[Vol37 | November 1950 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Lesson | Title: 774 Work Meeting: Choosing Appropriate Floor Coverings | Author: Christine H. Robinson]
(A  Course  for  Optional  Use  by  Wards  and  Branches  at  Work  Meeting) 
Lesson  5— Choosing  Appropriate  Floor  Coverings 
Chiistine  H.  Rohinson 
For  Tuesday,  February  13,  1951 
A  fundamental  part  of  successful 
,  home  decorating  has  to  do  with 
the  selection  of  suitable  floor  cov- 
erings. As  the  foundation  of  a 
room,  floors  often  set  the  pattern 
for  the  entire  decorative  scheme. 
Floor  coverings  help  to  determine 
the  general  spirit  and  personality  of 
a  room,  they  tie  in  its  color  scheme, 
and  do  much  to  help  establish  a 
suitable  foundation  upon  which  a 
room's  furnishings  can  be  harmon- 
iously dramatized.  The  right  floor 
covering  can  make  a  new  house 
look  homey,  friendly,  and  gracious.- 
Furthermore,  well-chosen  carpets 
can  make  an  old  home  take  on  a 
new  and  refreshing  appearance. 
In  general  floor  coverings  may  be 
classified  into  two  main  groups: 
first,  hard-surfaced  floor  materials, 
which  include  brick,  wood,  cement, 
linoleum,  plastic,  cork,  rubber,  as- 
phalt, or  ceramic  tile;  second^  soft 
floor  coverings,  which  are  rugs  or 
carpets,  made  of  wool,  cotton,  ray- 
on, nylon,  fiber,  or  flax. 
Hard-surfaced  floor  coverings  are 
both  practical  and  decorative. 
These  floors  are  usually  resistant  to 
sun,  grease,  and  water,  and  are  easy 
to  clean  and  maintain.  Composi- 
tion floors,  consisting  of  linoleum, 
cork,  plastic,  rubber,  and  asphalt 
tile,  are  available  in  an  increasing 
variety  of  unusual  colors  and  de- 
signs. With  a  little  imagination 
and  ingenuity,  many  interesting  ef- 
fects can  be  achieved  with  this  type 
of  floor  coverings.  Linoleum,  for 
example,  can  be  laid  with  an  infi- 
nite variety  of  decorative  designs 
and  insets.  The  various  types  of 
tile  can  be  worked  into  many  kinds 
of  stylized  blocks  and  patterns. 
Hard-surfaced  floor  coverings,  when 
thoughtfully  selected,  make  har- 
monious settings  for  modern,  tra- 
ditional, or  contemporary  type  dec- 
orating.

776  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— NOVEMBER  1950 
Soft  floor  coverings,  or  those  points  of  interest  in  a  room.  Scat- 
made  of  textiles,  provide,  of  course,  ter  rugs  can  be  used  to  tie  in  a 
the  more  luxurious  and  glamorous  room's  color  scheme,  to  call  atten- 
materials  for  floor  decorating.  tion  to  an  interesting  area  of  the 
Carpet  vi^eaving  is  one  of  man's  room,  to  dramatize  a  specific  piece 
oldest  cultural  attainments,  dating  of  furniture  or  group  setting,  or  to 
far  back  into  man's  early  history,  break  up  a  large  expanse  of  floor. 
We  read  of  the  extensive  use  of  When  used  with  a  furniture  group- 
woven  carpets  in  Biblical  days.  For  ing,  scatter  rugs  should  be  large 
example,  it  is  said  that  the  Queen  enough  to  tie  the  group  together, 
of  Sheba,  to  gain  favor,  laid  rare  and  should  never  be  placed  by  them- 
rugs  before  King  Solomon.  But  in  selves,  as  an  ''island  on  a  sea  of 
those  centuries  rugs  were  only  for  floor."  In  placing  scatter  rugs  on 
the  palaces  of  rich  rulers  and  kings,  the  floor,  one  rule  which  should  be 
Today,  thanks  to  the  power  looms,  remembered  is  to  be  sure  they  are 
the  improved  dyeing  methods,  new  set  parallel  to  the  walls  and  not 
materials,  and  artistry  in  design,  obliquely  or  at  distracting  angles, 
beautiful  and  durable  colors  and  In  choosing  the  type  of  carpet,  be 
styles  or  carpetm?  are  withm  the  ^  ^  4.  ^  .il  i  •  i. 
T_  £  1.1-  1.  •  -1.  £  sure  it  expresses  the  general  spirit 
reach  of  the  great  majority  of  i  /  r  ^i  r- 
1  ^^  character  or  the  room.  For  ex- 
In  the  selection  of  suitable  rugs  ^"^P^^'  ^'^^^^  ^"^  ^^S/^S^;  ^^*^ 
and  carpets,  both  size  and  type  are  ^^eir  rough  textures  and  coloring, 
essential  factors  to  keep  in  mind,  ^^d  charm  and  authenticity  to-  m- 
The  size  of  a  rug  has  an  important  formal  type  furnishings.  These  rugs 
bearing  upon  the  over-all  decorative  look  well  in  early  American,  pro- 
effect  of  the  room.  Wall-to-wall  vincial,  and  cottage  type  homes,  or 
carpeting  creates  a  restful,  unbrok-  they  may  be  used,  for  special  effect, 
en  hne  and  makes  a  small  room  ap-  in  breakfast  rooms,  bedrooms,  or 
pear  more  spacious.    If,  however,  a  halls. 
rug  is  preferred,  it  should  extend  Looped,  tufted,  and  shaggy  cot- 
to  within  six  or  twelve  inches  from  ton  rugs  come  in  a  variety  of  inter- 
the  wall.  An  under-sized  rug,  more  esting  new  types  and  colors.  Now 
than  any  other  single  element,  can  that  texture  is  so  important  in  dec- 
tend  to  make  a  room  look  smaller  orating,  these  cotton  rugs  are  both 
and  give  it  a  "cut-up"  appearance,  smart  and  in  high  style.  They 
If  a  rug  is  to  be  the  central  floor  have  the  further  advantage  of  easy 
covering,  it  should  be  of  sufficient  launderability.  With  a  family  of 
size  to  cover  the  floor  and  not  of  a  young  children,  these  rugs  are  par- 
"postage  stamp"  size.  Scatter  rugs,  ticularly  fine  as  they  combine  the 
however,  can  be  used  effectively  on  luxurious  beauty  of  delicate  pastels 
either  hard-surfaced  or  solid  color  or  bright  clear  colors  with  the  ad- 
carpeted  floors.  These  small  rugs  vantages  of  simple  upkeep  and  care, 
are  used  extensively  in  today's  dec-  Tufted  cotton  rugs  look  well  in  in- 
orating,  not  only  for  functional  formal  settings  or  modern  type 
purposes,    but    also    to    dramatize  rooms.

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
777 
Hooked  rugs  blend  well  with  co- 
lonial and  eighteenth  century  rooms. 
These  rugs,  due  to  their  warm  colors 
and  patterns,  create  a  friendly,  cosy 
feeling.  They  are  particularly  ef- 
fective when  used  as  scatter  rugs. 
Broadloom  carpeting  is  available 
in  a  variety  of  weaves  and  textures 
and  goes  well  with  modern,  tradi- 
tional, or  contemporary  decorating. 
In  choosing  any  rug  type,  inspect 
carefully  the  pile  of  the  rug  before 
you  make  a  purchase.  The  more 
closely  it  is  woven  and  and  the 
deeper  the  pile,  the  more  service  it 
will  give.  Also,  be  sure  the  pile  is 
made  of  pre-dyed  yarn  so  it  will 
not  fade  in  color.  Look  closely  at 
the  back  to  see  if  sizing  has  been 
used  to  give  an  impression  of  full 
body.  Well-woven  rugs  do  not 
need  extra  sizing. 
With  the  wide  variety  of  inter- 
esting floor  coverings  now  available, 
the  selection  of  the  right  color  is 
particularly  challenging.  A  well- 
known  guide  which  many  have  fol- 
lowed is  to  select  a  floor  covering  a 
bit  darker  than  the  walls,  which  in 
turn  are  darker  than  the  ceiling.  Al- 
though this  is  always  a  safe  and 
pleasing  way  to  decorate,  still  many 
dramatic  effects  can  be  produced 
by  violating  this  rule.  For  example, 
a  striking  effect  can  be  achieved  by 
having  the  floors  dominate  the 
room's  color  scheme.  This  can  be 
accomplished  by  using  very  dark, 
very  light,  very  bright,  or  bold  pat- 
terns on  the  floor.  If  such  a  strik- 
ing floor  covering  is  used,  every- 
thing else  in  the  room  should  be 
subdued.  When  a  patterned  floor 
covering  is  used,  plain-colored  walls 
and  solid-colored  fabrics  are  best. 
If,  on  the  other  hand,  a  room  has 
a    plain-colored    carpet,    or    other 
floor  covering,  pattern  can  and 
should  be  introduced  into  the  room 
in  either  wallpaper,  upholstery,  or 
draperies. 
In  any  case,  when  selecting  floor 
covering  colors,  harmonize  the  dec- 
orative effect  by  repeating  the  color 
of  the  carpeting  or  other  floor  cov- 
ering in  various  applications 
throughout  the  room.  For  example, 
if  the  floors  are  green,  a  green  slip- 
covered or  upholstered  sofa,  togeth- 
er with  a  green  lamp,  and  a  picture 
which  has  green  predominating,  will 
add  harmony  and  unity  to  a  room. 
In  choosing  colors  for  rugs  and 
carpets,  remember  that  light-col- 
ored and  textured  carpets  show  less 
traffic  wear,  lint,  and  dust.  Further- 
more, they  are  easily  adapted  to 
changes  in  room  color  schemes, 
they  blend  beautifully  with  either 
light  or  dark  colored  walls,  and  flat- 
ter today's  furniture  woods. 
To  summarize,  your  floor  cover- 
ings are  important.  They  should 
tie  in  and  dramatize  your  room's 
furnishings,  thus  helping  to  create 
an  attractive,  harmonious,  and  liv- 
able home. 
Discussion  Points 
1.  Discuss  how  to  lengthen  the  Hfe  of 
your  rugs  and  carpets  by  dependable  clean- 
ing methods.  Why  is  it  hard  on  scatter 
rugs  to  shake  or  beat  them?  How  is  it 
best  to  protect  rugs  from  moths? 
2.  Give  some  practical  hints  on  the  care 
and  protection  of  wood,  linoleum,  and 
asphalt  and  rubber  tile  floors. 
3.  Discuss  the  various  uses  of  scatter 
rugs  in  the  home. 
4.  Illustrate  how  floor  coverings  can  be 
used  to  tie  in  a  room's  color  scheme. 
5.  Why  is  it  usually  inadvisable  to  use 
patterned  fabrics  in  the  same  room  with 
patterned  floor  covering?