[Work Meeting: Choosing Appropriate Floor Coverings by Christine H. Robinson]

Work Meeting) Lesson 5—Choosing Appropriate Floor Coverings Christine H. Robinson For Tuesday, February 13, 1951 A fundamental part of successful.
Home decorating has to do with the selection of suitable floor coverings. As the foundation of a room, floors often set the pattern for the entire decorative scheme.
Floor coverings help to determine the general spirit and personality of a room, they tie in its color scheme, 'and do much to help establish a suitable foundation upon which a room's furnishings can be harmoniously dramatized. The right floor covering can make a new house look homey, friendly, and gracious. Furthermore, well-chosen carpets can make an old home take on a new and refreshing appearance. In general floor coverings may be classified into two main groups: first, hard-surfaced floor materials, which include brick, wood, cement, linoleum, plastic, cork, rubber, asphalt, or ceramic tile; second, soft floor coverings, which are rugs or carpets, made of wool, cotton, rayon, nylon, fiber, or flax. Hard-surfaced floor coverings are both practical and _ decorative.
These floors are usually resistant to sun, grease, and water, and are easy to clean and maintain.
Composition floors, consisting of linoleum, cork, plastic, rubber, and asphalt tile, are available in an increasing variety of unusual colors and designs.
With a little imagination and ingenuity, many interesting effects can be achieved with this type of floor coverings. Linoleum, for example, can be laid with an infnite variety of decorative designs and insets. 'The various types of tile can be worked into many kinds of stylized blocks and _ patterns. Hard-surfaced floor coverings, when thoughtfully selected, make harmonious settings for modern, traditional, or contemporary type decorating. 716
Soft floor coverings, or those made of textiles, provide, of course, the more luxurious and glamorous materials for floor decorating.
Carpet weaving is one of man's oldest cultural attainments, dating far back into man's early history. We read of the extensive use of woven carpets in Biblical days. For example, it is said that the Queen of Sheba, to gain favor, laid rare rugs before King Solomon. But in those centuries rugs were only for the palaces of rich rulers and kings. Today, thanks to the power looms, the improved dyeing methods, new materials, and artistry in design, beautiful and durable colors and styles of carpeting are within the reach of the great majority of homes.; In the selection of suitable rugs and carpets, both size and type are essential factors to keep in mind. The size of a rug has an important bearing upon the over-all decorative effect of the room. Wall-to-wall carpeting creates a restful, unbroken line and makes a small room appear more spacious. If, however, a rug is preferred, it should extend to within six or twelve inches from the wall. An under-sized rug, more than any other single element, can tend to make a room look smaller and give it a "cut-up" appearance. If a rug is to be the central floor covering, it should be of sufficient size to cover the floor and not of a "postage stamp" size.
Scatter rugs, however, can be used effectively on either hard-surfaced or solid color carpeted floors. 'These small rugs are used extensively in today's decorating, not only for functional purposes, but also to dramatize  points of interest in a room.
Scatter rugs can be used to tie in a room's color scheme, to call attention to an interesting area of the room, to dramatize a specific piece of furniture or group setting, or to break up a large expanse of floor.
When used with a furniture grouping, scatter rugs should be large enough to tie the group together, and should never be placed by themselves, as an "island on a sea of floor." In placing scatter rugs on the floor, one rule which should be remembered is to be sure they are set parallel to the walls and not obliquely or at distracting angles. In choosing the type of carpet, be sure it expresses the general spirit or character of the room. For example, braided and rag rugs, with their rough textures and coloring, add charm and authenticity to: informal type furnishings.
These rugs look well in early American, provincial, and cottage type homes, or they may be used, for special effect, in breakfast rooms, bedrooms, or halls. Looped, tufted, and shaggy cotton rugs come in a variety of interesting new types and colors. Now that texture is so important in decorating, these cotton rugs are both smart and in high style. 'They have the further advantage of easy launderability.
With a family of young children, these rugs are particularly fine as they combine the luxurious beauty of delicate pastels or bright clear colors with the advantages of simple upkeep and care.
Tufted cotton rugs look well in informal settings or modern type rooms.
LESSON DEPARTMENT Hooked rugs blend well with colonial and eighteenth century rooms.
These rugs, due to their warm colors and patterns, create a friendly, cosy feeling. 'They are particularly effective when used as scatter rugs.
Broadloom carpeting is available in a variety of weaves and textures and goes well with modern, traditional, or contemporary decorating. In choosing any rug type, inspect carefully the pile of the rug before you make a purchase. 'The more closely it is woven and the deeper the pile, the more service it will give. Also, be sure the pile is made of pre-dyed yarn so it will not fade in color.
Look closely at the back to see if sizing has been used to give an impression of full body. Well-woven rugs do not need extra sizing.
With the wide variety of interesting floor coverings now available, the selection of the right color is particularly challenging. A _ wellknown guide which many have followed is to select a floor covering a bit darker than the walls, which in turn are darker than the ceiling.
Although this is always a safe and pleasing way to decorate, still many dramatic effects can be produced by violating this rule. For example, a striking effect can be achieved by having the floors dominate the room's color scheme.
This can be accomplished by using very dark, very light, very bright, or bold patterns on the floor. If such a striking floor covering is used, everything else in the room should be subdued.
When a patterned floor covering is used, plain-colored walls and solid-colored fabrics are best. If, on the other hand, a room has a plain-colored carpet, or other ering = in 777 floor covering, pattern can and should be introduced into the room in either wallpaper, upholstery, or draperies. In any case, when selecting floor covering colors, harmonize the decorative effect by repeating the color of the carpeting or other floor covvarious _ applications throughout the room. For example, if the floors are green, a green slipcovered or upholstered sofa, together with a green lamp, and a picture which has green predominating, will add harmony and unity to a room. In choosing colors for rugs and carpets, remember that light-colored and textured carpets show less traffic wear, lint, and dust. Furthermore, they are easily adapted to changes in room color schemes, they blend beautifully with either light or dark colored walls, and flatter today's furniture woods. To summarize, your floor coverings are important. 'They should tie in and dramatize your room's furnishings, thus helping to create an attractive, harmonious, and livable home. Discussion Points 1.
Discuss how to lengthen the life of your rugs and carpets by dependable cleaning methods. Why is it hard on scatter tugs to shake or beat them? How is it best to protect rugs from moths? 2.
Give some practical hints on the care and protection of wood, linoleum, and asphalt and rubber tile floors. 3.
Discuss the various uses of scatter rugs in the home. 4.
Illustrate how floor coverings can be used to tie in a room's color scheme. 5. Why is it usually inadvisable to use patterned fabrics in the same room with patterned floor covering? 

778  of tterature—The