EDITORIAL 191 Helping the Primary Association The Primary Association touches the lives of practically 100,000 children. Through the Welfare Department of the Relief Society, children's lives are seen and approached from many angles; thus a vast amount of material is accumulated in relation to children which is helpful information for any group interested in children, consequently it works out that a Welfare Department like that connected with the Relief Society carries on a good deal of research work, while an organization such as the 'Primary Association takes the material furnished by the Social Worker and puts it into practical working. The Social Worker meets the world with the challenge that every child is entitled to a normal home life, which means, to quote one of our well known workers, "That the child should be physically sound, and that he should have apportunity for education, for recreation, for vocational preparation for life, and for moral and spiritual development." The Primary worker is interested in all these phases of child development and regards the Primary organization as one of the laboratories where the Relief Society worker may see fulfilment. As evidence of what we have said in relation to the Primary seeking to support the needs of the normal life of the child, we quote Badge Test No. 1 from their excellent little book called Trail-Builders: 1. Name some of the characteristics of the pine tree. 2. Give the meaning of the Trail-builder's salute. 3. Recite two scripture passages. 4. Draw or cut free-hand the 'Trail-builder's emblem. 5. What should a Trail-builder do when the "Star Spangled Banner" or "America" is played? 6. Give reasons why you should keep nails clean and cut; teeth clean, and breathe through the nose. 7. Black a pair of shoes and fold your clothes neatly. 8. Give the names of your Primary president, your bishop, your stake president, the president of the Church. 9. Give the names of six domestic animals and state the purpose for which they are used. 10. Produce a satisfactory article or toy made by yourself in woodcraft. 11. Know how to play "Johnny Ride the Pony," or "Skin the Goat." 12. Run a fifty yard dash in eight seconds. 13. Be able to chin or draw yourself up in good form. 14. Turn a cart wheel. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE _ Note: Require 12 of the 14. This test entitles the Trailbuilder to a badge. A glance at this test will go to prove that the Primary Association is seeking the all-round development of the child or, as the Primary worker sometimes puts it, the development of the head, the heart, and the hand of the child. The mothers of these children are in many instances members of the Relief Society, and they are not infrequently. Officers and teachers in the Primary Association. The assigned activity card of the Trail-builder must be approved and signed by teachers or parents, thus it becomes very clear that parents do know a good deal about the work of the Primary Association, and that they must recognize that its work harmonizes with the lessons on the physical problems of childhood, that they are studying, particularly this year, and other studies of past years that relate to child-care and the proper rearing and developing of children. No cry is more insistent than the cry of the philosopher, the statesman, and the teacher, that the future of this great world depends on the children who will be the future citizens of the world. Perhaps never before in the history of the world have children and youths as frequently turned to their forefathers and said, in substance, we are crippled spiritually by our environment; but we are not responsible for our environment which is slowly dragging us down. Surely parents and teachers and promoters of child-welfare in all the phases of life are looking confidently forward to the time when children, tracing the history of the past, will rise and call blessed those who have gone before them, because of the advantages of their birth and the wonder of their environment. This is one of the laudable accomplishments that both the Primary Association and Relief Society look forward to ?surely they can cooperate for so noble an end.