Illustrating and Story-Writing for Children By C. Nelson White Perusing the innumerable weekly and monthly magazines professing to be written for, and covering the tastes of all the members of the average American family, one cannot help but notice the paucity of material available for the youngest minds. Now and then a woman's magazine makes a half-: hearted attempt of devoting a page a month to the interests of child readers, but more often this attempt dies again after a few months of the most precarious existence. More "necessary" articles, more "pressing matters" always seem to crowd it out of the paper sooner or later. Altogether too often children are left to get what amusement they may out of the pages of the many "colored supplements" and "comic strips" of the daily papers 'This is a really deplorable condition, for their vulgar jests and degrading situations certainly exercise no good influence over the child mind. The average intelligent adult might dismiss these things with a shrug, and think no'more about them, but for the child mind, soft and pliable and plastic, many of these situations leave a deeper impression than parents realize. When analyzed for their moral value, or lack of it, rowdyism and thieving, cruelty and deceit, are but a few of the more common subjects for the majority of these strips, which seem to run the gamut of ail the more debasing things in life. Therefore the pressing need of today is an attempt to give the children an education along worthwhile lines, served in such a manner as to be both wholesome and entertaining. Good illustrations are quite a deciding factor in arousing the interests of children. One of the most outstanding characteristics of the child reader, and this applies to the well grown youngster, too, is his hunger for illustrations. This is not indicative of lack of intelligence, on the contrary it is a grasp for something to develop his experience. Dealers in books for children testify, that not only do children select books by, appraising their interest through the pictures, but that adults will run through the illustrations, decide whether the story "looks interesting," and thus determine the purchase. On the shoulders of the illustrator, therefore, lies much of the burden for the acquisition of a book. Good pictures mean joy to the child heart, and many a worthwhile book has been enhanced a hundredfold through the artist's gift of interpreting the thoughts of the text. The ILLUSTRATING AND STORY WRITING 187 mission of joy has never been fully preached, but we know that joy works toward physical health, mental brightness, and moral strength. Joy is the most important mission in art for children. 'Through the pictures the little ones march right into the story. Pictures cultivate their imagination. Like an older brother or sister an illustration takes the youngsters by the hand and leads them into a land where delightiul surprises greet them at every turn. It takes the children into a realm of vicarious living more elemental and more fancy-free than the perfected dramas of sophisticated adults. It takes the objects, which little boys and girls know vividly, and personifies them so that instinctive hopes and fears may play, and be disciplined. Cooperation and unity in text and picture?when they are artful for adaptations of life and form?grip the imagination of little folks. 'The question arises, "Must we not cultivate the child's imagination?" Truly, the child?limited in experience?loves to come in contact with the things he knows about, and yet nothing more quickly brings a smile than a surprise. The most important thing, therefore, in children's stories is perhaps the artful blending of the more common, everyday happenings with education, elevating thoughts, and to do it in such a manner that the impression lasts. The desire for the unknown, that ever present curiosity, is the charm of childhood that creates many delightful hours, and pictures and stories of the right type have a wonderful mission to perform. With such friends the children journey to Fairyland; by some they are introduced to heroes who have fought and served for what is right and beautiful; some take them to strange lands, and show them how life goes with other peoples; some carry the children's hearts along with their inspired hearts into sacred places, and the children grow great in their own thoughts after these journeys. Children's emotions are easily aroused, and on the shoulders of authors and artists lies the responsibility of guiding them into the right channels. In every reaction which the child has for distress or humor in the tale, he deposits another layer of vicarious experience, which sets his character more firmly into the mold of right or wrong attitude. Every sympathy, every aversion helps to set the impulsive currents of his life, and to give direction to his personality. We cannot omit the adventures of the Land of Make-Believe from our educational program. They are too well adapted to restless, active, and unrestrained life of childhood. "Why special training in story-writing for children?" is a question frequently asked. Behind the inquiry may lie either of two prevalent views. One theory holds that any 
 person, though he lack the training, experience, and skill! Necessary for adult writing, is able to write for children; the other, that anyone who knows enough for adults can, therefore, with equal ease, write for children?and the same viewpoints are accepted when it comes to illustrations. The result of the two theories appear in the output of juvenile literature. Those who do not know enough to write for adults produce a good deal of literature for children. Those who can write for adults, with some notable exceptions, remain in that field through lack of interest in juvenile work, or through realization of their inability to handle it. Writing for children then becomes a problem in itself which cannot be solved by made-over adult technique. A child is not an adult undersized physically and mentally. He is a complete human being who, on his way from childhood to maturity, has certain special needs different from those of an adult. These needs reach over into his reading as elsewhere, and only the person who understands them can make adequate response. Consciously or unconsciously a child increases his experience every time he opens a book or a magazine. He realizes, in an indefinite sort of way, that he can touch the world in only one spot at a time, and in his eagerness, to find out more about it the turns to reading. This may end in day-dreams and the acquisition of a set of false standards, or it may have some definite, lasting value. Since this is true, the book which gives the child experience outside of his personal limits should be carefully scrutinized in the making and in the using. The answer then to the inquiry about the necessity for special technique in writing for children lies in the psychology of the children themselves. To meet them on their own ground we must approach them as equals, not as adults writing down to them. We must know their kind of dialogue, their demands upon action and climax, their sorts of humor, pathos, sentiment. We must know how to capture their interest and how to hold it. Above all, we must know their possibilities and use them. Their limitations have long been the basis of their fiction. What a wonderful mission for adults with the true spirit of childhood in their hearts. They alone can arouse the interest of the young, and lead them to an appreciation of all that is true and beautiful, away from the truly deplorable avalanche of bad, degrading reading, far too easily accessible for them, towards an appreciation for one's inner self, and to a realization that one's mind-and-heart is, and always should be, a place sacred to clean thoughts and clean deeds? a true "Temple of God." THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto?Charity Never Faileth  Editor -  Clarissa Smith WILLIAMS Associate Editor. -.. - - Alice Louise REYNOLDS Assistant Manager - - Amy Brown Lyman Room 28, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. XIII APRIL, '1926 ' No. 4 EDITORIAL The Children's Hour Miss Frances Jenkins, who was one of the special lecturers at the U. E. A. Last season, said in substance that the well known phrase in the Declaration of Independence stating, we hold these truths to be self evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain inalineable rights, that among these are life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness, meant men in the days of 'Abraham Lincoln. Since the passage of the 19th amendment, it has included women, and now it is slowly but surely extending to children. Neither in home nor in school are children subjected to the severe discipline that they once faced. In school, children are not compelled as much as formerly to sit quietly without ever daring to move unless with the permission of the teacher. They have their work to do and if their work requires that they shall leave their seats and go to a sand-tabl?e or go to a book case and look for material in books or magazines, they are at liberty to do it. If perchance, they want to cook or mold or paint, they may 
 talk about where they can find the material and the most convenient place to do it. A school-room that is deathly silent is not regarded as the best type of school-room today; but rather the school-room where one hears the hum of business on every hand.: What is true of the school in the matter of severe discipline, is also true of the home. Children are the little people of the home, and they are not, as a rule, kept under the strict discipline of former days. The adage that children should be seen and not heard is not so popular as it once was. Parents realize that too much suppression may result in overly timid children and overly timid adults. Recently, the state of Utah has been visited by Mr. Louis Untermeyer, the poet, who says that his best book, from his point of view, was written as a result of an interview he had with a group of children in the kindergarten. They told him that the stories in the Mother Goose Rhymes were good, but ought to be written over and brought up to date, and so Mr. Untermeyer set about to do this work.