C. NELSON WHITE
C. Nelson White
We are introducing to our readers, in this issue, Mr. C. Nelson White, who is the illustrator of The Children's Friend, the official organ of the Primary Association. Few things delight children more than a picture book or magazine that is well illustrated, consequently the man who can enter children's lives with interesting colorful pictures has an open sesame to their love. It is a great pleasure to introduce Mr. White to the members of our organization and to publish from him an article that has to do with making pictures for children. Mr. C. Nelson White was born in Odder, Denmark, July 21, 1893. Although his father was of the working class, he gave his son a good education which included a college course. Neither the parents nor the boy knew that he was gifted as an illustrator until he was 13 years of age, when an old house painter came to live in a little cottage at the back of his father's home. In order to qualify, this painter had been required to go to Switzerland and other countries and make sketches. The moment the boy saw


the painter making sketches, his imagination was set on fire, and he also wanted to paint. The old man noting the eagerness of the boy gave him his cast-off brushes and prevailed on his father to buy him some paints. His first drawing, a pen-and-ink sketch was made at the age of 13. It was published in a little eight-page magazine in Denmark called The Children's Friend. When the boy mailed it he wondered if he would get half a crown for it, an amount equivalent to about ten cents, consequently he was very much surprised when his purchasers sent him ten crowns the equivalent of $2.50 in American money. While in school he had a teacher who recognized that he was gifted, and for that reason allowed him to draw whatever he wished to draw.
NELSON WHITE'S FIRST SKETCH
This teacher also gave evidence of an abundance of common sense by permitting the boy to draw during the music period as he did not care for music, but was very keen about drawing. Meantime he was obtaining his education which included five years of English for six days a week. A few months before quitting school he accepted a position with the publishing house that put out The Children's Friend and while his work was not confined to any special branch he did make humorous drawings for children.
While a lad in his teens, he came in contact with the "Mor-
NELSON WHITE 185
mon" elders who taught him the gospel of Jesus Christ. On his 19th birthday anniversary, in 1912, he was baptized by Elder George Sanders, of Salt Lake City. Elder Martin Christopherson, now president of the Norwegian mission, was one of the elders who assisted him in learning the gospel. His parents were so greatly opposed to his joining the Church that they forced him to leave home. He left his native land in the month of June, 1914, arriving in Salt Lake City, just prior to the outbreak of the world war. In 1915, he married Anna Jenson. They have one son, Raymond, who was taken to Denmark last summer and baptized in the place where his father was baptized. When Mr. White first reached the state he was an advertising artist for the Giles Engraving Company. Today he is one of the partners of the Howell-White Advertising Illustrators Company. There are four persons conducting the work of this firm at the present time, which is the leading firm of its type in Salt Lake City. For four years Mr. White has been the illustrator for The Children's Friend. He is responsible for the attractive colorful pages of the magazine. Yet his talent is not confined to our Utah publications; for, since 1923 he has been doing work for the Ladies' Home Journal. In 1924 he made humorous drawings for the Saturday Evening Post. McCall's Magazine solicited him as a regular staff artist, but his trip to Denmark in the summer of 1925 interfered with his accepting the position. However, he does special work for both the Ladies Home Journal and McCall's Magazine at the present time. He has had many letters commenting on the excellence of his work. Not long ago a wealthy man living in Rhode Island, sent an order for two drawings to be placed in his private art collection.
A Baby's Hand
A rosy dawn's glow on the pure white of snow,? What lovelier sight in the land? Wouldst see it? Quite simple; for, caught with a dimple, 'Tis found in a baby's soft hand.
Firm trust, whate'er fall, in the goodness of all, An undying faith by love fanned,? These virtues so rare, you always find there, Embodied in baby's small hand.
The riches of kings, careers of all things,? Fulfilment of all God has planned; Our own ship of State;?yes, the world and its fate May be held in a baby's wee hand. ?Jean Jarvis Berbet.