NINETEENTH WARD ANNIVERSARY.
	The 17th day of March will ever be a
memorable one in the history of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. More
especially so to the sisters, because on this
date fifty seven years ago President Joseph
Smith organized this great Relief
Society, which has become so important a
factor through all the Stakes and branches
of the Church, in relieving the wants of the
poor and needy, and in administering com-
fort and solace to the sick and afflicted.
	With the annual recurrence of the day
will return the commemoration of the or-
ganization by the gathering of the ladies in
the various places of worship, to celebrate in
the most fitting manner the inception of the
first, if not the greatest auxiliary help in
the government of the Church. What en-

[Column 3]
thusiastic joy must fill the soul of every
true and zealous woman in the Church
when she contemplates that from one small
society organized in Nauvoo, March 17th,
1842, there has grown to be one or more in
every ward of forty Stakes of Zion, and in
nearly every branch of the Church that has
been organized. It can truthfully be said
that the Relief Society development cor-
responds with the growth of the Church as
a whole, or with any of its institutions,
and has become a potent factor for good
wherever the Church has an organization.
	This day, March 17, 1899, we are happy
to report, was fittingly observed by the Re-
lief Society of the 19th ward. The sisters
of the ward were in attendance, and in ad-
dition we were favored with the presence of
Apostle M. F. Cowley, Bishop Barton and
counselors, and Brother Wm. Neal and
wife, who have recently returned from a
mission to Germany.
	After the usual opening exercises Presi-
dent Ann E. Neal made appropriate re-
marks. Sister Rebecca Asper gave a his-
torical sketch of the organization of the first
Relief Society with Emma Smith, wife of
the Prophet Joseph, as the president. Sis-
ter Hollings gave a recitation entitled “The
King’s Dream.” Sister Prescott read an
essay, giving many choice incidents in the
life of the Prophet Joseph Smith. Sister
Hattie B. Harker gave a select reading en-
titled “Woman’s Mission.” Sister Phelps,
the oldest member of the Relief Society in
the ward, spoke of the grand mission given
the sisters to perform, and the necessity of
having the Spirit of God to assist them.
Sister Lucy B. Young then related in a
pleasing manner her visit to Washington to
attend the National Council of Women.
	Apostle Cowley then addressed the
society, expressing his pleasure at being
present and his unreserved sympathy for
the work and mission assigned to the wo-
men of this Church. He stated that no
class of women in the world moved in so
broad a sphere, and were accomplishing
such a grand mission as were the women of
this Church. Their condition was such as
to make it imperative upon them to under-
stand the principles of the Gospel. Oppor-
tunity was now afforded under certain cir-
cumstances for some of our sisters to per-
form missions abroad. Several had done
so with good effect, their influence being
strongly felt in the removal of prejudice,
and enlightening the minds of both men
and women respecting our religion and social
characteristics. He commended the faith
of the sisters in their efforts to defeat the
anti-Roberts resolution at Washington, and
said that as the effectual, fervent prayer of a
righteous man availeth much, so would the
effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous wo-
man ascend to God. Brother Cowley bore
his testimony to the good work being ac-
complished by the sisters, and invoked the
blessing of the Lord upon them.
	Bishop Barton made some very timely
and fatherly remarks, expressing his
pleasure at being present. He felt to give
the sisters of the ward his hearty support.
	Benediction was pronounced by President
Wm. Neal, after which refreshments were
served and pleasant, social conversation
was engaged in by all present.
