READ AT THE U. W. P. C., MARCH 31, 1899.
	The final relations to which all knowledge
tends, are those connecting intelligent man
with the universe of which he forms a part.
	Knowledge progresses, not only by ex-
tension, but also by invention, viz.—As
the fields extend, so also knowledge be-
comes more definite, more significant, more
useful, and in every way closer to the intel-
ligent being.
	Knowledge begins with the remote, and
proceeds toward the near.
	The stars were studies, and first astrol-
ogy, and afterwards astronomy came. The
remoter lands were explored, and geography
arose. Gems and rare earth were examined,
and chemistry developed. Plants were in-
vestigated, then botany came. Animals
were subjected to research, and zoology
became a science.
	Mountains, mines, rocks and soil were
studied, and geology was organized. Man-
kind was investigated in their various as-
pects, and anthropology came into being.
	The organizations and definition of
science yields a definite basis for scientific
classification of the races and people of the
earth, including the tribes of America.
	The sixteenth annual report of the
Bureau of American Ethnology is most im-
portant, and the general work has now
reached such a stage as to afford trustworthy
standpoints for future work in Ethnic
classifications.
	The creation and migration traditions of
the Navajoes in regard to chronological
sequence and events, and the advent of the
ancestors of the Navajoes in the San Juan
valley about the end of the 15th century,
is thereby established.
	The original Navajoes were probably
cliff dwellers, and the tribes appear not to
be a ramification of the Apaches, as hither-
to supposed.
	It is probable that the Apaches were al-
ready in the San Juan region at the advent
of the Navajoes.
	By reason of limited numbers the Apach-
es and Navajoes did not molest the Pueblo
tribe prior to the 17th century. Perhaps
the most important lesson to learn through
researches concerning the American tribes,
is that primitive people reflect their environ-
ments on food yielding coasts. The
families and tribes are organized for fishing.
In the forest they are organized for chase or
for war. On the prairie they are organized
for agriculture, or for the hunting of herbi-
vores.
	In the valley and arid regions they are
organized for agriculture and defence.
Thus, you see, the social organization is
bound up with the industries, and with the
social condition.
	Mr. Minderhoff’s paper on the Cliff
Dwellers in the Canyon De Chelly, (pro-
nounced De Chaye) gives an account of the
ruins of a district but little known. He
says that it is certain that the Cliff Dwellers
migrated under the stress of predation by
neighboring tribes, into this district by
which they were fain to gather for suste-
nance and mutual protection on easily de-
fended sites, near the moist and bottom-
lands on which their crops were raised.
	His observation demonstrates that the
Cliff Dwellers were nothing more than
Indians, sometimes not related among one
another by consanguinity, nor institutional
affinity; yet related in most of their char-


[Column 1]
acteristics, not only among each other, but
with the neighboring tribes, and through
these with all the aborigines of the conti-
nent.
	The ancient village of the Canyon De
Chelly, either on the cliff, Mesa or bottom-
lands, are known as the Aztec ruins. The
Estufas of the Cliff Dwellers correspond with
the medicine lodges of the Indians of the
plains.
	It is claimed that most of the American
tribes had advanced to the stage of graphic
symbolism, and thus were on the threshold
of writing when the new world was dis-
covered by Columbus. The art was rudi-
mentary and limited to crude pictography,
which was painted or sculptured on cliff
faces, boulders, the walls of caverns and
other rocks and surfaces, and even frequent-
ly on trees, skins, barks and various artific-
lal objects. These crude autographic rec-
ords of the Indians of the United States
have been studied with care, and many of
them have been illustrated and interpreted.
	Among certain Mexican tribes autograph-
ic records were in use, and were painted
and sculptured on stone and moulded in
stucco.
	Among the Kiowa, as among other plain
Indians, and indeed all the aboriginal
tribes, there is a wide spread symbolism by
which the arts are influenced and guided,
under this symbolism, hence shields, ar-
rows, pipes, musical instruments, robes and
other articles are inscribed, painted, or
otherwise marked with designs.
	In many cases these designs possess dec-
orative value, and they are commonly sup-
posed to be used simply for decoration; but
study of the Indian character and motive
show that the design is not primarily dec-
orative, but symbolic and fraught with
meaning to those who understand symbol-
ism.
	Among the Kiowa Indians it is differen-
tiated into a crude, yet highly significant
system of heraldry, which throws much
light upon the mediaeval heraldy of
Europe.
	The Navajoes do not make any kind of
pottery, they confine themselves to blankets 
and bead work, and exchange these with
other tribes for pottery.
	Right here let me say a few words for
our cliff dwellings in Utah. I could find no
Ethnological report on it, and rely upon
the cattlemen of that section of country for
my information.
	The Ethnologist could scarcely find a
better field in which to labor with surer re-
sults than Grand and San Juan Counties,
Utah.
	The whole region bounded by the Grand
River on the north, the San Juan River on
the south, the Colorado on the north and
west, has at some period been inhabited by
a prehistoric race which in common par-
lance has been termed the Cliff Dwellers.
	You cannot travel very many miles in
this region without finding relics from
which certain conclusions may be drawn.
	The aridity of this region is, and for
centuries has been such, that certain relics
are found in a state of preservation that
would lead to the conclusion that they were
of recent manufacture, yet no tribes of
Indians have any traditions of these people.
	Immediately west of Moab the mountains
rise abruptly to an elevation of 1,500 or
2,000 feet, the top constituting what is
termed a rim rock, and back of this is a
Mesa or plateau, situated on this plateau
and looking down the valley, is an old fort.

[Column 2]
	This fort is constructed on flat rock and
the old walls, artificially built, are still in a
comparatively good condition. The en-
trance to this fort is through a hole cut
through the solid rock this hole is not
over twenty inches wide.
	In the interior are found many pieces of
broken pottery with painting on them, the
paint being burned into the pottery, the
colors being perfectly bright.
	In the western part of San Juan County
is a place called “Beef Basin” by cattlemen.
The entrance to this basin is by an old
Indian trail. The basin extends down to
the Colorado River, and surrounding it are
high mountains with rim rock and many
little canyons extending down into the
basin. All the way around this basin, a
distance of many miles, are evidences of its
having been inhabited by Cliff Dwellers.
	Their houses may be found up among
the cliffs, in the condition they left them,
This place has been explored but very
little.
	Mr. Ed Turner, of Indian Creek, is the
only person who has attempted any extend-
ed exploration, and he has been well re-
warded.
	In one of the houses he found a jar and a
blanket which had been manufactured from
cotton, and in the jar was also found loose
cotton. The blanket and cotton were in a
perfect state of preservation. This blanket
is now owned by Mr. Wheeler, cashier of a
bank in Telluride, Colo. It is highly colored
and figured, and bears a resemblance to the
Navajoe blankets now manufactured.
	Mr. V. P. Martin, who represented San
Juan County two years ago in the Legis-
lature, has many relics taken from these
houses. Stone hammers with withes
twisted around them for handles; flinty
stones, shaped like a hatchet, evidently
used for skinning knives; mocassins made
from the fibre of the soap weed; several
skeins of this fibre highly colored and
twisted together like woolen yarn; pieces
of keel showing that they had been used
for drawing the many designs on the face
of the cliffs; a piece of cloth resembling
linolium a quarter of an inch thick, tightly
woven and saturated with some kind of
pitch; a bunch of needles resembling needles
from the pinion pine trees, tightly bound
together and evidently used as a comb,
quantities of black human hair being found
at the end of the needles, or comb.
	Mr. Turner has a jar which he obtained
from one of these houses, that will hold
some three or four gallons. It is in the
shape of a keg or barrel, and is decorated
with bright colors which have been burned
in the pottery. 
	He also has a ladle or dipper that will
hold about a quart, which is highly decora-
ted. Many of the houses on the sides of
the cliffs are inaccessible, but the old ladders
that were used by the Cliff Dwellers are
still to be seen.
	A man by the name of Hammond, who
formerly lived at Kane Springs, San Juan
County, had a wicker basket made of
withes bound together with fibres of the
soap weed, and in this basket, fastened to
it with fibres, was the skeleton of a child,
which at its death was probably a year old.
	Down on the San Juan River many
skeletons have been unearthed and shipped
to Eastern colleges, some were exhibited at
the World’s Fair, in almost every instance
the remains were mummified, and some of
them indicated a stature of nearly six feet.
On some skeletons was hair light in color.

[Column 3]
	There are many of these houses around
Beef Basin that have never been explored,
and there is quite a field for those who are
interested in pictographic records of the
Indians.
	Although the Canyon De Chelly is one
of the best cliff ruin regions of the United
States, it is not easily accessible and is
practically unknown.
	In 1846-49 vague rumors were current of
wonderful cities built in the cliffs, but the
positions of the canyons in the heart of the
Navajoe country prevented exploration.
	In 1849 an expedition was sent out under
the command of Col. Washington, then
Governor of New Mexico. They camped
in Chin Lee Valley, and Lieut. Simpson
made a trip into the canyon about seven
miles; and the ruin he described is known
now as Cassa Blanca. Simpson’s descrip- 
tion, although brief, formed the basis of all
accounts for thirty years. None of the
Hayden exploration party penetrated the
canyon, only W. H. Jackson. He de-
scribes some of the ruins in the Rio De
Chelly, in the lower Chin Lee Valley, thus:
	“The strange newly discovered cities of
the southwest, the picturesque piles of
masonry of an age unknown to tradition,
these ruins marked an area among anti-
quarians. The mysterious mound builders
fade into comparative insignificance before
the grander and more ancient Cliff 
Dwellers, whose castles lift their towers 
amid the sands of Arizona, and crown the
terrace slopes of the Rio Mancas and the
Hovenweap.”
	Of the Chaco ruins he says, in size and
grandeur of conception they equal any of
the present buildings of the United States,
if we except the Capitol at Washington,
and may without discredit be compared to
the Pantheon and the Colliseum of the old
world.
	The plateau of the country is extremely
rugged, and the topographical obstacles to
travel are greater than in many wild
mountain regions.
	It is a country of cliffs and canyons, of 
considerable magnitude; and although the
strata appears to be horizontal they are 
slightly tilted. Each formation appears as
a terrace bounded on one side by a de-
scending cliff carved out of the edges of its
own strata and on the other by ascending 
cliffs carved out of the strata which over-
lie it. The most conspicuous formaton of
the whole region is a mass of red sand-
stone, out of which has been carved the
most striking and typical features, which 
will be a subject of wonder and delight to
coming generations. The most superb
canyons are the Canyon De Chelly and the
Del Maerto.
	The lofty pinnacles and towers of the San 
Juan County, the finest walls of the great
upper chasm of the Colorado, are the verti-
cal edges of this red sand stone.
	The mouth of the Canyon De Chelly is
sixty miles south of the Utah boundary,and
twenty-five miles west of that of Mexico.
	At the junction of the Canyon De Chelly
and Monument Canyon is a beautiful rock
needle or pinnacle, standing out from the
cliffs, not more than a hundred and sixty-
five feet on the ground and its height is
eight hundred feet. It has been named in
conjunction with somewhat similar pinna-
cles, “The Captains.”
	One of the characteristic features of the
canyon at the present day is the immense
number of peach trees; in one instance
there is a clump of peach trees, perhaps as


[Column 1]
many as a thousand in an orchard. When
the fruit ripens the Navajoes flock to the
place like an immense flock of vultures.
	The buildings in this canyon consist of a
conglomeration of small cells, all the houses
are two stories high and the lower story
is entered from the roof. The Estufa is
generally circular in form, the ground
plans of some ruins in the Del Maerto
show that at one time it covered consider-
able land, there remain sixteen rooms on
the ground, in addition to two Estufas.
	Another where the walls are still stand-
ing to a height of three stories, this shows
about twenty rooms, with three Estufas.
	In the center of the ruins are the remains
of a very large Estufa, over thirty six feet
in diameter.
	The largest ruin in the Canyon Del
Maerto is situated at the base of the cliff
and is known to the Navajoes as Pak-ashi-
izine, or the "Blue Cow." The name was
derived from a pictograph of a cow done in
blue paint on the walls back of the ruin.
	There appears plainly about forty rooms
with four Estufas, and traces of forty or
fifty more rooms. One of the most im-
portant ruins in this canyon is called Cassa
Blanca. It is also known under the equiva-
lent Navajoes term, Kini-na-e-kai–or
White House.
	It is evident that some of the houses were
four stories high against the cliffs. The
lower ruin covers an area of a hundred and
fifty by fifty feet. About forty five rooms
on the ground in addition to a circular
Estufa. It is probable that the lower ruins
comprised sixty rooms.
	Roof debris is especially abundant, con-
sisting of small twigs, lumps of clay, with
ends or beams projecting here or there.
All the heavy walls occur either about the
Estufa or east of it.
	Another large ruin is known as the
"Mummy Cave."
	Near the mouth of the canyon where
there is not much tillable land there are
few ruins, but where good land is plenty,
there is an abundance of ruins. Between
the mouth of the Canyon De Chelly and
the junction of Monument Canyon, only
thirteen miles, there are seventy one ruins.
	It is impossible for a writer to convey in
plain black and white any idea of the
beauties of this country. It is a land re-
quiring the painter to exhibit its beauties.
	One of the interesting peculiarities is
where a ruined house is dug into, and all
the skeletons of its occupants are found in
one room, and always near a fireplace.
	The postures of these skeletons are as
various as it is possible for the human body
to assume. They are found kneeling
sometimes with their hands locked over
their heads, stretched out straight and on
their sides, and with their children in their
arms. Hardly any two alike in the same
house.
	Mr. Davis of the Corralitos company be-
lieved that they were cut off by a violent
earthquake, and that this great cataclysm
caught them at their evening meal, as that
was the only occasion where they all
gathered together at home.
	Another interesting feature is the storage
and burial cists. Facilities for the storage
of grain and other produce are essential in
the system of agriculture, and the storage
cists are found everywhere. It is not
meant that when the crops were harvested
they were placed in these cists, and kept
there until used for the harvest was as a
rule permanently stored in the home vil-

[Column 2]
lage, and the cists were used only for
temporary storage.
	The number of burial cists in the canyon
is remarkable. There are hundreds of
them, and the remains of the Navajoe dead
may still be seen. The burial cists are
usually built in the corner or against a
wall of the cliff house. These structures are
dome shaped. As a whole the Navajoe
cists are much more difficult of access than
the ruins, and some of them are really
inaccessible.
	The Kiva or Estufa, as they formerly
were called, are sacred chambers in which
the civil and religious affairs are transacted.
And they also form a place of resort or
club for the men.
	The entrance to the Estufa is invariably
from the roof by a ladder. This appears to
be a ceremonial requirement. The greatest
care seems to be the construction and finish
of the estufa. They are used principally in
the fall and winter when the farming sea-
son is over, then the ceremonies and dances
take place.
	Most of the Estufas have a bench around
them about a foot wide and two feet high.
The most elaborate Estufa is found in the
Mummy Cave ruin. Bands with points
occur sometimes on the walls, which are
treated as a picturegraph, about fifteen
miles from Moab, there are many rocks
covered with writings similar to these.
	When you ask a Navajoe what became
of the people who built the houses in Can-
yon De Chelly, he will say, "A great wind
arose and swept them all away," which is
equivalent to saying that they do not know.
	To understand the ruins so profusely
scattered in the Pueblo country, we must
have some knowledge of the condition un-
der which the inhabitants lived. There is
no warrant whatever for the old assumption
that the Cliff Dwellers, were a separate race,
and the cliff dwellers must be regarded as
only a phase of Pueblo architecture.
	The peculiarities of Pueblo architecture is
that its results were always retained by em-
ployment of the material at hand. Noth-
ing is transported to any distance. The
geological and topographical environments
of the Canyon De Chelly was favored by
the Cliff Dwellers, as it was a good place
for the practise of horticulture. The sites
are all selected with a view to an outlook
over some adjacent area of cultivatable
land. The same sites are used today by
the Navajoes in connection with farming
operations.
	The cliffs in the Canyon De Chelly, the
Cavate lodges of New Mexico and Arizona,
the watch tower of San Juan, the
summer villages attached to many of the
Pebelos, are all functionally analogous, and
all are the outgrowth of certain industrial
requirements. And the example of a
primitive people who entered the region
with preconceived and fully developed
ideas, but who left it before those ideas
were fully brought into accord with the
environments, but not before they were
influenced by it.
