AT CHESTERFIELD.

	In commemoration of the 57th anniver-
sary of the first organization of the Relief
Society by the Prophet Joseph Smith, the
members of the Chesterfield and Hatch
wards met conjointly in the Chesterfield
meeting house at 10 a. m. Everything
was arranged by 12 a. m., and all sat down 
to a bounteous dinner.

[Column 2]
	After all partook of the good things with
which the Lord has blessed us a recess was
taken, and at 2 p. m. meeting was called to
order by President Columbia F. Loveland
of the Chesterfield Relief Society. Opened
by singing “Our God we raise to Thee.”
Prayer by Wm. T. Higginson. Choir
sang “Do what is right.”
	Among the Relief Society ward officers
on the stand there were Prest. Mary A.
Call and First Counselor Sarah M. Call of
the Stake Presidency, also Prest. Christiana
Higginson and Counselors Emma J. Wil
liams and Hannah Hatch of the Hatch
ward, and the Bishopric of both wards.
	President C. F. Loveland said she was
pleased to meet with her brothers and sis-
ters, asked for a portion of the spirit of the
Lord to be with us and said we had met to-
day to carry out the counsel that had been
given to the Relief Society.
	Sister Mary A. Call, President of the
Relief Society of the Stake, said she was
pleased to meet on this occasion and
thought all the sisters ought to take part in
the services, and that it was our duty.
	Counselor Sarah M. Call felt like going
ahead and doing the best she knew how.
	The program was then proceeded with.
First an essay by Prest Christina Higgin-
son, entitled “Woman’s Rights.” Next,
remarks by ex Bishop Call. He was
pleased to be with the sisters on this occa-
sion, There was a mission for the sisters
to perform and there was an object in hav-
ing a Relief Society, that was to help the
poor and needy. The teachers had the 
right to tell the members while going
around to be on their guard and also in-
quire if there were any poor in the ward,
and stated that the Relief Society was a
great help to the Bishops. Told the
men not to be stingy with their wheat if
their wives wanted a peck to give into the
Relief Society.
	Sister Sarah M. Call then read the min-
utes of the first Relief Society meeting that
was ever held in the Church, when it was
organized by the Prophet Joseph Smith.
	Then there was a song by Sister Katie
Bevins and company, followed by a few re-
marks by Bishop Tolman. He thought
the brethren would be willing to help their
wives and encourage them in the Relief
Society. 
	Counselor E. J. Williams said she felt to
do her duty and hoped we would all be
united. Next a recitation by Sister Alzina
Thompson, followed by remarks by
Brother Peter Williams of Hatch ward,
who said this was the first time he had
ever had the privilege of attending a Re-
lief Society meeting, but hoped it would
not be the last. Asked the Lord to bless
the president and counselors of the Stake,
also the Relief Society in both of the wards,
and as the Bishop of the Hatch ward he
felt to thank the sisters of the Chesterfield.
	Then there was a song from Mrs. John
Detton and company of Hatch ward, fol-
lowed by a reading by Sister Maggie Hatch
of Hatch ward. Next was an essay by
First Counselor Alice Yandy of Chester-
field ward.
	President C. F. Loveland arose and
thanked the brethren and sisters for their
kind attention, also thanked the committee
for their labors, and the entertainment
closed by the choir singing “Lo the Gen-
tile chain is broken.” Benediction by
Brother Ira Call. 
	COLUMBIA F. LOVELAND, Prest.
	ALZINA THOMPSON, Asst. Secy.


