THE LADIES! GOD BLESS THEM.

	[The following verses were given by Robert
Grant recently in response to the toast “The
Ladies” at the dinner of the Tavern Club of Bos-
ton, in honor of those who did service in con-
nection with the Hospital Ship, “Bay State:”]
You ask me to speak in behalf of the ladies
Who shone in our bout with the cohorts of 
	Cadiz!
You ask me to speak on behalf of the nurses,
And with your permission I’ll do it in verses.
“The ladies, God bless them!” the toast never
	varies
From Alaska’s cold snows to the sunny Can-
	aries.
Man fills up his goblet and drains it while
	drinking,
But the sentiment lies in the thought which
	he’s thinking.
Those dear little dolls with their pretty grim-
	aces,
Their kittenish ways and their delicate faces,
Are precious to some because dainty and 
	fearful,
Adorably helpless and readily tearful
The housewives with tact, rather plump and
	good-looking,
Nice amiable souls with a genius for cooking,
Are popular still with the saint and the sin-
	ner,—
When the Chair cries “The Ladies!” man
	thinks of his dinner.
The daughter of Spain with the night in her
	hair,
With the sloe in her eye and an indolent air, 
Entrances her lover who taps at her pane;
Delicious! but where are the navies of Spain?
That new woman is fair no man needs to be
	told,
She has night in her hair, she has tresses of
	gold;
But what makes her precious for you and for
	me
Is the soul which is in her, the soul which is
	free.
Which, bursting the fetters of fashion and
	caste,
Undeterred by tradition and deaf to the past,
Seeks a post in the ranks, claims the right to
	a place
Wherever her presence can succor the race.
Wherever there’s room for sweet patience
	and care,
For love which complains not and courage to
	bear
The stress of life’s battle; albeit to tread,
A hospital ship in the wake of the dead.
Humanity calls; and undaunted she stands,
There is sweat on her brow, there is blood on
	her hands.
Ho! dames with traditions, does this give
	you pain?
Take heed, and remember the navies of Spain!
“The ladies, God bless them!” Long life to
	the toast,
A health to the nurses who served at their
	post
In a hospital ship on a hurricane sea
For the sake of our country, for you and for
	me.


[Column 1]
DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP’S GRADUATES.
	Dr. Ellis R. Shipp’s last class in obstet-
rics and nursing held their oral examina-
tion in their teacher’s parlors, March 5.
They passed successfully before the three
invited doctors, and secured Dr. Shipp’s
certificate with the signatures of E. S.
Wright, M. D., H. A. Anderson, M. D.

[Column 2]
and L. W. Snow, M. D. I think it is
known that Sister Ellis R. Shipp is an
M. D. and graduated from Philadelphia.
	Then on April 3 the whole class, eight
in number, passed the written examination
before the State Medical Board of Utah.
They all averaged 80 per cent, and two of
the students, Mrs. Emily G. Cluff and Miss
Olea Shipp, were especially mentioned as
coming through with flying colors, these
two getting 95 per cent, while only 75 per
cent is the required percentage to secure a
diploma.
	Dr Shipp cannot receive too much
eulogy for the good work she is doing and
has done for years in teaching these classes.
The students are scattered all through the
country and do much good in the communi-
ties where they reside, in alleviating suffer-
ing, and what is better, instructing their
patients how to prevent it. In our branch
of medicine prevention is better than cure.
In almost any business mistakes can be
rectified, but in this mistakes may, and
often do, cause the death of either mother
or child, or both.
	Our successes have only caused us
to feel more humble and thankful to our
Heavenly Father, for we realize that He
has given us the ability to understand and
opened the way for us to devote our time
to this gloriously interesting study, and we
still depend upon Him for help in our own
chosen profession.
	After spending so many months in the
home of Dr. Shipp we have learned to love
and appreciate her for her very worth. She
truly has been a most diligent and devoted
teacher, with excellent expression and
ability, thorough and painstaking with her
students.
	I had the privilege of attending the
beautiful course of lectures given by Sister
Hannah Sorenson seven years ago, and it
was what I learned there that gave me a
great desire to learn more, and it is my de-
sire to still continue my studies along with
my practice.
	I shall ever regard my teachers as my
true and valued friends, for they have re-
flected the searchlight of truth upon wo-
man's destiny add lifted the vale of obscuri-
ty from subjects of vital importance to
the women of the Latter-day Saints, who
believe that it is their God-given destiny to
bear children and to rear them in the fear
and admonition of the Lord; and we would
like to sound the note of warning to those
who are in any way, or by any means,
tempted to shirk the responsibility of legiti-
mate motherhood. We are warned and
forewarned by our leading brethren and
sisters against the enormous sins practiced
by many today, and I feel that all good,
Christian women, especially those in our
profession, should use their influence to
check these growing evils.
	Trusting these classes will be sustained.
I remain your sister in all that is for the
benefit of our sisters.
