COLONIA, JUAREZ.
	In compliance with the wish of the
General Board, the Relief Society of Colon-
ia, Juarez, gave a party on the evening of
March 17, in commemoration of the day on
which the Relief Society was organized in
the year 1842.
	At seven o’clock in the evening the
meeting house bell rang out its cheerful
ding-dong, and people came from far and
near. All married people of the town were
invited. In a short time the house was
well filled. The orchestra set up a lively
tune and all who wished to do so engaged
in the dance, while others spent the time in
social chat. From time to time during the
evening, songs, recitations, and speeches
were rendered, making a very pleasing


program. The house was nicely decorated
for the occasion, especially the stage which
presented a cosy appearance, for the commit-
tee had provided cosy chairs for the aged.
Tables were interspersed here and there
which were strewn with views, art books
and bouquets of flowers. The walls were
neatly decorated with the national colors,
red, white and green, also mistletoe and
pictures, giving a home-like appearance to
the scene.
	Some months ago Sister Phoebe Fife;
who had been president of the society for a
number of years, decided to make her
future home in Arizona, therefore she gave
in her resignation. This was thought a
suitable occasion to reorganize the society.
The Bishop, J. C. Bentley, being present
an organization was effected with Mary B.
Eyring president, and Annie H. Clayson as
first and Jane Croff as second counselors.
	Immediately after the reorganization,
Sister Eyring, who is Stake president of
the Relief Society, made a very fitting
speech on Relief Society work. Then fol-
lowed refreshments which were served by
a bevy of the younger sisters. The picnic,
consisting of roast chicken, sandwiches,
pickles, pie, cake, tarts and lemonade, was
a great success, and was served to about
one hundred and fifty individuals. The
order in which the picnic was served was
one of the main features of the evening’s
entertainment, and great credit is due the
committee for the able manner in which
the whole affair was conducted.
	The recent visit of Dr. Karl G. Maeser
and Elder D. John Nuttall to our dear little
home in Sunny South, has been a source
of joy to the Saints who reside here. At a
special meeting of the Relief Society Broth-
er L. John Nuttall instructed the sisters in
regard to the real objects of the Relief
Society. They are organized not only for
the relief of the poor, but for the salvation
of souls; for the putting down of iniquity,
correcting the morals find manners and
strengthening the virtues. This should be
a select society, separate from all the evils
of the world, choice, virtuous find holy.
The young ladies should be encouraged to
take part in this society, that they may not
be taken away into outside associations and
be led by other influences than that the
Gospel gives. Brother Nuttall kindly
urged the sisters to study the Church
works and give lectures from them in their
meetings.
		SARAH A. CLAYSON, Stake Sec.


