LEONORA CANNON TAYLOR.
	In the little antiquated town of Peel on
the Isle of Man, there was born near the
close of last century a girl who was des-
tined to be the means of bringing salvation
to many souls of her father’s household,
and to herself occupy a somewhat conspicu-
ous station in the new dispensation about to
be ushered in by the Lord. Her name was
Leonora Callister Cannon, the daughter of
Capt. George Cannon and Leonora Callister

[Column 2]
Cannon. Both her parents belonged to old
and well connected families, and there was
scarcely a portion of the island in which
their kinsfolk might not be found.
	She received the advantages of a good,
sound education and was greatly beloved
by all her relatives and acquaintances.
From early childhood she showed strong
traits of character, and early in life her at-
tention was directed towards religion. In
whatsoever society she was placed, her in-
fluence was always used to impress her
associates with the advantages and pleasures
of serving the Lord. After she grew up
she spent a great deal of time in London
with friends of her parents, and though she
moved in fashionable society, she always
carried with her this lofty piety and this
influence in favor of the Lord’s service,
never being diverted in the least degree
from attending to those duties which she
felt were incumbent upon her as a child of
God.
	Among her friends was a young lady
who became engaged to a Colonel Bacon
of the British army. This officer had been
appointed secretary to the Governor Gener-
al of Canada, and the marriage occurred on
the eve of his departure for that country.
His journey to his new station was to be
his wedding tour, and it was arranged that
Miss Cannon should accompany her friend
and the latter’s husband upon this journey.
	After remaining in Canada a short time,
Miss Cannon made preparations to return
to England. Meantime, being a methodist,
she became acquainted with John Taylor, a
young preacher in that denomination. He
was greatly attracted by her, and shortly
afterwards made a proposal of marriage.
She was intent upon returning to her home,
however, and declined his offer; but a dream
which she subsequently had, in which it
was made manifest to her that she ought to
marry him, changed all her feelings, and
when he renewed his proposals she accepted
him.
	Both being very devout people, they
read the scriptures diligently, and it soon
became apparent to them that there were
powers and gifts which had been enjoyed
by the ancient Saints that were not possessed
by the church to which they belonged.
Among their acquaintances were others of
the same way of thinking, and they met to-
gether often to study the scriptures, seek-
ing earnestly for that measure of satisfac-
tion which they felt was still denied them.
	While their minds were thus exercised
Parley P. Pratt, an Apostle of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, came
to Toronto. They made his acquaintance.
Mrs. Taylor readily received the doctrines
of the Church and accepted the testimony
borne by Elder Pratt. Her husband was
more cautious, but after a time his doubts
were removed also, and they both embraced
the Gospel, and thus separated themselves
from their former friends and acquaintances.
	I need not dwell upon the particulars of
the visit of the Prophet Joseph Smith and
Sidney Rigdon, or of Elder Taylor’s visit to
Kirtland, or of the fatigues and hardships
of the journey to Missouri, which she shared

[Column 3]
with her husband, during which toilsome
journey one of her children was born; nor
need I dwell upon all the sufferings which
they endured in common with the Saints
in their expulsion from Missouri. I need
only say that in all these trials she displayed
a most heroic faith and was a constant com-
fort and help to her husband, strengthening
his hands and giving him every encourage-
ment which affection could suggest in the
trying scenes through which he had to pass.
When he was called with the rest of the
Twelve to take a mission to England, she
was left in the barracks in Montrose, where
with her little children, she struggled with
the difficulties and hardships and privations
and poverty that were the lot of all the
Saints at that time, and particularly of the
families of the Twelve.
	After his return, it was Elder Taylor’s
fortune to be with the Prophet Joseph at
the time when he surrendered himself to
his enemies at Carthage. You all know
the history of that dreadful occurrence.
Those were times that tried the souls of
men and women. The Prophet and Patri-
arch were killed, and Elder Taylor was 
shot in several places. Bringing him from
Carthage to Nauvoo in his wounded con.
dition and in the intense heat of that trying
summer seemed to promise but one result,
and that was his death. His devoted wife
visited Carthage as soon as she heard of the
massacre, and tenderly nursed and cared
for him while there and on the road back.
With unfaltering devotion and the utmost
solicitude she did everything in the power
of mortal to nurse him back to life and
health, and exhibited in all those trying
scenes the strength of character for which
she was already noted.
	The journey across the plains and the
endurance of the trials and difficulties of
the early settlement of this valley, (of which
she was one of the pioneers of 1847), again
brought out these admirable qualities which
she possessed in the most striking degree.
She had her trials as all her sisters of those
days had who were prominent and whose
husbands obeyed the commands of the
Lord; but during all this her faith never
wavered. Tried as she might be, she al-
ways testified that she knew that this was
the work of God, that Joseph was a prophet
of God, and that all that had been revealed
through him was divine. No one who
ever associated with her, no matter how
intimately, ever heard a word from her ex-
pressive of the least doubt concerning the
divinity of this work. And thus she lived,
carrying with her always in her association
with relatives and friends the good spirit
which prompted her to embrace the Gospel
when she heard it from the lips of a servant
of God.
	Her memory is deeply cherished by her
kindred, for they look upon her as an in-
strument in the hands of God of bringing
salvation to them. They are already a
host in the mountains of Zion, and they
thank the Lord for having inspired Leonora
Cannon Taylor to take the course which
has resulted so happily for them.
						C. Y. C.


