EDITORIAL NOTES.

	Errata: In the article in April 1st, en-
titled “A Pleasant’ Gathering” there are
two mistakes—the name of the town
where Mrs. Folsom was born should
have been West Suffield instead of Suf-
folk, and the year of their arrival in the
valley was 1860 instead of 1853.
	During conference time we had the
great pleasure of a brief visit from Mrs.
Hannah J. Bailey, of Winthrop Centre,
Maine, on her return from California,
whither she went last fall in search of
health and for a respite from business
cares. Mrs Bailey was the treasurer of
the National Council during the last four
years, and is a woman of great executive
and financial ability. She was traveling
with her brother, Mr. Johnston, who has
extensive commercial interests. They
were both pleased with Salt Lake City
and its people. Mrs. Bailey and brother
attended conference Thursday afternoon,
and we had the pleasure of a call from
the lady at this office, and of spending an
evening with Mrs. Bailey and Mr. John-
ston at the Knutsford. The following
day we went with them to introduce them
to the Governor and left them with the
Governor’s private secretary; Mrs. Emily
S. Richards and Mrs. Margaret A. Caine
accompanied them to the Lake in the
afternoon. We were very sorry the sis-
ters had not an opportunity of showing
Mrs. Bailey some special attention, as she
is not only a very prominent woman in
the Council, but also a very sweet and
amiable person and is everywhere high-
ly respected.
	The Mothers’ Congress which was held
in the Assembly Hall in this city on the
10th and 11th of this month, proved to be
of great interest to the public, and gives
those who have undertaken the move-
ment encouragement in its future success
as a permanent organization. Miss Mary
C. May who has been the president in the
past has been very active and efficient in
promulgating the idea, in connection with
Kindergarten teaching, and deserves
commendation for her exertions in this
direction. It is safe to say we cannot
have too much knowledge on the subjects
of mother, child and home. Mrs. Rebec-
ca E. Little, the new president, and Mrs.
Emily S. Richards, the first vice president,
are well known in the community and
will certainly be able to carry on the
work successfully. The ladies from the
East, Mrs. Westendorf and Mrs Helen
Campbell, are well known in a literary
way, eloquent speakers and good reason-
ers, and chose subjects suited to the times
and eminently popular with the audience.
Excellent papers were given by Susa
Y. Gates and Amy B. Lyman, and Prof.
Geo. H. Brimhall of the Brigham Young
Academy gave a very interesting talk on
Intelligent Fatherhood. Altogether it was
a successful session of the Mothers’ Assem-
bly, and gives great hopes for the future.


