WOOD RIVER, IDAHO.
	The people of Little Wood River, Idaho,
(Bishop Harris’ ward) had a very pleasant
reunion on March 17th, to celebrate the
organization of the Relief Society.
	Meeting opened with prayer by Mrs.
Elizabeth Howard, counselor. Address of
welcome was given by Relief Society
president, Mrs. Annie Pettigrew.
	The Bishop and others in the ward
helped to make this entertainment a success.
The program consisted of songs, recitations,
music, readings, speeches, etc. A bounti-
ful repast was served to those present.
	After an enjoyable time the company was
dismissed with prayer by Mrs. Mary S.
Phippen, counselor.
	A party for the children was given the
next day.
				AMANDA M. GUIVER.
ANNIVERSARY CELEBRATION IN ENGLAND.
	The sisters of this (the Nottingham, Eng-
land) Relief Society, held in honor the
anniversary of the organization of the same,
on Monday night, March 20, 1899, at
the president’s, Sister Hanson’s, house.
	The society was well represented, there
were eleven of the sisters present, Elders,
President Geo. Ruff, Joshua Coombs and
Alfred L. Cole, also several of the sisters’
husbands were present.
	Supper commenced at 8 p. m., and we
all partook heartily of the good things
spread before us. After supper there were
songs and recitations, also speeches given
by the sisters. The Elders also spoke to us
and gave us some very good advice, and
encouraged us in the work in which we are
engaged, for they knew it to be a noble
work. The young sisters present were
especially requested to be obedient to their
parents, and to have charity one towards
another and to be in love and unity with
all the Saints, for where there is union
there is strength. The meeting was then
brought to a close by singing the hymn “O
my Father.” The benediction was pro-
nounced by Elder Joshua Coombs.
				EDITH CABLE, Sec.
MARCH 17TH, AT AFTON, WYOMING.
	Fifty seven years ago today our beloved
prophet, Joseph Smith, organized a society
known as the Relief Society, to relieve the
sick, care for the poor and comfort those
who mourn. At that time though few in
number they were a sturdy band of sisters,
and have since continued to grow.
	Today we meet to celebrate the anniver-
sary of that day and to speak of those who
were thus engaged, for in our hearts there
burns a fire which will never be quenched,
a reverence for the Pioneers which will
never cease.
	At 10 o’clock began our exercises. Opened
by a beautiful speech by our amiable
president, Harriet Cazier, on the organiza-
tion, followed by a lecture on Health
by Stake President Kittie E. Dixon, also a
speech on Woman’s Rights by Counselor
Mary Gardner, and the beautiful song,
“Mother I have heard Sweet Music,” by
the Hurd sisters, and many other beauti-
ful songs, music, speeches, dialogues and
readings. Much praise must be given the
young sisters for the ability shown by them
in preparing a luxurious feast ready for
those present to partake of at the close of

[Column 2]
the morning’s exercises, after which the
remainder of the program was rendered.
	The Stake Presidency, George Osmond,
Wm. W. Burton and Patriarch C. D. Cazi-
er, with their smiling faces showed they
were pleased to be in such good society.
	At night in the Opera House was given a
grand ball. Young and old met and
tripped the light fantastic toe until the wee
small hours of the morn.
	It is such events as these that make the
sisters who toil for the good of others feel
that life is worth living, and make them
glad they have lived.
			ANNIEBELLE HILL, Sec.
MARCH 17TH AT FREEDOM.
	A little space in your valuable paper will
suffice to tell of our Relief Society and its
earnest workers. Our village is small,
having but about twenty families, and we
know how to appreciate our meetings.
	A little over a year ago President Mary
A. Hyde, with others of our good sisters
visited us and organized our society, with
Sister Fanny F. Brown, president; Sisters
Florence Lowry and Nellie Draper, coun-
selors; Sister Elnora H. Taylor, secretary.
Having no Y. L. M. I. A. our young ladies
were asked to take part and help at all
times, which they have willingly done.
	Our meetings are held every two weeks,
with a fairly good attendance under try-
ing conditions, such as bad weather and
living at distances from our place of gather-
ing. The teachers meet with great success,
and liberal donations are given in. We
have finished one quilt and sold it, which
brought us something over five dollars.
Since our organization we have been visited
once by Sister A. L. Cox of Manti, and one
of her aids.
	On the 17th of March we celebrated, the
organization of the society by Joseph
Smith in 1842. Meeting was called to or-
der by President Fanny F. Brown. Sing-
ing. “Gladly meeting,” after which Broth-
er Wm. Lowry, our Bishop’s counselor,
offered prayer. Singing, “Love at Home.”
	A splendid program was rendered in the
way of speeches, songs, instrumental music
and readings.
	The most important feature of the pro-
gram was a reading by Sister Hannah
Crompton, who is now in her 84th year
and who read in such a clear and distinct
voice that every one in the house was able
to catch every word. After the program
was ended came our bounteous spread, 
which was enjoyed by all.
		Your sister in the Gospel 
