CONFERENCES AND MEETINGS.

	The month of April so far has been full
and running over with conferences, con-
gresses, meetings, lectures, entertainments
and so on; and really there is a variety.
	The General Conference opened on 
Thursday morning, April 6, most auspicious-
ly. The weather was fine, President
Lorenzo Snow seemed in the best of health
and spirits, also his counselors, President
George Q. Cannon and President Joseph F.
Smith, who were present on the stand, also
President Franklin D. Richards and a num-
ber of Apostles, and the choir were in good
voice as usual. The entire session of the
conference which included Sunday, was of
the greatest interest, and the attendance
each day was very large.
	On Saturday a priesthood meeting con-
vened in the large Tabernacle, and the Re-
lief Society held its two sessions morning
and afternoon in the Assembly Hall on the
same day, and there was a larger congre-
gation than on any previous occasion,
which is indicative of progress and an in-
crease in members.
	President Zina D. H. Young and her en-
tire board of officers were present on the 
stand and many Relief Society Stake presi-
dents, some of them from long distances.
	During the morning session President
Mary A. Hyde of Sanpete Stake spoke in
the gift of tongues, and the audience seemed
much impressed with the spirit which at-
tended this manifestation. Dr. Elvira S.
Barney gave the interpretation and it was
apparently a blessing and prophecy to the
sisters engaged in the benevolent work of
ministering to the needy, the afflicted and
the sorrowing.
	Dr. Margaret C. Roberts reported con-
cerning the charitable nursing class taught
by her during the last winter under the
auspices of the Relief Society of Salt Lake
Stake, and of the interest taken in their
studies by the students and her own enthu-
siasm in teaching them and her ardent de-
sire to see them acquit themselves well.
	Sister Priscilla J. Riter gave something
of her experience as superintendent of the
practical work of the nurses, her plans and
ideas, and what had been done in this de-
partment for the sick and suffering. 
	Other speakers during the morning were
President Zina D. H. Young who spoke a
few words of welcome to the large congre-
gation, expressing her great pleasure,
especially in seeing so many representatives
from a distance.
	President B. W. Smith spoke a few
words encouraging the young girls to join

[Column 2]
the society, and entreated them to keep
themselves pure and virtuous and serve the
Lord.
	President M. Isabella Horne alluded to
the signs of the times, and urged the sisters
to beware of evil influences.
	President Jane S. Richards dwelt upon
charity and alluded to the scriptures, where
the Lord said “Do good to them that de-
spitefully use you and persecute you.”
	Meeting closed with prayer by Dr. R. B.
Pratt.
	The afternoon meeting was even more
interesting if possible than the session in
the morning. Apostle F. M. Lyman was
present and listened attentively to the sis-
ters; several from far away places were
called upon and spoke briefly of their labors.
Among these were Sister Thomas from
Canada; Miss Millie Campbell from Ban-
nock, Idaho; Sister E. Woollacott from
Los Angeles and Sister Harriet Nye from
San Francisco; President Lucy Grant from
Woodruff, a Stake only recently organized,
and Sister Julia Blackburn from Wayne.
	Apostle F. M. Lyman addressed the con-
gregation for a short time, commended the
labors of the sisters in the society. He re-
vered the mothers in Israel who had labored
so long and faithfully, urged the young
women to become members and be helpful
in this benevolent work, the society should 
be so popular that not one woman should
be left who was not registered, it was a
good thing to be registered, at least every
married woman should be a member of the
Relief Society, the very first and choicest
section of the Church. He referred to the
meeting he attended with the sisters in
Tooele on the 17th of March, with seventy
four sisters, that day was the Relief Society
day and would be held sacred in the future.
Spoke of other important events transpir-
ing on that day, and bore testimony that he
came to the Sisters’ Conference laden with 
the blessings of President Lorenzo Snow 
for the sisters, and that they had his love
and confidence; and Apostle Lyman after
saying many good things blest the sisters 
one and all.
	Sister L. L. Greene Richards spoke a 
few words concerning her visit to the Relief
Society in Chicago, and spoke very sweetly
of Sister Rosa Smith, the president of that
society, who was a Nephi girl, and how
President Paxman had told her—she should
yet preside, and his words had been literally
fulfilled.
	Sisters Zina D. H. Young and Jane S.
Richards each spoke briefly, and some oth-
ers, President Ann C. Woodbury of St.
George, who displayed some silk made at
that place; President Eliza B. Orms of Poca-
tello Stake; Sister Bergen from Arizona, and
a few others. The congregation sang “O,
my Father,” and a benediction was pro-
nounced by President Sarah Jane Cannon.

	Sunday services were held in the Taber-
nacle morning and afternoon, and also an
overflow meeting in the Assembly Hall
in the afternoon, both places were crowd-
ed, many remained standing during the
entire service. The conference throughout
was glorious and excellent in spiritual
teaching, and filled with wise counsel and
instruction to the people if they will but
hearken to the voice of the spirit.


Any complaints from subscribers in
reference to the Woman’s Exponent
should be sent to the editor at this office
and will be promptly explained.


