LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	 Semi-monthly meeting held Feb. 25,
1899, in the 14th ward hall with Counselor
Elizabeth J. Stevenson presiding. Singing,
“Who are these arrayed in white?” Pray-
er by Sister Margaret Steele. Singing
“O, happy souls!”
	Sister Stevenson said we had met togeth-
er to have a feast. Sister Zina had said
“a testimony meeting was like a picnic—
one brought one thing, and another some-
thing else.” Spoke of the necessity of
watching our children, said there was great
danger of apostacy at the present time.
Teach children whenever we meet them, we
should talk to the boys as well as the girls.
The Prophet Joseph Smith said the mothers
could influence their children even before
they were born. Thought parents should
call upon their children to pray in turn.
Referred to the faith of Timothy, who had
received it through the teaching of his
mother and grandmother. We should set
an example worthy of emulation before our
children.
	Sister Mary L. Morris spoke of the
efficacy of prayer in the rearing of her
children, also related an incident showing
mothers how to teach truthfulness and
honesty among their children.
	Sister Webb said she hoped we had all
left our cares at home to come here and en-
joy the spirit of the Lord. Could see that
not only the little children needed the care
and teaching of mothers, but our married
children also needed our counsel and prayer.
Said she had always taught her boys as
well as girls to be virtuous. We must be
charitable to the young people, lead them,
they cannot be coerced.
	Sister Mary A. Hardy spoke of the bless-
ing the Relief Society had been to her.
Said that we should be united, and how
careful we should be about finding fault
with the Servants of God.
	Sister Martha Morris sang “The trials of
the present day.”
	Sister Jeffs said she had never had cause
to regret the part she had taken in the Re-
lief Society, it had proven a benefit to her.
She knew Joseph Smith was a prophet of
God.
	Sister Mary E. Bassett said she always
felt fed and strengthened when she came to
these meetings.
	Sister Saunders said she had always
praised the Lord that she was worthy to be
a Latter-day Saint. The Gospel was
sweeter to her all the time.
	A sister in the congregation bore a hum-
ble testimony of God’s goodness.
	Sister Jones said she came to get a spirit-
ual feast, that she had left her cares at
home, and that she had received what she
came for. Another sister spoke of the gift
of healing in her behalf, and other gifts and
blessings she had received through faith.
	Sister L. D. Alder spoke of the instruc-
tions of Sister Sarah M. Kimball to the women
to pay their tithing, related an incident in


tithe paying, how God rewards us for keep-
ing this commandment.
	Sister Julia G. Howe spoke of the com-
fort the Lord had given her in her trials
this winter. Said in coming to meeting
she renewed her strength, and said we
should be faithful and do our duty, that
when we have trials we can draw near to
our Heavenly Father; and let us not speak
against the authorities, nor harbor ill feel-
ings against any one.
	Sister Frances Smith bore testimony of
the Gospel. Another sister bore testimony
of God’s goodness.
	Sister Jane James spoke of the truthful-
ness of tithe paying. Said she wanted to
live so that the Lord would hear and
answer her prayers. She knew her Redeem-
er lived.
	The congregation sang “Come let us
anew.” Sister Mary Silver said she be-
lieved in paying tithing. She knew the
Lord would bless us for doing so and keep-
ing the word of wisdom. Said she thanked
the Lord she was one among this peo-
ple.
	Sister Maerentha Bulbock said she knew
this was a very trying age, and she knew
she could go to the Lord for His help.
Felt that she had been fed spiritually.
	Sister Ellis knew this was the kingdom
of God. Spoke of the gift of healing that
had lately been made manifest in her
family.
	Counselor Stevenson said it made her re-
joice to see the young sisters bear testimony
in these meetings.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks.
Singing, “Satan’s empire long has flour-
shed.” Benediction by Sister Brown.
