HYGENIC NOTES.

	To Cure Hoarseness.—When the voice is lost,
as is sometimes the case, from the effects of a
cold, a simple, pleasant remedy is furnished by
beating up the white of one egg, adding the juice
of one lemon, and sweetening with white sugar to
the taste. Take a teaspoonful from time to time.
It has been known to effectually cure the ailment.
	Lemonade for Scarlet Fever.—An eminent phys-
ician of a Western city, says he has cured ninety-
nine out of every hundred cases of scarlet fever
by giving the patient warm lemonade with gum
arabic dissolved in it. A cloth wrung out in hot
water and laid upon the stomach should be re-
moved as rapidly as it becomes cool.
	Remedy for Earache.—There is scarcely any
ache to which children are subject, so bad to bear
and difficult to cure, as earache. But there is a
remedy, never known to fail. Take a bit of cot-
ton batting, put upon it a pinch of black pepper,
gather it up, tie it, dip in sweet oil and insert in
the ear. Put a flannel bandage over the head to
keep it warm. It will give immediate relief.
	Cure for Diptheria.—A correspondent of the
Boston Journal writes that he has used the follow-
ing remedy for diptheria in a great many hard
cases, and in not one has it failed to effect a cure.
It is as follows:—Procure some pitch tar—not gas
tar—put a little on a hot iron, invert a tunnel over
the smoke, and let the patient inhale as much as
he can without strangling, for a few minutes five
or six times a day. During the intervals let the
patient have small pieces of ice to keep as near
the roots of the tongue as possible.
	Another Remedy in Diptheria:—Dr. Hopkins,
in the Physician and Pharmacist, strongly urges
the employment of acid tannate or iron as a local
remedy in diptheria. It may be prepared, he
says, by the addition of one ounce of the muria-
ted tincture of iron to one of a strong solution of
tannin, and applied by means of a brush to the
diseased throat, or elsewhere as the case may be;
or, what is perhaps a still b[-]tter way, apply the
muriated tincture of iron in full strength to the
diseased part with a brush, wait a few moments,
then apply the solution of tannin in the same way,
thus forming a union of the two at the point of
disease, having the advantage of chemical action,
if there be any. On examination a few hours af-
ter, the line of demarcation will be seen distinctly
drawn by the discoloration of the diseased tissue,
showing the exact extent of the disease, the very
thing desired; with a tendency to separation, which
will go on rapidly, if the system be properly
treated with a nourishing diet and tonic and stim-
ulating remedies. Dr. Hopkins regards this rem-
edy as "above all others."


HOW IT IS DONE: "We know the pub-
lic is down upon us" remarked the old milk-
man, as he dipped out the desired quart
from one of his big cans; "but the public is
mistaken. In the fust place we put in a
leetle water—only a bit to make up for
shrinkage. It goes to the big dealers, and
they aint a bit keerful when they git to
pouring in water. They sells it to the re-
tailers, and they put in chalk with one
hand and water with the other, and they
are thinking of politics and git too much.
The servant gal goes after milk for the fam-
ily and drinks a third of it, and she puts
in water to make up the measure; and, you
see, when the family gets it the taste ain't
there, and they goes for us poor old men
who hasn't a dishonest hair in our heads.
That's the way, Mister—gee up, there, Ho-
mer!"
	WHY is a bald head like Paradise? Be-
cause it is a bright shining place, where
there is neither parting nor dying.


