		WOMEN'S SUFFRAGE.

	"Recently a public meeting in favor
of women's suffrage was held in St.
George's Hall, Langham plaee, Mr. Russel
Gurney, M. P., the Recorder of London,
presiding. The hall was quite full, and
among those on the platform were Miss
Becker, Miss Sturge, Miss Frances Power
Cobbe and Miss Tod."
	The chairman, after congratulating the
audience upon so large a meeting, after a
temporary discouragement in the House of
Commons, went on to enumerate some of
the items contained in the Bill which had
just recently been rejected. He thought the
Bill corrected the injustice which existed
and he argued that he could not see consist-
ency in allowing one landholder or a person
occupying house No. 13, and paying rates,
for that house, being allowed to vote, and a
person occupying No. 14, and bearing the
same burdens, not being allowed to vote
merely because there was a difference of
sex in the two occupants. He denied that
if women voted they would be enti-
tled to the right of sitting in Parliament,
any more than clergymen who had votes,
but had been prevented for more than a
century from sitting in Parliament. He
could not see why women should not have
their views represented: they could not al-
ways take the same view of questions as
men. He alluded to the complaints coming
mostly from wives, sisters, and daughters;
the subject of the injustice done to younger
sons was also brought up, that the eldest
sons carried off all the property, yet young-
er sons were not excluded from the fran-
chise.
	Miss Becker rose to propose the first reso-
lution as follows:—"That this meeting
hereby records its approval of the assimila-
tions of the conditions of the Parliamen-
tary, to those of the Municipal franchise in
so far as regards the disabilities of sex, and
pledges itself to support the principle by
every constitutional means." Before speak-
ing to it, however, she wished to read the
following letter:—
			"39, Sloane-street, May 13.
	"Madam,—I regret that I cannot comply
with your request in attending the meeting
at St. George's Hall. You must not on that
account, however, infer that I am unfriend-
ly to its object, I have voted in its favor on
more than one occasion, and doubtless I
shall do so again. It may be, as some think,
that no great advantage at this time would
accrue to the country by extending the
electoral suffrage, but I cannot see any prin-
ciple or consistency in withholding it, es-
pecially from those whose cause you are
pleading. The Legislature has conferred
the right on women of voting for their mu-
nicipal representatives, of voting for, (and,
indeed, acting as) Poor Law Guardians, and
the same with regard to School Boards, and
they have always been entitled to fill cer-
tain parochial offices, and it is never alleged
that in the discharge of these duties they
have acted less worthily than men. In
most respects, their rights as owners of
property are concurrent with those of men.
They can inherit peerages, and, as we know
to our satisfaction, they can occupy the
Throne. I cannot see, therefore, on what
ground it is that they can reasonably be said
to be disqualified from determining upon
the claims of candidates who seek to repre-
sent their interests in Parliament, especi-
under the peaceful condition in which they
would now record their votes.
	"As far as I am acquainted with the ob-
jections usually alleged, I am bound to say

[Column 2]
that they appear to be those which have al-
ways been offered whenever fresh extension
of liberty to the subject has been proposed,
and which in former years I have myself
heard urged against personal freedom in
the Colonies, religious liberty in this coun-
try, the enfranchisement of the working
classes, and against the abolition of every
monoply (political or commercial) whenever
it has been assailed. We have seen, how-
ever, with what little success resistance up-
on these great matters has of late years been
attended, and with what satisfaction the
results of past changes are now regarded by
the country. You, then, have little reason
to feel discouragement at the present posi-
tion of your cause. You have only to per-
severe, making it clear to the public that
your claim is just and possible to be enfore-
ed—and that political rights are now with-
held where there is intelligence and capaci-
ty to use them wisely and where the posses-
sion of them would afford protection and
benefit to those who demand them.
	"With great respect, dear Madam, I re-
main your obedient servant,
