			SAINTS?

	The question is often asked, are you a
Latter-day Saint? We answer yes. But
do we fully realize the word Latter-day
Saint, do we live in such a manner that we
can say with sincerity that we are living
our religion to the best of our understand-
ing? I think we do not. We do not real-
ize as we should the blessings and privileges
that we enjoy, and we cannot comprehend
the glory that is in store for those who
truly live their religion according to the
plan laid down by our Savior. We are all
children of the same Father, and we can all
claim the blessings that He has promised
His children if we will walk in the paths
that He has assigned for us, and follow in
His footsteps. All have a certain amount of
work to perform, and of trials to endure,
and we must be tested by our own exertions
and experience. If we do not live up to
the light and knowledge which is given us
we must suffer the consequence in the day
of judgment. We cannot throw our sins
and wickedness upon the shoulders of oth-


ers. Each one must answer for themselves
we are not all gifted with the same amount
of intelligence, but we all have our own;
agency to act upon, and should be capable
of comprehending right from wrong. We
should improve our time instead of spend-
ing it in idleness and frivolity. We may
think we have plenty of time here upon the
earth, but remember we have none to lose,
and if each of us will live our religion as
true Latter-day Saints we will be prepared
for the coming of the Messiah; but if we
will allow our minds to become darkened,
we will be cast out from His presence; then
we will wish that we had improved the op-
portunities that were before us, and had
lived nearer our Heavenly Father; but it
will be too late then. Now is the time that
we must do right and live our religion. If
we always lived as we should there would
be no need of Retrenchment, but we think
more of following the fashions of the world
than we do of our religion, hence these
meetings were organized for our good, to
help us to a spiritual education, and if we
come here with a firm determination to put
into practice the teachings which we re-
ceive from time to time; and strive to pre-
pare ourselves to live lives of usefulness,
we will derive much benefit.
	The most of us have been taught from
our infancy, that Mormonism was true; and
we have believed it, because our parents
have taught us so; but now we are old
enough and it is necessary that we should
have a testimony for ourselves. If we have
doubts at any time, we should seek the
Lord in prayer and ask him to enlighten
our understanding, and if we ask Him in
faith and humility He will assuredly give
us His holy spirit to enlighten our minds;
and we will have a living testimony with-
in us.						A. S.


For the EXPONENT.
