		OVERWORKED WOMEN.

		"Man's work is e'en from sun to sun,
		But woman's work is never done."

	Ah, it is an old saying, old almost I know,
as our native hills; but so very true, as a
whole, so wise in its timing, so pretty the
rhyming that it may well act as sponsor to
all past dissertations on the subject. I said
as a whole, for though the great mass of
mankind do not expect or wish to work,
only from sun to sun—and we give them
full credit for knowing that it is only dire
misfortune in the end if they do—it unfor-
tunately happens there are many who by
force of circumstances, feel either obliged
to do so, to satisfy the needs of the hour, or
relying too confidently on their present
stock of endurance, stretch it, gutta percha
like, thus encroaching upon the principal,
instead of being satisfied with the sure and
all-sufficient interest. But the laws of na-
ture not to be defied, are as exacting in the
one case as the other; the penalty for in-
fringement on their domain the same.
	Now that we have settled the one, let us
go back to the ninety and nine wise men,
who almost literally work from sun to sun.
What shall we say of them? What is nec-
essary or best to say? Only this, what we
have already said: They are wise men in
this regard and shall reap the result of their
wisdom, just as surely as the sower of tares
shall reap tares again, You will think I
have wandered from my subject, or what is
more likely still, have not touched upon it
at all; but, believe me, I have not forgotten
that just above, and woven in with my old-
time rhyme, is Woman's name. Believe me
also, that her cause, inasmuch as it may
seem in jeopardy, is too near to my heart to
be lost sight of for any length of time.

To those who most do need should most be, given:
Though sometimes oak and tiny flower alike are light-
	ning riven.

Just so sure as it is the exceptional man
who works beyond the going down of the
sun, just so sure is it the exceptional wo-
man who does not.
	All through our alleged liberty-loving
New England, our women household toil-

[Column 2]
ers are numbered by the thousands, and,
though all who have charge in any way of
such households come within the scope of
my remarks, more nearly and more in sor-
row goes out my pity for those who have
such charges, with little, and so very often
no help at all. For the very reason that
this is so common a thing, Woman herself,
both the worker and the looker-on, fail to
give due importance either to the thing it-
self, or its dreadful results.
	Because we say 'housework,' do we
mean everything that can possibly be done
beneath the roof? for let me tell you that
the trades comprised under this head, are
almost numberless. For instance, here is
Master Tommy. Mamma is expected, not
only to keep Master Tommy's hair in proper
trim, knit his socks and black his shoes, but
to make every garment worn by him, from
those same shoes to the cropped hair, and
finally put on the crowning finish in the
shape of a hat on his unruly head. Allow-
ing for patches and darns innumerable, is it
not plain that this service alone must take
quite a slice from the time needed for what
should be considered household proper?
But supposing, as is often the case, there is 
also a Jack and Philip and Ned to be done
unto likewise? Then too, a Sally and Fan-
ny and Jane and yet the so-called house-
hold work at the end of it all?
	You think my picture preposterous per-
haps, and so it should be, and so it is, but
none the less "for a' that" it is true and—
yes, dear reader, right here you must allow
me to say, that as at present conducted in
the thousands of households scattered all
over our land, and in the face of the appar-
ently nonending wonder that housework
should be considered unpopular, if there is
one kind of labor more than another which
is unthanked, unappreciated drudgery, it
is this same so-called, housework. All oth-
er faces may be joyous that the morning,
noon, or evening rest has come, may lift
their grateful thoughts to him who made it,
for Saturday night with its sweet anticipa-
tions of a blessed Sabbath's rest. Where,
oh, where, is the seventh day's freedom from
toil for the weary housekeeper?
	That many men work seemingly to the
extent of their powers of endurance, such
a number of hours per day is true. Equal-
ly true is it, that the wives of many such
men after working the same, in point of
time and quantity, still work on, three
hours in addition to his, and sometimes,
(not always let us hope with the bitterest
bit of sarcastic insult for reward) their sup-
port is granted them in condescending char-
ity and magnanimity.
	You think I have spoken bitterly perhaps;
I know I have spoken truthfully.
	Neither, if you please, plead the light-
ness of Woman's work compared with
Man's. Her work is in accordance with her
physical strength, quite as hard as it is for
him, whilst the planning and plotting of
her almost innumerable tasks tax her brain
power to its utmost.
	Women go into the open air too little.
When they do go, it comes, after a time,
as cares accumulate, to be on some errand
where haste is indispensable, consequently
it is no rest, but only added tiredness.
	There is little or no time for mental im-
provement, less even for the recreation,
both physical and mental, so necessary to
all conditions of life. If, in consequence of
failing health this is taken notice of, she
may be urged, aye, even lectured at odd
times, to go out; but somehow the one
thing needful is apt to be overlooked. The
drift of care and toil is not lessened. No
one proposes to sacrifice one superfluous

[Column 3]
want, and experience has taught her well
that if they are all attended to there is no
time left for out-door exercises.
	What wonder, in view of this method,
that our race is dwindling and degenerating?
What wonder even that the overworked
mothers tremble at the advent of a woman
child?
	Do not ask me that formula, if you please.
—how did our fore-mothers do thus and
so? I do not like to think of those strong
fresh-lived women of the long ago. The
contrast betwixt them and now is too great.
While the history of the past has handed
down to us ample proof of the nobleness in-
cidental to their time and day, and while we
glory in the knowledge thereof, the living
history of to-day is furnishing with equal
fidelity, the result of their comparative ig-
norance and inexperience. It is indisputa-
bly with this that we have most largely to
deal. Had those dear, old fore-mother's
understood the laws of re-action, as well as
they seemed to recognize a necessity for al-
ways constant action, our lines, I think, had
been cast in pleasanter places. As it is, a
weakened generation is before us. Shall
we then professing enlightenment, as we
do fail to profit thereby? Nay, let us bear
it perpetually in mind, that we too are fore-
mothers of the yet to be. Let us ask can-
didly, and earnestly, one of the other, "Is
there any surer way of blessing our children
than by providing that their mothers be
blessed before them?" Aye, let us look well
at this question which has come up before
us, and thank God that it is not remediless;
for aside from the drunkenness of our na-
tion, no wrong in existence calls more
loudly for amendment, than this same
hausehold slavery of women,
				MARY J. RICHARDSON.
	Lebanon, N. H.—Ex.


