				CHARITY.

	I wish to write some of my thoughts on
charity at the same time, I feel how incapa-
ble I am of doing it justice. It is said
"true charity thinketh no evil and is ever
kind." Charity like mercy, "droppeth like
the gentle rain from heaven, upon the place
beneath, and is twice blest, it blesseth Him
that gives and him that takes. It is
mightiest in the mightiest, it becomes
the throned monarch better than his crown."
I am afraid we do not have true charity at
all times. It does not consist merely in re-
lieving the immediate wants of the poor
and suffering and bestowing our means
with a liberal hand. This is only a part of
our duty. We may be charitable to the rich
as well as to the poor. Our funds often do
not permit us doing deeds of charity, but
we can all cultivate charity in our feelings
towards all mankind; and even had we
wealth to bestow, it would perchance be
scorned by some who would no doubt appre-
ciate words of sympathy and love from us
as priceless boons. We should be very care-
ful not to judge each other harshly, and be-
cause some one does what we think is not
quite right, say they have a bad heart and
their motives are evil. Remember that
God is the great Judge of all His children,
and His judgment is far superior to ours;
for His is righteous judgment. If we
know our friends are doing wrong we should
try with all our might to win them from
their evil ways, yet not speak much of their
faults to others unless it be to guard them
from error. Show a reverence for the aged
and never presume to speak lightly of them,
or ridicule their looks or actions, lest God


in justice should mete out the same to us
when we grow old. How pure and noble
we would be if we thought no evil, and how
much happier our lives and those of our
fellow beings would become. It is a good
rule not to speak anything of a person
which we would not like them to hear; if
we can say no good let us speak no evil;
and especially let us not suffer ourselves to
speak evil of those our Heavenly Father,
has chosen to lead us here upon the earth;
if we reverence the holy priesthood, we
prove our devotion to our Eternal Father
to whom we owe all earthly happiness.
Then let us cultivate and express true char-
ity in every thought and act of life.
				MARY STUART.
Hyde Park, June 2, '76.


