SLANDER.

	The subject of slander has been touched up-
on a great many times in our Relief Society
meetings in this place, and the baneful effects
of it have been vividly portrayed where the
people allow this spirit to get footing amongst
them. What is more bitter or poisoning in
its venom than the tongue of the habitual
slanderer? It is no respector of persons, but
hurls its venom on all alike; and wo to the
person that comes within the circle of its in-
fluence. If a story should happen to come to
the ears of one of this class concerning any
person or persons, that would be any way prej-
udicial to their character, it is grabbed at as
eagerly as a fish would grab at a bait, and
without pausing to see whether there was the
least foundation to the report, spread far and
wide with the quickest possible dispatch, nor
rests until every person within reach is well
posted with all the particulars and enough add-
ed to make it appear plausible, and all of
course swallowed eagerly by the majority of
people, without reflecting, perhaps it is not
true; and if inquiry should be made as to the
source of nine-tenths of the stories that are set
afloat by the vile slanderer, they originated in
nothing at all.
	Should we dear sisters encourage such a spir-
it among us? The Lord forbid. When a tale
is told concerning a person, that would be an
injury to them, let us not spread or repeat it,
until we are sure whether it has come from a
reliable source. If this course had always been


adopted, what untold misery and suffering
would have been saved to many innocent
hearts who have languished and pined beneath
the frowns and jeers of those who were per-
haps far beneath them in every virtue and
moral principle, that helps to constitute a good
reliable character. "Let those who are with-
out sin, cast the first stone," were the words
of our blessed Saviour, and what a happy
world it would be if we would all follow these
teachings. It is a duty we owe to our God, and
our fellow creatures; to encourage every good
principle, and put our foot on that which has
an evil tendency.
	That the Lord will help us to do so, is the
prayer of your sister in the Gospel.
								SARAH.
Pa[-]is, Bear Lake Co., Apr. 1st, 1876.


For the Exponent.
