WHAT IS DUTY?

	This one simple phrase, insignificant as it
seems, comprises much of happiness or sorrow
according to the interpretation given to it. To
fulfill all the obligations of life from childhood
upward is synonomous with duty, but can one
always be sure what is the first duty? An emi-
nent writer of the present day in answering
this question says; "It is to fulfill the claims
of the day;" but evidently there are a variety
of claims, or things which demand attention;
and there must be some relative decision
WHICH is the highest duty.
	In these days there is much said about the
wife's duty, the husband's duty, and one's duty
to society and to the public; it appears that per-
sons are often undecided in regard to the high-
est duty. There are those who are easily
guided by another's ideas of duty, such peo-
ple certainly lose sight of their own individ-
uality. Every rational being should endeavor
to comprehend for themselves wherein their
individual duty lies, and cultivate all the fac-
ulties God has imparted to them, for when
called to account for the sins of commission or
omission, what can it avail to admit another
pointed out the line of duty, and without call-
ing in the aid of the forces lying dormant in


the soul, submitted to the blind leading of an-
other, and thus proved false to the integrity
which it is due to every human being to main-
tain.
	The remark is frequently made "I know
my duty," yet how careless and indifferent
many are in the discharge of trifling duties, as
they are termed; but after all is it not these
minute details that make up the great sum of
existence here?
	If persons understood the relative duties per-
taining to the variety of circumstances inci-
dent to life and performed those duties care-
fully, then none would swerve from the path
of rectitude, and perfection would be the ulti-
mate result, but to choose between good and
evil, if it were easy to make the distinction,
would reflect little credit, though one chose
the better part; but to discern the true amid
falsity, to make the knowledge of duty one's
study is a sublime work; all duties are not
pleasant in their nature; some very brilliant
writers have said the fulfillment of duty
brings with it a sublime joy; there are certain-
ly many such instances, but while "darkness
covers the earth and gross darkness the minds
of the people" and there is no infallible guide
to duty, what remains? To do all the good
we can, to trust in God for the event, to learn
how to submit one's self to God, to perform
the mission He has assigned, is the height of
sublimity. To do one's duty independent of
the prevailing influences is indicative of true
nobility of character, and is the truest self-
denial.


