		THE TRUE MOTHER.

	The TRUE mother is a type in minature
of her own Great Father. It may appear a
bold assertion but when we realize her
character as it has been exhibited under all
the phases, circumstances, tests and trials,
it will be seen that the assertion is truth,
allowing that there must be an immense
disparity. The developed life of the moth-
er has never been traced upon any page, or
laid bare to any human eye, it is the "un-
written philosophy" of this sublunary state
of existence. No doubt it IS traced in all
its Divinity, in all its sublime endurance,
its self-abnegation, its eternal love, beauty,
devotion, yes, and in all its agonies—often
its crucifixion of the heart and brain upon
an immortal tablet; there, no doubt is traced
"the Martyrdom of Maternity." But all
mortal martyrdom has its encompassing
joys, its glories, and its honor. So is the
mother rewarded. Her love is her pro-
pelling power and her exceeding great re-
ward—it is the moving principle of every
thought and action, nothing can destroy it.
Cold neglect, harsh treatment, non-appreci-
ation, disobedience, ingratitude; these
wound, bruise, break, but cannot erase it.
Misfortune may befall her child, it may be-
come depraved and disgraced; all others
may despise and forsake, but there is ever
one whose heart is aching with its load of
woe and agony, whose tears are falling,
whose knees are bending, and whose heart
is sending up prayers that must be heard
even within the "Inner Temple of the King

[Column 2]
of the Universe;" whose arms cling stronger
even amid the ruins of her once cherished
hopes, her soaring ambition for the upward
progress of that being who is indeed "bone
of her bone and flesh of her flesh," and
whose spirit even is twin with hers in their
mysterious relationship! Note her noise-
less unsleeping watchfulness—yes that
which none but an Omniscent eye can weigh
and measure, her care to provide for every
want in infancy and childhood; to minister
to every necessity, feeding the body with
wholesome food, and mind with mental
sustenance, its heart and brain with love,
strength and endurance, day by day and
year by year; and when the trial of reproof
comes how she mourns in her inmost soul,
what violence does she not inflict upon her
own feelings—nothing but strong princi-
ple enables her to set aside her tender love,
and take the place of judge and inflictor;
but she dare not pass over an offense, which,
if indulged may create a growing power,
that may enroll her child as the coil of a
serpent and poison even the springs of life,
like the destroying Upas! Here comes the
trial, like her Savior, she goes away and
weeps, and prays for strength to do her
duty, that self-reproach may never sting
her. The child knows nothing of her sor-
row, the wringing of her heart, probably
thinks her harsh, unjust, unkind, almost
feels for the time to dislike her; but the
TRUE mother rises in the dignity of mater-
nity, and persists in her judicious sover-
eignty. Under the control and govern-
ment of SUCH a mother, law merges into
Order; peace and love are the Elements of
her kingdom, and she is the Planet Star of
that Orbit. Her children grow up under
her sweet influence, they go out into the
world, and carry it always with them, and
when in after life they organize homes for
themselves, it is still there, for it is woven
into the very woof of their life, it becomes
a part of their system; the children of such
a mother. "Rise up and call her blessed, her
husband also, and he praiseth her."
					HANNAH T. KING
S. L. City, May '76.


