HOME AFFAIRS.

	WE HAVE R. S. Reports from several places,
also other correspondence we are compelled to
lay over for want of space; but we intend to
publish them as soon as practicable. As our pa-
per is small and only issued semi monthly, we
have to be governed accordingly.
	PRESIDENT BRIGHAM Young and the party
with him, left St. George, Monday, June 12,
to meet the Arizona Party President D. H.
Wells, Elder Brigham Young Jr., and the oth-
ers who expected to arrive at Kanab, Thursday
(June 15) on their route homeward. President
Young's health has very much improved dur-
ing his absence. The accident to President
Wells and the brethren who were with him in
the boat when it sunk in the Colorado river,
would seem another strong testimony of the
interposition of Divine Providence in behalf of
His servants. This people should not forget
to acknowledge the goodness of God to them
in this peculiar incident, although at the sac-
rifice of one life. In the midst of circumstan-
ces such as this, one can but exclaim with him
of old; "Truly O God Thy ways are marvel-
lous and past finding out."
	WE HAVE received recently pleasant calls
from many of the strangers who have visited
Salt Lake City; persons of cultivation, polish
and refinement. Some editors and corres-
pondents of different papers, who seemed to
think our EXPONENT a very creditable Wo-
man's paper, although not approving of some
of the principles we advocate. To persons
expressing themselves thus, we invariably
make the same answer. We endeavor to ad-
vocate the principles in which we believe, and
practice what we teach; to express the opin-
ions of the women of Utah in regard to Wo-
man's capacity sphere of duty and use-
fulness, as regards not only temporal but spir-
itual salvation.


1876, Fourth of July; 1876, the Great Cen-
tennial Day, there will be a Ladies' Centenni-
al Excursion to Haight's Grove, Lake Side.
Trains leave this city at 8 o'clock a. m., re-
turn at 7 p. m. Tickets $1,00.
		Mrs. E. Davis,	}
		"	S. Str[-]ck,	}	Committee.
		Miss L. Davis.	}


