		BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

	         "Longing sublime and aspirations high."
	These few words will find a ready re-
sponse in the hearts of thousands. There
are few people surely but that have some-
times felt an undefinable if not a definite
longing to do something noble to attain to
some position worthy of merit, or respect,
if not  admiration. This inherent princi-
ple in human nature is a spark of divinity,
and properly exercised and controlled is
certainly a quality which would admit of the
highest cultivation. It is a human plant
and should have abundant care in the train-
ing; left wild, it would be an uncouth, ill-
shapen overgrowth, entirely unadapted to
human intelligences, but hedging it about
with graceful and appropriate shrubbery
and foliage and giving it the support of
some lofty and reliable object, it may devel-
op into something grand and sublime.
	Ambition may be compared to the lofty
heights of the stupendous mountains,
which look so grand in the distance, which
enchant and dazzle the beholder with the
golden and purple haze, and attract by
their bewildering splendor, and viewing
them with romantic imaginings one fancies
how easy would be the ascent, and fixing
the attention perhaps upon some specified
point, bend every energy to gain the al-
luring height. Perchance it seemed very
near at first, very easy of access and the
ambitious climber, thought a firm resolve
and determination to: persevere were guar-
antees of sure success, and all would be
smooth upon the route. Alas for the fal-
lacy of human schemes! The golden haze
that surrounded the desired point shed a
soft and glimmering glamour over the in-
tervening distance, and hid from sight all
questionable objects, and with light heart
and undoubting faith, the aspirant presses
forward, and ere long encounters hedges,
thorns, thistles, and sharp rocks to be pass-
ed over, and sometimes wounds are inflict-
ed by them, where the surface looked
smooth and flattering.
	Who could have thought, when the dis-
tance seemed so easy to determine, it would
take so much weary travel over rough
roads, and through deep mire, across wide
yawning chasms, and winding intricate
paths, and through narrow ravines, where an
incautious step would obstruct all future
progress in the desired route? Often upon
the weary pilgrimage do the tired feet al-
most miss their firm hold stumbling and fal-
tering for want of strength to perform the
laborious journey, advancing so immeasura-
bly slow that the courage slackens, and
doubts arise of the strength of endurance
to reach the goal.
	Whether climbing to gain the point for
honor, for popularity or wealth, or with
some more noble purpose in view, there are
similar difficulties to encounter; and after
having traveled far and long, and perhaps
wearied with the arduous struggle, the
mountains loom up as far in the distance as
at first, and no wonder that the many diffi-
culties to be overcome seem unendurable,
for it wants something like super-human
strength to conquer every obstacle.
	If there were not a "happy valley" here
and there scattered along the route where
one might rest and recruit and mingling
with kindred associations become renewed
and invigorated, none could ever have the
fortitude to scale the high mountains; but
these inspire the traveler with increased
vigor to advance, and now and then in the

[Column 2]
desert are fresh bubbling springs of living
water, that cool the parched lips, and with
which to lave the heated brows.
	Occasionally a real friend crosses the way
and the hearty welcome, the true encour-
agement, the prompt aid, so much needed
to cheer, to inspire and revive the waning
courage, is given in such sincerity that one
cannot but feel an infinite sense of grati-
tude and a more ardent desire to reach the
pinnacle for which they started.
	It is commendable to seek some perma-
nent good for the general welfare of the
human family. How insignificant and nar-
row to a noble mind is that person who is
so self-absorbed as to utterly ignore another's
progress, or pass their endeavors by with
scorn, or indifference, sometimes without
even according the civility of a recogni-
tion of heroism, courage or merit. How
encouraging to the weary traveler is the
friendly word the cheery smile, the hospit-
able welcome upon the dreary way. "Such
is life," pursue whatever path you may, you
tread the common earth, travel where oth-
ers have trod; the hills are rough alike for
all, it is common dust, and mire and herb-
age, and even should one reach the beauti-
ful mountain, would it possess the charm it
held out in anticipation? Would there be
rest and peace, or would one look back at
the beautiful valley below, where they
stood as boy or girl, with yearning heart
and admiring eyes, gazing forward into the
distance eager to join the chase for some
lofty ambition?
	S. L. City, May 23, 1876.


