PEN AND SCISSORS.

	To be borrowed without giving security.
Trouble.
	DEEP THINKERS: Visitors in a mine
wondering if they will get out alive.
	MARRIAGE is described by a French cynic
as a tiresome book with a very fine preface.
	WHY should every man wear a watch
when he travels in a desert? Because
every watch has a spring in it.
	THERE is no special style for engraving
engagement rings. A spider's web with a
fly in it, has been suggested as a pretty de-
vice.
	THE momentous question: Augustus; 'well
Emily, do you love me or do you not?" Em-
ily: "Well, if I say I don't I shall have to
return your present!"
	"THAT's what I call a finished sermon,"
remarked a man as he was coming out
of church. "Yes, finished at last," rejoined
his neighbor, "though I began to think it
never would be."
	A SEVERE RETORT: Soon after Lord
Sidney's elevation to the Peerage, he hap-
pened to observe in company, that authors
were very often ridiculous in the titles they
gave. "That," said a poet who was pres-
ent, "is an error from which even kings are
not exempt."
	A RECENT advertisement contained the
following startling information. "If the
gentleman who keeps the stove store with
a red head will return the umbrella of a
young lady with whalebone ribs and an
ivory handle, to the slate-roofed grocer's
store, he will hear of something to his ad-
vantage, as the same is the gift of a de-
ceased mother now no more with the name
engraved upon it.
	THE VARIETY OF DISEASES: "Disease is
very various" said Mrs. Partington, as she
returned from the street in company with
Dr. Bolus. "The Dr. tells me that poor old
Mrs. Hare has got two buckles on her lungs.
It is dreadful to think of, I declare. The
disease is so various. One day we hear of
people's dying with hermitage of the lungs;
another day of the brown creatures. Here
they tell us of the elementary canal being
out of order, and then about tonsors of the
throat. Here we hear of the neuology in
the head, there of embargo. On one side
of us we hear of men being killed by get-
ting a pound of tough beef in the sarcoph-
agus, and another kills himself by discover-
ing his jocular vein. Things change so that I
declare I don't know how to subscribe for
any disease now-a-days. New names and
new nostrils take the place of the old, and
I might as well throw my herb-bag away.


