NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE DEBATE of Woman Suffrage in Par-
liament in England, has relatively far great-
er importance than any Congressional vote
here, because the decision of Parliament
must decide the question for the whole
kingdom, and in this country it is distribu-
ted and decided by Legislatures in the dif-
ferent states. This Bill is not only for Suf-
frage but to extend to such women as vote
in municipal elections, the right also to vote
for members of Parliament. Mr. John
Bright's speech in Parliament on this Bill
has called forth criticism from all persons
interested in the subject, and the Woman's
Journal says, "There is many a humble
home in England and America, where his
picture heretofore honored, will henceforth
be turned to the wall. Since Webster's 7th
of March speech there has been no down-
fall so conspicuous; and Whittier's grand
poem of "Ichabod," seems its only fitting
lament. The liberal press of England and
Scotland are profuse in their criticisms,
many of them very cutting and pointed.
There are many things which tend to prove
that public sentiment is with the extension
of Woman's Suffrage." One thing particu-
larly encouraging to those who are anxious
the Bill should pass, is that one half of the
minority are new members. It is not to be
supposed because the Bill has been rejected
that it will never pass. "In the Parliament
of 1841, Mr. Charles Pelham Villiers, asked
again and again that the Corn Laws might
be repealed, and over and over again the
House of Commons rejected the proposi-
tion. But in the year 1846 the same House
of Commons that had refused to listen to
him, passed a measure repealing the Corn
Laws." Mr Forsyth in his speech in the
house, moving the second reading of the
Bill said there had been no single meeting
against the principle of the Bill, but on the
contrary in favor of it crowded meetings
had been held in every large town in Eng-
land, Scotland and Ireland, and resolutions
by large majorities in favor of the Bill have
been enthusiastically adopted.

	THE WOMAN'S meeting in Boston closed
its session in May to open again in Novem-
ber. This association has for its object
more particularly "the unfolding of the aes-
thetic and spiritual elements of human na-
ture, than the mere literary and scientific,
though these are by no means ignored."
Reading the last sentence reminds us forci-
bly that these meetings of the Boston wo-
men are very similar to the organizations of
the women of Utah, the chief aim and ob-
ject of which is the higher cultivation of
the spiritual nature, though the physical,
moral and mental elements are not lost
sight of.


AN old detective at Troy says: "If I de-
sired to train my son for a detective, I
would first make him a newspaper reporter,
that beyond any other business is the busi-
ness that makes stupid men smart, ordinary
men able, and capable men brilliant; and
what an experienced reporter cannot detect
is not worth detecting."


