					C. P. VILLIERS.

	"To Miss Lydia Becker."

	She said no one would suppose for a mo-
ment that an adverse vote from the House
of Commons would convince any woman
who made this claim as a matter of justice
that the claim was unjust. Not all the elo-
quence of all the most eloquent ment who
ever lived could persuade an intelligent,
patriotic woman, that she had no right to
vote, if she possessed the legal qualifica-
tions, no more than it could persuade her
that she had no right to be educated if she
could pay the fees, or to sit down to dinner
if she could pay the bill. (Cheers.) She de-
manded no more than was contained in the
Bill introduced by Mr. Forsyth, and she
thought they were entitled to that.
	Mr. Cowen, M. P., supported the resolu-
tions, remarking that although they might
not be successful for years, their cause
would in the end triumph. Women's Suf-
frage would be sure to favor peace, econ-
omy and temperance. (Hear, hear.)
	Miss Cobbe said, indirectly the giving of
the vote to women, would make even bru-
tal men have more respect for them, etc.

	She believed that the granting of suffrage
to women was no less expedient for men
than it was just for women, and that it
would redound to the happiness, virtue and
honor of the country.
	After a few words from Mr. Hinde Pal-
mer in support of the resolution, an amend-
ment was proposed declaring that it was ex-
pedient and wise to allow the law to remain
as it is; but it was lost, and the original res-
olution carried by a large majority.
	Miss Sturge moved the second resolution
as follows:—"That this meeting hereby ex-
presses its earnest thanks to Mr. Forsyth,
Mr. Jacob Bright, Dr. Ward, Mr. Fawcett, Sir
Robert Anstruther, and Sir Charles Legard
for introducing and supporting the Women's
Disabilities Removal Bill; also to the 161
Members of Commons who voted or paired
in its favor in the division on the second
reading of the measure on the 26 of April,
1876, and respectfully requests Mr. Forsyth
and his coadjutors to take steps for the re-in-
troduction of the Bill at an early period next
session."
	Mr. O'Shaughnessy, M. P., seconded the
motion, which was supported by Miss Tod,
and carried.
	The chairman was thanked for presiding,
and the meeting broke up."


