					ANNIE IRONS, Sec'y.

			VIRGIN CITY, May 7th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	According to the counsel of Sister Eliza
R. Snow, the young sisters of Virgin City
have lately been organized into a Young
Ladies' Retrenchment Association under
the guardianship of the Relief Society.
On the second day of March, 1876, the
young sisters were called together, and were
organized with the following officers:
	Mrs. Mary Ellen Steele, President,
	"	Gabriella Willis,		}
	"	Elizabeth Campbell,	} Counselors
	Miss Wealthy Richards,	}
	"	Medora Owens,		}
	"	Lucinda Stratton, Secretary.
	"	Eleanor Jepson, Assistant Secretary.
	We meet together once a week, and we
are pleased that our members are very
punctual to attend meetings. There are
about thirty families here, and we have
thirty-two members already belonging to
our Association. We are pleased to say
that our Association is in a very prosperous
condition. The principal objects of our
meetings are to cultivate the minds and
talents of the young Daughters of Zion.
We cannot say that we ought to retrench
from following the foolish fashions of the
world; we have no such vices, styles and
fashions in our quiet little town, as abound
in large towns and cities. We are gratified
with the rapid progress of our young sisters
since the organization of our Association.

[Column 2]
We have acted upon the advice of Presi-
dent Brigham Young and have ceased all
round dancing, and close our parties at ten
o'clock. We have a more punctual attend-
ance at our Sabbath School, and we are con-
stantly striving to qualify ourselves as be-
cometh the daughters of Zion. Our advice
to the young sisters everywhere would be
to cease following the vain fashions of the
world, and attire themselves neatly and
with becoming simplicity; cultivate refine-
ment of manner and person, and strive to
have the Spirit of God for guidance.
	We remain as ever, your sisters in the
Gospel,
				LUCINDA STRATTON,
				ELEANOR JEPSON,
							Secretaries.

		TOKERVILLE, April 30th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Relief Society is in a flourishing con-
dition; I can truly say our associations have
united us together. Although we have
not much means we are rich in spirit, blest
with health, kind hearts and willing hands,
that are ready to help build up the kingdom
of God. We received a visit from Sister E.
S. Barney last November; she gave us very
good instruction, but her visit was short.
Our young ladies have not yet been organ-
ized as a Retrenchment Society; I think if
they would read the EXPONENT and see
the good feeling that prevails among the
young sisters that belong to those associa-
tions they would not be at all backward, but
would wish for an organization. Our young
people manifest a good spirit in attending
Sabbath meetings and Sunday School. Our
Relief Society was re-organized January
15, 1876, with the following named officers:
	Elizabeth Kleinman, President.
	Mary Forsythe,	} Counselors.
	Ann Savage,		}
	Sarah A. Spilsbury, Secretary.
	Adelaide Savage, Treasurer.
	May God bless the EXPONENT and all
those who are interested in its welfare, is
our earnest desire. Hoping I may say
something at another time that will be of
more interest to your readers,
			Yours respectfully,
			S. A. SPILSBURY, Secretary.

