[Vol27 | August 1940 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Article | Title: Getting A Share of the Culmsee]

Then she understood who really cared what Judith did, and she could go to sleep. Getting A Share of the Great Heritage of Poetry Carlton Culmsee Half a millennium has crept by since Gutenberg began printing with movable type. But a cloud hangs over the five hundredth anniversary of printing, for the nations of Gutenberg and Caxton, both great early printers, are at war with each other; and the torrent of propaganda from the presses is almost as harmful as the black hail from the skies. The first half of the Printing Millennium has brought remarkable mechanical facilities.
Will the second half bring a sane application of them? It will—if we can breed a race of human beings whose minds are noble and whose emotions are disciplined. One way to rear lofty-minded men and women is to nourish children's minds upon the greatest thoughts of all time, upon ideas and emotions wrought to highest strength and beauty by the best poets. By "best poets' I do not mean exquisite poseurs juggling daintily with words or human "sensitive plants" sighing in ivory towers, but poets as strong and sound in their view of life as in their literary art; poets in the sense in which the old Hebrews used the word, when it was synonymous with prophets.
Thanks to printing, such poets are probably in your home now, ready to enrich all the family.
They can turn a receptive mind into a gallery of magnificent images and thoughts. Also, as "the unacknowledged legislators of the world," they can help discipline and direct the impulses and emotions. But in this age that is over-proud of being "practical," the question arises: How can a love of the highest poetry be cultivated?
Here are a few suggestions: First, begin early; begin to cultivate this taste in your child while he is in infancy.
Then it is more likely to grow deep roots, and to live a long, robust life. It will not have the sometimes sickly tinge of the late-acquired, the reluctantly dutiful, the half-convinced.
Repeat choice passages to the child in arms, as you would sing a lullaby. As time goes on, jewelled phrases and images, even occasional couplets and stanzas, will cling in his mind and will be treasures for life. True, they will not yield up all their meaning until they are illuminated by experience, but they will offer him beauty of melody and rhythm and may serve him as touchstones and standards of excellence. Second, begin with the right materials. A child, of course, is not a 'little adult"; but poetic passages of simple, strong beauty are preferable to mental baby food prepared by mediocre minds. The music of well-matched words is delightful, and rhythm is one of the most fundamental and engrossing elements of life; it beats time in the rising and setting of the sun and the moon, in the lapping of waves, in the shuffling of feet in a dance, in the pulsing of the blood.
Both the harmony and rhythm of