[Vol27 | August 1940 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field Secretary-Treasurer]

Today I bake a caramel cake, I clean a cottage through; I dream my dreams in tiny seams And broil a steak for two, Notes
FROM THE FIELD
Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer Wherever the name does not readily indicate the geographical location of the stake or mission, the location of its headquarters is designated in parentheses.
Regulations governing the submittal of material for ""Notes from the Field" appear in the Magazine for April, 1940, page 275. Activities Incident to the Membership Die Uintah Stake (Vernal, Utah) T the beginning of the year's work in 1939-40, the Uintah Stake Board offered a prize to the ward gaining the highest percentage of new members.
This was won by Jensen Ward which recorded a gain of 40 per cent during the year and received its award on "achievement day," June 25, which was also the occasion of the stake's annual Relief Society outing.
This stake, of which Mae T.
Johnson is Relief Society president, emphasizes attendance and activity as well as increased enrollment, evidence of which is seen in the accomplishments of three of the wards cited below. By the close of the season, the Ashley Ward in this stake. Had 100 per cent of its eligible women enrolled in Relief Society?there were 52 women in this ward and 52 enrolled in the Relief Society, and nearly all of them were active or honorary members. The accompanying picture is of the 47 women in attendance at the Ashley Ward Relief Society work-and-business meeting, June 10, 1940.
Other wards in the stake have also made gains in membership, and the stake is well on its way toward the goal of one-third increase over the 1937 membership by. The end of 1941. The stake board also offered an award at the beginning of the 1939- 40 season to the ward having the largest number of officers in attendance at union meetings. Two wards, Jensen and Vernal Second, both reached the same high mark, and each received one-half dozen copies of the new Relief Society Song Book as an award. ASHLEY WARD RELIEF SOCIETY, UINTAH STAKE North Sanpete Stake (Mt. Pleasant, Utah) THE picture opposite shows the membership arch of the Spring City Ward, the four executive officers, and the two membership coordinators. Coordinator Emma Jensen stands at the left of the arch, in front of LaVee Draper, secretary-treasurer, and Grace B. Allred, second counselor; at the right of the arch are coordinator Aurelia Madsen with Manett Allred, first counselor, and Bergetta Jensen, president, behind her. The arch was planned and painted by Max Blain. An unusual feature of this arch is the scrolls appearing on the Fairview each block, and bearing the names of all the members of this Relief Society from its beginning in 1868.
These names were compiled by the two coordinators, and all the scrolls were prepared by James W. Blain, including the inscnibing of the 1220 names which they contain. The names of all the new members enrolied during the four-year drive, 1938-41, will be placed in the keystone at the top of the arch. The picture in the center of the page shows participants in a candlelighting ceremony held at an annualday program in March of this year by the combined Fairview wards. MEMBERSHIP ARCH Spring City Ward, North Sanpete Stake On this occasion, the young women who had joined the Relief Society during the 1939-40 season lighted their candles from the lighted candles representing experience, development, achievement, etc., held by the oldest Relief Society members of their wards CANDLE-LIGHTING CEREMONY Conducted by Combined Wards of by. A chorus of Singing Mothers contributed to the lovely effect and significance of this ceremony. Ruby S.
Jensen is president of the Relief Society of the North Sanpete Stake, in which these wards are located. Liberty Stake (Salt Lake City) THE membership arch of Liberty Stake, pictured on the next page, is rotated among the various wards in 554 recognition of accomplishment in the membership drive.
According to the president, Emma G. Phillips, the ward with the highest percentage of attendance during the preceding month, plus one point for every new member enrolled during that month, receives and displays the arch for one month. The following excerpts are from a statement on the "Meaning of the Arch" written by Henry Fetzer, the designer of the arch: "In broad terms the membership drive is not merely to increase the membership but to accomplish the vast spiritual job of "building Latterday Saint women' and to serve mankind joyfully in ever widening fields. The Relief Society goes hand in hand with the Priesthood in helping in the Lord's work of saving and exalting all of mankind, Every part of the work is characterized by loftiness of purpose. Thus, the unusually tall proportion. Of the arch symbolizes the vastness of the Gospel in the way it transcends anything earthly. 'The desire is to give the impression of that which soars heavenward to eternal and infinite heights, symbolizing the power of the Gospel to lift the spirit of man to eternal and infinite joy and advancement. As the column of stone defies the force of gravity, so the vertical line, interpreted in the proportions of the arch, represents strength and victory over opposing forces which would draw us downward. The broadness of the base and steps symbolizes the never ceasing appeal to all mankind and the invitation to partake freely of the blessings and joys of the Gospel. The immense stones used in the arch symbolize the tremendousness of the righteous and loving efforts of the sisters in the Gospel.
They have MEMBERSHIP ARCH Liberty Stake  builded with good works and willing sacrifice, through which they have accomplished mighty things, both spiritually and materially. The first stone laid in the building of the arch is its cornerstone.
This stone was laid in the accomplishments, under the inspired plan as outlined by the Prophet Joseph Smith, of the handful of women of the first Relief Society organization. In a structural arch the great keystone is the last stone set in place binding the whole together and giving it final strength and solidarity. So the whole arch, in another sense, symbolizes the organized strength of many women as a teal power for good in the world.
Spirituality is represented by the pure white of the arch. As the pure white light is the medium whereby we see all color so also does spirituality open our minds and souls to see all truths in every field of God's universe and empowers us to appreciate them to the full depth that our souls NEW RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS IN PORTLAND STAKE WITH MEMBERSHIP COORDINATORS AND STAKE BOARD (Seated to right of table are: Ann P. Nibley, Relief Society president of Northwestern States Mission, and Clarice G. Sloan, Relief Society president of Portland Stake) are capable. The gold and blue of the base represent the material daily efforts in the tasks we are continually called to do during this earthly sojourn, which form the solid base and soil for the eternal growth of spirituality.
Even as the steps, so puny in comparative size, nevertheless support the arch, even so our small daily efforts form the basis for vast spiritual works, the final import of which we only dimly envision now." Portland Stake (Oregon) THE Portland Stake Relief Society Board sponsored a membership party in May, honoring the fifty-four new members enrolled in the Society during the 1939-40 season from the ten wards in the stake.
Perhaps the most outstanding feature of the evening's program was the candlelighting ceremony in which each new member participated. The first candle, representative of the stake, was lighted by Clarice G. Sloan, president of Portland Stake Relief Society, as she opened the ceremony with words which struck the theme of the occasion?a new day of radiance in the lives of the new members?and emphasized the symbolism of the candle-lighting. Next, a ward coordinator lighted one of the large candles, representative of a ward, as she presented the new members from her ward. Then, each of these new members lighted a smaller candle in turn, each repeating a different pledge. The ceremony was continued until the coordinator of every ward had presented her new members and each had given her pledge and lighted a candle to strengthen the radiance of the new day in their lives. A tribute to new members followed the ceremony, and each was presented with a booklet commemorating the occasion. The cover of the booklet, printed in Relief Society colors, blue and gold, bears an appropriate title, "On the Threshold of Abundant Living."
Included in the contents is a copy of the article, "The Radiance of a New Day" by Joseph Quinney, Jr., which appeared in the Relief Society Magazine for
556
August, 1936, and which inspired the candlelighting ceremony. A nice feature of the booklet is the list of names of all the new members, arranged in groups according to wards; with each ward group the names of its ward Relief Society president and membership coordinator also appear in recognition of their interest and effort in the membership campaign. The accompanying picture, taken at the candle-lighting ceremony, is of new members, coordinators, and the stake board.
Nampa Stake (Nampa, Idaho)
MEMBERSHIP growth in Nampa Stake is recorded on a large "wheel," designed by the stake membership coordinator, Bardella Rasmussen. The "wheel" is a blue disc, three feet in diameter, divided into six segments by six gold-colored
 
spokes. Each segment represents one of the six wards of this stake, and is filled in with stars representing the members of the Relief Society. In each ward's section is one gold star for each member of the ward Relief Society who was enrolled prior to the beginning of the present membership drive, and a red star for each new member enrolled during the course of the drive. The wheel is prominently displayed at each union meeting, and it is at these meetings that the red stars are added. Thus, the wheel becomes an effective graphic chart which shows at a glance the relative size of each ward Relief Society, and the location and extent of the gains in membership within the various wards of the stake. Minnie L. Rose is president of this stake Relief Society.
Excerpts From Documentary History of the Church, Vol. 5, Written by the Prophet Joseph Smith (Selected by Marianne C. Sharp)
"BROTHER SHEARER inquired the meaning of the 'little leaven which a woman hid in three measures of meal.' I replied it alluded expressly to the last days, when there should be but little faith on the earth, and it should leaven the whole world; also there shall be safety in Zion and Jerusalem, and in the remnants whom the Lord our God shall call. The three measures refer directly to the Priesthood, truth springing up on a fixed principle to the three in the Grand Presidency, confining the oracles to a certain head on the principle of three" (p. 207).
"... Nay, the world itself presents one great theater of misery, woe and distress of nations with perplexity. All, all, speak with a voice of thunder, that man is not able to govern himself, to protect himself, to promote his own good, nor the good of the world. It has been the design of Jehovah, from the commencement of the world, and is his purpose now, to regulate the affairs of the world in His own time, to stand as a head of the universe, and take the reins of government in His own hand. When that is done, judgment will be administered in righteousness; anarchy and confusion will be destroyed, and 'nations will learn war no more'" (p. 63).