[Vol27 | August 1940 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Guide | Title: Social Service: Education for Family Life - Family Relationships Lesson 2: Long-Time Vision of Family Life]

Social Service
EDUCATION FOR FAMILY LIFE
Family Relationships
Lesson 2
Long-Time Vision of Family Life (Tuesday, November 26)
WHEN war and rumors of war become prevalent throughout the nations of the world, as is the condition today, hazardous changes come along with such upheaval that habits, mores, and institutions are subjected to a stress and strain that rush them from their moorings and often leave them so modified that millions of men and women must change the routine of their lives and adjust to new conditions of living. When a nation is faced with the necessity of turning its attention and efforts toward preparedness and defence along military lines, there is a danger that it may, temporarily at least, lose sight of the fundamental importance of its social institutions; this is particularly true with respect to the family.
Many of the changes that are forced upon us prove to be advantageous for our growth and progress; but, on the other hand, great gains that have been made during past generations are completely lost, or require a setback that may require generations to overcome. Many of the mores are replaced by hedonistic life adjustments on a short-term basis. This is particularly obvious among the mores that have to do with the family.
The preservation of values, to serve as the social heritage of future generations, can be greatly aided by developing power of vision on the part of individuals and groups, and through the practice of long-time planning for the life of the individual as well as for the life of the group.
During the last half century our attitude toward life has been consistently turning more and more toward the opportune philosophy. We have been more concerned with getting things done than with the consequences of what we do. We have been interested in what the family, the church, or other institutions, what life itself has to offer as a reward for today, rather than in the rewards of tomorrow; and the reward that makes the strongest appeal is the one which comes in the nature of immediate pleasures. This attitude toward life in general has penetrated our attitudes toward family life to the extent that it is not uncommon today to find persons who lend a listening ear to that small group who predict no future for the institution of the family.
Any nation that is sincerely concerned with the building up of national defense mechanisms and agencies can well afford to turn attention to its family life, both for the present and for the future.
Does the future of the family, as our primary social institution, warrant the necessary time and effort required to train and educate for vision and long-time planning? We quote Groves: "If the question, 'What is to be the future of the family?' means whether it is to continue, the answer must be that it is as secure as the human race itself.... So long as the generations of mankind come and go, there must be the perpetuation, in some form, of family activities and values, since there is nothing to indicate that the evolutionary process can go into reverse and finally wipe out the extension of the infancy period which gave man his opportunity and his culture.... The destiny of the family and of the human race are inseparably tied together so far as the future is concerned."
For members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints the future of the family means more than it can possibly mean to any other group of people. To those who are united in the holy bonds of matrimony in our temples, it means family life throughout all eternity. With such a belief, the pertinent question before us is not, "Shall we consider the long-time plan?" but rather, "How shall we go forward in our program of long-time planning for the family?"
The source of our greatest hope lies in our ability to offer to every young man and young woman an opportunity for education and training for marriage and parenthood, and also to provide for those who are married every possible means of assistance in solving their problems as
¹Ernest R. Groves, The Family and Its Social Functions, pages 597-98.