[Vol27 | August 1940 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Article | Title: Fiction]

fiction: it is a monument to painstaking research in our history.
Above all it entertains through the struggle of humanity 'pulling through' against difficult, even dangerous odds." And that can be said of the novels of the other women writers here discussed. Furthermore, they are themselves all women with the idealism they portray in their novels. Some Literary Friends Florence Ivins Hyde III Diaries And Letters Two of the most unique forms of literature are found in diaries and letters.
Comparatively few diaries have been kept, and fewer still have fallen into the hands of publishers.
Those of people of importance which have reached the public have furnished interesting facts of history as well as sidelights on the personalities of the writers. Diary-keeping is a modern custom.
None has been found which dates farther back than the 16th century.
Only two diaries of English sovereigns are available to us—those of Edward VI and Queen Victoria. The diary of Edward is very formal in its style, although it was begun before he was twelve years of age.
Just before his death, at the age of sixteen, he wrote in his diary, "I fell sick of the measles and smallpox."
Wherever he wrote the word "Me" he used a capital "M," perhaps because he felt the importance of his position. The diary of Queen Victoria was begun at the age of thirteen.
Until her death at the age of eighty-two, she made daily entries, filling more than one hundred volumes, an almost unbelievable accomplishment. She said she formed this habit because she considered it her duty. Her diary is not too interesting, but it portrays in detail her domestic life, her court life, and her personality. We feel her enthusiasm for simple things, and how lacking she was in pretense.
When only sixteen, she wrote: "I love to be employed. I hate to be idle." Her character gave us the much used term, "Victorian."
Quite different in style is the diary of Fanny Burney, the English author of the early novel "Evelina." She was a real diarist. She had an unusual facility for expression and wrote because she "couldn't help it." Her education in music and the fashionable society in which she grew up lend an unusual charm to her diary.
Most of the published diaries are those of people of prominence.
Expecting that they might be published, many such people write only what they want known. It is the diaries of obscure people which are most valuable; for example, those of our parents and grandparents, written not for the public but as a vent for their emotions or out of a desire to keep a scrapbook of events as they occurred.
Great people write of great events, but it is the obscure person who puts in his record what he has for dinner, when he used his first toothbrush, why he has his particular religious convictions, and other intimate things which give a realistic picture of the writer. The bad grammar and sometimes poor spelling of our grandparents in no way detract from the merits of their diaries. On the contrary, such things add to their value. Let us preserve these old records exactly as they were written. 526
Letters may not be quite as spontaneous as diaries, for they are written with the knowledge that they will be read by someone else. However, they form an interesting type of literature. We find fine literary flavor in the letters of such famous people as James Russell Lowell, Charles Lamb, Lord Tennyson, Robert Louis Stevenson, William James and others.
There is no finer reading for young people than the letters of Hans Christian Andersen, of Victor Hugo, of Martin Luther. And those of Phillips Brooks, published as A Year of Travel in Europe and India, written to his niece Gertie, would make geography an interesting study. Phillips Brooks, the great preacher, had no children of his own; but his love for children led him to write charming letters to his nieces. A book has recently been published of the letters of Lewis Carroll.
Those who are fond of Alice in Wonderland will find a new friend in Lewis Carroll—a friend with a distinctly interesting personality. We reproduce here three charming letters of famous men. The letter of Martin Luther to his son Hans, which gives us his religious philosophy, was written more than 300 years ago, yet it has never grown old and is still beautiful.
Notice the punctuation and lack of paragraphing. Luther's Letter to His Son Hans, Aged Six Grace and peace in Christ, my dear little son. I hear with great pleasure that you are learning your lessons so well and praying so diligently.
Continue to do so, my son, and cease not. When I come home I will bring you a nice present from the fair, I know a beautiful garden, where there are  a great many children in fine little coats and they go under the trees and gather beautiful apples and pears, cherries and plums; they sing and run about and are as happy as they can be.
Sometimes they ride on nice little ponies, with golden bridles and silver saddles. I asked the man whose garden it is, "What little children are these?" And he told me, "They are little children who love to pray and learn and are good." When I said, "My dear sir, I have a little boy at home; his name is Hans Luther; would you let him come into the garden, too, to eat some of these nice apples and pears, and ride on these fine little ponies, and play with these children?" The man said, "If he loves to say his prayers and learn his lessons, and is a good boy, he may come; He then showed me a beautiful mossy place in the middle of the garden with a great many golden fifes and drums and silver crossbars. The children had not yet had their dinner, and I could not wait to see them play, but I said to the man, "My dear sir, I will go away and write all about it to my little son John, and tell him to be fond of saying his prayers, and learn well and be good, so that he may come into this garden; but he has a grand-aunt named Selme, whom he must bring with him." The man said, "Very well: go write him." Now my dear little son, love your lessons and your prayers, and tell Phillip and Jodocus to do so, too, that you may all come to the garden. May God bless you. Give Aunt Selme my love and kiss her for me.
Your dear father, Martinus Luther. In the year 1530, (Coburg, June 19th) Note the bigness of the heart of Victor Hugo.
Letter of Victor Hugo to His Daughter Didine Good morning, my pet; good morning, my dear little girlie. I promised to write to you. You see I am keeping my word. I have seen the sea, some fine churches, and some pretty country. The sea is large, the churches are handsome, the country is pretty; but the country is not as pretty as you, the churches are not as handsome as your mama, and the sea is not as great as my love for you all. My pet, I have often given half-pence to SOME LITERARY FRIENDS poor children walking barefooted by the roadside for your sakes, my little ones. I love you dearly. A few hours more and I shall be kissing you on your two dear little cheeks, and also my big Charlie and my little Dede, who will give me a smile, I hope, and my beloved Toto.
Goodbye for the present, my Didine.
Keep this letter.
When you are grown up, I shall be old, you will show it to me, we shall love each other dearly; when you are old, you will show it to your children, and they will love you as much as I do. We shall soon meet.
Your own Daddy. The imaginative nature of Hans Christian Andersen could not be kept out of his letters.
Letter of Hans Andersen to a Little Friend Dear Little Marie:— Pappa and mama can read this letter to you, as you cannot read it yourself yet; but only wait till this time four years; ah, then you'll be able to read everything. I know. I am in the country now like you.... It is so nice, and I have had some strawberries, large, red strawberries, with cream—Have you any? One can taste them right down in one's stomach. Yesterday I went down to the sea... And sat upon a rock by the shore.
Presently a large white bird that they call a gull came flying along. It flew right toward me, so that I fancied it would have stopped me with its wings; but, mercy on us, it said, "Mamaree!" "Why what's the matter?" I asked. "Mamaree!" it said again, and then, of course, I understood that "Mamaree" meant Marie. "Ah," said I, "then you bring me a greeting from Marie, that's what it is, eh?" "Ya-ya! Mamaree," Mamaree," it said. It couldn't say it any better than that for it only knew the gull language, and that is not very much like ours. "Thanks for the greeting," said I, and off flew the gull.
After that, as I was walking in the garden, a little sparrow came flying up. "I suppose you now have flown a long way?" said I. "Vit, vit," (far, far,) it said. "Did you see Marie," I asked. "Tit, tit, tit," (often, often, often) it said. "Then give my greeting to Marie, for I suppose you are going back?" I said. "Lit, lit," (a little, little), it replied. If it has not come yet, it will come later on but first I'll send you this letter. You may feed the little bird, if you like, but you must not squeeze it. Now greet from me all good people, all sensible beasts and all the pretty flowers that wither before I see them. Isn't it nice to be in the country, to paddle in the water, to eat lots of nice things, and to get a letter from your sweetheart. H. C. Andersen.
With all the changes that have taken place in the last 150 years, this letter of a Quaker father to his son, is still filled with sound advice, particularly the N. B.
Which reads, "Take care of the little money thee has for thee will find that to be a friend where all others have forsaken thee." To Isaac Shreve From His Beloved Father Alexandria, 29th, the 5th month, 1794. Dear Son Isaac: Thee is now going from under the care of thy loving father, whose eyes have been ever watchful for thy good, into the wide world.
Thee will be now under the care of Captain Very, who will advise thee for thy good and I would wish thee to be advised by him. I have thought it most for thy good for thee to go to Salem to learn the trade of a tanner. If Captain Very can get thee a place to suit, I would advise thee to stay; if not, come home by the first opportunity that offers. As thee will be among strangers, take good care how thee forms acquaintances. Let them be friends (meaning Quakers) if possible, and steady, sober lads, older than thyself, and the fewer, the better. A young man's happiness both in this world and that which is to come, in a great measure depends upon the connections he forms when young.
Keep steady to meeting and to plainness both in speech and apparel and the God that made us will protect thee from all harm.
Above all things, be true to thy trust and defraud no man though 528 the thing be small. But do unto men as thee would that they should do unto thee. And by so doing, thee will gain the esteem of all good men and thy master and come up in the world a useful member of society.
Thee will have peace in thy own mind which cannot be taken away but by actions which I hope thee will not be guilty of. If I should be spared to live until thee comes of age, I am in hopes to be able to set thee up in thy intended business, so that by care and industry thee may soon get above the frowns of this world. But if I should be taken from works to rewards, thee may expect an equal share of what I leave behind me, provided thee conducts thyself in a sober, orderly manner, If thee agrees to stay, I shall send thee a certificate which thee must take to the monthly meeting. As there will be many opportunities, I would have thee to write often and let me know if thee stand in need of any  thing, and I will endeavor to furnish thee from time to time. I want thee to serve five years and a half.
Then thee will have some time in the winter which will give time for thee to prepare for settling thyself in the spring following. I now recommend thee to that God that has protected me from my youth until this time (my father having died when I was about four years old). And I am sure He is the same Heavenly Father that ever He was and will remain to protect and preserve all those that love and fear Him.
From thy loving father Signed Bery Shreve. N. B.
Take care of the little money thee has for thee will find that to be a friend where all others have forsaken thee. I shall furnish thee with small matters of money according as I hear of thy behavior.
Often read this advice and endeavor to follow it. REQUITE O do not weep for me; I shall return When April looses blossoms from the bough With pink and gentle fingers. You shall learn My voice anew when rains fall soft; and how My hand will lie in yours, then lift your hair In brief but lingering caress—the way It used to do. And then I shall be there When moonlight in the garden follows day, Day so bright it seemed to mock your pain— But somber now; leaves move, a white moth dips; These roses painted pale are ours again, For I shall drink their breath, then kiss your lips. O do not weep for me; my love is yet So near your heart—my heart cannot forget. —Jessie J. Dalton.