[Vol27 | August 1940 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Guide | Title: Mission Lessons - Latter-day Saint Church History - Lesson XI: Happenings in Nauvoo]

Mission Lessons
LATTER-DAY SAINT CHURCH HISTORY
(To be used by missions in lieu of Literature, if so desired)

Lesson XI
Happenings in Nauvoo
(Tuesday, November 19)

IN ancient Arabia there was a sacred bird called phoenix. Its plumage was red and golden, and it resembled an American eagle. Every five hundred years, so the story goes, this bird left its native country, flew to Heliopolis, in Egypt, burnt itself on the altar, and then rose from its ashes younger and more beautiful than ever. The phoenix has become a symbol of the resurrection.

The Latter-day Saints of this period were like that.

You remember what happened to them in Missouri. Some of them were killed, others severely wounded, most of them were robbed of their property, and all of them were driven from the state. And then, to make matters worse, their leader, after being sentenced to be shot, was kept in prison for five and one-half months. Everybody, except the Saints themselves, thought that was the end of Mormonism.

You have seen, also, how the Prophet won his freedom, how he chose Commerce for the new home and changed its name, how he healed the sick on the river banks by the power of God, and how houses went up, a temple was planned, and a government was established.

But there was something back of this planning and building. What was it? It was the spirit of a people, the faith and hope of men and women—a spirit, a faith, a hope that could not be defeated by any adversity. Nauvoo, on its spiritual side, shows how the Saints, like the phoenix, rose from the ashes stronger and more lusty than ever.

WHAT strikes us most in this Nauvoo period of between five and six years is not the city nor the government nor the Legion nor the university nor the tremendous activity there, but rather the way in which the Church developed and spread. This is shown in two respects:

First, the missionary work was pushed with new vigor.

You may recall that the English mission grew out of the mission to Canada. That was in the Kirtland days. Now, after the expulsion from Missouri, it was decided to push the work in Great Britain. Seven of the Apostles were sent over the Atlantic to join Willard Richards, who had been left there to preside over the Saints. At the same time, Elder Orson Hyde was sent to Palestine to dedicate the land for the gathering of the Jews. It happened, then, that eight of the Apostles were in England at one time, and one in Palestine.

At this time in England there were thirty-four branches of the Church, with a total membership of sixteen hundred and eighty-six.

Then the eight Apostles went to work there. They met with great success. This was especially true in the part of England where Elder Wilford Woodruff labored. In a few weeks he baptized eighteen hundred persons, which more than doubled the Church membership there. Scores of these were preachers. In other parts of the country the Apostles met with encouragement. Before they returned home, they had increased the membership of the Church there to four thousand. Also, they had established a periodical, the Millennial Star, and published a large edition of the Book of Mormon.

Meantime, Orson Hyde had gone to Palestine alone. In October, 1841, he ascended the Mount of Olives and dedicated the land for the gathering of the Jews. Here, and later on Mount Moriah, he erected a pile of stones as a witness to what he had done. About this time, it is interesting to note, the spirit of gathering came upon that people; and now there are more than three hundred thousand Jews in Palestine. The land is under the protectorate of England.

BUT at home, in Nauvoo, a great deal was going on, too. The Prophet made known some important truths to the Saints. Much of this centered in the idea of home—home here and hereafter.

You may know that Christians generally believe that baptism is essential to salvation, just as Jesus said it is. But there have been millions of men and women who, while they lived on earth, did not hear of the Gospel. What was to become of them? If they could be saved without baptism, then baptism was not necessary for salvation; and, on the other hand, if it was necessary, then they would not be saved, no matter how much they deserved to be. Here was a strange dilemma.

Our Prophet, however, showed Christians the way out.

Man consists of a spirit and a body. The body is the house in which the spirit lives. The spirit existed before it entered the body, it exists in the body, and it will continue to exist after it lays down the body in death. It is the spirit, not the body, that thinks and acts and loves. It can do these things without the body. Hence, when a person dies, his spirit goes into the spirit world, where it goes on thinking and acting and feeling, just as it did in the flesh.

The Prophet said the Gospel is preached in this world of the spirit, just as it is in this world of the flesh. And the spirit is able there to receive or to reject the Gospel, as it is here. But there are certain ordinances, like baptism, that have to be performed in the body, since they cannot be performed in the spirit world. When, therefore, one of the spirits is converted to the Gospel there, someone must be baptized for him here.

This was not a new teaching. It was known to the ancient Saints and practiced by them. Paul says, "Else what shall they do which are baptized for the dead, if the dead rise not at all? why are they then baptized for the dead?" (1 Corinthians 15:29)

This work of baptism for the dead was done at first in the Mississippi River, after the doctrine was revealed to the Prophet. Later, when the temple there was finished, it was performed in that house. This is partly why the Latter-day Saints build so many temples.

Doing work for the dead, however, was not the only doctrine taught by the Prophet at this time.

You have probably observed that it is our human relationships that give us the most happiness here. Always we find people to love—parents, wives and husbands, and then children—and always our circle of friendships widen. Love is the greatest thing in the world. What would we do without our loved ones and our friends?

But these relationships are just as necessary to our happiness in the next world as they are here. That is what Joseph Smith taught. He could not derive any comfort from the notion so commonly accepted as true in other churches, that we shall not know one another in Heaven, nor care to know any one. On the contrary, he knew that our joys herecome from our knowing and loving other people.

It was during this period, then, that the Lord revealed the idea of celestial marriage. Celestial marriage is marriage for eternity as well as for time. You may know that in other churches a man and a woman are married till death parts them. That means that they will not be husband and wife in the hereafter. It is as if a ceremony were instituted by which a couple were married for, say, ten years; after the ten years were ended, they would not be married any more.

That is the way it is in other churches—they marry only for time. The reason, of course, is that the ministers do not have the authority to perform marriage ceremonies for more than this life.

Joseph Smith had that authority. It was given to him by the ancient Apostles, Peter and James and John, who had received it from Christ himself. And so, when he performed a marriage ceremony for eternity as well as for time, the man and the woman were married for the next world as well as for this world.

But that was not all. The children born of this marriage would be their children in Heaven as well as on the earth. In this way the race would be united there. And thus, people would find happiness in Heaven, instead of the misery of being alone.

This is what came of having divine Priesthood. The Lord not only gave the Prophet certain knowledge about the next life, but he gave him also the necessary authority to perform the ordinances of salvation for that life. You may remember reading that Jesus said to Peter, "I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven: and whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth shall be bound in heaven; and whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven." (Matt. 16:19.) These keys Peter gave to Joseph Smith.

That is why the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, alone, has the right to perform ordinances for time and eternity.

Questions

1. What was the condition of the Saints when they entered Illinois? What might be expected to happen to them?

2. What did happen to them? How do you account for this? What had Joseph Smith to do with all this?

3. Tell about the mission to England: first, the one in which the Gospel was introduced there, and then the mission during his Nauvoo period.

4. What has brought you the greatest happiness in this world? To what extent have other people contributed to your happiness? How can this happiness be continued in the next world?

5. What must you do to be happy in the next world? Why do the Saints build temples? Name them.

6. Explain why there should be baptism for the dead.

In connection with this lesson, read: Section 128, of the Doctrine and Covenants, baptism for the dead; Section 131, on celestial marriage; Section 133, on gathering; Section 135, on the martyrdom.

Note: Map printed in July, 1939, issue of the Magazine is to be used in teaching Church History lessons.