[Vol27 | August 1940 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Guide | Title: Visiting Teacher Messages to the Home: How We May Honor Priesthood in the Home No. 2 - Divisions of Priesthood—The Aaronic Priesthood]

Visiting Teacher MESSAGES TO THE HOME
How We May Honor Priesthood in the Home
No. 2
Divisions of Priesthood—The Aaronic Priesthood (Tuesday, November 5)
"Teach them (your children) to honor the authority that God has bestowed upon his Church for the proper government of his Church." (Gospel Doctrine)
THE Aaronic Priesthood is so called because "it was conferred upon Aaron and his seed, throughout all their generations." (Doc. And Cov. 107:13) In this day, it was brought to the earth by John the Baptist, who ordained Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery to the Aaronic Priesthood, May 15, 1829, near Harmony, Pennsylvania. "The power and authority of the lesser, or Aaronic Priesthood, is to hold the keys of the ministering of angels, and to administer in outward ordinances, the letter of the gospel, the baptism of repentance for the remission of sins, agreeable to the covenants and commandments." (Doc. And Cov. 107:20)
The offices of the Aaronic Priesthood are deacon, teacher and priest. A boy may be ordained to this Priesthood at the age of twelve. He receives first the office of deacon. When he is fifteen, if he has proved faithful to his duties, he usually is advanced to the office of teacher; at seventeen, he may become a priest. A deacon acts as a help to the bishop of his ward in many ways; such as, collecting fast offerings, cleaning meeting houses, acting as ushers at meetings and passing the Sacrament. A teacher may perform the duties of a deacon and also visit the homes of the Church members once a month to take a message from the bishop, to inquire as to conditions of people, and also to teach the Gospel. A priest may teach, preach, baptize and administer the Sacrament. He may ordain others to the Aaronic Priesthood. (See Doc. And Cov. 20:46-59)
Home Discussion Helps
To hold the Priesthood is a strength to a boy or young man if he honors it and holds it sacred. It helps him to overcome temptation and to live better. It affords through its activities and quorums opportunity for training in leadership, for intellectual and spiritual development.
"MORMONISM is strong because God is its author—the engineer directing its course—and all the might of Omnipotence is behind it, impelling it on to its destiny. It is the everlasting Gospel, the saving, glorifying power of God, the power by which He carries on His mighty and marvelous work, bringing to pass the immortality and eternal life of man."—Orson F. Whitney.