[Vol27 | August 1940 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Poem | Title: Poetry]
poetry may be enjoyed by the very young, and both will 518 cause the charmed mind to retain some of the messages that they carry. The argument that children should first be given literary baby talk has logic in it; it reflects a reaction to an old fallacy about a child's ability to understand. But it has led to a good deal of "talking down" to children. I am not disparaging simplicity, but the use of cheap nonsense of no conceivable value.
Musicians have, as a rule, a better appreciation of this problem; they know that a child does not unravel all the intricacies of a fugue, but they do not therefore sentence the youngster to listen only to the beating of a tomtom or to the trumpery-thumperies of Tin Pan Alley. Why not, for example, inculcate an early liking for the Bible through the reading of wisely selected brief bits from the Psalms or other scriptural poetry, read not in a sepulchral or ominous or mechanical way but in the fervent or joyous tone of chants of praise? The Bible, to be sure, offers difficulties. In some senses, Professor R. G.
Moulton believes, it is a most inappropriately arranged and printed book. In form, the verse in it has been sunk to the level of the prose.
Some of the best poems are unsuitably titled and others have no titles at all. A plane of uniformity has been achieved by leveling off the high points with a division of the material into verses and chapters. But fortunately, Hebrew poetry did not employ rigid metrical patterns, and it has been translated, with its devices of alliteration, antithesis, and parallelism, more successfully than have the classics of other languages.
When biblical poetry is judiciously arranged in free  verse form, to show the structure that the Hebrews intended, the beauty is enhanced and is more readily appreciated. Moulton's Modern Reader's Bible enables one to find the poetry and to read it as poetry, not as prose cut into often arbitrary paragraphs. For young children, the passages chosen should be very brief to match the shortness of a child's attention, should be concrete and strongly rhythmical, and should be repeated until they become familiar, for children delight in rhythmic repetitions, and they retain them. Why not also cultivate an early taste for Shakespeare?
There is abundant beauty in the great dramatist for youngsters if the poetry is properly presented.
