Training in the Most Important Aspects of Life
Being the largest private university in the intermountain region and also an institution of the Latter-day Saint Church, Brigham Young University is able to give balanced preparation for life. In scores of occupations, but this training is permeated by the principles and ideals of the Church. A new religion and social center is now being erected under the Church Welfare plan. It will provide splendid facilities which will greatly aid the faculty in caring for the religious needs of the nearly three thousand students.
Registration Dates | Autumn Quarter, 1940—September 20, 21, 23
For new catalog, address the President
Brigham Young University PROVO, UTAH | LIFES TESTS are the hours that call for sympathy and tender love
LARKIN MORTUARY LARKIN & SONS
260 East South Temple Was. 5132—Hy. 180
Telephone 821
LARKIN MORTUARY CO.
6003 Compton Avenue Los Angeles, California Jefferson 1244
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Not only does B. Y. U. Offer standard college work leading to success
Salt Lake City | 466 24th Street, Ogden
"rected in Grateful Remembrance..."
ea monuments are built purposely, of stone and bronze, to remind their beholders of incidents in the human drama. Other monuments are erected by toil and faith that are not intended to be monuments at all. A shaft raised to an event, a man, or even a bird, usually bespeaks someone's gratitude for help or deliverance from impending doom. A business, whether it be printing, automobile-building or the making of mouse-traps, whose survival is grounded on service and fair-dealing, is no less a monument, not alone to the founders of that business but also to the public appreciation which makes its continued existence possible. While we, in our business, are proud of the fact that our beginnings go back to pioneer days, we are equally proud of the part we have played in the development of the West, of the service we are able to render our customers by reason of keeping abreast of modern trends in the printing industry. May we serve you?
THE DESERET NEWS PRESS
29 Richards Street Salt Lake City, Utah
Nelma R. Bitter
As a stenographer in the offices of the Relief Society, Mrs. Bitter, daughter of Mrs. Rebecca Richardson, Mesa, Ariz., has proved the truth of the statement: 'LD. S. Training Pays!"
Ask us to explain how it can help YOU, tool
L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH
UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO.
"Relief Society Song Book Is Now Ready—The Price is 85c Per Copy—Post Paid
Address Orders to GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY 28 Bishops Building—Salt Lake City
Fishers DUTCH BREAD daily!
Popular Fisher's DUTCH BREAD is receiving enthusiastic acclaim for its appetizing. Delightful, taste appeal. Give yourself and your family a new taste thrill—take home a loaf next time you shop. Available at your grocers.
A Product of THE FISHER MASTER BAKERS
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine