GUIDE LESSONS 551 mon to those who gather to Zion. Saints all over the world, living hourly in anticipation of gathering, have sung this song many times before their desires became a realization, and no doubt many times after as their experience touched the sentiment of the hymn. Any poet who can be a poet of common experiences is destined to be popular; for this reason Henry W. Longfellow, James Whitcomb Riley and Edgar A. Guest have been and are popular. Eliza R. Snow has embodied in her verse the daily experiences of the Latter-day Saints, her people, and because she has done this she can not fail to be popular, among her people, just as long as those experiences repeat themselves in their lives. Her most exquisite hymn so far as poetry is concerned is, "O awake, my slumbering minstrel." No more beautiful hymn has been written than this, which is full of imagery and inspiration. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Define the words didactic, versatile and felicity. 2. Call to mind the lines of some sacrament hymn that plays upon the gruesome details of Christ's crucifixion, 3. Name hymns of Eliza R. Snow that might be used as sacrament hymns, as well as, "How great the wisdom and the love." 4. When you repeat the words "faithful ones of old," what do you call to mind? 5. What picture comes to you when you think of being "formed in virtue's mould?" 6. What are the "gems that never fade," that the author speaks about? 7. Select your favorite stanza from the hymn, "I'll serve the Lord while I am young." 8. Read to the class the hymn, 'The time is far spent," and give three reasons why you think it is a good missionary hymn. 9. Read the hymn, "Think not when you gather to Zion," and select three experiences that you think converts, coming to this country, are reasonably sure to have. 10. Which hymn of Eliza R. Snow's is your favorite? Why? 11. Explain the poetic beauties of, "Zion prospers all is well," ("O awake! My slumbering minstrel!"') 
 LESSON IV. _ Social Service (Fourth Week in November. ) JUVENILE DELINQUENCY. DEFINITION. In order that people may live together in peace and harmony society has established certain rules for the direction and control of conduct. A failure to live according to the rules which society has made tends to tear down societv. Delinquency is unsocial conduct or conduct in conflict with the rules of society. FACTORS IN CAUSING DELINQUENCY. In order that children may develop into social beings, years of training and discipline are necessary. To give this training and discipline, society has established social institutions,—the home, the school, the church and the state. Sometimes delinquency rsults from the failure of one or more of these institutions to properly function in the life of the child. Sometimes the institutions are functioning properly, but the child becomes delinquent because of physical or mental defects, which he has inherited or acquired. So it is said that delinquency may represent either the reaction of a normal child to disordered social conditions, or the reaction of a disordered child, to normal social conditions. The problem in each case is to determine whether the child itself needs attention or whether the child's envitonment needs modification, and the solution comes through brinoine the child back to normal, if possible, or in adjusting the environment to suit the child's needs. THE HOME AS A FACTOR IN DELINQUENCY. The home is the oldest of the social institutions and at one time included all the functions which are now exercised by the church, the school, and the state as well. It is the foundation on which these other social institutions are builded. It is the mest important of the social institutions in trainine the child in soéfal ' conduct, because the child is under its influence in the most impressionable years of its life. The influence of the home is more intimate than that of the other institutions. The failure of the home to properly function during the period of development of the child, when his character is unstable, often results in the development of permanent unsocial or delinquent traits. The records of the Juvenile Court of Salt Lake Citv, show that practically 40 per cent of the children before the court, for delin- GUIDE LESSONS 553 quency come from homes where the parents are separated or divorced, or one or both of the parents are dead. Doctor Healey of the Baker Foundation of Boston in the study of 1000 cases of juvenile delinquency concluded that defective home conditions were present as a factor in causing the delinquency in 65 per cent of the cases. The defect in the home may consist not only in the homes being broken, but also by reason of the failure of the home to provide the ordinary needs of life in the way' of income, food, shelter and clothing; by reason of bad sanitary and health conditions in the home; by reason of extremely crowded conditions in the home; by reason of a lack of harmony, moral character, religion or education of the parents; by reason of the failure of the parents to exercise a wise or fair control over the physical, mental or moral welfare of the child. Thus the defect may be in the physical or the spiritual aspects of the home, and to the ex-— tent that the home is deficient in these matters to that extent it is likely to fail in its function, with resulting delinquency. In order to carry out its function in the prevention of delinquency the home should teach the child at least these four things: first, love and sympathy; secondly, obedience; thirdly, property rights; and fourthly, co-operation. The child which has not felt the influence of love and sympathy in the home is likely to obey anti-social tendencies. The child which has not learned to obey parental ahthority is likely to disobey the law as he grows older. The child, who has not learned that he must respect the property rights of his brother and his sister and leave their things alone is likely to ke found engaged in petty thievery as he grows older. If the lesson of co-operating with the other members of the family is not learned in the home the child seldom learns to co-operate successfully with his fellows in the community. The law of our State. Properly places the responsibility of controlling the conduct of children under 18 years of age on the parent and holds the parent criminally responsible for wilfully or negligently failing to exercise this function. If the parent is unable to control the child then the law provides for relieving the parent of the duty and responsibility, and placing the child in the custody and control of the State. THE CHURCH AND THE SCHOOL. The church and the school supplement the work of the home in training and disciplining the child for social life. Delinquency often commences with truancy from school, and truancy may be caused by a bad school as well as by a bad boy. Under our present school law which makes school attendance compulsory up to eighteen years of age, it is necessary that we greatly enlarge the 
 vocational aspects of our education in order that we may adapt the school to the needs and capabilities of the child. Special schools and classes for the misfits are essential if the schools fulfill the obligation which they have undertaken under our new compulsory school law. The church likewise often fails to properly function in the case of the misfits. Our Church organization is prepared to give the most perfect training to those who' seek it. But we often fail completely to reach those who must seriously need the influence of religion. The juvenile court records show that not one in ten who come before the court is an active church worker. THE STATE OR COMMUNITY. The two chief needs of the community in order that it may properly function in preventing juvenile delinquency are: first, proper vocational help, and secondly, attractive and supervised recreational opportunities. An idle brain is the devil's work shop, yet few communities make any concerted effort to provide employment for juveniles. So also our community amusements have become largely commercialized and are not always therefore of the most wholesome kind. The best way to avoid delinquency is to provide attractive substitutes for delinquency. The fact that in the State of Utah last year over 9000 children were brought before the juvenile courts in spite of the training of parents, and of schools, and of churches and the prohibition of the law, shows that delinquency is attractive. It can not be cured simply by saying, "Thou shalt not.'' It can be reduced by furnishing through the community attractive substitutes. Vocational helps and good clean constructive recreation are two of the best substitutes which the community can furnish. QUESTIONS. 1. In what ways does juvenile delinquency manifest itself in your community? 2. Do your juvenile delinquents have a normal home life? 3. What effect do bad. Physical conditions in the home have on achild? Illustrate. 4. What are the essential conduct lessons the home should teach the child? 5. Is the juvenile court functioning as a helpful agency in your community? If not, why?: 6. What duty do the school and church owe the delinquent? 7. Is any effort made in your community to provide satisfactory employment for juveniles? 8. What unwholesome recreation is indulged in by your children? 9. Are attractive substitutes being provided? Are You a Subscriber to the Relief Society Magazine? If not you are missing an opportunity to keep in touch with Relief Society work; and also the opportunity to help solve your Relief Society and home problems. Send your subscription to Relief Society Magazine 29 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City, Utah Individual Sacrament Sets Now in Stock - Best in the Market WILL LAST A LIFE TIME—
 KEFERENCES FURNISHED Made especially for L. D. S. Churches, and successfully used in Utah and Inter-mo