[WomansExponent | Vol20 | 1891 | December | Issue: 12 | Title: EMILY HAMILTON'S CHRISTMAS. | Author: Unknown]

EMILY HAMILTON'S CHRISTMAS.

			[Concluded.]
silence, "Will you sing for me Emily, or is 
anything wrong here tonight?"
   "No, papa only I'm out of sorts, I guess I've 
got the blues,' mamma thinks I'm disagreeable
I've offended her by speaking about the
Christmas, you know, and papa I don't see
why we should always do quite the same things
in the same way just as they did a hundred
years ago?"
   Mr. Hamilton laughed, "a hundred years ago
no, I don't think we do just the same, why
Emily a hundred years ago your grandmother
was not born. No, I rather think if you were
put back a hundred years you would find
quite a difference. Not so many dainty ele-
gances as you girls have nowadays, why your
great grandmother who lived a hundred years
ago, rode through the woods to parties on a
pillion instead of in a luxurious, satin-lined
carriage. As for Christmas I don't think they had
any, Thanksgiving and New Year's were the
holidays in winter,but suppose you sing for me,
an old-fashioned song, I like old tunes and old
songs, and I'm not over fond of new-fangled
things nor ways either for that matter." After 
a little more in the same strain Emily sang
and her voice so full of melody, clear as a bell,
soothed her mother, as well as quieted even
her own rebellious spirit. Such is ever the
power of music over the human heart. When
she had gone over the list of her father's
favorite pieces, she came and put her arms
around his neck and coaxingly said, "come
papa what about a Christmas party?"
   "Supposing we consented your mother and I
to have this party, whom would you invite?"
Don't you know how disappointed all our
folks would be who've been in the habit of
coming here regularly for so many years?
    "To begin with papa Frank will bring one
of his college friends, I wrote to him to invite
his favorite companion," "O, I see Emily you
have arranged for a partner!" "Then we must
invite the young people that we have always
associated with I suppose, though there are
some of them very ordinary, and I don't sup-
pose they know how to get through any of the
new style dances."
   "Which of the families do you object to, or 
is it the young folks only, who are so objec-
tionable?" "Papa I didn't say I objected, not
exactly; there are not many to choose from,
and they, or at least the young men all voted
for your election to office, and I must be
gracious on that account, I don't think I care
much for any of them, but Harry Montague
has been very polite to me and in every way
possible has shown me marked attention since
I came home; we used to be very fond of each
other when we were children; he always helped
me over the brooks, and lifted me down out of
the trees, and gave me the largest berries when
we went out blackberrying." "Then you do
mean to include him," said her father, "shall
we make a list, taking notebook and pencil
from his pocket and writing; "Frank Hamil
ton's friend, Harry Montague, who next?"
Emily felt nettled, she did not quite like to be
subjected to such scrutiny, and to put an end
to it turned to her mother and asked her
opinion about the invitations. Mrs. Hamilton
quietly remarked, "it is your party child and
I cannot think of making suggestions," and
then as though to conciliate her a little said, 
"you know the girls and boys, two years has
not made many changes, only one or two have
gone away, you are aware of that, Harry might
help you or his sister Susie, she's a very lady-
like girl you'll not object to her as she is
Harry's sister."
   A little more of this sort of banter, and
Emily began to feel as if she would like to
give it up, but then she imagined herself help-

[Column 2]
ing to wait upon the aunts, uncles and cousins
and far off relatives and connections and she
took fresh courage. That night when alone
she consoled herself by thinking, she had been
punished for her perseverity, and that she ought
to have the party any way.
   "After all what does it matter about all
those people, who only come when they know
there's a fine dinner, papa could send them
each a present, I'll ask him," then she hesi-
tated. "No, the party will be more expensive,
there's the music, and lots of extras, no I can't 
ask him for anything more, except 1 must
have a new dress, and wondering whether he
really intended she should give the party she
fell asleep.
   Meanwhile Mrs. Hamilton had opened her
heart to her husband, after the little ones had
all been put to bed, and they decided that
Emily should give the party, and have her
own way about inviting, and see if it would
prove more pleasant for her in the realization
than the family dinner. So Emily was al-
lowed full liberty to proceed with the details.
    A few days after these occurrences, Emily's 
grandmother paid them a visit, she lived a
little distance away, and had not seen Emily
for some time. She was very sweet-mannered
and Emily had formerly been very fond of her,
but she saw the difference in her favorite's man-
ner and deplored it very much; she spoke
freely to her son on the subject and asked him
if he could countenance such hauteur under
his own roof. "Why" said the old lady ,"she
will not be a credit to you, or her mother
either, her pride is insufferable, what good is
all her French, and German, and music and
China painting, when she hasn't a kind word
for any of her old friends?" More in the
same strain, the elder Mrs. Hamilton poured
into her son's unwilling ears, he was ambitious
that his daughter should do well, in fact excel,
but he despised ostentation, and he knew his 
mother's view of the case, would be the one
others would take outside his own family.
   Emily's grandmother spoke very plainly to
her on several occasions, and cautioned her
against being so brusque, with the people who
called; most of them really out of respect for
her home-coming.
   "O, grandma you make me weary, I never
can do what you wish, what are all these
village people to me, I don't mean to be one
of them, I intend to go abroad and marry
some rich foreigner." "Some one with a title,
but without either money or brains I suppose,
and how do you propose to manage after
marriage? people have to live you know, there
are some things that can be dispensed with
but not the bread and butter." "I haven't 
got so far as that grandma, he hasn't put in
an appearance yet in any shape, but I dreamed
of him the other night and when I see him
I shall know him at once." "Worse and
worse child, and then when you see him and
know who he is, as you say, you'll go right up
to him and embrace him doubtless, and tell
him your dream and the wild tale of your love
and waiting?" "No grandma I'm not quite
that foolish, but I know lots of girls do marry
foreigners (I prefer Germans) and they travel
and see the world, one of our girls at school, a
special friend of mine, Fanny Osmond, fell in
love with a Count, and ran away from school,
and they were married, and her mamma was
sent for, and she took her home and forgave
her after awhile, and O, there's ever so much
more of the story only you wouldn't approve 
of it, so I'll not tell you about it."
   "No, Emily I don't approve of runaway
marriages in any case, and the sooner you dis-
card all such nonsense the better for you,and all
with whom you are connected; put all such
notions away from you, and marry some good
young man, whose integrity of character and

[Column 3]
uprightness is well established and you will
have more home-happiness depend upon it."
   The days went by and preparations for quite
a grand party were in progress. Invitations
were sent out and the affair made quite a stir
in the town for such elaborate parties were not
often given in the vicinity except on wedding
occasions. Frank returned from college, and
was quite surprised with the news of a grand
ball. His friend came a few days after, for
Frank wanted to know whether his mother
could arrange for a guest, before he made the
invitation binding. Emily was delighted when
she learned that he was quite an accomplished
young man, and that the coming year would
finish his college course, and he would begin
life as an Attorney at Law. Frank had in-
formed her that his father was wealthy, and
would set him up well,and he would not have to
begin with nothing but a bare office and a few
law books as so many young men do.
     Evergreen trees and vines and scarlet berries
were brought from the woods to decorate the
rooms for the coming event. The hot house
too was robbed of its choicest lilies and plants
for the time being and the trailing smilax
graced and beautified the elegant rooms.
Everything bespoke splendor and luxury.
   Frank's friend had arrived and been intro-
duced and made quite a sensation, both Emily
and her sister Bessie 'fell in love with him at
first sight,' as they termed it, and Mrs. Hamil-
ton herself could not help admiring his genial
and polished manner; Fred Boutwell was a
favorite everywhere, one of those men who al-
ways shine in a crowd, he was the life of any
company, his musical talent and fine baritone
voice were great attractions. He played and
sung and whistled, handled the guitar and
banjo with perfect ease like a real troubadour,
the piano keys were magical to his touch.  In
fact Emily almost wished that she had not sent
out her invitations for she enjoyed his society
so much, that she felt other girls would be an
intrusion. Emily Hamilton was intensely
selfish and wanted now to have this fine young
man devote himself exclusively to entertaining
her.  But it was too late now and Fred unlike
Frank Hamilton liked a crowd. He could 
amuse and interest a dozen girls as well as one
and enjoyed the fun very much better.
    After the first day or two at the Hamilton
home, he showed signs of restlessness; he was
accustomed to the City and when he talked of
New York and the gaiety of the season there,
he made Emily feel that he was sacrificing a
great deal to spend Christmas week there. She
longed for the city life he described so glow-
ingly, and the house though teeming with
everthing to make it a delightful place of en-
joyment, looked simple and homely compared
to the pictures Fred drew of the elegant
mansions in New York City. It lessened her
enthusiasm considerably about the party, and
some way whenever she was alone even for a
few minutes, she felt gloomy and sad.  The
elder Mrs. Hamilton was an observant person,
and not being engrossed with care like the
younger Mrs. H. had a good opportunity to
notice the change in Emily's manner. She
was well aware of the cause, for she had seen
much of life and could weigh and balance
character, was a good judge of appearances,
and had seldom been deceived in her estimate
of people. She had looked upon Fred with
suspicion from the first and felt sorry too, but
Frank was so ingenuous and unsuspecting
that he was likely enough to be deceived. Mr.
Hamilton was so absorbed in his business that
he had little time to spend at home except to
eat and sleep there; public duties occupied his
time to the entire exclusion almost of domestic
felicity.
	Christmas Eve came at last and with it a
heavy snow storm; it had snowed all day and
the sleigh bells were jingling merrily, the


[column 1]
﻿children were in the gayest of spirits and
Emily and Bessie quite exuberant with the
prospect of a sleigh ride on Christmas Eve. It
was finally decided that they should all go in
the double-seated rig but Frank would drive
and he would take Bessie with him, and Fred
and Emily might occupy the back seat. The
ride was pleasant and exhilarating and Fred
made the most of his opportunity, for what
time is more opportune for love making than a
long sleigh ride, wrapped in warm blankets
and tucked in together with buffalo robes.
	While the young folks were out sleigh-rid-
ing the children were having a nice time with
ma and grandma, the father too was at home
and casting aside care for the time being
helped mamma fill the children’s stockings,
though there was no Christmas tree. Some
gossip had already reached them through the
servants and children about the party being
too grand for their own relatives etc., but this
had been anticipated, and consequently didn’t
cause them any uneasiness. 
	Emily had said to her mother she wished
Grandma Hamilton would take it in her head
to go home, for she wanted her room for a
cloak room, it was the only convenient place
for one, but she had not been obliging enough
to go, she lived alone, and after having raised
a large family, her Christmas would have been
a lonely one indeed if she had spent it in her
own home, besides her maid always went home
at Christmas, and for years, she had visited
with one or other of her children during holi-
day time. Emily never dreamed that she was
selfish in wishing her grandma to go, if any
one had told her so she would have resented
it.
	About 12 o’clock the merry party drove up
and halloing, ‘‘Merry Christmas,” were soon
unwrapped and sitting by the warm fire regal-
ing themselves with the most tempting viands
the house afforded. It was noticable to all
that Fred drank freely of the wine, and having
been out in the cold it had a decidedly bad
effect. Even Emily observed it and became
embarrassed, for he grew very free and more
talkative than usual. It cast a damper over
the whole group, every one fell to thinking ex-
cept Fred and he talked on and on, and finally
Mrs. Hamilton motioned the girls and they
left the room together. What a night that
was for Emily, she had listened to the sweetest
words from this young man, the words of a
lover to his sweetheart, and thought him
noble and worthy her affection, the love of a
pure young girl. How fallen was her idol
now! she knew full well that her dream was
over, what a short one it had been only a few
days, less than a week, and she seemed to have
lived ages in that short time, she felt as if she
had known him always, that night he had
kissed her, had held her hands caressingly, O,
how could she bear this humiliation!
	She wished over and over again that she
had not insisted upon giving the party, that
things had taken their regular course and that
she would not be compelled to wear a smiling
face under a broken heart to-morrow. Perhaps
Fred would ask her forgiveness when he
realized that he had imbibed too much, he
would certainly be conscious of the fact she
thought, or at any rate Frank would tell him.
She slept little, and woke early with a
wretchedly dismal feeling. She wanted to go
and tell her mother all, but she hesitated think-
ing as her mother was not aware of any love-
making, it would be as well for her to remain
in ignorance of it, for all was over now.
	Mrs. Hamilton had a serious talk with her
husband that night,her Christmas was spoiled,
and she reproached herself for having allowed
wine on her table even at Christmas time. I
should not readily forgive any one who set
wine before my son if he had such a morbid
appetite, and I am resolved now from this time
[column 2]
never to allow it again, not even for my guests
upon any occasion,” she said to her husband.
He did not see it in the same light, men seldom
do, “he must be a man of weak character to
imbibe like that especially in the presence of
ladies, and when visiting in the house of friends
I feel sure it is not the first time, he is in the
habit of drinking immoderately, and is not a
fit companion for Frank, I shall talk plainly
to our boy about him tomorrow,” said Mr.
Hamilton. “And so shall I,” said the mother
never thinking that this stranger, as it were,
had made himself so dear to their darling
Emily.
	The morning found Fred suffering with
headache, could not come down to breakfast;
Frank made a lame apology for him, but they
all knew, why he had absented himself, all ex-
cept the elder Mrs. Hamilton, who began to
inquire, how it was that on Christmas morning,
when every one is expected to be unusually
cheerful, that they should all seem so low-
spirited. "And when the house is to be the
scene of such festivity tonight why is every
one so dull this morning?” She could not get
a satisfactory answer from any one however,
and was obliged to repress her curiosity. The
little ones were gay enough running here and
there displaying the treasures Santa Claus had
brought them and begging Grandma to tell
them stories of when she was a little girl, and
what Santa Claus gave to her.
	The house seemed more as though prepara-
tions were being made for a funeral than a
ball. Emily had no heart to look at her
Christmas presents, though Bessie had come in
early to show hers, but she found her sister
pale and sad, and went away thoughtful,
wondering why Emily should take Fred’s be-
havior so hard as to make herself sick over
it. It never occurred to the child that Emily
could be so interested in Fred that she should
grieve on his account. As she left her sister’s
room she said, “Don’t let Fred’s affair of last
night make you unhappy, Emily, he isn’t
worth noticing, I hope Frank will never bring
home any more of his chums, I’m ashamed of
him, the idea of his drinking like that.”
	Bessie then had no respect for this man to
whom she had given her affections almost un-
sought; she would gladly have shut herself in
and spent the day in weeping, but she must
keep up, and no one must know how she was
suffering inwardly, so she reasoned with her-
self, and the day dragged its weary length
along. Once or twice when she was alone with
her mother, she had feigned a gaiety she did
not feel, but Mrs. Hamilton observed how
little enthusiasm she was manifesting in the
last details of the party, and said “Emily are
you ill, was the long ride in the cold too much
for you? I shall not consent to your being out
so long at another time.” “O, I wish the party
was over and the house quiet once more,”
Emily replied, “I dread meeting these people
now when the time draws near.” “Indeed" said
the mother, that’s very strange after insisting
upon the party, and anticipating so much en-
joyment, and making your own selections of
everything and everybody, I don’t quite com-
prehend it, has anything gone wrong?” “No
mamma nothing, I think I’m not very, very
well, too much excitement perhaps,” and she
broke down and began to weep hysterically.
Mrs. Hamilton thought it was only due to un-
due anxiety, and perhaps some little remorse
of conscience for her selfishness, even Grand-
ma’s room had been taken for a cloak room,
though she had been very pleasant about it.
It never occurred to this fond mother that
Fred Boutwell was the cause.
	It was Emily’s first real sorrow, and she
wondered how she could possibly meet him,
sometimes she hoped he would be too sick to
make his appearance in the ball-room. What
a wretched Christmas it was to her, and she
[column 3]
had expected to meet her young friends so self-
satisfied and happy?
	Late in the afternoon Mrs. Hamilton asked
to see her dress, it had come home the day be-
fore from New York, and she had not even
shown it to her mother or sister. Reluctantly
she consented to try it on to please them; the
dress was elegant and a perfect fit; any other
time the girl would have gushed over it, for
she had never had such an elegant ball dress
before. Now Mrs. Hamilton observed how
very bad she looked, and felt really alarmed.
“Lie down a little while and keep perfectly
quiet, and you will be rested for the evening,”
said her mother fearing that she was really go-
ing to be seriously ill.
	The Christmas dinner was a very stiff affair
Fred evidently had some serious misgivings,
for he was unusually sedate, and altogether
the dullness was irksome, and every one seemed
glad to leave the table and go their separate
ways. Emily intended to avoid seeing Fred, lest
he should ask her pardon; she feared if he did
she might grant it even against her own will,
but the thing she dreaded came about after all;
as she was hurrying through the hall impatient
to get away from his gaze, he caught her hand
and held her fast for a moment, pouring into
her ears the same impassioned words of the
evening before, only with intensified emotion.
Finding no response he said, “Will you not
speak to me?” Before he had time to say
more she had wrenched her hand from his
tightened grasp, and fled like a wounded bird,
frightened at herself, lest she should betray the
love she still felt, though despising him in her
heart for his unblushing effrontery. But such
men are not easily daunted, she’ll come round
all right he thought to himself, give her a
little time..
	Emily alone in her own room fortified her-
self after this interview; she realized that he
did not see that he had made himself objec-
tionable, and she determined to act indepen-
dently. She made ready for the evening with
as much care as she could, her mother and
sister assisting, and even her grandma must
come upstairs to see how superb her dress
was, and how queenly she looked in the elegant
pink crepe and exquisite lace. She wore a
necklace of pearls and a profusion of white
roses that became her fine complexion
wonderfully, and it was not all surprising that
mother and grandmother should admire her.
	The guests came in good time, for the com-
ing party at Hamilton House had been the
talk of the town for many days beforehand,
and it was quite an event in such a quiet sort
of place. The music was inspiring and the
gay company assembled, and the warm greet-
ings of many former friends of Emily’s girl-
hood days, raised her spirits to an exuberance
more than natural. Harry was there and she
soon let him see that she had not been appro-
priated by Fred as the gossips had been saying.
Frank and Emily led in the first dance, and
after that she waltzed with Harry and it was
easy to see how delighted he was with her society.
Fred as if to vex Emily, paid his addresses to
the prettiest girls in the room, but whatever
she felt there was no outward demonstration.
Harry was far sighted in character-reading, he
had met Fred several times during his stay in
town and had suspected his bad habits, and
therefore looked suspiciously upon him; his
gallantry didn’t weigh much with Harry, who
was more of a diamond in the rough,
and when he saw him paying special attention
to his sister, he felt very indignant.
	Before the evening was half over he was
convinced that Fred Boutwell had been imbib-
ing, too freely of strong drink. After supper
he was leading Susie Montague out for another
dance and Harry observing his condition, went 
and asked her to excuse herself as he wanted
to go home, she hesitated and her partner in-


sisted on her remaining, and as she had not
the least idea why her brother wished her to
go, and really enjoyed the dancing as well as
the company of her partner, she took his arm
and walked away. Harry took Frank aside
and told him; what to do was the question and
avoid a scene; together they went to Mr.
Hamilton and while explaining,in came Emily
who had been thoroughly shocked and felt sure
others beside herself had observed Mr. Bout-
well's condition. Here was a dilemma, Emily
sank into a chair and utterly refused to go
back, something must be done quickly to avert
suspicion, Mrs. H. was called, and suggested
that they all return together and join the
dancers. This little ruse succeeded, the atten-
tion of the company was diverted to the old-
fashioned dancing for Mr. and Mrs. H. called
for Sir Roger de'Coverley and a Minuet
and the old-style figures finished the evening
When the last of the guests had departed
Emily confessed to her father and mother not
only her utter selfishness, but how nearly she
come to being in love with Fred, and how
bitterly she repented her folly. "I shall never
want another party, I feel so humiliated over
this affair." Frank took the blame on himself,
but Emily interposed, saying she had insisted
upon his bringing one of his friends; she had
made a narrow escape; and she never forgot
how near she came to being grossly deceived
by fine words and outward appearances. In
time she came to realize that money and posi-
tion in society do not constitute true gentlemen,
and grew to appreciate the honest love of an
upright man, though he had neither wealth
nor distinction by inheritance. Miss Hamil-
ton's grand Christmas ball was discussed and
criticised for weeks afterwards with all its de-
tails elaborated, until Emily felt she never
wanted to hear of Christmas again.
	Harry Montague had loved Emily from
childhood and he finally succeeded in winning
her for his wife. Frank discarded such com-
panions as Fred Boutwell and when he had
finished his studies came home and courted
Susie Montague; and one Christmas three years
after the unfortunate party there was a double
wedding and a happy gathering at Hamil-
ton House. It is needless to add that Emily
Hamilton always after insisted on having
Christmas trees and a good time generally for
the children, aud family parties for the older
ones,and found real happiness in making them
happy, and positively waiting upon them, and
though her manner was always a little distant
she was pretty effectually cured, by a severe
practical experience, of what her grandmother
had termed her "insufferable pride."


