[Vol8 | September 1921 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Preserving the Faith of Our Fathers and Mothers Adam Bennion]

Preserving the Faith of Our Fathers and Mothers By Adam S. Bennion. "Righteousness exalteth a nation: but sin is a reproach to any people." Proverbs 14:34. History bears record that in this proverb Solomon declared a mighty truth—a truth which challenges the attention of the world today. The question whether we are leaning more toward sin. Than righteousness these days floods the press from one end of America to the other. Without attempting to settle that question we may safely conclude that because of the spiritual indifference of men and women generally, the call now being sounded throughout our country urging a return to religious principles is at least timely. Every newspaper is a chronicle of crime. Fashion is at war with modesty. From accounts published depicting life at our seaside resorts one might naturally conclude that they are'a strange mixture of salt water and social indecency. Our nation has been alarmed for years over the problem of the dance. Divorce becomes more and more a national menace with such a state as Idaho recording one divorce for every five marriages. Our Juvenile Courts handled last year in the United States more than 175,000 cases, to say nothing of the cases which kept safely just outside the courts. Alarming as are these figures, there is a question whether we should not be still more alarmed because of the'religious and spiritual indifference that threatens even graver dangers to future generations. The matter is brouht forcefully home to every Latter-day Saint 'when he is informed that of all our young PRESERVING THE FAITH OF OUR FATHERS 503 people who married last year a large proportion married outside the Church. We may hope for conversions in many of these cases, of course, but the facts sound two unmistakable warnings: clearly we are not stamping upon all of our young people the ideals of their forefathers and just as clearly we are laying therefore a foundation for religious indifference that is alarming. That these dangers confront us, everybody admits. Our concern lies in the proper remedy. The problem is so complex that no one prescription will likely be an adequate solution. But this article, in keeping with the spirit of the press generally, is a plea, as a partial solution at least, for a return to the religious ideals of our fathers. There is grave danger that we'are withdrawing too far from God. Material things—a mad rush for wealth and position, have pushed Him farther and farther from our thoughts. Our leading national and world characters have always cautioned us to cling to our Pilgrim heritage of an abiding trust in God. I was struck by the fact that President Harding, in his inauguration speech, led us back to this basic religious duty: "He hath shewed thee, O man, what is good; and what doth the Lord require of thee, but to do justly, and to love mercy, and to walk humbly with thy God?" Micah 6:8. Note the admonition of such eminent men as the following relative to our knowing the Bible as the message of God to his children: Ex-president Woodrow Wilson says: "A man has deprived himself of the best there is in the world who has deprived himself of an intimate knowledge of the Bible. "T. Ask of every man and woman in this audience that, from this night on, they will realize that part of the destiny of America lies in their daily perusal of this great book of revelation—that if they would see America free and pure they will make their own spirits free and pure -by this baptism of the Holy Scriptures." John Ruskin, English art critic and author says: "Whatever I have done in my life has simply been due to the fact that when I was a child my mother daily read with me a part of the Bible and daily made me learn a part of it by heart. And truly, though I have picked up a little further knowledge—in mathematics, meteorology and the like, in after life, and owe not a little to the teaching of many people, this material installation of my mind in that property of chapters I count very confidentially the most precious and, on the whole, the one essential part of my education, For the chapters became strictly conclusive and protective to me in all modes of thought and in the body of Divinity they contain." Theodore Roosevelt says: "The immense moral influence of the Bible though of course infinitely the most important, is not the only factor it has for good. In addition there is the increasing influence it exerts on the side of good taste, of good literature, or proper sense of ' proportion of simple, straight forward writing and speaking and thinking. No man can afford to be ignorant of the Bible." Viscount James Bryce of England, in 1914, said: "It is with great 
 regret that one sees in these days that knowledge of the Bible seems declining in all classes of the community. I was struck with the same thing in the United States. Looking at it from the educational side only, the loss of a knowledge of the Bible and of all that the Bible means would be incalculable to the life of the country. It would be a great misfortune if generations of children grew up who did not know their Bible."; U. S. Grant says: "Hold fast to the Bible as the sheet anchor of your liberties; write its precepts upon your hearts and practice them in your lives. To the influence of this book we are indebted for the progress made in true civilization, and to this we must look as our guide in the future." George Washington in his Farewell Address says: "Of all the dispositions that lead to political prosperity, religiow and morality are the indispensable supports—and let us with caution indulge the supposition that morality can be maintained without religion, Whatever can be conceded to the influence of refined education on minds of peculiar structure, reason and experience both forbid us to expect that national morality can prevail in exclusion of religious principle." Charles Edward Pugh, in Moral Training in the Public Schools, p. 10: "The Hebrew race and the Bible have been the two mightiest forces in the moral uplift of mankind, and until the teacher is as free to use the inspiring and instructive literature of the Bible as she is to use the Iliad and the Koran and the poetry of the other races, we are limiting the teacher in the use of efficient means of moral training."; Abraham Lincoln says: "The Bible is the best book that God has given to man." One of the most inspirational books of 1920 is Fundamentals of Prosperity, by Roger W. Babson. He speaks not as an evangelist but as a statistician and business man. Again and again he declares that the great need of America today is more Faith—a more solid religious foundation for the great structure of civilization which we are destined to build. The concluding page of the book is significantly striking: "Just before I went to Brazil I was the guest of the President of the Argentine Republic., After lunching one day we sat in his sun parlor looking out over the river. He was very thoughtful. He said, 'Mr. Babson, I have been wondering why it is that South America with all its great natural advantages is so far behind North America notwithstanding that South America was settled before North America.' Then he went on to tell how the forests of South America had two hundred and eighty-six trees that can be found in no book of botany. He told me about many ranches that had thousands of acres under alfalfa im one block, He mentioned the mines of iron, coal, copper, silver, gold; all those great rivers and waterpowers which rival Niagara. 'Why is it, with all these natural resources, South America is so far behind North America?' he asked. Well, those of you who have been there know the reason. But, being a guest, I said: "Mr. President, what do you think is the reason?' "He replied: 'I have come to this conclusion. South America was settled by the Spanish who came to South America in search of gold, but North America was settled by the Pilgrim Fathers who went there in search of God." PRESERVING THE FAITH OF OUR FATHERS 505 "Friends, let us, as American citizens, never kick down the ladder by which we climbed up. Let us never forget the foundation upon which all permanent prosperity is based." One of the strongest speeches made during the N. E. A. Convention, at Atlantic City, last February, was a plea for the giving of proper place in our public school teaching to a consideration of those religious principles upon which in the last analysis civilization rests. Recently Dr. Gardiner of New York was in Salt Lake City in the interest of the Educational work of the Episcopal Church in America. He aims to make it possible for every Episcopal child to receive religious training as he goes through the public school.; It is significant that today more than two hundred of the leading institutions of learning in America recognize toward graduation credit earned in a study of the Bible. Among those institutions are such names as Columbia University, Brown University, the University of Chicago, the University of Notre Dame, the University of Iowa, Boston University, Colgate University. Purdue University, and Smith, Mount Holyoke, Oberlin, Carleton, Bowdoin, Dartmouth, Hartford, and Randolph-Macon College, and the University of Rochester. Fortunately we have in our Church the means whereby these desirable objectives may easily be achieved. For years past our young men and women who have attended our Church Schools have received daily instruction in theology—have been trained in their relationship with God and in the obligations to live up to Christian ideals. For a number of years at least ten thousand young Latterday Saints have caught the spirit of the gospel in the institutions of learning maintained by the Church. Schools have been onerated in representative centers as indicated in the following list: B. Y. University, Provo, Utah. B. Y. College, Logan, Utah. Big Horn Academy Cowley, Wyo. Cassia Stake Academy, Oakley, Idaho. Emery Stake Academy, Castle Dale, Utah. Fielding Academy, Paris Idaho. Gila Academy, Thatcher, Arizona. Knight Academy, Raymond, Alta, Canada, L. D. S. University, Salt Lake City, Utah. Murdock Academy Beaver, Utah. Millard Academy, Hinckley Utah. Oneida Stake Academy. Preston Tdaho. Ricks Normal College, Rexburg, Idaho. San Luis Academy, Manassa, Colorado, Snowflake Academy, Snowflake, Arizona, 506. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Dixie Normal College, St. George, Utah. St. Johns Academy, St. Johns, Arizona, Uintah Academy, Vernal, Utah. Weber Normal College, Ogden, Utah, Snow Normal College, Ephraim, Utah. Next year three of these institutions will be converted into public schools, it being thought advisable to discontinue in part at least the giving of high school training which the state is so well able to provide, and center our efforts more on the training of teachers and on the providing of religious instruction for more of our young people than can be reached through our schools. The Seminary promises to be the institution which will make this instruction more and more generally possible. If present plans are carried out there will be seminaries operated in each of the centers named below: Afton, Wyoming. Mesa, Arizona, American Fork, Utah. Montpelier, Idaho. Blackfoot, Idaho. Mt, Pleasant, Utah. Blanding, Utah. Murray, Utah. Brigham City, Utah. Nephi, Utah. Chandler, Arizona. Pleasant Grove, Utah. Fillmore, Utah. Provo, Utah. Salt Lake City, Utah. Richfield, Utah. Heber, Utah, Richmond, Utah. Huntington, Utah. Roosevelt, Utah. Hyrum, Utah. Rigby, Idaho. Jordan, Sandy Utah. Salina, Utah, Kanab, Utah. Oakley, Idaho. Kaysville, Utah.; St. Johns, Arizona. Lehi, Utah. Driggs, Idaho. Manti, Utah. Moroni, Utah. These seminaries are presided over by expert teachers of theology—men well trained and eminently fitted to be the spiritual advisers of our boys-and girls. In these institutions students will find daily the complement to their regular high school studies. The seminary is so operated that all high school students can elect, as they do their regular high school work, a course in theology. They simply go over to the seminary instead of going into a high school class room. Courses are offered in Old Testament, New Testament and Church History and Doctrine. The Seminary Principals hav4 spent the first six weeks of this summer perfecting the outlines to be used in these various courses and have worked out one of the best contributions yet made to our study of theological problems. Surely every Latter-day Saint parent should urge his children to enroll as Seminary students. As such they will acquire a religious background for their lives. Boys and girls will be PRESERVING THE FAITH OF OUR FATHERS 507 trained for ward and missionary service. More than that they will be inspired with ideals of life that will lead them safely past the temptations of youth and will make of them parents who can build homes where the spirit and teachings of the Lord can attend the nurture of the unborn spirits on whom the responsibility of carrying on this great work will rest in another generation. Fancy the child who, denied the companionship of parents, should go out into the world to face its problems without the cautioning counsel of the fireside. And yet there are hundreds of children—children of the Lord—at large in the world who have never been taught to counsel with him. The world suffers today because they have stumbled in paths that might have been made light by his Holy Spirit. President Hale, of Boise, relates the following inspirational experience. A child, sitting on its father's knee, was driving the auto when the mother from the rear seat observed, "O, you can drive the car, can't you?" "Yes," said the child, "When papa's hand is on the wheel." As we set forth in our machines toward eternity let us make sure that the Father's hand is on the wheel. Let us keep him near by keeping near to him. Both the Church school and the Seminary offer an excellent opportunity for our boys and girls to keep close to him and to study and understand his work and his salvation. DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR UNITED STATES RECLAMATION SERVICE WASHINGTON, D. C. FARMS FOR EX*SERVICE MEN On September 9th, 222 farms will be opened to homestead entry by soldiers of the World War, on the North Platte Irrigation Project, Wyoming, and one week later, September 16th, 57 farms will be thrown open under the Shoshone Project in the same state. About 19,000 acres of land are included in the two openings. For sixty days no one but soldiers of the World War will be permitted to make filings on these farms. Crops to the value of over $1,000,000 were produced in 1920 on about 45,000 acres Soldiers who are interested in the land are invited to investigate the opportunities offered by these openings. Detailed information concerning the farms and the method of a them may be secured by writing to the Project Manager, U. OR. S., Mitchell, Nebr., about the North Platte project, to - Project Manager, Powell, Wyoming, concerning the Shoshone opening, or to the U. S. Reclamation Service, Washington, D.