[Vol8 | September 1921 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial No man can be Saved in Ignorance]

EDITORIAL  Motto—Charity Never Fatleth  RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - oe - - - -: Susa Younc Gates Business Manager.:. -.. Jeanette A, Hype Assistant Manager:: 5: -. - Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. VIII.: SEPTEMBER, 1921 No. 9 NO MAN CAN BE SAVED IN IGNORANCE One of the inspired sayings uttered by the Prophet Joseph Smith, which has been quoted everywhere, is "that no man can be saved in ignorance." 'The saying is true, but taken exactly as it is, it is susceptible of more than one explanation. It is a favorite quotation among our educators; and sometimes eager young people are inclined to interpret ignorance as a lack of book knowl-. Edge or ignorance as regards schooling. This interpretation is scarcely correct. The prophet evidently intended the explanation to cover ignorance concerning the laws and principles of the gospel, for the men and women who laid the foundation of the Church in Jesus' day, as well as those who restored this Church and kingdom today—certainly had little or no schooling, and their education was not obtained through books nor earthly teachers. True it is that the Lord expects his children to learn all that is possible to know concerning history, science, art and life in general; but all of this may be learned, has been learned, and will be learned, in the future, where necessary, perhaps, without the aid of books or schools. We must look upon education as a means to an end, and not as the end in and of itself. A school education, with books placed in our hands teaches us how to secure knowledge, but it does not invent the mental tools nor even manufacture them, because books are merely the description of other peoples' experiences and discoveries. We are helped , 538° RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE by knowing what other men who have preceded us, along the road we are traveling, have learned; but truth and law are eternal, and we are as likely to discover truth, if we struggle for it, as is any man or woman in the past or in the future. Physical ignorance, that is, a lack of knowledge concerning our body and the laws which govern the delicate adjustment of the parts in this human machine, causes sickness and distress to those who suffer thus from ignorance, and who disobey those laws. Mental ignorance leaves us in a world of intellectual semitwilight, for our eyes are blind to observe the miracles of nature about us and we cannot know of the many-sided cultured world which is a part of the mental equipment of educated people. Spiritual ignorance leaves the mind in darkness concerning the relation of human beings to their Father in heaven. We may discover through experience, or training, the great fundaimental moral truths which are the basis of eight of the ten commandments; but when it comes to knowledge concerning God and the principles of righteousness, spiritual ignorance leaves us to wallow in blindness and superstition of various kinds. We may be very wise in physical education, we may be well taught along mental lines, or we may be thoroughly conversant with the fundamental laws of nature, and yet be comparatively uneducated in spiritual truths. The ideal condition is to be qualified through proper tradition, wise training in childhood, liberal schooling in instiutions of learning in youth, receiving at the same time a full education in the principles of the gospel, and in the knowledge of the scriptures. The qualification of the Latter-day Saint begins with the spiritual education. Life may offer to us little opportunity for training in schools, and our body may be frail and our life burdens heavy, but if we have received a testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ, and have made that the foundation stone of our spiritual education we are educated indeed and our lives will be crowned with divine success. Sisters of the Relief Society, you who are officers and you who are members, answer to your hearts one question: Have I secured to myself the Pearl of Great Price, the great gift of God to man, which is eternal life, and which can be secured only through first obtaining a testimony of the mission and crucifixion of the Savior, with the added testimony that Josepn Smith was a prophet of the living God, and that he revealed anew the gospel of Jesus Christ in this the last dispensation to the children of men? If you have secured that foundation principle of true education, then indeed you are wise, and no matter if you are unable to read and write—no matter if life has EDITORIAL 539 prevented you from ever entering the doors of a school room— no matter if the home and the children have crowded out of your life the opportunities for culture and learning, still you are educated and you shall pass from this stage of existence graduated into the spheres where Christ dwells and where he is waiting to receive you and crown you in glory with him in his Father's kingdom. Despise not in your heart the learning of man, nor the training of schools, dear older sisters, for it is an enrichment to the spirit, and an added value to our earthly experience. Remember if you have failed to acquire that mental education you Shall have the whole of the Millennium in which to study and qualify yourself. The body may be strong, the mind may be active, but if the soul is asleep, then indeed there is an ignorance there which shall prevent that human being from being saved in the kingdom of God. No man can be saved in ignorance of the laws of God nor the principles of righteousness,