Spare the Child By Mabel S. Harmer The other night I sat at a banquet which began about nine o'clock and ended about eleven due to the number of speeches and entertainment numbers that were interspersed between courses. Several times during the evening a lovely child of four was placed upon the table to sing. The woman across from me, together with many others, cooed, "How sweet." The woman at my left whispered under her breath, "Barbarous, perfectly barbarous!" I was inclined to agree with the woman on my left. The child sang ten or twelve numbers during the evening, all sentimental love songs that she could not have understood in the least. She was very sleepy and yawned between her songs?but the mother received her child's praises with a pleased smile. Her vanity was gratified and evidently that was what she wanted since the child could not possibly have been receiving any benefit from the performance. It is all too common a thing for a mother or teacher to exploit a talented child for her own gratification. Mother loves to have her friends 534 tell her how well little Jane sings, dances or recites and if Jane gives an unusual performance it may bring in more pupils for teacher. And what does Jane get out of it? First, she loses her sleep?since most entertainments are held in the evening. Her nervous system probably suffers because it takes most children a long time to overcome the fear caused by suddenly being the center of attraction of numerous eyes. Later on, as she becomes used to a great deal of praise and attention, she loses much of her charm. A mother proudly told me once that her eight year old daughter had taken part in over one hundred performances during the winter. I tried to be polite in my reply. From the time the girl was a tiny tot, this mother has spent a great part of her time in having the child trained and seeing that she was kept in the public eyes. She has even gone to the lengths of having her written up for the local papers. As a result the public has been led to expect more of the girl than it will probably ever realize?for while the girl has talent and is highly trained, she lacks the genius of a real artist. SOME years ago, as a young and very foolish teacher of dancing, I had two talented youngsters come to me for instruction. In a short time I presented them to an eager public. Why not? It was good advertising for me?people were very happy to use them as a feature for some performance for charity and their parents were delighted at the adulation the little girls received. And the children? One, an only child, became most dreadfully spoiled and sophisticated. The other, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE a daughter of parents of moderate means, became dissatisfied with her home life as she grew older and all but ran away to join a cheap traveling show. I resolved then and there that no matter what kind of prodigies my own children turned out to be, they would be spared the doubtful benefits of performing in public. It was rather too bad to experiment on some one else's children for the sake of my own. Of course, a child is a tremendous attraction at any time and can always "'steal the show" with her adorable ways. It is really too bad to take her out of the limelight? if you are considering the audience. But why consider the audience? What is the use then, you may ask, of training children in the fine arts if their light is to be kept hidden under a basket? There really is much to be gained in developing a child's talent aside from performing in public. First, there is the development that the child receives and her ability to appreciate the arts as she learns more about them. There is the very real enjoyment that a child receives from being able to dance, or sing, or play even if there isn't another soul in the world to enjoy it besides herself.; There is abundant opportunity for her to perform at home, with a group of other children, at school or before an audience composed of children. As she grows older most of these objections are eliminated and she may if she desires, display her talent and training before an adult audience. But until that time?spare the child from the ill effects of appearing in public. if I would give mothers a few ideas on how to be better wives. She said she was trying to be a good mother but she felt sure that the wife was becoming somewhat submerged. This is true to a great extent, and a woman may be a very good mother yet be a very poor wife. I sent questionnaires to husbands of various vocations, ages, temperaments and religions and here are the results: Two questions were asked and I have tabulated the answers using the terms used by the husbands. Some may seem interchangeable but I have classified them this way for clarity. First question: What. Do you consider your wife's finest trait? Love of home and family 24, Loyalty 18, Unselfishness 11, Courage 8, Even disposition 6, Dependability 6, Sincerity 4. Second question: What characteristics do you most admire in women? Love of home and family 42, Loyalty, Faithfulness, Fidelity 33, Poise, Charm, Grace 28, Even disposition 19, Femininity 16, Physical attractiveness 16, Intelligence 14, Co-operation, Foresight, Broadmindedness 13, Honor, Virtue, Purity 12, Sincerity 11, Affection 10, Charity 10, Courage 10, Cleanliness 9, Efficiency 6, Patience 6. Now you can check up on yourself, if you compare favorably with this list I congratulate you, if not so good, "It is never too late to learn." MOTHERS and fathers should meet their child's principal and A READER of this page asked By Holly Baxter Keddington teacher so there is a feeling of cooperation between home and school. The teacher will be able to do more for a child if she feels her efforts are understood in the home. Many children have peculiar characteristics or physical handicaps that need explaining. How much kinder to both teacher and child if an explanation is made instead of waiting for some trouble to expose the defects. A parent need only visit school for a short time to realize that teachers deserve far more tolerance than they receive. SAGES predict an early, rainy fall so I am suggesting these bits of amusement for the shut-in days. Cut funny-pages between lines, stack the pictures in order and sew on left edge with large stitches. Many weeks "Funnies" can be packed in a shoe box and put away for other bad days. Scrap-books of wall paper, card-board or oil-cloth 10 or 12 inches wide, for pictures, drawings and pressed flowers may be the first step in developing an artist, decorator or what not. I AM asked how I read so much. One makes time to read just as one makes time for almost everything. Maybe I read when I should be doing many other things. Reading is both my uplift and my downfall, for I have been spanked and teased for reading out of turn, but on I go, reading every chance I get. For the most and best reading in a condensed form read "Reader's Digest." It is in most libraries or may be had for 25c per copy or $3.00 per year.