When his thoughts seemed to have reached the point of going only in circles, the BreadTHE BREAD WINNER winner rose wearily and took a badly worn, paper bound volume from the shelf above the window. Though torn and battered the words: "Complete Works of Shakespeare,"' were still distinguishable. The Breadwinner always found comfort in Shakespeare as some people found it in the Scriptures. He had often forgotten to come to meals because of it. He had two reasons for liking it; one was he enjoyed it, the other was that he hoped to improve his English for he was a Scandinavian by birth and foremost among his many ambitions was the one to become a thorough American. When he finally laid the book down and began to prepare for bed, his brow had cleared and the hands of the little clock on the shelf pointed to two thirty. He even whistled a little as he whittled the shavings ready for the morning fire. As soon as the morning chores were finished he started for the Fort. He must get this matter of the doctor bill off his mind. The winter had been mild, so even in February the walking was not bad. Ground frozen and only a few drifts here and there made walking seem more desirable than riding the mule. Any way a slight jaunt of twenty-two miles did not seem much to a man who had walked two thousand miles across the plains when he was only nine years old. The doctor was alone and greeted him cordially with: "Well, how is' our boy today?" The Breadwinner struggled with himself. It was so hard for him to keep that huskiness out of his voice and it always made him feel like a child instead of the head of the family. Finally he said bravely, "The boy is all right, doctor, but what about your bill?". 541 "I have not been thinking about the bill; just about saving the boy. I have a hunch that boy is worth saving. I like the shape of his head. I like the fight he put up to help save himself. He has the stuff in him that is going to be needed in this new country. You and your good helpmeet can never expect to get done all there is in sight for you to do. This boy and his brother and the brothers that are yet to come will help to make this desert an empire." Oh, why would the doctor make it so hard for him. He should know that the father of a boy cannot stand to be talked to in that manner. He cleared his throat and blew his nose noisily then said as steadily as he could, "But, Doctor, about what do we owe you? I cannot sleep nights for thinking of it." "I really do not need money, you know. I have my salary and in a place like this there is very little for which one can spend money. Don't think about it." "But, doctor, I cannot think about anything else. You may not need it, as you say, but I still remember that your salary does not pay you for the hours and hours and hours that you spent plodding through every kind of weather, suffering every discomfort for the sake of our boy." "Oh, that's nothing. A doctor does not expect to spend his life sitting on a velvet cushion." "But, doctor, I have come to settle with you. We must have some understanding." He drew the small sack from his pocket and set it before the doctor. "There is all the money I have in the world. Take it. I wish it were ten times as much and for the balance you may take as many of the cows as you wish," 542 "And may I ask," the doctor inquired huskily, "what you will have to live on until there is something coming in?" The Breadwinner made a feeble gesture. He could not answer that question. The doctor drew out a paper and quickly wrote in his bold hand: "Paid in full for my services, from September 2, 1875, to January 1, 1876. C. W. Pindale, M. D." Handing it to the Breadwinner he said: "Take this, I'll keep the gold, since you insist. Were you able to pay, I suppose I would ask five hundred dollars, but knowing the circumstances as I do, I am a coward RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE to take anything. As for taking any of the cows, what are you talking about, man? Why should I save your child by medical science, then leave him to starve! I tell you this west needs men. The Breadwinner took the receipt from the doctor's hand and went out into the February sunshine without making an effort to express his gratitude. With a walk that was almost a trot, he sped homeward. He had no money in his pocket, but he had courage in his heart and life was good. He must hurry home to tell the mother of his boys that the doctor was paid.