All Places are Distant from Heaven Alike By Caroline Eyring Miner When I was a child I used to recite a little poem my mother taught me, each verse of which ended, "Choose who will a city life, I will be a farmer's wife." At the conclusion of each rendition of this little piece I always made a very emphatic post-script. "I don't mean it, though," which caused some comment on the part of my elders. I didn't mean it then, and as I grew older I declared more emphatically than ever that I wouldn't be a farmer's wife. Farm life had some good points, of course, the frolics in the great out-of-doors, the pets that one could have, the fruit and garden stuff that were so delicious, but I didn't like the endless work, the worry and uncertainty of crops, the little money one could get, and the dullness. On the other hand I saw only one side of the city life, its bright lights and excitement, the money that everyone seemed to have to spend on sodas and picture shows. I never saw the poverty, the suffering, the ugliness of the slums and Ghettos. Perhaps my bad Fairy punished me for my childish insincerity in reciting, "I will be a farmer's wife," when I didn't mean it, or perhaps my good angel knew what was best for me, for at any rate I became a farmer's wife. And somehow it seems exactly the right place to live, this farm. As I have grown older I have learned to understand that it doesn't matter so much where one lives for "All places are distant from heaven alike"?the heaven within one's heart. The little family group about the home are the angels of that heaven and they are with one no matter where one lives. The Bread Winners By Agnes Just Reid Seated before a pine table on which burned a tiny kerosene lamp the Breadwinner bent intently over a pair of scales. Carefully he poured from a soiled sack a small mound of shining particles. Weighing it, he put it into a cracked saucer and 'poured another mound from the sack. It was tedious work, but the eyes of the young Breadwinner gleamed. It was fascinating to handle this gleaming sand; it was the wherewith-all of this untamed country. Weighing, counting, computing, but it was no use. Try as he would he could only make a hundred dollars of all his hoardings. He leaned his arms on the table and his head dropped into them. What was he to do next? He had come to this lonely spot with his bride of a month and they had pitted their young strength against the elements. All had gone well, that is, they had managed to have food and clothes of some kind. The dug out in the hill side that had once been their home was now abandoned for a nice two-room log house; their few head of milk cows had increased; five years had really made some impression on their homestead. Then sickness came. Sickness such as no one would believe could come to such a blessed spot in the open. Something like typhoid fever laid their first born low and for four long months he had hovered between life and death. The boy was well now. In the next room behind that thin partition, the Breadwinner could hear his regular breathing mingled with that of his mother's, Oh, how they both needed that rest! How many, many nights that mother had sat beside the little sufferer's bed; neighbors came, it is true, if they can be called neighbors who lived twenty miles away, but most of the nursing fell to the mother. He wondered among other things how a mother who was rather frail in the beginning could keep going for so many weeks without rest.; Poor Breadwinner, he wondered many things as he sat in that attitude of despair. He wondered if perchance his family, the ones for whom God held him responsible, might actually starve there in the wilderness. That hundred dollars, all they had in the world, must go to the doctor who had saved their child. All of that and undoubtedly everything else they could rake and scrape. The Breadwinner knew nothing of doctor bills. Their two sons had been born there in their little shack without any medical aid. He himself had been the surgeon, his brave little helpmeet had washed and dressed her own babies, but this was different. They could not have gotten along without a doctor this time. They owed the very life of their child to this good doctor who had made more than a hundred trips on horseback, through every kind of weather, a distance of eleven miles. Doctors sometimes charge mileage, he had heard. "Twenty-two miles, even at ten cents a mile and a hundred trips," he figured to himself. "Oh, my God, I cannot pay such an amount.