Gardens on the Roof By Elizabeth Cannon Porter YOUNG business woman Are for her particular "Castle in Spain" a garden in England. She wrote out a description of an English garden such as she wanted and placed it among her most precious papers in her bank vault. Twenty years later she conceived the idea of making a miniature garden on the roof of a shed that her apartment opened out upon. With ingenuity and the expenditure of a small sum she evolved quite a lovely garden of rustic seats, gay striped awnings, potted trees and gaudy annuals. It is a delightful place in which to spend an evening and look at the stars while she is waiting for her "garden in England" to materialize. Some modernistic architects claim that the dwellings of the future like the office buildings now being built, will have flat roofs. Especially in a southern country can the roof tops be put to practical use. But they also say that snow packed on a flat roof helps to keep the house warm in more inclement climes. ANY are the advantages of roof gardens. Where land is expensive and space at a premium, they double the utility of the land, allowing the same ground to be used for house and garden purposes. They are economical, requiring a minimum of water, soil and foliage. Picturesque and bizarre, they allow one to indulge a taste in Moorish tile, Italian statuary, French balustrades, or Indian pottery. They offer privacy, in their serene heights, from the gaze of the passer-by. They are singularly free from droughts and air currents. Also less infested by insects than the lower levels. Being high above the surrounding foliage they offer uninterrupted views of mountains, desert, or sea,? as the case may be. In short, they are delightful places in which to bask in the sun in the daytime, or view the stars at night! They may be equipped with fountains or fireplaces, awnings or pergolas, tea tables for the ladies or sandpiles for the children. Roofs have also been commandeered for millionaire penthouses, cabarets, summer theaters, dance halls, restaurants, lecture rooms, gymnasiums and conservatories. The futuristic building of a furmiture store has a well-equipped model bungalow on its roof for demonstration purposes. A large department store has its plant nursery on the roof which is transformed into one vast garden. An apartment house which permits children has on its top a high-walled playground equipped with swings and slides. Hospitals have long utilized roofs for sun-baths and promenades, besides sun parlors for babies. Tenement roof tops are still decorated with clotheslines, but on other flat roofs one plays croquet and tennis. Miniature golf was said to have been started on a roof! The shrines of Japan have been moved to the tops of tall buildings to protect them from earthquakes. Besides, before long, people will need flat roofs on which to park the family airplane! TUNE IN ON KSL BLUE MONDAY JAMBOREE 9:00 to 10:00 Mondays Sponsorea by BLUE BLAZE COAL CO. Salt Lake City, Utah Complete Suits for Men and Women?Children's Clothing A Specialty Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail, Telephone and' Telegraph Orders Temple and Burial Clothes Variety of Grades and Prices  , Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine At the Forks of the Road When you pass the guide-post, what lies before yon? A college education? Unskilled labor? Idleness? You would give all you possess to make the right decision? Let the L. D. S. Business College help you?as it has helped thousands of other young people during its half century of service. With business steadily improving, there is an increasing demand for capable young people who have a good educational background PLUS  specialized business training. The opportunities available for young men and for young women... Salaries offered... What employers require... Where to secure the necessary training... How to qualify quickly and at low cost... How to secure your first position... These questions and many more are answered in "Planning Your Future'?a new, illustrated booklet which we have just published. Because of its cost and the limited supply, it is sent only away to those who are earnestly interested in getting ahead. A post card or phone call will bring you a copy without obligation. Send for free booklet. "Planning Your Future" contains fine information for which school and college graduates. YOU WON'T REGRET IT! BE SURE TO VISIT THIS SCHOOL FIRST
L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE 70 NORTH MAIN STREET, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH WASATCH 1812
Preserve Your Magazines by having them permanently bound
HERE is a vast amount of valuable reference material in your Relief Society Magazine. You can preserve this material permanently and in attractive book form by having your volumes bound.
SPECIAL RATE FOR QUANTITIES
The Deseret News Press Pioneer Printers, Binders, Rulers 29 Richards St. Salt Lake City, Utah
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
'What Ever Happens, Dad, My Life Plans Will Be Completed''
Careful study of various investments will convince the most skeptical that the Beneficial Life Safety-Savings Plan is the one method that positively provides for the future?for yourself, your loved ones.
COMPLETED IF YOU LIVE?COMPLETED IF YOU DIE?
In addition to the great insurance protection feature?not less than 3?% interest is guaranteed on money left on deposit. Contact a Beneficial representative and learn the many special features offered by The Big Home Company.
BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY HOME OFFICE SALT LAKE CITY
HEBER J. GRANT, PRESIDENT E. T. RALPHS, GEN. MGR.
DIRECTORS HEBER J. GRANT GEO. J, CANNON B. F. GRANT A. W. IVINS E. T. RALPHS DAVID O. MCKAY J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. JOS. F. SMITH A. B. C. OHLSON