Young people read by imitation largely. As mother reads, so the younger ones will read. The greatest problem naturally is what to read. Most of the reading done should be informational and entertaining. Stories concerning the people in different countries, short biographies of famous men and women whose lives are unusual enough to hold the attention of active youngsters, fairy stories, animal stories, each of these groups has its place. Kipling's Just So Stories arouse an interest and satisfy a craving of normal children in any locality. The Jungle Books by the same author will require some modification in one or two of the stories. If they are expurgated somewhat they will instill 538 a love and a respect for animals. The Uncle Remus books of Joel Chandler Harris are worth while and especially helpful in making children feel a oneness with animal life rather than a fear of it. Some reading should be merely for the sheer beauty of expression and of rhythm. The Bible answers this requirement of beauty. The Bible is of course informational as well and therefore has double value. Children need the solemn grandeur of the Creation and the Psalms, perhaps long before they can understand the significance of the words. In these days of irreverence and carelessness the reading of the Bible literature is to be particularly com- mended. Youngsters respond especially well to poetry. The rhythm strikes an answering chord in their hearts. Silver Pennies, edited by Blanche F. Thompson (a dollar publication of MacMillan Company, I have read repeatedly to my family. I especially recommend it for children of all ages. Often while I have been reading it to the children when their father was supposedly busy, I have glanced up and caught his amused but interested look. The book in addition to being good reading stimulates the children to a creation of poetry. My little girl (who is only three and a half) after listening to one of the poems began a chant of her own which was quite poetical as well as being highly imaginative. The little song of Silver Pennies made my boys? rough and ready as they are?eager to locate some immediately that they might enter fairyland. This creative urge resulting from reading this collection will impel mother to strike off little poems resulting from questions that the children ask, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE READING must not be limited to mother?although mother or father should read a little every day to the children. The children themselves must read?and for an audience. One's problems of managing a group of lusty youngsters can be partly solved by selecting books of short stories that the first and second graders can read to those younger. Mother can then mend with an eye to the more difficult words or can prepare the meals by keeping one ear tuned to catch any meaningless words or phrases. When a child first starts reading at home it is quite a chore?for mother as well as for the performer, But if mother insists on daily reading of not longer than ten minutes at a time, she will find that the reading habit becomes fixed. After a short time, the difficulty of recognition of new words is cut down and the youngster reads for the joy of the story. A little later he reads for the happiness of being able to give the story to some one else. A home audience is so much more receptive than a school class where all follow the same page with an eye for words rather than for story. In these days of talkies and radios, reading in the home serves a still further purpose?it will help train the children in the art of listening. Much as I should hate to do without these two outgrowths of our perfected mechanical age, I cannot help view them both with some degree of alarm. The theatre depends largely upon the auditors for its success. Consequently, the individual members of the audience feel a responsibility in helping the actors to do their best. In the talkie palace, on the other hand, the audience has no effect whatsoever on the performance. Whether there be one or a hundred spectators, the picture reels INSTITUTE OF RELIGION 4402 SOUTH REDWOOD ROAD off the same. Often, the inattention is appalling. The radio brings the world within our doors, but it also brings the attendant evil of inattention. We need to train the children to listen to well-modulated reading. Reading of the right sort can hardly be overdone. Children's ideas and ideals of family life, of government, of humanity, of morality, of God, result largely from reading. We parents have a duty that is second to God's in its immensity: we place in the hands of our children the keys to life's greatest joys or its worst tragedies. In our choice of books to read to them and the selec tion of those books which we have them read lies the oportunity to mould into their very beings the characteristics which will keep them 539 staunch and upright even in the time of greatest stress. The joys from reading aloud wellwritten literature will more than compensate for the extra hour that mother must work after the children are in bed. The reading will give thoughts to take her mind from the routine tasks that frequently take the joy from home work. The remembered kindling of the fires of imagination in the hearts of her children will warm her own heart now and through all the years to come. Although it may not be possible for every mother to leave her young ones an inheritance of dollars and cents, yet it is within the reach of each mother to give for all time a priceless heritage in the ability to appreciate good books.