Let Us Improve Our English BRIGHAM YOUNG, in Chapter Fight of 'nis Discourses says, "In our Relief Societies we wish to introduce many improvements. We can improve the language we use." This phrase was the inspiration | for the program of correct English which was carried out in the Relief Societies of Ensign and Liberty Stakes. The aim of the work was increased vocabularies, better enunciation and pronunciation, and more exact thinking and speaking. The outline includes: 1. The Voice?Tone and Enunciation. 2. Pronunciation. 3. The Dictionary?Its Use. 4, The Vocabulary?Enlarge it hy elimination and substitution. 5. Slang and its Substitutes. 6. Correcting incorrect expressions. 7. Vigorous Words?Verbs. 8. Conversation and Vocabulary. Immediate results of this course. Interpolated into the work and business day have been: increased attendance and better speech. A mispronounced word is a discord in the harmony of thought. Seven words often mispronounced in the Church are: genealogy organization quorum (qw) auxiliary (ogzilyari) main't?nance authority address' A man can think no further than his vocabulary. With the vocabulary of a child you can think no better than a child. The presidents of tne United States have had noticeably extensive vocabularies. President Wilson, the man who thought out the problem of world unity more clearly than any other man had the largest vocabulary of any of our presidents. Errata E very much regret that a serious error was made in the article written by Ezra C. Robinson in our July Relief Society Magazine, wherein he states that Jacob Hamblin had an Indian wife. We are informed by Brother Hamblin's son, Dudley J. Hamblin, that this is not correct. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto?Charity MRS. MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON AMY BROWN LYMAN THE GENERAL BOARD Never Faileth President First Counselor MRS. JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD Second Counselor MRS, JULIA A. F. LUND -: General Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Ida P. Beal Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Katie M. Barker Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Rosannah C, Irvine Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs. Lalene H. Fart Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Mary Connelly Kimball Mrs. Cora L. Bennion RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor -: Mary Connelly Kimball Voit. XXI SEPTEMBER, 1934 No. 9 Work "Thou, O God, who sellest us all good things at the price of labor."?Leonardi Da Viner. "Whatever religion is not work, may go and dwell where it will; with me it shall have no harbor." ?Carlyle. "Our worship does not work until it makes us work."?John M. Versteeg. "This is the gospel of labor, ring it ye bells of the kirk. The Lord of love came down from above to live with the men who work."*?Henry Van Dyke. EVER has the blessedness of N work been more evident than it is today. We see on every hand the deterioration that takes place when instead of earning a living men and women receive help from various agencies because they have been unable to secure employment. They chafe under the enforced idleness. They become discouraged. Life loses its zest and perhaps most serious of all, all too many become reconciled and even eager to have society give them an allowance on which to live. They lose the desire to work and sit back contentedly, feeling that the world owes them a living and they expect the world to give it to them. The tendency is for the idle either to become apathetic or to develop red tendencies. Every Latter-day Saint should be eager to work mentally, physically and spiritually. The gospel of Jesus Christ is a religion of work. The Master said, "My Father worketh hitherto and I work." He went from place to place doing good. He cleansed the lepers, healed the sick, made the blind to see and the deaf to hear. These healings required effort and power went out from Him. Happy are they who have both mental and physical work. Unfortunate are they who spend so many hours in physical labor that they use up all their energy and have none left for mental enjoyment, and those who spend all their time in mental activity, not giving the body the exercise it requires, find sickness and disabilities increase. Let all those who have work to | do and health to do it render gratitude to the Father of all mercies and Manager Assistant Manager Louise Y.