Joseph Smith By James L. Barker IV How does the Roman Catholic Church today regard the use of force to compel the acceptance of doctrine? Though free agency was recognized as God-given, its exercise was forbidden and an attempt made by force to nullify it. But what of the Catholic Church today? Does the Church today condemn, condone, or does it defend this attempt? Let the following answer: "Tt was a very heavy burden of responsibility?almost too heavy for a common mortal?which fell upon the shoulders of an inquisitor, who was obliged, at least indirectly, to decide between life and death. The Church was bound to insist that he should possess, in a pre-eminent degree, the qualities of a good judge; that he should be animated with a glowing zeal for the faith, the salvation of souls, and the extirpation of heresy; that amid all difficulties and dangers he should never yield to anger or passion; that he should meet hostility fearlessly, but should not court it; that, when circumstances permitted, he should observe mercy in allotting penalties; that he should listen ti) the counsel of others, and not trust too much to his own opinion or to appearances, since often the probable is untrue, and the truth improbable... History: shows us how far the inquisitors answered to this ideal. Far from being inhuman, they were as a rule men of spotless character and sometimes of truly admirab/e sanctity, and not a few of them have been canonized by the church."" We forget the men who died for conscience sake in our deep sympathy and undying admiration for the inquisitors, not a few of whom "have been canonized by the church." However, in as far as it was successful in the attainment of its official purpose, the inquisition "nullified free will" and tended to destroy the very foundation of all true ethical and religious life. If the practice of voting approval of the bishops, etc., and of voting approval of important pronouncements, had still been in vogue, such bulls would have been impossible. The people would not have voted their own burning for the "crime" of a conscientious difference of opinion. The Church would have excluded "heretics" from its membership, but there the matter would have ended. "Popular participation in doctrinal definitions" is not necessary to "prevent officials from 'compelling' the consciences of the people." In the L. D. S. Church today, the people are not asked to "define" doctrine, and they never have been; and in the historical Catholic Church had they been asked to approve doctrine as in the L. D. S. Church today and their right to approve or disapprove?to accept or reject? doctrines and officials had been recognized, there would have been no "compelling of the human  conscience." And I repeat: "Whatever machinery the Primitive Church possessed The Catholic Encyclopedia, vol. VITI, pr. 30. 31. | 520 ?voting to approve their bishops, etc.?that might have prevented the compelling of the human conscience, the Catholic Church has lost, and I know of no machinery it has either invented or restored to take its place." How does the Catholic Church now regard heresy and forcible measures taken to suppress it? "In the first place, nearly all ec-clesiastical legislation in regard to the repression of heresy proceeds upon the assumption that heretics are in wilful revolt against lawful. Authority, that they are, in fact, apostates who by their own culpable act have renounced the true faith into which they were baptized, breaking the engagements made by them, or by sponsors in their name, when they became members of the Church of Christ. It is easy to see that in the Middle Ages this was not an unreasonable assumption. The Church of God was then indeed a city set on a hill. No one could be ignorant of her claims, and if certain people repudiated her authority it was by an act of rebellion inevitably carrying with it a menace to the sovereignty which the rest of the world accepted. This at least was the case with the Cathari, the Waldenses, and the Albigenses, with the Lollards and the Hussites, and it was still the case with the immediate followers of Luther, of Calvin, of Knox, and of the other early Reformers." "Every lawfully constituted society must put down on principle the propagation of such sedition as threatens its own existence, and this is not persecution so long as reason and humanity are respected in the means of suppression employed (italics mine)." "Persecution begins when no reasonable proportion is observed RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE between the force used in compulsion and the importance and power of the interests which it is sought to control. To determine the exact point at which legitimate repression passes into persecution is hence a matter of extreme difficulty (italics mine).? The above does not contemplate a simple "definition" of doctrine only, but "force used in compulsion" and "legitimate repression" to compel its acceptance. Circumstances permitting, it would justify all the horrors of the inquisition. Doctrine may be defined, but it ts wrong to try to force people to accept it. Monsignor Hunt writes in the Intermountain Catholic: "If Professor Barker's words mean anything, they mean that there can be no authoritative definition of doctrine. According to him, it is wrong for Church authority to declare that a doctrine is true; to do so, interferes with freedom. On this principle, it can make no difference whether the defining authority be one man, a group of men, or a majority of the people. The moment the teaching authority announces that a particular doctrine is true and that the contrary is false, that moment according to Professor Barker, a grave injustice is committed." Where does the Relief Society Magazine article say anything justifying the statement "that there can be no authoritative definition of doctrine" or "that it is wrong for Church authority to declare that a doctrine is true; to do so, interferes with freedom" or, that by defining doctrine, "a grave injustice is committed"? It nowhere says anything of the kind. "The Catholic Encyclopedia, vol. XIV, p. 761, JOSEPH SMITH The principle of common consent, the practice of ascertaining the wishes of the people. Was repudiated and force used. The continuity of the Church was broken. Monsignor Hunt wonders if I "would go on record to the effect that the Church continued to enjoy full authority, assured by the presence of the Holy Ghost, as long as popular approval was given to clergy appointments." 'There is no reason for believing that "full authority (was) assured by the presence of the Holy Ghost" after they had denied that he had been promised to the people, and after the people had ceased to experience the "witness" of the Holy Ghost as they had experienced it in the Apostolic age. When the Church ceased "to enjoy full authority" would not be determined alone by popular approval... Given to clergy appointments,' but by the importance and number of other changes as well. One may well agree with the Catholic Encyclopedia:* "It may be safely said that the continuity of a society is broken when a radical change in the principles it embodies is introduced. In the case of a church such a change in its hierarchical constitution and in its profession of faith suffices to make it a different church from what it was before.... When, therefore, the truths previously held to be of faith are rejected, and the principle of government (italics mine) regarded as sacred is repudiated, there is breach of continuity, and a new church is formed." The Catholic Encyclopedia applies this reasoning to show that the protestant churches can not be a continuation of the Primitive Church. The same reasoning applies to the Catholic Church. To apply it in only the "The Catholic Encyclopedia, vol. III, p. 757. 521 one particular under discussion: The principle of common consent was practised in the Primitive Church as in the L. D. S. Church today. It safeguards the exercise of free will, itself indispensable to the exercise of all true ethical and religious. Life. It is fundamental. The Catholic Church did away with the practice of common consent and made a long sustained, persistent effort to stamp out heresy by force, to "nullify the exercise of free will," to destroy the one necessary condition of a religious life, and the Catholic Church still defends its course. The continuity of the Catholic Church with the Primitive Church has been broken and a new Church?not based on free will, but on constraint and anathema?has come into being. The fact that Joseph Smith restored the application of the principle of common consent, safeguarding the exercise of free will, is strong evidence of his quality of prophet. Comparative proof, criticized by Monsignor Hunt, is approved both in theory and practice by Catholic writers of repute. Monsignor Hunt is of the opinion that I "cannot resist the impulse to indulge in a little abuse,'"' because I affirm that "A Catholic or Protestant may be a candidate for the ministry, prepare for it, and aspire to the highest honors in the gift of the Church. Any priest or pastor may perform his ministry from sincere devotion to Christ or, on the other hand, theoretically, he may do it as a means of livelihood, just as his brother, to gain a living, may become a lawyer.... The Catholic and the Protestant Churches have lost the safeguard of sincerity (unpaid service) established by the Savior, and have found nothing perhaps to take its place." 522 In this statement, I am not judging any individual, but pointing to a weakness in the churches. Monsignor Hunt objects to my "criticising" the Catholic Church. The "critcism'" results from the comparison of the latter-day Church, the Catholic Church, the Protestant Churches, and the Primitive Church. Nevertheless the method of comparison ("criticism") to which Monsignor Hunt objects is approved both in theory and practice by Catholic writers when expounding their own faith. In speaking of the "marks" of the true church alleged by the Catholic Church, the author of the article "Iglesia" in the Enciclopedia Universal Ilustrada, vol. 28, p. 926, says: "Moreover the proof furnished by the marks may be two-fold: positive and exclusive or comparative.... With all this, for the greater clarity and force of the demonstration, let us verify the marks comparatively, verifying the fact that all of them are found. In the Roman Catholic Church and that none of them are found in the dissenting churches (italics mine)." Eminent Catholics apply this theory constantly, comparing what they consider the truths of the Catholic Church with what they condemn as errors. In the contrary beliefs of other churches. Why should not all men, untrammelled by "Indexes" or other prohibitions, prove all things and adhere to that which is best? No professional paid ministry in the Primitive Church. The Twelve were undoubtedly supported by the faithful, but the great mass of Church workers were unpaid. No one could be a candidate for the ministry or for advancement. The thing that matters then is: Is the comparison accurate? In the Primitive Church, had Peter and the other apostles been RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE candidates for the ministry? Or could anyone be a candidate for the apostolate or even for the office of a bishop? In all of the historical churches, a man may prepare and be a candidate for the ministry. In the latter-day Church, as in the Primitive Church, one may not be a candidate for the ministry. Monsignor Hunt states that St. Paul "stated that Christ had commanded that the clergy should be supported by the people. His words are clear: 'Know ye not, that they who work in the holy place, eat the things that are of the holy place; and they that serve the altar, partake with the altar? So also the Lord ordained that they which preach the Gospel should live of the Gospel." In the Primitive Church, as now, the priesthood had the right to use the revenues of the Church for their own support or otherwise, as directed by the Holy Ghost. But then, as today, all men considered worthy received the priesthood, and the greater part of all religious service was performed without pay. A professional salaried priesthood did not exist in the early Church. "As to the rhetoricians 'and philosophers one has no idea to what a degree Christianity set them on edge. In it they saw competition. The direction of souls, for which, in the time of the wise emperors, they believed indeed that they had received a special calling, they now saw pass into the hands of obscure preachers without titles or revenue, without instruction even.'" In the R. S. M. Article, I referred to the transition in the church from this unpaid priesthood to a professional ministry. Of this change, Harnack? says: "Soon after the creDuchesne, Histoire Ancienne de l'Eglise, pp. 199, 200. "History of Dogma, vol. 1, p. 139. JOSEPH SMITH ation of a professional priesthood, there also arose a class of inferior clergy.... This development was not uninfluenced by the heathen priesthood, and the temple service." And: "We may perhaps say that the development that made the bishops and elders priests altered the inward form of the Church in a more radical fashion than any other.'" As we have seen, although all those accounted worthy were given the rank of elder in the priesthood in the early Church, no one could be a candidate for advancement, and there was no rigid division between priesthood and laity, since all the faithful would at some time or other receive the priesthood. After the resurrection of Jesus, the saints had all things in common, still later they had, it seems, a voluntary system of tithing which, in the course of time, became in some cases a compulsory tax. "During the first two centuries the church service was reduced to the greatest simplicity. As to the ministers of the religious service, they lived from the common funds, doned their patrimony in order to live solely from the altar. Those who had not made a profession of renouncing their patrimony. Were understood thereby to have renounced their share in the ecclesia-with the poor." Many had abanastical distribution, and they placed the upkeep of the poorest to the charge of the rich clergy. Not a few, following the example of St. Paul worked with their own hands. In a word, 'The ecclesiastical patrimony was absolutely not to be 9360 distinguished from that of the poor'. "History of Dogma, vol. 1. P. 131. *Didache xii; Funk, Patres apost. 1, 30-32. "Mourret, Les Origines Chretiennes, p. 270. 523 The great mass of church-workers were unpaid, and the work of the church was performed in the early church with the same guarantee of sincerity, as today." Test of the sincerity of the missionary. The Didache" says: "Let my prophet coming to your house be received as the Lord. But let him remain one day only, and if it is absolutely necessary two days only, but if he remains three, he is a false prophet. In departing, let the apostle receive nothing, unless it be bread to reach the next station. If he asks for money, he is a false prophet." This is rigid, but it tested the sincerity of the "prophet." "In the Church founded by Joseph Smith, the sincerity of the members is tested by the unpopularity of the church and by tithing; and the work of the priesthood with the exception of a few is entirely unpaid (in exact correspondence with the usage of the Primitive Church); the sincerity of all those "Eusebius, Ecclesiastical History, V xxviii, 10: "These were both disciples of Theodotus the cobbler, who was first excommunicated by Victor, who, as I said, was then bishop, for this way of thinking, or rather of not thinking.