A Beam That Pierced By Dorothy Clapp Robinson One mile. Two miles. Janice walked rapidly. Little heat imps danced from sage to sage before her. Her jacket clung to her parched shoulders; and the powdery dust clung to her gauze hose. She tried to avoid the brush that snagged at her skirt. Another mile. She pulled her gloves from her hot hands and thrust them into her jacket pocket. With an immaculate handkerchief she wiped the dust from her eyes and from her dry lips. She looked back. The service station buildings danced weirdly with the heat. Her friends were there waiting with visible fortitude for tires to be sent out from Twin City. Doubtless they would question her absence. She wondered if the attendant had told them about the tires or the feed pipe. He looked like a good sport. Anyway it was five years this very day in May and she must have just one look. Another mile and she stood on the ridge that had beckoned, oh, long before they had reached the service station. She looked down over a gently sloping swale that to a casual observer would have seemed identical with-a thousands others here about. To her it was a spot set apart. Heat and solitude hung over it as usual. There was an air of desolation, from the brown of its once plowed acres down to the unexpected green of a lone tree. Once these acres had been fertile, productive; but now, abandoned by man, they had spurned the offspring of his dominance and boldly brought forth a new growth of sage between which wild mustard and tumbleweeds rioted. Suddenly Janice plunged down the hill heedless of clutching weeds and brush. Breathlessly she reached the dike that banked a small stream bed, dry now except for one stagnant pool. Slowly she registered each detail of the scene. The dam was crumbled in places. The sage they had planted to hold the dike was there, with bare branches and gray-green tufted tops. The wild roses from one tiny sprig had spread to cover half the inner slope of the bank. Their fragrance made her heart skip and plucking one blossom she turned toward the tree. For long moments she looked at it. Her hurry gone. She put out her hand and touched it's smooth bark. "A miracle," she whispered. "There would always be shade now." She dropped her eyes. At her feet a half tumbled-down seat flaunted patches of curled green paint. Stooping she examined the end board. There they were; W. W. In big bold strokes; beneath in small precise lines J. W., and then?and then, on her knees she traced with trembling fingers the small undecided lines that were also J. W. Hot scalding tears filled her eyes. They had been so happy then?she and Walt and Baby Janice. Until then their love had withstood the heat, the drought, the unloveliness; in all the world there had been just each other. Her eyes strayed to the northfacing slope but were instantly withdrawn. She arose and walked slowly about. Here had been the cellar. Its roof was gone and in one corner was heaped a few broken fruit jars, ghastly survivors of once glutted shelves. The shelves were gone, 546 prey to the ever fuel hunting sheep herders. The house was gone. The rocks that had been it's foundation were scattered about. Her eyes that had been soft grew hard. The house had been hauled away, easily, she knew?perhaps even on a hayrack. Why, when they used to have threshers she would move the cupboard and wash stand out and put planks kitty-cornered across the room to give them eating space. Good thing the bed had folded up. How horrible it had been. Men bolting the flat, insipid food. Even dishes were scarce. More than once Walt had had to eat from a pie tin and drink from a can. They had even managed to be boisterously gay about it; but then their eyes had been on the future; that future that year after year refused to be coaxed nearer. Between the cellar and the house she nearly stepped into a yawning cistern. It was full above the intake pipe and no cover. That was dangerous. She must tell Walt?well hardly?she hadn't had his address for four years. She walked up the south-facing slope to what had once been her chicken-house. She looked in. Incredibly a roll of net wire stood in one corner. Her throat caught. How many chickens the coyotes had taken; how many tears she had shed and what sacrifices they had made before that wire had been bought. She remembered the day as though it were yesterday. Walt shouldn't have left it here, either. He probably considered it hers. He was queer that way. Stubborn, too, as a mule, sometimes. Circling the ruin she came upon an unusually large sage. It's stringy bark and pungent silvered leaves cried out for remembrance. It was just as it had been, scarcely larger. Dusty, sweaty RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Unbelievable that the sheep herders had passed it by. A wind ruffled its leaves and a cloud of dust enveloped her. She looked up quickly. Overhead the sky was darkening and the distant roll of thunder came faintly to her ears. She had thought the unusual sultriness would breed a storm. How fine it would be. A good storm now would insure good crops and fill the reservoir for her garden. Her garden? Thank goodness not hers, but someone's. For her a garden was no longer the dividing line between life and mere existence. Something broke under her foot. She looked down and a sob that had embarrassed her air of indifference all day rose in her throat. The one doll in all the world that held memories for her. Its papier-mache' legs were bleached and brittle. One arm had crushed under her shoe. Its body was divested of stuffing, only here and there were particles of it visible; but its head?with careful fingers she tried to lift it but it crumbled under her touch, leaving only a pair of eyes. She held them in her hands, brown eyes connected with a Y-shaped wire with a blob of lead at the end. Again that sob rose and she fought it hard. There had been the three of them that last Christmas. From the time dolls were put on display she had watched this one. Its eyes were large and brown and startlingly human?when they moved. Their expression had led her to pay more for it than she could afford. The pup had carried it away and how Baby had cried. She had taken ill the next day. With her handkerchief Janice wiped away the dust and there they were?exactly the same. The lashes were scarcely harmed and the blob of lead just as it had been. It was queer about that lead, it ruled the A BEAM THAT PIERCED eyes. On it depended their usefulness, their expression and beauty. Without it they were merely pieces of glass. Holding them tightly in one hand she went directly to the slope beyond the dam. By a grave she stopped. A tiny grave inclosed by a tight board fence. She leaned heavily upon it. A border of iris, a scraggly lilac with half a dozen anemic blossoms accentuated rather than lessened the sense of desolation and abandon. Perhaps if she had been here to carry water the flowers would have flourished. "There will be others to help you forget," Walt had said that last Sunday in May five years ago. Her overwrought nerves had snapped. "Others," she had  screamed. "Others! To this desolation?this poverty?this burning hell?others! To be brown and rough and shabby. A class set apart! Natives! No, no, a thousand times no," and shrieking wildly she had fled over that selfsame rabbit path that had brought her back today. Walt had followed, of course, but she was through. Back among her own with her former work she had prospered. Time had soothed her jagged nerves but her heart was still sore at times. It was too much to suppose she could blot it entirely from her life. Wounds leave their scars always and like the lead on the doll's eyes color every hour of one's existence. A sudden thought came to her. Her associates, in their work, in their clubs prated much of their right to self-expression; their right to taste real life. Had she not when she was here lived deeper, felt more keenly? Here she had reached the heights and probed the depths. The dull lead of her surroundings had been the balance that had given her her chance for development. 547 A SHARP peal of thunder, a spattering of raindrops brought her suddenly to the present. She must rush like mad or she would make them all late for that evening session. She started up the slope but a sudden downpour checked her. It would be better to wait until the shower was over. Head bent to the wind she dashed to the chicken house. There she waited. She hoped feverishly that it wouldn't last long but what a Godsend to the parched earth it would be if it did. Parched. Her eyes swept the drenched slopes. Already a soft green mist was replacing their dusty gray. Here and there showed brightening patches of color. The stream bed had miraculously sprung to life and to her nostrils came the once-familiar scent of a revivified earth. Janice breathed deeply. Why couldn't it always be so beautiful. She looked at the sky. South and west it was dense and dark, lit by occasional vivid flashes. It looked like an all night affair. What would she do? It had turned cold, too. In her damp clothes she shivered. Her old dread of being alone on the place returned. The splashy beat of horses hoofs brought an instant's relief, then panic. She hoped it was not a Basco sheep herder or one of those mythical characters that to her mind had always roamed these slopes. Even a neighbor would mean embarrassment. She held her breath and crouched into the farthest corner. A sharp "whoa" and a man darted through the low door. In one hand he carried a huge spray of wild phlox and buttercups. The woman caught her breath sharply. He wheeled. Incredulity was quickly replaced by stark vivid joy. "Janice;" his hungry arms reached for her then with remembrance 548 they dropped. "You here!" "Yes, I came about an hour ago." She hoped her voice sounded casual, inconsequential. She must not show concern; but her eyes noted quickly the damp coat, the wet hair that he pushed restlessly back from his face. He had never been one to wear a hat. "But?how?" "T walked from the Service Station. We were on our way to a Club Convention at Twin City." "But why come here?" Her eyes sought the slope then came back to his bouquet. "T came for the same as you?" with a nod toward the little grave. He, too, looked toward the slope. They looked in silence; then pressently his eyes strayed to her face and he breathed quickly. "You are beautiful, Janice, as always." "As always?" He nodded; "Yes, always beautiful." She laughed rather wildly. "Walt, what are you saying? Beautiful! I was brown, shabby, hair stringy, nails broken? "TI know, but you were so gallant, so heart warming. I suppose I should have seen how you felt but I was too smug; too accustomed to it all. Perhaps I wouldn't let myself see until that last day?" That last day. They had been at the little grave planting the iris and lilac when he had made that luckless remark about others. Heat, isolation, uncertainty of income; and then sorrow had done their worst. Walt's remark had been the one thing too much. Now he was saying she had been beautiful and heartwarming. She clutched the doll's eyes tightly. Outside the storm had turned to a cold drizzle; but a sudden clap of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE thunder crashed through the swale lending renewed energy to the rain. She shivered. He remembered she was afraid of storms and stepped nearer. His face was drawn and gray. Taking a flower from his spray she plucked the yellow petals and dropped them one by one. He said doggedly: "I lost my job." "I'm sorry." "You needn't be. I have at last come home to stay. Others will come, too, now that jobs are gone?" Janice stared hard into the storm. He had come back. Some day another woman would stand by his side helping to fight the drought, the loneliness. Would he call her heart-warming? Walt was continuing: ?'"'with a flock of sheep?a few cows?turkeys?our own garden, we will?" Our garden. Perhaps he was already married. There would be "others," Walt's but not hers. "T have bought the Burke place?"' Bought the Burke place! Joining this on the west; it had precious spring water?enough for a little hay, trees, berries, grass?; a house that was not too small. She grasped his arm. "Walt?did you?is there?someone?" His mouth went hard. "There has always been?someone." Anger swept reason away. That had been their dream. She cried: "How dare you. That was my dream as well as your's. None other has the right;" bursting into wild sobs she threw herself against him. "Don't, Walt," she pleaded. 'Don't bring her here. She wouldn't understand. She doesn't know about the lone tree, the wild roses on the dam?the little grave. They are my memories to share with you?if it isn't too late." A BEAM THAT PIERCED His eyes flamed. His arms circled and crushed her tight. Huis desperate lips found hers. "Janice, you can't mean it?it's too good. Nights without numbers I've lain awake dreaming you came back; dreaming you were beside me?' The flowers had dropped to the ground. His eye caught them and reason returned. "No, no, it can't be." He thrust her arms away. "It wouldn't do. Life here will be much the same. I have my hopes, my dreams but you know how elusive our dreams were before. I have heard of your success and I couldn't let you come back to?this. Besides?"' his strong voice broke, "I couldn't stand losing you again, Janice. It does something to a man?he just can't fight. Better to dream of heaven than to taste and lose." "See;" she held the doll's eyes before him. "You remember these ?that last Christmas? I found them a few minutes ago; you remember how beautiful they were?how ex549 pressive? Then this lead fell off and the eyes were lifeless, always the same. I had to remove the head so you could solder the lead back. With it as a balance the eyes came to life. The doll was again a thing of beauty. Don't you see??" He was again holding her close but his eyes showed bewilderment. Her arms slipped around his neck and drew his face down. "Can't you see, Dear? Where I work we are all beautiful; there is nothing to make us otherwise but there no one calls me gallant. I need this lead?" with a sweeping gesture?''to give me balance; to help me to really live. Perhaps that is why I came. You remember? "'Vet a beam that pierced, and a thrill that smote Called me, and drew me from far away." Outside the storm raged giving promise of life and wealth to the dry earth. Cheek to cheek they watched?giving silent promises of love and life.