Notes from the Field COTTONWOOD STAKE PAGEANT Cottonwood Stake: "THE above picture represents President Lavina H. McMillan of the Cottonwood Stake, President Louise Y. Robison, and the brothers and sisters who participated in a splendid pageant showing the various activities of the Relief Society throughout its entire organization. In the reports that came into the office of the Ninety-second Anniversary Celebration of the Relief Society organization, none seem to be more beautiful and typical than that given by the Cottonwood Stake Board, on Friday, March 16, 1934. The playlet was built around the motto of the Relief Society, "Charity Never Faileth." The entertainment was divided into seven divisions, known as "The Elect Lady," and pictured the seven Presidents. Epoch 1 was the inception of the organization, featuring Emma REPRESENTATIVES OF THE SEVEN PRESIDENTS AND THE  PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH NOTES FROM THE FIELD Smith as the central figure; Epoch 2 was twenty-two years later, and presented Eliza R. Snow, who was called upon to travel and organize the women of Zion; Epoch 3, featured Zina D. H. Young and the World's Fair of 1893; Epoch 4, the opening of the offices in the Bishop's Building, with Bathsheba W. Smith, President; Epoch 5, concerning the Wheat with Emmeline B. Wells as the central figure; Epoch 6, the establishment of Baby Clinics and the Wheat Trust Fund under Clarissa S. Williams; Epoch 7, the erection of the monument on the site of the organization in Nauvoo, with President Louise Y. Robison. Union Stake: "T'HE Union Stake had a most * successful year in the development of the lesson program, and showed an increased activity among the sisters in lesson discussion. This fine result was obtained by assigning certain parts of the lesson to the different members, and asking them to reproduce it in their own words. The President writes: "This year we are stressing a program to stimulate interest in reading the Magazine. Our plan is for the Magazine agent to have charge of the program on Work and Business day. This program need not always be a formal recitation of stories, poetry, etc., but may be arranged as a game?such as a series of questions on articles contained in the Magazine, something like a spellingbee, with the sisters on different sides, or, with the help of others, the Magazine agent may hold the conversation to topics on the Magazine or related subjects, and encourage activity on the part of some sisters who are frightened to take part in a more formal program." 551 Granite Stake A DELIGHTFUL reception and testimonial was held on the evening of June 26, 1934, in the Granite Stake Tabernacle. The occasion was in honor of the retiring Relief Society Stake President and her Board. Sister Emmaretta G. Brown had been president of Granite Stake Relief Society for eleven years. Sister Myrtle B. Latimer, who succeeds Sister Brown, assisted by Sisters Angeline H. Earl and Nellie O. Parker, counselor, and the Ward Relief Societies, were hostesses. Representatives from the General Relief Society Board, Stake Presidency, High Council and Bishops spoke of Sister Brown's splendid achievements. Sister Earl presented her with a beautiful silver basket which was then filled with roses by the Ward Presidents who gave sentiments relative to Sister Brown's faith, humility, foresight. Progressiveness, womanliness and executive ability. Members of each Ward had been assigned seats, and as the Ward President made her presentation the members of her ward rose to do honor to one so dearly loved. Sister Parker presented the retiring board members with tokens made of Utah copper. Especially beautiful music was furnished by the Bel Canto Ladies' Chorus, Sister Nellie Priestly, organist, and Sister Agnes Bolto. After the program, a reception and dance were held in the foyer and amusement hall. HE last union meeting of the year, on May 24, was turned into a social honoring the Ward Presidents. Sister Latimer conducted an airport idea which ultimately turned into a charming pageant of "Service." During the whole year the Stake Board had saved and planned to make this party 552 a success and their plans certainly materialized beautifully. | Sister Nellie Parker, as "Service," assisted by three golden "Sunbeams" and a gold and blue airplane, paid well deserved honor to the Presidents, with clever eulogies and a gift for each ward room. President Louise Y. Robison and Sister Brown were surprised with remembrances also. Members of the General Board, Stake Presidency and eiePs were special guests. Curlew Stake HAT the commandment, '"'Honor thy father and thy mother" has struck deep into the hearts of Relief Society women, is evidenced in the account which follows: Father's Day was pleasantly celebrated in Curlew Stake. The Stake Relief Society, the Y. W. M. I. A. And Primary Boards arranged a special program for the occasion, which was held on the regular monthly Union Meeting Day. The fathers had seats of honor and enjoyed the addresses and musical numbers. After the program, the fathers and the rest of the congregation, between three and four hundred people, were served with delicious refreshments. All voted it a most successful occasion. Blaine Stake A MOST excellent Institute for Better Homes and Interior Decoration was held at Richfield, Idaho, June 26, 1934. This special project was patterned as nearly as could be after the one held by the  during April Conference. The Institute began with a short program. The Stake Board and Richfield Ward served refreshments at noon, after which a short social and getacquainted hour was enjoyed. This. Was followed by a Presidents' Meeting RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE when the project under consideration was discussed. Each of the ten wards brought some interesting article to demonstrate. The response to the invitation was excellent, and everyone seemed to receive new and valuable information from this interchange of ideas. From the folders received during conference they obtained addresses of several of the business houses, and wrote to these. They were most responsive to the requests and sent booklets and many valuable suggestions. These were distributed among the wards. From noon the time was spent in demonstrating different wares and articles. The Secretary writes: "We hope much good will come from this project, and we believe it will, as each ward expressed ' appreciation and promised to carry out the suggestions received. There were more than sixty of our leaders present, some coming a distance of eighty miles to participate. It is a sacrifice for mothers to come from so far away, but they enjoyed the contact with the other sisters, and in spite of obstacles the sisters felt happy and abundantly repaid for the efforts they make to participate in the Relief Society activities." Nevada Stake ONCE again our attention is called to the fact that the training received in Relief Society is an excellent preparation for civic activities. The following account, clipped from a Nevada newspaper is an indication of this. Mrs. E. E. Hinckley is the Nevada Stake Social Service Leader, and the President writes that her work has been outstanding, which is borne out by the following. She has been appointed County 'Director and General Supervisor over all women's work within White Pine County. Her problem will be to see that every NOTES FROM THE FIELD woman certified for work in this county is placed. 'Sewing, remodeling of garments, library work, clerical and general utility projects will be established first. Immediately following this, vocational sewing classes will be established in Ely and McGill. Open to girls and women wishing and needing the instruction. Local club women have been asked to assist with these classes. Through this effort it is planned that each family These classes will be 553 may be well and comfortably clothed through its own efforts. Tentative plans for establishing of opportunity classes for the children of working mothers or relief families. Are being made. The classes will consist of supervised. Play, handcraft and building up of weak spots in school work. Single women with no other income will receive 42 hours work per month. Women with dependents and no other income will receive 54 hours.