Natalius was persuaded by them to be called bishop of this heresy with a salary, so that he was paid a hundred and fifty denarii a month by them." Note of the translator, Kirsopp Lake: "That is rather more than ?5. This is the first clear instance of the payment of bishops, but compare ch. Xviii, 2." Ch. Xviii, 2: "Then he goes on saying: 'Does not all Scripture seem to you to forbid a prophet from receiving gifts and money? Therefore when I see that the prophetess has received gold and silver and expensive cores, how shall I refrain from blaming her?' Didcache, ch. Xi, v. 3, presumably 80-100 524 who receive some remuneration has been previously tested over a period of years by the payment of tithing and unpaid service in the church. Further, why be insincere? It is impossible for anyone to be a candidate for an office or to seek advancement and, if advancement comes, it brings only opportunity for more unpaid service. Thus by removing all selfish main-springs of action? desire for gain, ambition?-sincerity has been safeguarded on every side. Without sincerity, religion is a vain word; but outside the Church, no religious organization has any machinery for adequately testing it." 8 Article in November Relief Society Magasine. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The cumulative evidence of the divine calling of Joseph Smith. The fact that the Church has the same tests of sincerity as in the Primitive Church; that it harmonizes and illuminates what is known concerning the organization and customs of the Primitive Church; that it secures unity through the direction of the Holy Ghost, reconciling the contradictory principles of authority and the liberty of the individual; and that it clarifies historical details otherwise obscure?this cumulative evidence is the strongest kind of proof of the divine calling of Joseph Smith. Fifty-Fifty By Delphia H. Cragun house. Preparations were well in hand for the big meal of the day?dinner. The old Boyd farm-house was a large, square, frame building, which nestled in the family orchard. It was the climax to a long struggle for Mr. And Mrs. William Boyd, especially Mrs. Boyd who had sacrificed for twenty-five years in order that this wonderful house might be built. Most of the large family of fifteen boys and girls had already married and had homes of their own. Mrs. Boyd lived only two years after the building was completed, just long enough to make new rugs and linens, carpets and curtains to meet the needs of such a home, and lastly to see her two youngest children married and move away. After Mrs. Boyd's death, Mr. Boyd still looked upon the home as his crowning glory, and was soon casting his glances about to find a new wife to care for his needs and especially the home. Mr. William Boyd was a kindly old gentleman, but in him were rooted the traditions and usages of a long line of English ancestors. His small stature and comely mien belied his conduct in his -home, for wasn't he truly the head of the house? Weren't all questions of import decided by him? This day was no exception for he left the field early and came to the house to set the good wife, Mahala, and his home in order. Mahala was a short, stout, redhaired woman, who had only recently come from England. She had lived forty-five years in single blessedness and then by some queer co]: was noon at the Boyd farmincidence had met Mr. William Boyd who had only recently become a widower. After meeting Mahala, Mr. Boyd had made quick work of their courtship and Mahala married him for better or worse. She. Explained she was getting along in life and needed a home. Mr. Boyd explained he was sadly in need of a house-keeper to take care of the home. The neighbors had their explanations, also; many and varied were the excuses for Mr. Boyd's marriage. Some said he was so lonely, and they were sure his wife wouldn't want him to live alone in the big house; and besides, he would make this poor lonely old maid a good husband. Another said that he should have waited, at least a year, before marrying. And others felt it would have looked better if he had married the widow Hillcrest. One was sure that Mr. Boyd couldn't be in love with Mahala and that it was merely a business transaction. However, the fact remained that Mr. William Boyd had proclaimed his love to Mahala, and that they were united in the holy bonds of matrimony. WHEN Mr. Boyd came in from the field, he found Mahala rushing madly around the kitchen in her haste to prepare the dinner. Her face was scarlet, her hair, somewhat ruffled, and her feet were tired and sore. She did not greet him with the usual good-natured smile, for she had been meditating on what had happened during the two months she had been Mrs. William Boyd. She reflected that Mr. Boyd had been very profuse in bestowing endearing 526 terms upon her; had even gone so far as to refer to her as mistress of her own little home, but in reality she was just a servant with never a minute to call her own. It is true Mr. William Boyd had a wood-pile back of the shed about a half-mile from the house, but Mahala carried the wood from the wood-pile to the house; the well was out in the garden where the old home had been, and Mahala carried many, many buckets of water to supply the home, and this unassisted by anyone. Mahala had been married three weeks when an Interurban Railroad project was launched and the men who were working near by had asked for board and lodging. This Mr. Boyd graciously offered them and just as graciously took the money without so much as handing Mahala one penny. At first Mahala had given this very little thought, but when she needed a dollar or two and she had to ask her husband, William, for it, it had set her thinking and thinking. However, she could not devise any definite plan of action. It was while Mahala was in this frame of mind that Mr. Boyd made his appearance. "Well, Mahala, my darling, what seems to be wrong with you, my lass?" said William after noting Mahala's changed attitude. "Oh, I'm a bit tired and weary. There seems to be so much to do," replied Mahala. "T'm surprised you are tired after having such a good night's rest. You never have any wood to chop and. The garden and well are near by. At least they are no farther than would serve to get you out in the fresh air. I buy all the groceries and household needs, and I'm sure you should be grateful for that," said Mr. Boyd. At this moment, there was a knock RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE on the door and Mr. Boyd hurried to answer the same. To his great surprise and gratification he stood face to face with the superintendent of the new railroad, Mr. Billings, who was there for a day's inspection of the road. He asked to speak to the lady of the house. Mr. Boyd assured him he could act in his wife's stead, for she was very busy at that moment preparing the men's dinner. However, Mr. Billings insisted and Mahala came shyly to the door. "Mrs. Boyd, I am Mr. Billings, the superintendent of the new railroad. I came to ask if you would mind if I have dinner here today. I realize you have not had time to prepare extra, and I hope my having dinner with you will not inconvenience you.' "Why, it's perfectly all right with me, but I'll have to ask my husband," said Mahala. 'He always decides such as that." "Well," said Mr. Billings, "if you are willing, I shall consider it all right with Mr. Boyd. After all, you are the one who does the cooking and serving; so, I'll go back to the men and will come to dinner with them." As Mahala entered the kitchen, Mr. Boyd said, "And what did the grand gentleman have to say to you?" "Oh, he asked if he might have dinner here with the men today, and I said he might." "Don't you think it would have looked a bit better if you had said, 'I'll ask my husband'?" "That is exactly what I did say but he assured me that if it was all right with me, that no further arrangement was necessary." There was no more time for argument, so each set about his work. Mr. William Boyd, as usual, was checking up on his wife while she FIFTY-FIFTY did the work. He casually noted there would have to be another place at the table, which Mahala arranged. At this moment, twenty-one hungry men, including the superintendent, were hastening down the hill toward the Boyd home. They were met by the gentle breezes, laden with the savory odors of roast-chicken, potatoes, peas, corn, rolls and lemon pie, all of which quickened their pace. Mahala was an excellent cook, although her husband often explained to her that he thought she might get along with a little less on her menu, and that the food was served a bit too dainty; the men ate more than if the food were of a coarse type. Mahala heard his complaints but was still of the firm conviction that her meals were the kind the men enjoyed, and she continued to serve food fit for a king. SOON all was in readiness and the men rushed in, washed, and were seated at the table. Mr. William Boyd gave the orders and Mahala carried them out, but. It seemed to him, not so willingly as before. He boasted to Mr. Billings of his wonderful home, the farm, and everything in general; not forgetting to mention the most excellent meals he served. The conversation shifted from one group to another and finally dessert was served, and dinner was over. One of the foremen rose and to the utter astonishment of Mr. Boyd suggested they give Mrs. Boyd nine cheers for her excellent meals; after which they asked her if they might stay still longer, although the work was shifting some distance away. At this moment Mahala felt her whole being tingle, and she felt as she had never felt before; that she really was an individual apart from Mr. Boyd. She told them that they might stay longer, without so much 527 as thinking to ask her "Lord and Master," who at that moment was looking very worried and chagrined. It was the week end and pay day, so Mr. William Boyd drew a pad and pencil from his pocket and prepared to check up the board and room, but no one seemed to notice him. Mr. Billings stepped forward and paid Mahala for his meal, and the other followed by handing her that week's pay. As they left, each bowed or said something to Mr. Boyd and his wife. When all had gone, Mahala looked straight at her husband, who was evidently figuring out how he would approach her, for in someway he must get the money she was in possession of. He knew that Mahala had undergone a change and he feared to disturb the turbulent waters. He cautiously began, "Well, my dear, I sure am glad the boys paid, for I have a place for every cent of that money. I must get supplies for next week?meat and groceries, pay the light bill, and get a new suit. You sure are a fine wife and help-mate." And at that he came toward Mahala. "Yes, we surely can make good use of this money," agreed Mahala. "I have been figuring up the last few days and from my figures I discover that after all expenses are taken out, there will be between fifty and sixty dollars a month left for us. I will go to town with you and give you one half of what is left after I have purchased the supplies." Mr. Boyd was standing in the center of the room with a most surprised look on his face. He made a gesture as if to speak, but Mahala continued, "I know this is the way you have wanted to arrange things before, fifty-fifty, but you needed me to work it out for you. You need a new suit and I need so many things I haven't time to mention them all, but at any rate we will be 528 able to get these things and many more. And hereafter, Mr. William Boyd, when you tell me that I am the best wife and helpmate in the whole world, I will know you have made no mistake." He was weak and helpless. He sat down and in the few minutes he pondered, he wondered, first, how RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Mahala dared to be so disrespectful; and second, he thought of hundreds of things he had so selfishly done. Mahala came to his side and began to talk and plan with him for the trip to town. Among other things, they decided that after the boarders had left their home, a long trip to the coast would be a fitting honeymoon.