Citizenship?Responsibilities and Privileges By Annie Wells Cannon CITIZENSHIP is a challenge. It is a gift of the nation to its sons and daughters. Citizenship is not a natural gift, with which one is born, neither is it acquired with labor or purchased with wealth. To the native-born it comes automatically at the age of 21. To the foreign-born it is granted by expressed request after a set period of residence in this country and some knowledge of constitutional government on the part of the individual. The status of citizenship demands more than just to be a law abiding citizen, it demands participation in public affairs. It is intelligent citizenship that proves patriotism. True, many people have rendered fine service in building community life without the privilege of the franchise, as was notably the case with the women of the nation who notwithstanding ability, loyalty and education were barred from political freedom on account of sex until 1920. The passage of the 19th or Susan B. Anthony Amendment was indeed a challenge to the women of the United States. This challenge has been generally accepted with understanding and gratitude. Many schools and clubs have been established in order to gain correct knowledge of government, to study political science and become intelligent voters. The responsibilities of citizenship are many, and they are grave. The good citizen accepts this fact, for thereby the best of life's privileges and its truest rewards are obtained. IN St. Paul's Cathedral, above the monument of Sir Christopher Wren, who rebuilt London after the great fire of 1666, is inscribed this legend: "If you would see his monument, look around you." This legend may be any man's or woman's whose keen sense for honest endeavor in community welfare makes one public spirited. Scarcely a community, however small, but points with pride to the name of at least one person whose service has been outstanding in promoting some activity for the benefit of the people. As the great composer, Richard Wagner in choosing his home city, Beyreuth, in which to build his theatre and demonstrate to the world the beauty of music-drama, made that city the mecca for all music lovers, so have countless others made small and large communities famous through 'civic loyalty. There is a mountain valley town in Utah, where on a public square 512 has been erected a monument to its first school teacher, a pioneer mother, Mary Jane Dilworth Hammond ?whose services were such that she could never be forgotten. Springville, a town set like a gem in the heart of the Wasatch mountains, has become widely known as an art center because its inhabitants have unitedly fostered and encouraged an artistic atmosphere. This town supports an art gallery and holds annual exhibits to which come hundreds of visitors and always do the town people point with pride to the pictures of their native sons. And daughters whose works have become well-known. There may be seen choice pictures of Hafen, Harwood, Evans and others while in the city park are statues and fountains designed by no less an artist than Cyrus E. Dallin. As one passes along the way the home of J. J. McClellan, organist and composer, or Hannah Cornaby, poet, or others of note may be pointed out, each one a talented contributor and loyal citizen. It is due to the public spirited citizens of this town that her gifted children are remembered and the cultural, artistic and healthful beauty of the place maintained. One might enumerate examples indefinitely to prove that happiness and success are obtained by entering the game of building up, not holding aloof or tearing down. Real thrills come through accomplishment. THE home, that institution out of which has grown the deepest and longest experience of the human race is no longer an isolated and in'dependent estate, even in pioneer lands. There are no more frontiers, because of modern communication and invention. Then, too, suffrage economic conditions, and educational privileges have so altered and broadened man's perspective that it RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE has become imperative for one to have relation to, and interest in community life. There is, therefore, an almost mandatory need for cooperation to obtain the best results in the "art of living." Today we belong to a family group, to a city or township, to a state or nation. The city or township has most to do with our health and education, the state makes the laws for our security, the nation safeguards our liberties and regulates our larger activities. In consideration of these facts a certain degree of political education is necessary to maintain proper rule and order by the people and the ballot 'is the power of control. IT is inherent in every Latter-day Saint to honor and respect authority both of the Church and of the government. This people have always been taught that the Constitution of the United States is a divinely inspired instrument. The 12th article of their faith is, "We believe in being subject to kings, presidents, rulers and magistrates, in obeying, honoring and sustaining the law," or in other words we believe in being loyal citizens. By the use of the ballot one has the power to express a choice, not only for the officers that are to govern but for the form of government one may prefer. The franchise is the voice of the people and when one fails to use that power he denies himself an inalienable right. The good citizen not only recognizes the duties and obligations of the franchise but appreciates its advantages and privileges, while the indifferent citizen may lose opportunities and frequently incurs unnecessary expense and embarrassment. This was the case' of the man who lived a number of years in this country and had a family of children, before CITIZENSHIP taking out his citizenship papers. One day a census enumerator came to the door and in obtaining dates and figures discovered there were four members of the family who were over 21 years of age at the time the father became a citizen and never looking into the matter themselves, these children just assumed they were legal voters, also one of them held an elective office. When this was made known it became necessary for all four of these children to take out naturalization papers and of course the one in office was forced to retire. In this case there may have been the excuse of not understanding, but that was not so in the case of another man of foreign birth who felt he preferred the English government and refused to become naturalized. He was a prominent business man and married an American girl, who through that marriage lost her citizenship, until the Equal Rights party was instrumental within recent years to change the law. This man became a stockholder in a large business corporation and was ambitious to be one of the directors. It happened that one requirement for directorship was citizenship. Then he was greatly embarrassed, as were his children, to discover that they, too, though native born and recipients of free education in the schools, had not the right to vote. Many citizens are also careless about their registration. They let the days, set by the officers when the books are open to check on themselves, pass by, thinking, of course, "I can vote, I always do," but do they? There have been many instances when a vote has been challenged because the name has been left off the list. A very active political worker had that experience. She was ill on one election day and did not'vote. In making up the lists the following year her name was left 513 off. Had she inquired on registration day, everything would have been all right, but she had forgotten. Her vote was challenged. There was nothing she could do. Frequently there is dissatisfaction and complaint after the party tickets are in the field. A fact which need not obtain if all citizens would realize that the Primary affords every one a choice of delegates to the convention where the candidates are named and the ticket formed. It is a salient fact, that far too. Often the Primary?the people's own meeting, is left in the hands of the local politician, who knows his opportunity and controls the group; consequently his delegates are at the convention, the election follows. The ticket may not. Be the most desirable but if not the dissatisfied parties lost their chance when they failed to attend the Primary. TO many people public affairs, especially public office, is distasteful. At the same time a certain knowledge of the laws and ordinances is a necessity in order to carry on any kind of business or conduct one's individual affairs. The very air we breathe, the water we drink, the milk and other food necessities, the care of waste material, and all those things pertaining to the health and safety of family and community life are more or less regulated through law and order; the more the better, the less, the more disastrous. To see that these things are properly regulated are some of the privileges of citizenship and numerous others pertaining to the culture, beauty and pleasure of the community are within reach where citizens are aware, awake, and cooperative. Many farms, houses, villages or towns lie where smoke or particles 514 from smelters or factories so poison the air that even vegetation dies. How dangerous, therefore, to the delicate organs of the human system. ~Water, the most vital thing in a community, is sometimes full of impurities, often wasted, and occasionally the subject of dispute, even to a point of tragedy. Milk and other food supplies unless properly inspected and cared for may be a source of epidemic or death instead of sustenance and appetizing pleasure and so on, through a list of many and varied life-giving sources, the good citizen with vision and desire for public welfare averts disaster, remedies evil, and attains the best possible conditions for himself and others. The church is always a help in community life, because the spark of divinity which gives one faith helps to perfection in result. The Latter-day Saint communities which are notable for the rapidity of growth and acquisition of many privileges, center almost entirely around the Church which is the motivating power both without RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and within and as a people one finds cooperation and enthusiasm in forwarding all the advantages and privileges of community life. IT is a most fortunate community whose citizens seek to obtain health, education, beauty, and protection for its inhabitants; whose citizens are aware of, and care for the natural resources and study to obtain good schools, public libraries, social centers, build good roads, plant trees and gardens, have parks, public amusements and see that they are properly supervised and at the same time are aware of dangers by neglect or difficulties that may confront them. Such a community would be an Arcadia. It is not impossible, and is worth the effort. Even an approach to such a condition might be a good experiment. The person, aware of opportunities, and mindful of the duties and responsibilities of citizenship and willing to serve for the common good is the true patriot. Of such a one it may well be said, "Look around and behold his monument."