Lesson Department Theology and Testimony (First Week in November) ALLEGIANCE TO THE CHURCH Ecclesiastical Authority. Outstanding among all the characteristics of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is the claim that its authority to act in the name of God was received from heavenly personages empowered by the Messiah himself. A few other churches, including the Eastern Orthodox, the Roman Catholic, and the Episcopalian, assert that their authority comes from the apostles of Christ or through the bishops of Rome. Other churches claim authority through the Bible, others through the so-called vested rights of the individual, while many others claim no authority at all. The Latter-day Saints assert that as early as 1829 John the Baptist appeared to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery, and ordained them to the Aaronic Priesthood, and that a little later the Melchizedek Priesthood was restored through the angelic administration of Peter, James and John. Still later certain keys of the Priesthood were given by Elijah, Elias, Moses, and others. With the most painstaking care this authority to act in the name of God has been conferred by one individual to another until at present there are thousands within the Church who possess it, in various degrees and with various responsibilities. The Priesthood is of such paramount importance to the Church that without it authority to act in the name of God would disappear, and the Church itself would be more or less indistinguishable from other ecclesiastical organizations. Indeed, if the Church were stripped of its Priesthood, there would be little excuse for its existence, other than for general moral purposes. The Latterday Saints understand this, and therefore they regard the Priesthood as the choicest gift of God, indispensable not only to the Church but also to their own salvation. Leaders Divinely Chosen. With reference to the authority of the Holy Priesthood, the apostle Paul said: "No man taketh this honor unto himself, but he that is called of God as was Aaron." (Hebrews 5:4) The manner in which Aaron was chosen is recorded in the twentyeighth chapter of Exodus, first verse. This is the word of the Lord to Moses, chosen by divine command as leader of the people: "Take thou unto thee Aaron thy brother, and his sons with him, from among the children of Israel, that he may minister unto me in the priest's office." It is a doctrine of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints that its leaders are chosen by inspiration from God. Men of themselves do not possess sufficient wisdom to make the proper selection. Moreover, when men are thus chosen Deity will give with them his Spirit, and thus make them equal to every requirement exacted of them. If, however, men are self-appointed, they have claim to no such promise. Voice of the People. The best regard which Deity has for his children is shown in the fact that the individuals selected by him to be 558 leaders must be acceptable to the people before they are called to preside. This was made known very early in the history of the Church, indeed, a few days preceding its organization. (See Doc. And Cov. 20: 63-67) When the Church was formally organized, April 6, 1830, Joseph called upon those present to know whether they were willing to sustain him and Oliver Cowdery as the presiding officers of the Church. It was not until after an affirmative vote was given that they were ordained to this position. (See History of Church, Vol. I, p. 77) That these men were called of God is shown by his own statement as follows: "There shall be a record kept among you; and in it thou shalt be called a seer, a translator, a prophet, an apostle of Jesus Christ, an elder of the Church through the will of God the Father, and the grace of your Lord Jesus Christ. Wherefore it behooveth me that he should be ordained by you, Oliver Cowdery, mine apostle." (Doc. And Cov., Section 21) Following this practice, established and ordained of the Lord, the Latter-day Saints are now given frequent opportunities for expressing their approval or disapproval of their presiding officers. Votes are called for, not only when the leaders are selected, but at numerous times during their terms of office. The procedure is well known among the Latter-day Saints and  therefore needs no description here. Thus an individual may attain leadership only after he is called of God, approved by the people, and duly set apart by those having the divine right so to do. What Approval Entails. Approval of those selected of the Lord is far more than a perfunctory raising of the right hand. It is a solemn agreement with God, executed in the presence RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of the congregation. In its essential form the condition is this: Deity has selected an individual for a specific position, and has instructed that his choice be submitted to the people for their action. Thus when the member raises his hand in approval, he becomes a co-partner with God in his selection, and thereby tacitly agrees to do everything within his power for the success of the one thus mutually chosen. Moreover, this covenant is made in the presence of witnesses, both human and divine. Such a pledge cannot be broken or even regarded lightly with impunity. The manner in which Deity respects appointments of this nature is well shown by his statement concerning the Prophet Joseph, as follows: "Wherefore, meaning the church, thou shalt give heed unto all his words and commandments, which he shall give unto you as he receiveth them, walking in all holliness before me; for his word 'ye shall receive, as if from mine own mouth, in all patience and faith." (Doc. And Cov. 21:4, 5) Again: "Whosoever receiveth my word receiveth me, and whosoever receiveth me receiveth those, the First Presidency, whom I have sent, whom I have made counselors for my name's sake unto you." (Doc. And Cov. 112: 20) Surely, when God respects his appointments in this manner, no doubt can exist concerning the responsibility of those who pledge themselves to support his selections. Violation of the Covenant. Perhaps two things are chiefly responsible for the violation of this pledge, namely: (1) failure to understand its full import, and (2) widespread tendency to criticize the acts of others. The first can ordinarily be overcome by proper explanation; the second is more difficult to eradicate. The individual should not permit his LESSON DEPARTMENT approval of Church leaders to become formal or perfunctory. This covenant should be made with full knowledge of its meaning and sanctity. When this is done it will seldom be violated. In the second case, there are some who appear to think that by criticizing others they may elevate themselves. Indeed, the spirit of criticism is an admission of supposed self-superiority. | Humble people never engage in fault-finding: this is done only by those who are convinced of their own excellence. Criticism, such as this, is a mark of weakness, not of strength. It should scarcely be expected that an individual can violate his covenant with God and remain immune to the consequences. Deity does not remain bound in such cases. God's promises to his children are predicated upon obedience. Here are his words: "I, the Lord, am bound when ye do what I say; but when ye do not what I say, ye have no promise." (Doc. And Cov. 82:10) Accordingly, when an individual covenants, with uplifted hand, to support those whom the Lord has chosen, and subsequently violates his agreement, he cannot hope to retain divine favor. It is not strange therefore than when an individual acquires the habit of criticizing Church authorities, the Spirit of the Lord is withdrawn from him, and if he does not reform, he will sooner or later lose his testimony of the truth. There is probably no surer way to lose interest in the Church than to criticize its leaders. Duty of Parents. Parents can perform a great service to their children in this connection. Children should be taught the sanctity of the covenant involved in sustaining Church leaders. They should come to recognize this covenant as a privilege and an obligation?a privilege in joining with God in the selection 559 of those who are to lead Israel, and an obligation to make the work of those thus selected most successful. They must come to know that they have no right to criticize, and if they do so, they have violated their agreement and grieved the Spirit of God. Perhaps most of all, parents themselves should never be guilty of fault-finding, for children learn even more quickly by example than by word. If parents deliberately planned to drive their children from the Church they could scarcely resort to a more effective measure than criticism of its leaders. The Church President. The Lord has made it very clear that there is only one person upon the earth at a time who has the right to receive revelation for the guidance of the Church. Here are his words: "I have appointed unto my servant Joseph to hold this power in the last days, and there is never but one on the earth at a time on whom this power and the keys of this priesthood are conferred." (Doc. And Cov. 132:7) The responsibility for the guidance of the Church thus rests upon the President, and not upon its individual members; they are given neither the power nor the responsibility. They have covenanted, however, to uphold the President and to sustain him in all his endeavors to promote the cause of righteousness. On the other hand, Deity will hold them responsible for this promise. He expects the members of the Church to receive the teachings of the President as if they came from his own mouth. (Doc. And Cov. 21:5) According to the teachings of the Latter-day Saints the President of the Church in this day holds the same power and responsibility as did the Prophet Joseph; and it accordingly behooves the members of the Church to give him the same respect and support. Noth560 ing less is acceptable to God. The members of the Church are required to give their allegiance not only to their President, but to every individual endowed with responsibility, from the greatest to the very least. Even the deacon who calls at the door must be treated with courtesy and respect. Every individual who is called to the work of Christ is entitled to the support of those with whom he is laboring. Suggestions for Diesen and ? Review 1. Contrast the authority held by RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE our church leaders with that held by the leaders of other religious denominations. 2. Why is it necessary in your judgment that Church leaders should be divinely chosen? 3. Why do you suppose that God requires Church leaders to be submitted to the vote of the people? 4. In what way does a member of the Church injure himself by criticizing his leaders? May he also injure others? How? 5. How can the Relief Society assist in promoting allegiance to the Church and to its leaders? Teachers' Topic HALLOWEEN CTOBER and Halloween, one suggests the other. Coming as it does the last night of October, preceding All Saints' Day, is reason for its name?All Hallow Even or Halloween. Like many other holidays it has been inherited from Pagan times. In part it is survival of the ancient Briton autumn festival in honor of the Sun God, at which time bonfires were made by the Druids to show their appreciation for the harvest. They also believed that the Lord of Death gathered together the souls of those who had died within the year and because of their sins their souls had entered the bodies of animals. It is also a revival of the ancient Roman festival in honor of Pomona, the Goddess of fruit and flowers. These two religious ceremonies have merged, however, into a more modern form and are celebrated at the time of year sacred to both. Although it is now far from the expression of thanks for the harvest, it is regarded by many as the time for those who lurk about in dark places to sally forth and give information to the living about love, marriage and death. It is also thought to be the night when witches, devils and all mischief-making beings are abroad; especially the fairies, it is said, hold their grand anniversary on that night. Ancient Celts thought a great deal about death and life after death, so that in countries where their descendants live some superstitions prevail that the suffering departed souls are liberated from Purgatory and are free to visit their old homes or places of worship, and so everything is done to make them welcome and comfortable when they return. In some countries Halloween still carries the religious sentiment that inspired its celebrations but in general it has gradually become one of the most frivolous and sportive of all holidays. Many of the customs and superstitions of ancient time have continued and are still used, such as ducking or bobbing for apples, roasting nuts, etc. The black cat, the white hare are companions of the LESSON DEPARTMENT witches and are much evaded on that night. To counteract the rowdyism and destruction of property that too often is perpetrated by those whose chief aim is to hang gates on telephone poles and ring fire alarms, such organizations as parent teachers, outing clubs, chamber of commerce, municipal recreation commission, have cooperated in different parts to celebrate whole-heartedly 561 in a community way so that all may participate in legitimate stunts or pranks suitable to the occasion. Since it is a holiday that children love, could not the Relief Society members help to encourage the use of good wholesome fun and entertainment and inore home parties by way of celebrations and thereby decrease some of the delinquency among young people. Literature (For Third Week in November) THE NOVEL A HUMAN DOCUMENT "Man is his own star; and the soul that can Render an honest and a perfect man Commands all light." the ages has been to gain an understanding of the laws of life. Man has learned that his greatest happiness lies in his own harmonious development. Slowly, very slowly, he learned that disobedience to moral law brings suffering and deeds done can never be undone. "Thou shalt not" of the Decalogue, the gift of the ancient Hebrew civilization to the world, announces no penalties, but its message to mankind is plain: Sin is the conscious, intentional violation of the laws of morality. Universal experience is that which is the same for all men. The universal substance of literature from the abiding realm of human experience, the ideas, feelings, sympathies, emotions, and passions which move and: inspire men's lives, brings to M AN'S spiritual quest through Man a deeper understanding of life. An Universal Problem "Man by suffering shall learn," the words of Aeschylus to the ?Emerson Greeks twenty-four centuries ago as they witnessed the drama "Agamemnon," recorded the truth that disobedience to moral law brings suffering. On an ancient Assyrian tablet recently discovered is recorded a single word, "Evil." The problem of human suffering and its source has been a baffling mystery to man in all-ages. Job's impassioned answer to the friends who would have him confess his sins, because they were the cause of his suffering was, "The tents of the robbers prosper." The fact of a destructive force or evil at work in the world is well established. The supreme tragedy of life is to be the victim of one's own acts. The tragic element in life as portrayed in art is of great significance, "The great periods of art, of literature, of painting, of architecture, were ages of faith when men looked about them with amazement and trembled before the splendor and mystery of the world." Tragedy as portrayed in drama and fiction is not an imita562 tion of men but of life. Aeschylus, the first Greek tragedian portrayed man in his relationship to God and Nature with the message, "If Nature has launched man on a sea of troubles she has given him strength to endure." Tragedy, then, is a way of thinking about life presented dramatically or in story form. The art of fiction has produced its greatest masterpieces thinking thus about life; ""Anna Karenina," by Tolstoy, and "The Scarlet Letter," by Hawthorne. Hawthorne and "The Scarlet Letter' "There are two representative works of American art which come as near perfection as, perhaps, it is granted man to bring his achievements. One is the mysterious figure by Augustus Saint-Gaudens, Grief, which keeps vigil at a woman's tomb in Washington. The other is the novel, The Scarlet Letter." Nathaniel Hawthorne was a descendant of a family that had settled in New England in 1630. New England life changed rapidly during the life of the author of."'The Scarlet Letter." (1804-1864) The Puritan tradition, characterized by intense religious feeling, yielded to new economic, intellectual, and religious influences. The New England writers of this period, Longfellow, Emerson, Thoreau, Lowell, and Holmes were part of the new spirit. Hawthorne, a child of sollitude, was untouched by the new spirit; he was still part of the old Puritan tradition. Nathaniel Hawthorne began early to walk arm in arm with solitude. Madame Hawthorne withdrew from the world at the death of her husband. In the shadowy house of the Hawthorne's the mother lived in retirement in her room. In another chamber her two daughters lived in retirement. And in another room a lame boy lingered, reading and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE thinking in silence. At the age of seventeen Nathaniel Hawthorne entered Bowdoin College. His college friends were Longfellow and Franklin Pierce (later President of the United States). The spiritual loneliness continued but the silence was broken when the Puritan laid bare his thoughts in the form of fiction. The early literary works of Hawthorne were well received especially "Twice Told Tales." A clerical position in the custom office of the port of Boston helped the lean returns. From the literary activity. Upon his marriage to Sophia Peabody, Hawthorne settled in the Old Manse at Concord, Massachusetts. '"Mosses From An Old Manse," "The Scarlet Letter," 'The House of Seven Gables," and "The Blithesdale Romance" are the chief literary products that followed. Recognition, national and international, was given generously to the author during his lifetime. The novel, "The Scarlet Letter," has been placed by the most eminent literary critics of the century among. The fifteen great novels of the world. As a great romance it stands apart in the realm of fiction. Hawthorne's idea of romance was "to dream strange things and make them look like truth." The moral nature of man was the intense interest. Of his entire life. Hawthorne and Tolstoy.: the Russian novelist, are two great novelists of the human soul. The setting of the novel is Puritan New England. The idea of the novel, the' brand of sin, was the result of a particular incident in its author's life. While employed at the Custom. House, Boston, Hawthorne found a strange article among some old documents. It was the capital letter "A" made of scarlet cloth with traces of gold embroidery now greatly faded and frayed. One of the old documents told the story of the letter LESSON DEPARTMENT and its wearer, Hester Prynne, a Puritan. The novel begins with tragedy, the sin has been committed. There is no condemnation. The tale moves on marking the processes of expiation until a triumph is reached, a deep abiding calm. The novel handling the most poignant problem in literature becomes almost sacred when dramatized. The literary method of the novel is one of the marvels of literature. There are but four characters: Hester Prynne, Pearl, Arthur Dimmesdale, and Roger Chillingworth. The tale moves along as a quiet unbroken melody. The outstanding quality of Hawthorne's literary art lies in its verbal richness "that yields echoes that linger in the ear; and wake old echoes in the brain." Few writers have attained such literary perfection and such a mastery of prose as Nathaniel LSE swdhiou Aa. "The Scarlet Letter" ON an early summer morning nearly three centuries ago a throng of men and women crowded around the door of a prison in a small community in New England. The building, a blot on the escutcheon of the Puritan Utopia of New England was as ugly as the cause of its existence save for a rosebush that had grown up near the steps breathing a message of a divine Creator. The door opened and the warden emerged followed by Hester Prynne, a tall dark woman with classic features. On the breast of her gown was a scarlet letter "A" embroidered in gold thread. In her arms she carried a babe of three months. Hester was taken to the village square and placed on the public scaffold to receive her sentence. A thousand condemning eyes and bitter tongues added to her ignominy. The pastor of the community, Reverend Arthur Dimmesdale, noted for his eloquence 563 and religious fervor was exhorted to obtain a confession from Hester. He pled for a confession, urging her to "Be not silent from any mistaken pity and tenderness for him. What can thy silence do for him except it tempt him to add hypocrisy to sin. Take heed how thou deniest to him?who, perchance hath not the courage to grasp it for himself?the bitter, but wholesome, cup that is now presented to thy lips." Hester answered him, "I will not speak." The sentence was given to continue to stand on the scaffold for three hours, to go back to the prison for a term, to wear the scarlet letter for the rest of her life. Before Hester left the scaffold she saw on the outskirts of the crowd Roger Chillingworth, the man she had married in her native village in Old England. Fixing his gaze upon her the man, unknown to any person in the village, challenged her to secrecy. That night when back in the prison cell, Hester became seriously distraught through the events of the day. The jailer brought Roger Chilllingworth, who was at the prison attending to the matter of his ransom from the Indians, to the hysterical woman. Alone with his patient he explained his appearance in the village. Sending Hester ahead of him to the new world he had arrived on a vessel to be immediately captured by the Indians. Now familiar with the properties of medicinal herbs and having a knowledge of physical science he was going to remain in the community as a physician. Hester admitted her wrong to her husband, but refused to reveal her partner's name. Chillingworth enjoined Hester to secrecy of their relationship, and announced his intention of finding the man who had wronged them both: "Thou wilt not reveal his name? Not the less he is mine. He bears no letter 564 of infamy wrought into his garment, as thou dost, but I shall read it on his heart. Yet fear not for him! Think not that I shall interfere with Heaven's own method of retribution, or, to my own loss, betray him to the grip of human law. Let him live! Let him hide himself in outward honour, if he may! Not the less he shall be mine!" Hester Prynne's term of confinement at an end, she went to live on the outskirts of the village. By degrees, the skill of her needlework became known, Hester was able to support herself and the baby, Pearl.. All her superfluous means she used for charity. The little child was an elfish creature with strange fancies and a protesting conscience. To Hester she became a beneficent influence. Arthur Dimmesdale continued his work with redoubled zeal, growing in power and influence. In time the minister became ill; his form grew emaciated, he was often observed to put his hand over his heart, indicative of pain. Roger Chillingworth, now established as a physician, attached himself to the minister as his medical advisor. Later the two men lived together. On an obscure night in May, Arthur Dimmesdale, suffering and spent, wandered to the village scaffold. As he stood alone where Hester had stood, a childish laugh pealed forth. Hester, accompanied by Pearl, was returning from Governor Winthrop's deathbed. "Come up hither, Hester, thou and little Pearl," said the minister. "Ye have both been here before, but I was not with you. Come up hither once again, and we will stand all three together." As all stood on the scaffold Pearl pointed her finger towards Roger Chillingworth who came forth and suggested that for the sake of his health Dimmesdale should go home at once. Hester, shocked at the physical condition of Dimmesdale, knew him RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE to be the victim of her husband's threat. Now she had a new source of anxiety. Strengthened by years of trial she felt stronger to cope with the diabolical Chillingworth who had wronged her. Meeting him on his way to the woods for herbs she begged him to refrain from the wicked torture of Dimmesdale, but in vain. Pearl was now seven years of age. Many times of late she had asked her mother the meaning of the scarlet letter, and why she wore it. The words brought added suffering to the anxious Hester. Hester decided to acquaint Dimmesdale with the plans of Chillingworth. Knowing that the minister was visiting some Indian converts she planned to meet him in the woods on his return journey. When the two met, Dimmesdale asked in despairing tones, "Hast thou found peace, Hester?" For the first time Hester was fully sensible of the deep injury for which she was responsible to this unhappy man in not protecting him from the malevolent Chillingworth. Sitting side by side on the trunk of a fallen tree they together met the gloomy future: There was an escape, the broad pathway of the sea to their native land. The broken spirit of Dimmesdale had not strength or courage to accept the plan. 'Thou shalt not go alone," answered Hester. Little Pearl returning from her gambol in the woods was surprised at the minister's presence. Hester said, "Come thou and entreat his blessing. He loves thee, little Pearl, and loves thy mother, too. In the days to come he will walk hand in hand with us." The fateful interview came to a close. A ray of sunshine, a glow of strange brightness came to the troubled heart of the minister as the next days passed. With anxiety he awaited word from Hester concerning the LESSON DEPARTMENT precise time at which the vessel on which she was to make reservations would depart for a new land. Again a crowd gathered in the market place of the New England village, it was the day on which the new Governor was to receive office. Hester and Pearl were in the crowd, Hester clad in sober gray, Pearl decked out in airy gaiety. The procession passed by to the meetinghouse. The minister's sermon was a masterpiece of eloquence, breathing passion and pathos, and emotions high and tender. The voice of Arthur Dimmesdale held the audience spellbound. To Hester it was the complaint of a human heart beseeching the great heart of mankind for its sympathy and forgiveness. As the crowd passed back to the market place the captain of the vessel on which Hester had booked passage announced that the old-doctor would also be a passenger on the same vessel. The procession reached the scaffold on its return journey. As the minister came opposite the weatherworn structure he saw Hester holding little Pearl by the hand. The minister paused, the procession moved to the music of a joyful melody. Turning towards the scaffold he stretched forth his arms. "Hester,? said he, "come hither! Come my little Pearl! Come, Hester, come! Support me up yonder scaffold." To the multitude he cried, "The scarlet letter Hester wears is but the shadow of what I wear on my breast: Tearing away his clothing he revealed a scarlet "A" glowing in the flesh above his heart. Sinking to the scaffold the dying man murmured, "I fear! God is merciful." Chillingworth, kneeling by the dying man, cried, "Thou hast escaped me." Hester and Pearl left New England for a home abroad. Many 565 years passed, a figure in grey wearing a scarlet letter on her breast, returned to the little cottage on the edge of the wood. When one day Hester was seen embroidering a baby gown of lavish richness, the sober-hued community awoke to Pearl's happiness in marriage, in a far away home. "And, as Hester Prynne had no selfish ends, nor lived any measure for her own profit and enjoyment, people brought all their sorrows and perplexities, and besought her counsel, as one who had herself gone through a mighty trouble. Women, more especially?in the continually recurring trials of wounded, wasted, wronged, misplaced, or erring and sinful passion?or with the dreary burden of a heart unyielded, because unvalued and unsought?came to Hester's cottage, demanding why they were so wretched, and what the remedy! Hester comforted and counseled them as best she might." Tolstoy and "Anna Karenina" RUSSIAN fiction has been called "the best in the world." Leo Tolstoy, the giant of Russian literature, throughout his life was asking the eternal question "Why." An abnormal self-consciousness coupled 'with majestic intellectuality yielded little peace in his early manhood. With titanic effort this giant subdued body, mind, and spirit. At last came peace when from the wisdom of the ages he evolved for himself a creed: "Resist evil, Judge not, Be not angry, Love one woman." "War and Peace," one of Tolstoy's great works is a mighty panorama of human conflicts, sufferings, sacrifices, and a gallery of a thousand portraits. He has painted Russia with the artistry of a "Millett" portraying his beloved country as a veritable "Man With a Hoe.". Of Anna Karenina (ka ra ne na), which novel Arthur Symonds, the eminent English critic, places among the fifteen great novels of the world, William Lyon Phelps states, "I be566 lieve that the average man can learn more about life by reading this novel than he can by his own observation and experience." Suggestions for Study A. Materials: 1. The Story of the World's Literature, Macy, Chapter 47. 2. The Scarlet Letter, Hawthorne. 3. Anna Karenina, Tolstoy. B. Program: 1. Reading: a. Short selection from "'The Great Stone Face."  . Discussion: a. Hawthorne and the Puritan tradition. B. The Place of '""The Scarlet Letter" in World Fiction. 3. Review: a. "The Scarlet Letter" or b. "Anna Karenina." C. Objective: This lesson is planned to give an understanding of the universal qualities of great literature. Editor's Note: "Anna Karenina"' may be substituted for "The Scarlet Letter." It is not intended that both novels shall be reviewed in detail. Social Service ELIZABETH GURNEY FRY AND PRISON REFORM (For Fourth Week in November) 1. A STRANGE PRISON SCENE ONE of the most dramatic scenes in the history of prison life is connected with the name of Elizabeth Gurney Fry, wife, mother, and prison reformer. It was in Newgate Prison. Newgate was in London, England, and was built in the early thirteenth century and demolished in 1902. At the time of Mrs. Fry, however, it was at its height. The scene we are speaking of occurred in 1813, in that part of Newgate called the "Untried Female Ward." Inside and outside, Newgate was a hideous place. Perhaps the inside was the worse. There were at this time three hundred and fifty women confined here, with about fifty children belonging to them. All were in filthy rags; they slept on the floor, without beds or bedding. In appearance they resembled savages. Food of a very poor sort was furnished by the government; and it played havoc with the children, who suffered and pined under the prison fare. Connected with the prison, strange to say, was a bar, where the inmates might slake their thirst. Whenever these women could beg, borrow, or steal any money, they spent it either at the bar or in gambling. A new arrival with any money had to "stand treat." There was no one to keep order there but a man and a boy; for the warden, or jailer, never entered the place except when he had to. When visitors came to the grating, the women crowded near, to beg for money for drink. Later a double grating was provided, whereupon the women fastened wooden spoons on long sticks, which they thrust through to the spectators. Says one of these spectators: "Thus they remained in an unchecked condition of idleness, riot, and vice of every description. The women of the lowest sort?the very scum both of the town and the country?filthy in person, disgusting in their habits, and ignorant, not only of religious truth, but of the most familiar duties of common life." One day in January, 1813, four LESSON DEPARTMENT women, all members of the Quaker faith, entered the prison, to see what they could do to help the prisoners. Some women were to be executed for crimes they had committed. It was a cold and bitter day, and the suffering of the women prisoners and the half-hundred children went to the hearts of these ladies. One of these was Elizabeth Fry. In her journal she says: "Yesterday we were some hours with the poor female felons, attending to their outward necessities. Before we went away dear Anna Buxton uttered a few words of supplications, and very unexpectedly I did also. I heard weeping, and I thought they seemed much softened. A very solemn quiet was observed. It was a striking scene, the poor people on their knees round us in their very deplorable condition." Mrs. Fry must have made an imposing figure, for she was tall, stately, elegant, full of fine womanly vigor, both of mind and body. She was thirty-three years old. 2. DeTaits oF Mrs. Fry's LIFE Elizabeth Fry was born in 1780, and died in 1845. Her father, "a remarkably handsome man," was John Gurney; her mother, who was not considered at all intellectual, was Catherine Bell. The Gurneys were Quakers, but not "plain Quakers" ?by which is meant, they did not dress in the peculiar garb of the Society and use "thee" and "thou" in their conversation. Elizabeth, the '"dove-like Betsy," says this of herself in her girlhood: "I believe I had a name only for being obstinate, for my nature had a strong tendency that way, and I was disposed to a spirit of contradiction, always ready to see things a little differently from others, and not willing to yield my sentiments to them."" And here is the picture of Elizabeth's girlhood by her sister, Catherine: 567 "She had more genius than any one from her retiring disposition gave her credit for in her earlier days. She had tender feelings, especially towards her parents, to whom she was the most loving and obedient of any of their children. She was gentle in look and manner, and pleasing in person; though she had not Rachel's glowing beauty, yet some thought her quite attractive. She disliked learning languages, and was somewhat obstinate in her temper, except towards her mother. "After we were left alone, her aversion to learning was a serious disadvantage to her; and though she was quick in natural talent, her education was very imperfect and deficient. Enterprise and benevolence were the two predominant features of her character, and wonderfully did these dispositions afterwards unfold under the influence of religion. "In contemplating her remarkable and peculiar gifts, I am struck with the development of her character and the manner in which the qualities, considered faults when she was a child, became virtues, and proved in her case of the most important efficacy in her career of active service, Her natural timidity was, I think, in itself the means of acquiring the opposite virtue of courage, through the transforming power of the divine grace, which stamped the endowment in her with a holy moderation and nice discretion that never failed to direct it aright. Her natural obstinacy, the only failing in her temper ag a child, became the finely-tempered decision and firmness which enabled her to execute her project for the good of others. What in her childhood was something like cunning, ripened into the most uncommon penetration, long-sightedness, and skill in influencing the minds of others. "There wag more timidity and scrupulousnesg in her early than in her mature religion, more of sectarian and peculiar view; but as her experimental knowledge of the gospel advanced, her sympathies became enlarged, and the line into which she was drawn by her public engagements taught her in the most noble and catholic spirit to acknowledge the truth under every form and modification. She became a living illustration of St. Paul's description of charity, few seeming to partake so abundantly of the glorious liberty of the children of God." In her eighteenth year Elizabeth was converted to religion. Before 568 that she had taken religion rather lightly, disliking the meetings held in Goat's Lane. At one of these services the story of Abraham about to offer up his son as a sacrifice so horrified the girl that she thereafter dreaded to go to the place. But in her eighteenth year a Mr. William Savery, an American friend, visited the town. Mr. Savery had "an arresting voice.' At one of the meetings where he preached Elizabeth was so deeply moved that she wept? an uncommon thing with her. At her request her father obtained an invitation for her to dine with the minister at her uncle's. On the way home afterward Betsy astonished the family by weeping all the way. The next day Mr. Savery ate dinner with the Gurneys, when he predicted "a high and important calling" for Elizabeth. 'From that day," we are told, "her love of the world and of pleasure seemed gone." It was after she had received these powerful impressions through religion that she went to London. She had given up dancing, much to the disappointment of her sisters, and devoted herself to a study of the Bible. Nothing her sisters could do was of any avail to get her to take up her old habits of thought and conduct. Yet when she went on a trip to London, she attended the theater, where she saw Hamlet and Bluebeard on the stage, and had her hair dressed, which made her "feel like a monkey." For a time also she became a "plain Quaker," and used "thee" and "thou" in her speech with others. Later, however, she '"emancipated herself from these restrictions." About this time, when she went on a tour through England and Wales, with her family, she met Deborah Darley, a famous Friend, who prophesied that Elizabeth would be "a light to the blind, speech to the dumb, and feet to the lame." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE These words greatly influenced the young woman., In August, 1800, she was married to Joseph Fry. She was then twenty years old. Fry, too, was a Friend, of good family, well-to-do till he lost everything shortly before his death, and an excellent linguist and musician. The young couple took up their residence at Plashet House. At first inclined to be "gay instead of plain and scrupulous," she easily fell in with the Quaker ways of the family. She here formulated some rules of conduct, and adopted them. "First: Hast thou this day been honest and true in performing thy duties towards thy Creator in the first place, and, secondly, to thy fellow creatures, or hast thou been sophistical and flinched? Second: Hast thou been vigilant in frequently pausing in the hurry and career of the day, to see who thou art endeavoring to serve?thy Maker or thyself? And every time that trial and temptation assailed thee, didst thou endeavor to look steadily at the delivering Power, even to Christ, who can do all things for thee? Third: Hast thou endeavored to perform thy relative duties faithfully?been a tender, loving, yielding wife, where thy will and pleasure were concerned; a tender, yet steady mother with thy children, making thyself quickly and strictly obeyed, but careful what thou requirest of them; a kind yet honest mistress, telling thy servants of their faults when thou thinkest it for their or thy good, but never unnecessarily worrying thyself or them about trifles; and to every one endeavoring to do as thou wouldst be done by?" 3. Joan Howard AND His REFORMS BAD the prisons were in the time of Elizabeth Fry, they were worse in the preceding generation LESSON DEPARTMENT  This is incredible, but it is true. To the tireless and intelligent efforts of John Howard is due the slight improvement. In the middle of the eighteenth century, when Howard first became interested in prison life, the officers of the prisons were dependent on the inmates for their fees. Many of those incarcerated were not guilty at all, for they had not even been tried. Others had been tried, but had not been found guilty. And still others were detained till they could find money with which to pay their fees! On being made high sheriff of Bedford, Howard began an investigation of the prisons in his county. This done, he recommended to the authorities that the jailer be paid by the government, instead of from fees paid by the prisoners. They replied that there was no precedent for that; so he visited other prisons in England to find one, but in vain. He made a discovery, however, which resulted in the betterment of prison life, not only in his own county, but in all England. He learned that conditions were worse in other prisons than in his own. Thereupon he made a report to parliament. Almost immediately that law-making body acted. A law was passed (1) that fees be abolished, (2) that all those against whom charges had not. Been sustained by a jury be liberated, (3) that prisons be properly ventilated, (4) that medical advice and service be provided, and (5)that the walls and ceiling be whitewashed every year. John Howard's life fell between the years 1726 and 1790. He was left a fortune by his father; hence he was able to devote his time to philanthropic work?which he did during his manhood down to old age. He traveled a great deal, not only in England, but on the continent, 569 visiting prisons everywhere. And the response of the authorities throughout Britain was all that he could expect. Howard, like Mrs. Fry after him, was devoted to works of philanthropy, of which prisons generally became benefactors. 4. Resutts oF Mrs. Fry's Worx PENOLOGY, as this phase of social theory and practice is called, has had four stages of development. First, the period in which the protection of society was the only consideration; second, that in which the possibilities of the prisoners came into the picture; third, that in which crime was regarded, to some extent, as a disease that might be cured, or prevented; and, fourth, that in which society was considered partly to blame for crime and criminals. All of these stages, with the possible exception of the third, are regarded as yielding the basic principles of our twentieth century prison reforms. When Mrs. Fry left the Female Ward of Newgate, that January morning, it was to work out some remedial measures. Obviously she was not one of those persons who, when they feel sorry for any one, think they have done their full duty. She must do something. At once she put her finger on the weak spot in the prevailing system: the need for work for the women. "I soon found," she says, "that nothing could be done, or was worth attempting, for the reformation of the women, without constant employment." Her first suggestion was to organize a committee for the purpose of: planning this work; her second, that a matron be employed, who would agree not to leave the prison, day or night. A committee of twelve women, all Friends, was created, and a matron found, who answered to the qualifications set down. It was char570 acteristic of Mrs. Fry that she perfected her plans before she spoke to the governor of the prison. It was also characteristic of the men consulted?the governor and two sheriffs?that they doubted the workability of the plan. "Let the experiment be tried," said the tactful Mrs. Fry; "let the women be assembled in your presence, and if they will not consent to the strict observance of our rules, let the project be dropped." They consented. Accordingly, on a Sunday afternoon, before the assembled women, she-explained the following plan: (1) A matron was to have general supervision of the women; (2) the women were to engage in needlework, knitting, or any other suitable employment; (3) there was to be no begging, swearing, gaming, card-playing, quarreling, or universal conversation; (4) monitors were to see that the women came to work with clean hands and faces and that they remain quiet at their work; (5) at nine o'clock in the morning the women were to hear scripturereading, either by a visitor or by the matron; (6) at six o'clock in the evening the women were to give their work to the matron; and (7) the matron was to keep an exact account of all work done by the women. To all this the women agreed. The officials were so astonished at the result that they thereafter made it a part of the prison plan. It was not long before a school for the prison children was established, which was taught by a young woman prisoner who had been a school teacher. In 1818 Mrs. Fry was questioned in the House of Commons. There she gave her fundamental principles of prison reform. She wanted (1) a classification of all offenders according to age, sex, and the offence committed: (2) supervision of female RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE prisoners by female officers; (3) a provision for self-respecting work for all prisoners; and (4) systematic instruction in religion. Nothing sounder than this has ever been suggested in social history. Mrs. Fry extended her work to include help to those who were to be transported to Botany Bay, in Australia. Before her efforts these prisoners were riotous. Prior to leaving the prison they broke everything they could, and they went away shouting with the most hardened effrontery. Mrs. Fry changed all this. Through her influence on them they took an affectionate leave of those whom they knew, they expressed their gratitude to those who had helped them in any way, and they departed in such an orderly manner that fewer guards were required to accompany them to the boat. Very naturally Mrs. Fry's aon attracted wide attention. She became known throughout England and on the continent. She visited Scotland, Germany, France, Holland, and Denmark, where she studied prison life and where she was received with acclaim. As a direct consequence of her work seventeen associations by 1821 had been established for the improvement of female offenders in Great Britain, and four in Europe. She was far in advance of her time. Her policies of prison labor, of paying for prison work, of giving help to released prisoners, as well as of the education and training of prisoners, have yet to be adopted generally in our century. So, as a matter of sober fact, she is still ahead of the times in these respects. Mrs. Fry, as we have said,was a married woman and a mother. Indeed, she was the mother of eleven children. Yet she found time to become one of the great prison reformers LESSON DEPARTMENT of the nineteenth century, a leader in prison reform. Women everywhere have reason to be proud of Mrs. Fry's contribution to human welfare. And they should take inspiration from the fact that a wife and the mother of eleven children became so useful a citizen of the world. Her policies are sound today, after more than a hundred years. Questions 1. Are there provisions in your community for the employment of prisoners? If so, what are they? 2. In view of the fact that most prison inmates are, sooner or later, returned to society, what is the importance of fair and just treatment 571 of them while in prison? Of their education and vocational training, from the viewpoint (a) of the prisoner himself and (b) of society? 3. What is the advantage of segregation of prisoners, as advocated by Mrs. Fry? Is there such a provision in your community? 4, Discuss the benefits of work for prisoners. What would be the advantages to the prisoners if they were paid for their work, as suggested by Mrs. Fry? 5. What were Mrs. Fry's four fundamental principles of prison reform as given to the House of Commons? Discuss the value of each. How many of these are in force in your State or country today? Mission Lessons LESSON II. HEALTH AND HOME NURSING SORE THROAT AND THE COMMON COLD "Gold that buys health can never be ill spent." Sore THROATS NY part of the throat may become inflamed and  necessarily sore, but that part of the throat which is most often involved is the Tonsils, located deep in the back of the throat, and sometimes difficult to see. They may be small and innocent-looking ? no longer than the tip of the finger, or when the tongue is held down by the back of a spoon, they may appear to fill the whole throat. If red and angry in appearance, we say they are inflamed and the person has Tonsilitis. Indeed, they may look like big red strawberries?covered with small patches of white; not unlike the seeds of the berry. The inflammation in such tonsils is great and makes the person very sick. There is much aching and pain and curiously enough, it is often located in the spine or the arms, or legs? far away from the cause of the trouble. Fever, sore throat, headache, pain when swallowing, and loss of appetite complete the picture. What body storms and tempests may follow repeated attacks of sore throat and how far-reaching are the results! The vitality is lowered? the individual feels tired all the time, irritable and unwell. In severe infections the kidneys suffer, the heart may become involved, and rheumatic troubles follow. Scientists that know, claim that more than onehalf of the heart disease, two-thirds of the rheumatism and fully threefourths of the deafness come from bad tonsils. If a child has a running ear, look in his throat; if he complains of pain in his legs, look in his throat; if he is underweight, stomach upset, appetite gone, look in his throat. If he is behind in his school work, or sleeps with his mouth open, look to his throat. Nine times out of ten, 572 these troubles and disasters follow in the wake of infected tonsils. The treatment is direct and simple? Have the little desperadoes removed early, before too much damage is done. Unfortunately they cannot be removed while they are acutely inflamed and the delay is dangerous because it puts off indefinitely the operation. After they become once infected, their structure changes and from then on they become a detriment to good health.. Let us no longer say that our. Child is having one of his regular sore throats, and do nothing about it.. Put him in bed, with an ice-cold towel around his neck, a laxative, a mild gargle and copious drinks of hot water, milk or lemonade. A hot foot bath is good. This treatment will contribute to his comfort and early recovery. Keep the family and visitors away, as sore throats are contagious. Bright children are often blamed for dullness because they cannot hear. And the cause of this beginning deafness may be due to neglected ears and throats. Indeed, it is estimated that the great majority of cases of deafness in adults, are caused by early, neglected, sore throats. It is well to remember in passing, that Diphtheria often begins as "just a sore throat," and any large patches of membrane, located anywhere in the 'throat should excite our suspicion. Diphtheria is no longer such a dreaded disease, because of the life-saving properties of antitoxin?which must be given early and always in generous doses. In all cases of sore throat, look in the throat, be sure of the trouble, but when in doubt call the Doctor, and call him early. CoMMON COLD E see that the health is frequently impaired by sore throats. Equal in importance but RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE happily less frequent, are the disas. Ters following the common cold. Desipte all the progress made in medicine since the days of Pasteur, there remains much to be learned about the elusive common cold. No other disease causes such great economic loss to industry, so many absences from school and so many interruptions to normal life, as do colds. People having colds spread them?they spray the country-side far and wide with their sneezes and coughs, and there are always susceptible people at hand to get the disease. Age suffers, adults suffer, but the child suffers most of all. A cold in the head is a nuisance to the one who has it and a menace to his neighbors. It may even prepare the way for pneumonia or tuberculosis. There are too many who believe that exposure to cold weather produces a cold; we learn from Arctic explorers, who have lived beyond the arctic circle, that only in the summer time, when the first steamer was able to get through the ice, with the mail and other luxuries of civilization, did the men suffer from colds. Men who work all winter in the northern lumber camps, exposed to all kinds of weather, are curiously enough, free from colds. We know that over-heated and poorly ventilated dwellings make people very susceptible to colds. Valuable investigations on the common cold have been made by physicians, both in Europe and America. The following facts have been established: That colds are contagious?we catch our cold from someone else. Colds occur at all ages, but are most common in children and young adults. Colds occur at all seasons of the year, but are most prevalent in the winter time. Rapid changes of temperature seem to have some influence on the number of colds, LESSON DEPARTMENT When a person says he has a cold he may be suffering from any one of a half a dozen different diseases. The true common cold begins suddenly with profuse running of the nose, a watery discharge from the eyes, and is generally accompanied by much sneezing and fever. Muscular aching soon follows. The uncomplicated cold runs its course in three or four days, and at the end of that time the person should be well. The most important measures in the treatment ot cold are along preventive lines?and much can be done. The following should be remembered. Avoid physical and mental fatigue?get plenty of sleep and rest. Sleep with windows open. Keep the hands away from the mouth?wash them often, especially after hand-shaking ? keep nails clean. Brush your teeth night and morning. Use your own towel and drinking glass. Kissing a person with a cold is always a good way to get into trouble, and should never be done. There are some people who cannot stand drafts, and to the cold-susceptible individual, drafts and wet feet are to be avoided. Not that these alone will produce a cold, but they lower resistance, and the enemy takes possession. The forgotten overcoat and the lost rubbers and galoshes have done much to perpetuate the common cold. Sudden changes of temperatures are generally injurious to the body and from the over-heated home to the cold raw air without proper protection? change of clothing?increases susceptibility to cold. Providing proper wash basins at Ward socials would encourage washhands before eating. Extreme cleanliness and proper disinfection of the sacrament service is imperative. However different may be our ideas as to the cause of the common 573 cold, medical men are agreed definitely as to the treatment. It is to be remembered that as colds are contagious naturally the first thing to do is to isolate the person with the cold, to keep him away from other members of the family, if possible, in a room by himself. It is very imperative that he be not permitted to go to school or to work. Long experience with the care of the common cold has definitely proven that it is best to go to bed and remain there, especially during the two or three days of the fever. Soft white rags that have been boiled or an ample supply of cleansing tissue, are more appropriate than handkerchiefs, for these can be burned, and it is very necessary that the patient cover the nose and mouth, especially while sneezing. Frequent drinks of lemonade, fruit juice, milk and soda water have been found to be beneficial. A mild laxative is helpful, and only a very light diet should be permitted. Colds are often the beginning of other diseases, such as pneumonia and tuberculosis, and if the fever lasts longer than the third or fourth day, it is quite evident that the disease is no longer a common cold, but is rapidly developing into some other condition more serious, and it is very necessary to find out the. Reason why. Many contributions have been made in recent years, to our knowledge of the common cold, and among these is the vaccine treatment, which, in combination with other measures such as sanitation, diet, exercise, cod liver oil, and exposure to the sun's rays, will do much to make the susceptible individual freer from the tyranny of the common cold. It is recorded somewhere, "that it is not the number of years that pass over our heads, but rather the number of colds that pass through our heads, that make us old."