President Robison Returns WE are happy to announce the safe return of our belov?d President, Louise Y. Robison from her European trip. We are sure our readers will be eager to read her report which will appear in a forthcoming issue of our magazine. Sister Robison enjoyed good health while away and was warmly received wherever she went. The friendship, goodwill and love shown by the Relief Society sisters of Europe moved her deeply and made her more eager than ever to be humble and to perform her duties faithfully. She was delighted with the way the sisters in the European mission conducted their meetings and the earnestness and devotion they exhibited. They are eager to carry on the work as efficiently and to study the same lessons as their fellow members are doing in Zion. They have groups of "Singing Mothers" and some of the sisters in Switzerland yodel to the delight of those who hear them. Through our President's visit, the General Board will understand conditions there much better and will therefore be able to give more aid. We welcome our President back. It is a joy to see her take upu her work immediately on her return and as of yore put her whole heart and soul into the work that is so dear to her. Marie Dressler THEN the news flashed over the wires that Marie Dressler, acclaimed the greatest comedian of her generation had died, countless thousands sorrowed that this woman who had made millions laugh and love her, who had been so interested in others that she was elated when they scored and downcast when they failed, who was said to be the same no matter what fortune or misfortune befell her, would make no more pictures. She has left many lessons through her life of struggle and suffering and trial. She knew few of the joys of childhood. Her father, who though German had been trained in the British Army, was irascible. He was a music teacher, but his quick temper lost him all his pupils and the father and mother with their two daughters moved from place to place. The older girl was beautiful but Marie was known as "the ugly duckling." She said, '"From the beginning I have played my life as a comedy rather than the tragedy many others would have made of it. Some derive enjoyment from the martyr feeling, but as an infant I would rather be laughed at than pitied." She never went to schcol. Until she became the sole support of her family at the age of fourteen, her mother was her tutor in reading, writing and arithmetic. T is interesting to note that it was tripping over rugs when she was a fat, clumsy, three-year-old child that started Marie Dressler on her career. She found that people laughed when she was awkward, so she began falling deliberately, from "a desire to make my friends enjoy themselves." JI wanted those about me to be happy and to like me. If 556 I failed I blamed no one but myself. I realized that my beauty, if any, lay underneath the skin. I found it quite as delightful if people said: 'Isn't she funny?' as if they had exclaimed: 'Isn't she beautiful?'"' Her mother worried because her daughter could not go to school and she made her promise to read newspapers every day as an educational measure. This promise Marie kept and all her education came from reading papers and listening to people. She knew what it was to go from a position as a chorus girl receiving $8.00 a week to a star receiving $2500 a week. Then to go back to a position bringing $8.00 a week and up again to $5,000 a week. At 54 she was not wanted at any price, at 64 she was under contract to receive $100,000 for each picture, two a year if her health permitted. AtLtHOuUGH she knew the pain of unrequieted love, she also knew some wonderful and lasting friendships. Indeed her final triumph came through her friendship with Frances Marion. Unable to secure employment, she decided to go to Europe and open a small hotel. She believed that the friends she knew in America would patronize her when they were abroad. Her friend pooh-poohed the idea. She said, "Hold on, Marie, until I can write you a part, and you will be set." Later, when she wrote Anne Christie RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE for Greta Garbo, the part of the old boat woman was done with Marie Dressler in mind. Over night Miss Dressler became a Hollywood sensation. Those who had scoffed at the idea of giving her a real part, now fought for her services. ALMOST concomitant with her great success and the attendant big money it brought, she knew that she was a victim of cancer and that her span of life would not be long. She signed her last big contract, knowing that the dread scourge would bring her agony and bitterness, yet she bravely carried on. In the last five years she made a fortune, but she never considered quitting. She, like so many laugh-makers, carried burdens under her sunny exterior. She knew almost no moments free from concern and worry. In her heart most of her years sorrow was a habitant. She bought a beautiful home in Beverly Hills, where she enjoyed entertaining her friends. She was an excellent cook and often delighted her guests by herself concocting unusual dishes. A short time ago she said, "I really didn't begin to live until I was 50. I honestly feel younger than I did at 25." She felt that middle age is the best part of life and expressed herself as sorry for the "middle-aged woman who feels that life is over for her and looks and acts accordingly."