[Column 1]
﻿morals.” The potency and pith of every line
n the above quotation find full application in
he home circle, the miniature type of all or-
ganizations, where women preside conjointly
with their husbands or should do so. If
women can be educated in and have a voice in
the government of the city, county, state or
territory in which they reside they would be a
mighty factor in restraining the rise and
flourishing of the myriads of dens of temp-
tation which now bristle from every corner of
all great cities, alluring the youthful and
curious mind into paths which lead to lives
not only pernicious to the welfare, peace and
prosperity of the community, but add to the
burdens of the moral and law-abiding citizens,
by forcing them to contribute of their hard
earnings in taxes to support prisons and jails,
in which the lawless are herded in idleness
usually, because useless and dangerous if at
liberty. Women I believe would be swift to
use every power vested in them, that would
preserve their sons and daughters in the paths
of truth and honor, and establish them in lives
of usefulness and intelligence. Their watch
care and solicitude over their home circles
would stimulate them to extra diligence to get
time to cast their votes, or lift their voices for
honest men and women as officers and against
all measures which endangered the morals of
their families. Where is the science of govern-
ment more required and capable of eternal and
far reaching good than in the home circle where
the seeds of justice, morality and law abiding
instincts are planted in young hearts yet at
the mothers knee? There would be better
home government, parents recognizing and
respecting the rights of their children and the
children the authority and instruction of
parents and of each other. The study of the
code of equal rights will benefit every one
whether they ever become voters or not. The
study of politics is a means of development
and therefore it is important that women pur-
sue it, and get a good understanding of it in
all its phases and make obsolete the favorite
objection of some men to women in politics,
that she does not know enough. Victor
Hugo has said the 19th century is the century
of women. “Revolutions go not backward but
forward,” and those of progress are growing
more rapid continually and cutting a wider
swath in the field of musty traditions and
deep worn ruts of thought and habit that have
so long environed women within the narrowest
limits possible. The spirit of the century set
its seal in the foreheads of a few brave souls of
womanly form, whose visions and realizing
sense of equity and justicew as of such strength,
brilliance and fixedness of purpose as to sink
into as deep insignificance all contemptuous
epithets as “strong minded, soured old maid
dissappointed in love” etc. as the moon pales be-
fore the brightness of the noonday sun. The
pioneers of all innovations have been strong or
never would the walls of traditions and old
customs have been broken down and swept
away, and a smooth path beaten for the feet of
weaker ones to follow. When great ends are
to be achieved, a persistence and perseverance
of purpose without a shadow of turning is the
only means of gaining victory. What is this
spirit of the 19th century, that is inspiring
men as well as women with a determined spirit
of resistance. Which says we are all equally the
children of the God of this earth and He
created it for us all to enjoy. Is it not the in-
nate spirit of Justice. Every one born
in the United States whose parents are citizens,
is a citizen by right of birth, but a birth does
not constitute or make the person a voter. To
vote is a privilege and not a right which has
been clearly explained to us in a previous
session and is regulated by the legislature of
each state governed by certain specifications
defined in the constitution of the state or or-
[Column 2]
ganic law of the territory. In the original
thirteen states sex was not a bar to voting but
gradually each state inserted “male” as a
qualification of a voter until now Vermont is
the only state which has not this word in the
suffrage clause of its organic law; but it has
inserted it in its election laws. Monopolies
are rising hydra-headed all over the land and
making it almost impossible for the poor to
live. Many thousand women earn their own
living and many earn it for their families also
doing the same work as men with only half
the wages.  Many women are equally capable
of filling a number of lucrative offices which
now are only eligible to men, where their work
is not heavy and would seem in the fitness of
things more suitable to women than men.
Why not let capacity and ability be the test of
eligibility and not sex? Power is held in re-
spect and when women hold the ballot they
will command more deference then, in virtue
of that power than they do now through the
mere sentiment of chivalry. It is affirmed by
the great workers in suffrage that the greatest
opposition to the cause is the apathy and in-
difference of women themselves. With some
it is from physical exhaustion, because they
have too much to do domestically to have
scarcely an hour a day to read or think of any
thing outside of the four walls of their own
houses and also in the fact that woman’s work
in a family is never done. Yet if the subject
can be so presented to them as to cause a
realization of its benefits to them and others,
an interest will be created and some time will
be found and utilized in investigating the
subject which will result in positive good, that
is now spent less usefully in moments of neces-
sary relaxation. But there is a large class who
have both the leisure, education and ability,
who from sheer apathy and indifference lan-
guidly say they have all the rights they wish
and have no desire to have a voice in politics.
The worst besetting sin of the world is selfish-
ness and will be the very last to loosen its
fangs from the human soul as it passes the
“Gates ajar.” If this great army of fortunate
women would use a few of their leisure hours
in reflecting upon the sad and despairing lives
of thousands of their unfortunate sisterhood,
girls of the factory whose lives are days of toil
for a mere pittance, sewing women with wages
scarcely adequate to keep the wolf from the
door, the drunkards wives who not only have
poverty and toil to contend with, but unkind-
ness and even blows, and numberless other con-
ditions of women too numerous to mention now,
and could be brought to realize that it is in
their power and would be philanthropic and
benevolent to work for the amelioration of this
unchristian condition of affairs, the fear of
being called strong-minded and masculine
would vanish and every man’s wife would in-
sist on knowing why shackles should remain
upon her sex when even the negro is freed, and
why barriers and bans are planted in her path
of progress as a citizen, when she is fully en-
titled to and should be protected by the strong
arm of the law, with equal rights to life,
liberty and the pursuit of happiness with her
brother. It does not follow as a natural
sequence if women possess the full franchise
that she must or will be elected or accept every
office in the gift of the people. This can
safely be trusted to her sense of propriety and
the good judgment of the people. Let us as
an association seek diligently to inform our-
selves on all matters of government, trying
with the simpler forms as the Municipal, then
County, Territorial and State and the United
States. This does not imply, we should devote
our whole time exclusively to them to the
neglect of our home or business duties, but to
take hold of the subject systematically and at the
beginning and follow it up slowly but surely.
We can then understand better what are our
[Column 3]
rights, and the best manner of petitioning for
them. Much hard and earnest work has been
fruitless, and valuable time lost by basing the
arguments in favor of certain legislature on
debatable premises, for instance the 16th
amendment to the constitution of the U. S.
Those unfavorble to woman suffrage contend-
ing it would be unconstitutional and impossible
while those in favor and apparently with good
logic arguing it as proper and feasible.
	Assertions are not proof, and railing against
and berating masculinity in general and going
to the other extreme of lauding women far
above men is all a waste of time and force. In
a nutshell our duties as suffragists are to in-
form ourselves and instruct each other in  the
science of government, to interest all our
friends in the movement, to convert our fathers,
brothers and husbands to the fact that we can
understand and wield an intelligent power in
politics, and still preside wisely and gracefully
at home, and that until woman’s voice is equally
incorporated in the vox populi that it is not vox
Dei.
	On motion of Mrs. Dougall a vote of thanks
was tendered the ladies, who had so ably
assisted the programme committee. Adjourned
for three months.
		Cornelia H. Clayton. Secretary,


