EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Some time ago we read in the Deseret News
of a Long Island party in Salt Lake City.
We have lately had the pleasure of attending
a Long Island party in Long Island.. There
is a branch of the Church organized at Ocean-
ville L. I. presided over by Bro. Elbert Soper.
Bro. Albaroni H. Woolley is a missionary
whose field of labor at present lies in this
branch.  For some time a beach party has
been contemplated by the members of the
branch here: and Bro. Woolley, with commen-
dable loyalty and love for his mountain home
suggested the Twenty-fourth of July,—Utah's
Pioneer day, for the event.  Accordingly, a
merry boatfull started at eight o'clock a. m. of
that day, to float out with high tide and enjoy
a sail on the smooth waters of the Bay.
	Salt Lake City was represented by Messrs.
E. H. Petitt; A. H, Woolley and wife, C. F.
Wilcox wife and children. The sailboat is the
property of Bro. Ira Petitt, and his son E. H.
has guided that same vessel many and many
a time over those waters, the depths and shal-
lows and dangers thereof which he knew "like
a book."  We were glad to have such a
captain.  A clam bake on the sandy beach
was a part of the program.  After leaving
Petitt's place we sailed across to Point Lookout
where hotel and cottages have lately been
erected by the Long Beach Company:  There
the women and children landed while the men
returned to the boat to go in search of clams.
These are found in shallow places and taken
from the mud by means of a rake. A good
sized basketfull was thus secured in a short
time.  While the men were thus prosily en-
gaged the women were delighting in the luxury
of "gathering up the shells from the seashore."
And the children!  How they all rejoiced in
the wide stretch of sand, so white and clean
and no restraint put upon the blessed darlings
for fear of soiling frocks.  How  with their
tiny shovels the excavated wells, and heaped
up mountains which were diminished almost as
soon as erected.  It seemed too bad to be
called from such pleasures, but hungry time
was coming, and preparations must be made
for lunch.  Only those whose appetites have at
some time been thus whetted by salt breezes
and not destroyed by illness can tell what fine
flavors that lunch possessed.  After lunch
more wandering on the sand viewing seaweed,
jelly fish, etc. tossed up by the restless sea.
	Bathing in the surf was enjoyed by some of
the older ones, and the children were pleased
by the great waves washing upon their bare
feet. Later on the clams were to be roasted,
but alas! for mortal plans.  We were called to
the boat, as a young woman was suffering much
from sudden illness.  We proceeded to our land-
ing and she was taken to a neighboring house,
still enduring much pain. Upon being ad-
ministered to by the Elders she was immedi-
ately relieved.
	She had been baptized but a few days before,
and rejoiced in this added testimony. Those
present were also joyful at this manifestation
of the goodness of our Father, and felt the
day to be a better one than if the original
plan had been fulfilled.
					Lizzie S. Wilcox.


