HALF A CENTURY.
	The reception room at the Deseret Hospital was
invaded on Thursday evening August 8th by a
company of brethren and sisters, during the ab-
sence of the Dr. Romania B. Pratt who had been
sent away to hunt up an unknown patient.  The
nurses and help were in the secret and had dec-
orated the rooms with flowers and vines and made
all needful preparations.  A very artistic cake in
pyramids and ornamented like a bride’s cake was
on the table the work of her daughter in law Mrs.
P. P. Pratt.
     When the Dr. arrived she was very much sur-
prised to find her friends seated and chatting
away merrily.  She was warmly greeted and con-
gratulated on having reached the half century so
active buoyant fresh, and blooming a matrons
Speeches were made, songs sung and everything
passed off joyously.  Several of those who spoke
alluded to her as being the pioneer woman in the
profession in Utah, having been the first lady
graduate here, and stimulating others to follow
her noble example.  Dr. Pratt has made herself a
name and won laurels in her profession by her
own individual exertions and undaunted heroism
in the study of medicine and surgery.  Dr. E. S.
Barney read an address replete with funny
things and yet prophetic of the future.  The ad-
dress written and read  by Mrs. Lillie Freezs in a
clear voice and most happy manner expressed the
sentiments of those who had assembled in honor
of the anniversary.
     Mrs. Freeze in behalf of a few of Dr. Pratt’s
friends presented her with a very large photo-
graph album.

     It is with feelings of sincere gratitude and
pleasure that I arise to congratulate my very dear
friend upon another anniversary of her birthday—
this one of unusual interest having completed seven
times seven and a Jubilee, as we behold her radiant
and blooming face, one is led to believe that Old
Father time has shown partiality and claimed her
as one of his especial pets.
     When His hand has rested upon your brow and
tresses it was not to plow furrows, or streak with
silver, each stroke has seemed a tender caress.

[column 2]
But there is a change an utter change that comes
upon the heart.
     In you we recognize many gifts and graces that
glorify the character of woman.  We admire your
talents, we honor your undaunted courage and
perseverance in toiling alone up the rugged hill of
science, opening the path to a higher and broader
field of usefulness for your sex.  We appreciate
your womanly virtues and we love you as a friend.
It was said of Napoleon that he could win battles
but Josephine had achieved the greater success
for she could win hearts; the presence of so many
appreciative friends assembled here to-night to
honor your Jubilee proves that you have
learned the art known to the charming.  Empress
of France.
     I believe sincerely that those whom you have
admitted to the inner temple of your life—those
who know you best, love you most.
     As a memento of this delightful occasion I take
pleasure in presenting to you, in behalf of the
company—this album.  Representing as it does a
mirror in which you may behold the faces of your
friends, and we trust that you may enjoy many a
silent visit with them when life’s duties have
turned our footsteps into varied paths.  And we
also entertain the hope that the memory of the
friendship that has prompted us to make this
simple offering, may be as a broken fountain of
perfume shedding its fragrance adown the stream
of life until it merges into the great sea of Eternity,
in the Celestial kingdom of our Father, where we
may meet again and renew and perfect our associa-
tions begun on earth,
     Respectfully inscribed to Dr. Romania B. Pratt on her
50th anniversary.

'Tis not by years, and years alone
That we should count times restless flight.
For now, though fifty years have flown
We see our friend so young to-night,
Life’s cares and pains that come to all
And leave stern marks upon the brow,
Are not here found, no dark’ning pall
Enshrouding her with sad'ning woe,

Experience has left behind
Its rare and radiant traces,
Enriching heart, and soul, and mind, 
Thus adding loveliest graces,
Of sweetest sympathy and love,
Of wisdom, and humility,
Reliance on our God above
In faith, with hope and charity.

Her powers too of usefulness
Have been enhanced by patient toil.
She finds in truth the blessedness
Of "pouring on the waters oil"—
Securing peace, relieving pain;
And making many hearts rejoice.
Imparting hope and faith, again
With music in her soothing voice.

Then may her usefulness extend
Throughout all time.  Life has no close!
For her our fervent prayers ascend
As full of incense, as the rose
Is full of fragrance sweet and rare.
And may each year in onward flight
Increasing blessings to her spare!
And as the morning, make the night.
	Your loving friend,
