LOVE.

	Love what is it; I sometimes think we do
not know.  The Savior said: “Love the Lord
thy God, with all thy might, mind and

[Column 2]
strength.” What course shall we pursue to
do this.  One thing is to be prayerful, another
to “honor thy father and thy mother;” also a
great many other things.  Sometimes there
are requirements made of us which go dread-
fully against our natural inclinations.  But
the Lord teaches us that sacrifice brings forth
the blessings of heaven; and he has established
a code of laws, by which we are to be governed
in order to return back into his presence.  Just
as we make laws to govern each other in tem-
poral affairs, which we all know are highly
necessary to maintain peace and good order
in a community, and which tend to sustain
and develop each other’s rights.  Now we all
expect a home in the gseat hereafter, or should
do, but when we contemplate that, let us ask
ourselves—what kind of a home do we want?
Do we desire to mingle with those we love in
our eternal home?  Or can we afford to cast
ourselves out of the fold, in order to gratify
some selfish desire.  The Lord wants us to
have much faith, and I sometimes think we
imagine we have, and want others to think
the same, and are very indignant, if they ex-
press themselves in any different way.  The
Lord says: “Show me your faith without your
works, and I will show you my faith by my
works.” Now we love the Lord and desire to
return back into his presence, what is to be
done?
	Out of love for us God sent His Only Be-
gotten Son, to suffer, bleed and die, and he
teaches us that, “no greater love hath man,
than to lay down our his life for his brother.  Are
we willing to lay down our life for brother or
sister?” I fear not, I sometimes think we are
not always willing to even tell the truth when
it would frequently do them so much good;
and perhaps save them much sorrow, besides
frequently helping them to hold and main-
tain their honor.  A thing which I fear is
sometimes very carelessly dealt with; notwith-
standing, the amount of knowledge we all
have, that when our honor is once degraded, it
is much harder to establish than it was to tear
down.  The Lord wants us to love one another,
and in doing this we prove our love for him.
But we must also love ourselves, and in order
to do this, we do not have to be selfish, un-
grateful, or fail to appreciate the blessiugs we
daily receive from our heavenly father, or dis-
regard the accommodations and kindnesses we
receive from our brothers and sisters.  But I
think if we love ourselves properly, or with a
God-like love, we will take a God-like course.
One might say that is far beyond my reach;
but do not think so, the Lord never told a
people to do any thing which they could not
do.  For he has declared that “as thy day thy
strength shall be;” and who ever knew his
word to fail.
	There is a subject which weighs heavily
upon my mind, and that is the course which
some of our beautiful young girls take in mar-
