	    THURBER, PIUTE COUNTY.

	On Friday, June 28th, the Stake President,
Sister Elizabeth Bean with her Counselor
Thirza Thurber, also Brother George Bean
visited our settlement, held meeting here at
ten a. m.  Opened by singing, "Welcome
best of all good meetings.  Prayer by Geo.
W. Stringam, singing, "The towers of Zion
soon shall rise." Sister Thurber was the first
speaker, she gave us many good instructions
on various subjects, exhorting us to be faith-
ful in our duties, careful mothers in all our
acts, showing good examples to the young
people; said she never went to meeting but she
was benefitted by it; we should be punctual in
attendance; recommended short meetings and
short sermons and to take a good spirit with us
and we would have a good meeting.  We should
improve our minds by reading good books
especially church works, sermons and so on
said she felt well in her labors, prayed God to
bless all in the name of Jesus.
	Our Stake President, Sister E. Bean thought
the small attendance at meeting was due to
the people being out on their ranches dairying
etc. and after transacting business in appoint-
ing a grain committee counseled the Sisters to
pray for wisdom and be wise, advising as many
as could to take the EXPONENT as it was full
of good instructions; if we were in trouble to
pray in secret and make God our confident
and draw near unto him and he would draw
near unto us.  Brother Bean also gave good
instructions on the storing of grain; advised
mothers to be careful of the children for the
powers of evil are abroad.  Brother Stringam
had been highly edified knew the spirit of God
was with us hoped we would remember the
instructions we had heard.  Brother Mansfield
knew the Relief Society formed an important
part in the Church, prayed God to bless us in
our labors.  Counselors M. H. Bullard and
Eliza G. C. Brinkahoff made some closing
remarks short but to the point.  Closed by
singing.  Benediction by Matthew W. Mansfield.
			SARAH C. MEEKS, President.
			BETSEY S. GOODWIN, Secretary.


