UNCOMMON COURAGE.
	During the last Congress a bill was passed
providing for the disestablishment of the
Mormon Church. All its assetts in excess of
$50,000 not used exclusively for religious
purposes were to be delivered into the hands
of a receiver, its affairs wound up and its
property was to escheat to the United States.
Under the provisions of this bill the receiver
obtained possession of farm lands, coal lands,
[Column 2]
gas stock, telegraph stock, droves of cattle,
flocks of sheep and other property, worth in
in all about $900,000, and today the Mormon
Church is paying to the United States Govern-
ment rent for the use of its former possessions.
It is claimed that the Mormom Church is
dangerous, But is it any more closely united,
does it have greater weight in politics than the
Church of Rome? Has it ever taken such a
decided political stand as the Methodist Church
took at its recent conference in New York,
where the platform of the prohibition party
was enthusiastically endorsed? The Mormon
doctrine sanctioning polygamy has been the
principal source of trouble. Congress very
properly undertook to root out this practice,
and Senator Edmunds’ bill in 1882 met with
satisfactory success. But Congress was not
content to stop there. After enacting the most
stringent laws against polygamy, it passed the
confiscation bill, which can be regarded only
as a direct attack upon a religious corporation.
This measure is of a piece with the treatment
to which the Mormons have been subjected
throughout their history. In 1844, officers of
Illinois arrested two men and confined them in
jail at Carthage. A mob collected, broke open
the doors of the jail, seized the prisoners and
murdered them. People said then, and some
still assert, that justice was meted out to
Joseph Smith and his brother. But is lynch
law likely to secure the justice which Ameri-
can citizens wish to see enforced? On the
banks of the Mississippi the Mormons built a
flourishing city. But the people of Illinois
did not want such neighbors, and so for three
days they bombarded Nauvoo. In the open-
ing of winter, men, women and children were
driven from their homes, compelled to forsake
their possessions and flee they knew not
whither. We glorify our persecuted Pilgrim
Fathers, who planted amid the snows and rocks
of a wilderness the seeds of free government
and their chosen religion. Is their case
essentially unlike that of the Mormons?
Literally hunted from State to State, they
too, resolved to found a home where they
might enjoy religious freedom. Through an
unknown desert, over the Rocky Mountains,
encompassed by dangers, they pushed their
way until they reached the Salt Lake basin.
In subsequent years the persecutors of the
Puritans did not withold from the settlers of
New England their due meed of praise; and
all men who believe in the progress of the
world, though condemning to the lowest in-
ferno the Mormon creed, should laud the
principle that guided both Puritan and
Mormon in their wanderings. When Roger
Williams preached religious freedom in Massa-
chusetts they drove him from the colony, but
they permitted him to enjoy his religious
opinions in his new home. The Church of
Utah was haunded from place to place till it
found a refuge in the Western desert, and the
descendents of the New England Puritans are
not satisfied to allow it to rest even there.
While a dollar remains to the Church of
Mormons the carpetbag politicians of Utah
will clamor for it, and Congress, in granting it,
will imagine that it is rooting out polygamy.
The cause of the Mormon church is the cause
of every church in the Territories. If the
United States Government can confiscate the
property of one religious corporation, what is
to prevent it from doing the same to any other
denomination at any time it shall please?
When the profligate John Wilkes championed
the liberty of the press and advocated parlia-
mentary reform he became a hero. The
Mormon Church of Utah represents today as
sacred a principle as John Wilkes or Roger
Williams ever stood for; and Congress in com-
bating this principle is not checking the in-
fluences of Mormonism.”


