EDITORIAL NOTES.
	Mrs Zina D. H. Young, General President of
the Relief Society left the city on Wednesday


August 7. on a tour through Beaver, Panguitch,
and Millard Stakes. Aunt Zina remained over
night at Springville on her way, to visit her
brother Oliver Huntington who resides there, and
resumed her journey the following day August 8
having been joined by Mrs Minerva W. Snow. 
These sisters proceeded direct to Milford, where
they were met by a carriage from Beaver, and 
held meeting Friday Aug. 9, at Minersville, and
afterwards meeting on the way at Greenville 
and Adamsville, arriving at Beaver, Saturday
night where they expected to remain about three
days, and from there go to Panguitch.
	Sister M. Isabella Horne one of the leading
sisters of Zion and President of the Relief
Society of Salt Lake Stake and who also holds
other important positions among the women of Zion, 
is paying a visit to her daughter Mrs. Nora Spen-
cer in Paris, Bear Lake County, Idaho; she is accom-
panied by her husband Elder Jos. Horne and other
members of the family, all hoping to find a cooler
climate, although Sister Horne will doubtless ac-
cording to her regular custom when away or when
at home be holding meetings, talking to the sisters,
encouraging and interesting them in their duties
and labors in the organizations of the Relief 
Society, Young Ladies and Primary. Mrs. Martha
H. Tingey is with her mother and as she is First
Counselor in the General Presidency of the Y. L.
M. I. A. she will likely meet with the Young
Ladies and give them the benefit of her wise
counsel and experience in matters pertaining to
their best interests and advancement. 
	Before going to press, Sister Horne returned
from her trip to Bear Lake, and informs us that 
she held meetings in Paris, both branches of the
Relief Society coming together on Thursday,
the 25th of July, and on Friday, went to Mont-
pelie- with Sisters Lindsay and Sheppard, offi-
cers of that Stake, and held meeting there at two
o'clock. Saturday morning went over to Ben-
nington and met with the sisters at ten o'clock.
As it was the haying season there were not as 
many brethren who could attend, although those
who did attend were much pleased as usual,
with the spirit of the meetings and the instruc-
tions given. The Relief Society and other or-
ganizations in the Stake are in a prosperous con-
dition. The minutes of the meeting were very
good. Sister Horne found her daughter, Mrs.
Horne found her daughter, Mrs. Geo. Spencer
and family all well. Her two daughters who
accompanied her, Mrs. M. H. Tingey and Mrs.
Clara E. James have enjoyed the trip and visit
with friends, very much.


