HEPHZIBAH.
	V.
	Childhood, how passing sweet its radiant hours;
	The loves and friendships of our early youth;
	Enchantment dwelt within its fairy bowers;
	Adorned with germs of purity and truth.

	Morning came, a lovely morn, and Hepsie
unpacked her little trunk and made ready for
the Sabbath for this was Saturday; after that
she wanted to take a walk, and as her mother
had told her to ask Mrs. G’s consent to every-
thing, she asked the lady’s permission. She
spent most of the day in the garden, and Mrs.
G. in addition to her domestic duties, assisted
the Rev. Erasmus in preparing his sermon.
Hephzibah was keen in her perceptions, and
she discovered on her first day at the parson-
age, that Mrs. G. wrote much of the sermon
herself. If she left “the study” for a minute
or two, to attend to domestic affairs, the Rev
Erasmus in dressing gown and slippers,
would open the door of his study, and in his
blandest tone, call “Deborah.”
	The next morning was the Sabbath, and in
a minister's house, especially in New England
there was always a peculiarly, subdued at-
mosphere on Sunday, Mrs. Grovesner had
considerable worry in fixing her husband off
to meeting in time, and she was too busy to
go herself as minister’s wives very often are;
and after all the sermon was left, over which
so much time had been spent. Mrs. G. found
it out when she went to dust her husband’s
study, and arrange his papers for this was part
of her work, after all he had gone, and she
hastily arrayed herself, as became the minis-
ter’s wife, in her very best silk dress and lace
bonnet and hurried up the street towards the
church; at the door she met the deacon, and
slipping the package into his hands she
hastened home again, that her husband's
dinner might be ready for him when he re-
turned:  Poor little Hepsie wondered as one
naturally would what the minister could do
without his wife. She wrote a letter to her


mother, that day according to promise; it was
her first letter, and she was very precise in
making it both neat and correct, and after
telling her mother how unhappy she was
to be so far from home, she told her as a
great secret, that  Mrs. Grovesner she was
sure wrote the sermons for her husband to
preach in the pulpit on Sundays; when the
little letter was finished, she signed her name
with a flourish of her pen underneath as she
had seen her brother do, and folded it neatly;
there were no envelopes in those days, and so
she sealed it with a pretty pink wafer, and
carried it to the post office herself, as though
it was a great treasure.
	Monday was another eventful day for the
child. The principal of the girls department
at the high school was apprised of Hepsie
Hathaway’s coming, and Mrs. Grovesner had
told Hepsie that Miss Elliott was “a most
amiable person.” Hepsie went through the
ordeal of questioning as to her age, residence,
studies and former teachers; and was finally
ushered into a large hall filled with girls, older
and larger than herself. It did not take her
long to get initiated into the ways of the school,
and she was so quick and diligent, that she
excelled in all her classes, and became a general
favorite. The girls depended upon her for
help in mathematics and composition, and she
was so fond of astronomy or the geography of
the heavens, that the young men quite admired
her, and looked upon her as superior to other
girls.
	Though Hepsie was very small of her age,
she was now constantly associated with older
girls, and was sought after by them as com-
panion and friend, and yet they were a very
different type from herself; full of fuu and
nonsense and fond of having a good time—
sometimes perpetrating practical jokes which
were very annoying and Hepsie’s unsophisti-
cated nature; they were mostly girls with “lots
of pin money;” while little Hepsie had none
to spend except as Mrs. Grovesner suggested,
therefore their little friend could not “chub”
with them in buying sweetmeats and dainties;
in fact she cared very little about that sort of
thing, and would rather ramble over the
beautiful hills, and along the pebbly streams,
and linger in the grand, old woods, among the
rocks and moss; listening to the sighing pines,
musing, soliloquizing and imagining the un-
rivaled future, than partake the most tempt-
ing meal they could offer her. The child had
strange presentiments concerning her desting,
which haunted her unmistakably, and which
she would fain have unraveled, if possible,
but as yet it was intangible only a myth.
The cultivated people with whom she was
being brought in daily contact at the minister’s
house, and her constant associations with Mrs.
G. herself, could not fail to develop her rapidly
she was such an impressionable, thoughtful
child. These conditions were good for Heph-
zibah, and modified her idea of life very much
though, child as she was, she saw much that
seemed little in accord with the minister’s
teachings from the pulpit on the Sabbath Day
and much also that her sensitive conscience
disapproved. How keen the perceptions of
children to judge right from wrong, is not
always remembered or recognized, one cannot
be too careful in the example set before
children. Hepsie saw much during her so-
journ at the minister’s home that was never
forgotten; the young, newly-fledged preachers
who “exchanged pulpits” occasionally with
Mr. G. were anxious to convert Hepsie and
wanted her to get a newehart. Poor thing!
she could not comprehend it, and one day she
told Mrs. Grovesner that it was quite a puzzle
to her about this “new heart,” and why did
she need it. Grandpa had thought her good
enough, and that she was tired of being told
she was a sinner, and so on. Mrs. G. asked

[Column 2]
the child how and when she had been so
worried on this subject, and she replied “when-
ever you leave the room for anything, the
moment I am alone with one of the young
ministers, I grow cold all over, because I know
he will inquire if I have had a change of
heart yet.” Mrs. Grovesner was troubled; her
eyes were opened, and from that day Hepsie
was never left alone with any strange minister.
	About this time, a few of the most popular
girls in the school entered into a sort of com-
pact together and they included Hepsie in the
number, they only wanted seven, and no more
were to be admitted. This society had
some restrictions, and a great many privileges
and school-girl like, they were full of en-
thusiasm. Marriage was the principle aim of
the Association, because one of the stipula-
tions was, that as soon as one of them married
she should be excused from the obligations
previously incumbent upon her, and Hepsie
fancied they would all leave her, unless they
should decide to remain single; but this was
not a part of the programme; they decided,
not only to marry, but that each one should
marry a man with a title of eminence, Rev.
Prof., D.D., M.D. or A.M. Poor little Hepsie
heard this and shuddered, she thought of the
Rev. Erasmus, his selfishness, and the many
petty foibles so apparent in his character, and
as she was devotedly attatched to the seven,
she felt bound in honor to speak out, “would
you love a man that was cross, and disagree-
able, and never satisfied, wait upon him, work
for him, plan for his pleasure, though he never
thought you were tired, or sick, or wanted
rest or peace; who always sat in the parlor 
when company came, and talked while his
wife cooked the supper and made
all ready for the comfort of his
distinguished guests as he calls them." All
this and much more came like a crash from
the little one, whom they had never dreamed
could assert herself like that. The girls were
amazed, and so was Hepsie, at her on cour-
age, she broke down then and began to cry as
children do when overwrought, as we all do
when the very fountains of our hearts are
stirred.
She felt like a culprit too, what right had she
to betray family secrets—she loved Mrs. G. for
tho' she had been strict yet she had been dili-
gent and true to her trust, and Hepsie only
knew what her perceptiosn told her. She was
quite vexed with herself for her freedom.
“Don’t cry” said sweet-tempered tender-hearted
Jane.
	“What do you know about love or things of
that kind, why your’e still in short dresses and
pantalettes. Your opinion indeed, fie child, my
brother will be a Rev. some day he’s at Yae
now such a fine fellow all the girls admire him
and any one might thank her lucky stars to
get him and his title”—this was Miss Fay, her
fsther was an Esquire and she was as haughty
as though he had been a Baron. It amounts
to almost the same thing a ’squire in a country
village is held in as high esteem almost as
titled aristocrats in the old world.  Neverthe-
less Miss Fay was not a great favorite, but she
was kind of a leader and she could ill book the
interposition of a little opinionated child like
Hepsie Hathaway. After all she felt in her
heart the child was more than a match for her.
Hepsie did know something about love, albeit
it was only an intuition, and she herself could
not have defined her own delicate sense of the
divine sentiment.
	Unvittingly she had touched a chord in the
heart of each of these young and blooming
maidens, so much older and wiser in the ways
of the world, it was the very outbusrt of
spontaneity.
			[To be continued.]


