MARIA MITCHELL.

	The death of this great astronomer occurred
at her home in Lynn, Massacusetts, July 3rd.
For the last two years she had been in failiug
health, but the news of her death was a sur-
prise and shock. Regardless of sex she was
one of the great scientists of the age. She was
a tender, loving friend to the thousands of
girls who had come under her instruction, and 
as she was an outspoken advocate of woman
suffrage, and the firm friend of its leaders, her
loss will be greatly mourned in their ranks. 
The Hartford, Connecticut, Times gives this 
concise account of her life:
	Miss Mitchell was born in Nantucket. She
would have been 71 had she lived till the 1st
of August. Doubtless she had not the astonish-
ing mathematical powers of her English prede-
cessor, Mrs. Somerville, in the exploration of
the starry heavens and their sublime laws.
But she was the world's one great living fe-
male astronomer, and had been, for more than
thirty years. She may have been indebted
for her choice of astronmy as her field, to the
circumstances of her having been early an as-
sistant of her father, a Nantucket school
teacher, in his astronomical studies. However
that  may be, she became greatly interested in
the study, and gave particular attention to
nebulae and comets. For the discovery of a 
comet in 1847 she received a gold medal from
the King of Denmark. Her subsequent work
on the United States coast survey, and on the 
Nautical Almanac, continued for ten years,
when in 1857 she resigned it and went to Eu-
rope, where she visited all the great observa-
tories and made personal acquaintance of lead-
ing European astronomers. Twenty years ago
she received the appointment of astronomical
professor at Vassar; a position which she held,
discharging in an able manner its active duties,
until, two or three years ago, failing health
compelled her to resign. She was a member
of the American Association far the Advance-
ment of Science, and of the American Acad-
emy of Arts and Science, and in fact, was al-
together a remarkable woman. A woman who
can calculate eclipses, test the question of the
parallax of a fixed star, and give us informa-
tion concerning the nebulae, may well be cele-
brated by the advocates of the modern doc-
trine, that women can do some, at least, and
a sublime part, too, of the work of men.---Ex.


