[Column 1]
W. S. A. Meeting.
	The Utah W. S. A. held its regular meeting
in the Social Hall on Friday July 19, Vice
Pres. Mrs. Nellie R. Webber in the chair.  On
the platform at her side the Ch. of the Ex.
Com. Mrs Ann E. Groosbeck, The Secretary
Mrs. C. H. Horne and the Treasurer Miss
Margie Dwyer were also present, Miss V. Neb-
eker furnished music on the organ, and a
prayer was offered by the Chaplain Dr. E. S.
Barney.  Minutes of foumer meeting were
read by the Secretary and also the revised By
Laws were read and voted upon, names of new
members presented and some micellaneous busi-
ness transacted.  A letter was read by the

[Column 2]
Secretary from the President Mrs. Margaret
Caine tendering her resignation, which was
formally accepted and a motion was made and
seconded that Mrs. L. D. Alder be acting
President the remainder of the year.
	The Chairman then called upon Mrs. S. M.
Kimball who had just recently returned from
the East to address the audience.
	Mrs. Kimball made some telling remarks
on the suffrage question, and then took up
the subject of dress reform. She had visited
the rooms of Annie Jenness Miller in New
York, and had examined into the details of
the matter somewhat deeply, and her remarks
were interesting and the subject as she pre-
sented it worthy the careful attention and in-
vestigation of all concerned in the future
welfare and well-being of mankind.
		MRS. E. B. WELLS.
		ADDRESS TO U. W. S. A.
	Mrs. President, Ladies and Gentlemen.—
Last night in pondering over the subject of an
address to this assembly which I had been re-
quested to make to-day, these words came
forcibly to my mind:

		I live for those who love me
		For those who know me true,
		For the heaven that smiles above me
		And the good that I can do.

	Otherwise in the midst of my multiplicity of
duties I should have given it up. If my ex-
perience or my views are of any benefit to those
less acquainted with the franchise, or who
have not had the same opportunities for ob-
taining information on these points, then I am
willing to do my best to help—hoping that I
may do some little grain of good.
	I do not, and never could understand why
sensible women with mature ideas should pro-
test against woman’s suffrage; the ballot for
women as well as men seems to me to be en-
tirely consistent with the principles of justice
and equity, and I cannot comprehend why
men need the franchise more than women;
those who believe that all men support and
protect all women, might say so, but every
woman that has kept her eyes open in this
world knows that this is not the case.
	There are to be sure honorable exceptions,
but it is not the general rule—think of it ye
who may! Women have quite as much at
stake in all matters pertaining to “life, liberty
and the pursuit of happiness" as men, and
they belong to the people, that is in our country
it has been so declared. The preamble of the
constitution says, “We the people of the
United States in order to form a more perfect
union, establish justice, ensure domestic tran-
quility, provide for the common defense, pro-
mote the general welfare, and secure the bless-
ings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity,
do ordain and establish this constitution for
the United States of America.” Certainly
women were a part and included in this great
body politic. They desire justice and are the
ones who do the most to promote domestic
tranquility, and when it says “for ourselves
and our posterity,” who is more interested than
the mother? In the days when these words
were written there is not the least doubt that
the women did their full share of the work,
and helped carry the burdens. We who have
been pioneers in colonizing can appreciate
something of their duties and the cares that must
necessarily have fallen upon these early settlers
of America.
	Are men really so much more capable than
their mothers, or wives, or sisters? That is a
question still open to discussion, and many
learned men and women have argued it in print
under the title of “sex in brain". and as far as
co-education is concerned where young men
and young women have been trained in
the same pursuits and studies, and by the
same methods, the girls quite frequently

[Column 3]
carry off the honors; which was notably the
case recently in San Francisco—as you who
read the papers must know.
	Article I. of the amendment to the con-
stitution says: “The right of the people to
peacably assemble and petition for a redress
of grievances, etc.” That right is one that
I think has never been denied to women,
though quite often the redress sought has not
been obtained. In this women are recognized
as a part of the people. But as we often say
in regard to the scriptnres, so it is in politics.
Man means woman in certain places, but when
the divines and law-givers want it to mean
man alone—they so decide. And so they con-
tinue to deal out to women, as they feel in-
clined, a little here and a little there, or none
at all as the case may be, place and power in
public life.
	I know some advocates of woman suffrage
say, if men will not give us our just rights—
equal privileges,we will not accept a part; we
want the whole loaf and not crumbs, but the
principle a little at a time is certainly better
than none at all—and when any new revolu-
tion in affairs comes gradually the people are
better prepared to take hold of it. Here is a
pretty poetical illustration:

	Little by little the torrent said
	As it swept along its narrow bed,
		Chafing in wrath and pride,
	Little by little and day by day,
	And with every wave it bore away
	A grain of sand from the banks which lay
		Like granite walls on either side

Whereupon you will readily, see I an in favor
of taking what we can get, let it be ever so
grudgingly given. The great point to be
gained now, is to prepare women for the polit-
ical privileges that are bound to come, if they
do come slowly.
	We often say the mothers need it, and that
is true, there are I believe more arguments in
favor of mothers than any other class, though
I would not state it positively; but there are
women and I have instances one or two,
especially in my mind, who are not mothers,
who are and have been public benefactors, and
I think how much more they could have ac-
complished if they had been privileged with
the political and I might almost say social
rights of men. They have been deprived of
motherhood such as has been vouchsafed to
others, perhaps for the greater good they have
accomplished as mothers of peoples.
	There is much that might be said definitely
on this subject, but there is one other of vital
importance I would like to touch, and that is
the mother’s right to her child—it is said of
one woman that when she heard that in the
State of Rhode Island—the father could ap-
point a guardian for his child and deprive the
mother of all right to it if he so chose, she
said: “Why do not all the women of America
cry aloud against this terrible injustice to
mothers?” Many of the states have had their
laws more or less modified in this respect, since
women began agitating equal rights, but much
injustice in this regard still exists.
	Next on the programme was a song very
sweetly rendered by Miss E. Morehead.
	ROMANIA B. PRATT M. D..
Some reasons for women studying politics.
	“Politics is the science of government, that
part of ethics which has to do with the regu-
lation and government of a nation or state.
The preservation of its safety, peace and pros-
perity, the defense of its existence and rights
against foreign control or conquest, the aug-
mentation of its strength and resources, and
the protection of its citizens in their rights,
with the perservation and improvement of their


