		       ﻿IN MEMORIAM.
     Died July 28th at her residence in St. George
Utah, Mrs. Sarah Anterberry Church, widow of
Haden W. Church.  Sister Church was born on

[column 2]
the 4th of May, 1824 in Dallas Co. Alabama. She
was baptized and confirmed in the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints by Elder John
Brown.
     She was subsequently married to Haden W.
Church in her native State. She and her husband
shortly after proceeded to Nauvoo, where they
arrived about the year 1845 not long before the
exodus from that place. They were among the
foremost of the company when the Saints moved
west. When the call of the United States govern-
ment for the “Mormons” to furnish five hundred
men to assist in the war with Mexico, Bro. Church
was among the number to enlist, leaving his wife
with her first babe to make her way as best she
could to the Valley of Salt Lake, where she
arrived in September 1847.
     Bro. and Sister Church were for many years
permanent residents of the 14th ward in this City
Sister Church was a member and active worker in
the Relief Society in an early day and was an
intimate friend of Sister Phebe Woodruff and
Ma Smoot. Sister Church was also an intimate
friend of our beloved “Sister Eliza.”
     At the General Conference in October 1861.
Bro. Church and his family were called to South-
ern Utah, and taking up their line of march again
in a wagon they were among the very first to settle
on the present site of St. George, and Sister
Church has resided there ever since up to the time
of her demise. She was a most exemplary dili-
gent and faithful Latter-Day Saint.  In the first
Ward of St. George she was First Counselor in
the Relief Society to the President, Sister Hannah
E. Crosby and they were daily associated in their
labors of love among the people of the ward and
were like two sisters in very deed. Sister Crosby
was in Salt Lake City at the time of the decease
of her dear friend and Counselor.
     In addition to Sister Church’s labors in her
home, attending to household duties, she has
been a regular worker in the St. George Temple
from the first of its opening, and was a great
blessing and comfort to all who were favored with
her administration. Sister Church was also a
nurse among the sisters and will be greatly missed
by them in times of trial and sorrow. She was
called for by night and by day to go here and
there where her help was needed, and never failed
to respond if it was possible for her to go.
     She was always cheerful, full of faith and her
energy of character was remarkable. She pos-
sessed those hospitable and benevolent traits of
character so conspicuous in the Southern people,
in an eminent degree, was always self denying
and forgot her own troubles in ministering to
others. Her memory will ever be preserved fresh
and green in the hearts of the people among
whom she lived and labored so faithfully in the
Latter-day work. All honor to her noble woman-
hood. A faithful and devoted wife, a wise, tender
and judicious mother. “Her children,” will as-
suredly “rise up and call her blessed.” And all
Israel will praise her name and hold it in honor-
able remembrance.
     She leaves one daughter and four sons one of
them now on a mission to the Southern States,
and twenty-eight grand children who will mourn
her loss deeply. It is said by some of her friends
that she grieved so much when her son was im-
prisoned for his fidelity to principle, that she never
afterwards recovered herself, and it is thought to-
have been the primal cause of the illness of
which she died. There have been many such
martyrs, mothers and wives since the crusade be
gan against this people, and their names are no
doubt inscribed oh the martyr’s roll.
     Sister Church has gone to meet her husband,
Sisters Woodruff,Smoot, Sister Eliza, the Prophet
Joseph, and many others, her death was
no doubt a glorious victory to her, and her un-
wavering faith and diligence in keeping the com-
mandments of God will secure to her the promise


she held sacred of a part in the First Resurrection
of the just. We sincerely sympathize with the
bereaved ones, and may our Heavenly Father
soften this affliction to them by imparting his Holy
Spirit in rich abundance, to soothe their grief, and
her children follow her illustrious example that
they may meet her again in the Celestial World
where there will be no more parting forevermore.
			“No aching hearts are there,
	No tear dimmed eye, no form by sickness wasted,
	No cheek grown pale through penury or care;
	No spirits crushed beneath the woes they bear
					bliss untasted." 
			Er hath not heard the song
	Of rapturous praise within that shining portal,
	No heart of man hath dreamed what joys belong,
	To that redeemed and happy blood-washed throng,
			All glorious and immortal.


