THE SUFFRAGE QUESTION.

	I have read with great satisfaction and pride
the doings of the different, W. S. A. which are
being organized in the different Connties.  It
truly argues a very commendable spirit
amongst the women of Utah and serves to
show that knowing their rights, have been un-
justly torn from them they dare strive to
regain them, and will defend their position
against all opposition		.  I felt proud of
the speeches made by the young ladies on the
occasion of their organization, showing talent,
combined with good practical common
sense.—
	The progress of the Womans Suffrage
Movement is an interesting topic.  This
question has served to bring to the point, a
great amount of talent—and deep thought—,
which would otherwise have lain in obscurity,
and the persons themselves would not have been
aware of what they were capable of.  (Thus
accomplishing a double purpose).  So true it
is that every important event that transpires,
and which the mass of the people are interested
in, helps to develop hidden talent, that would
otherwise dwarf or dwindle away for lack of
active exercise.—
	Now here in this sweltering region of Ari-
zona.  We are not exercised very much at the
present time, as to who makes the laws, or who
runs the machinery.  About all the majority
of us are capable of, is to sit in the shade of 
their own or neighbors’ fig tree, and eat the
fruit of their vines and exercise the Palm
leaf, in the vain hope of catching a cool
breeze.  We cannot do much but sit and see


the rest struggle for those inherent rights
which every true friend of humanity would
willingly labor for.
	The mothers of the nation, should certainly
take an interest in the laws that govern them,
and if allowed to vote would sustain good
wholesome laws administered by just, upright
men who are above bribery and corruption
of every kind.  Now, it is not the Offices that
the women are asking for at present but the
Officers, they want their choice.  They are
pleading for what rightly belongs to them, and
I firmly beleive that the time is not far distant
when their rights and privileges will work
along naturally.  But it is well to keep the,
subject a brewing.  In the meantime the
women of Utah should improve their oppor-
tunities, cultivate energy and self-reliance for
without these we cannot hope to accomplish
anything, and be united in the grand work
which is before them, study the laws of their
country and get themselves posted on the
true science of government.  that they may
labor intelligently in the cause.  It would be
the height of folly to think we could go to the
top of the ladder the first leap but step by
step we will climb until the uppermost round
is gained.  Onward and upward should be our
motto, and trust in God and the success of all
women to equal rights and privileges will be
sure.  God speed the day.
		Yours in the cause of right.
								S.


