A VOICE FROM THE TWENTIETH
			WARD.
	Being a lover of flowers and shrubs I strolled
around to see some of the lovely places last eve-
ning, but instead of the many-hued flowers and
fragrant climbers, roses, etc. one sees scorched
grass, parched flowers and dying trees. In pass-
ing one of our city councilor’s I found some of his
dying as well as mine, and yet the City Council
are accused and abused every day; but like a
wise man he was making the best of the situation,
and had instructed his gardener to perforate some
oil cans about an inch from the bottom, which if
kept filled with water would keep the roots moist
and perhaps save the plants. I believe the Lord
helps those that help themselves. There has been
considerable talk this Summer about priority of
City creek water which all amounts to nothing.
	My husband owns and has cultivated a bench
lot for twenty-four years or more, but can’t re-
member the summer that irragation alone would
keep it green and fertile; many times we have
carried water from the ditch for an hour at a time
to the lower part of the garden because the
stream was so low and besides, many summers we
have been in the habit of saving soap-suds and
scrubbing water to carry to our trees. But says
one, with soapy water you will surely kill them but
we have proven it to be a good fertilizer, not only
large trees, but I give it to my climbers and house
plants occasionally, it has never killed one yet, but
makes them green and strong, but I presume our
leading Florist John Reading will not approve of
that statement; but I can pick many bouquets all
winter from my plants; so you see Mrs. Wells
there are many ways to help the growth of the
beautiful.
	Our peaceful ward and playground was invaded
by our would be tyrants last night; how can they
call themselves “Liberals” when they would make
serfs and slaves of us, they would increase our
taxes so much that a poor man would not be able
to maintain his family; the next visit they pay us
we would be more pleased if they would let our
old Schoolhouse alone. It is a dear old land-
mark of the Twentieth ward, how many times we
have taken our pictures and decorations and some-
times furniture to make it attractive for our social
entertainments. It makes the tears start when I
think of the good old social time.
	Some of us mothers would send a lounge over
covered with a nice soft Buffalo robe for our
babies to sleep on while we joined in the merry
dance, oh how well I remember the first leap-year
party we had there, an old friend of mine chose
Pres. Young and Kimball for her patners in a
Scotch reel, what a pleasant evening we spent.
How many of the dear old “stand-bys” in their
clean sunbonnets would partake of the Sacrament
on the Sabbath, week after week in that same
dear, old school house. How many pleasant
Relief Society meetings, we have held these when


we would knit sow and vuilt in the days of Ma
Smoot and Sister Sharp.  How many of ro dear
friends have we taken from there to the Silent City
it seems to me I could fill a book of the pleasant
times we have had in that old School house, it will
never seem old to us.
	We never asked our "Liberal" friends to help
build it, we built by donation, and I can very
well remember the gentleman that was heaping
abuse upon it last night teaching school there
for his living but I can assure him it has been
very much improved since that time, and recent
donations have made it very comfortable for many
purposes, I can assure them last nights talk won't
help their cause in this ward, for many of the
young people were not in the habit of listening to
such talk, besides hearing their parents Malighd.
I don't think many will follow them: as for free
schools we will leave that to the future.
	The rains and Mr. Webbs cold wave we will be
thankfull for when the Lord sends them, we are
n his hands and will abide his time, we came
here have worked hard to make our homes and
build our School houses through the blessings of
our Father in heaven we have done it, many of us
walked half the journey from Florence to Salt
Lake City, and carried our babes and if the Lord
permits us to live, we intend to stay, and if our
trees die we will plant more.  The down trodden
women of Utah have learned to do all kinds of
work, lest I tire you I will call myself one of Bro.
Naisbitts,
						Old Fashioned Mothers.
August 3rd 1889.


