NEITHER DEFEAT OR VICTORY.

	The Peoples Party have not suffered any defeat
in the recent election, neither have the Liberals
gained anything of a victory; though they made
a great ado and noise and held "high revelry” so
clamorous as to be distressing One would won-
der if those young men with stentorian lungs ever
thought of the injury they were doing to the sick
the nervous, and the aged. Besides what was
accomplished by it? Nothing at all unless it was
the gratification of a few with vitiated tastes who
delight in a species of barbarism frightening
women and children, wakening them from peace-
ful sleep to a perfect pandemonium
	These "Liberals” have not done themselves
proud, nor honored their party, by yelling and
hooting and making night hideous.

	“As when in tumults rise the ignoble crowd,
	Mad are their motions, and their tounges are loud."

	It seemed only noise that they wanted to make,
they were so hilarious and full of exultation, that
what the crowd might have done if they had
carried the City, as they vainly tried to make
people believe, against their own knowledge of
facts, it is impossible to conceive.
	As for some of their orators, they incited the
maddening crowd no doubt, as in other days and
times now long past, when it was said,—

					“That talking knave
	Consumes his time in speeches to the rabble,
	And sows sedition up and down the city.
	Picking up discontented fools, belying
	The senators and government; destroying
	Faith among honest men, and praising knaves."

	If the Liberals think to gain any of the votes of
the Peoples Party by any such "hurrah” as that
of Monday night the 5th of August, they will be
sadly mistaken, and they will have less votes in-
stead of more for all the carousing they have
done. There is an old saying, "Don’t crow until
you are out of the woods, "which may prove
applicable to the Liberals.
	The Peoples Party are strong and it is hoped
will be vigilant; and we entertain no fears
of a victory for the Liberals in Feburary and
most confidently believe the People’s Party
will carry the election if honest means are em-
ployed "Taxation without representation is tyr-
anny,’ and those who are tax payers, of
whatever paety, should have fair representation;
but justice, equity, and honesty, shoulb be the
standards, and not political trickery.


