LESSON III. Literature (Third Week in March) AUTOBIOGRAPTHY OF JOAQUIN MILLER 24 PT HS The Autobiography of Cincinnatus Hiner (sometimes written Heine) "Joaquin" Miller has been published in various places and will probably be available in almost any library in the country. Volume one of Joaquin Miller's Poems, published in 1917 by the Harr Wagner Publishing Company of San Francisco, is a convenient one to use, if available. Joaquin Miller was a strange being, so strange that even Western people who should know him best scarcely know him at all. This is due partly to his reported eccentricities and partly to the fact that it has been popular among critics either to distort the peculiarities or else to ignore him entirely. Now that he has joined the immortals, perhaps a calmer, saner attitude will be taken toward him and his work. His autobiography is a naive statement of his experiences. It is not long and gives no very adequate picture of him; but with his poems, which he says are foot-notes to his life, it does round into something like a complete likeness. His habit of calling his father papa throughout the autobiography adds to the spirit of simplicity, causing the reader to wonder if the poet ever did grow into manhood. That he felt the American attitude toward him and his works to be unfair is indicated early in his notes. He says, "In dedicating this final edition of my poems to the memory of my parents, please let me introduce them to you, and, incidentally, introduce myself; for it really seems to me that from the day I was suddenly discovered and pointed out in London I have been an entire stranger in my own land?the land I have loved, lived for, battled for from the first. As for that red-shirted and hairy man bearing my name abroad and "standing before kings", I never saw him, never heard of him until on returning to my own country I found that this unpleasant and entirely impossible figure ever attended or even overshadowed my most earnest work. I desire that my lines shall be read and remembered for the merit which the British seem to have discovered in them, and quite apart from that creation of the American imagination, the stalwart, red-shirted and six-shootered hairy man of the Sierra Nevada mountains. Hence this sketch of my gentle and pious parents, involving the story of my stormy youth." The poet's story might well be a page from the journal of  some good Latter-day Saint, so similar were his experiences to those of many of our own ancestors. "My cradle," he says, "was a covered wagon pointed west. I was born in a covered wagon, I am told, at or about the time it crossed the line dividing Indiana and Ohio, wherein my mother was born." The wagon housing this pious family of Quakers continued pointing west at intervals until the boy at last found himself on the shores of the "Sundown Seas." The father, a gentleman, according to his son, never in his life fired a gun. In fact, he had a great horror for fire arms and found it unnecessary to resort to their use in any of his pioneer experiences. Being a school master, the father of Joaquin Miller spent much of the time on Sundays and in the evenings reading to his little flock. He was devout in the matter of prayers and blessings on the food and reared his children to be the same. As in so many pioneer households, the mother seemed to be the better manager of the two. Trundle beds, homemade clothing, scant rations, heart breaks, ecstacies, troop through the pages of this simple narrative just as they do through the majority of nur own pioneer literature, for the Millers were pioneers in the finest sense of the term. Bits like this make all of us kin: "A few days before this little rebellion by the baby boy in his first pantaloons," (the boy refused longer to sleep in the cradle) "an honest man and a pretty young girl, really the prettiest woman I had ever seen except my mother, came to papa to be married, and, as usual, where money was so scarce, brought two coon skins. And they were very fine skins, killed in the heart of winter and dressed to perfection......... "Mother had claimed these two beautiful skins for some special purpose of her own and put them away under her pillow, where she always kept the money when there was any money, and she now brought out the beautiful skins, which Jimmy had also admired very much and she put them carefully and tenderly in the cradle, smoothing them down with her hands and talking gently baby talk to Jimmy........ No cradle for Jimmy Miller. So mother took the coon skins out, for a time at least, and the cradle was put back in the smoke house. "Soon after, a good old Southern woman came from the Billy Fields settlement and sent us little folks away to Billy Fields and his house full of girls. And when the old woman went away we were all back home and very, very happy. "But let me tell you the end of this chapter in verse. For there are things that are sacred from severe prose and a song suits better the theme. This is from Harper's Magazine: WHEN LITTLE SISTER CAME "We dwelt in the woods of the Tippecanoe, In a lone, lost cabin, with never a view Of the full day's sun for a whole year through. With strange half hints through the russet corn We three were hurried one night. Next morn There was frost on the trees, and a sprinkle of snow And tracks on the ground. We burst through the door And a girl baby cried?and then we were four. "We were not sturdy, and we were not wise, In the things of the world, and the ways men dare; A pale-browed mother with a prophet's eyes A father that dreamed and iooked any where. Three brothers?wild blossoms, tall fashioned as men And we mingled with none, but we lived as when The pair first lived, ere they knew the fall; And loving all things we believed in all."