[Vol9 | April 1922 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Bubbles and Troubles Ruth Moench Bell]

BUBBLES  of these people take marriage seriously. None of them understand or could respect our beautiful love. They would only scoff or think it fun to get him away from me." Soon came news of the arrival of a daughter to Rhea. "She is a love child," Rhea wrote. "We call her Betty. She is so tiny, so dainty and exquisite, all soul and love in a béautiful body. She seems to be a lovely angel that has floated into our arms to nestle there and love us and be loved. But I must go back to vaudeville, Marjory. I am jealous of these women who act with Barney. They are so careless of their caresses. And while Barney does not seem to notice them and thinks only of Betty and me I must get him away and keep him away." Marjory, safe in the shelter of her home with her baby boy, read the next letter written nearly a year later, with vague alarm. "Betty is nearly a year old, now," Rhea's letter announced. "And we are going back to vaudeville. Our act has been accepted and we are booked right through to Chicago. We are looking forward to seeing you soon." "Mother," Marjory exclaimed, "how can they? Who will take care of the baby? One year old and eating at hotels and cafes! Oh, how will she stand it and summer coming on?" Neither Marjory nor her mother were surprised a few weeks later, when Rhea almost stumbled into the house. In the gocart outside, lay a thin wisp she called Betty. "Aunt Edith, can you take her? I've only an hour or so to catch the train and get to B—— for my act. I can't take her to mother. I can't bear that any one should have her that would think of her as a burden and not want to be bothered with her. She is all love and I want her loved. And mother still feels hard toward Barney and me. I hope Marjory never has to go through what we have endured. She has had summer complaint and I've had to wheel her into alleys back of theatres and leave her there, vomiting and covered with flies, while I ran in to do my act. Once I hailed a Greek woman I'd never seen before and asked her to stay with Babe while I ran on to do a bright, dancing 'act in gay costumes. Sometimes we have had dates canceled and been without funds. Several times we have spent the day in public parks with nothing for us to eat and only a bottle of milk for baby. Oh, it isn't all roses, Auntie. But we love each other and we must make a living. I dare not take her on to Chicago! 'Will you take her?" "Gladly," Aunt Edith responded heartily. "On one condition: you must sit right down and have a good, square, warm meal while I take care of Betty. Ralph wasn't here for dinner so I put his in the oven and I want you to eat every bit. The 208 ~ ' RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE two of you look starved. Marjory can drive you across the valley in our car so you'll get there in good time and the ride in the open air will be good for baby." "So you have a car, now?" Rhea asked as she helped herself gladly to Aunt Edith's home-cooked meal. "Yes, we decided that poverty was a thing of the mind. That we had just given up to it instead of using our brains to get out of life a few of the good things." "A few little luxuries needn't demoralize any of us. Now don't worry one bit about Betty!" Aunt Edith continued as she busied herself feeding the delicate child. 'We'll have her as plump and rosy as a baby should be. It is surprising how quickly they respond." In the car, Rhea chatted with relief and the joy of being with her own again. "Its a strange life, Mugs," she cried. "We see them on the stage, all glitter and show in their magnificent costumes and bright, lively acts. But behind the scenes, what they go through! I know of one baby that was wheeled up and down before the theatre all one day with nothing but crackers to nibble on. One woman laid off to have her baby. It was born dead. She paid the bills out of her savings. Over $300 it cost her, Then as soon as she could be up at all she went back to the old life, so weak she could scarcely stand, she danced through to make her living. And the conversation is pitiful. "My God' every other breath. And such slang and coarseness and misery and evil! Oh, of course, some. Are refined and fortunate, but they are in the minority. It makes me shudder to think of the others." "You won't always go on like this?" Marjory implored. "No, a few months and our bills will be paid. Then we must make other plans. Oh, do help Aunt Edith to love my babe," and Rhea was off. (To be continued) The Dearborn Independent, Henry Ford's paper, says the great Chicago fire of 1871, one of the. Most disastrous in the history of the country, was not started by a cow kicking over a lamp, as has been so widely published, but by tobacco smokers; that the only living newspaper man who covered the story has confessed that the reporters made up the story; that the real cause of the fire was the smoking of three or four drinking men in a hayloft of the cow-stable where the fire broke out; that the high south wind swept the flames to adjoining property and soon the city was burning—all from the smoking of tobacco.