[Vol9 | April 1922 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: Pageant, Come, Come, Ye Saints]

Written for the Wasatch Stake Relief Society
CHARACTERS AND COSTUMES
Brigham Young, William Clayton, "Dying Man," Three Pioneer
Women, Two Children, Five Pioneer Men, Eight Indian
Girls, One Indian Man, Two Squaws, Two Indian Children. Dress
as near as possible to represent characters as they really were.
The Spirit of the Desert. Dressed as a witch with gray cap
and long, gray cape. In last act this garb is thrown off showing
her dressed in a costume to represent a rose.
"Faith, "Truth," Sacrifice." Young girls dressed in white
Grecian costumes, each having a wreath of flowers, representing
the faith, truth and sacrifice of the Pioneers.
Jim Bridger. Trappers' costume.
EPISODE I.
Pageant reader reads prologue:
PROLOGUE
We earnestly pray to thee, our Father dear.
To shed thy Holy Spirit upon those assembled here,
That this night our hearts may be attuned
To that Spirit which prompted the boy Prophet to utter his first
prayer,
This simple prayer, asked in faith believing,
Which has brought to man salvation's plan.
For he came as a herald of truth,
Proclaiming the way of life.
May we in song and in words
Give praise to the man who communed with Jehovah,
And who brought forth the truth in the last dispensation,
And praise those who, staunch and true, by their prophet stood,
Doing all that mortal could.
Wi*^h the call of, "Come, come, ye Saints,
We'll find the place that God for us prepared,"
And with one accord we'll flee to our mountain retreat
Where the Saints will be blessed.
For sacrifices bring forth the blessings of heaven.

Help us, Lord, to realize
The great atoning sacrifice ;
And we ever pray that strength be given us
To do our part and to do your will.
"If any man lack wisdom, let him ask of God, who giveth
to all men liberaly and upbraideth not, and it shall be given him."
Quartette sing, "O how lovely was the morning," while Joseph
Smith is shown in attitude of prayer. (Lights) Curtain.
Out in front of curtain male voices sing, "Praise to the man who
communed with Jehovah."
Story of transfiguration is told. Brigham Young gives revelation
to all the Church. Have all characters on stage at this
time.
Brigham Young gives first revelation to them. (Read Sec.
136 Doc. and Gov.)
Then calling William Clayton to him {Brigham Young) says:
"Brother Glayton, I want you to write a hymn that the people
can sing at their campfires in the evening ; something that will
give them succor and support, and help them to forget their
troubles and trials of their journey."
William Clayton : "Very well. President Young, with the
Spirit and help of the Lord, I will do so."
(All leave the stage except Elder Glayton; he kneels in attitude
of prayer. All lights are out except a flash light thrown
on Elder Glayton while in prayer and while writing the song,
giving idea of "Light of inspiration." He writes about two minutes,
then President Young enters. Elder Glayton gives his song
to him, and while they are pretending to read it, the quartette
sings the four verses of "Come, come, ye Saints." The quartette
is behind the scenes).
Curtain.
One of the pioneer women tells the following story, in the
first person:
The bugle call for courage, "Come, come, ye Saints," was
given as we set out to make that long journey of fifteen hundred
miles over trackless plains, sandy deserts, and rocky mountains.
We knew not where we were going, still the bugle call — "We'll
find the place which God for us prepared, far away in the West."
I wish to relate an incident that happened as we were traveling
on our journey.
(The incident referred to is given on page 60 of the January,
IQ2T, Relief Society Magazine. When she finishes the line
"He had been quite sick," etc., the curtain rises and the "Dying Man" accompanied by Brigham Young and William Clayton, who
support him infers, sits down on a rock by camp fire and sings,
in sweet clear voice the last verse of the song. All pioneers weep,
bi4 do not join with him, as usual. After he sings he rises and
exits. )
Curtain
INTERLUDE II
Pioneer lady finishes story.
EPISODE II
Scene I.
(Desert scene to represent the Salt Lake Valley, before the
pioneers came. Have stage as desolate as possible. Have skins
of animals hanging around, bones, sagebrush, etc., the Spirit of
the Desert stands at right front of stage, in witches attitude, Indians
give dance. Jim Bridger stands at left, back of stage waiting
and watching the dance.)
INTERLUDE III
(Use your own material.)
Scene II.
{Curtain rises, same as scene I, of episode II with stage
empty. President Young and two pioneer men entering, inspecting
everything. All pioneers come in looking around. All have
disappointed, discouraged look.
One lady says: "President Young", I would rather travel an-
>other thousand miles than stay here."
President Young: "No! This is the place. I have seen it
(all before."
Col. Bridger enters, left front of stage and says: "I am Col.
Bridger, I would like to talk to the leaders of the pioneer band."
President Young steps forward: "I am President Young,
the leader of this band of Pioneers."
Col. Bridger: "Mr. Young, I have traveled all over this inter-
mountain country and all over the valley of the Great Salt
Lake, hunting and trapping, and I do not think it would be prudent
for you to continue immigration here until you ascertain
whether grain will grow or not. Why ! I would give a thousand
dollars for the first bushel of grain grown in the Valley of the
Great Salt Lake."
President Young: "We have been led here by the power
and inspiration of our heavenly Father, and I am entirely satisfied with the appearance of this valley as a resting place for the Saints,
and feel amply repaid for this journey." Curtain
INTERLUDE IV
Song — "The Desert shall blossom as the rose." Tune, "Utah,
Queen of the West," composed for this occasion by Mrs. H. L. McMullin.
"Oh, those brave honest hands,
Who have come from many lands,
Truth and loyalty were burning in each breast,
They were led o'er the road,
By the Prophet of God,
To the Rockies, far out in the west.
'Mid those mountains so grand,
In this God-favored land,
They found freedom from all of their foes ;
With their thrift and great care,
And in answer to prayer,
They have made the desert blossom as the rose."
{Have someone read "High on the mountain top," or sing
the hymn. Also, "Utah, my country'' instead of "America, my
country."
EPISODE III
"Desert Shall Blossom as the Rose," .
(Have stage set with a bed of flowers, and as beautiful as
you can make it. Curtain rises with, "Faith, Truth and Sacrifice"
on stage. They give a fairy dance. The music they dance
to was, "The Gospel Message." Spring song, page 132, "Relief
Society Song Book." They exit after dance. "Spirit of the
Desert," centers, walking very slowly, and stooped over. As she
enters trio sings behind scenes Stephens' anthem, "The Desert
shall blossom as the rose." As she gets to front of stage, she
stands erect throwing cape off, and sings ^'The desert shall
blossom as the rose." All characters enter and all sing, audience
also, "Come, come, ye Saints." Brigham Young and Pioneer
man enter stage.)
President Young : "We have been accused of being disloyal
to our country, America, favored above all lands, in so much that
God has called it the promised land. In this valley we will
unfurl the flag that is dear to our hearts, as a sign to the world
that we are loyal to our country and flag." (Flag is unfurled and audience stands and sings, "Star
Spangled Banner.")
Epilogue : In song and in words has the story been told of
the restoration of the gospel in the latter days. How the Lord
chose Joseph Smith to be the instrument in bringing forth the
light through the veil of darkness. We have heard from the
very beginning how the work of the Lord in the last days met
with opposition, and Satan's efforts to prevent the upbuilding of
Zion and the establishment of the Church. Amid all these hard-,
ships and persecutions the Saints showed their true worth by
heroically carrying on the divine work.
To the Rocky Mountains these pioneers fled for refuge and
religious freedom. They desired to worship God according to
the free dictates of their conscience and to live clean, honorable
lives. A finer, nobler type of people couldn't be found than the
"Mormon" pioneers.
The history of the pioneers is full of experience, 'bitter and
sweet, and of glorious achievements and success.
But what of the future? It is full of life and hope. The
destiny of the future is in the hands of this generation. If the
youth of Zion remain faithful, the glory of the future is assured.
Our only means of living true to the faith is through the glorious
ideals and principles with which our parents and grandparents
have endowed us. By taking an active part in the
Church, and fulfiling all duties and responsibilities cheerfully,
and truly living our religion, we may take advantage of every
opportunity that comes our way to spread the gospel both at
home and abroad. May our actions speak louder than words.
Sing "Doxology."
NO RETURNING.
Remember, three things come not back:
The arrow sent upon its track —
It will not swerve, it will not stay
Its speed, it flies to wound or slay;
The spoken word, so soon forgot
By thee, but it has perished not;
In other hearts 'tis living stijl,
And doing work for good or ill;
And the lost opportunity
That cometh back no more to thee ;
In vain thou weepest, in vain dost yearn—
Those three will nevermore return.
From the Arabic.