
WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 34						SALT LAKE CITY UTAH, MAY, 1906						No. 10


CONTENTS.
Gladys (Poem)........................... Lydia D. Alder	65
True Patriotism............ Hattie Critchlow Jensen	66
Sketch of a Heroine........................ Louisa Gray	66
Mothers’ Work.................................. Lou Lewis	66
Thoughts by the Way............................ A. W. C.	67
Mary Gray............................................ Millicent	67
Gone, But Not Forgotten............ Lydia D. Alder	70
In Memoriam......................................................	70
A Tribute of Love...............................................	71
Executive Session, Etc.......................... E. B. W.	71
Relief Society Reports.........................................	67
Editorial:—A Pretty May Day Party....................	68
	Earthquake and Fire.....................................	68
	Elizabeth J. Stevenson.................................	68


GLADYS.
O Gladys, fair with sunny hair,
	And merry eyes of changing blue,
Just as emotions soft are there,
	Or smiling mischief dances through.

How oft I see thee as of yore,
	In happy girlhood’s fleeting hour,
Ere yet love’s myst’ry—wond’rous love—
	Had stirred thy heart by magic power.

So radiant thou before Love’s shrine—
	The world is all ablaze with love—
Joy, tremulous with love is thine,
	As witching as the worlds above.

Ah! then to go is law divine—
	A bride just at the threshold waits;
Thrilled is her heart by thoughts sublime,
	Ere yet she leaves parental gates.

A moment she communes—’tis past—
	Then hand in hand the world they brave;
No thought that shadows long must cast
	Their length upon ONE open grave.

And wifehood brings thee mother love—
	There thou didst tread with willing feet—
And from the realms of joy above,
	An infant makes thy bliss complete.

Years pass away and round thy heart
	Cling buds of promise—precious ties—
Then from them all thou sad must part
	And wend thy way back to the skies.

And Gladys fair with sunny hair
	In bridal robes is laid away.
With sobs of pain, a tender prayer,
	Until the Resurrection day.

Sigh ev’ning winds—O breathe of love!
	Peace whispers where the idol sleeps;
For glorious in the worlds above,
	She dwells for whom the mourner weeps.
					LYDIA D. ALDER,
	A Tribute of Love to Gladys,
		Who was laid to rest
			February 27, 1906.


[Column 1]
		TRUE PATRIOTISM.

	“Lives there the man with soul so dead,
	Who never to himself hath said
	This is my own my native land!”

	Patriotism is one of the distinctive char-
acteristics of the truly great man or wo-
man.

[Column 2]
	Ever since Adam was placed in the
Garden of Eden, and was commanded to
“till and take care of it—to be happy and
enjoy himself”—a love of home and coun-
try has burned more or less brightly in
the hearts of all God’s children, and will
continue to do so until we all “come into
our own.
	History gives us many noble examples
of patriotic men and women, whose deeds
of valor and heroic sacrifice we point to
with pride.
	’Tis a man’s prerogative to fight the bat-
tles of his country. ’Tis a woman’s to
remain at home; perchance to weep but
nevertheless valiantly taking upon her-
self the double responsibility of father
and mother; but because her labor is per-
formed, perforce, far from the scene of
the bloody conflict, is she less patriotic
than he who meets the foe face to face?
No! a thousand times no!
	While her husband, father or brother
is engaged in the struggle for supremacy,
actively pushing by his own endeavors the
outcome to a successful finish,—be it in
the halls of Congress where laws are
made, whereby hang the destiny of na-
tions, or on the field of battle—his heart
can but feebly realize the agonizing sus-
pense of hope deferred, and the uncer-
tainty of meagre detail in time of action,
which is the common lot of the waiting
ones at home.
	Woman’s patriotism is best shown by
her faith, and the outcome of the results
she helped to obtain when she sends her
loved ones from her saying:

	Fight for your country!
		Die if it need be;
	Stand true to your colors
		And God will defend thee!

	If she is gifted with her pen she will
incite to fresh deeds of courage, and build
up the flagging hopes of her countrymen.
	It is a much discussed question, “which
is mighter the pen or the sword,” and the
preponderance of opinion, I think, is in
favor of the former.
	Every nation boasts of its patriots, and
emblazoned upon the pages of its history
there stand the sentiments and expres-
sions of patriotic fervor which make for
its people an ensign from which future
generations may obtain inspiration for
fresh deeds of glory.
	What woman has read the history of
Madame Roland without a feeling of gen-
uine admiration for her patriotism, and the
courage she displayed when she mount-
ed the scaffold for her execution, exclaim-
ing: “Oh liberty, how many crimes are
committed in thy name!”
	Our own country has produced exam-
ples of courage and perseverance, among
women equal to and not exceled by any
other.
	’Tis true that since we became an inde-
pendent nation and liberty and freedom
of the press have been open to all, none
have been required to sacrifice their lives
to establish principles which are theirs by
right of divine inheritance. But, should

[Column 3]
occasion require, we have many Madame
Rolands among our countrywomen.
	Among the Latter-day Saints there is a
strong feeling of patriotism—a love of
country—which animates every breast,
and while we are made up as a people
from almost every nation under heaven,
yet we all unite in singing:

		“My country ’tis of thee
		Sweet land of Liberty
			Of thee I sing.”

	The latter-day Saints when considering
the limitations of their preconceived no-
tions of country, native land, home of
birth, etc., find, with the advent of the
Gospel into their hearts, a more compre-
hensive knowledge of what patriotism
really is, than is generally acceded among
other peoples; namely, that our county
is Zion—“Zion the pure in heart,”—
wherever its boundaries may extend. It
will in time cover the whole earth and ex-
tend into the sanctuaries of heaven; then
we can truly say:

		God is my Father.
			“My country, the world.
		Do good, my religion”—
			My banner’s unfurled.

	Not all patriots, yet, comprehend this
large view of country; but those under-
standing the Gospel of Jesus Christ which
teaches the Fatherhood of God, and the
Brotherhood of man, will be able to do
so. The gifted writers and poets of our
people have made this principle a theme
of many of their most inspired songs.
Pre-eminent among these stands the name
of Sister Eliza R. Snow.
	One cannot read her poem entitled
“Nationality” without being inspired by
strong patriotic fervor coupled with a 
highly developed spiritual sense which
place her at once as one of the most
loyal, faithful and obedient subjects of
the City of Zion, in the Kingdom of
Heaven.
	I will close this article by quoting a few
excerpts from the above mentioned poem:

“One might as well my thoughts exterminate—
My place in pedigree annihilate—
Or the warm pulse of life eradicate—
As to efface or to remove from me
The sentiment of nationality.
It of my nature constitutes a part—
Unites with all the life blood of my heart;
And if no trait or portion of my spirit
’Tis something I eternally inherit.
Not all the charms surrounding scenes impart
Can chase the high-toned feelings from my heart,
For oft—full oft so tenderly they yearn
A kindly impulse prompts a fond return
Unto the land of my nativity—
My native home—my native scenery.
But where—O where the land so choice, so dear?
Which is the nation I so much revere?

I say with Brother Eddington, I am not
Iialian, Hindoo, English, German, Scot.
Neither American, Swiss, Welsh, or Dane,
Nor yet an Islander from ocean’s main.
Nor Spanish, French, Norwegian, nor Swede.
I claim no country, nation, kingdom, creed
Excepting Zion; that I proudly name,
Home of all homes that home I fondly claim.
Were I to boast of nationality.
I’d look beyond this frail mortality.

The Holy Spirit every Saint receives


Is one sense added to what nature gives.
And forms a powerful telescope whereby
We look beyond the stretch of mortal eye
Its keen perception takes a view
Of origin and destination too.
Through this superior spirit sense we learn
What our inferior sense can ne’er discern,
That we’re not natives of this of this fallen earth.
We lived before—we had an earlier birth.
A clime and habitation highly pure
Beyond what these gross senses can endure.
Our hearts beat upwards and our feelings move
In homeward currents up to those we love,
Where uncorrupted nature’s beauties glow
Where life’s pure streams from endless foun-
	tains flow;
And there the sixth—the spirit sense will lead
If to its dictates we give earnest heed;
And its refining process will prepare
Us for a full and free reception there.
And there we’ll talk of nationality
With the celestials of eternity.
		HATTIE CRITCHLOW JENSEN.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	SKETCH OF A HEROINE.
	Away in the quaint little village of Kil-
berry Argyleshire, among the flowery
glens and nooks of bonnie Scotland, on
March 12, 1824, Jane McKinnon Baxter
first beheld the light of day. Her life was
spent in a quiet and uneventful way as
most Scottish lassie’s are. The religious
training she received was the stern, iron
clad doctrines of the parish church and
the old family Bible at home. When
about twenty years of age she found her
way to the City of Greenock, a manu-
facturing center, here she heard for the
first time a true Gospel sermon. Some-
thing that she had been groping for, a
something that sounded in her eager, list-
ening ears like the tinkling bells and
roused her slumbering thoughts to action.
She knew the voice of the true shepherd
and soon became a member of the fold.
Here she met the man of her choice,
Archibald McPhail, and to him she was
united in marriage in the year 1840.
	In 1856 they took a fond farewell of
friends, home and country and accom-
panied by their little daughter Jane, four
years old, they boarded one of those slow
sailing vessels which took them safely
across the briny deep after a long and
tedious sail of nine weeks.
	But the arduous and faith trying jour-
ney lay in sullen grandeur before this un-
suspecting band of Saints, who had left
the comforts of a civilized country to un-
dertake the unparalleled task, with the first
handcart company across the trackless
desert, frequented only by the savage red-
skins. the home of the wild deer and the
roaming buffalo. While struggling through
the many hardships, privations, want, hun-
ger and sickness that visited this heroic
band of pilgrims, her husband took ser-
iously ill, becoming exhausted and unfit
for the unequal task before him. With
that wifely devotion which only our pion-
eer mothers knew, she meekly took her
place by the couch of her dying husband,
comforting him by day, and her vigilant
watch was kept up at night by the faint
glimmer of a tallow candle.
	As she waited in calm sadness envel-
oped in the silence of the night, she im-
plored the God whom she conscientously
served, to help her endure the trying or-
deal, also that the candle would continue
to burn, as it was all she had, until she
witnessed her bosom friend and loved one
close his eyes in death. In that awful
hour of supreme agony her confiding faith

[Column 2]
in Him to lend a listening ear, doubted
not, and the humble petition as it floated
on the wings of the somber night from
the lips of one of the daughters of the
lonely wilderness met the approval of
Him who seeth in secret. And as the
king of terrors struggled with his victim
for victory while the fast ebbing life flick-
ered in the balance, the scanty light also
battled to fill its mission until the heart-
broken scene was closed, Though thrown
into the depth of affliction her integrity
in the work she had espoused never grew
less, never faltered, and her confidence in
God remained unshaken as the mystic
mountains that surrounded her.
	No costly shroud or marble casket en-
cased that noble body as it lay in state
waiting for the dawn of morn to consign
it to mother earth. The many lives that
were laid on the altar of sacrifice for the
sake of truth, during that bitter exodus
with the countless perils and foreboding is
nobler by far than the hero on the field
of battle, fighting and falling for the glory
of his country. 
	You nor I witnessed the falling tears of
our heroine, as she whispered “All is
well,” and took a last look as she turned
away from the lonely mound, resuming
the tedious journey with her little daugh-
ter gazing wistfully in childish wonder-
ment at the tear-bedimmed face of her
mother. In December of the same year
they reached their long looked for destin-
ation, the haven of the refugee.
	The emigrant of today. whirling along
reclining on cushions of velvet, idly
dreaming in luxurious ease, cannot sense
the emotions of our pioneer fathers and
mothers when their weary, bleeding feet
rested on the spot where the modern
Moses was inspired to say, “Enough; this
is the place.”
	Although tattered and torn, with faces
begrimed from long exposure, with thank-
ful hearts they knelt on the grey sage-
brush to return thanks to Him who per-
mitted them to reach the gathering place
of the Saints.
	As the old adage goes, “A friend in
need is a friend indeed,” so this was the
case with our worthy subject. Here she
formed the acquaintance of Robert Bax-
ter, whom she subsequently married and
by whom she had two children, a boy and
a girl, the girl dying when quite young.
Her son, John M. Baxter, is now presi-
dent of the Woodruff Stake of Zion.
	A little over 33 years ago, when the
Bear Lake Stake was settled, our heroine
was among the number who came to sub-
due the elements and battle with frontier
life.
	When the Randolph Relief Society was
organized she was chosen as first coun-
selor to Sarah M. Tyson, which position
she held for twenty-nine years.
	At or about this time the crowning
epoch of her life dawned upon her, and a
new field of labor presented itself.
	Apostle Wilford Woodruff, being moved
upon by inspiration, called and set her
apart to fill the responsible position of
midwife for the community.
	As the science of obstetrics was entire-
ly unknown to her, she was loth to accept
the mission, but her objections faded like
the snowflakes in the river, when the
hands of the beloved Apostle were placed
upon her head, and he pronounced one of
the most wonderful blessings through di-

[Column 3]
vine inspiration that human lips could
utter, to her this blessing was priceless;
in it lay joy and unlimited satisfaction.
From the counsels of the Apostle she
never departed, but cherished them far
beyond all the contributions that science
could produce.
	Hers was no blind obedience, but a
humble acknowledgement of the living
priesthood that was reflected in all her
actions.
	In this blessing was couched the prom-
ise that if she remained firm and faithful
to this calling she would never lose a
case. Those words of inspiration never
lost their effect, her efforts were crowned
with marvelous success. During the
long period of some thirty odd years’
practice she never lost a case.
	In the evening of her well-spent life it
was pleasant to spend an hour with
Grandma, as she took you back through
the hallway of Father Time and related
some of her wonderful experiences.
	When that humble and well-beloved
Apostle, Owen Woodruff, paid his last
visit to our settlement she desired a bless-
ing at his hand, as she felt the ravages of
time fast creeping in upon her, the
thought of lingering and suffering or be-
coming a charge seemed to mar the noble
independent spirit that characterized her
whole life seemed to manifest itself. Her
request was granted and his words verily
came to pass, as did the prophecy of his
venerable father so many years before,
she passed peacefully away in the pres-
ence of her devoted son and daughter.
	She, like many others, has left foot-
prints on the sands of time for you and
me to emulate, for she has gone before to
receive a well earned reward.
					LOUISA GRAY.


MOTHERS’ WORK.
		SAN LUIS STAKE.
	Lecture 1.— Obedience. Reference:
Gen. 6, 7 and 8 ch., Gen. 22 ch.; Ex. 16
ch., 27 to 31 v; Eph. 5 ch., 22, 23 and 33
v., 6 ch., 1, 2 and 3 v.; 1 Nephi, 16 ch.,
9 to 16 v.; 1 Nephi, 17 ch., 7 to 19 v., 18
ch., 1 to 4 v.
	Lecture 2.—Patience. Matt. 27 ch.;
Doc. and Cov., sec. 98, 23 to 26 v., sec.
101, 5 v.; Romans 5 ch., 2 and 3 v. Read
or recite poem, “Send the children to
bed with a kiss.”
	Lecture 3.—Self Denial. Reference:
Matt. 10 ch., 16 to 39 v.; Matt. 26 ch., 53
v.; Doc. and Cov. sec. 103. 27 and 28 v.,
119 ch. on Tithing sec. 72, 15 v.
	Lecture 4.—Domestic Economy. Or-
der and system in the home. Economy
of time and means. Cleanliness and care
of personal appearance.
	Lecture 5.—Evil Effects of Patent Med-
icine. Reference: Era (Editor’s Table),
June, 1902. Appetites for drugs and li-
quor formed by their use, also injury to
health.
	Lecture 6.—Our Home. Unity, love
and reverence in the home. Provide our
children with amusements. Enjoy the
society of your children as time passes.
Extend sympathy in childish troubles.
Reverence for the Sabbath day and the
Priesthood.
	Committee:
			EMMA SMITH,
			LAURETTA PEHRSON,
			MARY F. CROWTHER.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
	THOUGHTS BY THE WAY.
		GROWING YOUNG.

	To, grow young, may be a paradoxical
expression, but it may be a possibility for
all that—not in years, of course, but in
manner and feeling. I know, and you
readers of the EXPONENT know, two beau-
tiful examples of this paradox; perhaps
we know more, but standing boldly before
the women of Zion today, in this respect,
are our two beloved leaders in Woman’s
work, “Aunt Bathsheba” and “Aunt Em.”
Their secret I don’t know, unless it has
always been their wonderful work, al-
ways thinking and planning for the ad-
vancement and care of others, uncom-
plainingly and unselfishly, giving their
time and talent to the betterment and 
building up of womankind, and yet withal
so sweet and womanly, so tender and so
true. 
	We had a party this lovely month of
May, when all nature breathed loveliness
and perfume. when all the hills were
crowned with verdure and bright flowers,
and the orchard trees put on their loveli-
est apparel of pink and white. What
time more fitting for a party? What day
more fair than dear Aunt Bathsheba’s
birthday? and she the fairest of all. Why
not forget sometimes that we are growing
old? In fact at such a time it would be
hard to believe we were. At any rate,
on this day time stood still, and those
who looked and participated in this May-
Day party all were young again, and the
youngest and gayest of us all was she in
whose honor we met, though her years
might number eighty-four. Dressed in
shimmering silk of white, with soft rare
lace, we called her that day Queen, and
we brought her flowers in wreaths and
garlands—beautiful lilies of the valley
and fragrant apple blossoms, and we
crowned her, as in the long ago as chil-
dren we used to play and choose among
our number, some fair, beautiful compan-
ion and make her “Queen of the May.”
We brought her gifts, sang her songs,
told her our love, and read to her heart
poems. And why? “Just because we
loved her so.”
	Oh, how blessed to come so near the
“end of the way” in such serenity of soul
assured of our heart of a perfect well
spent life! Blessed, a thousand times
blessed is she, our beloved leader—our
dear Aunt Bathsheba. 
	Modern grandmothers. When I was a
little girl I used to feel as though a great
injustice had been done me, because I
never had a grandma; and now, as the
years have passed, I don’t know but
what I still think the same; for surely,
the very dearest, sweetest things in all
this world are the grandmothers. Long
years ago we used to picture the grand-
ma like a set piece of furniture in the 
house, sitting ever in the chimney corner,
in an old-fashioned rocking chair, dressed
in a black frock and a large apron, a small,
three-cornered shawl on her shoulders and
a cap on her head, her hands always busy
with flashing knitting needles or darning
the family stockings; at evening telling
the children stories of her own childhood,
or of how children were taught to behave
in her young days; of the dear, quaint
manners of the long ago, with the stately
minuet and the powdered wigs. and the
buckled shoes. Doesn’t it seem strange
that dames of that day should ever settle

[Column 2]
down to be just a household oracle, sit-
ting quietly by, while the younger folks
have all the variety and all the pleasure
of the times?
	But the nineteenth century was the
woman’s century, and mothers of that
day kept pace with the times, and they
became grandmas’ with their advanced
ideas and education. A wonderful trans-
formation took place, so that the twenti-
eth century baby finds its grandma a mar-
velously busy, up-to-date woman, dressed
in the best and latest of apparel, with
hands flashing with jewels instead of knit-
ting needles. She has her clubs and 
her philanthropic work. She sits on 
school boards and civic leagues, and ar-
gues and works for the renovation of
cities and the hygienic and artistic con-
dition of our public schools; and some-
times she, too, at evening, tells us stories
of the long ago in most perfect and de-
lightful phraseology, and she always has
something sweet and good in her pretty
reticule, so she is just as sweet and dear,
and much more interesting, than the
grandma of long ago. What though her
hair be white, it is dressed in the latest
style, with combs and pins becoming,
and the lines in the sweet face may but
mark the care she may have felt for us,
and both give a halo and refinement be-
tokening well spent years.
	All hail the new grandmother! She is
just one symbol of an advanced age.
						A. W. C.


[Column 1]
			MARY GRAY.
Thou art gone to the grave, we no longer behold
	thee,
Nor tread the rough path of the world by thy side.

	Gone from our mortal gaze indeed, but
not to the grave; the bright, beautiful
spirit, freed from the cares of earth and
the fetters of age, has but followed its
loved ones, and there is joy in the home,
“Not builded by hands.” today because of
her.
	Tears and sobs, the heritage of mortal-
ity, fell upon her pillow, and broke upon
the stillness of death, as she passed into
her last long sleep; but smiles and songs
of joy the rapture of delayed reunion,
met her there.
	How many who read the dear familiar
name will remember with full hearts how
the “rough paths” were almost pleasant
places where she led the way. With feet
that never faltered, and a heart whose
deep springs of love and abiding faith
never failed, she stood, even in the days
of her youth, a strength and support to
her widowed mother and family, and won
for herself many lifelong friends among
the strangers with whom their lot was
cast.
	No difficulty could bar her way, no
frown of fortune daunt her brave true
heart; shadows and doubt and dismay fled
from her bright presence as mist before
the morning sun.
	The writer looks back from this far dis-
tant land, down through the dim shad-
ows of years that have come and gone, to
the old home, where “Mary” was to her
childish eyes the embodiment of all that
was beautiful and lovely in life; the pic-
ture is there still, will never fade,
will never grow dim, and above it, Mem-
ory writes the words that the child might

[Column 2]
understand but could not express, “A
creature fresh from the hand of God.”
	That freshness of heart, that vitality,
that purity of mind and purpose, illu-
mined all the years of her life, and shone
from the coffined face whereon “joy of
the departing spirit had left its impress.”
	In her the friendless found a friend;
her heart had room and comfort for the
tempted and distressed; and in the hour
of sorrow, sickness and death how many
hearts have turned to Mary Gray, sure of
sympathy, of help and support, such as
comes only from hearts “wherein the
pure love of God aboundeth.”
	Mary Elizabeth Russell was the eldest
daughter of Isaac and Mary Walton Rus-
sell, and was born in the city of Toronto,
Canada, Feb, 11, 1833.
	After the death of her father, in 1844,
the family settled in the vicinity of Rich-
mond, Missouri, where they remained un-
til the year of 1861; in the spring of that
year commenced the long journey to Salt
Lake City, arriving at that place on the
13th of September.
	Mary E. Russell was married to An-
drew Scott Gray, March 15, 1862; she
was the mother of eight children, four
boys and four girls, of whom five survive
her. They are Andrew, John, Mary W.,
George R. Gray, Jennie I. Tanner and
Lucy R. Davey.
	Mary Gray was a faithful Latter-day
Saint up to the time of her death, and a
true and devoted wife and mother. Her
public duties were in connection with the
Relief Society, of which she was a mem-
ber from the time it was first organized,
and a counselor to President Sarah M.
Kimball; she was re-elected as first coun-
selor to H. A. Badger, which position she
held until the Fifteenth Ward was divid-
ed, in March, 1903, part of the ward being
joined to the Fourteenth and the other to
the Twenty-fourth as it was then.
	Sister Gray passed from this life Nov.
21st, 1905, after a short illness, while vis-
iting relatives and friends in Idaho Falls,
Idaho, her husband, Andrew Scott Gray
having preceded her May 8th, 1899.
					MILLICENT.


IN MEMORIAM.
	Inasmuch as our Heavenly Father in His infinite
wisdom and mercy has seen fit to remove from our
midst by the hand of death, on the 23rd of Febru-
ary, 1906,
	SISTER EMILY ELSMORE LEWIS,
	Be it resolved that we hereby extend our heart-
felt sympathy to the bereaved husband and chil-
dren, and to all who shall miss her loving service
and the refining influence of her noble charac-
ter; and be it further
	Resolved by the officers and missionaries of the
Salt Lake Stake Relief Society, in which corps
Sister Lewis was a faithful and efficient member,
that we cherish her memory as a sacred inherit-
ance and emulate her good example; furthermore
be it
	Resolved that we acknowledge the Father’s will
in our loss and bow to the mandates of an All-wise
Creator who doeth all things well; for
	He who marks the sparrow’s fall
	Is now as ever over all;
	And unto those who do His will
	He brings sweet comfort, “Peace be still.”
	Be it further resolved that a copy of these reso-
lutions be filed on the Stake records of the Salt
Lake Stake Relief Society, and also be published
in the WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
					HATTIE C. JENSEN,
					HARRIET B. HARKER,
								Committee.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT

			Woman’s Exponent.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six month
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.		-		MAY, 1906


[Column 1]
	A PRETTY MAY DAY PARTY.
	A very beautiful day was Wednesday,
the third of May, 1906; the skies were
blue and the balmy air was filled with the
sweet fragrance of lilies, lilacs, and ap-
ple-blossoms. All nature seemed trying
to make the day glorious. It was the
eighty-fourth anniversary of the birthday
of the woman who stands pre-eminent be-
fore all other women in Zion, President
Bathsheba W. Smith, we call her “The
Elect Lady.” The committee of arrange-
ments who had been selected to take
charge of the affair, had made every pre-
paration carefully, Sister Rebecca E.
Little had opened her elegant home for
the happy occasion, and the rooms were
tastefully decorated with sweet flowers.
The guests were in gala spirits, waiting to
do honor to the fair lady whose natal
day they had assembled to celebrate.
	She was elegantly attired in a beautiful
white silk gown, every thread Utah silk,
and the entire fabric manufactured in
Salt Lake City and presented to her by
the ladies of the Board; the elegant lace
trimmings were of the finest quality, and
the scarf the lady wore upon her snow
white hair was the finest of Spanish lace.
Mrs. Smith is a typical Virginian lady,
stately, tall and dignified, graceful in
movement and gracious in manner. The
ladies gathered round her with congratu-
lations and gifts and a few gentlemen
who honored the occasion with their pres-
ence paid her marked attention. President
John R. Winder brought greetings from
the First Presidency to the lady, with
eighty-four pure white carnations, pre-
senting them in his genial way with the
usual compliments and congratulations.
	Sister Carrie S. Thomas took charge
of the program, and called upon the
singers and speakers; after the opening
hymn and a speech from Apostle George
A, Smith about the Smith family. Sister
Emmeline B. Wells made an impromptu
address in behalf of the guests, and read
a Poem written expressly for the birthday
entitled “The Elect Lady,” in which the
guest of honor was crowned with a tiara
of lilies of the valley, a fitting symbol of
her singularly beautiful life, by Mrs.
Annie Wells Cannon. Following this,
the committee, Sisters J. P. M. Farns-
worth, Carrie S. Thomas, Isabel M. Sears
and Rebecca E. Little came forward, and
with a very pretty verse or two, crowned
her again with a wreath of magnificent
pink and white apple-blossoms. The

[Column 2]
Apostle-poet Orson F. Whitney,addressed
the lady in the most eloquent manner,
and in the choicest language, paying
homage to womanhood and especially to
the women of Zion.
	Apostle C. W. Penrose also eulogized
the lady in his own original happy man-
ner, and the affair was really a most en-
joyable event to all present. The menu
was of the choicest variety and daintily
served by the same committee of ladies.
Music and songs helped to enliven the
happy company. Sister Maggie Hull
favored the ladtes with some favorite old-
fashioned Scotch songs, in her peculiarly
expressive style with her rare rich
voice.
	It really seemed a perfect day through-
out without a shadow to mar the pleas-
ure of the guests. In after years those
younger sisters who participated on that
occasion will recall this party as a
momentous affair and remember this
magnificent gathering of beautiful women.
It was indeed a red letter day in woman’s
history.


[Column 1]
EARTHQUAKE AND FIRE.
	People all over the United States have
been terribly exercised and their tender-
est feelings drawn out in heartfelt sym-
pathy and compassion over the panic and
distress, caused by the destructive earth-
quake and devastating fire that followed
it in San Francisco and thereabouts—
along the Pacific Coast, on April 18th
ult., leaving such desolation in its track,
and causing such great loss of human life
and of valuable property, and most of all
terrible pain and suffering almost, and
really in many instances worse than
death itself. How the people who partic-
ipated in this horrible catastrophe en-
dured it and lived is wonderful; surely
the Lord has been merciful to help them
bear it; to us at a distance from the
scenes of horror it has been almost unen-
durable to contemplate. What must it
have been to those who were eye wit-
nesses or were in the immediate vicinity,
even though they escaped uninjured.
	To hear some of these people recount
even a little of the horrors that took
place near them is heartrending, and ac-
tion seems the only alternative; to render
some sort of assistance is a little allevia-
tion. Imagine seeing a great city laid
waste in a day; it is to be hoped the hor-
ror of these terrible sights may fade out
of the memory of those who were there
and could not escape seeing the pathetic,
tragic and often revolting scenes while
the fire was raging.
	To read of these catastrophes in ancient
times was always harrowing to one’s feel-
ings, and to be in the midst of it in the
present day is beyond what one can sense,
who is remote from the actual occurrence.
And yet it has transpired almost at our
own doors as it were, for San Francisco—
the gate of the Pacific ocean—seems so
near to us here that we feel it is at least
our neighbor.
	It has given the people an opportunity
to prove their benevolence, their pity,
their generosity and their genuine love
for humanity. Perhaps they needed this
terrible lesson, for this world has grown
cold and hard, we are told, and money-
getting has become a sort of mania, now
when men see a fortune amassed by years

[Column 2]
of struggling gone in an hour, lost irrevoc-
ably, it is an object lesson to the world,
and it is only men who have the greatest
courage to rise above the most adverse
conditions, that will attempt to retrieve
their fortunes so swiftly swept away.
	These great disturbances of nature are
appalling to the human mind, and as yet
the wisdom of men, with the knowledge
of science of the earth, has failed to ac-
count altogether, or at any rate foretell
when such events may come. Surely
this one came as “a thief in the night.”
	One lesson surely it will teach to “love
our neighbor” to the extent of imparting
of our substance to him in his need. The
hearts of the people have been touched
deeply, sympathetically, and the giving
has been most generous, bountiful even
and wfth good-will, and in the spirit of
love, such love as will eventually prevail
to bring all mankind up to a higher
standard.
	For a time it seemed other daily occu-
pations stood still and waited until the suf-
ferers could be cared for, and sending off
substantial relief was the order of the day
and hour.
	It was expected the report of the Re-
lief Society here would have been ready
by this time, but it is in the hands of a
competent committee who will prepare it
in good time. Several Stakes of Zion
have united in this, and it is really desir-
able to ascertain from all, whether in
Utah or adjoining states and territories.
Even if we do not wish to make it known
now, it is right that it should be made a
matter of record in the history of the
charitable work of this great organiza-
tion.
	The sisters who have been dilatory or
indifferent in regard to saving grain may
realize more the importance attached to 
the storing of grain by the women of 
Zion by this object lesson.


ELIZABETH J. STEVENSON.

“Of all the thoughts of God that are
Borne inward into souls afar,
Along the Psalmist’s music deep
Now tell me if that any is,
For gift or grace surpassing this, 
‘He giveth His beloved sleep.’ ”

	However long we may live we never
seem ready to part with our friends or 
relatives when the time comes for them
to go hence. It is strange that having 
passed through so many of the trying or-
deals we are nevertheless just as ill pre-
pared for the shock when it comes, as 
those younger people who know less of
these changes. We part for a few days
feeling sure we shall meet again, and the 
“dread monster” steps in unawares, as it 
were, and takes the near and dear, and 
we are powerless to avert the seeming
calamity. Then we must summon all our 
courage to go on with our accustomed 
duties. It is the only alternative noth-
ing else ever does so well. There is so
much more to be done now the loved
one has gone, who labored so diligently,
so valiantly; her unfinished work must be
taken up by another, and we must not
wear a sad countenance, for it is pleasing
to the Lord that we should be cheerful,
and so we go about our accustomed duties
and try to become resigned to the lonely
feeling that inevitably follows the loss of


[Column 1]
a dear friend or neighbor, a companion or
associate.
	In the passing away of Sister Elizabeth
J. Stevenson, the sisters in the Salt Lake
Temple, where she was called among the
first to labor, and in the General Relief
Society, realize they have lost one of
their best workers and a true friend.
	She was always willing to do double
duty when it was at all possible; no task
too hard, no burden too heavy, a friend
in need to those in want of assistance,
either temporal or spiritual. A comforter
to those who were cast down or op-
pressed, such a one must be greatly
missed by those who had received from
her kindly and loving ministrations.
“And friends, dear friends, when it shall be,
That this low breath is gone from me,
And round my bier ye come to weep,
Let one, most loving of you all,
Say, ‘Not a tear must o’er her fall!
He giveth His beloved sleep,’”
	It is the opinion of the writer that
could our beloved sister and friend, who
has left us, speak to us now, she would
say, “Do not weep for me but take up
the task I have laid down and be valiant
for the truth of the Gospel of our Lord
and Savior.”
	In some respects the demise of Sister
Stevenson was sadder than when one dies
at home. Going from her home on Mon-
day, April 18, to attend a conference at
Emery, Emery Co., for the Relief Society
(a work she greatly loved) she was taken
sick upon the journey; her illness was so
serious from the first that her traveling
companion, Sister Hattie B. Harker,
telephoned to the family on Saturday
night, and her daughter, Sister Wilcox,
started on the Sunday morning train to go
to her mother’s assistance; hearing by
telephone message on reaching Price (the
end of the railroad) that her mother was
worse, she sent to Salt Lake for her hus-
band, Dr. C. F. Wilcox, to come as soon
as possible. The doctor complied with
his wife’s request, and everything was
done for the sick woman that skill and
remedies could effect. Sister Stevenson
had great faith herself, and she was ad-
ministered to by the brethren of the
priesthood many times, but from the first
it seemed that pneumonia had fastened
upon her vital parts, and prayers and faith
although comforting and soothing, could
not avail, and she breathed her last in
mortality on the morning of Wednesday,
April 25, 1906, her daughter, Sister Wil-
cox, and son-in-law were by the bedside
and Sister Harker, who had been her as-
sociate in visiting Emery Stake, with
others of the sisters, were present to
render any assistance possible. Her last
words were, “I know that my Redeemer
liveth.”
	As soon as possible after the sad event
Elder Ezra Stevenson (Sister Stevenson’s
son in this city) was apprised of the sad
occurrence, and arrangements were made
to bring the body home. From Emery to
Price, sixty miles by team, required time,
and the journey under the circumstances
was mournful indeed. Sister Wilcox was
overwhelmed with grief, also Sister
Harker, who felt for her companion the
most intense sympathy in her great sor-
row.
	The mourners reached Salt Lake at
midnight, Thursday, April 26, and were
met at the depot by members of the fam-

[Column 2]
ily. Sister Stevenson was taken to her
own home in the 18th ward of this city.
The tender sympathy of the many
friends was expressed for the bereaved
ones, by loving words and messages, and
all that it was possible to do was done for
those who had suffered the irreparable
loss.
	The funeral services were held in the
18th ward Chapel, Sunday, April 29, at
12 m. Friends were permitted to call at
the home during the forenoon, and the
house was filled with brethren and sisters
coming and going for hours. Sister Stev-
enson looked lovely in her pure white
Temple clothes, like a beautiful bride
ready to meet her bridegroom.
	The floral offerings were exquisite and
tastefully arranged by loving friends, the
sisters of the Temple, the General Board
of the Relief Society and adjacent stake
associations, the Reapers’ Social and very
many who loved her, sent sweet and
fragrant floral tributes in recognition of
their friendship and sisterly devotion to
the deceased, with whom they had
labored in works of love.
	On the stand at the Chapel were Presi-
dent John R. Winder of the First Presi-
dency of the Church, Elders Rudger
Clawson, C. W. Penrose and O. F.
Whitney of the Apostles, Dr. Seymour
B. Young and J. Golden Kimball of the
Council of Seventy, President Richard
W. Young, Jos. S. Wells and John M.
Knight of the Ensign Stake, High Coun-
cilors and prominent brethren and sisters;
one side of the stand the seats were occu-
pied by the Temple workers, and the
other side the General Board of the Re-
lief Society; the hall was draped in white
and the white casket in front of the stand
was covered with the beautiful floral
emblems of innocence and purity.
	The Chapel was filled with relatives,
friends and acquaintances. The Bishop
of the ward, T. A. Clawson, conducted
the serviees, Professor C. J. Thomas,
with the Temple choir, took charge of
the music, which was very inspiring,
The Temple choir rendered the hymn,
“Do what is right.” Prayer was offered
by Elder J. G. Kimball; choir then sang
“Who are these arrayed in white.” The
first speaker was President Bathsheba W.
Smith, who presides over the sisters in
the Salt Lake Temple and is also the
General President of the Relief Society
of the Church in all the world. She paid
an affectionate tribute to the memory of
Sister Stevenson with whom she had been
so closely associated for many years.
President S. B. Young, the next speaker,
alluded particularly to Elder Edward
Stevenson, who had been a member of
the Council of Seventy and spoke of the
joyous meeting of this good woman with
her husband “beyond the veil.” Sister
Hattie B. Harker spoke of the severe ill-
ness and demise of Sister Stevenson, giv-
ing some of the details of the sad event.
Sister Ruth M. Fox followed, she had
known Sister Stevenson from her child-
hood, and alluded particularly to her
motherly qualities in a very sweet and
touching way.
	Brother Charles Pike rendered divinely
the grand old hymn, “I know that my
Redeemer lives.”
	Bishop George H. Taylor of the 14th
ward, where Sister Stevenson had lived
for many years, addressed the congrega-
tion briefly, making many eulogistic com-

[Column 3]
ments on her life. President Martha H
Tingey of the Y. L M. I. A. spoke elo-
quently for a few minutes; she also had
always known Sister Stevenson. Elder
Orson F. Whitney then addressed the
congregation, speaking with great force
and power, paying a glowing tribute to
women, and especially mentioning the Re-
lief Society as the first great organization
of women founded anywhere in the
world, and by the Prophet Joseph him-
self; he then referred to the spread of
woman’s work and influence in the world
since that time. Sister Emmeline B.
Wells followed this eloquent discourse
and President John R. Winder spoke a
few minutes of the many noble qualities
and virtues of Sister Stevenson and em-
phasized her diligent service in the Tem-
ple. The choir sang “Shall we meet be-
yond the river.” Bishop George Romney
pronounced the benediction. The ser-
vices were very impressive and the Holy
Spirit seemed to pervade the house and
fill the hearts of all present, singers,
speakers and hearers. One could not
help feeling the divine influence, and
could Sister Stevenson have looked in
and heard and taken note of all, she
must have been gratified with the respect
and love manifest in all that was said and
done throughout the entire ceremonies.
	The journey is o’er, the fight is fought
		She has reached the home of her love,
	And the smile on her beautiful face is caught,
		From the land of smiles above.
	“After the burden and heat of the day,
		The starry calm of night,
	After the rough and toilsome way,
		A sleep in the robe of white.”
		BIOGRAPHICAL.
	Sister Elizabeth Jane Stevenson was
born February 8, 1838, in Parish, St.
Aubens, Jersey, Channel Isles. Her par-
ents were Phillip and Mary Remon Du
Fresne. At the early age of twelve years
she was baptized into the Church of
Latter-day Saints by the late President
John Taylor; the home of her parents
was headquarters for “Mormon” mission-
aries until the family came to Utah in
1854. They crossed the Atlantic in a
sailing vessel and were six weeks upon
the ocean, landed in New Orleans and
crossed the plains with ox-teams the same
year, experiencing the many hardships
and privations of those early pilgrimages.
The journey to the valley was sadly mem-
orable on account of cholera, from which
fatal disease two of the sisters of Sister
Stevenson died and were buried by the
wayside.
	The year following, on November 28,
1805, Elizabeth Jane Du Fresne was
united in marriage to Elder Ezra Steven-
son, a man who spent most of his life in
the mission field Seven children were
born to them, of whom only two are now
living, Elizabeth S. Wilcox and Ezra T.
Stevenson. There are quite a number of
grandchildren to mourn her loss, for she
was particularly dear to them.
	Sister Stevenson was affectionately
cherished in the boson of her own family;
she was very loving and generous in her
nature. and not only to her own, but to
her large circle of friends whom she de-
lighted to entertain in the most hospitable
fashion. Her home was always a resting
place for those who needed a temporary
haven, and she made the Saints gladly


welcome with her affable manner, and 
kindly spirit.
	In the Relief Society of the 14th ward
she began her benevolent work as a
teacher, and for fifteen years visited reg-
ularly, then she filled the position of
Counselor to the President until her re-
moval to the 18th ward. Early in the
missionary work among the stakes of
Zion, Sister Stevenson began to visit
among the sisters with Sister Zina D. H.
Young, the President, and others; she has
traveled and attended sisters’ conferences 
in almost every stake of Zion and many
of the wards and missions, her labors have
been untiring in this department of Re-
lief Society work, and there is abundant
proof that her work has been appreci-
ated. When the Relief Society was in-
corporated in October, 1892, she was one
of the incorporaters and was present at
that important meeting and acted as 
secretary pro tem, was sometime after-
wards made a member of the Board of 
Directors. President M. Isabella Horne
chose her as one of her Counselors to fill
a vacancy caused by the death of Sister
Phebe W. Woodruff in the General Re-
trenchment Association, that always met
semi-monthly in the 14th ward, while 
Sister Horne was living; Sister Stevenson
often presided in the absence of the Pres-
ident. Sister Stevenson was a charter
member of the Reapers’ Club organized
in October, 1892, and was its Treasurer for
many years and at the time of her de-
cease. In all the various places she filled 
she was trustworthy, and interested, she
was punctual and strict in the performance
of duty, never known to shirk any task
however hard, or difficult. She was 
spiritual minded in a high degree and her 
religion was always first in every place; a
woman of sterling integrity to the Gospel
and willing to make any sacrifice, in
obedience to divine law or principle.
	Sister Stevenson will be remembered
for good works by the Saints here and
elsewhere, she visited her native home in 
1885-6, and traveled through parts of
England with her husband attending
meetings and speaking to many audiences
large and small on Gospel subjects, her
faith was always her theme on all occa-
sions public or private.
	She has left us now and surely her re-
ward will be eternal life in the mansions
of glory. She will be generally missed,
perhaps most of all among the sick and
afflicted. It may well be said of her
“She stretcheth out her hand to the poor,
yea, she reacheth forth her hands to the 
needy.”
	“The loved and lost, why do we call them lost,
	Beccause we miss them from our onward
		road?
	God’s unseen angel o’er our pathway crossed,
		Looked on us all, and loving her the most,
	Straightaway relieved her from life’s weary load,”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
	GONE BUT NOT FORGOTTEN.
“WHOM THE GODS LOVE DIE YOUNG.”

	The festive scene, the light, the gay,
		The tales of old forgotten long;
	The glimm’ring light that fades away,
		The notes that wail some dead love song.

	It’s the way of life that happiest moments flee
away, songs and laughter die upon the air, and
desolation falls upon the fairest scenes. Music
throbs out its life and life itself vanishes away.
	Such thoughts as these fill the mind when one
who is dear is suddenly called to another life. The

[Column 2]
last time we met rises vividly before us. Did we
part in kindness? Did we lovingly say “good
bye?”
	There is no regret when we think of Gladys and
her beautiful life. Gladys, who sleeps far away
from her childhood home.
	Gladys was the second child of Joseph and
Emily Hill Woodmansee, and was born in Salt
Lake City, March 13, 1865, and died February 26,
1906, in Juarez, Mexico.
	Her loving sister Evelyn ministered by her bed
side, and soothed her in her hours of pain. Her
heart yearned over her little ones, and wistfully
her eyes rested upon them, until they were closed
by the chill of death. For them she desired and
strove to live. Often she spoke of the fragile, little
mother far away and the precious ones whom she
would see no more in life.
	Gladys was of a bright, cheerful disposition, a
companion to and a lover of her mother. Kind
and true and even as a child. she was never known
to shirk a duty. She was affable and loving to a 
fault, always the same, light-hearted and happy.
These characteristics endeared her to family and
friends.
	The ties of motherhood unfolded her beautiful
nature, like the rose that expands beneath the
sun’s warm rays.
	A loving, conscientious wife, a tender mother, a
firm friend. this and more can be said of her
	To her faith her heart was loyal and true; to la-
bor for it, her delight.
	She held several positions of trust, even in her
girlhood days, in the organizations of the Twen-
tieth Ward, her home ward, where she is lovingly
remembered.
	She was of a literary turn of mind, and did
some fine work while with us in the Utah Wo-
man’s Press Club. It is with regret that we part
with such an active, brilliant member.
	Her funeral, which occurred February 27, was
an occasion of sadness. Though the leading
brethren said so many beautiful things of her,
though all were loth to part with one so estimable,
faithful and diligent, and the home made desolate
because of her absence was spoken of, yet all 
hearts turned to the mother, whose health would
not permit that she should learn of her death until
long after she was laid in the tomb
	Amid silent tears of sorrow the following poem,
composed by that mother, to comfort some other
heart in distress, was read from the stand, then
sung by request:

	Resting now from care and sorrow,
		Resting from fatigue and pain;
	Faithfully she fought life’s battle,
		Death to such is endless gain.
	Gad hath gathered home her spirit,
		God hath taken what He gave;
	Friend and sister, sweetly slumber
		In the quiet, peaceful grave.

	All her warfare is accomplished,
		Bid her now a fond adieu;
	Brief the parting, glad the meeting
		That shall nearest ties renew.
	True and tender, self denying,
		One of Truths disciples brave—
	Let her sleep, she needs to slumber,
		In the quiet, peaceful grave.

	Shall we mourn for one who’s left us?
		Yes, our tears we needs must blend;
	Love’s own off’ring this we owe thee.
		Faithful mother, faithful friend.
	While we look for consolation
		Unto Him, “the strong to save,”
	Friend and sister, sweetly slumber
		In the quiet, peaceful grave.

	It was so appropriate, and seemed like her
mother’s voice blending with the words that had
been uttered.
	Gladys is not dead, but liveth unto life eternal.
With one of old we can exclaim “Surely good-
ness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my
life: I will dwell in the house of the Lord for-
ever.”				LYDIA D. ALDER.


[Column 1]
			IN MEMORIAM.
			HARRIET WILSON.
	My mother Sister Harriet Wilson, died March
23rd, 1906, aged 92 years. She was born July 7th
1813, at Fendon in Derbyshire, England. Em-
braced the gospel in the year 1847. Emigrated to
Utah in September 1871, residing in Salt Lake
City, keeping a store until 1878, when she came
to Sandy and lived here until her death.
	Soon after coming to Sandy she was chosen

[Column 2]
first counselor to Sister Wilhelmina Olsen and
for a number of years she filled that position until
about 7 years ago when she was honorably re-
leased on account of her extreme age. She was
a very energetic worker never tiring in her
labors.
	Her nature was angelic and especially to the
poor and afflicted and those that were cast down;
her religion was to her the dearest thing of her
life; she retained her bright and noble mind to
her death, declaring a few moments before she
died that she never had a doubt, but knew the
Prophet Joseph Smith was sent of the Lord; her
memory was remarkable, also her eyesight, never
using spectacles; she was one of the most remark—
able of women; filled up her long life and won to
herself a crown that is promised to the faithful.
	In England she used to distribute tracts and
made some converts that have gathered here that
looked upon her with great reverence. She enter-
tained many times at her home President Joseph
F. Smith and many prominent leaders of the
Church, also many missionaries. They loved to
be in her company acknowledging she was of ster-
ling worth. She died as she had lived a faithful
Latter-day Saint, and her light will shine before
her children both in thime and eternity. God grant
her children may live as she has lived.
	A large concourse of people attended her
funeral which was held in the ward meetinghouse.
Brother Joseph E. Taylor of Salt Lake City,
preached her funeral sermon; also Bro. Walter
Williams who was well acquainted with her from
hoyhood giving glowing tributes to her life work.
Miss Judith Anderson of Salt Lake City sang
beautifully two numbers; the floral tributes were
grand.
				SARAH E. HARRISON.

		ELIZABETH BROOK FOX.
	Died at Franklin, Oneida County, Idaho, Mon-
day, April 9, 1906, of general debility and heart
failure, Sister Elizabeth Fox. Sister Fox was
baptized at Leeds in 1851, and finally with a deter-
mination to remain true to the testimony which she
had received, she sanctioned home and friends for
the gospel’s sake and came to this country, arriv-
ing in Salt Lake in September, 1861, Elder Milo
Andrus beign president of the company.
	After remaining at the home of Elder Phineas
Young for two weeks she went to Lehi, where she
married Charles E. Fox in February, 1862.
	In 1863 Brother and Sister Fox came to Frank-
lin. Both were members of the Franklin Ward
choir for a number of years.
	Sister Fox acted as a teacher in the Franklin
Relief Society for several years, afterwards be-
coming its president, which positon she filled for
eight years. On April 19, 1881, she was appoint-
ed president of the Relief Society of the Oneida
Stake, presiding with marked success for more
than sixteen years Her genial disposition won
for her the love of all with whom she was associ-
ated, which amounted almost to devotion.
	Besides a son and daughter, Mr. Joseph B.
Scarborough, of Franklin, and Mrs Annie Hatch,
wife of Bishop L. L. Hatch, of Franklin, Sister
Fox is survived by twenty grandchildren and 13
great-grandchildren.
			RESOLUTIONS.
	Whereas the Eternal Father, in His infinite wis-
dom has called our beloved sister, Elizabeth Fox,
from our midst; and
	Whereas Sister Fox has been closely connected
with the Relief Society of the Oneida Stake for a
number of years, and having been a teacher in the
Franklin Ward for seven years, also president of
that organization for about eight years, and later
Stake president for more than sixteen years.
	We, the stake officers, representing all the
branches of the Relief Society of the Oneida Stake;
desire to express our great appreciation of her in-
tegrity, and wish to extend our deepest sympathy
to the members of her family in their sad bereave-
ment.
	Therefore be it resolved that we tender our
sympathy to her son and daughter and their fami-
lies; be it further
	Resolved that these resolutions be recorded in
the records of the Relief Society of this Stake, and
that a copy be presented to the bereaved family
and also to the Deseret News and WOMAN’S EXPO-
NENT for p[-]blication.
					LOUISA B BENSON,
									President.
					HANNAH B. MICKLESON,
					LUCY B. PARKINSON,
									Counselors.
					PHEBE A. M. MCNEIL,
									Secrearty.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	At a meeting of the Relief Society of the Lynne
Ward, held March 29, 1906, the following resolu-
tions were unanimously adopted:
	Whereas our Heavenly and All-wise Father has
in his wisdom seen fit to remove from our midst
within the last year our beloved sisters, Mary E.
Hutchins, first counselor, Ellen Salisbury, teacher,
and Sarah Y. Thomas, secretary, who were noble,
righteous women and ever willing to assist in every
good cause; and
	Whereas their deeds of self-sacrifice and good
works will be greatly missed by all, therefore be it
	Resolved that in their death the Relief Society
of the Lynne Ward lose some of their most valiant
workers and dearest friends; and be it further
	Resolved, that we tender our heartfelt sympathy
to their loved ones in this hour of bereavement
and affliction, and that their memories be revered
as everything that is ennobling and uplifting, and
be a bright star for their loved ones to follow; and
also be it
	Resolved that the above resolutions be spread
on the minutes of the Relief Society and be pub-
lished in the WOMAN’S EXPONENT and also a copy
to be sent to the family of the deceased.
				HANNAH OHLSEN,
				ANNA R. SHAW,
				ANNIE E. BOLANDER,
							Committee.


A TRIBUTE OF LOVE.
	Dear Editor:—As officers of the Relief 
Society of Utah Stake, we desire to ex-
press our appreciation of the great work
accomplished by our departed president,
Sister Mary John.
	For 21 years she presided over the Re-
lief Society of Utah Stake, which
before the division was one of the
largest in Zion, numbering 37 branches;
she was also for many years previous to
being president, secretary of the Relief
Society of the Third Ward of this city.
	The amount of work and prayerful
thought required to successfully superin-
tend so many branches is comprehended
only by those who understand fully the
Relief Society work.
	Those who sought counsel from Sister
John were enlightened and satisfied; for
she was humble and pure before God—
such a one as He uses for His Spirit to
flow through continually.
	Those called to mourn, the needy and
the cast down, were warmed, comforted
and cheered, for in her presence melan-
choly must flee as darkness disappears in
the presence of the sun.
	Having truth as her guide, and the
Spirit of God as her companion, all the
petty trials, sorrows and sufferings of life
faded away like temporary visions seen in
a dream.
	Since the All-wise Father has released
Sister John from her mission among us,
may we remember always her sweet
smile (an index to her soul) which never
failed to greet those with whom she came
in contact. And as the flowers and the
grain continue to grow through the night
from the warmth of the sun through the
day, so may the radiance of Sister John’s
faithful life continue to warm and pro-
mote the work she leaves behind.
	Provo, March 21, 1906.
			MARTHA F. KEELER,
							President.
			EMILY A. HOLBROOK,
			INEZ KNIGHT ALLEN,
							Counselors.
			MARY E. ASHWORTH,
							Cor. Secretary.


[Column 1]
	EXECUTIVE SESSION, NATIONAL
		COUNCIL OF WOMEN,
			TOLEDO, OHIO.
SECRETARY’S REPORT OF THE NATIONAL
WOMAN’S RELIEF SOCIETY, PRESENTED
BY REBECCA E. LITTLE, DELEGATE.
Madame President, Officers and Members
	of the National Council of Women
	of the United States.
	DEAR FRIENDS: A report from the Na-
tional Woman’s Relief Society was for-
warded in February of 1905 to the Trien-
nial at Washington, D. C. and the time
seems so short since then that there ap-
pears little to tell of things accomplished.
We can assure you, however, of the deep
interest we feel in the Council work, and
of our sympathy with individual workers
who are striving for the good of all, and
for the advancement of truth and right-
eousness.
	We know there is a vast army of wo-
men who are engaged in various depart-
ments of earnest endeavor to make better
the lives of those whose lines have not
been cast in pleasant places; and to these
grand women, we would extend the hand
of fellowship and wish them God speed
in every noble enterprise undertaken for
humanity.
	In looking back over the past year, al-
though we have kept up regular duties,
perhaps we ought not to regret that great
things we had desired have not been
brought about; for it is the little beautiful
acts of kindness, mercy and benevolence
that are after all, most helpful and uplift-
ing to the human soul, and in these small
things that do not count much upon paper,
our women do an infinite amount of good.
They minister in loving tenderness to the
sick and aged, who have not near and
dear ones by them, and when death comes
to the relief of suffering humanity, it is
the privilege of many to close the eyes
that can no longer see and clothe the body
in raiment suitable for burial; these are
the blessed opportunities of members of
our Society. No one can perform these
sacred duties without realizing the spirit
of that true charity spoken of by Paul the
Apostle, the “charity that never faileth,”
that blesses the giver ten fold in return.
Such labors refine and discipline the char-
acter and life of those who perform these 
ministrations in the spirit of true benevo-
lence.
	The ladies of the Council are many of
them somewhat acquainted with our
methods of work. We aim for the highest
and best in our undertakings, though we
often fall short of the standard we have
in mind.
	From our headquarters we send out to
the various organizations under the super-
vision of our General Board, not only let-
ters of instruction from our President, but
mlssionary sisters in pairs, to visit Con-
ferences in the several localities as care-
fully arranged beforehand. These sisters
not only speak publicly upon matters par-
taining to our work, but give advice to
those at a distance and assist in organiz-
ing new branches or in filling vacancies.
Often these trips are made where there
are no railroads and through mountainous
countries. This is really an important
part of our work, and very helpful to those
in remote places. For in these far off
districts away from busy towns, the work

[Column 2]
of caring for the sick and needy, the aged
and infirm is quite as necessary as in larger
places, and in many instances the needs
are greater because the facilities are not
at hand, or the skilled help to be obtained.
	We can truthfully say great good to
many thousands has been done by our
women through this organization, and we
are fully prepared to verify this assertion.
The classes of nurses that graduate each
year, is one of the most efficient ways of
helpfulness; and we are gratified with the
results of our Relief Society nurse classes
as a whole. Imagine what relief these
nurses carry into the homes where their
services are required, the very expression
and appearance of a trained nurse, who
loves her work, brings into a household
an atmosphere of repose and is a healing
balm to the sufferer. I think it has al-
ready been explained in a former report,
that the nurses trained under the auspices
of the Relief Society give a certain por-
tion of time to charity nursing; and this
gives to them an experience such as no
trained nurse who only attends where
families are able to pay can ever get, and
is more valuable as a life lesson, than
dollars and cents. These eharity nurses
going as they do into the homes of the
meek and lowly are, as it were, angels of
mercy in many instances, diffusing sun-
shine and radiance where darkness and
gloom had prevailed. Nursing is indeed
an elevating profession.
	Some years ago we introduced as a part
of our educational course what we term
mothers’ work into our Society; in a cer-
tain sense the training of young women
for motherhood had always been encour-
aged and much timely advice and instruc-
tion given in a general way, but we have
adopted of late years a more regular
method by having outlines prepared and
lectures in each ward Society on such sub-
jects as relate direct to the preparations
for motherhood and the rearing of chil-
dren. The good results have been appar-
ent in awakening dormant ideas and fac-
ulties, and inducing women who had latent
talent to use it for their own development
and to be helpful to others, their associ-
ates, their neighbors and friends, and for
the public good.
	The Relief Society has also much prac-
tical work to do, and calls into exercise
the executive ability of its members in 
accumulating means, and in handling, and
husbanding it resources. During this past
year many more buildings have been
erected in various wards and settlements
for Society purposes, and considerable
grain has been stored, and more granaries
have been built. This enterprise of stor-
ing grain is peculiar to the women of this
Society. Nowhere else in the world have
we ever heard of the women of any peo-
ple, or any Society, laying up grain against
a time of need, except in our organiza-
tions.
	It has been an interesting thing and a
labor that required some skill to manage.
There have been some losses, but in the
main the work has been successful. The
Jubilee year of the Church, of which the
Relief Society sisters are members, don-
ated two-thirds of the grain that had been
stored for the three years since the work
had been inaugurated for seed to the far-
mers, this was their offering to the poor,
and in some rare instances since in con-
sequence of losses in the wheat crop it
has been loaned out to good advantage,


[Column 1]
but never for speculation, and it is never
sold for money except when it is necess-
ary to dispose of old wheat and purchase
new. Many even of the small wards own
granaries that are filled with good wheat.
The women who serve in the Relief So-
ciety devote freely time and talents to the
amelioration of mankind, without expec-
tation of reward, save the reward of a
clear “conscience void of offence toward
God and all men.” It is a labor of love,
the consecration of all that they have and
are on the altar of their faith, to promote
good in the world, to make life happy for
their own, to build up genuine homes,
where peace and unity abide.
	Meantime, we believe in cultivating all
the graces of mind and body and in prom-
oting the highest in art, literature and
science, that the future of the generations
now living, and of those which are to
come, may be nearer perfection in attain-
ment than that of any race that has ever
inhabited this earth. That the earth it-
self may be cultivated, its waste places
made habitable and beautiful by the hands
of industry and the blessing of the Lord,
that the Western continent from North
to South and from East to West, and the
whole of this goodly land of America, may
be as free and desireable to dwell in as our
own glorious United States.
	In this good work women as well as
men, have been and are engaged and
none more so than our honored and be-
loved President of this Society, Mrs.
Bathsheba W. Smith, who has from her
early life been a woman of thrift and
enterprise, as well as economy. She is
therefore eminently qualified to stand at
the head and direct the efforts of these
hosts of workers, because she has passed
through the varied experiences of a long
and useful, as well as successful life. She
is in appearance a queenly woman, though
now nearing her 84th year, with all her
faculties in excellent preservation, and
her cheerful countenance and dignity of
manner betoken the innocence and purity
of the soul within.	
	We also wish to mention with tender-
ness in this report, the great loss to our
Society in the demise of one of our most
honored and revered sisters, the Treas-
urer of the General Society for 21 years,
Mrs. M. Isabella Horne, well known for-
merly to many of the leading women of
the Council, having been a delegate from
our Society in the Congress of Represent-
ative Women at the Columbian Expo-
sition in Chicago in 1893, and also par-
ticipating in its social entertainments.
Her address in the Art Palace attracted
much attention, when she related the
story of crossing the plains in 1847, and
the many peculiar circumstances of her
pioneer journeyings and experience.
	We desire to unite with the National
Council of Women in any Memorial Trib-
ute they may make to the memory of our
dearly beloved leader and General, Miss
Susan B. Anthony; and to express our
heartfelt love and veneration for her grand
and noble efforts for women everywhere

[Column 2]
throughout the world. We rejoice that
she lived so long and accomplished so
much for humanity; and we realize that
all our lives and the lives of all women
have been elevated to a higher standard
of excellence through her heroic exertions
and enterprise in behalf of her sex; and
we feel assured that the work she loved
so dearly and to which she consecrated
her life and talents will not slacken, but
that those whom she stimulated to these
high and holy purposes will strive to carry
it forward to its ultimate victory and tri-
umph.
	With greetings from the President and
officers of the National Woman’s Relief
Society.
		Respectfully submitted,
			EMMELINE B. WELLS,
		General Secretary N. W. R. S.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.

		SAN JUAN STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of the San Juan stake was held 
at Bluff, April 28, 1906, Stake President
Mary N. Jones presiding. Most of the
wards had a representative present; all
gave encouraging reports and spoke of
their desires to keep up with the other
associations. A great many acts of char-
ity have been performed by the sisters
during the past winter, as our stake has
been visited with a great deal of sickness,
and some deaths. All have shown their
willingness to care for those in need and
distress. Each of the associations expect
to do all in their power during the coming
summer to lay aside means to purchase
grain in the fall.
	The stake presidency were present and
gave very timely advice to the sisters,
encouraged them to keep the spirit of
their work, and God would bless them in
their desires for good. Sister Priscilla
Warner, fiirst counselor to Stake Presi-
dent Mary N. Jones, was honorably re-
leased with a vote of thanks for her faith-
ful labors, as she had moved from the
stake.
	Sister Lucinda Redd was also released
from her position of stake secretary for
the same reason. Sisters Annie M. Deck-
er and Beatrice Nielson were chosen to
fill the vacancies.
	We hope to continue in the work of
the Lord, and look for success in our la-
bors as long as we are faithful.
		MARY N. JONES, President.


UINTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of the 38th Relief Society Con-
ference of Uintah Stake of Zion. held at
Vernal, Feb. 21, 1906, at 10 a.m., Presi-
dent Sarah M. Colton presiding.
	After the usual exercises President Col-
ton made opening remarks. She felt that


with a little energy there could be a little
better attendance; she reported the stake
with the exception of Jensen.
	Sister Annie K. Bartlett reported Jen-
sen Relief Society; both president and 
her counselors reported the stake in good
condition.
	After the stake reports an essay was
given from Naples Society by Adell Hunt-
ing; select music on the organ by Abbie
Henry from Vernal Relief Society.
	Reports from the presidents of the dif-
ferent branches as follows: Mountain Dell,
Prest. Mary J. Searle; Jensen, Prest.
America Orser; Naples, Prest. Annie Cas-
per, followed by Nancy A. Colton (one of
the stake board) upon knowledge and
courage, practically temperance. Sister
Mary O’Neill made a great many com-
ments on the lecture.
	Sister Sarah Pope, former stake presi-
dent of the organization, said while look-
ing over the congregation she felt to
thank the Lord, for, said she, all looked as
though they had plenty to eat and wear;
spoke of the early settlers in the state
and the hardships they had to pass
through, of the Relief Society and its
organization; she also spoke upon the
Word of Wisdom and its benefits.
	Counselor Agnes Bennion spoke of the
sisters trying to find employment for their
children and upon education and the
books we should read; she read an article
entitled “Questions of Amusements.”
	Bro. Alonzo Hawes said that he could
testify that the Spirit of God was here; he
spoke of the good counsel that might be
given to the boys and girls; spoke of the
good work the sisters of the Relief Soci-
ety were doing.
	Sister Phebe Hislop, president of Mae-
ser Society, reported that society in good
condition; she also related some of the
effects of card playing; she had never had
a card in her house nor seen any in her
father’s house.
	Singing and benediction. Conference
adjourned until 2 p. m.
	Afternoon session we continued our
services by the choir singing then prayer
and singing, minutes, etc. General and
local officers were sustained, statistical
report read and accepted.
	Reports from the different wards. Pres-
ident Hannah Odekirk, Vernal; Prest.
Mary J. Hardy, Glines; each in good con-
dition. 
	Sister Althura Collett called unexpect-
edly to speak, but her motto was to re-
spond to the call from those placed
over her; spoke of prayer and home mis-
sionaries.
		(To be continued.)


[Column 1]
				R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
			67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE, and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you
	as much as possible for your money.				TRY US

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 41,191 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minor,
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to five thousand, and compute said
	interest Semi-annually.
WRITE for any information desired.
			JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
	No. 1 East Temple Street.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

