[WomansExponent | Vol19 | 1890 | September | Issue: 7 | Title: INTERESTING ITEMS. | Author: S. G. R]

INTERESTING ITEMS.
	It was some time before we went on our journey
to England. Our cottage was near the office where
the President had business attended to; (the
date I cannot now remember) but I think it can
be found if necessary.—Brother Brigham was
said to be sick, after a day or two he was better,
and around.—Then a paper was sent to me to
read, and copy what I felt might interest me.
The slight indispostion of the President was the
effect of a Vision. I only copied a little piece
that might be with me all the time—and this was
the case the more than five years I was away.
	This same little memento, old but still whole, I
now copy for the help of others. It reads as fol-
lows:
	“Joseph stepped towards me and looked very
earnestly yet pleasantly. But before this, I asked
him what I should say to the people from him,
this was the answer:” “Tell the people to be
humble and faithful, and be sure to keep the
spirit of the Lord, and it will lead them right.
Be careful and not turn away the still small voice;
it will teach you how to do, where to go, it will
yield the fruits of the Kingdom—Tell the brethren
to keep their hearts open to conviction, so
that when the Holy Ghost comes to them, their
hearts will be ready to receive it. They can tell
the spirit of the Lord from all other spirits, it will
whisper peace and joy to their hearts and souls;
it will take malice, hatred, strife, and all evil from
their hearts and their whole desire will be to do
good, bring forth righteousness, and build up the
Kingdom of God. Tell the brethren if they will
do this, follow the spirit of the Lord, they will
go right. Be sure to tell the people to keep the
spirit of the Lord; and if they will, they will find
themselves just as they were organized by our
Father in Heaven before they came into the
world. Our Father in Heaven organized the
human family but they are all disorganized and in
great confusion.” “Joseph then showed me the
pattern how they were in the beginning this I
cannot describe, but I saw it and saw where the
Priesthood had been taken from the earth; and
how it must be joined so there will be a perfect
chain from Father Adam to his latest posterity.
Tell the people to be sure to keep the spirit of the
Lord and follow it and it will lead them just right."
	The whole was very interesting, but this was all
I cared to take from the manuscript.
								S. G. R.


[Column 1]
