[Vol43 | December 1956 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: Annual | Author: Pickering]
Annual General Relief Society Conference—1I 956 Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer HE annual general Relief Society conference was held in Salt Lake City, Wednesday and Thursday, October 3 and 4. There were 232 of the 233 stakes and twenty-one of the forty-five missions represented. In recognition of the active part which the missions of the Church took in support of the erection of 'The Relief Society Building, Relief Society mission presidents in North America and Central America were invited by the First Presidency to attend this conference, the highlight of which was the Dedicatory Service of 'The Relief Society Building. 'The Dedicatory Service replaced the usual general session of the conference. At the Officers Meeting, Wednesday morning in the 'Tabernacle, President Spafford gave her Report and Official Instructions, and the sustaining of general board members and the roll call were conducted by Secretary-I'reasurer Margaret C. Pickering. Counselor Velma N. Simonsen gave an inspirational talk introducing the dramatic program, "Portrait of a Dream." 'This impressive dramatization written by Alberta H. Christensen, using slides, portrayed incidents leading up to and including the erection of the new building, and served as a prelude to the Dedicatory Service. A song, "Lord, We Dedicate This House to Thee," composed specially for this occasion, words by Sister Page 812 Christensen and music by Florence J. Madsen, was sung by a special Singing Mothers chorus from the Provo stakes and vicinity. The Dedicatory Service, Wednesday afternoon, to which the public was invited, was held in the Tabernacle and televised to the Assembly Hall and Barratt Hall. President David O. McKay presided and President Belle S. Spafford conducted the meeting. Most of the General Authorities were present. The Singing Mothers from Bear River, Ben Lomond, East Ogden, Farr West, Lake View, Lorin Farr, Malad, Mount Ogden, North Box Elder, North Weber, Ogden, Riverdale, South Bear River, South Box Elder, South Ogden, Summit, Weber, and South Carolina Stakes made up the chorus. 'Two large spheres, one in the shape of the motto of Relief Society "Charity Never Faileth," and the other depicting the globe with the words, "World Sisterhood," decorated the front of the center pipes of the Tabernacle organ. 'To further emphasize the international scope of the society and the spirit of world sisterhood, representatives of thirtytwo nations, in costume, carrying their national flags, marched down through the aisles of the choir section and placed their flags at each side of the rostrum. 'The invocation was offered by Elder Mark E. Petersen, of the Council of the ANNUAL GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 813 Twelve and an advisor to Relief Society. Counselor Marianne C. Sharp gave a brief report of The Relief Society Building activities, followed by an address by President Belle S. Spafford. After the singing of "Thy Blessing on This House, Dear Lord," also specially composed for this occasion by Sisters Christensen and Madsen, and sung by the combined Singing Mothers chorus, President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., President Stephen L Richards, and President David O. McKay addressed the meeting, in that order. While the congregation sang "We Thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet," the First Presidency went to The Relief Society Building, where the Dedicatory Prayer was offered by President David O. McKay, and was transmitted by radio to the 'Tabernacle, Assembly Hall, and Barratt Hall. 'The congregation sang "Ihe Spirit of God Like a Fire Is Burning," and the benediction was offered by President Joseph Fielding Smith, President of the Council of the 'Twelve and an advisor to Relief Society. The annual reception for stake and mission officers was held Wednesday evening in The Relief Society Building and was a beautiful and memorable occasion attended by approximately three thousand persons. Simultaneous departmental sessions for executive, music, The Relief Society Magazine, theology, visiting teaching, work, literature, and social science leaders were held Thursday morning in various meetinghouses throughout the city. THE music of the entire conference was unusually beautiful and impressive. Elder Alexander Schreiner was organist. 'The large Singing Mothers chorus also furnished music at the Friday sessions of the semi-annual conference of the Church, and, at President McKay's request, sang "Thy Blessings on This House, Dear Lord," so that the conference visitors might hear this inspiring dedicatory hymn. No meetings were held Thursday afternoon, but tours of The Relief Society Building were conducted from 2:00 to 7:00 P. M. To enable Relief Society conference visitors to see it. Additional tours were held for Church conference visitors Friday and Saturday, October 6 and 7, also Monday and Tuesday, October 8 and 9g, for any who desired to see the beautiful new home for Relief Society. Prior to the dedication, tours were conducted for special guests and stake groups. The Report and Official Instructions of President Spafford appeared in the November issue of the Magazine. 'This issue contains the complete Dedicatory Service, with pictures of 'The Relief Society Building and the address of Counselor Velma N. Simonsen, Loving, United Effort Availeth Much Counselor alton N. Simonsen [Address Delivered at the Officers Meeting of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, October 3, 1956.] stand before you today with the deepest feelings of gratitude in my heart for the blessings of the Lord unto me, and with a greater realization of these blessings, than I have ever known before in my life. Within the past week the words of one of old have gone through my mind _ repeatedly: "W hat shall I render unto the Lord for all his goodness unto me?" [I know that the most acceptable gratitude is shown in service, so I pray that throughout my life, in whatever circumstances I may be, I will be able to express my gratitude through service. You sisters here today, the leadership of Relief Society, from the amazingly widespread stakes and missions of the Church, as evidenced by the roll call just completed, are here for one purpose, that is, to equip yourselves better spiritually and intellectually, for the positions which you hold, that you may be able to serve your Father in heaven better by teaching his gospel to his daughters and in helping to establish his kingdom here upon the earth. General Relief Society conference is always a time of rejoicing. It is always a spiritual feast. Why? Because you sisters come with this singleness of purpose, united in faith and in testimony. It is a Page 814 spiritual feast because we receive instructions from our general Relief Society officers, counsel from the Priesthood through the General Authorities of the Church, and, above all else, because the spirit of our Father in heaven is with us here. This conference of October 1956 is of special significance to us. It witnesses the fulfillment of a dream which has persisted in the heart of Relief Society for many, many years —the dream of having a functional and beautiful building of its own. The dream began early in Church history, even in Nauvoo, and continued with the sisters through their forced move from the beautiful city of Nauvoo to the uninviting West, where the sisters continued their work of benevolence, unselfish sharing, and effective service in the Lord's work. And the dream to have their own building, like a golden thread, ran through all activities, as is shown by the minutes of the general Relief Society conference held October 3, 1896. Let me read you an excerpt from these minutes: President Zina D. Young, in her remarks, opened out upon the subject of a house for the Relief Society, to be owned by them. Women had done so much to help build other public buildings and temples that they had no means to build one for the Relief Society.