[Vol43 | December 1956 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Invocation | Author: Peterse]
invocation. "Home, Sweet Home." Invocation—Dedicatory Service ELper Mark E. PETERSEN Of the Council of the Twelve OC) Heavenly and Eternal Father, as thy humble children, we have gathered here this afternoon to worship thee and to thank thee for thy bounteous blessings to us. We have met this afternoon at the conclusion of a great enterprise undertaken by the Relief Society sisters of thy great Church. And at this time, we honor them and thank thee for them. We are grateful for the mighty mission they carry forward here in the earth. In all humility, we thank thee for their faith and their devotion and for the outstanding influence they have here in the earth, in their families and homes, in the Church, and also in the communities in which they live. They are, indeed, thine handmaidens here in the earth. They have with them a divine power. We acknowledge it; we thank thee for them. We thank thee for the great Relief Society organization, and for the women who have headed it and who carry on in the various wards and stakes and missions and in the general board. We thank thee that thou didst inspire the great Prophet, Joseph Smith, to organize this society, and we are grateful that it has carried on over the years and fulfilled such a great mission. Our Father, we this afternoon are to conduct this program in connection with the dedication of the beautiful new headquarters of the Relief Society; and thy great servant, President McKay, has come here to dedicate this great building — The Relief Society Building. We humbly ask that thou wilt inspire him as he does so. We pray that thou wilt be with all who take part in this dedicatory service, that all may be done under the direction of thy Holy Spirit. We are thankful for all of the women who have contributed for the construction of this Building and for its beautification. And now, Father, we pray that as the Building is about to be dedicated, that we may all be dedicated in our hearts to further service in thy great cause. And we ask thine especial blessings on the entire Relief Society organization, that it may be prospered, that it may grow, that it may bring a message of conversion, conviction, and of happiness and of comfort to the many, many thousands who will be the recipients of the labors of the sisters. Father in heaven, we now pray that thou wilt be with us during these services, guide all that is done, accept our gratitude for all thou hast given, and we do it all in the name of the Lord, Jesus Christ. Amen. 792 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1956 President Spafford: The Singing Mothers will now sing "If Ye Love Me, Keep My Commandments." 'This anthem is a composition of Sister Florence Jepperson Madsen. Following the singing, Sister Marianne C.