[Vol43 | December 1956 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Article | Title: Beauty | Author: Forever]
[Beauty Is More Than Skin Deep — Beauty That Lasts Forever]
b'Mfire  than  Skin  Deep! 
[Beauty  e/s    1 1  Lore  cJkan  Skin   'Jueep 
Beauty  That  Lasts  Forever 
".  .  .  thou  didst  not  lay  these  things  to  the  heart,  neither  didst  remember  the  latter 
end  of  it  .  .  .  ."     (Isaiah  47:7). 
durance  and  serenity,  while  the 
youthful  face  must  await  the  sculp- 
turing of  time  to  give  it  the  linea- 
ments of  completed  harmony. 
We  must  accept  our  earthly 
bodies  as  they  have  come  to  us 
through  our  inheritance,  rejoicing 
if  we  are  strong  and  well,  and  seek- 
ing to  overcome  our  incapacities. 
There  is  much  that  can  be  done  to 
maintain  health,  to  be  neat  and 
clean,  to  wear  appropriate  and  be- 
coming clothing,  perhaps  to  gild 
and  polish.  But  even  when  all  this 
is  done,  we  still  need  the  comfort 
and  the  wisdom  of  the  saying: 
"Beauty  is  as  beauty  does."  Perhaps 
it  has  taken  some  of  us  many  years 
jyj ANY  women  are  grieved  because     to    realize    the    enduring   verity    of 
they  do  not  consider  them-  this  proverb, 
selves  beautiful.  When  such  Gratitude  for  our  own  particular 
thoughts  come  to  us,  we  may  be  gifts  is  said  to  be  the  beginning  of 
looking  at  only  one  facet  of  the  wisdom,  for  truly  our  Heavenly 
many-sided  gem  which  is  our  life.  Father  has  bestowed  a  multitude  of 
For  beauty,  through  the  ages,  has  gifts  upon  his  daughters,  and  the 
been  a  changing  value,  depending  choicest  of  these  are  the  talents  and 
upon  the  transient  preferences  of  abilities  which  require  effort,  prac- 
individuals  and  of  groups.  tice,  experience  for  their  full  fruition. 
It  sometimes  happens  that  those  They  are  the  lovely  "provisional" 
who  were  not  thought  of  as  lovely  gifts  that  may  be  infinitely  added 
to  look  upon  in  their  youth,  be-  upon,  that  may  be  polished  to 
come  more  beautiful  with  each  pass-  a  shining  luster  —  music,  painting, 
ing  year,  and  their  thoughts  and  poetry,  sculpture;  the  particular- 
their  attitudes  are  reflected  in  radi-      ly   feminine   gifts   of   homemaking, 
ance  on  their  faces.  Some  women 
are  as  beautiful  in  their  maturity  as 
is  the  autumn,  which  must  inevit- 
ably follow  the  blossoms  of  sum- 
mer. And  the  testament  written 
upon  the  faces  of  the  aged  often 
reveals  gentleness  and  courage,  en- 
BE  HONEST  WITH  YOURSELF 
the  "graces  beyond  the  reach  of 
art";  and  those  most  precious  of 
all  talents  of  the  uplifted  spirit, 
which,  forgetting  self,  can  direct  its 
energies  toward  those  works  of  char- 
ity and  benevolence  that  are  forever 
beautiful. 
Page  827