[Vol43 | December 1956 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: Loving | Author: Simonsen]
LOVING, UNITED EFFORT AVAILETH MUCH dent C. O. Card had said when they lacked the means to go on with the Logan 'Temple and the men were to be discharged because there was no means to pay them for their work, Sister Jane S. Richards raised five hundred dollars in the Relief Society of Weber County to keep the men working, and that stands as a memento to the sisters forever. Vice President Sarah M. Kimball confined her remarks to the subject of a house for the Society. She felt it a humiliation to be without a place of our own; we had contributed to all public places and all times. Now we want to have a house and we want land to build it on and it should be in the shadow of the temple. It should be a place to receive strangers in when they came, a place where letters can be written from, and information given. Their plans called for kitchens, pantries, banqueting hall, cooking utensils, a furnace and closets and a room for the janitor, and offices upstairs, "with a library and bureau of information, that will be in the best sense educational, and where lectures may be given by distinguished professors in all branches of science, art and literature, and on general topics." UR building, which is now completed, more than fulfills the dreams of all of us. As you view this magnificent building, both inside and out, you will realize the great amount of hard work, trained professional help, and loving and prayerful planning that have gone into the building. You will know that the inspiration of the Lord has 815 been over it all. It was designed and will be equipped to meet the many and varied services which Relief Society offers to the Church membership—and it is beautiful. This building not only meets the specific needs of a great and growing organization divinely inspired; it represents the individuality and love of the Relief Society women throughout the world, through the contributions they have made for its construction and the many decorative and useful pieces which are the gifts of individuals, and stake and mission Relief Societies. 'The Lord knows, and we all know, that many of these contributions were made through sacrifice, but all were made freely and through love. A sister living a great distance from Salt Lake City said to President Spafford, "At first I thought, why, in my lifetime I have given many gifts which I never expect to use myself, and now it gives me ereat joy to know that I have a share in that beautiful building." The first day the building was open for inspection two little sisters stood at the entrance to the lounge room, their eyes shining in admiration. One turned to the other and said, "We didn't know our five dollars: would buy so much, did we?" Surely loving, united effort availeth much. This building is, indeed, a dream fulfilled. Sister Emma Ray Riggs McKay, wife of President David O. McKay, admires a gift in The Relief Society Building. The Meissen vase is a gift from the Swiss-Austrian Mission. & Courtesy Deseret News-Salt Lake Telegran Courtesy The Deseret News-Salt Lake Telegram ANNUAL RELIEF SOCIETY RECEPTION FOR STAKE AND MISSION OFFICERS President Belle S. Spafford greets a guest (center). Counselor Marianne C. Sharp, Counselor Velma N. Simonsen, Former President Amy Brown Lyman, and SecretaryTreasurer Margaret C. Pickering also stand in the reception line (left to right). Page 816 JITORIAL © VOL.
