[Vol43 | December 1956 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Womens McKay]
William Beal Women's Influence and Responsibility President David O. McKay RESIDENT Richards, President Clark, President Spafford and Counselors, members of the General Board of Relief Society, brethren and sisters: When one contemplates what the Creator expects and receives from his most precious creation, one is thoroughly convinced that woman has his divine trust and favor. The poet Tennyson's statement —"The Mother Makes Us Most' — has now become, at least throughout the Western civilization, a truism. Sow a thought, reap an act, Sow an act, reap a habit, Sow a habit, reap a character, Sow a character, reap an eternal destiny. "Not only individuals, but Nations are such stuff as thoughts are made of."' Mothers sow the seeds in childhood that determine to a great extent life's harvests in adulthood. Motherhood, therefore, is the greatest potential influence either for good or ill in human life. 'The mother's image is the first that stamps itself upon the unwritten page of the young child's mind. It is her caress that first awakens a sense of security; her kiss, the first realization of affection; her sympathy and tenderness, the first assurance that there is love in the world. 'True, there comes a time when Father takes his place as exemplar in the young child's mind; and in the latter's budding ambition to develop manly traits, he outwardly seems to turn from the more gentle and tender virtues engendered by the mother. But that ever-directing and restraining influence implanted during the first years of his childhood lingers with him and permeates his thoughts and memory as distinctively as perfume clings to each particular flower. In more than one instance in the life of fiery youth, this lingering influence has proved a safeguard in the hour of temptation—an influence in its restraining power greater than the threat of the law of the land, the ostracism of society, or the fear of violating a command of God. In a moment of youthful recklessness the youth might defy one or all of these forces, and do what his hot blood bade, but at the critical moment, the flash of a mother's confiding trust, the realization of her sorrow if he fail to be true to it have given him power to refrain from indulgence that might blight his entire career. Not only the mother, but the entire influence of home also influences society. Indeed, home is the foundation of civilized society. Words uttered and the doctrines taught around the fireside are the influences that shape the destinies of empires. The cultivation of home influence, the need of harmony in the home, are contributing factors to a successful democratic government. To be destitute of this sentiment is almost as great a misfortune, says Page 805 806 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1956 one man, as to be destitute of the religious sentiment. "What a mighty responsibility," I quote, "rests upon him who essays to make a home, for the founding of a home is as sacred a work as the founding of a church. Indeed, every home should be a temple dedicated to divine worship, where human beings through life should worship God through the service of mutual love—the highest tribute man can pay to the divine." "Of all human influences those of home are the most far-reaching in their results." ARRIAGE and subsequent home life are ordained of God. Home is based in the very constitution of human nature, and so vital is the relation which it sustains to our needs, that every heart must have a home. "It may not be of brick or wood or stone," says a writer in "Our Home." "It may not have a 'local habitation and a name.' But if not, out of the airy timbers of its own fancy the heart will rear the structure which it demands as a necessity of its being. We are aware that there are thousands who are called homeless; but their hearts' demand is at least partially met by the possession of an ideal home (in their minds). 'The body may exist without a home, but the heart, never. The world called Howard Payne a homeless wanderer; yet kings and peasants have implored entrance at the vine-wreathed threshold of that home which he reared in the airy dreamland of poesy." And that song "Home, Sweet Home," was sung today by these blessed mothers under the masterful baton of Sister Madsen more impressively than perhaps we shall ever hear it again. Of all human influences those around home contribute to the welfare of humanity. "There are many men who owe their honor, their integrity, and their manhood to the influence of pure minded sisters. Sisters usually have it in their power to shape the character of their brothers as they choose. It is natural for all brothers to feel and believe that in some way their sisters are purer and better than others, and sisters also believe that their brothers are nobler than the brothers of their associates. 'This sentiment is so universal that we cannot help believing it was ordained for a wise purpose. "Morals, manners, methods—" writes the author from whom I quoted, "the principal concomitants of character—have their inception and largely their development within the home. It is at once one of the most civilizing and demoralizing of human agencies. It may be a lazar house of vice, strife, improvidence, unfaith, prostituting every budding power, or it may be the sanctuary of domestic felicity, kindness, truthfulness, philanthropy, bestowing continued benedictions upon each member and radiating the light of human joy." I have dwelt thus at length upon the influence and responsibility of motherhood and of the home to emphasize the added responsibility given to these precious women to bless humankind. Not any of the duties of motherhood, not any, was proscribed—none of the responsibilities of the home limited—when on March 17, 1842, the Female Relief Society of Nauvoo was WOMEN'S INFLUENCE AND RESPONSIBILITY organized. The work of the Relief Society was to be performed in addition to the duties of motherhood and home. Do you wonder, I say, that woman has not only the trust but the blessing of Almighty God. "T now turn the key in your behalf in the name of the Lord, and this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time henceforth; this is the beginning of better days to the poor and needy, who shall be made to rejoice and pour forth blessings on your heads," said the Prophet Joseph Smith, when he organized the Female Relief Society of the Church. Eliza R. Snow put in rhyme the duties as follows: It is an institution formed to bless The poor, the widow and the fatherless. To clothe the naked, and the hungry feed, And in the holy paths of virtue lead. To seek out sorrow, grief and mute despair, And light the lamp of hope eternal, there; To try the strength of consolation's art By breathing comfort to the aching heart. To chase the clouds that shade the aspect where Distress presides, and wake up pleasures there. With open hearts, extend the fnendly hand To hail the stranger from a distant land. To stamp a vetoing impress on each move That virtue's present dictates disapprove; To put the tattler's coinage scandal down, And make corruption feel its withering frown. To give instruction where instruction's voice Will guard the feet and make the heart rejoice; To turn the wayward from their recklessness, And lead them in the path of happiness. "Tis an order fitted and designed To meet the wants of body and of mind; To seek the wretched in their true abode, 807 Supply their wants, and raise their hearts to God. BY divine decree, the women in the Church are assigned the noble mission of being exemplars and leaders to mankind in the two most worthwhile accomplishments in mortal life. First, the development of character. That is done in the home principally. Second, willingness and ability to render helpful service—that through the organized Relief Society. These two accomplishments, by the way, are all that we shall take with us when, at the end of our earthly career, we pass through the portals called Death into the realm of the Eternal—Character and Service. God bless you, beloved of the Lord, the most precious of his creations, that you may fulfill to his satisfaction his purposes designed for the members of the Female Relief Society, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. The congregation sang "We Thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet." President Spafford: These services will be concluded by the chorus and congregation singing "The Spirit of God Like a Fire Is Burning." 'This song was sung at the organization meeting of Relief Society in Nauvoo, March 17, 1842.