[Vol43 | December 1956 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Report | Author: Sharp]
Sharp, Counselor in the general presidency of Relief Society and Chairman of the Building Committee from the beginning, will give a brief report of the building program. The Singing Mothers chorus sang "If Ye Love Me, Keep My Commandments." Report of Relief Society Building Activities Counselor Marianne C. Sharp T has been eleven years since II Sister Spafford, with the approval of the First Presidency, proposed to the members of Relief Society convened in the Relief Society general conference of 1945, that they undertake the erection of a Relief Society Building. 'The proposition was enthusiastically approved. In 1947, two years later, at the general Relief Society conference, a financial plan, approved by the First Presidency, was presented and adopted whereby the sisters within a year would raise half a million dollars for the Building, with the understanding that the Church would match this amount. Every member of Relief Society in the stakes was expected to contribute five dollars—for this was to be an undertaking of the many. In addition, each stake board was asked to contribute half of its funds on hand as of January 1947. No quotas were given to the missions by the general board. Participation was left entirely to the discretion of the respective mission presidents. 'The European missions, in the aftermath of war, were not expected to contribute at all. When the sisters gathered for the 1948 Relief Society general conference, one year later, they came rejoicing. All stakes in the Church (at that time numbering 172) were recognized for filling their quotas. As of October 1948 there was contributed by the membership of Relief Society in stakes over $457,000; from stake board funds over $36,000; with a few very generous contributions from individuals. 'The missions outside Europe, under the direction of their mission presidents, had entered into this undertaking REPORT OF RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING ACTIVITIES 793 with great enthusiasm also, and a total of nearly $48,000 was contributed within that year by the missions of the Church. 'The great goal of half a million dollars had been reached and exceeded by nearly $70,000. In the years which have elapsed since October 1948, contributions in money have come in from European missions. Many missions located in foreign countries have also sent a beautiful object of art representing the respective countries. These now beautify the building. And, during the past few months, many stakes have presented lovely and useful gifts to add that woman's touch to make The Relief Society Building truly the embodiment of the culture, tasteful furnishings, and bounteous living which we, as Latter-day Saint women, enjoy in our own individual homes. The Church had agreed to match Relief Society funds to half a million dollars. The million dollars was all needed for the erection as prices had gone up and there still remained the Building to be furnished. 'The general board, you will recall, had contributions of over a half million dollars. Back we went to the First Presidency. Would they now be so generous as to match collected funds, including accrued interest, and reserve funds to a total of $100,000 — thus allowing $200,000 for furnishings and equipment and to include any overrun on the Building? HE, First Presidency were most considerate and generous and agreed to match this additional $100,000 dollars. 'The costs here related do not include the value of the site. The site, "in the shadow of the temple" which was our first choice for a site, was granted to us by the First Presidency in October 1952. Ground for the Building was broken on October 1, 1953. 'The cornerstone was laid on September 30, 1954. In it were placed materials of historic interest and the names of all contributors to The Relief Society Building. A copy of these names is today bound in two volumes in the Building. A third volume will contain pictures of gifts which have been contributed with the names of the donors. And so today, in the hearts of all Relief Society members, there is a feeling of humble gratitude for the Church, for its understanding of the needs and desires of the women of the Church. All Relief Society members throughout the lands of the earth are with us today in spirit as they have been with us in contributing of their means with sacrifice for The Relief Society Building. In deep humility we thank our Heavenly Father for numberless blessings and we do so in the name of his son, our Savior, Jesus Christ. PRESIDENT BELLE S. SPAFFORD BREAKS GROUND FOR RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING October 1, 1953 President David O. McKay at left, President Stephen L Richards and President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. At right, and former President of Relief Society, Amy Brown Lyman, back of Sister Spafford. Page 794 Courtesy The Deseret News-Salt Lake Telegram