[Vol43 | December 1956 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: An | Author: Richards]
enduring tribute to the Visiting Teachers of the Relief Societies of Page 803 804 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1956 the Church, who epitomize the heart and soul, the compassion, the mercy, and the Christ-like service of this great organization. It is the personal touch in a day of ever-increasing institutional and _professional charity. I hope it may never vanish nor weaken, and I could wish that some artistic representation on canvas, in art glass or in bronze, might be procured for suitable placement in the building to accentuate and perpetuate enduring esteem for this lovely feature of Relief Society work. Extend congratulations to the officers and members of the Relief Society in this great accomplishment Contributions to the erection of the building were solicited on such a wide base that the whole membership may feel a_ personal interest in the building. I trust and I pray that it may prove a boon to the noble work of the society, that it may bring honor and respect to the Church of Christ, that above all, through its facilities increased impetus may be brought to the work of ministering to the needs of family life, assisting and encouraging mothers in particular and the home in general to achieve its lofty station as the stabilizing factor of society and the forerunner of exaltation in the Celestial Kingdom of our Father. God bless you, my sisters, I ask humbly in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. President Spafford: It is now our privilege and blessing to hear from our beloved Prophet and President, President David O. McKay. Following President McKay's address, the congregation will sing '""We Thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet," during which President McKay, accompanied by President Richards and President Clark, will retire to The Relief Society Building where President McKay will offer the Dedicatory Prayer from the General Board Room on the main floor of the Building. RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING CONTRIBUTORS, VOLUMES ONE AND TWO These volumes contain the names of all persons contributing money or gifts.