Happy Ending Rosa Lee Lloyd KIRK had always loved Linda's dark hair. Now his hard hand touched it reverently, almost as a small son would smooth a mother's forehead. "How about it, Belinda?" he asked, eagerly.. "All right, Kirk. I can't argue with you anymorenot in that uniform. So if that's the way you want itwe'll have a wedding." "That's the way I want it." His brown eyes teased her. "Never argue with a top sergeant: especially on his first furlough. Remember had to be plenty tough to win these stripes." Linda touched them, lovingly. Her eyes held a final plea. "Please, Kirk, limit the invitations to close friends who are really glad it has turned out this way.' I don't want curious ones who would come to see the old scars" Her voice stumbled. He knew she was remembering the very thing he was so eager for her to forget. She lifted her eyes, with the faint shadows at the corners, to his tall figure lounging on the arm of her chair. "After all, Kirk, some people don't think a divorced woman rates a wedding" He stooped and closed her trembling lips with his own steady ones. His kiss was quick and light. "Is that so? Well, I think they do. In this case both the groom and the best man think sowhat they think ought to be good enough for the bride. Say!' His eyes flew to his wristwatch. "He'll be here in an hour. We'll meet him at the train. Boy! I can hardly wait." He squeezed into the chair beside her and cradled her slender shoulders in the circle of his arm. "Greg is the swellest guy in the world. That's one thing I'm set onyou and Greg seeing things eye to eye." He traced the smile on her lips with a tanned finger. "Has Greg seen your uniform?" she asked. "Yeah. Last month when I came through Omaharemember? He's anxious to get back into one. Too bad that old shrapnel wound keeps him out of the army." Linda closed her eyes. Her head rested against his shoulder. "Now remember," his young voice commanded. "'He's going to take care of you while I'm in the war. That's why I stopped over in Omahato get that promise." "You like Greg as much as ever?" "More than ever. He's tops. There isn't another fellow in the world who could step into my shoes "? Linda's eyes widened. They were provocative. He continued watching her closely. "Remember Lon Edwards? How far did he get when he tried to edge in? I had plans right from the start big ideas you called them, but I've made them come true, haven't I? I made up my mind to win" "You're a darling Kirk, even if you have been a jealous..." "And old money-in-the-bank Page 677 Hughes. Didn't I?" "Just think! I could have married all that money. Don't you feel selfish" "I do not." Now his voice tensed. "This wedding is all I have thought about for three years. It could have happened a year ago but you had to think of your pride, as you called it." Linda stiffened. "Don't go into that, Kirk." 'The words were icetipped. "After all there are certain things that even you don't know about." "OkayWe'll skip that part of it. But I have to go over itfor the last time, Belinda. I won't be satisfied unless I know the way you really feel about everything. I don't want you to marry again if you still feel bitter and disillusioned, if you are doing it just for me." There was a breathless silence. Linda's teeth left little white marks in her lower lips. When she spoke, he had to bend his head to hear. "Kirk, I know you wonder why I have never discussed my divorce with you. That is the way I am, darling. I can't talk freely about the things that hurt me. At first, I thought it was all his fault. Lately I have realized it was mine, too. There were too many parties, too much freedom, and too little respect for marriage. I had to learn that men make easy love to an attractive woman. When you marry very young, you begin to wonder if you have missed a lot of thingsyou listen to flattery. Your husband tries the same thingthen you quarrel. Divorce is the next step and it happensno matter whom it hurts. That is the story, Kirk. All you need to reI got rid of him, too. Member is that I really want to try again." Kirk's breath came easier now and the world was in his eyes. His voice was husky. ""That's all I ask. Now I can go to war with my feet in the clouds. Dreams do come trueI can hold on to that thought when the going gets tough" "Kirk" Linda held his hands in both of hers. "I didn't realize how much it meant to you until lately. HonestlyI didn't." His eyes narrowed like a man looking against the sun. The pulse in his throat throbbed. "I haven't thought of anything else since your divorce." Silence. Linda winced. "I know now how you've felt all along, Kirk," she whispered against his shoulder. "I understandtruly I do. And now just when we can be together again you're going to war" He pressed his finger on her lips. "Now, you promised not to talk about that when I joined up. We're going to think about the time when I come backremember? We'll buy a little place in the countryno more rooming houses for you to take care of. Of course we'll let Greg hang aroundGoodness, I almost forgot about him. Looks as if he'll be hanging around the rest of our lives!" They laughed together. Linda tried to match the youthful ring in his voice. He leaped to his feet and pulled her up with him. "I'm so excitedhope I don't forget anything. Let's see," he counted on his fingers. "Ring, license, minister, best man, bride, bridegroom. Boy! Have I planned for this wedding! Listen, Pet." He tipped her (Continued on page 687)