The University of the Home Elder Joseph L. Wirthlin Member of the Presiding Bishopric EEPLY carved in solid stone over the portals of one of Washington, D. C.'s _ great buildings, the following deeply significant statement is found: "The seed of the past is the harvest of the future." A short sentence, but pregnant with much food for serious thinking. The seeds being sown today are of a great varietysome good, others pernicious and noxious. All good husbandmen become familiar with the harmful as well as the good seeds, being able thereby to identify them and root them up before a rich and abundant harvest is ruined. Many of the noxious seeds are being sown about us daily and are so prevalent they are becoming very common to us: Seeds of indebtedness of such proportions in national, state, and local governments by which the shackles of bondage will be securely clasped on unborn generations the moment mortality becomes their heritage. Seeds which promulgate the false and insidious doctrine that Jesus Christ was not the Only Begotten in the flesh and the Savior of mankind but may have been a great teacher or prophet, which doctrine has led the races of man away from the true and lasting plan of peace and into the shambles of battle. Seeds which enslave the body to the use of powerful destructive drugs, namely nicotine and alcohol (A drugged nation has but one destinydecay and oblivion). Page 656 Seeds of disrespect for Constitutional Government, which lead to dictatorship and loss of representative government. Seeds of the corrupt philosophy that men have a right to expect a living from the world without any mental or physical effort upon their part, producing a generation of parasites, willing and anxious to devour the bread of the worker. These seeds largely. Determine what the future harvest will be and the question arises, who will reap the harvest and where are these reapers? The reapers of tomorrow's harvest are in your home and mine. They are the boys and the girls of today. And now another word appearsthe word home. What is its meaning? Webster defines it as a dwelling place, the house in which one lives with his family. The home is all of this and more. It is the first unit of government and church organization. It is the greatest institution of learning in the world. So aptly said by George Herbert, "The first university is the University of the Home. Here the hours of recitation are the morning, the noon, and the night. Here we find the round table of infancy and parenthood. Here are discussed the problems of the present and the possibilities of the coming years. Here sit the scholars of youth and maidenhood. Here are enthroned two great chairs endowed by destiny and sustained by human affection, fatherhood and motherhood. The greatest university in the UNIVERSITY OF THE HOME world is the home." Over the portals of every university of the home, the words of the ancient writer of Proverbs might well be inscribed: "Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it." The home is a great place of preparation for the men and women of tomorrow, the future reapers of a harvest of complexities, problems and issues which will demand the highest in morals, character, mentality, and physical strength. The head of this institution in every real Latter-day Saint home is a servant of God, holding the Melchizedek Priesthood, which entitles him to receive from on high divine direction for the good and benefit of those who reside within his household. The faculty of the University of the Home is comprised of two individualsfather, the head, and mother. Students enrolling will be sent from on high, entrusted by their Heavenly Parents for their education and training in mortality to this faculty. The responsibility thus placed upon the faculty of the University of the Home is most sacred, as the Heavenly Parents of these students desire that they will be so educated and trained that some day they may again return to their heavenly home. HE faculty of the University of the Home should provide a curriculum comprised of those courses which will achieve the finest and highest in. The training of the heart, the head, and the hands of these students., In training the heart, it is to be fully understood that this most important organ first vitalizes the body, 657 keeps it alive. It is the seat of all emotions and the greatest emotion to be cultivated and stimulated is that of love. The first and great - commandment is to love God, the Eternal Father, with all of one's heart and soul and mind; and. The second one is likened unto it, to love one's neighbor as one's self. The first lesson in the training of the heart is in the form of an introduction to the Lord through the channel of prayer. All students of the University of the Home, regardless of age, should surround the family altar of prayer both morning and night, thus teaching them the necessity of constant communication with God, their Eternal Father, which communication and supplication will inculcate into their hearts faith in, respect for, and love for the Lord and His Son Jesus Christ. With the gift of faith. Bestowed from on high comes a desire to obey the commandments of God, and over the years of childhood and adolescence there comes understanding of the Lord's purposes. From a composite of faith, obedience, and understanding comes the greatest of the Lord's blessings, namely, a testimony or divine revelation through ithe power and the gift of the Holy Ghost that God lives, that His Son Jesus Christ is the Redeemer of the world, and that Joseph Smith was an instrument in the hands of God whereby the Gospel was restored and the Church again established upon the earth. Love for one's neighbor is a lesson of paramount importance. Love is a great motivating, stimulating passion, which creates a desire to render service, and this lesson can 658 best be exemplified in rendering service in the home, first on the part of each family member, one to another, and second to one's neighbors, which service is best exemplified through the medium of the Church in the fast offering and tithing principles, in the Welfare Program, and in preaching the Gospel to the nations of the earth. Another great and important love is that for country, its fundamental law the Constitution, and all of its fine traditions. The faculty of the University of the Home will be most remiss in its teaching if it fails to call students to a consideration of the Constitution of the United States. Students should come to know and fully realize that the Constitution made possible the establishment of a great republican form of Government, under whose protection the Church of the Lord Jesus Christ could be restored again upon the earth, that according to the word of the Lord-to His prophet, He suffered it, the Constitution, to be established and to be maintained for the rights and protection of all flesh, according to just and holy principles (Doc. & Cov. Sec. 101:77), and that the Lord's prophets from the day of Joseph Smith until the present time have looked upon it as a divine document, so divine that it is literally a part of the religion of every devout and faithful Latter-day Saint. Students should be impressed with the necessity of guarding this sacred document to the end that rather than give up any of its guarantees for freedom of worship, freedom of speech, the right to own property, and rather than remove from it those elements which have built up our great nation on the principle of personal initiative and free enterprise, they should defend it to the last drop of blood. It should be made clear to them that this great land is a choice land above all other lands and is not to be plagued by a king or a dictator, that under the Constitution of the United States more benefits have been created for more people than in any other nation in all the world. In the matter of training the mind, the University of the Home has a definite obligation, while it is generally recognized the training of the mind is highly technical and is generally left to other institutions of learning. Students of the home should be taught to distinguish between that which is true and false, between the insidious doctrine of man and the doctrine of the Lord the doctrine of man having as its objective the disruption of faith in God and His purposes. Students in the University of the Home entering other institutions should have so ingrained in their hearts and minds an understanding of the Gospel of Jesus Christ that the doctrines and teachings of men will be as chaff. In other words, students of the University of the Home should understand as the Prophet Joseph Smith declared, "The glory of God is intelligence"; and the glory of God is intelligence when pure knowledge is used in righteous endeavor and in building up the Kingdom of God.- The curriculum of the University of the Home should provide an intense training of the hands. This training begins in childhood. First, the child should be taught to remember that his clothing, his food, his UNIVERSITY OF THE HOME home, and all of his materialistic blessings are the result of someone else's labor. 'Therefore, he should appreciate what it costs in labor to secure the necessities of life. Boys and girls should be given simple tasks to perform in and about the home, teaching them the great fundamental of efficiency. Efficiency is the most important fundamental to success in any endeavor. Girls should be taught all of those tasks which will go to make them efficient, capable home managers. Boys who reside on farms should be taught in the matters of plowing, irrigation, feeding, and handling of livestock and to do these so efficiently that the best results may be realized. With this fundamental training given in the home, efficiency will become a very part of the lives of these men and women of tomorrow and their efforts will be crowned with success. Students of the University of the Home should be taught that the darkest hour in any man or woman's life is when he sits down to plan to get something without working for it. Brigham Young's axiom on indolence indicates that laziness travels slowly and is soon overtaken by poverty. Moreover, each child should be taught to sustain himself rather than anticipate sustenance from any governmental agency, for after all the Government is a perpetual consumer, a consumer of the people's taxes; and because of the fact that the people sustain the Government out of their resources, in no instance should the Government support the people. Whenever a child or an individual thinks he can be dependent upon society, then he becomes an enemy of society. 659 The University of the Home library should be supplied with the finest of books. First the books ot the Lord: the Bible, the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants, and the Pearl of Great Price should be available, in addition to many more volumes written by inspired men. Surveys indicate that youth reads innumerable trashy periodicals dealing with crime and sex problems. The reading of such material can be obviated by home guidance in the proper selection of reading material. The brain is a vast storehouse of thoughts and knowledge. Thought and knowledge become the parents of deeds, either for good or evilfirst the thought and then the deed. Thoughts are but deeds in the embryo. Student-body activities in the University of the Home should be so broad as to include all activity which should give expression to the highest ideals, whether in the dance, games, athletics, drama, music, etc. After all, the recreational activities in the University of the Home should be the measure, the index by which the world will judge Latter-day Saint homes. Recreation and pleasure satisfy the desires of the heart. The kind of music listened to, the books that are read, the dramas that are enjoyed, the people associated with these are the best index to ideals and culture. The faculty of the University of the Home should impressively teach God's law of health by setting the proper example, abstaining from those things which are not good for the body. A coffee-pot or a teapot on the back of the stove is an invitation to any young man or any young 660 woman to partake of intoxicating beverages or tobacco. Students of the University of the Home should be taught that the first requisites for success are a strong, clean mind and body. More than that, the Lord's spirit will tabernacle itself in clean bodies, revealing, as the Lord promised, great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasures. 'The senior year of the University of the Home should be given over largely to the greatest lesson, namely, the lesson of life, the effectiveness of its teaching being evidenced by obeying the first great commandment of multiplying and replenishing the earth. Young men and young women ought to be taught that life has but two purposes: first, a manifestation of love for God and rendering obedience to His commandments; and second, through such obedience affording an opportunity to many of the unborn spirits the privilege of coming into this school of mortality and taking upon themselves bodies of flesh and bone. The lesson of life should be taught so clearly that students will fully comprehend that the achievement of the objectives of life are wholly contingent upon chasteness and lives that are wholly compatible with the Gospel, which should entitle any young man or woman to make claim on the bishop for a temple recommend to the Lord's house for the purpose of being united for time and eternity with one's life mate as a reward for a clean obedient life. These lessons properly taught in the University of the Home will eliminate many embarrassing situations when young men and young women appear before the bishop requesting the privilege of going into the Lord's house, and are placed upon probation for a period because of a lack of knowledge of the requirements and not living the proper kind of a life. HE inevitable day of graduation will come and the theme of the commencement exercises should be that which is found in the words of Jehovah to Joshua when Joshua stood on the heights of the promised land with the hordes of the children of Israel at his back. 'Then the voice of Jehovah said, "Be strong and of a good courage; be not afraid, neither be thou dismayed: for the Lord thy God is with thee withersoever thou goest" (Joshua.1:9). Graduates of the University of the Home will stand upon the heights of their promised land and they, too, should be strong and of good courage, know no fear, nor should they be dismayed, for God their Heavenly Father will be with them insofar as they live the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. Moreover He will qualify them to reap the uncertain harvest of the future. Their destiny is one of leadership and the Lord will qualify them for that leadership. One more word of advice to graduates, try to understand fully the fifth commandment given to Moses on Sinai, "Honour thy father and thy mother: that thy days may be long upon the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee." Honor them during their declining years, never forget that father and mother who nurtured you in your childhood, fully sustaining you throughout young manhood and young woman hood, and that God will hold to (Continued on page 694)