MOUNTAIN BEAUTY Grace M. Candland
YESTERDAY Your jutting rocks seemed sharp and cold, Deep purple shadows lay about your crest, Gray stretches spread to somber brown And lay like woolley blankets on your breast. And farther down your slopes a patch of rust, Maroon, and olive green Lay close beside the walnut hues With plots of heather in between, While at your base a field of copper ran And mingled with the maize and tan.
TODAY The sun is shining on your friendly cliffs Now strangely picturesque and warm. Your rugged slopes are one bright coverlet On which a million colors swarm. There is gold mixing in with the rose mist, Fair orchid and peach by their side, Buff, turquoise, rose, amber, and violet With salmon and garnet are tied. Cadet blue and pink race down each ravine And pepper the foothills of bright tangerine.
There is something so lovely, so wholly sublime In this perfect far-reaching color design, And all of its grandeur so wild and so free Is autumn's salute to all who will see.
Theology
Articles of Faith Lesson 21Regeneration and Resurrection Tuesday, February 1, 1944
(This is the fifth chapter dealing with Article 10)
Article 10: We believe... That the earth will be renewed and receive its paradisiacal glory.
Aim: To show what is meant by the regeneration of the earth, and when and how the earth is to be renewed; to explain the resurrections, the millennial reign, the loosing of Lucifer for a little season, the new heaven and new earth, and to show what the relationship of man is to each.
CONDENSATION OF CHAPTER 21, TALMAGE'S ARTICLES OF FAITH
RENEWAL OF THE EARTH
The Earth Under the Curse
The blessed conditions under which the earth shall exist and man shall live during the millennial era are almost beyond human powers of comprehension, so different are they from all to which history testifies and experience confirms. The description of Eden is to us as the story of another world, yet Eden was a feature of our planet, and the earth is destined to become a celestialized body.
Regeneration of the Earth
A time of restitution is foretold (Acts 3:19-21; Rom. 8:21-23). The final stages of the regeneration of nature will not be reached until the Millennium has run its blessed course. Describing the events to take place after the completion of the thousand years, John the Revelator wrote: "And I saw a new heaven and a new earth: for the first heaven and the first earth were passed away; and there was no more sea" (Rev. 21:1). A similar prediction was made by Ether the Jaredite (Ether 13:9). In the year 1830 of our present era, the Lord said: "... When the thousand years are ended, and men again begin to deny their God, then will I spare the earth but for a little season; and the end shall come, and the heaven and the earth shall be consumed and pass away, and there shall be a new heaven and a new earth" (Doctrine and Covenants 29: 22-23).
According to the scriptures, the earth has to undergo a change analogous to death, and is to be regenerated in a way comparable to a resurrection (Doctrine and Covenants 88:25-26). During the Millennium, the earth will be tenanted by both mortal and immortal beings; but after the regeneration is complete death will no longer be known among its inhabitants. Then the Redeemer of earth "shall deliver up the kingdom, and present it unto the Father, spotless, saying: I have overcome" (Doctrine and Covenants 76:107). The last foe to be vanquished is death (I Cor. 15:24-26).
The following partial description of the earth in its regenerated state has been given by the Prophet Joseph Smith in this dispensation: "This earth, in its sanctified and immortal state, will be made like unto crystal and will be a Urim and Thummim to the inhabitants who dwell thereon, whereby all things pertaining to an inferior kingdom, or all kingdoms of a lower order, will be manifest to those who dwell on it; and this earth will be Christ's" (Doctrine and Covenants 130:9).
Attempts have been made to demonstrate an agreement between the teachings of science concerning the destiny of the earth, and scriptural predictions regarding the ordained regeneration of our planet by which it is to be made fit for the abode of immortalized souls. It may suffice to say that the so-called evidence is unsatisfactory. However, let us not, because of this, disparage science nor decry the labors of its votaries. No one realizes more fully than does the mind trained to scientific method how much we do not know.
The Resurrection from the Dead
Closely associated with, and analogous to, the ordained rejuvenation of earth, whereby our planet is to pass from its present dreary and broken state to a condition of glorified perfection, is the resurrection of the bodies of all beings who have had an existence upon it. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints teaches the doctrine of a literal resurrection; an actual reunion of the spirits of the dead and the tabernacles with which they were clothed during mortal probation; and a transition from mortality to immortality in the case of some who will be in the flesh at the time of the Lord's advent, and who, because of individual righteousness, are to be spared the sleep of the grave.
Human knowledge of the resurrection rests wholly upon revelation.
Predictions Concerning the Resurrection
The prophets in the past dispensations of the world's history have foreseen and foretold the final conquest of death. Some of them testified specifically of Christ's victory over the tomb; others have dwelt upon the resurrection in a general way (Job 19:25-26; Isa. 26:19; Ezk. 37:11-14; Hos. 13:14; Matt. 12:40; 14:1-2; 16: 21; 17:23; 20:19; 22:31-32; Luke 14: 14; John 3:14-15; 5:24-25; Pearl of Great Price: Moses 7:56-57; II Nephi 9:6, 12-13; Helaman 14:15-17; Mosiah 15:20-24; Alma 40:2-6, 16-24).
To Martha, bewailing the death of her brother Lazarus, the Messiah declared: "I am the resurrection, and the life: he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live" (John 11:25).
Two General Resurrections
Two general resurrections are mentioned in the scriptures, and these may be specified as first and final, or as the resurrection of the just and the resurrection of the unjust. The first was inaugurated by the resurrection of Jesus Christ; immediately following which many of the saints came forth from their graves. A continuation of this, the resurrection of the just, has been in operation since, and will be greatly extended, or brought to pass in a general way, in connection with the coming of Christ in His glory. The final resurrection will be deferred until the end of the thousand years of peace, and will be in connection with the last judgment.
The resurrection was a favorite theme with Paul, and he gave it frequent and prominent attention (Rom. 6:5; 8:11; I Cor. Chap. 15; II Cor. 4:14; Philip. 3:21; Col. 3:4; I Thess. 4:14; Heb. 6:2). Modern revelation renews the promises made of old, and clearly indicates in solemn warning the magnitude of that which is to come (Doctrine and Covenants 42:45; 43:17-18; and many others).
SUGGESTIONS FOR CLASS PROCEDURE
Suggested Songs
"I Know That My Redeemer Lives," L. D. Edwards, Latter-day Saint Hymns, No. 290; Deseret Sunday School Songs, No. 272.
"He Died! The Great Redeemer Died," Geo. Careless and I. Watts, Latter-day Saint Hymns, No. 11; Deseret Sunday School Songs, No. 247.
"O My Father," E. R. Snow, Relief Society Songs, page 22; Latter-day Saint Hymns, No. 34; Deseret Sunday School Songs, No. 181.
"An Angel from on High," Parley P. Pratt and John Tullidge, Latter-day Saint Hymns, No. 420.
It is suggested that this class period be patterned after a cottage meeting, the teacher being in charge of the meeting. Several class members representing missionaries may present previously assigned short talks on the principal topics of this lesson. At the conclusion of these talks class members representing investigators may ask questions, make comments, or give opinions. The questions of investigators may be answered by any member of the class, who might cite scriptural quotations in support of her answer. A special musical number at the beginning or close of the cottage meeting will contribute to the character of the lesson presentation as a cottage meeting. Class members should be urged to bring copies of the standard Church works to this meeting, and class leaders should provide opportunity for their use by class members.
SUPPLEMENTARY MATERIAL
Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, compiled by Joseph Fielding Smith, 1938 edition:
The expectation of seeing my friends in the morning of the resurrection cheers my soul and makes me bear up against the evils of life. It is like their taking a long journey, and on their return we meet them with increased joy.
God has revealed His Son from the heavens and the doctrine of the resurrection also; and we have a knowledge that those we bury here God will bring up again, clothed upon and quickened by the Spirit of the great God; and what mattereth it whether we lay them down, or we lay down with them when we can keep them no longer? Let these truths sink down in our hearts, that we may even here begin to enjoy that which shall be in full hereafter. Page 296.
Discourses of Brigham Young, edition 1925:
Resurrection Necessary to Full Salvation
No man can enter the celestial kingdom and be crowned with a celestial glory, until he gets his resurrected body; but Joseph and the faithful who have died have gained a victory over the power of the Devil, which you and I have not yet gained. So long as we live in these tabernacles, so long we will be subject to the temptations and power of the Devil; but when we lay them down, if we have been faithful, we have gained the victory so far; but even then we are not so far advanced at once as to be beyond the neighborhood of evil spirits. Page 575.
Gospel Doctrine, edition 1919:
Our Indestructible, Immortal Identity
What a glorious thing it is to know and be true to that which has been revealed in these latter times through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith. It was revealed anciently by the Savior himself, and he exemplified that glorious principle of which I wish to say a few words, and which has been renewed and emphasized more especially in these latter days through Joseph SmithI refer to our identity, our indestructible, immortal identity. As in Christ we have the example, he was born of woman, he lived, he died, and he lived again in his own person and being, bearing even the marks of the wounds in his flesh, after his resurrection from the deadso also a testimony has been given to you, in later days through the Prophet Joseph Smith, and others who have been blessed with knowledge, that the same individual Being still lives and will always live. Jesus is possessed of immortality, and eternal life; and in evidence of his existence and his immortality, and in evidence of the great and glorious truths of the gospel which he taught, the death which he died, and the resurrection that he wrought from the dead, he has revealed himself and borne his own record and testimony to those who have lived and still live in this day and age.
What a glorious thought it is, to me at least, and it must be to all who have conceived of the truth or received it in their hearts, that those from whom we have to part here, we will meet again and see as they are. We will meet the same identical being that we associated with here in the fleshnot some other soul, some other being, or the same being in some other form, but the same identity and the same form and likeness, the same person we knew and were associated with in our mortal existence, even to the wounds in the flesh. Not that a person will always be marred by scars, wounds, deformities, defects or infirmities, for these will be removed in their course, in their proper time, according to the merciful providence of God. Deformity will be removed; defects will be eliminated, and men and women shall attain to the perfection of their spirits, to the perfection that God designed in the beginning.
It is his purpose that men and women, his children, born to become heirs of God, and joint heirs with Jesus Christ, shall be made perfect, physically as well as spiritually, through obedience to the law by which he has provided the means that perfection shall come to all his children. Pages 28-29.
See also Joseph Smith's Teachings, compiled by Edwin F. Parry, pp. 139-140.
Visiting Teachers Messages to the Home
Sources of Strength Lesson 5Cooperation Tuesday, February 1, 1944
The effort of a single individual may be puny and ineffective, but the combined efforts of many individuals may become powerful and effective. To cooperate with others often multiplies our strength. "No man liveth unto himself." We are all members of a group. One of the great factors in the fine art of living is knowing how to get along with others. To be pleasant to live with is an attractive and much coveted characteristic. It adds greatly to one's usefulness and to one's happiness.
One of the best places to cultivate this spirit of cooperation is in our Church work and one of the best places to practice it is in the home. Where there is a spirit of cooperation in the home, where the husband and the wife, the parents and the children are happily united and all work together, they are able to meet reverses and are pretty sure to succeed. Where there is unity, there is strength.
We recall the story of the old man, who, on his death bed, called his sons about him. Pointing to a bundle of fagots he said, "Take one of them and break it. Take two of them and break them. You see they are easily broken, a few of them at a time, but bind these together in a bundle and try with all your might and you cannot break them." There is strength in unity.
One of the essentials in getting along with people is to enjoy their confidence, and the way to do that is to be loyal to them, to sustain and build them up, to look for the good and express appreciation of it. No one ever got very high by pulling other people down. To pull a person down is the easiest thing in the world. It takes only a small mind to do that, in fact, it is the expression of a small mind.
Unselfishness is another secret of cooperation, of getting along with people. The willingness to give to others, to promote them, to advance their interests has in it something people like. When one encourages and does for those with whom and for whom he works, they will work for him.
One of the basic truths of human life is that we are essentially social. We cannot live alone. We are not Robinson Crusoes. A second great truth is that the individual owes a debt to the community and to the race; and a third is embodied in the ideal of service, "Freely ye have received. Freely give."
Again, the Church is a training school in cooperation which involves the element of service, the desire to do for others, willingness to sacrifice our own interests for the good of other people.
Discussion
1. What are essential factors in effective cooperation?
2. Give illustrations from Church history of the accomplishments of cooperative effort, such as the building of the Kirtland Temple, the erection of ward meetinghouses, the Church Welfare Plan, etc.
References
Handbook of the Relief Society, "By union of feeling we obtain power with God." (Prophet Joseph Smith) p. 22; "Women urged to work together in cooperative manner."
Gospel Doctrine, "The Object of Cooperation," p. 443
Discourses of Brigham Young, edition 1925, pp. 275-277.vol. 26, August 1939, p. 560
Home Topics For optional use on Work-and-Business Day
Modern Housekeeping Methods Lesson 5Daily and Seasonal Housecleaning Tuesday, February 8, 1944
Housecleaning need not be the bugbear it has long been regarded in many households. If the kind of furnishings are chosen that are easy to keep clean, if every possible provision is made for keeping dirt out of the house, if work is carefully planned, and if good cleaning methods are used, the upheavals that result in discomfort for the entire household need not accompany housecleaning.
Systematic housecleaning saves labor in the long run, is easier on furnishings, and is economical of material used in the care of the house. Almost every housekeeper has a more or less fixed routine of work, which might be called her plan. It is wise for the housekeeper to occasionally review her work routine to see whether or not her housecleaning is so organized as to be accomplished with a minimum of time and energy. In these days, when competent household help is at a premium, it is wise economy to "make the head save the heels."
To keep clean rather than to make clean is a thoroughly practical working principle. This means daily tidying of the rooms in constant use, distributing the cleaningespecially the heavy kindsthrough the week, and removing dirt not only frequently but thoroughly by methods that have been proved good according to both scientific and practical standards.
Dirt has been described as "matter out of place." Just as weeds in a garden are plants out of place which may eventually choke out the flowers and vegetables, so dirt from the earth, soot and oily smoke which filter into the house or come from heating and cooking equipment may eventually injure the hardiest surface. A thin film of dirt is easily and quickly removed, but when dirt is permitted to accumulate it cakes and hardens, and surfaces may then be damaged by the more drastic measures that are necessary to clean them. Frequent light cleaning is economical in that it reduces the cost of refinishing and replacements.
Dirt may be kept from being tracked into the house by such simple devices as placing mats at outside doors, by daily sweeping of walks and porches, etc. This takes less time in the end than cleaning up dirt after it has been tracked into the house, and it also saves wear and tear on rugs and floors. If wet, dirty, and muddy clothes can be removed in an entrance hall much cleaning can be avoided.
Frequent brushing of outside window sills and the use of cheesecloth-covered screens on windows that are open frequently, for instance in pantries and halls, help to keep out dirt. Covered screens may be used to filter out both dirt and dampness on bedroom windows which are open at night.
The housekeeper must not only keep dirt out of the house, but she must also arrange for the systematic removal of that which enters the house. The easiest way to manage housecleaning is to have a schedule for daily, weekly, and monthly cleaning. (See Lesson I, "Home Management,"-July, p. 438). Consideration must be given to proper cleaning equipment and supplies. We suggest that the housekeeper visit her hardware stores and see what they have to offer in the way of housecleaning supplies. She may discover a handy clothesline or the latest model of carpet sweeper. Perchance it will be a scrub pail which is light in weight and not cumbersome, or she may find a kneeling cushion which will save aching knees as she scrubs. A stepladder which has a firm base and does not wobble may appeal to her. Perchance she will visit a paint shop and discover the very enamel she wants for doing over some of her kitchen furniture. She may find handy brushes which fit the dusty corners, Venetian-blind brushes, scrub brushes made to fit the hand, scrub cloths, cleaning cloths, and similar articles. It is a good practice to check up on cleaning materials, such as oils, polishes, fine powders, coarse powders, stain and grease removers. Hand lotion should be considered as an essential part of one's housecleaning supplies, and should be kept near the kitchen sink. Keep handy such items as hair pins, a brush and comb, etc. It is surprising what a little freshening will do in the middle of the day when one is feeling very tired. A cool glass of lemonade or a piece af candy will revive the tired housekeeper. Comfortable shoes are a "must have." One should have two pairs at least. The feet will feel like new if shoes are changed in the afternoon. Shoes with run-over heels should never be worn. They can quickly cause a backache. Dresses worn on housecleaning days ought to be suited to the job. They should be washable and simple, but bright. Even for the dirtiest work do not cover the dress with an old, torn 2. List some factors which will contribute toward making daily cleaning easier and less time-consuming; weekly cleaning; seasonal cleaning. Apron. Itis surprising the effect that clothes have on one's attitude toward the work in hand. Antiseptics and first-aid supplies are other necessary parts of housecleaning equipment. The rusty tack, the bent pin, the cracked glass may cause injuries which must be attended to immediately. And finally stop working before you get too tired. About four o'clock in the afternoon make yourself stop working. 3. What will a well-balanced cleaning program include? References America's Housekeeping Book, Sec. II, p. Spring Cleaning "Planned," February 1943, p. 116 Questions for Discussion 1. What is an orderly home? Note: In the preview of the Home Topics lessons for 1943-44, published in the-July, p. 438, it was suggested that helpful bulletins might be obtained by writing to state agricultural colleges. Relief Society class leaders are reminded that each state has its own Extension Service for the benefit of its own state residents. Bulletins and pamphlets are not distributed by any state agricultural college to persons living outside the state. 'Therefore class leaders desiring such material should make requests of the Extension Service of the agricultural college of the state in which they live. Current household magazines and daily newspapers -_-  The Bible as Literature Lesson 5Bible Wisdom Tuesday, February 15, 1944 a PVisdom literature rises to its highest forms in the Bible. This is not to say that other literatures are lacking in wise sayings; there are essays and other forms that are fraught with wisdom. It is rather to emphasize the fact that within the Bible this type of literature receives distinctive attention. Hebrew wisdom is presented not alone in a book of unforgettable proverbs, but in essays of charming style and profound philosophy: it is also portrayed in the drama of Job that has challenged attention through the ages. Another thing that gives the wisdom literature of the Bible first place is its spiritual quality. Something of "Thus saith the Lord" seems to ring through many of the proverbs, even those designed to impress practical lessons of life. This quality is hardly characteristic of similar sayings taken from folklore of other peoples. For illustration, take a few of these folk sayings: "A stitch in times saves nine." "Handsome is as handsome does." "A rolling stone gathers no moss." "A penny saved is a penny earned." All of these are helpful LESSON DEPARTMENT 703 704 bits of wisdom, but they come with less force than proverbs from the Bible, such as the following: Wine is a mocker, strong drink is raging. A wise son maketh a glad father: But a foolish son is the heaviness of his mother. Go to the ant, thou sluggard; Consider her ways, and be wise. My son, forget not my law; But let thine heart keep my commandments: For length of days and long life, And peace shall they add to thee. A man shall eat good by the fruit of his mouth: But the soul of the treacherous shall eat violence. Better is a dry morsel, and quietness therewith, Than an house full of sacrifices with strife. Apply thine heart unto instruction, And thine ears to the words of knowledge. Not all the sayings to be found in Proverbs are of the cast and spirit as those just given. Some of them simply portray. Facts of life impressively: Faithful are the wounds of a friend: But the kisses of an enemy are deceitful. As cold waters To a thirsty soul, So is good news from a far country. Note the timelessness of the two proverbs just given. How these thoughts find echo today in the hearts of those stirred by the world conflict. This is characteristic of all the Biblical proverbs. 'They express truth for all time. Some of the Proverbs contain touches of subtle humor. For example: As the door turneth upon its hinges - So doth the sluggard upon his bed. There be three things which are stately in their march, Yea, four which are stately in going: The lion, Which is mightiest among beasts, And turneth not away for any; The greyhound; The he-goat also; And the king when his army is with him. Observe that some of these bits of Hebrew wisdom are cast in the form of Hebraic verse. There is a parallel structure, fitting to drive home the ideas expressed. Note also that the parallel structure is varied; sometimes it is of just two lines. At other times, as in the last example given, it is made up of several lines of differing lengths. Another thing that will be discovered by a reading of the Proverbs is the variety of subjects dealt with. At one time the writer discovered more than a score of these wise sayings expressive of the basic thought that to hold the tongue is a mark of wisdom. The sluggard, the busybody, the drunkard, the forward woman, the glutton, the spendthriftall are given scathing reproof. 'Those who fear the Lord, who honor their father and mother, who remember the needy, who deal justly are given praise with promise of reward for righteousness. And the application of each and every truth expressed with concreteness and force is in the living present. Among the apocryphal* books of the Bible is one entitled The Wisdom of Jesus the Son of Sirach. This book, like others of the Apocrypha, was not included by the early Christian fathers as scripture, though it was recommended as worthy reading. It is said that Lord Bacon found his inspiration for his splendid essays in the writings of the Son of *See note at end of lesson. LESSON DEPARTMENT Sirach. From the example that follows one can rather readily see similarity in form, at least, with that of the well-known essayist of later days: FRIENDSHIP Sweet words will multiply a man's friends; and a fair speaking tongue will multiply courtesies. Let those that are at peace with thee be many; but thy counsellors one of a thousand. If thou wouldest get thee a friend, get him by proving, and be not in haste to trust him. For there is a friend that is so for his own occasion, and he will not continue in the day of thy affliction. And there is a friend that turnest to enmity; and he will discover strife to thy reproach. And there is a friend that is thy companion at the table; and he will not continue in the day of thy affliction; and in thy prosperity he will be as thyself, and will be bold over thy servants; if thou shalt be brought low, he will be against thee, and will hide himself from thy face. Separate thyself from thine enemies; and beware of thy friends. A faithful friend is a strong defense; and he that hath found him hath found a treasure. There is nothing that can be taken in exchange for a faithful friend; and his excellency is beyond price. A faithful friend is a medicine of life; and they that fear the Lord shall find him. He that feareth the Lord directeth his friendship aright; for as he is so is his neighbor also. (Moulton's, The Modern Reader's Bible, p. 962) Another of the books of wisdom one that is among the scriptural works of the Bible is Ecclesiastes. In this intriguing book, ascribed to Solomon, are gems of wisdom well set. It faces life with frankness, dealing with its varied activities, and reading lessons out of them. |; What would seem to be a note of pessimism, of defeat, comes in the opening sentence and essay All is Vanity. Solomon, the Preacher, confesses he has tried everything that might bring joy and satisfaction to man, gathering about him as king all 705 that his heart desired, yet finding these things vain, "astriving after wind" without profit. The book continues with choice philosophic comments. It sparkles throughout with sentences that have become classic, for example: To everything there is a season And a time to every purpose under the heaven. Better is a poor and a wise child Than an old and foolish king. He that loveth silver shall not be satisfied with silver. A good name is better than precious ointment. Cast thy bread upon the waters And thou shalt find it after many days. A search through Ecclesiastes will probably reveal many sayings which have been treasured through life. Within the book are also a number of choice poems. One of these near its close is a lyric of rare beauty. It begins: Remember now thy Creator in the days of thy youth: While the evil days come not, Nor the years draw nigh, When thou shalt say, I have no pleasure in them; And closes: Then shall the dust return to the earth, As it was: And the spirit shall return unto God Who gave it. After this poetic expression comes the epilogue, which ends with this uplifting paragraph: Let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter: Fear God, and keep his 706 commandments: for this is the whole duty of man. For God shall bring every work into judgment, with every secret thing, whether it be good or whether it be evil. Suggestions for Discussion and Activities 1. What is meant by the term, Wisdom Literature? Name two or more books of the Bible that are of this literary type. 2. Be prepared to give one or two folk sayings from other than Biblical literature that may be called bits of wisdom literature. 3. Quote from Proverbs one or two other sayings which you may have treasured as helpful bits of wisdom. 4. Be ready to join with members of the class in finding various proverbs dealing with certain themes, as: Intemperance; Honoring Father and Mother; Avoiding temptation; Holding the tongue; Being industrious. 5. Find in Ecclesiastes some quotation that appeals to you, and be ready to give it in class. Note: The following is from a revelation given to the Prophet Joseph Smith, History of the Church, by Joseph Smith, Vol. I, pp. 331-332: Having come to that portion of the ancient writings called the Apocrypha, I received the following:  Revelation** 1. Verily, thus saith the Lord unto you conceming the ApocryphaThete are many things contained therein that are true, and it is mostly translated correctly; 2. There are many things contained therein that are not true, which are inter polations by the hands of men. Ee OK 4. Therefore, whoso readeth it, let him understand, for the Spirit manifesteth truth; 5. And whoso is enlightened by the Spirit shall obtain benefit therefrom; 6. And whoso receiveth not by the Spirit, cannot be benefited.... **Doc. & Cov., Sec. XCI. What "America" Means Lesson II-Our American Culture Tuesday, February 22, 1944 ULTURE is a word that cannot be defined by some conventional phrase. It is a condition and way of life which grows out of the spiritual influences and forces that are conducive of the higher life of mankind. When we speak of the culture of a people, we think of their sculpture, painting, architecture, music, literature, and the way they liveand think as a result of their high idealism. Culture grows out of religion, for it is religion that establishes and sustains fellowship with the divine spirit. A cultured man or a cultured society is a cumulative inward growth, expressing itself in fine thinking and noble activity. It is a LESSON DEPARTMENT cleanliness of heart and spirit, thoughtfulness of others, good manners, an appreciation of beauty. America has from the first developed those institutions that are conducive of culture. From the beginning of settlement to the present, American churches in their daily ministrations have always made a silent but constant and powerful contribution to national well-being and prosperity. Their services keep before the people the highest ideals of manhood and womanhood. 'The church with its Holy Bible is the chief inspiration of the vast social service rendered to the world by the millions of Christians. 'The world is after all governed more by public opinion than by, the written law, and if the ideals of the public are properly molded, then a fine cultured people grows as a result. It has been said that culture is the perfection of our human nature on all its sides, in all its capacities. Culture considers the spiritual capacities and needs of man. Matthew Arnold, the English writer, holds that the aim of culture coincides with the aim of religion. Culture aims at the perfection of the human mind and spirit and body. To know the culture of a people or of a person, one must consider their ways of life, their habits, their manners, the very tones of their voice; observe the literature they read, the things that give them pleasure, the words which come from their mouths, the thoughts which make the furniture of their minds. A true culture consists in men forgetting their hopes as centered on the outward and material things of life, and keeping in mind the inward and 707 spiritual setting. All the wise of the earth have cried out against the material ideals of humanity: the philosophers and moralists, the satirists of Greece and RomePlato, Epicttetus, Seneca, and Juvenal, not less than the Hebrew prophets and Christian apostles, up to that divine Voice that said: "For what shall it profit a man, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul?" "Nothing shows the culture and idealism of a people more forcibly than does the theater and the writers who make of the playhouse a place of beauty and a stimulus of expression of the highest poetic power," says Professor Brander Matthews. It is to the theater as an institution that the reader's mind is directed at this point. Since the days of the Greek theater when the plays of Sophocles and Aeschylus were produced somewhat as the plays of Shakespeare are produced today, the theater has been one of the great creations of culture; in turn, the stage has created a culture among all people. The art of the stage has given the public an understanding of literature and the manners of people as has no other art. The rise, progress, and cultivation of the drama mark the progress of refinement and the culture of any people. 'The drama and tragedy have brought about the. Building of the noble 'theaters of Europe and America and all civilized countries. Who has not heard of Drury Lane Theater in London and Covent Garden? The Royal Opera House of Berlin and the old City of St. Petersburg. And the National Theater of Paris will ever be remembered as the great centers of the 708: historic art. The first company to come to America to create the art of the stage came in 1751, when one William Hallam was induced to send a group of players to Virginia. The company landed at Yorktown in Virginia and then went on to Williamsburg, the capital of the colony, and Governor Dinwiddie gave them permission to build a theater and produce the first play in AmericaThe Merchant of Venice. Thus, Shakespeare had the first place in time, as in merit, as the dramatist of the western world. Soon after, September 17, 1753, the first theater was opened in New York City when a company from London produced a comedy called The Conscious Lover. On the night of November 20, the following note appeared on the playbills: N. B.Gentlemen and Ladies who intend to favor us with their company are desired to come by six o'clock, we being determined to keep to our hour; as it would be a great inconvenience to them to be kept out late. In March 1754, a company played the tragedy known as The Fair Penitent in Philadelphia. The players had success and "gained money and reputation," notwithstanding that pamphlets were published and distributed warning the people of the evils of plays, players, and_playhouses. During the American Revolution, the Theater Royal in New York was the popular playhouse, and on Monday evening, January 16, 1786, Mr. Lewis Hallam played Hamlet, the first production of this immortal masterpiece in America. It is interesting to note that during the period of the Revolution, the theater was encouraged not only because it was conducive of morals and an appreciation of fine literature, but money was raised for the benefit of the "poor soldiers and their dependent families."" Robert Morris, one of the ablest statesmen and financiers of the Revolution, said: As to the effect of the theater on manners and morals, I hold it to be favourable to both." And yet, when a bill was introduced in the Pennsylvania Legislature for the suppression of the theater, a member thought that by drawing the minds of the people to amusements they were led to forget their political duties. He avowed himself "as no friend of the fine arts," and asserted that they "only flourished when states were on the decline." In the steady growth of the American theater, the drama has been held on a very high plane. The large and beautiful theaters of Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Washington, New Orleans, with those of San Francisco and, last, but not least, Salt Lake City have been conducive of a noble culture. America has produced some of the greatest actors of all time, and the glory of the American stage has been made by such actors as Edwin Forrest, Edwin Booth, Lawrence Barrett, E. H. Sothern, Otis Skinner, Charlotte Cushman, Maude Adams, and a host of other great artists. Interesting it is to note what Mr. M. B. Leavitt, the great American critic, once wrote about the old Salt Lake Theater: I appreciate the task of writing a chapter on Salt Lake City with all respect and admiration that dignity, intelligence, honesty, and artistic instinct always command. Sweeping as the statement may seem, I do not believe that the theater has ever rested LESSON DEPARTMENT upon a higher plane both as to its purpose and its offerings than that at Salt Lake City. Literature has been another factor in expressing and giving us a national culture. Every section of the country has had its literature, and what Van Wyck Brooks wrote about New England in his celebrated book, called The Flowering of New England is applicable to all America. "All over New England," said he, "not only in the 'Literary Emporium' as Boston was called far and wide, there was a passionate interest in self-culture.... Sons and daughters of the well-to-do were sent to the literary institutions, the colleges, and academies. Children of the poorer families, who could not afford to buy paper and ink, made their own or used chalk or charcoal, and learned to write on the kitchen floor; and some groups of boys and girls who had read Irving's 'Salmagundi,' edited a family magazine. Throughout the region, as throughout the nation, there was a widely spread presentiment that a great native American literature was about to make its appearance." Mr. Van Wyck's two volumes on New England literature is itself a great work, and if the reader of this lesson is able to obtain a copy he will find many chapters that will greatly interest him. Particularly is this true of the author's description of Longfellow, Holmes, Whittier, Bryant, Parkman, and the large number of other famous souls who have given us our national literature. In the South we have had among the many writers: Mark Twain, Thomas Nelson Page, Sidney Lanier, Booker T. Washington, Opie Read, and many others. The West has given us Bret Harte, Joa- 709 quin Miller, Willa Cather, John G. Neihardt, Hamlin Garland, and Edwin Markham. This list is only suggestive of hundreds of writers who have contributed to our national literature. Today, America has a greater love for literature than ever before. The Boston Herald has recently conducted a Book Fair at the Symphony Hall in Boston, where thousands of people heard the most distinguished authors of the day. The people of America have developed a deep love for music. From the time when the English, the French, and the Spanish came to this country to settle, they sang their native songs, and it was not long before they discovered the music of the American Indians. Musical instruments were brought from the Old World, and during the seventeenth century, harpsichords, the forerunner of the modern piano, were in the homes of the wealthy people. Through the music of the different nationalities, America has emotional and intllectual ties with most of the world. When a notable anniversary of some great composer comes, Americans find themselves celebrating it as a milestone in their cultural development. Mr. Henry Wilder Foote has written the history of church singing in America, describing the psalm singing of early New England as well as the old meetinghouse songs that were sung by the congregations. The first organ brought to America from' England was placed in King's Chapel in Boston in 1713. Since the American Revolution, the larger cities have become musical centers, and the Berkshire Symphonic Festival of the Boston Symphony orchestra, conducted by Dr. Sergei Koussevitsky is destined to become an influential force in every way, and comparable to the best traditions of Europe. From the beginning of America's pioneer movement to the West, songs have been sung and the music of the melodeon, the flute, and the violin have laid the foundation of the rich American music of today. Today, practically every large city has its own symphonic orchestra. Free park concerts are given in Chicago for six nights each week throughout the three summer months. The Chicago Symphony Orchestra, Opera Orchestra, and great bands appear. Great singers and instrumentalists appear with these organizations. Thousands of people attend these concerts. Band concerts are given in various larger cities with the admission price very nominal. Civic operas are also sponsored.
America has given to the world great sculptors and painters. The list includes Augustus Saint-Gaudens, Daniel Chester French, Solon Hannibal Borglum, John Quincy Adams Ward, George Grey Barnard, Mahonri Young, Cyrus E. Dallin, Avard Fairbanks, and many others, some of whom lived in the days of the American Revolution when Gilbert Stuart and John Singleton Copley painted the portraits of the founders of our Government. Interesting it is to note that the list contains Utah artists, who have gained renown both in Europe and America.
Painting, like sculpture and architecture, is the expression of an inner sense of beauty obtained from some object, or some spiritual creation of the soul. Painting like all the other fine arts indicates the aesthetic life of a people, and this is one of the characteristics of culture.
The greatest power for culture is the development of deep religious feeling. America was founded by religious groups, all of whom had high purposes and held to the great certainty that God lives and that Jesus Christ is the Redeemer of the World. America has always turned to God in days of trial and darkness. Washington, Lincoln, McKinley, Wilson, Roosevelt have all voiced their supreme faith in the Father and the Son, knowing that such faith meets every human need. Out of the faith of America has come our art, our church buildings, our colleges, and universities all of which have led man to beauty and truth, to culture and refinement. We have our art galleries, symphonies, theaters, newspapers, magazines, and museums. Every city of America has its own public library, its churches, and public schools.
Among the works of man, there is no more perfect evidence of humanity's capacity to subdue matter and master the ever-present forces of nature than a nobly planned building, where God may be worshipped. A temple or cathedral shows the oneness of human nature, and throughout the ages the human constants,  hunger and labor, seed-time and harvest, love and death, faith and doubt have operated to produce the sacred shrines where God may be worshipped. Every American has one beautiful idea when he thinks of a church or cathedral:
O God, in every temple, I see people that see Thee; And in every language I hear, they praise Thee.
Questions and Topics for Discussion
1. What is your idea of culture?
2. In what way do people express their ideals of culture?
3. Why is the theater conducive to culture and a knowledge of the world's best literature?
4. Name several great American poets, and give something of the life and writings of your favorite American poet.
5. What are the influences that make for refinement and culture today?
6. Can you give reasons why a man who tills the soil develops fine traits of culture?
7. Why has the Bible been an influence for the development of art and culture?
8. Discuss the culture of the Mormons as expressed in the architecture of the Salt Lake Temple and other Church buildings; by their interest in the drama, music, and education.
9. Name some famous Utah painters, sculptors, musicians, and architects.
Stories from the Book of Mormon
For optional use of Relief Societies in stakes and missions in countries other than the United States, in lieu of social science lessons.
Lesson 4Rebellion of the Lamanites Tuesday, February 22, 1944
Note: For the full effect of this lesson it is imperative that the teacher and the class have at hand the Book of Mormon.
Lesson Objective: To show that wrongdoing and disobedience to God's will bring evil results.
Two great forces are at work in this worldthe force of good and the force of evil. From one comes light; from the other darkness. This being so, mortal man has always found himself between the cross-fire of these two influences. He is free, however, to make his own choice as to which way he would direct his life, whether to seek righteousness and the will of the Lord, or whether to follow selfish desires and become subject to the powers of evil. The outcome of this personal struggle when multiplied into families, tribes or nations sets in motion a spiral of hate that often is not stopped short of bloodshed and destruction.
The story of two ancient and great nations of people in America which sprang from one common ancestor has within its history this struggle between good and evil. From the beginning account of Lehi's family, when this prophet was first commanded to lead his family out of the doomed city of Jerusalem, there were seeds of discord present in the family group. Laman and Lemuel, the older sons, early manifested a hardness of heart toward the things of God. At times these brothers did repent and found themselves once again in the narrow way, but never did this repentant mood persist long enough to give goodness the upper hand in their souls.
The result was that with the passing of Lehi in the promised land came the contention for leadership of the little colony. Nephi, the youngest of the brothers born in Jerusalem, became, by divine appointment, the leader of his brethrenand this because of his choice of the good and his zeal in obeying the will of the Lord. Laman and Lemuel would not accept Nephi's leadership. Neither would they humble themselves to inquire of the Lord as to Nephi's appointment as prophet, feeling that if God had placed their younger brother over them it was unjust. This feeling grew to a point of such intense hatred that the Lord warned Nephi of his brothers' intent upon his life. They sought to kill him.
A separation of the little colony became the only solution to prevent bloodshed and further animosity. Nephi relates this parting of the family ties as follows:
"Behold, it came to pass that I, Nephi, did cry much unto the Lord my God, because of the anger of my brethren. But behold, their anger did increase against me; insomuch that they did seek to take away my life. Yea, they did murmur against me, saying: Our younger brother thinks to rule over us; and we have had much trial because of him; wherefore, now let us slay him, that we may not be afflicted more because of his words. For behold, we will not have him to be our ruler; for it belongs unto us, who are the elder brethren, to rule over this people.
Now I do not write upon these plates all the words which they murmured against me. But it sufficeth me to say, that they did seek to take away my life.
And it came to pass that the Lord did warn me, that I, Nephi, should depart from them and flee into the wilderness, and all those who would go with me.
Wherefore, it came to pass that I, Nephi, did take my family, and also Zoram and his family, and Sam, mine elder brother and his family, and Jacob and Joseph, my younger brethren, and also my sisters, and all those who would go with me. And all those who would go with me were those who believed in the warnings and the revelations of God; wherefore, they did hearken unto my words.
And we did take our tents and whatsoever things were possible for us, and did journey in the wilderness for the space of many days. And after we had journeyed for the space of many days we did pitch our tents.
And my people would that we should call the name of the place Nephi; wherefore, we did call it Nephi. And all those who were with me did take upon them to call themselves the people of Nephi" (II Nephi 5:1-9).
The full result of this unfortunate disagreement in the land of promise was not to be realized immediately. With the passing of years came bitter fruits which must always attend those who are disobedient to the will of God and who fail to repent. Laman and Lemuel and those who remained with these two elder sons of Lehi became known as the Lamanites. Darkness took possession of them. Their desires for peace, industry and the arts died. In place of these traits of culture came the wish for blood, slothfulness and idolatry. They became skilled warriors apt in the art of cunning and the insidious use of weapons, such as the bow, the ax, and the cimeter. The use of this last named, a saber in kind, indicates the sly treacherous nature which had crept into their souls. Its point hooks upward, making a thrust from a crouching position more effective.
Enos, a prophet who lived about 179 years after Lehi left Jerusalem, and who had seen wars between the Lamanites and the followers of Nephi (called then the Nephites), describes the sorrowful state into which the Lamanites had fallen in these words:
"And I bear record that the people of Nephi did seek diligently to restore the Lamanites unto the true faith in God. But our labors were in vain; their hatred was fixed, and they were led by their evil nature that they became wild, and ferocious, and a bloodthirsty people; full of idolatry and filthiness; feeding upon beasts of prey; dwelling in tents, and wandering about in the wilderness with a short skin girdle about their loins and their heads shaven; and their skill was in the bow, and in the cimeter, and the ax. And many of them did eat nothing save it was raw meat; and they were continually seeking to destroy us" (Enos 20).
With no record to inform them of the will of God, the Lamanites soon lost the desire to worship. They were cut off from the presence of the Lord. And with their failure to recognize Nephi as their rightful leader they lost the priesthood, which is the right to act upon earth in the name of the Lord. To further add to their misery the Lord cursed them with a dark skin in order to make them unattractive to the people of Nephi.
Our lesson this week gives little in the way of upliftits objective being to show that wrongdoing and disobedience to God's will bring evil results. From it, however, and from the study of the Lamanites comes a very significant fact for one who questions the value of the record of God's word to His children. Blind and ignorant though these Lamanites had become, still they felt that the power their enemies, the Nephites, had over them was due, in part at least, to records Nephi had preserved for his people. In such an understanding rests a hope for the future return to light of this benighted race.
Note the significance of this verse of Enos the prophet:
"For at the present our strugglings were vain in restoring them (the Lamanites) to the true faith. And they swore in their wrath that, if it were possible, they would destroy our records and us, and also all the traditions of our fathers" (Enos 14).
Questions for Active Reading and Discussion.
With the help of the suggested readings given below have the class carry on the discussion as follows: first, answer the question; second, read the passage given to discover plain and precious truths of the Gospel brought to light in the Book of Mormon. If time permits, have each member of the class add a passage of his own selection from within the Book of Mormon (II Nephi, Chapters 4 and 5, and Enos)  a passage that has brought new meaning to a Gospel truth:
1. What was the punishment that came upon the Lamanites for their evil doing? Read II Nephi 5:19-26.
2. What is the hope for the Lamanites as found in the blessing of Lehi? Read II Nephi 4:6-9.
The next question may be used if needed for class activity, or it may be assigned for home study.
3. How may one forgiven of sins respond to the Lord? Read the Book of Enos.
RELIEF SOCIETY Centennial Personal Souvenirs
MAKE APPROPRIATE GIFTS Gift Cards Included When Requested
CENTENNIAL COMMEMORATIVE PLATE
This pottery plate, 10 inches in diameter, depicts the first Relief Society meeting held in Nauvoo, March 17, 1842. Brown is the predominating color of the design on this beautiful ivory plate, with costumes in a variety of colors. The plate is bordered with gold-colored wheat heads. The inscription on the back gives information as to the organization, scope, and purposes of Relief Society.
Price $1.50, postpaid.
OFFICIAL RELIEF SOCIETY PIN
No. 1 Pin of blue baked French hard enamel and 24 carat gold-plated. Price $1.10, postpaid.
No. 2 Pin of blue baked French hard enamel and 10 carat solid-gold front gold filled. With 24 carat gold-plated back. Price $1.80, postpaid.
Both pins are identical as to design, size, and coloring. Although issued as a feature of the centennial year, this pin bears only the organization date, 1842, and will therefore be appropriate for use after the centennial. These prices include Federal excise tax.
"OUR LEGACY RELIEF SOCIETY CENTENNIAL ANTHOLOGY OF VERSE"
This 329-page book contains poems selected from the writings of Latter-day Saint women from 1835 to 1942, including all the prize poems designated in the annual Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Poem contest. The relatives of those whose poems are included in this anthology will be especially interested.
Price $1.50, postpaid.
"A CENTENARY OF RELIEF SOCIETY"
A panorama of Relief Society's first hundred years in picture and story, containing much material heretofore unpublished. Bound in a blue paper book cover, with its title "A Centenary of Relief Society" and the centennial insignia beautifully embossed in gold. 96 pages, size 9x12 inches. Over 500 pictures of historical interest. The price of the book has been kept as low as possible50 cents per copy, postpaidwhether single copies or quantity lots are ordered. Orders cannot be accepted without the remittance of 50 cents per copy. A special gift card will be sent with all copies of the book designated as gifts.
Order from your wardrepresentative or direct from the General Board.
All articles listed above are obtainable only from General Board of Relief Society, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City.
Shall I Go to College?
Young people, in the confusion of the day are asking this question. THE ANSWER!
Leaders everywhere are constantly stressing the need for training in all fields of lifefor leaders equipped to meet today's complex problems.
Military leaders are encouraging military personnel to continue their education while in the service. Many men are actually being sent to Universities for specialized training.
Experience is proving every day that EDUCATION PAYS!