WHAT WOMEN THINK.

	I have been thinking of the EXPONENT, and
wondering why more of our sisters (I should
say all of them) do not take it. Surely it is 
of some importance that the women of Utah
should be properly represented; we certainly
have misrepresentation enough. The cry has
ever been, the down-trodden women of Utah.
This same cry of oppression is made an excuse
for all kinds of newspaper abuse, and a pre-
text for interference in our public and domes-
tic institutions; indeed, they would have the
world believe us the most degraded and neg-
lected beings of all God's creation. Now, we
know this is not so; we enjoy full as much lib-
erty as they do, and a great deal more, with all
their boasted civilization. We do not need
their sympathy nor their interference in our
behalf. We enjoy all the rights that are ac-
corded to our sex anywhere, and know as well
how to use them as any of our compeers in the
Eastern cities would. Indeed, we enjoyed more
before they kindly introduced so much of their
vaunted civilization into our midst. The day
has been when we could walk the streets of


Salt Lake City at any hour of the day or
night, if necessary, without fear of insult, for
every man we met would be a brother and a
friend. But alas! this state of things did not
continue. Civilization came into our midst,
and the efforts of our Christian friends have
not only been successful in building churches
on many of our corners, but too many of the
opposite corners are occupied by the dealer in
intoxicating liquors, and the gambling hall is
there, with all the allurements of vice to lead
astray the unwary; and after the shades of
evening fall it is no longer safe for innocence
to walk the streets of our city nnprotected;
while the strange woman spoken of in Proverbs,
seventh chapter, lieth in wait to see if she can-
not catch some of the simple ones and lead the
youth of Zion astray. These are the scarlet-
robed women; but they belong not to us. They
are a necessary institution of the opposers of
this latter-day work. This is lamentable; and
shall the women of Utah keep silent when their
dearest and most sacred rights are being in-
vaded? No; rather let us raise our voices and
cry aloud at the injustice done us, till the na-
tion hears us and respects our rights. Let us
prove to the world that we are not the ignorant
slaves and bond-servants of men that the Hon-
orable Senator Morgan of Alabama would
represent us.
	Mothers and daughters in Israel, arouse
yourselves and show the world that our moral-
ity is at least of as high an order as that prac-
tised in the light of the civilization of the
Capitol of our country. And though our sen-
sibilities are as delicate, and our affections as
tender as the best and truest man can desire,
yet, when we go to the polls, we understand
full well our privileges, and vote for our friends
and those who will work for our best interests;
for men who honor the Constitution of our
country, and not for those who would defraud
us of our rights, who would sow dissension and
introduce debauchery and demoralization into
our midst. We want men to represent us who
understand the principles of purity and virtue,
and practice them in their own lives.
	These are the principles we will teach our
sons and our daughters; and when men come
among us seeking for office, who disseminate
falsehood and trample on our rights, they will
ever and always, I trust, find themselves con-
fronted by the Women of Utah.
