WOMEN AND TEMPERANCE.

	EDITOR EXPONENT:—In the last number of
your valuable paper, the ruling of the Judge
of the Supreme Court in regard to the liquor
question was referred to, and it was suggested
that every woman who has the welfare of man-
kind at heart should protest against it. I en-
dorse the sentiment with all my heart. It is
my earnest conviction, however, that women
many times bring untold misery upon them-
selves and their offspring by indulging in spir-
ituous liquors in various forms at certain times
in their lives, thus creating an appetite for
strong drink in their children before their
birth, which will be a withering curse to them
all their life long.
	I have heard some women say they could
not do without liquor at certain times, which,
however, with my past experience I do not be-
lieve. To illustrate my belief I will relate an
incident in my own life. My first child was
born in the winter of '48, at Winter Quarters,
and in the opinion of all my friends, I was
very near unto death; and I wish to state em-
phatically in this connection that I was not
snatched from an untimely grave by the use of
alcoholic stimulants in any form, but by the
power of God through the faith of the sisters
who had met at Brother Heber C. Kimball's 
to hold a little prayer meeting, and at the re-
quest of a sister of our family they exercised
their faith and prayers in my behalf; and as a
result I began to improve from that very hour,
and was soon restored to my usual health.
	I would further say on this subject that if
we admit that liquor is sometimes beneficial,
we also know that there is no safety in its use.
If it has ever saved life, it has also been the
great destroyer of the human race. I have
known bright, intelligent and would be useful
men, if they had been able to overcome their
appetite for liquor.
	I have often wondered why this state of
things should exist with intelligent beings, pos-
sessing many of the attributes of the Deity. I
have been told that it is often inherited from
one or both parents. There surely must be a
fearful retribution for those who willfully be-
queathe such a fearful legacy to their innocent
children.
	But for those parents who have acquired the
habit in ignorance of its direful results, and
who have not sufficient stamina to overcome it,
I have much sympathy. My advice to moth-
ers bearing children is to abstain entirely from
the use of alcoholic stimulants, that they may
not be called to account in a coming day for
rearing a generation of drunkards.
	In view of such probable results, I would
far rather a daughter of mine should remain
in single blessedness all her days than become
allied to a young man who is habitually ad-
dicted to the intoxicating cup, even in a mod-
erate degree. Some may think I am too radi-
cal on the subject, but I feel that we have
much at stake in the future welfare of Zion,
and that we should set examples before our
children worthy of their imitation; and if we
fail to overcome our own propensities in the
direction of intemperance, we can hardly ex-
pect our children to do so.
	With these few reflections I will close, hop-


ing the Saints will give this momentous subject
the attention it deserves.
	R. A. W.
Manti, Jan. 17, 1882.


[Column 1]

