CELESTIAL MARRIAGE.

	As so much is said at present upon the law
of Celestial Marriage, and so very little under-
stood about it, at least among many of our own
people and those not of our faith, I will en-
deavor to say a few words in relation to this
subject.
	Brother Orson Pratt said, in a discourse up-
on this subject given in Salt Lake City 1869
(page 76 "Does the Bible sanction Polyga-
my?"): "If all the inhabitants of the earth at
the present time were righteous before God,
and both males and females were faithful in
keeping His commandments, and the number
of the sexes of a marriageable age were ex-
actly equal, there would be no necessity for
any such institution; every righteous man could
have his wife, and there would be no overplus
of females." But he further explains, that by
taking the statistics of the census of the differ-
ent States, that there are hundreds of thou-
sands more women than men; one cause of
this being that many more males die under the
age of twenty years than females, while many
lose their lives in war and other employments.
	Brother Pratt also said that God was fight-
ing against the evils and wickedness which are
the result of so many being deprived, by man-
made laws, of fulfilling that first great com-
mand to multiply and replenish the earth; 
hence. He has given a commandment whereby
this can be remedied. For certain reasons best
known to our Heavenly Father, the Nephites
were commanded not to practise this principle.
Brother Orson Pratt said it was because their
numbers were equal when Lehi left Jerusalem.
Some try to take advantage of this, but I think
whatever God commands us to do is binding
upon us, no matter whether any one else ever
practised it or not. The Bible informs us that
in the days when God talked with man, that
this principle was practised, and God honored
those most who did practise it, and speaks of
Abraham as being the father of the faithful.
but if he lived at present, the so-called Chris-
tians would seek to take away every privilege,
and even his life if they could.
	No man can take wives outside of the law
of God and please God, as was the case with
David; God gave him many wives, but in the
case of Uriah he took the wife unto himself
and robbed another; hence, he was under con-
demnation, as is recorded in the 11th and 12th
chapters of Second Samuel. But we find that
after being chastened he took Bathsheba in the
right way, and she was the mother of Solomon,
who was termed the wise king; who was also
honored by God's presence, for He appeared
unto him twice. But he was not so wise that
he kept from sinning, for he took wives from
the nations which were forbidden to the Saints,
and they succeeded in turning him to idolatry.
But nothing is said about its being a sin to take
more wives than one,
	Brother Orson Pratt also mentions in his
remarks about the sister of Moses and others,
who were jealous because Moses had taken the
Ethiopian woman, in addition to the daughter
of Jethro, whom he had taken before in the
land of Midian; that Miriam, his sister, was
smitten with leprosy the moment she began to
complain, and was considered unclean for a
certain number of days.
	I wonder how many cases of leprosy there
would be at present, if every woman was
stricken with it that speaks against Celestial
Marriage.
	I will make one more reference to the Book
of Mormon. The Lord said unto Jacob, in

[Column 2]

connection with other things: "For if I will,
saith the Lord, raise up seed unto myself, I
will command my people; otherwise ye shall
obey these things." This plainly showed there
was a probability that the time would come
when He would command His people otherwise.
	The revelation was given in 1843, and Jo-
seph Smith the Prophet practised it, and young
maidens were sealed to him and lived in the
house with his wife Emma, until she aposta-
tized from the faith, or, rather, rebelled against
the Lord, and like the ancient Jews, when they
found that the Savior had arisen, they hired
the watchman to tell that His body was stolen,
and thousands are deceived by that story to-
day. So with Emma, Brother Joseph's wife;
she destroyed the original copy of the revela-
tion, and after Joseph's death taught her chil-
dren that he never received any such revelation,
and they believe it and try to induce others to,
and many do. But she did not thwart the
purposes of God in doing this, for Bishop N.
K. Whitney, one of Brother Joseph's particu-
lar friends, had preserved a copy of the reve-
lation, but it was not published until the Lord
directed. And because she rejected the word
of the Lord, it was no sign His work was go-
ing to stop.
	We hear very much said about Celestial
Marriage being such a trial. I do not doubt
but some are tried in this order, but is there
any principle, if it is practised aiming at per-
fection, but will try our selfish natures in some
way or other? I think not. The great trouble
is, except we have a testimony of the truth of
Celestial Marriage, we think every little trou-
ble unnecessary. Isaiah says, just after speak-
ing of the great calamities which will come
upon the daughters of Zion for pride, "That
seven women will take hold of one man, say-
ing, we will eat our own bread and wear our
own apparel, only let us be called by thy name,
to take away our reproach." I think it would
be better for the people to accept a principle
than to be forced to it in that way.
	We read in the Bible, Rev. 21st chap., that
John saw a beautiful city coming down from
heaven, and it had twelve gates, and an angel
at each gate; and each gate had a name writ-
ten upon it, and the names were the Twelve
Tribes of Israel; and we know that Jacob's
twelve sons, by four different wives, will be the
ones whose names will be written in such holy
places. I expect the next measures introduced
will be some leading man advising Congress to
adopt special legislation to deprive the twelve
sons of Jacob of a representation in heaven.
