[COLUMN 1]
		HOAR’S SPEECH IN THE SENATE.
	HIS RESOLUTION FOR A'.SELECT COMMITTEE
ON woman’s RIGHTS.
Mr. President [italics]—I do not understand that the
question which the honorable Senator from
Missouri has discussed with so much eloquence
is before the Senate. No question of the ex-
tension of suffrage to any portion of our citi-
zens is raised by the resolution which is before
the Senate. The only question now is, first,
whether Senators like the honorable Senator
from Missouri will prefer to decide this ques-
tion before it is heard or after; and  next,
whether if one-half the population of this
country have an interest which their represen-
tatives desire to present to Congress, it will be 
more convenient to give them a hearing by one
of the standing committees of the Senate or by 
a separate committee appointed for that pur-
pose. I suppose the Judiciary Committee
would be entirely competent, and would be for
many reasons entirely appropriate, as the
proper organ of the Senate to hear the request
of these ladies; but the Judiciary Committee
is crowded with great subjects, and as one very
intelligent Senator observed to me yesterday,
“Send the matter to the Judiciary Committee,
for they never report on anything.” This com-
[COLUMN 2]
mittee is proposed, not alone to hear any repre-
sentation or arguments which may be proper
to be heard in regard to the question of Wo-
man Suffrage, but in regard to all subjects
where these ladies think their sex lies under
an improper legal disability. Mr. President, I
suppose that the wildest conservative in this
country will not deny that the old Common
Law, in defining the rights and duties of Eng-
lish and American women was not only unjust,
but almost brutal, No matter what might be
the degradation of the husband, the person,
the earnings, the personal property, the real
estate for life of the wife were absolutely in his
power. The discussion of this class of ques-
tions has convinced the American people, I be-
lieve, to an absolute unanimity of judgment,
that the law which permitted the husband to
beat his wife with a rod varying in size with
the thumb of the Lord Chief Justice or Chan-
cellor, which denied her the right to secure the
earnings of her own day’s work, which denied
her any voice or control in the education or
custody or direction of the children which she
had borne, was not only unjust, but almost
brutal. Within our national jurisdiction, with
Congress  organizing the institutions of the
great Territories, which are to become imperial
States, is it not fitting that that class of con-
siderations should be gravely, fully, adequately 
considered? If so, I do not see why the hon-
orable Senator from Missouri (who, I know,
entertains as high and chivalrous a regard for
the sex to which our mothers and sisters and
wives belong as any man on this floor) should
not unite with me in providing for giving a
respectful and thorough hearing, which it is
impossible that any of the standing committees
of this body can do, to the petitioners on this
class of subjects. Unless I am misinformed, it
is the rule of the Judiciary Committee, from
which they almost never depart, to give no
hearing at all, a course to which they are con-
strained by the necessities of the business com- 
mitted to them. Therefore, entirely independ-
ent of any question of the right or propriety
of extending suffrage to the women of this
country, it seems to me eminently proper and
fitting that this committee should be raised.
	I agree with the honorable Senator that if it
were the purpose of the advocates, of Woman
Suffrage to degrade any woman of this country
to the level of the masculine, ward politician,
who at present is governor of so many great
cities, and so many great States, it would be a
conclusive answer to this proposition. That is
not the purpose. It is not to degrade woman
to the present level of masculine politics; it is to
elevate masculine politics to the present level
of woman, to which the advocates of this re-
form are giving their efforts. I do not think
the honorable Senator from Missouri, or the
honorable Senators from any other State what-
ever, at present or in the past, have shown skill
enough in the matter of governing States to
enable them to claim any special superiority
for the masculine intellect in dealing with that
particular subject. I think myself that in de-
termining the policies which shall govern our
schools, the most important single question
which comes before legislative bodies; in de-
termining the policies which shall govern our
civil service, which is so largely filled by wo-
men to-day; in determining the questions which
concern the sale of intoxicating liquors, and
all the class of questions where the sphere and
the purity and the morality of American citi-
zenship are concerned, we may well, before we
come to a conclusion, count the vote and ascer-
tain the judgment and obey the wish of the
women of America. Proud as I am of the
history of this country, proud as I am of the
history of the English race to which I belong,
I do not think that it has shown any absolute
wisdom or inspiration in its capacity to provide
for the government of States, which enables it
[COLUMN 3]
to look with disdain on the proposition to avail
itself of feminine purity, of feminine instinct,
or of feminine wisdom, in dealing with the great
subjects with which States have to deal.


