Adventuring into the Past
A Glimpse of Grace Raymond Hebard and Her Experiences Encountered in Her Discovery of the Identity and Later Life of the Famous Guide to the Lewis and Clark Expedition?the Woman Sacajawea
By Lorene Pearson
LEGENDS arouse in most of us a sense of poetic satisfaction in the very limitation of the myth. But let an historian discover something new about the legend, immediately our passive attention is cast aside and the Sherlock Holmes propensity lurking in our depth takes us over and we join the investigator eagerly. It is human nature, surely, to want to learn something more, something new about people we know or have heard about. Our insatiable curiosity about the lives of others?not so essentially different from our own?comes to the fore the moment an item is mentioned about Napoleon, or Shelley, or our next door neighbor. And the passing of time does not seem to affect the intensity of our interest. The stories of Homer, of the Bible, breathe of the problems we have in this modern age, and we respond to them almost as eagerly as news of a living man or woman. The recent discovery that the powerful Queen Elizabeth suffered an attachment for the handsome young Essex stirred most of us in spite of the lapse of three hundred years since the actual happening. Interest in legends is ever new, perhaps that is why they became legends, perhaps there is something universal in them.
Be that as it may, we are interested in heroes and heroines, and not only poetically and scientifically (in what we may learn from them), but also personally. That is, we are interested in the finding of new facts about legends, in participating in an adventure into the past. The story of Sacajawea, of our American legend, provides ample appeasement for all three interests. It is common knowledge among us that over a century ago an Indian woman, carrying on her back a young papoose, guided Lewis and Clark across the unmapped miles of the Rocky Mountains on the epic and heroic expedition to the Pacific Ocean and back again to the Missouri River. At the close of the trip in 1806 this Indian heroine walked out of the Journals of the two Captains and the story of Sacajawea became a legend. Almost nothing more was known of her until Grace Raymond Hebard published her investigations in a recent book. The story of how Miss Hebard sought and found out the fate of Sacajawea is fascinating and interesting. Know first, however, that historians publish books of facts. Which of course are of great value and interest, but that they rarely even hint at the various adventures that led to the facts. These experiences are quite outside the scope of the book, but they remain forever with the writer?after the facts have become an entity in themselves?as the romance of their work. Do not, as I did, conjure up a vision of dim and dusty archives, ladders leaning against ceiling high stacks of ancient documents, (although this has a place in the adventure), with pale light sifting hesitatingly down through a mote-laden atmosphere on the antiquarian humped over his work, and think you have a