picture of the life of an historian. Meeting Miss Hebard and hearing her experiences dashed this picture to pieces and put in its place an exciting series of events and scenes in tepees of the Shoshone Indians on their reservation in western Wyoming, not, of course, without glimpses of the mysterious and awe-inspiring depths of the Royal Archives of Germany. The search for Sacajawea's history involved adventure in a very real sense.
GOING back to the beginning of the story we find the United States Senate and President Thomas Jefferson concurring in 1803, in the purchase of a vast, almost unknown country west of the Mississippi River. But the newly acquired Louisiana Territory loomed vague and unexplored on the outskirts of the little group of states not many years removed from the Declaration of Independence. Twenty-five hundred dollars were appropriated for the purpose of discovering something of the worth of this wilderness, and something of its extent. It was not even known how far it was to the Pacific Ocean, or whether the Rocky Mountains would ever be passable for commerce. Captain Meriwether Lewis and Captain William Clark were chosen to head this historic expedition into the wilds. Their story, in graphic detail, is found in the Journals of the Captains and others of the party and provides an adventure probably unequalled in the conquest of the west. Going up the Missouri River in 1804 to the Mandan villages near the present town of Bismark, North Dakota, the company went into winter quarters to prepare equipment for the long journey the following spring. Before the departure the Captains secured the assent of a Frenchman, Charbonneau, and his wife, Sacajawea, to accompany them as guides and interpreters. Briefly, Sacajawea was a Shoshone or Snake Indian girl who had been captured from her people by the Gros Ventre Indians and later sold or gambled away to Charbonneau. Lewis and Clark were particularly happy to be able to take Sacajawea with them as the Shoshones had to be depended upon to provide the horses for the journey across the Rocky Mountains. Another member joined the party before the departure in the spring of 1805. Baptiste, the famous expedition papoose, was born to Sacajawea a short time before the boats left their moorings at the Mandan villages. The Journals are rich with details of the helpfulness of the little Indian woman. "When starvation faced the party she found edible roots; when a canoe capsized in the river she saved many valuable articles; she negotiated with her brother, the Chief of the Shoshones, for horses; and when they entered the maze of the mountain country she led them through the easier passes. In fact, both Lewis and Clark state very emphatically at the close of their reports of the expedition, that the trip would probably have been impossible without her. Out of the Journals grew the legend of Sacajawea. But what became of her after the company left her, Charbonneau and Baptiste at the Mandan villages? No one seemed to know definitely, until Dr. Hebard published her recent book of investigations.
THE unravelling of the fate of this heroine is of particular interest to us at this period of increasing national consciousness. Information concerning the events which have helped to build up the structure of our country have assumed significance. We are interested to know that Sacajawea did not sink into the obscurity of the ordinary Indian squaw?degenerate in her tepee; we are glad to know, that as a result?at least partly?of her associations with the two explorers, she was later able to be a friend of the white man and a wise counsellor to Chief Washakie and the Shoshones in the great problem of adjustment between the two races. It is good to know, too, that in the development of our country all the Indians were not necessarily our savage enemies.
DESCENDANT OF SACAJAWEA
PROFESSOR HEBARD, seated at her desk as head of the Political Economy Department of the University of Wyoming, recounted her adventures to me. For an hour and a half she told graphically of the excitement of finding new clues, of the tragic loss of materials that had been destroyed, of the humorous contacts she had had with the Indians and of the sometimes wonderful interviews with old, old Shoshones. Work: began on the problem of Sacajawea's fate about the time of the St. Louis Exposition in 1904. This date being the centenary of the Lewis and Clark expedition, a section of the Fair was devoted to the Louisiana Purchase. On these grounds was a beautiful statue of the Indian woman guide. Much interest was aroused in Sacajawea. Dr. Hebard was stirred sufficiently to follow the problem for almost thirty years. But the task did not look easy. One hundred years is a long time for even the best of evidence to remain intact. Miss Hebard reasoned that Sacajawea, if she had lived to any age at all, must have returned to her people in the Rocky Mountains as she was only one of several wives to Charbonneau and apparently not attached to him by affection. Following up this suggestion Miss Hebard sought out the Reverend John Roberts, a missionary to the Shoshone Indians on their Wind River reservation since 1883. This gentle old man told her the most exciting thing she had yet encountered in the way of a clue. "Yes," he answered to questioning, "in 1884 I officiated at the burial of a prominent Indian woman, one hundred years of age, by the name of Sacajawea. I have her burial on record." Like most American pioneers in those days he knew very little of the Lewis and Clark expedition, being concerned with the practical problems at hand, and as a result had given the matter only cursory thought until he was queried.
BUT what a clue! Sacajawea had returned to her people and had lived to an old age. Perhaps there were old Indians still alive who had known her. With the help of the Reverend Roberts and Mr. F. G. Burnett, in the Government service, she was able to find out that Baptiste, the expedition papoose, had died the year following his mother, and that Bazil, the son of Sacajawea's dead sister, whom the Journals speak of being adopted by the Indian guide at the time of the expedition, had died the year following Baptiste. These three were dead but two grandchildren were located, Barbara Myers, daughter of Baptiste, and Andrew Bazil, son of Bazil.
DR. HEBARD could scarcely wait for an opportunity to journey to the reservation. When temporary relief from the duty of teaching did come, she took a stenographer and went to the Shoshones. Lying along the base of the rugged, pine-covered Wind River Mountains, extending out into the sagebrush flats of the Wind River basin, the reservation was picturesquely reminiscent of the by-gone days of Indian supremacy. The pointed tepees clustered along the willow-bordered stream or set in solitary wistfulness among the sage, the Indians on slim ponies trailing through the sagebrush, their hair still long and braided, were visions of another day. Only the occasional patches of plowed ground, and the red buildings of the government school and the old barracks of Ft. Washakie, hinted of the presence of the white man. There was a poignant mingling of the past and the present. It was here that Sacajawea had lived the latter part of her life. And it was not long until Miss Hebard realized that the story of the woman guide was tribal history. No white man had ever before been interested in their traditions, so the story had not become known. To prove that the tales concerning Sacajawea were authentic tribal history and therefore valid as historical documents, Dr. Hebard, her stenographer, and one or two interpreters visited one morning in one tepee, unannounced, and immediately afterwards went by car?in this land of pony travel?to another tepee miles away to ask the same questions. The stories were the same and not tales manufactured for an inquirer's edification. Then she visited the old Indians who might have known Sacajawea. Dr. Hebard wanted these old people to remember back, to uncover in their memories some clue that could later be searched for among archives. An extraordinary instance of how this actually worked out happened in connection with Susan Perry. It had been suggested that this aged Shoshone woman, living far out in the sagebrush, might have known Sacajawea. Hunting for her tiny tent in the billows of gray brush was an adventure in itself. The guide of the party knew about where she lived but there was difficulty in sighting the white point. Following a mere trail they came at last upon the dwelling of Susan Perry. They knew that her people were all away in the mountains hunting and they thought for a moment that no one was home. But the tent flap was
SUSAN PERRY, ONE HUNDRED YEARS OLD, REMEMBERS SACAJAWEA
fixed in the customary way to tell the visitor that the old woman was gone, on just a short errand. Presently Dr. Hebard saw, not far away, a pile of squaw wood, and on top of it, what looked like a bundle of rags. Susan had evidently grown tired gathering her wood and had lain down a moment to rest. Aroused by the approach of the visitors she fluttered to a sitting posture. Here, in the late afternoon sunlight, they interviewed Susan Perry. The moment Dr. Hebard sat down Close to her the aged woman reached for her hand and held tightly to it during the questioning. She was blind, and this was her way of "seeing" her visitor. The questions were put to her slowly. She said that she had known Baptiste and Bazil very well. Then the' interpreter leaned closely to her, asking the important question, "Did you know Sacajawea?" The visitors were tensely silent. Susan Perry put her wrinkled brown old hands to her face to think back. After a time she shook her head. Sacajawea was often called Porivo, meaning Chief. The interpreter leaned closely again, substituting the new name. A bright smile changed the puzzled expression on the wizened brown face. "Porivo? Of course." Then followed the memories of the old woman. She remembered particularly the time Sacajawea had stood up from the outer circle of seated squaws at the council of 1868, and had spoken! It was at the time the Shoshones had accepted the new reservation on Wind River for the old one in the Fort Bridger valley. The Indians were objecting to the building of the railroad through their reservation and war would probably have resulted if they had not gone to Wind River. At this crisis the Chiefs and the White men had stood in the inner circle of the Council, but they had turned and listened to Sacajawea! This unique performance of the Indian woman was a clue that led to substantiation again and again. And the fact led to a number of other discoveries such as the one disclosing that it was Sacajawea who kept Washakie faithful to the white man, encouraging him to boast that no white scalp had ever hung from his belt. All this from old Susan Perry. There was an interesting incident connected with this interview that Dr. Hebard will never forget. As the party was ready to leave the professor leaned down to shake hands with the old woman, and, as she did so, she slipped a silver dollar into her hand. Clutching it tightly in her fist Susan Perry beamed in a most ecstatic manner and murmured, "Sugar and coffee!" Reaching quickly again into her pocket Dr. Hebard caught up the remainder of the loose change and put it in the brown, worn hand. Again the tight clutch, the ecstatic smile and this time these words, "Candy for the children!' They left her sitting there in the late afternoon sunlight on her pile of squaw wood. The snow crested Wind River Mountains towered above her, and as they drove away the billows of gray sagebrush closed about her and her tiny pointed tepee.
THE interesting thing about research of this kind is that all manner of unforeseen developments creep into the investigation as it progresses. The strange history of Baptiste, the expedition papoose, came out through a clue from his daughter Barbara Myers, in a tale that seemed absurd on the face of it. It was generally known that Baptiste had been a fluent linguist in German, French, Spanish and English besides Shoshone, but even this did not prepare the interviewers for the story that came to them. They were all seated in the tepee of Barbara Myers. The stenographer was to take down all that she could as the interpreter repeated the answers to her. Miss Hebard was to note down as much as possible so that between the two of them an accurate account of the interview could be kept. After a few sentences regarding her grandmother old Barbara said that her father, Baptiste, had not only been to the Pacific Ocean with Lewis and Clark, but that he had also been east to the great river where there were houses built on the water and that he had lived in one of these for many days until he had come to the land where people wore wooden shoes. He had gone there with royalty and had stayed several years. Dr. Hebard very faithfully scribbled these things down, but commented to herself that these were interesting but absurd ideas. Little did she realize then, that as she continued her investigation, she was to come upon coincidences and finally facts that led to the entire truth of the story. In the letters of that well-known early explorer, Father De Smet, Dr. Hebard ran across an account of a meeting between him and Prince Paul of Wurtemberg, a famous traveller on the North American continent. Following this clue to St. Louis, it was revealed that the German Prince had secured a permit from William Clark of the expedition, then in charge of such government matters to explore the waters of the Missouri River. It had already been discovered that Clark had been educating the young Baptiste in St. Louis and it was possible that Baptiste had become his guide. Dr. Hebard employed a German historian to search among the royal Archives of his country. The story of Baptiste's sojourn in Germany was revealed and there was mention of a meeting between Sacajawea and the Prince in St. Louis! This is but a skeleton of the facts and inferences that were found, but they are sufficient to instance the result of suggestions made by the old granddaughter of Sacajawea in her
GRANDDAUGHTER OF SACAJAWEA
tepee on the Wind River Reservation. An amusing incident occurred during another interview with Barbara Myers, one of those incidents that flavors the experiences of the historian with the comic spirit. This time the interpreter and Dr. Hebard were in a car with the old Indian woman. Barbara told the interpreter that the beads she had been given the year before had disappeared. Miss Hebard reached in her pocket ?a place well supplied for such emergencies?and produced a new string, a short one, a style that had become popular since the last visit. Barbara took the beads but looked a bit town-cast. Seeing this the doner brought out a longer string which the old woman took with very evident delight. When the car stopped at the end of the village street, Barbara jumped out in a flash and ran down toward her waiting friends, her beads held high, her: staff swinging riotously with her uneven and hurried gait. Such agility and delight at ninety was as rare as it was funny and pathetic.
THE chance element, the hazard of loss connected with this work is heart-breaking sometimes. Dr. Hebard was particularly fortunate in being able to interview Susan Perry and Barbara Myers before they died. But there were records beyond recall, destroyed too soon, which would have helped immeasurably in the reconstruction of the lives of both Sacajawea and her son, Baptiste. By way of illustration, there was the loss of the leather wallet that the Indians remembered Sacajawea carrying always with her. It was known that in this wallet she had letters from Lewis and Clark and from other eminent people such as Brigham Young. These papers would have identified her beyond question and perhaps would have thrown new light on her activities. But in accordance with Shoshone customs this wallet had been buried with Bazil in 1886, Bazil being the last of the trio. When permission was recently granted to unearth it. The damp ground had destroyed all the writing although evidences of the paper still remained and the wallet was in fair preservation. A tragic loss, but just one of the many the historian has to face. From the tragic to the comic is a long step but they intermingle promiscuously, it seems, when gathering material from people as interesting as the Indians: Dick Washakie, the son of the famous Chief Washakie, had just given Dr. Hebard a valuable interview, and, as a token of appreciation, she had asked him to come to the store at the old Fort to choose something that he would like to take home to his tepee. Inside the merchant's domain he pointed to a basket of Tokay grapes. In farewell the two of them shook hands. A little old Indian man had been watching this procedure before him with great interest. The moment Dick had gone out he approached Dr. Hebard, offered his hand and said, "Shake," looking significantly at the grapes. She gave him a bunch of the fruit and a hand-shake with much amusement. But the episode had not yet ended. Later, in the Post Office, she came upon the old Indian again. Eagerly he came forward with his hand outstretched, the inveterate beggar! Of course, not all the information on Sacajawea came from the Shoshones. Some old-timers had known her and contributed their bit to the picture. In a letter from Tom Rivington, there is a paragraph that gives an unforgettable and lovely image of the Indian woman who had guided Lewis and Clark to the Pacific. He wrote:* "She never liked to stay or live where she could not see the mountains, for them she called home. For the unseen spirit dwelt in the hills, and a swift running creek could preach a better sermon for her than any mortal could have done. Every morning she thanked the spirits for anew day. She worshiped the white
*Sacajawea. By Grace Raymond Hebard, Arthur H. Clark, 1933. Page 242. Reproduced by permission of the author.
flowers that grew at the snow line on the sides of the tall mountains, for, as she said, she sometimes believed that they were the spirits of little children that had gone away, but reappeared every spring to gladden the pathway of those now living.'
FROM Indians, old trappers, Missionaries, Indian agents and records in the archives, Dr. Grace Raymond Hebard has gathered together a great sheaf of facts and memories. These she compiled, after almost thirty years of labor, into a volume on Sacajawea, the expedition papoose, the French husband, and others closely related to her. Dr. Hebard handled the new red volume with a gesture of affectionate regret at its completion. "I have really lived in a state of suspense," she said, "from the time I began work on Sacajawea until the book was published. Never a day came but there was the anticipation and often the gratification of finding some clue, some new fact that helped to solve the question of Sacajawea's fate." This is the ninth book she has had published, but its long gestation period has given it a preference over the others in her affection. Dr. Hebard is an indefatigable worker in western history. It is a commentary on our youth as a nation that we tend to underestimate the value of historical research. We are interested in the startling disclosures, of course, but we are perhaps still too near to the events of our nation's founding to realize the importance of preserving the details. To the investigators?very often little known?who go steadily on, collecting, compiling and publishing, we owe a great debt, and an appreciation of their efforts. It is worthwhile to go adventuring into the past with them!