Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon JULY?Now is golden summer with its mystic call to the great out doors. MADAM SCHUMANNHEINK, the singer, Caroline Miller, the novelist, and Amelia Earhart, the aviator, are among 13 prominent women who received honorary degrees from Oglethorpe University last May. MRS. LILLIAN M. GILBRETH of New York has been made professor of management of engineering at Purdue University. She is the first woman appointed to the teaching staff of a school of engineering. [ CUISE Y. ROBISON, President of National Women's Relief Society, has proven a valuable member of Utah's new state welfare board. She is the only woman on the board. EVA LE GALLIENNE'S declaration that "'only after ten years experience on the stage does one really begin to act," is called her "slight to youth." Jane Cowl, Elizabeth Bergner and Phillip Meredith are among a number of the really fine actors who support her contention. GRACE MOORE sang in a short operatic season in London in honor of the King's silver jubilee. PRINCESS JULIANA of Holland is reported engaged to Prince Carl Johan of Sweden. INGRID, Princess of Sweden and Crown Princess of Denmark, after the solemn marriage ceremony drove to her mother's burial place and laid there her myrtle wreath, and bouquet of lilies of the valley. The tender sentiment of this lovely princess was evident all through the wedding service. She wore her mother's bridal dress and veil, and carefully kept orange blossoms. Her only ornament a wreath of myrtle, while among her costly gifts lay a 17th century brooch of diamonds and pearls once owned by the father of Frederic the Great, the gift of King Gustaf, a modern diamond brooch, the gift of Prince Gustaf Adolph, and a sapphire pendant, the gift of King George V of England. FRAU KAUS, German author, has written the biography of Catharine II, Empress of Russia. The book is tense and thrilling from cover to cover and is a fine interpretive portrait. It is one of the most outstanding books in recent literature. KATHARINE SEABURY cryptically remarks in the preface to her new book, 'The Fun of Having Children," "It is rather adventurous of one who is merely a mother to write about bringing up children when the world is full of child experts." The book is well worth reading and full of wise deductions, nevertheless, though written by a "mere mother." RACHEL FIELDS' new book, "Time Out of Mind," is another interesting saga of New England life with a setting among the shipbuilders of the Maine coast. ANNE BRIDGE, Esther Forbes, Vicki Baum, Helen Simpson, Angela Thirkell, Madelon Inlofs (a Netherlander) are among the popular women novelists offering new books this year for summer reading.