Mathematics in Pioneer Homes By Jean Cox "When I can count forty may I reel the yarn?" "May I measure the gallon of milk for Uncle John when I can count four?" "May I use the steel yards to weigh carpet rags?" HESE and countless other requests of the children in the "big house" to participate in the usual grown-up activities showed the almost constant need for practical mathematics. Aunt Alice Hardy expressed it when she made the statement, "Our life was full of mathematics. We had to know and put into practice positive information regarding daily living. There wasn't a day, scarcely an hour when some form of mental arithmetic wasn't needed. "At "the big house," she continued, as well as in other pioneer homes of sixty years or more ago, it was necessary to know the number of pounds of wool for a yard of cloth, the number of knots to a skein, and the number of threads in a knot." When asked to be more specific, she continued, '""For some of our clothing we had to begin with unwashed wool. It took 5 lbs. Of wool from the fleece to make one lb. Of rolls. It took 14 Ibs. Of fine soft twisted yarn for the woof for one yard of linsey. If wool were used for warp it was hard twisted, frequently, however, fine cotton yarn was substituted. In a skein, she continued, there are ten knots of yarn." "Times change," she commented, "information necessary for daily living when I was a girl seems very strange to the present generation. Few women today know that fifteen knots of yarn were required for one yard of linsey. Probably not one woman in twenty-five knows that there are forty threads in a knot of yarn and that knots are measured by the revolutions of the reel as the yarn is carried from the spindle of the spinning wheel. As each knot was wound off, the thread separating the knots was crossed and another forty revolutions counted. To the careful worker, interruptions while reeling yarn were not considered good form." When I was a girl, work was not only considered necessary but also an accomplishment. All my life, she repeated, I wanted to work and have always found joy in it. I wasn't more than thirteen when I went over to "Carder Jones," and bargained for one pound of rolls. When I returned one-half of my first effort in spinning, he made the comment, "You will be a good spinner." That was music to my ears, as our family didn't give much praise, although we were always proud of each other's achievements. In dyeing mathematics were also important, as the relationship of strength of the dye to pounds of yarn determined the shade or hue. The proportion of mordant, which interpreted, was usually salt or vinegar used to set the color, also required careful estimates. It mattered little whether these were measured by spoonsful, quart cups, or by the housewives' original measuring sticks, fingers, or handfuls, measurements mean proportions, whether the unit is large or small. A pinch may be almost as accurate as the present teaspoonfuls. Subconsciously, when working with different materials, 424 which make finished products, certain standards of measurements or proportions are set up, whether it is the length of cloth from fingers to nose, or the amount of flour required _ for seven loaves of bread. Setting up a loom represented computations, as the actual length of the finished cloth could not vary much from the desired length. For certain uses the width of the woven fabric varied several inches, which necessitated careful estimates of required yarns for warp and woof. Women skilled in the art of weaving were able to complete the piece according to estimate with little loss of warp threads. More careful estimates were required for plaids and checks. Frequently one member of the family was both designer and mathematician, whose responsibility it was to figure out yarn requirements for interesting stripes, checks and plaids. Some of these plaids were indeed beautiful, with the backgrounds of blues, reds, or purples, with hair line or wider stripes of orange, green, yellow, or brighter blue. The dyeing requirements were also carefully computed. In these more elaborate weaves, shorter lengths were woven, as the desire for distinctive dress existed then as now. It was rather an interesting mathematical problem to figure to a nicety the knots of yarn required for-the different colors. PIN money as well as clothing money was earned through practice of the home-crafts. The most usual was spinning and knitting. Men's socks were the popular medium of exchange for dress materials, trimmings, and shoes. Yarn for these was frequently earned by spinning on shares. A spinner usually received one-half of the yarn spun. A skilled spinner often spun five skeins in a day. Occasionally a fast worker spun ten skeins in a day. It might be interesting computation to find out how many miles of walking was required for spinning one skein of yarn. Aunt Alice recently made the comment, "It wasn't really hard work for us girls in "the big house," as we usually placed the heads of spinning wheels in the center of the upstairs hall and then as we came together, we visited or listened to reading aloud. Very often, we sang as we worked back and forth in unison. Spinning time was a happy time with us, for it meant new wool dresses for us, and underwear for the men folks." One of the best means of earning money was knitting socks for. Men working in' mining camps. One pound of yarn was usually sufficient to knit one pair of socks. The knitted socks were sold for 50c a pair. Frequently the pay was in trade. When fingers flew one pair of socks was knitted in a day. These were usually sold in dozen lots of assorted sizes. With the variations in size, it was necessary to change the number of stitches in setting up the sock, as well as vary the length of the foot of the sock, for heels of socks yarn was often doubled and twisted, in some cases heels were knitted double. For dress up and special occasions, women's hose were made of finer yarns. Frequently fancy knitting or striping was done. Sometimes yarn was dyed for hose and dress material in the same dye vat. For summer time, cotton hose were used. These were hand knitted from cotton purchased in the skein. Hat making also required mathematics, as the hat maker in a family could tell the amount of straw braid required for a hat of an approximate size. If a mixed effect was desired, a certain proportion of the straw would be dyed. For finer hats, straw was split by using a straw splitter.
MATHEMATICS IN PIONEER HOMES
MAKING of carpets required different computations. Setting up looms for designated number of yards, necessitated accurate figuring and measuring. If a striped warp effect were desired, the number of skeins had to be different, colors also had to be determined. Skilled weavers could tell almost to a ball the number of pounds of rags required for a carpet. Each length had to be measured carefully and an inch or two of carpet warp or yarn woven between each strip as this made a better hem than the heavier rags. The number of pounds of rags per yard varied not only with the size of the strip, but also with the number of warp threads. Where carpets were striped with rags, careful measurements were necessary to not only have stripes match, but also to estimate required pounds of different colored rags. Careful measuring was required to have the carpet just cover the room. Variations of two to six inches in the width of strip were frequently required in order to have the carpet fit the desired floor without the labor of folding under several inches on sides of carpet.
IN the making of quilts many computations were required. The desired length and width of the quilt was the basis for slight variation in different patterns. Here are some problems required for the quilts in Aunt Alice's trousseau. The amounts of material for a blue and yellow compass quilt, which after fifty years of careful use, is one of the treasured possessions of the granddaughters: One quilt. One nine-inch star quilt made from cotton scraps. One flannel quilt not pieced. One delaine quilt with blocks of plain material set together with strips of tiny triangles of several colors carefully worked out as to arrangement. A delaine quilt with lambs "wool bat was a coveted possession? comparable to a satin cover down quilt today.
TROUSSEAU building then as now meant hours of purposeful planning and careful work. Aunt Hattie Reid tells of spinning wool for 25 yards of linsey for a bureau which cost $7.00. She also earned money by spinning to buy a bedside table or stand. In addition to the usual six quilts, there were usually six linsey sheets, dresses, underwear and household linen, etc., which were made in the home from material for which were often exchanged socks and yarn.,
STANDARDS of workmanship were high. No one was content with less than the best they could do. Satisfactory accomplishments in different crafts in a way reflected personal standards of honor. More exact measurements were demanded for finer pieces, on which the comment was frequently made, "That is an honest pair of socks," or, "That is an honest piece of furniture." Whether or not the great need for creating subsistence motivated desire for work in the pioneer family, the fact remains that creating activities within the home, business or farm, stimulated interest and made work both desirable and pleasurable. One charming woman of the earlier days recently made the statement, "All my life I have wanted to work and I can always find something to do." How the other half lives has always been an interesting challenge to those interested in human welfare. How the previous generation has solved their problems is equally challenging. If the other aunts and uncles of the "big house" might speak, a volume would be needed to tell of the comings and goings, the joys and sorrows of the group who, in the evening, sang favorite songs to the accompaniment of grandfather's flute.