Jane Addams By Amy W. Evans
HOW fitting it was that the friends of Jane Addams came to her beloved Hull House to bid her the last farewell. Men and women, who in their youth had been brought under the influence of that "House of Hope," came with their wide-eyed children and grandchildren to gaze with reverence upon the face of her whom they had so much reason to call blessed. It was especially fitting that among the beautiful flowers that surrounded her as she lay in state in the courtyard that there should be the faces of children, for Jane Addams loved children. Much of her life's work was devoted to their welfare. She caught the spirit and significance of youth. Her understanding of the dreams, the urges, and the needs of the adolescent was profound and compassionate.
FROM the beginning Hull House made provision for the care, education, and protection of the young. There were the kindergarten, the day nursery, the clubs for boys and those for girls, classes in the arts and crafts, the gymnasium and the recreation hall. But perhaps to the heart of youth the most precious thing was this rare understanding that they always found there. It was this rare understanding that made it possible for Jane Addams to perform the work she did in making the world better and safer for children and young people. The girl from the overcrowded tenement home who, bubbling with vitality, breaks from parental control, seeking joy and happiness, not realizing the dangers that beset such a course; the boy asking more of life than the monotony of modern industry, who goes out to find adventure and who comes in conflict with society?these were understood and helped in the search for a safe and wholesome outlet for their natural desires and energies. These are her own words regarding the general lack of understanding of young people and children, "There is a dense ignorance on the part of the average citizen as to the requirements of youth, and a persistent blindness on the part of educators to youth's most obvious needs. The young people are over-borne by their own undirected and misguided energies."
FROM Hull House came a movement fore better Juvenile Court laws, and the attitude toward the offending child was greatly modified for good through this. Miss Addams and her co-workers labored for, and finally succeeded in the establishment of the first playgrounds and swimming pools in Chicago. She was ever an advocate of wholesome play for children and believed the playground to be a training field for good citizenship. Every community, she thought, should provide facilities where children and youth could find opportunity for an expression of their natural desires, urges, and energies. The fact that that invincible love of play and pleasure in the young was allowed to be exploited and commercialized for gain aroused her fighting spirit. She seems to have possessed '"'youth's divine impatience" with society's general disregard of this condition. Therefore she studied the dance halls, the cheap theaters, the music
JANE ADDAMS
and other forms of amusements, so that she was ready with first hand information in her work to change them for the better. In speaking of music she says, "We are informed by high authority that there is nothing in the environment to which youth so keenly responds as to music and yet the streets, the vaudeville shows, the five cent theaters are full of the most blatant and vulgar songs. The trivial and obscene words, the meaningless and flippant airs run through the heads of hundreds of young people for hours at a time while they are engaged in monotonous factory work. We totally ignore that ancient connection between music and morals which was so long insisted upon by philosophers as well as poets." Of the theater which she calls "The House of Dreams" she says in her Spirit of Youth, "Nothing is more touching than an encounter with a group of children and young people who are emerging from a theater with the magic of the play still thick upon them. They look up and down the familiar street scarcely recognizing it and quite unable to determine the direction of home. From a tangle of 'make believe' they gravely scrutinize the real world which they are so reluctant to reenter reminding one of the absorbed gaze of a child who is groping his way back from fairy-land whither the story has completely transported him," and further she says, '""There is no doubt that what they hear there, flimsy and poor as it often is, easily becomes their actual moral guide." From her experience at Hull House she knew just how much the theater meant in the lives of young people. She tells of many tragic happenings that were a result of the influence and love of the "House of Dreams." Not that she wished to keep young persons from the shows, but she wanted shows of the right kind, and when she recognized the importance of a thing her plan was to work for it. It was the same with regard to dance halls and other places where recreation was commercialized.
EVER against child labor she did all she could for its abolishment. In her Newer Ideals of Peace we find this, "We are forced to believe that child labor is a National problem even as public education is a National duty. The children of Alabama, Rhode Island, and Pennsylvania belong to the Nation quite as much as they belong to each State, and the Nation has an interest in the children at least in relation to their industrial efficiency quite as it has an interest in enacting protective tariffs for preservation of American industry." In the same volume she makes this plea, "Let us realize before it is too late that in this age of iron, of machine tending and subdivided labor, we need as never before the untrammeled and inspired activity of youth. To cut it off from thousands of working children is a most perilous undertaking and endangers the very industry to which they have been sacrificed." She courageously used her influence in behalf of legislation which would protect children and women in industry, and much of social legislation in this direction was due to her. Jane Addams in her appreciation and understanding seems to have caught the very spirit of youth and her own words express beautifully how she loved and valued it. "Youth is so vivid an element in life that unless it is cherished all the rest is spoiled," and again she says, "The most praiseworthy journey grows dull and leaden unless companioned by youth's irridescent dreams. Not only that but the mature of each generation run a grave risk of putting their efforts in a futile direction, in a blind alley as it were, unless they can keep in touch with the youth of their own day, and know at least the trends in which eager dreams are driving them?those dreams that fairly buffet our faces as we walk the city streets." She was one of those rare persons who recognized and understood these dreams. They did not buffet her face in vain.
FOREVER active in promoting social justice?she was called the "patron saint of the underdog"'?she had many interests. Her name was always listed among the great of our day. The Nobel prize was awarded her in 1931 for her work for world peace. Much of her time in the later years of her life was spent in this field in which she received world-wide recognition. Jane Addams seems to have possessed those elements of greatness which enabled her to be compassionate to the unfortunate and helpless without condescension, to see the sinner aside from his sin and to recognize his brotherhood and his need of human sympathy and understanding. She was great also in that universal mother love which extended to the children and young people of every race. Youth, the world over, has lost a fervent, wise friend and advocate in her passing.
Jane Addams By Minnie I. Hodapp
A diamond of many facets was her soul Shining with serene effulgence On one divine altar: Consecration.
One consuming desire: to do good; Faith in the abundant life, here and now; Confidence in our Lord's beatitudes.
Charity?the Superior Virtue? Made to shine like a circling sun, Humanizing the hearts of men.