Five Babes in the Woods By C. Frank Steele
ONCE upon a time?not many months ago?five babes were born. They were born in the backwoods of Ontario, Canada, and today they are the most famous babies in the world. These '"'Five Babes in the Woods" are the Dionne quintuplets of Callander, Ontario. And their names ?Yvonne, Annette, Cecile, Emilie, Marie. And are they cute? I am told they are the cuddliest, merriest, most fascinating group of youngsters one could hope to see. And what a breathless picture for a mother! Mothers are mighty thrilled over one babe?none but a mother can understand that mysterious thrill of motherhood! But multiply that by five and what do you have? The mothers must answer. What man is there who could, who would dare suggest an answer? These charming little French-Canadian girls came into the world over a year ago. And they were not born in any hospital nor in a home with all the desirable layette and facilities, accommodations and professional care that the modern stork catches glimpses of as he makes his appearance. Far fromit. These five little "Cinderella-girls of science"?for such they have become? were born in the small, dingy and cluttered living room of their humble parents' home. They were born in a backwoods cabin. And they came two months ahead of the proper time also. And yet they lived?the five of them. And they are big, fat, healthy babies today. And the fact that the quintuplets are alive and thriving is the thing that has amazed the medical world. The birth of quintuplets that morning in May last year in an obscure Ontario town startled the world. It became in a day one of the great "news breaks" of 1934. Sleepy, obscure Callander suddenly found itself on the front pages of great metropolitan newspapers and millions of words of '"'copy" told of the amazing event. The world was doing homage to motherhood and childhood. Verily, "a child" or to be more precise, five of them, was "leading the world" into a new vision of child life and child welfare. The midst of all the hubub over the quints a chubby country doctor went quietly about his work which happened to be caring for his five precious charges. Dr. Allan Roy Dafoe is Callander's doctor. He's of the old-fashioned family doctor type, a general practitioner, and it was just in the routine of the day that he made that momentous call at the Dionne cottage. He tells us that he found the mother in a half-dying condition and as the babies were not expected at that time there was not even a little shirt or dress or stocking awaiting them. There wasn't even a crib. But the family doctor, accustomed to "roughing it," made the best of things and so the five babes were born and placed one by one in a borrowed basket and covered with blankets warmed at the rude kitchen stove. Dr. Dafoe admits that all he could say, all he had time to say, was "Gosh!" when five infants presented themselves.
THE fight of Dr. Allan Dafoe to save the quintuplets ranks as an achievement quite as important as
DIONNE QUINTUPLETS, DR. A. R. DAFOE AND NURSES
the birth of the five children. And the scientific world was quick to recognize that fact. He has been honored at home and abroad and it would be no surprise to his countrymen to see his name listed among those honored by the King. His visit to New York was a triumph and when subjected to the barrage of questioning for which New York reporters are famous the "country doctor" from Canada could say little more than: "They are dear little girls ?they are pudgy as young puppies." His quiet, homely, cheery way, his modesty and naturalness was something new for blase New York and when he gave an address at Carnegie hall a vast audience hung breathlessly on every word of his amazing story. He visited the night clubs and the hospitals, chatted with Sally Rand and Walter Winchell, paid his respects to the President at Washington and saw the sights of the capitol. Doctor Dafoe enjoyed it all immensely. It was a great holiday and he was proud to tell the kind-hearted American neighbors about "his babies." But when they wanted him to remain in New York, he replied: "No, I'm only a country doctor, and I'm going back where I belong. A. Man is smartest when he does what he knows best and doesn't fool around with things he doesn't know anything about." So he went back to Callander and his quintuplets. And he found them still thriving under the very finest care that the world of medicine and nursing could give them. For the kiddies now have a hospital of their own, have silver chains to identify them, have special nurses to care for them, have the best of wardrobes, and what not. They had one chance in many millions to survive and thanks to modern science and their clean rugged French-Canadian ancestty and parentage they are alive and thriving.
THEY celebrated their first Christmas in a blizzard. That is, a blizzard was raging outside the nursery. But Santa Claus came laden with gifts from all parts of the continent for the famous five sisters. After they had been given their daily nap out of doors?cold weather has not frightened Dr. Dafoe in his resolve that the quints must have the air?the parcels were opened. There were cane candies, chocolates, nuts, a wealth of little toys, rag dolls bigger than the babies themselves, also clothing and other gifts. One large furniture manufacturing company in the United States forwarded them five cunning high-chairs. These chairs were of the finest workmanship and finish and could be converted into ordinary chairs when not in use by the babies. The quints, of course, could not have the candies or the rag toys so they were duly handed over to the five other children of Mr. And Mrs. Oliva Dionne. What a "break" those five got! The story of the Dionne babies carries a moving tribute to this brave little mother in a backwoods Canadian town. She bore them and unfortunately in the ovation given her remarkable little brood and _ the "country doctor" who accomplished the "impossible," her share in the achievement has been little noted. The extraordinary contribution to science of Dr. Allan Roy Dafoe typifies the country doctor everywhere, honest, patient, unselfish in his devotion to duty.