[Vol50 | March 1963 | Page 208 | Home | Make a Zabaton Jennie | R. Scott]
(Zabaton Pattern —- Zola McGhie, Bonneville Stake) (Illustrations for Zabaton — Gloria Hermanson, Bountiful Stake) MAKE A ZABATON SEW 2 PILLOW FILLING i. CONTEMPLATION In order to improve the mind, we ought less to learn, than to contemplate (Descartes). AVE you ever thought of inviting a group of friends to your home during a snowstorm to gaze at the beauty of the snowflakes? Undoubtedly, this may sound like a bizarre idea. Noting the intricate pattern of each individual snowflake, however, could be one of life's richest, esthetic rewards. To be thoroughly appreciated, the snowflakes should be watched under a light. If the guests have on dark coats, and the snowflakes alight on this background, the magical laciness of each flake can be more thoroughly enjoyed. Since most of us have forgotten the joy that comes through observing quiet beauty, such an evening may sound Bohemian. But, in Japan, parties to watch a full moon rise, or to view the first blossoms on a tree, are common. Emotions, which are seldom expressed, stir within the guests as they watch the wondrous light of the moon evolve from a small lemon slice into a luminous sphere. 'The moon's slow ascent is watched in silence. When it is fully risen, the host often distributes pencil and paper so that each guest may compose a poem telling of his response as he watched the graceful sight. Henry David Thoreau felt this inner need for developing the illusive 210 act of contemplation. He felt it so strongly that he spent two years living in the wilds of Walden Pond. He once said, "The mass of men lead lives of quiet desperation." Thoreau, individualist as he was, escaped any desperation he may have felt by his intimate communtication with nature. He wasn't content to live as most of us do, by mere actions. He wanted to learn about life; he wanted to understand and enjoy life. He once said, "I wanted to live deep and suck out all the marrow of life." Thoreau felt he could best savor every morsel of life by disentangling himself from the cumbersome material things that cloud our vision and make life's goals at times seem hazy. 'To achieve this goal, he lived primitively, surviving on the food that he alone provided for himself. His fare was simple: berries that he gathered, or game that he shot. His home was a hut that he built at a cost of $28.12%, where the light from heaven filtered in through the cracks twenty-four hours a day. N the endlessly oscillating world of today, complete isolation of this nature would be impractical, if not impossible, but there should be a brief period daily when we can be alone to listen to the yearnings of our hearts. 'This period should be Is Realization a time of quiet evaluation and selfdiscovery. We might listen to classical music, study a painting, or read a fine piece of literature. The important thing is the thought processes that accompany these acts, not merely to look with our eyes, but to understand with our souls. Many of our great philosophers have found their period of contemplation can best be accomplished while walking. The Chinese have a wonderful proverb that says: "Man who walks through countryside sees much more than man who runs.' Sometimes we become guilty of running through life, trying to accomplish so much that we die before we ever have a chance to live. Try escaping from the hubbub of the crowded streets by visiting a secluded hillside, a grove, or a meadow. Learn to pause and absorb the beauty of your surroundings. Study each flower, shrub, or insect rather than merely glancing at these marvelous microcosms. Observe how many leaves a plant Joan H. Haskins has, try to determine the exact shade of the flower, and note the structure of the center of the bud. We go through life snatching fragments of beauty, never pausing to study its intricate forms.