[Vol50 | March 1963 | Page 217 | Poem | Praise Is a Prayer | Margery S. Stewart]
Lambert Hills of Scotland, Near Stranraer Kennedy Castle Grounds of Lord Stair Praise Is a Prayer Margery S. Stewart The stars hold conversations in the night, Singing of delight For being, finding it awesome to exist, Much less to move in silver-winged flight. The gulls are glad for their brief Soarings, the fragile leaf For seasons, fields hold in greening palm The tender sheaf. Small things praise by acts, the ant, In the green comfort of the plant Moves in minute obedience. There is a gratitude in the sea's deep chant. Lost in vast hungers and confusions, I Forget the songs that I might praise thee by. 217 1 Was PRR Es RWS RA SN¥ Annie Atkin Tanner ENCES stand out in my memory of childhood days more than any other inanimate thing. They seem to be a part of the days I like to remember, and I hate to see them go, ugly as some of them were. One by one, the old fences have gone, and it is like old memories being burned alive—a very unhappy experience. After long years of absence from my home town, I returned one day in spring, to find many things had changed. The place seemed half undressed with so many friendly fences gone. The houses that used to look serenely down at me over tall fences, now seemed to be boldly staring. I walked down the once familiar sidewalk which led me to my old home. It appeared strangely stark and lonesome and a little bit apologetic without the weathered, browngray, picket fence which, in other days, seemed to warn any intruder not to enter. As a barefoot child I ran along the narrow plank to which each 218 picket was nailed. Each moment I rather expected to be pierced by one of the defiant lances, and my mother often told me that some day my dress might catch on one of the pickets and I would be hanged. The fact that I wasn't, has always convinced me that sometimes our guardian angels work overtime. The neighbor on the north of our home had a much more enticing fence than ours. It had a long narrow board running along the top of it. 'This fence was a temptation to all the neighborhood children. It practically invited us to "come aboard" and run. Sometimes we fell off, but this was just a challenge to us to try our skill again. We were often scolded and threatened by the exasperated owner of the fence, but children are not easily discouraged. The cedar-post fence was a strange species. The posts stood straight and tall and close together; they were strong and stolid and seemed to dare anyone to laugh at them. Sister Smith lived alone in her home a block south of our house, which was set in the back of her lot. Around the house stood a post fence, a mighty fortress, which seemed to reach to the sky, when I was very young. It was my duty, once or twice a week, to take down to our neighbor a brown pitcher of cold buttermilk or a blue bowl of vegetable soup. Not once did I ever go to the gate but always squeezed perilously through the narrow space between the posts, often spilling a little of the buttermilk or soup, and sometimes scratching my back on the rough posts. The fence on the way to my Aunt Aggie's was built of beautiful, red sandstones from the lovely hills nearby. My cousins and I loved to play on that fence. There was adventure there on the top. The rocks trembled under us and often one tumbled down, as we jumped from one rock to another. One day I was resting on the top of the wall and I looked down below. There, between two rocks, was a huge, gray lizard peeking up at me with his lidless eyes. I jumped from the wall in terror, just as the lizard slithered down and ran across my bare feet. From that day on the charm of the red-rock wall was ended. HE river slowly meandered through our valley, about two miles away from my grandfather's home. In pioneer days he carried willows on his back to weave the fence between him and his neighbors, which kept them good friends for forty years.