[Vol50 | March 1963 | Page 216 | Home | "We Can't Be Perfect" Christie | Lund Coles]
The others can be made in the body from ; "We ( 't Be Perfect" Christie Lund Coles F'TEN we hear someone justify his faults by saying, "Well, we can't be perfect. If we were perfect, we wouldn't be here. Nobody is perfect." And often we justify ourselves in the same way. It is so easy to make excuses, to find reasons for our imperfections and eae Yet, what did Jesus say? He said, "Be ye... Perfect, even as your Father... In heaven is perfect." Did he mean half-perfect, part good? Did he mean to be good on Sunday and disobedient the rest of the week? Did he mean to pay our tithes and offerings, but live as we please otherwise? Did he mean to indulge in our particular vices, saying, "So-and-so does worse than this"? I don't believe so. I suppose no one can be completely perfect within the limitations of the flesh, and under the pressures on all sides of us. But we can try. And, if we try hard enough, we will achieve just that much perfection. Right this moment we can start on the road to perfection. We can put the admonition, "Be ye perfect," in our hearts and work at it day after day, weeding out insidious little faults — the tendency to gossip, to make a slighting remark — and put virtues in their place. Even if the unfortunate things we say are true, we are saying the things we think, and it is time to start thinking of happier things for our own sake, as well as for that of our friends. We can nip a bad habit in the bud by thinking, I will not be dominated by this small thing. I will be free of it. We can start building up the positive side of the ledger, doing one small kindness a day, making a phone call, sending a card, a letter to someone shut in, or lonely, or ill. We can listen to someone else's troubles instead of talking of our own. We can give thanks for all our blessings, purifying ourselves by the act of voicing gratitude. We can pray unceasingly, and follow the inner promptings which whisper to all, if they will but listen to them. We can love more. We can forgive more. We can even forgive ourselves after true, sincere repentance, with all that entails. Many people have difficulty because they cannot forgive themselves, cannot reconcile their Seem of guilt with the ideals they set for themselves. The Lord has said, "... Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow" (Isaiah: 1: 18). I think we can all come much nearer to being perfect. And when we do — and surely without one mite of self-righteousness — people will like and admire us more, and respect us. Further, we will like and admire ourselves, as well as respect ourselves. It is a challenge to each one. I hope we can accept it. 216 or gt, hae. BOP Nae ie eo Paw Harold M.