[Vol50 | March 1963 | Page 220 | Home | Make It With Hamburger and Save Janet | W. Breeze]
MAKE IT WITH HAMBURGER AND SAVE Fruited Meat Loaf To your own basic one-pound meat loaf combination, add % cup drained fruit cocktail, "% cup crushed pineapple, with juice, and % cup raisins. Bake at 350° for one hour. About 15 minutes before done, arrange bacon strips on top of loaf, then continue baking. F ont Hamburaer Cottadae q YJAACA Pie J 4 - Sauté lightly one large onion, chopped, and 1 pound ground beef. Season to taste and stir in 2 tbsp. Flour. Line a 9" pie tin with uncooked biscuit dough crust and fill with hamburger-onion mixture. Fold one cup small curd cottage cheese into 2 slightly beaten eggs; spread over hamburger and sprinkle with paprika. Bake for 30 minutes at 375°. Serve in wedges along with a colorful tossed salad. S cy Meat Balls 1 Ib. Ground beef 1 can (1 lb.) pineapple chunks and 7/2 tsp. Salt syrup "4 tsp. Ginger "4 ¢c. Brown sugar, firmly packed 1 egg 2 tbsp. Cornstarch 1 tsp. Water "% ¢. Vinegar "% ¢. Flour 2 green peppers, cut in strips 3 tbsp. Salad oil buttered hot noodles Season ground beef with salt and ginger; form lightly into 16 small balls; dip in egg, slightly beaten, with 1 tsp. Water, then in flour; sauté in salad oil in large frying pan, turning to brown all sides. Remove from heat; take out meat balls while making sauce in same pan. Drain syrup from pineapple and add water to it to make 1 cup; stir into drippings In pan. Stir in brown sugar mixed with cornstarch and vinegar. Heat, stirring constantly, until sauce thickens and boil 3 minutes. Arrange browned meat balls, pepper strips, and pineapple chunks in separate piles in pan; stir each gently to coat with sauce; cover. Simmer 10 minutes, or until heated through. Spoon over hot, buttered noodles. Serves 4. Indoor Barbecued Buraer Sauce "2 ¢. Salad oil 2 tsp. Salt "" c. Catsup 4 tbsp. Brown sugar 1 tbsp. Worcestershire sauce v4 C. Vinegar 1 tsp. Dry mustard 1 tsp. Paprika Combine all ingredients for sauce in large skillet. When mixture reaches boiling point, add 8 to 12 patties. Cover, reduce heat, and simmer 20 minutes. Serve on toasted buns. Hamburger-Spanish Rice 1 C. Taw rice 1 Ib. Ground beef 3 tbsp. Olive oil 2% c. Canned tomatoes 2 large onions, chopped fine 1 tsp. Salt 2 green peppers, chopped "4 tsp. Pepper 3 stalks celery, diced "% Ib. (1 c.) grated cheese 


 Wash rice well; then drain, and boil till tender in salted water. Drain well. Meanwhile heat olive oil in frying pan over low heat. Add onions, peppers, celery, and fry gently for 10 minutes. Add ground beef and sauté until lightly browned, stirring constantly to prevent burning of vegetables. Add tomatoes, cover, and cook 15 minutes longer. Combine with rice, and add salt, pepper, and all but % cup cheese. Mix well, and put in well-buttered casserole. Cover with remaining cheese and bake at 350° 25 minutes, or until cheese is melted and lightly brown. Serves 6 to 8. Main Dish Meat Roll 1% \bs. Ground beef 1% tsp. Salt ' Ib. Ground pork sausage dash of pepper 4 tbsp. Onion (sauted in 1 tbsp. ' ¢. Bread crumbs shortening ) 1 egg, beaten Heat oven to 350° F. Combine ingredients; mix thoroughly. Put on waxed paper; pat out in a sheet 14 inches long by 10 inches wide. Potato and Pea Stuffing 2 c. Mashed potatoes 1 tsp. Salt 1 can green pea soup, undiluted dash of pepper 1 egg, beaten Combine ingredients; mix well. Place on the meat and roll the meat mixture around stuffing. Remove wax paper. Bake in moderate oven for 1-1% hours at 350°. Serves 8. Budget Beef Pie Sauté % cup sliced onion and % pound hamburger until lightly brown. Add % tsp. Salt and 1 can condensed tomato soup. Pour into baking dish and cover with rolled biscuit dough. Bake in hot oven (450°) about 20 minutes. Turn upside down on plate. Can be stretched to 6 servings. Busy-Day Casserole % c. Chopped onions 2 tbsp. Prepared mustard 2 tbsp. Butter or substitute "2 tsp. Salt 1 Ib. Ground beef dash of pepper 1 can condensed vegetable soup 2'4 ¢. Water 1 ¢c. Water 2 c. Instant rice 2 tbsp. Catsup % tsp. Salt Sauté onions in butter until golden. Add meat and sauté until browned. Add soup, 1 Cc. Water, catsup, mustard, salt, and pepper. Mix well. Bring to a boil, then simmer 15 minutes. Meanwhile combine rice, water, and salt in saucepan. Cook according to package directions. I Add rice to meat in sauce. Mix and turn into 2-quart casserole. Sprinkle with buttered crumbs or grated cheese if desired. Put under broiler for 2 or 3 minutes. Serves 6. Surprise Patties Shape raw meat loaf into 8 patties. Place sliced cheese on 4 patties. Cover with second patty. Place strip of bacon around edge and hold with toothpick. Broil slowly 10 minutes on each side about 4 inches from heat. 222 p Lucy S. Guyas, Maker of Many Quilts ex Standley Guyas, Salmon, Idaho, has pieced and quilted more than a hundred quilts in the last sixteen years. More than forty of these beautiful quilts were made in the effective six-pointed Lone Star pattern (similar to the quilt which is folded across Sister Guyas' lap). Many other patterns, including the bowknot and double bow knot, and wedding ring patterns have been used in this long-time quiltmaking project. The materials have included cotton fabrics of many kinds, prints, plaincolored, stripes and checks, and also many types of rayon and satin materials, as well as taffetas and brocades. The colors have been beautifully contrasted, or blended, according to the artistic requirements of the pattern.