[Vol50 | March 1963 | Page 186 | Poem | Boy Wandering | Zara Sabin]
Boy Wandering Zara Sabin A scarce-two boy with a red wheelbarrow Plodding up the path Stops stock-still to watch a sparrow At the broad bird bath, Traipses on all eager-earnest; Then, on trusty toes, Lured aside by loveliness, Stoops to smell a rose. 186 MB:--. EVA MACARAEG MACAPAGAL, who has a medical degree from the University of Santa Tumas, is the First Lady of the Philippines, wife of President Diosdado Macapagal. Mother of two children, and an accomplished homemaker, Mrs. Macapagal contributes much time and energy to the health and economic welfare of the people of her country, being especially interested and helpful in projects of economic development. YRA KEEN, associate professor of paleontology and curator of malacology at Stanford University, California, is the author of a publication heralded by scientists as one of the most outstanding in its field, entitled "Marine Molluscan Genera of Western North America." One of a very few women trained in this field of science, Professor Keen has achieved a high rank for her accuracy and scholarship. She teaches Biological Oceanography at Stanford. IRSTEN FLAGSTAD, one of the most famous singers of Wagner's soprano roles, died December 9, 1962 in Oslo, Norway. LANCHE KENDALL McKEY, a Latter-day Saint, and a contributor to The Relief Society Magazine, has recently published a book of collected poems and verse plays called House of Dreams (Pageant Press). A daughter of Utah pioneers, Mrs. McKey achieved outstanding success as an actress under the name of Blanche Kendall, working with such leading men as J. H. Stoddart and William McKey, who later became her husband. ARGARET E. MURIE is the author of an unusually interesting travel book Two in the North, which recounts with "rare talent and sensitivity" three journeys which she made with her husband Olaus J. Murie into "the wild frontiers" of Alaska. The book, which describes in vivid detail the Koyukuk River Valley, the Old Crow River, and the Sheenjek Valley in the Brooks Range, is illustrated by Mr. Murie, a distinguished artist and naturalist. Mrs. Murie first went to Alaska with her parents when she was nine years old. She was the first woman t) graduate from the University of Alaska. Her present home is Moose, Wyoming, in the Jackson Hole country.