[Vol50 | March 1963 | Page 164 | Special Feature | The Law of Obedience Charlotte | A. Larsen]
[The Law of Obedience Charlotte A. Larsen]

The first law that God ever gave to man was the law of obedience. It was a commandment pure and simple. From obedience and submission spring all other virtues. Thus wrote Montaigne: "Obedience is the most basic principle of God. By obedience to God's laws, 164 we have the privilege of returning to our home with him." God gave his Only Begotten Son that we might live again by obedience to the plan of salvation. God the Father and his Son Jesus Christ recognized that in order for this mortal period of man's existence to be of benefit to him, there would have to be a plan and rules by which man could live and gain eternal life, and thus be assured of his return to the presence of the Lord. These rules are so rigid and specific in their nature that only by following them would man be able again to dwell in the presence of God. In addition, God gave to each one of us the most valuable gift that we now have or ever will have, free agency. We must never forget the responsibility that goes with such a great gift. The choice is with us constantly. The Lord promises us many blessings but they are predicated on obedience to law and the covenant. In the Doctrine and Covenants he states, "I, the Lord, am bound when ye do what I say; but when ye do not what I say, ye have no promise." Not only must we obey the Lord's commandments, we must teach our families to obey them. Does a true Latter-day Saint obey @lersenisialas only some of the commandments? Can we choose to pay tithing and fail to keep the Sabbath Day holy? Can we as parents and leaders teach our children to keep the Sabbath Day holy if we attend our meetings only once in awhile? Can we teach our children obedience to God's commandments if we obey only a portion of them? Can we obtain the promised blessings to the faithful if we take the liberty to justify or rationalize some of the things we do because someone else breaks the Jaw a little, or keeps only part of the Lord's commandments? 'The Lord will not judge us by others but only by ourselves and what we do. "If ye love me, keep my commandments," and if we do this for no other reason save he commanded it, we will be well along the road to immortality and eternal life. Then the windows of heaven will be opened and the blessings of heaven poured out so greatly that we will be unable to contain them. Let us look at the history of mankind and see what has happened when man ceases to obey. Look at the Israelites, the chosen people of God. After they were delivered from bondage, they forgot to keep his commandments and were forced to wander forty years in the wilderness to prepare themselves to enter into the promised land. Nephi, by obedience, was taught many things to enable his people to reach their promised land: the procuring of the sacred plates, the building of the ship, the sustaining of life during the trek through the wilderness. Also in our own Book of Mormon we have recorded the appearance of Christ to the people of this great land. He commanded and the people obeyed and peace reigned for 200 years. Sisters, we have a special obligation to be an example, not only an example of the believers but also of the doers. We have a special assignment in life. "Wherefore take unto you the whole armor of God, that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day." "Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven," I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. ETERNITY Earth and heaven portray a pattern of ever-changing events, yet never-changing in purpose. God is the same yesterday, today, and always. —V. Mildred Oyston 165 STRANGER AT NAZARETH small breeze soft and gentle stirred among the leaves of the olive trees, and overhead a warm, blue sky lay like a great oval ceiling above the greening earth. It was spring in Nazareth — spring with its peace and flowering beauty touching everything — everything, but Martha's heart. Standing at the window, unaware of the fresh wonder of the day, she knew only the weight of sorrow, overwhelming, pulling her into the dark depths of despair. I "You must try not to grieve so," Lucius had told her with a husband's tender concern. "You must keep yourself well for Lydia's sake." For Lydia — Martha smiled faintly thinking of her small granddaughter. Lydia was like one ray of bright sunshine in a dark world. For Lydia she must live and try to keep a 166 semblance of the youthful zest that had always been hers. A door opened then, and Martha turned to see the little Lydia looking up at her. She was a beautiful child, with soft, creamy skin, and deep brown eyes that expressed a kind of wistful longing, sensing a loss that her five years were unable to comprehend. "You didn't sleep," Martha said, her eyes tender on the child. The little one shook her head. "T rested with my eyes open, and I played with my Jasamine doll." Her face was suddenly worried. "Will my mother be coming home today?" "Not today, Lydia." Her voice was dull, but quietly controlled. It was the same answer she had given day after day since Lydia had been given to her keeping, but how could she explain to so young a child? Perhaps when Lydia was older she would understand, but not now. Leprosy — the very word chilled her to the bone. Fearful and scourging — it meant only heartbreak and misery; coming with an evil venom, destroying not only the aged and sickly, but the young and beautiful as well — Anna — her own lovely Anna — now stricken by its ravishes. Martha found it hard to go on living, knowing that Anna was an outcast — that Anna could not return. All the money that Lucius and she had in the treasury could 'not rid Anna of the dreadful I disease for which no doctor had I found a cure. Twice she had been to the place of desolation leaving food and clothing and hurrying away, not looking back; it was a living death. Could she have laid Anna in a cool, clean sepulcher, peace would have come at last, but this way there could be no I peace — not ever. Determinedly, she tore her thoughts away from her grief; a little girl stood beside her. Lydia's father was in Jerusalem with the Roman army. Lucius and she must be father and mother to the child. "Let's go to the mount, Grandmother," the little one implored. ARTHA nodded. The mount, a low hill behind their home, _was a pleasant place for an idle hour. From the mount you could look over the white stone houses of Nazareth basking in the spring sunlight to Mount Tabor and beyond to the STRANGER AT NAZARETH Valley of Jezreel. It was a quiet place of retreat which Martha had often sought. "All right, little one," she consented, "we shall go to the mount." Together they went to the kitchen to make a lunch, because for Lydia a lunch was the most important part of going to the mount. From a shelf Martha took a small, round basket in which she put a loaf of barley bread, a square of honey comb, and some little fig cakes, covering it with a clean, white napkin. Over the napkin she laid a brown paper on which she placed a bright-colored scarf that she was making and Lydia's Jasamine doll. From a low cot in the dining room she took a soft, blue robe to sit on. Hand in hand Lydia and she crossed the olive grove and walked along the quiet path to the mount. Pausing a moment, Martha looked back across the wide vineyard, beyond the spacious stone house. Lucius and she were among the most prosperous of Nazareth, but gladly they would have given it all — the flocks and vineyard — the costly home furnishings, to have Anna back. The mount was green and inviting, with the feel of spring everywhere. By the side of a palm tree Martha laid the woolen robe and they sat down in the warm sunlight. From the basket she took the wooden doll and the fig cakes for Lydia, and her nimble fingers were soon occupied with her handwork.
