[Vol50 | March 1963 | Page 212 | Fiction | Eventide Frances | C. Yost]
EVENTIDE Frances C. Yost: I es Sharpton glanced at _) the clock. It was getting late and Charles hadn't come home. She shouldn't have let the children talk her into staying up to see their daddy. "Some women are just plain lucky to have a man on an eighthour day. My Charlie puts in ten to twelve hours, and I put in an hour before he leaves, and two hours after he gets home. And that isn't counting the night shift when the children call for water or have a stomachache." Connie stopped short. She didn't want to start talking to herself. Just then the door opened and Charlie walked in. Larry and Mary rushed to their father and wrapped their arms and legs about him. Poor, tired Charlie, he looked as if he had been ensnared by an octopus. She was proud to be the mother of twins, but no one who hadn't had the experience of rearing twins could possibly believe the mischief two the same age could concoct. Charlie was smiling as he fondled the children, but when he looked up at Connie, she knew it had been one of those off days. She wouldn't ask how things had gone for him. It was best not to mention it. 'This salesman work on a commission was hard on a man, and for that matter hard on his wife. Occasionally there were good days, though they never balanced out the poor ones. 212 Charles dropped into a chair, yet he didn't relax. His feet were tapping the rug and his hands were tapping the arm rest. It was as if his feet were still beating the pavements, and his knuckles knocking on doors. "Please, Connie, get the children off to bed. I'm starved to death." "Yes, dear." Connie hurried Larry and 1 Mary up the stairway before her. Every bone in her legs ached. And the hardest part of the day was yet before her, getting the twins settled down for the night. If she had another time of it getting them asleep as she had last night! Connie sighed, thinking about it. Larry had started a pillow fight with a torn, leaky pillow and Connie figured she would be picking up feathers when snow fell next Christmas. Connie pulled a chair between the twin beds and sat down. It felt good to get off her feet. "Mother, read us a story." "It's too late, Mary." "But you promised," Larry chided. "IT read earlier in the evening. Have you forgotten?" Was it going to be another riot like last night? Connie promised herself she wouldn't think about last night. She must discipline her memory. Why was putting children to bed such a nightmare for her? When she was a child it had been a joy to drop off to sleep in her soft feather bed. She could almost feel her mother's cool hand on her forehead. What had she said...? "Connie, honey, you've been a good little girl all day today. You helped Mother every time with the dishes, and you threaded the needle when Mother's old eyes couldn't see the little needle's eye. You dusted the parlor ever so well. You were a little jewel all day long. Mother will sing a song or two, so close your eyes and rest. 'Go to sleep my pickaninny. It's time for a little child to rest.'" waar had her mother had at bedtime that Connie didn't have? Connie pondered the thought. Cooly and logically, Connie studied the problem in her mind. Like a hard rain on the windowpane, the difference struck Connie on her forehead. Her own mother had known the value of a lullaby. Lullabies seemed to be a forgotten art in this atomic age. Yet music had played an important part in the history of man. Why, even before earth life, according to the Good Book, the morning stars sang together and all the sons of God shouted for joy. At Christ's birth, angels had come near the earth and sung peace on earth and joy to the world. How long had it been since she herself had even touched the keys on her own piano? She should be teaching the twins to sing. Vaguely, Connie remembered a great poet named Congreve had once said, "Music hath charms to soothe the savage breast, to soften rocks, or bend a knotted oak." EVENTIDE Why hadn't she tried a lullaby instead of all this fussing and jangling with the children every night? Now, when the children were toddlers was the time to instill an incipient love of music in her youngster's hearts. Connie reached her arms out, and put a cool hand on each overheated little forehead, as they lay in their twin beds on either side. Then she started singing softly. "Go to sleep, my pickaninny. It's time for little childs to rest. Daytime is over and night has just begun. Cuddle up to your Mammie's breast. I can hear the night birds calling. It's time for little childs to rest. The sandman's coming. Your Mammie's humming a Georgia lullaby." Connie followed it with another lullaby, then let her voice fade completely away. Both little children had dropped off into a deep sleep. She tiptoed softly from their room, and started down the stairway. Charles stood there at the foot of the stairway. He was smiling up at her. "Say, that was right pretty. It sort of relaxed me, sitting here as you sang to the children." Connie suddenly realized she, too, wasn't as upset and tense as she had been. She felt more relaxed and calmed down. Her lullaby had had a wonderful effect on the entire family. Connie smiled lovingly at Charles, and said, "Oh.". When she came to the last step where he was waiting for her, her lips were still rounded from the "oh," and he kissed her, lightly, but not too lightly.