[Vol50 | March 1963 | Page 223 | Home | Lucy S. Guyas, Maker of | Many Quilts]
[Lucy S. Guyas, Maker of Many Quilts]

Many lovely quilts have been given to friends and neighbors and in this way a large number of homes have been beautified and made comfortable. Mrs. Guyas is mother to three children and grandmother to nine. She has lived in Salmon for thirty-five years and is active in the Church, and in Relief Society. Speak that kindly word and do that kindly deed that lingers in your heart. Who knows what ray of sunshine it may bring—and tomorrow may be too late. —Pauline Bell 223 CHAPTER 3 Synopsis: Irene Spencer, who met her husband Dick in South Africa, comes to a small town near Salt Lake City, and sees for the first time the shabby old house which is to be her home. Dick plans to have his Grandfather and his young handicapped brother David live with them. Irene meets Dick's Aunt Ella who has cared for David since his mother died, and Aunt Ella, also, is accepted as a member of the new household. LLA was a one-woman army in a war against dirt. She attacked the grime that had accumulated in the big house with a vigor that left Irene breathless. As she worked, she talked. Irene had learned not to try to ease in a reply unless necessary. Ella talked more to herself and her enemy, the dirt, than to anyone else. "Got to vacuum first, that's for sure." The whir of the machine formed a buzzing backdrop to her words. "Send these drapes to the cleaners, so you can see what color they are. Can't stand to even take them down until they've been vacuumed, though. Like to choke us all to death, all that dust. What are we going to do with this rug? It'll take a miracle to get that soot out of it. I'd forgotten there was so much woodwork. It needs a good coat of polish, after we get it cleaned." Davy moved like a small ghost through the rooms. He followed Ella as she worked, and she encour- 224 aged the child to remain nearby. Irene felt haunted by the child. She would feel his presence, his empty eyes on her as she worked. If she turned to see him, he would be gone. Or she would glance up, to find him half-hidden by a drape or a chair, peeping out at her. If she tried to approach him or speak to him, he would shrink from her and disappear. Bringing order out of chaos was no easy thing to do. As the remodeling progressed, electricians, plumbers, carpenters, and _ painters created and recreated a havoc of noise and clutter. Each day Irene and Ella struggled valiantly through what seemed like never-ending mountains of dust, dirt, sawdust, paint, plaster, and other assorted materials. They found companionship in their mutual struggle against them. Irene was grateful for the numbness that hard work enforced on her mind. She still felt like an interloping outsider. When she tried to visualize the future, she rejected such thoughts fearfully. Years seemed to stretch before her, with a house to care for in which she was an alien stranger, and a child to rear that she couldn't even talk to. She couldn't accustom herself to carrying on onesided conversations with Davy, as Dick did. Besides, Davy wouldn't let her. He was lost and confused in the riot of the house, cared for, but largely ignored. Even the solarium was not exempt from the clutter. It was hollowly empty when Dick moved his desk and files into it. Three walls of glass surrounded him, and in the U center of those windows, he set up his drawing board. Later he intended to partition the huge room into offices. At the moment, it became a convenient storage spot for paint cans, hammers, plumbing fixtures, draperies that had come back from the cleaners but would not be hung until the cleaning was finished, and other odds and ends that Ella, Irene, and the workmen saw fit to store away in it. Dick was goodnatured about this usurpation of his domain, but Irene knew he would welcome any changes for the better. She fell into bed each night so exhausted that, as she told Dick, frequently she was asleep before her head touched the pillow. He frowned. "You'd better take it easy. You're trying to get too much done too fast. It'll wait." "That's what I'm afraid of. It's waited too long already." "You don't want to _ overdo, Irene." "Pm perfectly all right," she said fondly. "The work's good for me. It keeps my mind occupied." ~ HE sea-grayness of his eyes darkened. "I know what you mean. I know how hard all this has been on you. The house, and Granddad and Ella, and especially Davy. I can't just forget them and go off and live my own life, Irene, even if that might be the easy way.