[Vol50 | March 1963 | Page 204 | Home | Ribbons and Roses Jennie | R. Scott]
(Table display — pattern for ribbon roses and ideas for their use by Sue Ballantyne, Portland Stake) (Illustrations for Ribbons and Roses Gloria Hermanson, Bountiful Stake) 207 Make a Zabaton Jennie R. Scott Member, General Board of Relief Society HE tables marked "This and That From Here and There" displayed a_ number of interesting items. The large pillow in the center of this picture is a Zabaton, or Oriental pillow, which can be used on the floor or on a couch or bed. It is made from a square of material of any size. Usually those for the floor are made from a 36-inch square or larger — a 36-inch square of material makes a 25-inch square zabaton. The zabaton © ls a favorite of decorators and is an excellent way to use remnants. « BE ree F; tet ' —. BP - 4 4 Set, -. Tf Jang a ta a aK Se oR dy ene Color Photograph by Lorenzo S. Young Material needed: A square of material — bright print, velveteen, drapery material, pure silk. Floss for tassels. Cotton bat, dacron bat, or celucloud bat (synthetic cotton) for filling. Use 1 pound of batting for an 18-inch square, 17% pounds for a 27-inch square, and 3 pounds or more for a 36-inch square of material. 208 Directions: Fold square in half, right sides together, and sew up both ends (Figure 1). Open up. Place sewed seams together in center, and pin. Sew from outside toward center about 4 to 6 inches on unsewed sides, leaving center open (Figure 2) Place seams side down on the table, still wrong side out. Unfold filling and pinch off a piece that is once again as large as the pillow on each side, and place it on top of the pillow (Figure 3). Fold the remainder of the filling so it is the same size as the pillow and set on top of the filling over the pillow, being careful that there are no holes and shallow places in the filling and it feels equal and smooth all over. Now fold the overlapping filling evenly over on all four sides so that the edges are rounded and the same size as the pillow. Some of the filling may be pinched off the p~------~~~-7 comers, if desired, so they will not be too bulky (Figure 4). I Carefully turn pillow and filling over so that the pillow is! Now on top of the filling with the seams side up.; ' Thread 2 yards of floss through darning needle. Use I thread double. Do not knot. Starting about half way down from the center of one _ seam, stitch long basting stitches % inch away from the machine stitch down to the edge of the material, catching one thickness of material only. Pull needle through and pass it through the filling once only 2 inches back from the corner of the filling. Make a loop around the filling and enter the material at the edge on the opposite side of the machine stitching and % inch from it and baste toward the center until opposite the starting point, catching one thickness of material only. Clip off needle, leaving plenty of basting thread at beginning and ending of basting (Figure 5). Repeat process on each corner. Turn pillow again with filling now on the top. Roll up in a ball holding each corner and turn pillow right side out through the open seam, so that the filling is on the inside. Press filling toward the corners. With needle pull out basting threads on each side of the seams toward the last stitch from the corner, leaving the last stitch in. Pull on the threads, working the filling well into corners. Tie in double knot, leaving long ends on. Repeat process with all corners. Make tassels by winding floss around cardboard cut the size you wish the tassels to be (Figure 6). Remove cardboard and tie uncut ends to long threads left on pillow corners. Wind floss around the top to make a head and tie. Cut other end to make tassel (Figure 7). Slip stitch the open seam on the back (Figure 8). Sew on round or square button on the right side with cross-stitch or make tassel for center, or just cross-stitch. A button round or square can be made by covering with material a piece of stiff cardboard padded with a thin piece of cotton.