[Vol50 | March 1963 | Page 190 | General Feature | Relief Society | Magazine Available]
NDEX FOR 19602 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE AVAILABLE OPIES of the 1962 index of The Relief Society Magazine are available and may be ordered from the General Board of Relief Society, 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City 11, Utah. The price is twenty cents, including postage. Relief Society officers and members who wish to have their 1962 issues of The Relief Society Magazine bound may do so through The Deseret News Press, 33 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. (See advertisement on page 239.) 190 y, \. Delightful way to spend a voung kind of birthday is to have a "Dake" party. The kindergarten age is ideal for such a party. Children love to feel bigger than they are, and at this type of party they are giantsized. Every small child enjoys helping his mother bake, and this can sometimes be quite a trial to a I busy mother. At a "bake" party, the children can literally put a "finger in every pie." A bake party, to be successful, must be carefully planned. Six children, about five years old, are. A sufficient number to manage. Enthusiasm for the party is developed well in advance by invitations which might be written on baker's hats drawn on construction paper: Friday's "bake" day at our house, And Mother needs a crew To make pies and cakes and rolls And even cookies, too. My birthday we will celebrate And bakers we'll become. Each thing we make is ours to keep, And we'll take our bake goods home. IThe party will begin at nine. At noon we'll have a lunch. Please come with hands and face well scrubbed And join this baker's bunch. In order for the small, purposeful guests to achieve, certain advance preparations are important. Baker's hats and aprons serve to turn the children into gourmet chefs and to protect the party clothes as well. Instructions for the apron and hat: Apron / 1. Cut out of unbleached muslin the 'apron according to the diagram. Allow enough additional border to hem. 1/" 2. Cut the shoulder strap 18" by 3%". Fold in two, seam, and turn inside out. Sew to one side of the apron as illustrated. Leave the other side free so that it can be adjusted by pin to the size of the guest. 3. The side ties must be 32" long so they can tie in front as real baker's aprons do. 4. The pocket is placed in the center of the bib section of the apron. 5- The apron may be trimmed with embroidered figures shaped from cookie cutters. Hat 1. Cut a circle out of unbleached muslin 21 inches in diameter. Gather the edges to fit the band (about 20 inches). 2. Cut a band 21" by 5%". Interline the band with buckram or other stiffening. Hem the lower edge and join the ends with a %" seam. 3. Baste the gathered circle to the edge of the band, nght sides facing. Then sew on the machine. 4. Embroider a cookie character in the center of the hat. 5- If necessary, adjust the head size to the guest by a small safety pin at the band seam. Each successful baker needs the proper implements. Small _participants call for small size pie tins, angel food cake pans, loaf tins, and rolling pins, which can be taken home, of course. The use of Mother's cookie sheets and cookie cutters is allowed, however. A variety of recipes gives the party a certain allure. Banana cream pie, cup cakes, angel food cake, cloverleaf rolls, sugar cookies, and a batch of fudge keep the guests busy for an entire morning. Childish impatience will not wait for full preparation during the party. Well in advance, with the aid of cake mixes, the cup cakes and angel food cakes should be baked. Do not remove the angel food cakes from the pans. A batch of fudge can be divided among the six wee loaf tins. 'The freezer will keep things fresh until party day. The night before the party, the dough for the sugar cookies and cloverleaf rolls can be made and refrigerated. Prior to the start of the party, the pie dough should be mixed, the cream filling prepared, and also the cake icings. HE children are greeted with the aprons and hats, and led to a wellscrubbed kitchen table. 'The party begins without delay: 1. Each child is given a ball of the previously refrigerated roll dough. The children are instructed to roll small balls of the dough with their hands, placing three balls in each section of a muffin tin. Soon the six rolls for each child are completed. 2. While the rolls are rising, the cookie dough can be distributed. With the bit-size rolling pins on the well-floured table, the children roll and cut their cookies. During this period the rolls are baked. 3. With the working area still floured, it is an excellent time to begin 194 the angel food cakes and decorating them with candies. Also, at this period, the fudge is carefully cut by the bakers into serving pieces. 5. The high peak of the party is the completing of the pies. A layer of filling, a half of a banana sliced carefully, another layer of filling, and a meringue topping ( prepared as the children work) make the pies ready 6. The concluding activity is the decorating of the cup cakes. The licking of fingers, sticky faces, and the tasting of various trims are al] permissible at this point. Each child has a birthday candle for his favorite cup cake. Four to six cup cakes should be given to each guest. The party should begin about nine a. M. In order to complete the catastrophe. Such a party as this will prove to be a talking point for many days and a memory for many years. 195 Sewing Success in Monument Park 11th Ward Salt Lake City, Utah VERY Relief Society, in my opinion, should, and could conduct a sewing course. It can be a most interesting and stimulating class in the organization. For the teacher who has enthusiasm and _ appreciation for the advantages of home sewing, the achievement can be most rewarding, and the women who learn to sew receive great joy in their new accomplishments. Many women become interested in the full program of Relief Society, and eventually become members, by first participating in the sewing Classes. At first, imterest in a sewing project may require some stimulation. In our 2 Helen Lach, Instructor ward, before beginning the course, we displayed completed articles of home sewing made by accomplished seamstresses and made a detailed comparison of price and quality of workmanship between_ the home-sewed clothing and ready-made articles. We emphasized such important considerations as well-made seams, hems, buttonholes, facings, collars, and other fine points of sewing and tailoring. The benefits of sewing projects for mothers of young children were outlined, and it was explained that many women begin their careers as seamstresses by making simple clothing for their children. At the left: Muumuu made of polished Polynesian cotton, with plain polished ton ins itern was drafted by the instructor from an original Polynesian muyumuy. Erchased. Made by Mrs. Ila Nelson. Similar patterns ca The muumuu has three frog fasteners down the front. Cost $3.25, including pattern.: Center: Child's basic dress made of polished cotton and trimmed with _ buttons. Puf ves are edged with narrow white rick-rack braid; white cotton collar on dark red dress. C€ including pattern. Several dresses similar to this one were made in the classes. At the right: Black dress with brocade top and gathered chiffon skirt with taffeta underskirt. » Cost $6.00, including pattern. Made by Mrs. Ila Nefson. At the left: Model: Miss Kathleen Lach Wool doubleknit (sweater-knit) coat, fully lined with rayon taffeta; double-breasted. Cost $3.00, including pattern. Center: Peacock-blue colored wool two-piece suit; skirt and jacket fully lined with sheath lining; flap pockets and covered buttons on jacket. Model: Mrs.