[Vol50 | March 1963 | Page 189 | General Feature | The Heritage of Relief Society Vesta | P. Crawford]
So it was that Relief Society was given to women as a choice and precious gift for themselves, for safe keeping as a heritage, and to be a treasured legacy for their daughters. Those footsteps that traced a pathway to and from Relief Society meetings in Nauvoo, those words of tenderness and compassion spoken long ago marked the changing pathway for women. The spirit and message and the works of ministration lighted the shadowed circles of the camps of exodus, glowed with the morning light upon the wagon trains slowly discovering a pathway in the cleft of the mountains. 'The saints in the valleys of the wilderness received the kindly comfort and the helping hands of Relief Society women, although the full and perfect organization awaited the development and the application of the pattern of Nauvoo, and its large intent. 'The poplar-lined streets of villages sheltered in the desert knew the footsteps of faithful women walking to and from their meetings, visiting the 


 families in the wards, walking swiftly to homes of trouble and care. Wagons and surreys and_ saddle horses brought the ranch women to their meetings. And in a time of cities many new — organizations appeared in states and territories, and in the mission field the faithful sisterhood learned the pattern of individual progress and group co-operation and _ service. They learned that many hands make light work and that many women working together can lift heavy burdens, not possible to women serving as individuals. The footsteps and the words and the pattern from Nauvoo have spread to the far corners of the earth, to the lovely green islands, to the great continents — to many lands among many people. As the stakes and missions of the Church have increased their borders and their numbers, so have the organizations of Relief Society become multiplied, and the message that once was proclaimed to a few is now the living pattern for thousands who rejoice and remember and express their gratitude. The blessings, opportunities, and responsibilities of Relief Society must be explained, exemplified, and patterned in the lives of those who in time will be affiliated and receive the blessings and the uplifting re sponsibilities. Many members of the sisterhood have been heard to say "Relief Society has everything," and this is true in the sense that individuals and the organization as a whole have received, from the beginning, a steadfast though flexible pattern, guided and directed by those who have the power to speak and act in the name of the Lord. Relief Society is more than a fellowship, more than groups of women studying art or literature Or music or social science, more than a group devoted to learning the ways of ideal motherhood and homemaking, more than an organization seeking to learn the enduring truths of theology. Relief Society partakes of the qualities of all of these — and then is added upon, for it has been given a sacred and everlasting pattern. Let us speak of this and tell it as glad tidings to those who are new among us and those who are seekers after the blessings that are a living part of the beloved heritage. Let all our words be strong and beautiful, for we are the present guardians of a great and precious treasure. —V. P. C.