[Vol50 | March 1963 | Page 202 | Home | Use of The Relief Society Magazine in Work Meeting Jennie | R. Scott]
Use of the Relief Society Magazine in the Work Meeting ' up Oey /\VAGAZINE coma te, Une aut, of the Display From Mesa Stake Color Photograph by Lorenzo S. Young Articles on display were made from patterns published in the issues listed below Hot pads from "Holders for Pans" — September 1960, page 587. "A Strawberry Pin Cushion" — October 1960, page 662. "Christmas Aprons'"" — October 1960, page 658.. Quilting pictures from '"'Let's Learn to Quilt" — September 1961, page 591. Pine cone dolls — "Holiday Table'? — December 1961, page 827. Holiday apron —"Aprons for Mr. And Mrs. Santa Claus" — November 10961, fe /47- Worm pull toy — "Christmas Gifts" — November 1961, page 742. Toy duck — "Stuffed Toys Are Delightful" — March 1962, page 211. Candlesticks — "Make It Out of Imagination" — February 1962, page 102. "Toddler's Cover-Apron" — June 1962, page 438. Floral arrangements were made up using directions from: "Flower Arrangements for Springtime" — March 1951, page 177. "Whys, Wherefores, and Fun with Green Plants'"" — March 1960, page 181. Recipes included: Rolls from "Say 'Merry Christmas' With Fancy Yeast Rolls' — December 1959, page 823. Easy filled cookies — "Recipes for a Picnic" — July 1961, page 456. Carrot cake — 'Something Different for Dinner'? — April 1961, page 256. "Candy for Your Easter Basket'? — April 1962, page 274. "Homemade Candy for Winter Evenings" — January 1962, page 36. 203 ARTS AND CRAFTS Ribbons and oses Jennie R. Scott Member, General Board of Relief Society wide variety of arts and crafts made in Relief Society were on display at the work meeting department of the Relief Society Annual General Conference last October. These displays emphasized the originality and ingenuity of the Relief Society members in fashioning useful and beautiful articles for the home. Ribbons and Roses An umbrella (small frame covered with net and decotated with roses) or a heart centerpiece would be attractive for a bridal shower or an announcement party. Aprons can be decorated with the roses, and favors made for place cards. Small sprays for decorating packages, jars, and candles add interest and beauty. Nosegays for graduating girls, bouquets for bridesmaids, and even the bridal bouquet can be made from these lovely roses. A corsage costs very little and is a nice remembrance. A small living fir tree decorated with ribbons and roses for office or apartment is most attractive at Christmas time, as are wreaths and a kissing bell. A ribbon rose on a tray for the sick room would help to brighten the morning for someone who is ill. 204 FOR WORK MEETING RIBBON ROS,. PORTLAND STAI '~ <2 Color Photograph by Lorenzo §. Young The roses can be made from any width ribbon. — So-called number g ribbon (1% inch) is the most popular and will make about 4 two-inch diameter rose. The best type of ribbon, and also the most inexpensive, is regular florist acetate Tayon ribbon. It can be bought by the bolt (100 yards) at about $1.60, "Fach little rose costs about one-half cent. 205 Procedure Cut a piece of No. 9 ribbon about 20 inches long. Have the wrong side of the mbbon toward you. Fold the righthand end of the ribbon at an angle, leaving about an inch tail (Figure 1). Roll the fold about 3 or 4 turns very tightly, to form a core for the center of the rose (Figure 2). Next, fold the mbbon from the top back away from you with your left hand forming an angle (Figure 3). Roll core in one or two loose turns, almost to the end of the fold. Again fold the top edge of ribbon back, forming a new angle — notice it is the opposite side of the ribbon this time (Figure 4). Roll the core in loosely about a_ half turn, then make a new fold. These folds should not be more than 1% inches long, depending on the width of the ribbon. Continue in this manner until you have the desired size rose, or until only an inch of ribbon is left (Figures 5 and 6). To finish, tuck the end piece down as neatly as possible and wire the tails with florist wire (Figure 7). The ends of the nbbon may need to be trimmed. Next, tape the stem with floratape and place a rose calyx under the flower. Place a leaf behind the flower to frame the rose. Wreath or Heart of Ribbon Bows and Roses Materials needed: Styrofoam circle or heart No. 16 or 18 wire No. G floral acetate ribbon To make ribbon bows, begin with shiny side of ribbon toward you. Grasp in middle and crumple slightly, looping ribbon back away from you, twisting as it comes up to middle each time so as to keep shiny side on outside of bow. 206 Bridal Bouquets and Corsages Bridal bouquets are enlargements of the small corsage. Groupings of single roses and leaves are placed one below the other, usually in groups of threes or fives, with as many as the size needed demands. Floral wax wrap secures the roses and leaves to the wire stems. Bows made like the ones used in the wreath are placed either in the middle of the grouping or at the base to complete the corsage or bouquet. In the bridal bouquet, long streamers may be left on the ends of the bows and knotted here and there. Covered millinery wire works very well in the forming of bows and making of roses, but when putting them together a heavier wire is needed. Either No. 16 or No. 18 wire works very well. A nosegay may be made by clustering bows and roses in a circular pattern and adding plastic lace backing. 'Tiny nosegays make lovely place cards at announcement or birthday parties. An attractive table arrangement can be made by placing a large candle in the center of a compote and surrounding it with bows and roses, with a wreath of roses and leaves twined up the candle itself. A small hole cut in a base of styrofoam can be used to support the candle. Florist clay will hold the candle in place (see below). The basic small corsage gives a finishing touch to a gift package for any occasion. A single rose and leaf glued or tied on a glass canister filled with homemade cookies or candies makes a cheerful gift for shut-ins.