[Vol50 | March 1963 | Page 214 | Home | The Power of Protein Flora H. Bardwell and Ethelwyn | B. Wilcox]
The Power of Protein Flora H. Bardwell and Ethelwyn B. Wilcox Department of Food and Nutrition Utah State University NE of the best friends a () "body" has is protein — in fact, it makes up a large percentage of the total body. All that makes you — your skin, hair, eyes, nails, your muscles, are proteins. Most of all that makes you "go" — the blood, lymph, heart and lungs, tendons and muscles, ligaments, brains and nerves are also proteins. You are largely what protein has made you. You will probably become the result of the protein you enjoy in your food each day., Protein, next to water, is the most plentiful substance in the body. The proteins that make up this large per cent of the body are not there as fixed, unchanging substance, like building blocks deposited for a lifetime of use. 'They are in a constant state of exchange within the body tissues. Some protein molecules are always breaking down, and others are being built as replacements. This is why every day our intake of food must supply the necessary protein, even when we no longer need it for growth. Protein, in addition to building body tissues and muscle, regulates body processes and can also supply energy to the body when needed. If other sources of energy are available, protein will be used to carry out its own special functions of building and repairing tissues and 214 of regulating body functions. If other emergency sources are not available, the body will use protein for energy, thus depriving the muscles and other tissues of needed protein. Hence, a day's supply of food must necessarily include not only adequate protein, but also a balance of the other energy foods, the fats and carbohydrates. A third function of protein is its use for growth; however maintenance of body functions comes first in needs. If not enough protein is supplied by the diet for both growth and maintenance, growth is retarded. Hence, this provides another reason for maintaining sufficient protein every day. Proteins are made up of more simple substances called amino acids. 'There are eighteen amino acids which are used in different combinations in our common foods. These amino acids are linked together in the protein molecule much as the cars of a train are coupled together to make a freight or passenger train. In the body all food proteins are broken down into amino acids which are then rebuilt into specific body proteins using different combinations than occurred in the food. All of these amino acids are essential to life and health, but only eight must be completely formed in the food and ready for use.