[Vol50 | March 1963 | Page 196 | Home | Sewing Success in Monument Park Eleventh Ward | Heleh Lach]
[Sewing Success in Monument Park Eleventh Ward Heleh Lach]

sewing classes are conducted under the general supervision of Kay Sullivan, work meeting leader, and the instructor is Helen Lach. 'Two classes are held each Thursday, forenoon and afternoon. The morning class begins at nine and lasts until twelve, and the afternoon class begins at one and lasts until four. Enrollment is limited to three or four women, unless the group is composed of experienced sewers who require less instruction. During the noon hour, when regular class instruction is not being given, specific help is provided for women who are not enrolled in the classes. They bring their individual problems to the instructor and receive directions for remodeling, inserting zippers, finishing seams, and other problems which arise in the process of home sewing. In order to accommodate our. Present long waiting list of applicants for the sewing courses, each woman is limited to making three articles. Then, if she wishes to continue and increase her sewing skills, she is permitted to re-enroll, and her name is placed on the waiting list. Usually, a two-piece suit can be completed in four instruction periods. Some of the women who have finished one or more of the regular sewing courses return for help during the noon period, and in this way they are enabled to complete other articles in their homes. In one year, fifty-three beautiful articles were completed in our sewing courses. These included suits, coats, children's clothing, men's and boys' clothing, dresses, and ensembles. In one combined class project twenty-two muumuus were made. Beautifully sewed, and a delight to wear, these muumuus gave the women much satisfaction, and they were pleased with the colorful materials and the unique designs. In the mid-year a successful fashion show was held, displaying the completed articles. 198 At bottom: Two-piece suit in basket-weave turquoise-colored wool; acetate crepe lining was used for the jacket and sheath lining for the skirt. The jacket has tailored slashed front and is trimmed with crystal buttons; the tailored buttonholes were made in the sewing class. The skirt has inset pockets in the gathered front panel. Cost $9.00, including pattern. Made by Mrs.. Shirley Latteier At the top, left: Black wool sheath dress with tie belt. The belt is trimmed with fringe made from silk embroidery floss. Cost $2.00, including pattern, Made by Mrs. Ila Nelson At the top, right: Fire-wagon red, doubleknit sheath dress and jacket ensemble; crepe lining used for the jacket and sheath lining for the dress. Cost $15.00, including pattern. Made by Mrs. Jackie Anderson At the left: Jumper in wide-wale, olive-green corduroy; white cotton blouse. Note pleat and stitching down the front of the jumper. Blouse has a bow tie. Cost $3.00, including pattern. Model: Miss Kathleen Lach Center: Ensemble, dress made of peach and white striped seersucker, and coat made of nubby shantung lined with white taffeta. Model: Mrs. Olive Nilsen Cost $9.00, including pattern. At the right: Two-piece suit made of Copenhagen blue basket-weave wool. Jacket lined with rayon crepe and skirt lined with sheath lining. Cost $15.00, including pattern. Model: Mrs. Fern England Suggestions to Keep in Mind When Conducting a Sewing Class: 1. Carry on the class under the direction of the ward presidency, and work closely with the work meeting leader. 2. Do not enroll more women than can be adequately instructed and given enough individual attention to retain and increase their interest. 3. Provide a nursery, if necessary. 4. Have the classroom ready and all equipment set up. 5. Regularity and promptness in beginMonument Park Eleventh Ward Reli Work Director Counselor, Echo Bean; Edu leader, Kay Sullivan. Ning and closing classes should be strictly observed. 6. Discourage visitors or interruptions during the instruction period. 7. Avoid any comparison or competition in skill or time required for completing articles. Rather, encourage the mastering of each step and strive for beauty in the finished garment. 8. See that each article is completely finished and properly pressed before it is taken home. Ef Society Officers: Rhea Stucki, President: cation Counselor, Alta Glade; work meeting Monument Park Stake Relief Society President: Henrietta Young. Photographs and Transparencies by Hal Rumel.