[Vol4 | October 1917 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Somewhere Annie R. Roberts]

Somewhere. By. Innie P. Roberts. Somewhere, safe with the angels of light, is the baby who left us here; Dear little life that ne'er knew a cross, And eyes undimmed by a tear. Somewhere, safe in our Father's home, And our little one awake, When her untried soul through the great unknown Did its heavenward passage take. Our dreams are filled with the touch of her hands,. The pattering sound of her feel; And like the low notes of the song-bird's call Her voice so gentle and sweet. Waking, we stretch forth our empty arms, And question in sad refrain, "Shall we come to you there, someday, somewhere, And know you, and have you again?" Have her again? Ah love Divine! Once ours she is ours for aye; The two worlds touch and but veil of sense Hides our little girl's form away. Somewhere, we know, in the realms of God, Our darling our coming waits, \nd. mayhap, for us her baby hands Shall open the beautiful gates. Somewhere, safe in the fold -of Christ, Ts the lamb who left us here, Dear little life, so pure and white, And eves undimmed by a tear. And to hearts that mourn comes the old sweet words, By our blessed Savior given. "Suffer them all to come unto me, For of such is the Kingdom of Heaven." Notes from the Field. By Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary. CONSERVATION. When it is taken into consideration that the women of the Relief Society are as a general rule the mothers of large families, that they clo practically all their own sewing and housework, and in many instances cook for farm hands, that they attend faithfully to their Relief Society duties, by administering to the sick and needy, and in addition attend regularly their weekly Society meetings where courses of study are pursued, that they take an active part in all public movements for civic betterment, it is gratifying as well as surprising that they have managed to go so extensively into war food production and conservation, and have found time to take up additional work for the Red Cross. It is very evident that they have learned to conserve time as well as food, and that they have wasted no effort during the last year. We only hope our members will not overdo, but conserve themselves as well as the food and material resources. North Sanpete. The North Sanpete stake has secure 1 and distributed a large number of bulletins and pamphlets on food conservation. The members are working individually as well as collectively to economize in all matters and to conserve large quantities of fruit and vegetables for the coming winter's use. South Sanpete. The Relief Society members of the Stirling ward made good use of a donation of 9 1/4 bushels of apples. These apples were quarts of jelly were made. This same ward has just finished 4 pealed and dried. Of the peelings and cores of the apple? 16 quilts for a needy family. Bannock Stake. The women of Bannock stake have for many years been successfully canning vegetables of all kinds. They have also dried for their own use large quantities of sweet corn. It has therefore required little or no effort to enlist their services in a general campaign for food preservation. Not all varieties of fruit can be grown in this locality and as a result of this, all that is grown is well cared for. Some of the women of this stake have been eminently successful in the canning of fish  salmon trout  which is most delicious and palatable. In some families this canned fish is taking the place of meat. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Deseret Stake. The women in Deseret stake have been very active in food production. Many of the wards have planted wheat and potatoes. At a recent meeting held in Deserel ward, it was noted that in the minutes of the previous meeting the women of the ward were invited to appear at the potato field on a certain day to weed the Relief Society potato patch. A great deal of the labor on the various wheat and potato patches has been done by these good women personally. One of the best looking wheat fields in Millard county is that of the Leamington Relief Society, a branch of 37 members.