[Vol4 | October 1917 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Current Topics | Title: Current Events James H. Anderson]

Current Topics. By James II. Anderson. American troops being trained in France are practically ready to take a place on the fighting line. German air raids over England continued during August, and early September with serious results. The State of Utah has bought an expensive automobile for its Governor to ride in. Moscow is to be the new capital of Russia, or of at least that portion of it which may remain intact after the war. Draftinc of young married men for the army has raised a serious question in the United States, by reason of its effect on the future population. China has declared war against Germany. This is favorable to the United States, as China's resources affect the Asiatic campaign. James Rowan, district secretary of the T. W. W., called a general strike in several Northwestern States, in August, to hamper the government; he was arrested, and the strike failed to materialize. Aerial attacks by the Entente Allies upon German troops and bases are becoming more and more an important item of the active warfare now in progress in Europe. THE FRENCH at last have succeeded in driving the Germans back to the line where the latter were before they began the great drive against Verdun, in February,. The Germans made great headway against the Russians in August, the Russian soldiers retiring precipitately in many places. without an effort at defending their country. In early September the Germans took Riga, the Baltic port. Women in Turkey are being called to office positions and as telephone operators. The world moves, even in Turkey, when war compels. CURRENT TOPICS. 577 Armed Resistance in Oklahoma, against the workings of the draft law was suppressed quickly by the government, through the arrest of about 250 of the objectors; several were killed in making the arrests. The National Guard of the several States was mustered into the Federal service on August 5, making an immense army. Italy gained notable victories over the Austrians in the las' week of August, securing that part of Austria where the chief population is Italian. Empress Eugenie, though past 90 years of age, takes an intense interest in the great war in France, and anticipates that she will see her country again in possession of Alsace and Lorraine, lost when her husband was overthrown as emperor of France. Austria is now the weakest of the Teutonic powers in the way of desiring peace and willingness to make concessions there finish for, but is held back by Germany's inflexible desire to fight to a Liberia, though a small nation, is important in its declaration of war against Germany, as this will eliminate the little republic as a base of supplies for the Teutons, which it has been for some time. Minister A. F. Kerensky, though made ostensible dictator in Russia, yet is unable to command the adherence of the various factions to the extent of a virile unification of the nation, hence the latter continually faces crises threatening the national existence. Liquor to the amount of $25,000 in value was hidden in a garden in Salt Lake City, and was unearthed by the police after the prohibition law went into effect. Verily the way of the lawbreaker sometimes is expensive. "Loot Jerusalem" is the motto of the present Turkish regime in Syria, which also is driving the Jews from Palestine. This will land. aid in hastening the overthrow of the "terrible Turk" in that Matless women is a situation after the war which is greatly agitating some sections of society. The Prophet Isaiah had something to say on that subject concerning these times. 
 The Fashion Art League in Chicago has decreed that hereafter half-hose shall he the style for ladies' silk hose, with no ribbons or laces for certain undergarments, which are to be of bright colors. Russia has become a negative factor in the war, so far as the Entente Allies are concerned, and seems destined to disintegration. The Socialism in control there is proving incapable of the task of unifying the people even for successful self-defense against German aggression. On the western front in the great war in Europe, France. Great Britain and Italy scored notable successes during August, against their Teutonic foes, but the battle-lines still are tensely drawn for another year's campaign. Germany's food supply is alternately reported to be sufficient and exhausted. It probably is neither, for the kaiser had laid in a good supply of grain as well as of munitions of war, but the conflict is lasting longer than he anticipated. The submarine menace from Germany grows less in magnitude with each succeeding month, owing to the efficiency of the destroyer service from the British, French and American fleets. Trousers are now officially authenticated as a proper costume for women, according to fashion authorities. It is to be hoped the garment worn will not be the inelegant pair of parallel cylinders with peg-top variation as worn by men of fashion. Twenty-one of the forty-two nations of the world are formally at war. seven others have broken off" relations with Germany, and the remaining fourteen are sufferers from the war, as this affects foodstuffs and other necessary supplies that are articles of commerce. Negro troops of the 24th U. S. infantry engaged in a race riot at Houston, Texas, in August, in which 17 persons, mostly white people, were killed. The quartering of negro troops where there is any considerable colored population, especially in the South, always has proved a costly mistake. Prussianizing America to democratize Germany is a fear which is being expressed frequently in the United States as a result of the unusual powers of control which Congress is placing in the hands of a few prominent men. Time must tell whether these powers are exercised righteously. CURRENT TOPICS. 579 Washington officials now admit that for a long time presuppositions to January, 1917, attack the this government United knew of in Germany's States if successful defeating France and Great Britain. Yet 1917 found this country in a state of absolute unpreparedness for such an event. Gasoline conservation is to be effected by reducing the amount of automobile "joyriding," if government has its way; conservation of human life and safety also would be effected thereby, since many "accidents" are due to recklessness of the "joyriders." Mesopotamia, the great overland route to central Asia in the Old World until after Vasco da Gama rounded the Cape, is likely to be revived, this time as the route for Great Britain from Alexandretta to India; hence the political and commercial importance of relieving it from Turkish or German domination as reveal since the war began. Control of the great material interests of the United States such as transportation, fuel, food, and important manufactures. is now centered in the national administration at Washington  a condition which, as a virtual substitution of autocracy for democracy in this country, would have shocked and even appalled the entire nation if seriously proposed half-a-dozen years since. The peace proposal of the Pope was decidedly adverse to France and England in that it would establish a virtual Teutonic empire from the Rhine to the Persian Gulf, and leave the way open for another aggressive war by Germany, to crush France and menace or destroy Great Britain. This fact made certain the rejection of the proposal by the Entente Allies. In Salt Lake City, the street railway asked for an increase of practically 25% to 50% in fares, owing to the increased cost of operation. The people objected on the ground that their expenses, too, had advanced, and to increase the carfare would be putting the whole burden on the class which could least afford it. Thus the question was submitted to the State public utilities commission to determine. President Wilson's reply declining the terms of peace proposed by the Pope, on the ground that the word of the present German government without the expressed covenant of the whole German people could not be trusted, is probably the strongest and most pointedly worded document yet issued by the President, and goes to the heart of the matter.