[Vol51 | December 1964 | Page 946 | Lesson | Literature — Exploring Right and Wrong Attitudes through Literature: | Part II]
[Literature — Exploring Right and Wrong Attitudes through Literature: Part II]

Part II

(Text: Out of the Best Books, pp. 111-280)

For Third Meeting, March 1965

Objective: To demonstrate how literature dramatizes the evil of selfishness and affirms the ideal of unselfishness.

THE lesson for this month centers attention on four short stories: "Birthday Party" by Katherine Brush, "The New Dress" by Virginia Woolf, "The Dry Rock" by Irwin Shaw, and "Quality" by John Galsworthy. All four stories, with generous comments on each, are printed in full in the literature text, where they should be studied.

Fortunately, one of the four stories, "Birthday Party," is so short enough that it can be included in full in this lesson:

BIRTHDAY PARTY
by Katherine Brush

They were a couple in their late thirties, and they looked unmistakably married. They sat on the banquette opposite us in a little narrow restaurant, having dinner. The man had a round, self-satisfied face, with glasses on it; the woman was fadingly pretty, in a big hat. There was nothing conspicuous about them, nothing particularly noticeable, until the end of their meal, when it suddenly became obvious that this was an Occasion—in fact, the husband's birthday, and the wife had planned a little surprise for him.

It arrived, in the form of a small but glossy birthday cake, with one pink candle burning in the center. The headwaiter brought it in and placed it before the husband, and meanwhile the

946

LESSON DEPARTMENT

ing to crawl over the edge of a saucer with all the beautiful butterflies looking on and scorning her.

If one has tendencies to be like Mabel, great strength of will is necessary to throw off the self-pity and develop a healthy attitude toward oneself and one's environment. But it can be done. The first step is to recognize the tendencies, and the second step is to exert the constant will power necessary to overcome them. One purpose for including "The New Dress" in the literature text is that seeing the unwholesome qualities in Mabel may help us to detect them in ourselves if they are present.

Comments on "The Dry Rock"

Irwin Shaw (1913——) is a gifted contemporary American writer, and his story "The Dry Rock" is a very simple yet very powerful selection. It is easy to read and understand, its characters are distinctly drawn, and its message is explicit. A realistic richness of detail makes it remarkably convincing, effective, and, above all, meaningful.

The best way to approach this story is to start with an examination of its characters, all sharply focused and placed in opposition to each other. First there is Leopold Tarloff, the memory cab-driver—a little old man, pathetically proud, who years ago came from a distant land to a strange city to seek his fortune. Now, years later, he is just a little old man with a small job in a great city. Neither fame nor fortune has come to him, yet he still has what for him was always most important—his simple faith in honor and justice. And in contrast to this little cabby there is young Rusk, arrogant, noisy, disrespectful, and dishonest. His vulgar, slangy language immediately gives him away as unrefined and coarse.

The contrast between Mr. Fitzsimmons and his wife is almost as sharp. Fitzsimmons is moved by the plight of the old cabby and feels a strong duty to stand by him, even at the cost of a quarrel with his wife. He knows that the cabby's cause is just, and he feels a responsibility to do something for him. Mrs. Fitzsimmons, on the other hand, is as little concerned with justice as is Rusk; and her language, although more sophisticated, is just as crude and even more nastily sarcastic. She is utterly selfish. As to principle, of course she believes in it, as long as it doesn't inconvenience her—as long as it doesn't make her late for a dinner party.

As the story draws to its close, Tarloff stands all alone—abandoned high and dry on the rock of principle. Only after Fitzsimmons yields to the pressure of expediency and shrugs Tarloff off his conscience does the old cabby wearily know that he is defeated. Even then he maintains some integrity by refusing the ten dollars.

One value of such a story as this is that it brings dramatically into focus the need to live by principles. In an age when convenience and rush threaten to shape all our decisions, wherever we live, we need to be reminded that there are principles of hon-

949

DECEMBER 1964

esty and justice and freedom and purity so important that they must remain unviolated at any cost. It is also important to remember that if principles are sacrificed in small situations, they will be so weakened that they will not be strong enough to stand in big situations. Such a reminder, sharply given by this story, should make any thoughtful reader forever after a little more sensitive in conscience when confronted with a situation where principle is involved.

Comments on "Quality"

John Galsworthy (1867-1933), English author of "Quality," is principally known as a novelist (The Forsyte Saga, etc.) but is also an excellent short-story writer.

The three preceding stories discussed in this lesson all expose, in different ways, the evil of selfishness. In contrast, the old German bootmaker who is the central character of "Quality" is a genuinely good and thoroughly unselfish man, sympathetically portrayed by Galsworthy in such a way as at once to be both admired and pitied—admired for what he is, and pitied for what the world does to him.

There is something fine and beautiful and sad about this story. In an age when the emphasis is too much on quantity and too little on quality, when too many people have their eyes focused on what they get out of life rather than what they can give to life, when more and more people want more and more money for less and less work, and too much attention is given to time clocks and salary checks—in such an age this story serves as a poignant reminder that quality workmanship is both rare and valuable. Someone long ago said that he who works with his hands is a laborer, pity him; he who works with his hands and his head is a craftsman, respect him; and he who works with his hands and his head and his heart is an artist, honor him.

Surely no one can read this story without gaining a greater reverence for unselfish work and high-quality workmanship. There is a satisfaction in doing good work, not for praise or reward, but for integrity's sake, simply because "a thing worth doing is worth doing well." Such a story as this should make us ashamed of any work that is less than the best we are capable of doing, ashamed of any selfish short-cut or compromise that sacrifices quality — and should make us glow with respect whenever we see work of the highest quality done for its own sake and because of the honesty of the one who does it. For shoddy work is in fact a kind of dishonesty.

THOUGHTS FOR DISCUSSION

1. In "Birthday Party" what clues and hints does the author give to show the difference between the husband and wife and expose the failure of their marriage?

2. List as many as you can of Mabel's qualities in "The New Dress" and discuss to what extent these qualities all reflect aspects of selfishness. What could Mabel do to overcome these self-destructive qualities?

3. At the end of "The Dry

950

LESSON DEPARTMENT

Rock" whom does Fitzsimmons dislike even more than he dislikes his wife, and why?

4. In every day life are we confronted with situations when we must choose between principle and convenience? Mention some similar situations.

5. In "Quality," what qualities do we most admire in the old bootmaker?
