DECEMBER 1964 Lessons for March Lithographed in full color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: HM Three Shepherds, H. Armstrong Roberts Art Layout: J Dick Scopes Illustrations: HM Mary Scopes The Magazine are no emb of the Church especially enjoye th serial "Your Heart to jnderstanding,"" y Hazel M Thomson orked on 4 Primary stake poard with this dear sister many years ago. She is a very onderful person Mrs. Eva Kohkonen Helsinki Finlan I have just read the first chapter of "The Turn of the Wheel," bY Mabel Heidelberé: Germany). Myself, 1 relived piace 'S grea While I many! Erved in the Relief Society presidency Mary Stevenson Salt Lake City, utah Many thanks for The Relief Society i j o much, and my friends who are not meme wonderfu sisters in this branch of Relief Society i It is good to know that we have sisters in many \ands. Marion Hanna Portadown, Armagh Northern \reland 882, am mos grateful to my faithful Magazine epresentatlv Maudene South, f m_ the gden Fifty-third Ward W made it possib! For the Magazine to follow me to Tahiti, where \ a with my husband o is a Church pbuilding superv! Every ideas of things t } am busy gathering and pres g lovely Tahitian flowers to mak parchmen correspon ence ards as illustrated in the n I have been taking The Relief S0- ry thirt five years, i it. The many © hem in Book of embrance Percilla ndeen EI Monte alifornia lam writing to tell you of my deeP gratitude for The Relief Society Magazine, and 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1964 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 2642; Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a. Copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Monuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts A ger ee —