[Vol51 | December 1964 | Page 940 | Lesson | Visiting TeacChherri s tMinees s aHg.e R—o bi "nFsoorn the Word of the Lord Is Truth. . . ." | ]
[Visiting TeacChherri s tMinees s aHg.e R—o bi "nFsoorn the Word of the Lord Is Truth. . . ."]

DECEMBER 1964

The important counsel was given that each man should stand in his own office and none should say unto the other there was no need of him. (Verses 109-110.)

In this Priesthood revelation, it is appropriate to observe that the Priesthood, which gives life to the Church organization, marks the difference between the true Church of Jesus Christ and the dead forms of religion. Section 84 ends with a command that the Bishop of the Church carry the message of warning to certain large cities of the United States. In time, when the cup of iniquity is full, the Lord's power will be manifest, and he shall come to reign with his people. (Verses 111-120.)

QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION

1. What place does the Spirit of Christ have in the lives of people?
2. Discuss: Miracles are a characteristic of the true Church.
3. Acknowledging that miracles (healings, for example) are performed outside of the true Church, what ways does the member of the Church and his non-member friend have for testing which is the true Church?
4. What is the meaning of "the laborer is worthy of his hire"?
5. Name as many millennial conditions as possible in the song to be sung by the redeemed.

VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE
Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants

Christine H. Robinson

Message 62 — "For the Word of the Lord Is Truth, and Whatsoever Is Truth Is Light . . ." (D&C 84:45).

For First Meeting, March 1965

Objective: To explain the nature of truth and to show the importance of searching for it constantly.

THROUGHOUT the history of the world one of man's greatest quests has been in search of truth. Truth is the motive of the philosophers, the principal promoter of the poets, the compelling quest of the scientists, and the heart of all of man's religious yearnings.

The world and all that is in it move forward on the foundation of truth. It is the unchangeable basis of all of life's existence and of its progress and development. As emphasized in this quotation from the 84th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants, the

940

LESSON DEPARTMENT

Savior came into the world to restore truth and light. He established his gospel to lighten our paths through this mortal existence so that we might have life everlasting and have it more abundantly. The Savior's life was the personification of light and truth. He said, "I am the light of the world: he that followeth me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life" (John 8:12)

What is truth? Although this question has echoed down through the ages we are given the answer in modern revelation, "truth is knowledge of things as they are, as they were, and as they are to come" (D&C 93:24). One of our favorite hymns says:

Yes, say, what is truth? 'Tis the brightest prize
To which mortals or Gods can aspire;
Go search in the depths where it glittering lies
Or ascend in pursuit to the loftiest skies.
'Tis an aim for the noblest desire.
(John Jaques, Hymns, Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, page 143).

Our most important endeavor in this life is to seek and apply truth. A fundamental principle of the restored gospel is that man is saved no faster than he gains knowledge. Wisdom and knowledge are derived from truth. Truth brings progress. It is the foundation of happiness. It is the only path which leads to the full growth and development of the human soul.

One of the encouraging facts about truth is that it is all around us and is readily available to all of us who sincerely seek it.

Many years ago during a bad storm a cargo ship was driven far out of her course. She was badly disabled and in helpless condition. The tide carried her into a strange bay. The fresh water supply was soon exhausted on the ship and the crew suffered the agony of thirst. They dared not drink of the salt water in which they thought their vessel floated. Finally, in desperation, one of the sailors lowered a bucket over the ship's side and against the pleadings of his companions he tasted the beverage they all thought was sea water. To his great joy and amazement the water was fresh, cool, and life-giving. The boat had actually drifted into the mouth of a great river and fresh water was all around it. The sailors had simply to reach down and accept the new life and strength for which they had prayed. (Jordan, William George: Self Control, page 71.)

Like this life-giving water, truth, too, is all around us. If we are wise, like the thirsty sailors, we will reach out for the truth and make it part of our lives.

The Savior said, "And ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free" (John 8:32). To know the truth can make us free, free from sin, free from temptation, free from fear, and free to enjoy the glorious blessings and the full development of our talents and personalities. President Joseph F. Smith said, "If you will learn the truth and walk in the light of truth, ye shall be made free from the errors of men and of crafts; you will be above suspicion and above wrong-doing of every description" (Gospel Doctrine, page 10).

941
