[Vol51 | December 1964 | Page 898 | Special Feature | The 1964 Relief Society Annual General Conference | Hulda Parker]

the 1964 Relief Society Annual General Conference. Each leader was eagerly looking forward to receiving inspiration, specific instruction, and uplift that would enable her more effectively to carry forward and build up the work of Relief Society throughout the world.

The main floor and some of the balcony of the historic Tabernacle on Temple Square were filled as these stake and mission Relief Society leaders and also some Priesthood leaders assembled for the opening session on Wednesday morning, September 30, and united in spirit and voice for singing, "O Beautiful for Spacious Skies." The special music for this session was inspiringly rendered by a 200-voice chorus of Singing Mothers from the Kansas City Stake directed by Joyce H. Sanders and Josephine H. McCall. Elder Roy M. Darley accompanied at the organ and also provided beautiful prelude and postlude music.

President Belle S. Spafford, in her twentieth year of presiding over Relief Society, conducted all of the Tabernacle sessions of the conference, supported by her Counselors Marianne C. Sharp and Louise W. Madsen. President Spafford opened the conference with a report of the progress made by Relief Societies throughout the Church during 1963, gave pertinent instructions relative to new aspects of the Relief Society program, and re-emphasized certain basic policies for guiding the work.

The roll call conducted by Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker revealed the attendance at this session of 3,427 stake and 209 mission Relief Society leaders from 378 stakes and 23 missions throughout the Church.

President Joseph Fielding Smith and Elder Marion G. Romney, both Relief Society Advisers from the Council of the Twelve, addressed this session of the conference with stirring messages of instruction and encouragement. Elder Romney reminded the sisters of the important responsibility of mothers to bring up their children "in light and truth." He recommended as an aid for doing

898

1964 RELIEF SOCIETY ANNUAL GENERAL CONFERENCE

this, a study of the standard works of the Church and recognition of and obedience to the guidance of the Holy Spirit. President Smith, the concluding speaker for this session, contrasted and compared the status of women in the Church in this and previous dispensations; and spoke of the opportunities for the women of the Church for service through the divinely established organization of Relief Society. He referred to this as "a divinely appointed service so essential to the welfare of the Church."

For the general session on Wednesday afternoon, Relief Society members and the general public filled the Tabernacle and extended to an overflow audience in the Assembly Hall, where the conference proceedings were witnessed over television. Relief Society leaders were honored to have in attendance at this and also the preceding session of the conference several members of the General Authorities and their wives.

Of interest at this session was the sustaining of ten new general board members since the previous conference, making a total of forty-seven sisters presently serving on the General Board. Sister Winniefred S. Manwaring addressed this session. She spoke of the strength that comes into our lives through trusting in the Lord when coping with life's sorrows and difficulties.

President Spafford and her counselors gave inspiring messages to the women of the Church. President Spafford emphasized the value to mothers of wise and understanding hearts in training their children in the paths of righteousness. She cited salient teachings of spiritual leaders in this and former dispensations, setting forth guidance in training and rearing children. Counselor Sharp told of the blessings gained through Relief Society in helping women more fully to follow the admonition of the Savior to "take my yoke upon you." Counselor Madsen used as her theme that happiness is the purpose and design of existence and suggested factors essential to the achievement of happiness.

President N. Eldon Tanner, Second Counselor in the First Presidency and the principal speaker at the general session, delivered a moving message. He delighted the vast audience by sharing with them an interesting account of the success of the Singing Mothers Chorus which presented music at the American Mothers Awards Luncheon in New York City in May, and of the larger combined chorus which presented concerts at the New York World's Fair in June. He displayed to those assembled the large scrapbook containing clippings from 372 newspapers throughout the United States and in Canada relative to Relief Society and the Church resulting from the publicity given to these concerts. Elder Tanner then outlined the value of good example among parents in the home in properly influencing and training children.

This inspiring session was concluded by the glorious singing of "Onward Christian Soldiers" by the combined Singing Mothers Chorus from the Deseret, Gunnison, Juab, Millard, North San-

899

DECEMBER 1964

pete, South Sanpete, Garfield, North Sevier, Sevier, South Sevier, and Wayne Stakes. The chorus was directed by Sister Florence J. Madsen of the General Board, with Elder Roy M. Darley at the organ.

Due to building construction surrounding the Relief Society Building, the reception usually held on the Wednesday evening of the Conference for stake and mission officers had been cancelled.

The Thursday morning session on October 1 was a departmental meeting in the Tabernacle featuring the three courses of study and the visiting teacher messages for the coming season. The visiting teacher presentation "Beyond Each Door," written by Alberta H. Christensen, depicted blessings that may be realized in homes throughout the Church through application of the visiting teacher messages. The enlightenment that can come into a woman's life through study of the teachings contained in the Doctrine and Covenants was dramatically portrayed in the theology presentation "The Lighted Path," by Luacine C. Fox. "Out of the Best Books" was the title of the presentation written by Celestia J. Taylor introducing the new literature course which portrayed some of the authors to be studied and some of the selections. The textbook with this same title which had been prepared at the direction of the General Board was also featured. The concluding year of the social science course of study, "Divine Law and Church Government," which has been written by Dr. Ariel S.

Ballif, was featured by an excellent address by Dr. Ballif. The message of the course was further highlighted through impressive scriptural readings by Genevieve F. Wright and a beautiful duet by J. Stuart and Clara McMaster.

Separate departments for presidencies, secretary-treasurers, music leaders, Magazine representatives, visiting teacher message leaders, theology, literature, and social science class leaders, and work meeting leaders were conducted in the afternoon for the respective stake and mission leaders, at which specific instructions related to the various areas of the work were presented. An outstanding display of articles suitable for work meeting activities was a part of the work meeting department. General Authorities addressed two of the departments — Elder Harold B. Lee, a Relief Society Adviser from the Council of the Twelve, spoke to stake and mission Relief Society presidencies. Elder Lee emphasized the importance of gospel teaching in the home and told of the plan for coordinating these teachings in the home through the Priesthood, with special emphasis on the responsibility of Relief Society members as mothers in this home teaching. Elder Paul H. Dunn of the First Council of Seventy discussed with theology class leaders techniques for conducting stimulating class discussions to assure the sisters gaining the most from the lessons.

As the respective departmental sessions concluded, a spirit of gratitude for the blessings of the past two days filled the hearts

900

of all in attendance, with a resolve to carry back to the ward and branch leaders in the respective areas the instructions as well as the spirit of this great Relief Society conference.

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Relief Society General Board

Front row left to right: Jennie R. Scott; Evon W. Peterson; Wealtha S. Mendenhall; Mary R. Young; Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor; General President Belle S. Spafford; Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor; Hulda Parker, Secretary-Treasurer; and Josie B. Bay.

Second row: Fannie S. Kienitz, Marjorie C. Pingree, LaRue H. Rosell, Afton W. Hunt, Elsa T. Peterson, Mary B. Cameron, Elna P. Haymond, Winniefred S. Manwaring, and Blanche B. Stoddard.

Third row: Cleone R. Eccles, Irene C. Lloyd, Lola J. McGhie, Alice L. Wilkinson, Hazel S. Love, Alberta H. Christensen, Anna B. Hart, Oa J. Cannon, Fawn H. Sharp, and Anne R. Gledhill.

Fourth row: Edith S. Elliott, Darlene C. Dedekind, Lila B. Walch, Mildred B. Eyring, Florence J. Madsen, Elizabeth B. Winters, Belva B. Ashton, Irene W. Buehner, Leone G. Layton, and Lenore C. Gundersen.

Members not present: Aleine M. Young, Edith P. Backman, Celestia J. Taylor, Edythe K. Watson, Ellen N. Barnes, Kathryn S. Gilbert, Verda F. Burton, Myrtle R. Olson, and Alice C. Smith.

901

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a man in military uniform giving flowers to a woman in an orange dress, with a mirror visible in the background]

The
