[Vol51 | December 1964 | Page 917 | Home | Strawberries Decorate a | Holiday Table]
[Strawberries Decorate a Holiday Table]

STRAWBERRIES DECORATE A HOLIDAY TABLE

The centerpiece is a basket filled with strawberry plants in small pots. The pots are covered with green artificial moss, and artificial strawberries are arranged among the leaves of the plants, and decorate also the handles of the basket. White plates, with a red strawberry design, are placed on red place mats, and red water glasses are used to add to the colorful effect of this holiday table setting. The large fresh strawberries arranged on the plates are centered by a mound of powdered sugar. To make the mound, press powdered sugar into moulds, then turn upside down and tap gently to release the sugar.

The favors are individual jars of strawberry jam (or preserves) tied with artificial strawberries. The recipe for the jam is an excellent one which makes a tasty jam of a rich red color.

Hull and wash four cups of strawberries (fresh frozen berries can be substituted). Do not slice or mash the berries. Add five cups of sugar and let the mixture stand three hours. Then bring to a boil over low heat and boil hard for eight minutes. Add one-half cup of fresh lemon juice and let mixture boil two minutes longer. Remove from the heat and alternately stir and skim as the jam cools, to prevent floating berries. Pour into jelly jars or glasses, of a size desired for the favors.

For a holiday luncheon the fresh strawberries make a suitable first course.

ARRANGEMENT BY FLORENCE C. WILLIAMS                           TRANSPARENCY BY HAL RUM

[PHOTOGRAPH: Interior dining room scene showing a holiday table setting with strawberry-themed decorations, including a basket centerpiece with strawberry plants, red place settings, white plates with strawberry designs, and various decorative elements on a wooden dining table with chairs]

"Golden" Pictures Made From Keepsakes

Beatrice S. Poelman

WHAT memento have you tucked away in a box growing discolored and unattractive as the years go by? Is it a bit of lace that grandmother wore at her throat, or a pair of worn-out pillowcases embroidered so lovingly and painstakingly for your trousseau? Or is it a faded dresser scarf? A pretty jabot or dicky that you were so proud of, too, is hard to throw in the wastebasket. Have I guessed it? You have some of these folded away in the back of a drawer. Well, whatever you have hidden away, why not bring it out in the open for all to admire and enjoy? Let's make a picture out of it!

A piece of material embroidered in flowers found among my mother's things after her death, gave me the inspiration to create some pictures which have pleased my children and grandchildren. Over the years mother had cherished this piece of embroidery because it was made by her first daughter who died, when just nineteen, at the birth of her baby girl. Knowing how mother felt about this keepsake, I hated to throw it away. Yet the cloth was stained and even falling to pieces where it had been folded so many years. Still, the stitches were neat and the design attractive. What could I do with it? Suddenly the idea came to me to paint the flowers gold, cut them out, and mount them on an attractive background. I could hardly wait to get started!

I found by laying the material over paper I could paint without causing a mess even though some of the paint came through the material. The work went fast, too, because it didn't matter if the gold extended beyond the embroidery as it was to be cut away.

918                    TRANSPARENCIES BY HAL RUMEL

anyway. I discovered, too, that when the gold paint dried, the material had more body so it could be cut more easily and did not fray.

I cut a piece of cardboard the size of the picture needed for the frame I wanted to use and mounted the cloth background on that. (I used glue around the edges and some through the center. Any library paste or rubber cement can be used.)

The first picture I made I used an off-white brocade damask for the background upon which the gold flowers had quite a French air. Since then I have used various colors of velvet, faille, satin, and even wool upholstery. They all make interesting pictures, but, with the light-weight materials, care must be taken not to use too much glue or it comes through the material. I have mounted these by cutting the material larger than the cardboard and fastening the overlapping edges to the back with masking tape.

Now comes the fun of working out a design! The pieces of gold embroidery or lace, whether flowers or conventional designs, suggest patterns as you move them around on the background, and before long something interesting will be developing whether it be a dainty wreath or a bold conventional design. And some grandchild will love a picture made from grandmother's old dresser scarf or neck-piece.

A few hints I have found helpful: (1) Make the complete design before gluing, then place a spot of glue under the piece by means of a toothpick. Not too much glue is needed. (2) Holding the design so that it can be seen in a mirror helps to see if the design is symmetrical better than looking at it directly. (3) If it is necessary to change the position of a design and some glue shows on the background, let it dry completely, then remove it by stroking along the grain of the material with a needle point. (4) Spraying the gold on is not as economical as brushing it on or even using a piece of cloth with which to rub it on.

919

[PHOTOGRAPH]

TRANSPARENCIES BY HAL RUMEL
