[Vol51 | December 1964 | Page 884 | Special Feature | Effects of Home Influence N. | Eldon Tanner]

Effects
of
Home
Influence

President N. Eldon Tanner
of the First Presidency

(Address Delivered at the General
Session of the Relief Society Annual
General Conference, September 30, 1964)

I stand before you, my brothers and sisters, in all humility, and pray that the spirit of the Lord will be with us, as it has been through this meeting. I wish to congratulate this chorus of Singing Mothers for the lovely singing they have rendered for us this afternoon. I have appreciated and been inspired by the lovely talks that have been given. Though this is a humbling experience, it is indeed a privilege and a joy to bring greetings and blessings from the First Presidency to you assembled in this great Relief Society conference. Ten thousand leaders of the greatest women's organization in the world! What an inspiring sight! What a lovely sweet spirit we have had with us today! And what a wonderful work you are doing for the members of the Relief Society and for all who need your help, and for the Church as a whole; and, in fact, your influence is being felt throughout the world.

ACCOMPLISHMENTS OF
RELIEF SOCIETY

You have been reminded time after time that your Relief Society was organized under the inspiration and direction of a Prophet of God. Your devoted leaders, Sister Spafford, Sister Sharp, and Sister Madsen are carrying on under the direction of a loving, inspired prophet today. You all know how President McKay loves and respects the mothers and women in the Church, in fact, all womanhood.

I quote from one of his statements: "A beautiful, modest, gracious woman is creation's masterpiece; when to these virtues a woman possesses, as guid-

884

EFFECTS OF HOME INFLUENCE

ing stars in her life, righteousness and godliness, and an irresistible impulse and desire to make others happy, no one will question if she be classed among those who are truly great."

President McKay is truly a prophet of God and what a strength you must feel in knowing that he loves you and is praying for your success and well-being every day. Also, with the association of your Advisers, the General Authorities, and with the President of the Church himself, you have the guidance of the Priesthood, which is not enjoyed by any other women's organization in the world.

The work and accomplishments of this great organization have been outstanding throughout the years. I should like to refer to two real contributions and accomplishments this year with which I am personally acquainted.

THE SINGING MOTHERS

First, is the Singing Mothers who sang at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel in New York City in May, at the time of the Awards Luncheon of the American Mothers Committee Incorporated.

The other is the Singing Mothers who sang in July at the New York World's Fair. As Sister Tanner and I attended the Singing Mothers Concert at the World's Fair, we were deeply impressed, in fact, we were thrilled to be members of the Church to which they belonged. Though the people were there to see the sights of the World's Fair, they remained by the hundreds to hear the chorus to the end, and, at the close, they gave a standing ovation of appreciation. The women were inspired; they had fasted and prayed; they sang more beautifully as a result of the Spirit of the Lord which accompanied them, and which was felt by those who listened.

I have here today a scrapbook which contains news clippings from 372 newspapers, scattered throughout forty States of the Union, and one from Canada. I cannot show you these so you can see them, but it certainly is encouraging to me and helps me understand how this great work is appreciated throughout this country.

We see pictures that these big newspapers in California and other States use — space like this where the pictures of the Singing Mothers are shown. Here is another one, and they are scattered throughout this book. Here they have given another space for the picture of the Church Pavilion at the Fair. I could show you several others, but you cannot see them from where you are, but it does show how the influence of the Singing Mothers has been felt throughout this country.

As I look through the book, I find a number of articles from each of the following states: California, Indiana, Massachusetts, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, and Texas, and others. Though I cannot vouch for the statistics and the figures which are given here, I want you to know what the world is saying about our Singing Mothers and the effect they are having in different areas. I want to read these, because then you know just what is being said about the

885

DECEMBER 1964

work of this great organization, the Singing Mothers, whom the world knows.

From the Toronto Telegram, Canada, May 9, 1964:

None of the women drink or smoke and they are encouraged to keep their figures by diet. . . . They are taught how to dress, sit, walk, apply make-up, and generally present their best self to the world . . . From instruction by Relief Society members, Mormon women make their own clothes and put on a fashion show. . . . They study the finest literature in courses rated at university level. . . . Another of their sayings is "Under the refining influence of Mormonism, we develop gifts within us."

From the Washington Post, in Washington, D. C., by Ann Wood, May 10, 1964:

One hundred and twenty women from the District, Maryland and Virginia, have been meeting every Monday since early March to rehearse for their appearance today with the Singing Mothers Chorus at the New York World's Fair; and, wasting no time, have spent all of the scheduled three hours singing each Monday.

Under the direction of Ellen Barnes, who commutes the rest of each week to Boston, New York, and Philadelphia, to rehearse the two hundred women in other sections of the chorus; the women came from as far away as one hundred seventy miles to participate.

Members of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (Mormon), the women began last Monday with a prayer "to go forth as a missionary group and further Thy work here" and then rehearsed today's program of religious, patriotic, and popular favorites including, "How Lovely Is Thy Dwelling Place," "Give Me Your Poor, Your Tired," and "You'll Never Walk Alone."

Mrs. Barnes, looking calm and composed, in spite of her hectic schedule, commented that a spirit of service is a major reason for the quality of the Mormon singing groups.

Now we go to the Boston Sunday Globe, Massachusetts, by Mary Sarah King, May 31, 1964:

The Relief Society, which has been described as "Mormon Angels of Mercy," is the oldest national women's organization in America. It started one hundred twenty-two years ago, and it now has five thousand five hundred chapters around the globe, comprising 262,000 members in fifty-two countries.

One of its activities for self-improvement and self-expression, the chorus of Singing Angels, enables its members to sing "for the sheer joy of singing" — a vital part of the Mormon religion.

Mrs. Ward C. Lowe, Newton Center, President of the Relief Society, pointed out that of the four hundred mothers, who form the Boston chorus, seventy-five percent are converts, "mainly of old Yankee stock."

When writing their stories on the appearance of the Singing Mothers at the Fair, the reporters also included much general Church information, such as membership statistics and growth, and missionary work, aims and ideals, etc. I should like to read just a little of that.

From the Patriot Ledger, Quincy, Massachusetts, by Dorothy Newell, Patriot Ledger Religion Editor, May 29, 1964:

An intense love for God and their fellowmen has earned respect for Mormon missionaries in this area. . . .

In Weston where a ward has been organized only a few years almost a hundred percent growth has occurred in two years. . . .

The Mormons offer no case in Zion that might appeal to non-members.

Instead, it would seem emphasis on tithing, strict Sabbath observance, temperance, and church attendance would be a deterrent rather than an attraction.

In addition there is the unorthodox acceptance of a temporal leader as

886

EFFECTS OF HOME INFLUENCE

"the Lord's appointed prophet," and the Book of Mormon as the "Word of God."

Nevertheless, the Mormon wards and branches are thriving on a weekly schedule that dwarfs the programs of most Protestant and many Roman Catholic churches.

Then I come to the St. Paul Pioneer Press, St. Paul, Minnesota, by Georgann Koelln, May 9, 1964:

Mother's place is in the home, according to the basic tenets of the nation's oldest women's organization, the Women's Relief Society of the Mormon Church. Members of the organization's two St. Paul chapters are doing their best to make that place a more interesting one, and the experience of motherhood a more enriching one.

Now we come to this big paper, the New York Herald Tribune, by Louise Sweeney, July 2, 1964. They start out by saying:

Bach chorales, cranberry relish, and compassion are all part of a program the Mormon church has mapped out for its women.

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (known as the Mormon Church), established a woman's Relief Society one hundred twenty two years ago, and it is still going strong. Just a few days ago, one of its channels, the Mormon Singing Mothers, gave a series of concerts in the Church's World's Fair Pavilion; but it is not all Bach and Brahms in the society. In one of the groups' four weekly meetings each month, members learn how to do everything from baking bread to burping a baby.

Mrs. Belle Spafford, President of the Society for the past twenty years, explains the homemaking sessions. "If I am not interested in baking bread, but I have a little girl who needs a coat lined, there is something there for me." The something may be learning the thread count in a sheet or the cheaper cuts of meat. It may even be a course in world literature,

which is on the agenda for the coming year.

There is just no limit to the society's tie-ins between the art of homemaking and the other arts. An article in the current Relief Society Magazine is titled, "Emily Dickinson: Occupation - Housekeeper." Readers may bridle at describing the concise poet as a housekeeper, but they can't quarrel with the recipe given for Emily Dickinson's gingerbread.

Now I could go on and read. In fact, I had several others here. The Women's Editor of the United Press International, Gay Pauley, wrote a syndicated article which appeared in many of the newspapers, and from which they selected the words for the headlines on the stories, which seemed to carry a general theme, such as: "Mothers Give Pleasure With Music," "Singing Mothers Have Lighter Hearts," "Music Is Good for Women, Good for the Home."

The opening statement of her story, and she was quoting Sister Spafford, is: "Singing is good for a woman, good for the home. Women who sing have lighter hearts and happier viewpoints."

I was thrilled to see what a wide coverage the Singing Mothers Concerts were given and how favorably they were reported.

Now, Sister Spafford, as President of the Relief Society, is also making her influence felt in the women's world organizations, where she is being listened to and highly respected by women who are in very important positions.

The executives of these organizations include leading women from all parts of the world, who are beginning to recognize the high standards of Relief Society and the effect it has on its members and on the community as a whole.

887

DECEMBER 1964

AMERICAN MOTHERS RESOLUTION

Now, I should like to read a resolution. This resolution was passed by the American Mothers Committee Incorporated, at the Waldorf-Astoria and signed by Mrs. Dorothy Lewis, the President of this organization:

Whereas the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints contributed most generously to the success and pleasure of the annual conference of the American Mothers Committee Incorporated, Waldorf-Astoria, New York, May 3-8, 1964.

Be it resolved that the American Mothers Committee in convention assembled expresses its sincere appreciation for the inspiring presentation of the New York Singing Mothers of the 1964 Awards Luncheon at the Waldorf Astoria, which markedly moved the audience, and which furnished the highlight of the occasion.

I should like to read an excerpt from a letter from Mr. Ralf Brent, who is president of the World-Wide Broadcasting Association, which is addressed to Mrs. Dorothy Lewis, a copy of which was sent to Sister Spafford:

At your American Mothers Committee luncheon at the Waldorf, I saw something which happens all too rarely these days in the United States. I saw an audience of a thousand people become emotionally involved in some simple basics of life which are often forgotten or ignored. Our veneer of sophistication about our way of life has become so thick that we rarely dare to dig into the strength of the great underneath. When the Singing Mothers sang Emma Lazarus' magnificent words, taken from the base of the Statue of Liberty, I realized how many of us no longer believe that this is the country of "the poor, the tired, and the tempest tossed." This magnificent experience made those of us who were there believe again. It must be done over and over. Everyone in America should have been able to

share this renewal of the true American spirit.

Then he goes on to say to the President:

"Dorothy, you are without doubt one of the great women in America and in the world. I cannot tell you how tremendous your American Mothers luncheon was. I cannot explain to myself why we did not broadcast it Is there a tape available?"

THE INFLUENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY

Now the work that the Relief Society organization is doing and all that will be done can only be accomplished by the individual members doing their part, and, in fact, one of the great strengths of this Church is the individual testimonies of its members and the lives they live. The old saying that "the hand that rocks the cradle rules the world" is certainly true to the extent that the influence in the home determines more than anything else the ideals, the ambitions, the attitudes, the vision and success of that individual.

I should like to quote from a talk given by President McKay at the time of the dedication of your lovely Relief Society Building:

In more than one instance in the life of fiery youth, this lingering influence has proved a safeguard in the hour of temptation — an influence in its restraining power greater than the threat of the law of the land, the ostracism of society, or the fear of violating a command of God. In a moment of youthful recklessness the youth might defy one or all of these forces, and do what his hot blood bade, but at the critical moment, the flash of a mother's confiding trust, the realization of her sorrow if he fail to be true to it have given him power to refrain from indulgence that might blight his entire career.

888

EFFECTS OF HOME INFLUENCE

Not only the mother, but the entire influence of home also influences society. Indeed, home is the foundation of civilized society. Words uttered and the doctrines taught around the fireside are the influences that shape the destinies of empires. . . .

Of all human influences those of home are the most far-reaching in their results. . . .

"There are many men who owe their honor, their integrity, and their manhood to the influence of pure minded sisters" (The Relief Society Magazine, December 1956, pp. 805, 806).

Now as members of this superior organization and as mothers in Israel, as wives and those who are neither wives nor mothers but members of the families which make up the community, you have a marvelous opportunity and a heavy responsibility of making the family and community life exemplary in every way.

Every daily paper and magazine we pick up today seems to carry amazing and startling reports of juvenile delinquency, vandalism, hooliganism, and youth riots, etc. The causes or contributing factors are all too numerous and are listed as follows: too much money, too much leisure time, boredom, unrest, lack of responsibility, etc. But the home environments are listed as the principal contributing cause.

One of the reports of the White House Conference for Children and Youth points out that among the principal contributing causes of crime and delinquency in youth are faulty family relationships and unwholesome home environment. The report further emphasizes the fact that the bad example of adults is one of the worst contributing causes of drinking, dishonesty, and delinquency.

J. Edgar Hoover places great emphasis on the influence of the home and appeals to parents to have a high religious and moral standard of living. Just the other day I read an article, entitled, "Wild Youth: a World-wide Problem," by Geoffrey Lucy. He listed startling examples of what is going on in different parts of the world.

He said that in France, four fifteen-year-old girls wrote statements on separate sheets of paper, saying that one would commit suicide, another would steal, the third be good, and the fourth take a lover. The girls then drew lots, and a few days later, each one carried out the "promise" she had drawn.

In Britain last spring, this writer reported, eight hundred "rowdies" and four hundred of their girl friends journeyed to Clacton on scooters and motorcycles and indulged in a three-day riot which scandalized the country.

The author related the incident of a seventeen-year-old boy in Brazil who drove his car at full speed through traffic lights in Rio de Janeiro just to see what would happen. He and his fifteen-year-old girl friend were killed, as well as another motorist who was involved in the collision.

The author says that the greatest amount of crime, vandalism, and all kinds of delinquency is found in large cities, and, particularly, in countries where they are most prosperous. He points out that they have much money, but they seem to have neither idealism nor a desire to learn. They are characteristically aimless except when they are

889

DECEMBER 1964

planning some spectacular activity to relieve their pervading sense of boredom. Then they exhibit remarkable energy and enthusiasm, and urge each other to "keep going!"

He refers to all of this as "hooliganism," and says that it is on the increase among children of the well-to-do. When asked as to why they do these things, a variety of answers was given, including such motivations as "for kicks," finding something to do with their surplus time and money, or, as one Italian boy explained his reasons for hooliganism, he wanted to demonstrate his capability of doing just as he pleased.

In the article the author considers remedies for such dangerous anti-social behavior, particularly in nations where a high standard of living seems to have an influence on the prevalence of hooliganism.

In Denmark some progress has already been made, and the trend towards some abatement of delinquency and vandalism gives heartening encouragement. Many different types of activities for young people have been organized and offered as substitutes for delinquency and lawlessness. These programs include drama, sports, many types of handicraft, special, supervised entertainment for the holidays, and some assistance to individuals in the school curriculum.

THE INFLUENCE OF THE CHURCH

As I read this, I thought how fortunate we in the Church are to have the Church organization which provides all of these

things, with devoted leadership for our youth, and how important it is that we as parents and older members of the family support these and encourage our youth to take advantage of their opportunities in these activities.

A plan to counteract vandalism in Norway is based upon utilizing the services of reformed vandals who volunteer to guard Frogner Park, where there are many world-famous works of sculpture and other attractions. The boys who are selected for this purpose also patrol the public swimming pools and become passengers on the Oslo street cars to guard against the slashing of the upholstery in the seats, and other deliberate acts of vandalism. These reformed delinquents seem to find that being on the side of the law can be as challenging as to indulge in illegal activities.

The conclusion of the discussion is particularly illuminating and significant. The inference is made that these and other remedies which may be put into practice, can be only palliatives, for there seems to be agreement among social workers in every country that the essential solutions to the "thrill" activities of "wild youth" are to be sought in the homes of every land.

In the same article there is a quotation from Sir John Hunt, Director of the Duke of Edinburgh's Award Scheme for Youth, which strongly emphasizes the responsibility of parents in training, directing, and governing their children, and that children need the help of parents, not their "recrimination."

It is inferred that prosperity makes the parental responsibility

890

EFFECTS OF HOME INFLUENCE

even more difficult. Some parents are handicapped in their efforts to train their children by their own desires and their emphasis upon material possessions — a practice which they sometimes pursue to obtain social status. Deceptions are practiced for business advancement, and there may be a callous adherence to many forms of intolerance. All of these practices can become the seeds of misconduct and lawlessness in children, for children are prone to pattern their attitudes and their activities from examples they have encountered in their own homes.

RESPONSIBILITY IN THE HOME

As President McKay has said, and I should like to emphasize the fact, our greatest responsibility is to our family and the home, and for all of us to live exemplary lives wherever we may be. The Church has given us certain standards and teachings which we accept, and which if lived, will contribute more than anything else to high ideals and good citizenship.

I have said many times, and am thoroughly convinced, that if the adults of the community would live as they should religiously, and hold to moral standards which they profess, we would have no juvenile delinquency problems. On the other hand, you have heard it said, and it is true, that by example you can teach a child to hate almost anything, even going to Church. Many of those who speak of and worry so much about delinquency continue to encourage it by their daily actions.

How fortunate is the child who lives in a home where the gospel is lived and taught; where there is complete love and harmony; where it is expressed in word and deed by the father to the mother, the mother to the father, and they to the children, and the children to one another; where they are taught to say: "Please," "Thank you," "I love you," "Your hair looks beautiful," "I surely like your dress," "Your talk was very good," "I certainly was proud of you today," and to live in a home where mother extols the virtues of the father.

PRAYER IN THE HOME

What a great influence it has on the child's life when every night and morning the family kneels down in family prayer, and the child realizes that the father or the mother, when leading in prayer, is actually talking to God; that he or she has faith in the Lord; presents his problems, expresses his gratitude, and asks for the blessings of the Lord to attend them in all that they do, knowing that if you "Counsel with the Lord in all thy doings . . . he will direct thee for good" (Alma 37:37).

How important it is that we express our heartfelt gratitude every day for the blessings we receive, and not call on the Lord only when we are in difficulty and feel seriously the need of his help, guidance, and direction. When I think of the influence of family prayer in my life, I cannot fully express my feeling of gratitude to my parents.

Albert Einstein, speaking of the influence of example, once said:

891

DECEMBER 1964

I am absolutely convinced that no wealth in the world can help humanity forward, even in the hands of the most devoted worker in this cause. The example of great and pure individuals is the only thing that can lead us to noble thoughts and deeds. Money only appeals to selfishness and irresistibly invites abuse. Can anyone imagine Moses, Jesus or Gandhi armed with the moneybags of Carnegie?

I like the Chinese proverb: "Not the cry, but the flight of the wild duck, leads the flock to fly and follow." We can do more good by example than in any other way.

COURTESY IN THE FAMILY

If the senior members of the family could just realize that as they move from place to place in the home, as they meet one another, as they speak on the telephone, as they show the proper courtesy and respect for one another, they greatly influence the lives of the younger ones, I am sure they would strive to be better examples.

What a wonderful influence it would have in the home if we would sincerely set about to treat the members of the family as though they were honored guests in our home. President and Sister McKay are real examples of this.

I was thrilled when I read an article by Sister McKay in which she said:

I am very, very proud of my husband. He is just as lovely, just as courteous, just as polite, just as kind, just as sweet in our home as he is anywhere else, and I am very proud of him. And I am very grateful for him. I cannot see a thing wrong with him. And I pray that our brethren

will try to follow his example in every way, shape and form.

A short time ago I was talking to a man whom I would like to see reactivated, and I told him how much activity in the Church would help him and his family. He said, "I have as neighbors a family who are considered to be good Church members. The other day I heard her yelling at her husband, and have heard her yell at her children so that I could hear everything she was saying, and I cannot believe that there is a feeling of love in that home."

Now this is certainly not good advertising for the Church, and it is not good for the members of the family. We should always be kind to and considerate of one another and of our neighbors. In fact, as one author has said, "Our business is to make ourselves better and others happier, and that is enough to keep us busy."

I have known of youth and new converts who have become inactive and left the Church because of actions of members. I have often asked myself, as I am sure you have, what effect are my life and my actions having on those around me, my children, my neighbors, and my friends?

Gossip in the home, too, is a very dangerous practice, and should not be indulged in. Very often that which you hear is not true, and if it were, it does not do anyone any good to talk disparagingly about his neighbor. As the beautiful song says, "If you're the first a fault to see, be not the first to make it known." We must love one another.

Jesus said:

892

EFFECTS OF HOME INFLUENCE

... Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind.

This is the first and great commandment.

And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself.

On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets (Matt. 22:37-40).

RESPECT FOR AUTHORITY

Respect for authority should be taught in the home. It is most important. Children can be taught by the way we act, respect for one another and respect for authority. If a mother or father were to say nothing more than, "I just don't know why the bishop did that," or "why the stake president doesn't do this," or "why the General Authority said that," it is enough to cause the child to wonder if his father or mother does actually support those in authority. It may be that we do not agree, or we cannot understand why things are done as they are done in the Church, but let it always be known that we are prepared and determined to support those who are in authority, knowing that by so doing we cannot go wrong.

Do your children know beyond any question of doubt that the gospel means more to you than anything else in the world, that you know that it is true and that it is the plan of life and salvation, and that by living it, it will give you the greatest joy and success in this life, and that it will also prepare you to go back into the presence of our Heavenly Father?

Before a teacher is chosen to teach at the Brigham Young University, he is interviewed by one of the General Authorities to determine his worthiness. He is expected to have a testimony which radiates wherever he goes. He should be prepared to keep the Sabbath day holy; be a full tithepayer, and be honest, honorable, and upright in all he does, and keep the Word of Wisdom strictly. Now in interviewing these applicants, I have taken the position that I would much rather have a nonmember teaching at Brigham Young University than to have a Latter-day Saint teacher who is not prepared to live according to the standards of the Church. That's how important I think example is.

The same is true in the home. If the parents break the Word of Wisdom in any way, if they go golfing or swimming, etc., on the Sabbath, no matter what they try to teach their children to do, they leave the impression that it is not important, that it is not necessary to keep the commandments, and to live according to the teachings of the gospel. It is only natural that they want to do as their parents do.

Even the way we greet our Home Teachers as they come to visit us can have a great influence on the lives of our children. If we make them welcome, accept them as representatives of the bishop, and listen to them with respect, it will have a great influence for good.

On the other hand, if we act as though they are imposing on our time, or inconveniencing us in any way, the far-reaching bad effect cannot be measured. Though our children are born in the Church, they are investigators at

893

DECEMBER 1964

best. They need to be taught the gospel by precept as well as by example.

No story is more thrilling and exciting to a child than that of the Prophet Joseph going into the woods to pray, and that God the Father and his Son Jesus Christ appeared to him and talked to him. They can listen to it over and over again. Then to be told how he withstood all temptations, though he was criticized and ridiculed and abused, and had no Sunday School or Church to attend from the time he was fifteen until eighteen years of age; how the angel appeared to him; and how John the Baptist and Peter, James, and John came to him, can be most impressive.

In fact, there is nothing more appealing to children than the beautiful stories contained in the Bible, the Book of Mormon, and in Church history, and the simple principles of the gospel as taught by The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.

Now, my brothers and sisters, I should like to bear you my testimony to the truthfulness of the gospel as taught by The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I wish to assure you that if you take this gospel seriously, and you must, into your homes and each of you live it every day in your community, your influence will be felt and you will be filling your mission here upon the earth.

I further wish to bear my witness that God does live, that Jesus is the Christ, and that they are interested in us, and stand ready to answer our prayers. Further, that we have at the head of the Church today a prophet of God directing this work.

May we all be worthy of these things, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

___________
