[Vol51 | December 1964 | Page 895 | Special Feature | Edythe Kimball Watson Ellen | Neilson Barnes]

Edythe Kimball Watson, Salt Lake City, Utah, was appointed to the General Board of Relief Society, September 30, 1964. A daughter of S. Farnham Kimball and Margaret Dunn Kimball, she was born in Raymond, Alberta, Canada. Her parents on both sides of the family were of illustrious Latter-day Saint heritage and devoted to the Church. She is a great-granddaughter of Heber C. Kimball, who was a counselor to President Brigham Young. She was educated in the Raymond High School and the L.D.S. University.

Her Church work has included teaching and executive positions in Sunday School and the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association, and many years of Relief Society service. She has been a ward class leader in social science and theology, and a visiting teacher message leader, counselor, and president. She has acted in a stake capacity as literature and social science class leader, and as president.

Sister Watson and her husband John Francis Watson are parents of Jane Ellen W. Hales, President of Butte Stake Mutual Improvement Association, and mother of the two Watson grandchildren; John Kimball Watson, who with his wife Barbara Brown Watson are students at the University of Utah; Mark Kimball Watson and Mary Francis Watson, high school students.

Ellen Neilson Barnes, appointed to the General Board on September 30, 1964 was born in Logan, Utah, a daughter of Peter M. Neilson and Adelaide Cornelia Keaton. She was educated at the Brigham Young College in Logan and at the New England Conservatory of Music. She studied in Paris and Berlin.

Sister Barnes has contributed her music talents freely to Church and community activities in Washington, D.C. She is a concert pianist and chorister in Washington Stake. She directed the chorus of Singing Mothers from New York and New Jersey Stakes at the Rainbow Awards Luncheon for the American Mother of 1964 at the Waldorf-Astoria. She also directed the three hundred Singing Mothers' Concerts at the World's Fair on June 24 and 25, 1964, with Sister Florence Madsen as an associate conductor.

Sister Barnes' husband is Maurice Barnes, an attorney. They are parents of two sons and two daughters. Maurice Jr. and David both filled missions in England. Mary Ellen (Mrs. Thomas H. Caine) lives in Madison, Wisconsin, and Carolyn is a student at the University of Utah.

Sister Barnes brings to the General Board an inspiring personality, a devotion to the Church and Relief Society, and the great gift of music.

895

[PHOTOGRAPH] [PHOTOGRAPH]
