WATERTON LAKE AND MT. VIMY Women in Industry By Ruth UST how or when it was first J discovered that women were inferior to men is not exactly explained. John Stuart Mills, in his essay on the subjection of woman says, "It arose simply from the fact that from the very earliest twilight of human society, every woman (owing to the value attached to her by men combined with her inferiority in muscular strength) was found in a state of bondage to some man. Laws and systems of polity always begin with recognizing the relations they find already existing between individuals. They convert what was a mere physical fact into a legal right which, of course, receives the sanction of society." ISTORY tells us that ancient Greece, within a century, produced seventy-six women poets, the incomparable Sapho being one of them. As early as the fourth and fifth century B. C. Women of the hetaira, because of their friendly intercourse with men became their ad- 'visors and counselors. One Aspasia especially is renowned as being the companion of the famous statesman Pericles, and is said fo have written some of his best speeches. Scores of others were famous in that distant day in philosophy, geometry, astronomy, and general mathematics. Hypatia, daughter of Theon, a distinguished mathematician and astronomer, became so proficient under the tutorage of her father that she excelled him in his arts. OME also produced many learned women. "For nearly fifteen centuries St. Jerome has had May Fox the gratitude of the church for his masterly translation, known as the Vulgate of the Hebrew Scriptures, but had it not been for his two noble friends, Paula and Eustochium, who were as eminent for their intellectual attainments as they were for their descent from the most distinguished families of Rome and Greece, there would have been no Vulgate, for they were not only his inspirers in this colossal undertaking, but they were his active and zealous collaborators as well. All of which St. Jerome gladly admitted, and it is refreshing to read in Biblical lore: "She considereth a field and buyeth it, with the fruits of her hands she planteth a vineyard. Bw it was a long, dark trail from the glory of Greece and Rome to the beginning of the struggle for a renewal of these privileges. During the so-called "Dark Ages" civilization passed through a cloud so dense that education was driven largely into convents. From these, however, women were not excluded. Indeed, they had great opportunities for exceptional training in letters, but under the rule of King Henry VIII the convents were closed, and in lieu thereof, colleges sprang into existence solely in the interest of men. It was enough that women should be "sensible and virtuous." Only a century ago Immanuel Kant uttered the following: "All abstract speculations, all knowledge which is dry, however useful it may be, must be abandoned to the laborious and solid mind of man.' 1°Women in Science," Mozans, 586 © one denies that women have always been an important factor in the work of the world, since the first home was organized — whether cave or hut. Authorities all admit that they have carried their share of the burdens of life and that it is their right to work to supply their needs, but they have invaded the stage in a new role— competitors with men. There's the rub. If history is to be relied on, primitive women were the first basket makers, weavers, and gardeners. They made the first clay vessels as receptacles for the dishes they must concoct from the various growing things which necessity forced them to experiment with, they must satisfy the hunger of their children. In like manner women became the first physicians. They must heal the sick with the herbs they gathered in the primeval forests. So they became the first scientists. They learned to dress the skins of wild beasts and make them into clothing, for, men, forsooth, weary of the chase must be made comfortable. As one writer says, speaking especially of the Australian aborigines, "Men hunt, spear fish,- and sit about." The wives, no doubt, used all their powers of invention to improve the situation in which they found themselves. The care of the babies they loved would impel them to improve their environment." BECAUSE of that overwhelming idea of woman's inferiority history has not had much to say of her part in industry. Her place was in the home, and important as the home is in the welfare of the race, until recent years it appears the keeper of the home was not considered a worker, notwithstanding the home early became the work shop where the "fine twined linen and goats' hair' were: made into RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE garments mostly by women and children. Coming down to Colonial days the spinning, weaving, and making of clothes for the family was done in the home. Butter, cheese, candles, soap, and many other commodities were the products of the home, in addition women often worked in the fields and sometimes even helped to build their cabins. Later a system of trading came into vogue. Families began to make things for exchange with other families; thus adding to the comfort of living. Occasionally they sold their products for money, although money was not considered an essential in those days. As business increased, the home became a veritable manufacturing establishment where merchandise to supply the public needs was produced. A LITTLE more than a century ago the great, noisy, whirling, machine age was being ushered in and women and children in large numbers found employment in the factories, where, although the hours were long, it was a novelty and a welcomed change. This work, however, presented a new problem. Although woman's work in the home had been arduous, they could have a watchful care over the children and prepare their husband's meals between times. So here was a serious situation. Some years ago in a gathering of the National Council of Women of the United States, convened in Washington, D. C., Mrs. Harriet R. Robinson of Nalden, Massachusetts, told this story: "T went into a Lowell factory when I was eleven years old and worked fourteen hours a day. I had a dear mother who gave me enough to eat and took care that I had sleep enough and so it did not harm me. I went to the factory in the morning at five o'clock, worked two hours and then ran out WOMEN IN INDUSTRY for my breakfast, a half hour perhaps. Then I went back for six hours and so the thing went on, until seven o'clock at night. I stayed there for eleven years, until I was married." This was the lot of many women and children, both in the old world and in America in 1830. But the work put more money into their pockets than they had heretofore. Received for the same hours of labor, and no doubt the experience put a degree of independence in their hearts, thus awakening ambition, and women began to look about. ORRIBLE as it is to contemplate, war plays a conspicuous part in the economic interests of women. It creates an emergency in which they are: pushed to the fore. This is true of all wars, but we will speak only of the later ones. The Civil war called many women into unusual occupations, but when the war was over they fell back into their old positions, but did not forget their achievements. Not so in the World war. Women proved positively that they could organize and execute plans in fields which before only men had attempted. In that crisis there were few industries that women did not enter, and that, too, at the solicitation of men who changed front very considerably when the war was over. However, women's feet became so firmly planted in industrial soil that it will be difficult to uproot them. Women, having entered into competition with men, naturally demand equal pay for equal work. Surveys, however, reveal that fifty-three per cent of the wages men receive is the estimated ratio for women in the same kind of employment. Everyone will admit that this is not just, but there are many reasons given. One is that women will accept a low wage reasoning doubt- 587 less that a little is better than nothing, that where physical strength is required, it takes five women to do the work of tour men; in some cases, three women to two men. That women employees are more expensive than men, they must have more comforts, better sanitary conditions and shorter hours. There is still another phase which perhaps is lost sight of, especially by young women. To them it is often only a temporary job. They are looking forward to marriage, when they will be relieved of daily toil so that really they do not prepare themselves for a life's job as do young men. It is discovered also that while a college education is always an asset, graduates do not like to begin at the first round of the ladder and really get into the technical training that is necessary to fit them for the more advanced positions. So that often the higher salaries go to the girl who, not having the advantage of higher education, has become familiar with every detail of the business or professfon.? Again men say that women sttcceed better in their own groups, or where they manage their own business—to which most of us_ will agree. Because of these deficiencies one authority says, 'Positions of skill, training and responsibility are usually given to men, whereas positions requiring speed and a certain amount of dexterity, but not exceptional skill, are usually held by women. Consequently, women suffer not only from inadequate compensation, but also from fatigue and nervous strain. The conspicuous lack of industrial training among women accounts for this discrepancy."* 2°Women Professional Elizabeth K. Abbott. 3"Women in Industry in an Introduction to the Study of Labor Problems," Watkins, Workers," 588 Time, it is thought, will remedy this condition. Many industrial concerns, as well as various unions, are giving training. Colleges also are giving attention to vocational guidance with a view of fitting their students for a business or professional career. HE Women's Bureau, headed by Grace Abbott, credited to have been brought about by the women of the trades' union and supported by other interested bodies, is doing much for women's industrial interests. If women, generally, though they may not have to earn their bread, would interest themselves in working for legislation that would deal fairly with their sex, the wheels of progress would move more rapidly. It is interesting to note the following helpful suggestion: "Secure technical training, don't fall into work." "Secure as much theoretical training and industrial experience as possible." "Get a thorough Rnowledge of economics, sociology and statistics, and also familiarity with the various office devices, used in statistical work— slide rule, adding machines, typewriters, ruling pen, etc." Another group of professional women working for the interests of women gives the following instructions: "Get. A knowledge of labor from the inside; cultivate tact and accuracy and utilize every opportunity of learning about industrial problems." Alternate training with actual employment or industrial experience in order that education and experience may supplement each other. Take very thorough university and school of civics training, stressing economics, sociology, and applied psychology. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The last quarter of a century has done much to further the cause of women, and women have done much to improve industrial conditions. They have had a care for the welfare of workers, some of them being themselves mothers, know how to sympathize with the woman who must work to support herself and children. Mothers have been known, because of stress of circumstances, to work nights and take care of their children in the day time, having perhaps only four hours sleep out of the twenty-four. Surely this should be the concern of men as well as women. I= sweat shop system, bad sanitary conditions, dangerous occupations, may all be alleviated when women, as a whole, unite to eliminate them. The census figures for 1920 show that of the approximately forty-two million persons, ten years of age and over engaged in gainful occupation, about 8,500,- 000 or twenty per cent were females. There were also forty-six professional vocations in which women were employed. It is safe to say there are many more now—for women stop at nothing. We find them on the sea and in the air and in the wilds of Africa. Of women who have distinguished themselves in recent years we are proud to name Miss Charlotte Angas Scott, who for many years was professor of mathematics at the college of Bryn Mawr, who it is said followed closely in the footsteps of her famous predecessor, Hypatia. It would not be fair to single out any one woman from the list who has distinguished herself in the study of astronomy. There are many professors and assistant professors in colleges and universities both in the old world and the new. ' WOMEN IN INDUSTRY The same may be said of women in physics. Become experts in the natural sciences and stand side by side with men professors in teaching this study. Women in. Medicine and surgery are no longer under the ban, but in America and England especially they are looked upon as an evidence of an advanced civilization. Two brilliant American women, Mrs. Lewis and Mrs. Gibson, twins, by the way, have made rare contributions to scriptural literature by their research work in the convent library at Mt. Sinai after many eminent scholars had thought the convent exhausted of its precious treasures. "But more remarkable than the mere discovery of so many invaluable manuscripts which was, of course, an extraordinary achievement, is the fact that these manuscripts, whether in Syriac, Arabic, or Hebrew, have been' translated and notated and edited by these same scholarly women. Already more than a score of volumes have come from their prolific pens, all evincing the keenest critical acumen and the highest order of Biblical and archaeological scholarship "Miss Dorothea Klumpe, of San Francisco, who after studying in Europe, applied. For admission as a student to the Paris observatory, was the first woman to offer herself as a colleague, and as there was no statute against it she was received and given a telescope for her own use and immediately set herself to complete the work began by Madam Kovalesky, who in 1888 was awarded the Rix, Bordin, the greatest scientific honor which any woman had ever gained. One of the greatest honors, indeed, to which any one can aspire. This prize was won in a world wide competition, men as #"Women in Science,' Mozans. Scores of women have. 589 well as women, to the profound astonishment of the committee of the 'French Academy." Commenting on the success of women, in business and professions, there is Mabel Walker Willibrant, an eminent lawyer and one time Assistant Attorney General of the Supreme Court of the United States. Miss Margaret Stewart organized a credit bureau in Ogden which is listed as a million dollar business. Judge Florence Allen, once of Utah, now of Ohio, is one of the Chief Justices of that State. Of Madam Curie's splendid achievement in science all the world knows, of whom it has been written: "Never in the history of science have the results of a woman's scientific researches been so stupendous or so revolutionary, and never has any one achievement in science reflected more glory of womankind than that which is so largely due to the genius and the perseverance of Madam Curie.'* SD women are coming into what they consider their just rights. They not only have the right to earn money for their own maintenance, but apparently they may frequently support their husbands and children. To be a wage earner and a voter has brought about a marvelous change in the status of women. Opportunity has, no doubt, quickened their intelligence and their ambitions. Just what the results will be is already fore-shadowed. Men are being crowded out of their God given' right to work and earn a livelihood for their families, and yet it is not just to say that many women are not compelled to work. It has always been true, that multitudes of women have had to support their children but the criticism is that the industries are crowded with women and girls who work 5"Women in Science," Mozans.  for pin money to the detriment of the home and other would be workers. So instead of being the mothers to whom all the family do hom-' age, women are fast becoming the bread winners and perhaps crushing out the very thing she most admires in men. - However, all are agreed that the transition from slave to helpmeets was necessary and perhaps the pendulum will swing back by and by and the world be made better by the change. In the meantime, women are having the opportunities of proving that they are capable of doing most anything they set their minds to, which, of course is a source of satisfaction to themselves and has been somewhat of an astonishment to men, and they succeed, too, immeasurably. Instead of being the plodders in the business world they are fast becoming foremen, managers of banks, architects, designers, engineers, journalists, lawyers, physicians, executive secretaries, and often the real head of some great institution. But still they have not yet reached the shining heights to which their ambitions lead them. No limitations for women, is what the more ambitious demand.