Guide Lessons for January, 1931 LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in January) Book or MorMoN—LeEsson IV—NEeEPpPuHI, SON oF HELAMAN This lesson covers the matter in the "Book of Helaman," from chapter 1 to chapter 12, inclusive. The time is the years between B. C. 52 and B. C. 6—forty-six years in all. In terms of the reign of the judges it would be the years lying between 40 and 86. It is a period filled with the most dramatic events, sharp contrasts, and the activities of one towering figure—Nephi, the son of Helaman.. There is very little doctrine in the account, and that is more by way of comment on the part of Mormon, who abridges the larger history. The Story The story opens with a contest between three of Pahoran's sons for _ the chief judgeship — Pahoran, Paanchi, and Pacumeni. Pahoran is elected. Presently, however, he is murdered by a man named Kishkumen, one of a gang of outlaws. He is succeeded by his brother, Pacumeni. Then there is trouble with the Lamanites. It happens that a certain Coriantumr has' defected from the Nephites to the Lamanites. Down there in the south he awakens the sleeping enmities of those people for their northern neighbors. At the head of a very large force of Lamanites he conducts a quick march into the center of Nephite territory, taking the chief town, Zarahemla. This surprises Moronihah, who has strongly fortified the border cities, under the impression that no-'enemy will attack the capital. Pacumeni, the chief judge, in an effort to escape from Coriantumr's force, is killed. In the end. However, the Nephites win; they characteristically allow their - enemies to make a peaceful retreat. Coriantumr dies in one of the battles. Helaman the Second becomes chief judge. And now there arises among the Nephites one of the factors that bring about their destruction—the Gadianton robbers. These thrive on the loose morals that grow up in this fickle nation. Also a large emigration to the north takes place at this time. At the death of Helaman the Second, his son Nephi becomes chief judge. He is the outstanding character in the period. But he does not serve in this capacity for long, on account of the degeneration of the people; he "yields'' his seat to Cezoram, a man of evil tendencies. Cezoram has been chosen by a majority of the same mind as himself. But his reign is short, for he is murdered by an unknown hand. His son stcceeds him, but he has an even shorter reign, he too being murdered. The chief judgeship then gets into the hands of a man named Seezoram. But Seezoram, too, is killed by his own brother. Gadianton's spirit rules in the affairs of the Nephite nation, and government is run for. The benefit of the rich and influential. GUIDE LESSONS FOR JANUARY Meanwhile, Nephi, with his brother Lehi, throws himself with energy and earnestness into religious work. He visits the Nephite population first and then the Nephite cities still in the hands of the Lamanites. He meets with considerable success. By the Lamanites in their own territory, he is imprisoned; but after a miracle of the most unusual kind, he converts almost the entire nation. From now on to the end of our present lesson we have a reversal in position of the Nephites and the Lamanites. The latter are the more righteous; the former, on the whole, go from bad to worse. Nephi is granted power by the Lord such as we read of in no other person—the power to command the elements, to bring on famine, and other prerogatives. But always he uses this power with great discretion. The center of his interest all the time is © human welfare, not self-aggrandizeement. NOTES 1. Secret Combinations: As stated in the text of the lesson, one of the things that led to the ultimate overthrow of the Nephite nation was the Gadianton robbers, a band of "lawless resolutes." Says Mormon, speaking when that overthrow was all but accomplished, "And behold, in the end of this book ye shall see that this Gadianton did prove the overthrow, yea, almost the entire destruction of the people of Nephi."" He means the end of his record, the Book of Mormon. The heart, the moving motive, of this secret organization was selfishness as against service. Of course, selfishness by the members - of this order could best be promoted by getting power into their hands. Hence the chief political places were the object of their desires. And political offices once in their hands, they turned all the ma- 625 chinery of government to their own uses. Naturally, as power gravitated to the secret order, with its secret signs and covenants, its membership increased. For it appears to be a common human trait for us to want to be in favor with those who have power. And so it gradually came about that the majority of the Nephite people belonged, one way or another, to this secret combination. And as naturally, under this regime, robbery, murder,' sex sins, oppression, were the order of the times. Never before in Nephite history was there such moral and political chaos. There was to be another such period, and on an even larger scale; but that was when the end of the nation was in sight. And Mormon attributes the situation to this secret organization. No wonder the Nephite Record declares secret combinations to be of the devil. 2. The Eternal Circle: No people in the history of the world, of whom we have any record, were more "swift to do evil" as the Nephites, or more unstable in their adherence to the principles of individual and national growth. All thoughtful readers of the Book of Mormon have observed this fact. The late George Reynolds, perhaps the greatest student of the Nephite Record we have had thus far, says this of the period we are now considering: "Peace brought stability, stability brought wealth, wealth engendered pride, pride gave birth to. Numerous sins, to be followed by contentions, dissensions, and then wars. These evils begat sorrow, sorrow softened their heart to repentance, repentance was followed by the blessing of God, which again brought peace, prosperity, and, by-and-by, riches. And at this era of Nephite national life, this is the one eternal round which their inspired historians are compelled to chronicle. 626 "Within four short years of the happy time of universal peace we have just referred to, the riches of the world had induced stubbornness and rebellion towards God, combined with the insane desire to rob, plunder, and murder their fellowmen. If there ever were a people swift to do evil, they were the Nephites of that generation." 3. Emigrations: during the spell of peace that came after the war with the Lamanites, there was an emigration of both the Nephites and the Lamanites. They went into the "land northward," we are told. It is the second emigration of which the Book of Mormon speaks, the one in which the shipbuilder Hagoth took a prominent part, being the first one. One of the reasons for this movement, no doubt, was the occupancy of some of the Nephite cities by the Lamanites. "Now the land south," says Mormon, "'was called Lehi, and the land north was called Mulek, which was after the son of Zedekiah; for the Lord did bring Mulek into the land north, and Lehi into the land south." This was one of the rare periods in ancient America when, in the language of the historian, every man and woman could "go into whatsoever part of the land they would, whether among the Nephites or the Lamanites," with perfect security. Thus the people had "free intercourse with one another," buying and selling "'to get gain;" they farmed and built and mined in peace. And thus they grew rich— and started off again on the same old segment of the "eternal round" of which Elder Reynolds speaks. 4. Mormon's Comment: Care must be exercised, in this lesson particularly, to distinguish between what Mormon says in his capacity In this period, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of abridger of the records before him and what he says in his capacity of prophet or philosopher. Once in a while he interjects a comment on what he is setting down as a historian. Such are the passages found in the third chapter of Helaman, verses 13 to 16, where he tells of the numerous records of the people who went into the "land northward," and the whole of the twelfth chapter of the same book, where he speaks of human frailty and unsteadiness in serving God. In chapter six also there is one of these interruptions of the narrative. See if you can pick it out. Not that these are unimportant. They are important, as a matter of fact, from two points of view. First, they are valuable in themselves. They state clearly the leadings and tendencies among nations, and in the language of a man who is looking at them in the light of their results. In a sense they are fingerposts along the highway of life and are intended as such to those who may not know the way. And, secondly, they furnish us with a bit of evidence of the divine origin of the Book of Mormon; 'for they are consistent with the theory that the Nephite Record is an abridgment by the prophet Mormon, and not an original composition by Joseph Smith. 5. The Prophet Nephi: This man is one of the most extraordinary characters in human history. He is unusual, first, in the almost unlimited power he is given by the Lord. "Behold, thou art Nephi," he is told, "and I am God. I declare unto thee in the presence of mine angels that ye shall have power over this people." This power enabled him to smite the earth with famine, pestilence, and destruction, according to. The wickedness of the people; to seal and unloose in heav- GUIDE LESSONS FOR JANUARY en and on the earth; to rend the temple in twain; to cast down mountains; to smite the people. It was a power such as, if we are correctly informed, has never been granted any other man. And Nephi was unusual, secondly, in the use he made of this exceptional power. Always men love power. This seems to be a fundamental trait in human nature. But not always do they use this power to the best advantage—that is, for human welfare, the welfare of others. Nephi, however, employs it only when he can save men, never merely for his own advancement. This is a remarkable fact. Also he does not make a display of his power. When the wickedness of the people reaches a point where they are threatened with destruction at the hands of one another in internal strife, he prays for the Lord to send a famine. He knows that will end the war and bring the people to repentance—as indeed it does. Questions and Problems 1. How do you account for the superior steadfastness of the La- 627 manites, once they are converted? 2. Explain why the use of his extraordinary power by Nephi is so noteworthy. Call to mind in history generally the ways in which large power has been used by men. When is power a good thing? When a bad thing? How is power ac-. Quired nowadays? How might it be used for greater good? 3. Whhy are "secret combinations" of the devil, as the Book of Mormon declares? Wy were the Lamaanites able to destroy the Gadianton robbers among them, and the Nephites not able to destroy them in their part of the nation? 4. Explain the influence that wealth has on the trend of things among the Nephites. Have we any parallel situations in our American communities today? Explain. What are we to do about it? References 1. Dictionary to the Book of Mormon—Reynolds—under the names of the persons mentioned here. 2. Message and Characters of the Book of Mormon—Evans—chapters 25 and 26. LESSON II Work and Business (Second Week in January) INTELLECTUAL OPPORTUNITIES OFFERED BY THE RELIEF SOCIETY "The aim of education is to give the individual all the perfection of which he is susceptible." Immanuel Kant. The Relief Society offers its members three courses of study— one in Theology, one in Literature, and one in Social Service—which are prepard by experts in their line and which may well be compared with extension courses 'offered by colleges and universities. Every ward has a room where these courses are conducted by competent class leaders. Mind quickens mind. Congenial women meet weekly to discuss these lessons. The class leaders and visiting teachers are studying, instructing, and growing intellectually through the service they are giving to the organization. Teachers' topics are outlined for the use of the visiting teachers, 628 and those who study them are growing in ability to outline and present subjects. Whatever makes people think is valuable intellectual training. Thousands are called upon to pray, to sing, to speak each year and the problems that come up for solution in the social service work require careful thought and studious attention. Nicholas Murray Butler gives the following evidences of an education:: _ First, Correctness and precision in the use of the mother tongue. Second, Refined and gentle manRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ners which are the expression of fixed habits of thought and action. Third, The power and habit of reflection. Fourth, The power of growth. Lifth, Efficiency—the power to do. The Relief Society aids its members to attain these desired evidences of an education. By reading good literature more correct and precise English is acquired. By associating together the manners of the members become more refined and gentle. Power of growth is gained through the activities engaged in by the society. Efficiency comes through constantly doing the things required. "LESSON 3 Literature (3rd Week in December) THe SuHort STorRy—GrREAT BRITAIN Part [| Suggested Stories: — or Grendel's Raid—Esyllt and Sabrina—The Humbling of Jovinian—The Story of An Heir ECAUSE the majority of us come from an English-speaking race, the English short story will have a greater meaning and interest for us than that of any nation we have previously studied. InGreat Britain, the short story can be traced back to a time long before the formation: of our language. It was not until the 15th century that English, as we recognize it today, came into being. And it took well into the 17th century to make the language easy for us to read at first sight. However, Beowulf, the most ancient epic of the Germanic people (an episode of Beowulf appears in the text under the title "Grendel's Raid"), was possibly written in the seventh century, some four centuries before the Norman conquest of England. After Beowulf, we have the writings of Bede and Alfred, but few story tellers of note until Chaucer and Langland's time in the 14th century. There was a 12th century priest, Geoffrey of Monmouth, whose works purported to be a-history of British kings and who laid the foundations for the Arthurian legends, next to be taken up by Malory. There was also the Gesta Romanorum, collected in the 13th century. It was made up of tales about the deeds of imaginary or real Roman emperors and was centered about Christianity. After Sir Thomas Malory in the 15th century came the ideals of the GUIDE LESSONS Italian Renaissance. One of the most lasting English results was the collection of Palace of Pleasure Tales by Painter. It was from this material that Shakespeare and other. Writers took many of their plot conceptions.. However, not until the time of Joseph Addison from 1672 to 1719 was English prose refined to its present state and the foundations laid for the writing of novels —out of which finally came the short story of today. It is with these periods that the first lesson on the short stories of Great Britain is concerned. Naturally, all of the stories cannot be read in class. For this reason the class leaders will have to choose the ones she thinks will best appeal to her group. As many members as possible should read the stories outside class. Beowulf should not be among the _stories omitted. Of its author nothing is known except that he was a man of genius who liked to throw a veil of Christian morality over the pagan life of the long gone past. There is reason to believe that Beowulf, 'who is the hero of the story, was a real person... In the story the poet tells us that the collar given Beowulf passed into the hands of Beowulf's lord, Hygelac. Hygelac is a historical person and was slain about 512 A. D., while making a raid into a province of the Netherlands. The poem, Beowulf, consists of four separate stories, all dignified and moral in tone, but cold and sad as if they were written in a world where the sun never shone. It lacks the cheery note of later English literature. The stories are, (1) the hero's fight with Grendel, (2) the fight with Grendel's mother, (3) the triumphal return of the hero, and (4) the death of Beowulf. Our story is concerned with the first. FOR JANUARY 629 Hrothgar, the Danish king, had built a famous and beautiful meadhall called Heorot from the hart's horns adorning the gabled roof. There the old king lived in peace with his warriors until he began to receive nightly visits from a hideous and powerful monster named Grendel. This Grendel came up from a cave beneath the marshes. He was a terrible thing and supposed to be a descendant of Cain. (Medieval lore had it that Cain was the father of many horrtble and misshapen monsters, and here we see the pagan veil). For twelve years Hrothgar endured Grendel. Then a thane of Hygelac, king of the Geats or Goths, came to his rescue. Beowulf, who had the "strength of thirty men" in his wrists, was followed by fourteen of his bravest warriors. They spent the evening drinking and feasting in the hall. Late hours came, and they were left alone to sleep. It was then that Grendel approached, and laughing horribly, tore one of the men limb from limb and ate him. But this was Grendel's last raid, for after. His fight with Beowulf the monster crawled away to die. In the later stories, Beowulf had to descend to the cave to vanquish Grendel's mother, who had been avenging her son's death. Later, the hero became king of the Geats, and after fifty years he was mortally wounded in a fight with a dragon. There have been mythological expositions of Beowulf—too many to give in any great detail here. One of them is that Beowulf was a personification of storm, wind or lightning, a patron of bee keepers (which meant that he represented civilization), while Grendel typified the terrors of pestilent marshes, malaria, or the long winter nights. An- 630 other is that Beowulf typified the introduction of agriculture and civilization; Grendel the North Sea, so that the monster's flight was as the checkings of the outrages of the sea in the spring season. * OK OK KO It is a long jump from Beowulf to Addison, but lesson space will be its own. Explanation. Joseph Addison, who wrote the Story of An Heir or Eudoxus and Leontine as it is sometimes called, was born in Wiltshire in 1672 of reputable and cultured parents. At fifteen he entered Queen's College, Oxford, where he was known for his talent in writing Latin verses. From one of his poems he earned a pension of three hundred pounds a year and on which he set forth to see the world. While he was abroad, his patron lost his political position. That meant the loss of Addison's income, so the young man came home. But fortune was still gracious. Addison soon wrote a poem on the battle of Blenheim, '"The Conqueror," which became extremely popular. It was not that he was a great poet, but more because good poetry was extremely rare and the Duke of. Marlborough, who had won the battle, was the exalted idol of England. Addison rose to be secretary of state and married a countess. Luckily, for the sake of English literature, his party lost power and he turned to writing. He and Sir Richard Steele collaborated on a small daily, "The Tatler," and later on "The Spectator." Both of these printed short essays containing morals. The writings were really short stories without plots and were exquisite examples of English prose. In his genius, Addison was a combination of wit and elegance that made his writing like the delightful RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE conversation of a cultured gentleman. He had a refined wit and the power of delicate satire. Throughout all his works he took the attitude of a conscious and professed moralist. He lived at a time when manners were apt to be coarse and selfish and morals had a corresponding tone. But he set up no impossible standards. Rather he used the effective weapon of gentle satire and made England laugh at itself. The Story of An Heir is not altogether typical of his gayety, but it has polished style and his moral ideas. Notes on Beowulf (Ba'o-woolf). Fen-refuge: lair beneath the lake mead-bench: drinking bench veterans of Scylding: the Danes (other names are explained in lesson) Questions on Stories 1. Story of An Heir. What circumstances prompt Ad-. Dison to relate this story? Name all the motives impelling the exchange of Florio and Leonilla. Are they sufficient? Is the end too 'clearly in view from the birth of the two children? Are the steps to that end obvious? Analyze the story from this outline: Initial incident Progress of action Dramatic climax Progress towards climax of action Climax of action The Denouement (da-noo-man —closing episode in story). What things in the story indicate the interest of Addison in the moral, rather than in the narrative itself? Could interest in the story be heightened if the author had emphasized the dramatic moments? How would an author today develop this story? Could this story be expanded into a novel? GUIDE LESSONS FOR JANUARY 1. Grendel's Raid. What descriptions or episodes are pagan in their nature? What elements of Christianity do you find? Who was Beowulf and why did he come to Hrothgar's hall? What elements in the story are supernatural? 2. Esyllt and Sabrina. Who were the Huns? Why did Hymyr fail in his battle with King Locrinus?' Why did Locrinus put Esyllt away? Is he a weak character? Has this story a single predominating character? In what ways does it differ from 631 the modern conception of a short story? Does the length of time destroy the unity of the story? What are the outstanding traits of each character? Is there a struggle or conflict? Does the story seem plausible? 3. Humbling of Jovinian. 'What are the supernatural features of this story? Do you know of any other stories where this theme has been used? What faults of Jovinian caused: his downfall? State the theme of this story in a few words. LESSON 4 Social Service Fourth Week in January Personality 'Study: Making Ideas Stick. Based on Overstreet's Influencing Human Behavior, pp. 110-139, Those who enjoyed the last lesson will be glad to know that we are now to make a new and interesting approach to the same subject. How much does the succesful use of one's mother tongue in speech and writing depend upon our ability to cross the interest dead-line! Or to put the problem another way, how can we make the ideas we express "stick" in the minds of those whom we address? If we can do these things, says Overstreet, "'we have the world with us. If we cannot, we may as well retire." Consistent with the fundamental point of view of all of these interesting discusions on influencing human behavior we are again reminded of the personality problem involved. The great majority of us fail to cross the interest dead-line and to make our ideas stick because we have acquired habits that make us extremely commonplace in all our communication. We thoughtlessly adopt time-worn modes of expression that have long since lost their vitality. Our remarks about the weather, about politics, religion, poetry, music, art, scenery, science, etc., etc., are almost exclusively made up of stock-expressions borrowed from who knows. Where. Even our prayers too often consist almost entirely of these borrowed and stereotyped expressions which we utter in a perfectly thoughtless and automatic way. We smile when we hear of oriental people using prayer-wheels, yet fail to recognize that some of our own _ prayers contain elements almost as mechanical and monotonous. Just notice the tendency in yourself to 632 use in very glib and galloping fashion phrases that have become mere words—euphonious and high-sounding to be sure, but still mere empty words. We need not here illustrate specifically. Surely in the future we can put more of our own personalities into our prayers at least. They may be more halting, but they will be more appropriate and will express more truly our sincere desires and deepest yearnings. That trait about us which makes us lazy and conventional to the extreme in our prayers to our Heavenly Father also is responsible for much the same thing in our communication with each other. These devitalized and over-worked expressions are called cliches (kle shaz) and the type of people who use them over-much are said to have cliche minds. These people are also referred to as bromides. (See any good dictionary. ) We all recognize that there are people with quite other habits. They have refreshingly new and original ways of expressing themselves not only in speech but also in other forms of behavior. They seem to do their own thinking with relatively little regard for tradition or custom. You never can be sure what they will say or do. Such people are called sulphites. (Look up this term also in the dictionary.) When a bromide is speaking or praying a stenographer who has heard him before can often keep several sentences ahead of what he is saying at a given moment. It is all just so much "animated boiler plate." But not so with the sulphite. What he says will at least be different. It may be impossible or even shocking but it will not bore you. A bromide at his best, if his comniunication is not ignored, may help to pass on useful and well tried things from our great social inRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE heritance, The sulphite at his best (sometimes he is a mere crank) will present old truths in new and striking ways, he will probably help add to the good things that come down to us from the past and there need be no "if"' expressed about his communication being ignored. He is bound to cross the interest dead line and the ideas he expresses are almost sure to stick. By way of summarizing this discussion of bromides and _ sulphites we may quote briefly from Gelett Burgess. He says, "The Bromide does his thinking by syndicate. He follows the main-traveled roads, he goes with the crowd. In a word, they all think and talk alike—one may predicate their opinion upon any given subject. Their habits of thought are all ready made, proper, sober, befitting the average man. '""A Sulphite is a person who does his own thinking, he is a person who has surprises up his sleeve. He is explosive. One can never foresee what he will do, except that it will be a direct and spontaneous manifestation of his own personality." (Quoted by J. R. Slater in Freshman Rhetoric—Selections, pp. 62- 65.) The two short chapters of our present lesson should be read with these personality considerations always in mind. Am I too much of a bromide? What are some of the many cliches which I might well begin to eliminate from my conversations and my letter writing particularly? Am I more of a sulphite than I should be? Do I tend to shock people for the mere sake of shocking them or does good actually result from the stimulus of my unconventional expressions? Am | able to listen creatively to a dry _speech which would otherwise bore me? When one listens thus creatively one is kept alert by the GUIDE LESSONS FOR JANUARY | effort to formulate more effective ways of putting over a vital message 'on the same subject. In my effort to get people to think am I supplying the indispensable incentives for thinking—the vivid presentation of interesting quandaries or dilemmas which demand solutions? (See Poulson—Human Nature, pp. 120-128.) Se? Problems for Discussion 1. Ask some newspaper man or printer what is meant by "boiler plate" or "plate matter." Can you recognize material printed from this stuff in your local paper? Why is it held in such contempt? 2. Make a list of twenty or thirty cliches heard by you within a week in public addresses or over the radio, such as "bigger and better," "I feel like responding to the call," "taken entirely by surprise," '""my mind is a perfect blank," etc. Suggest more original and otherwise better ways of expressing some of the same ideas. 3. Explain what type-of person is referred to as a bromide; a sulphite. Which type in your opinion, acting as a teacher would stimulate the most worthwhile class discussion? Give reasons. Which type would make the best missionary? Why? 4. (a) In the best: sense: of the word what is meant' by originality? (b) Comment' on the following Statement: "Originality is thé capacity to rearrange old ideas into 633 new relations." "The truly independent thinker does not make less use of other men's ideas than the servile thinker, but more. <A good definition of intellectual independence is reasoned dependence." 5, Consider this statement from Colvin and Bagley: "Since thinking comes only when a problem is ' presented or a situation faced, only when a crisis in our behavior arises, it follows that, to stimulate thought, we should confront (people) with actual problems." How is this related to what is presented in our text on pages 115 to 122? 6,. Attempt to classify each of the following as either a Bromide or a Sulphite and offer your reasons in each case: Hamlet, Polonius, Bernard Shaw, Marie Corelli and Bildad (a character in the Book of Job). 7, What common defect of scientific and philosophic discussions tend to make them lack vital interest? To what extent are many religious discussions characterized by similar defects? How would you remedy them? Be as specific as you can. 8. Discuss the following' statements from Overstreet in relation to this lesson: (a) "The mind is what it does. Or better -still, the mind, becomes what it does." (b) "He who would influence human behavior can hardly do better than to proceed quite seriously and persistently to overhaul his verbal equipment." Gifts; By Claire Stewart Boyer In omniscient wisdom God sits on His throne Extending His gifts from the sky, And we wondering mortals in constant parade Looking upward, pass silently by. And some hearts unseeing go hopelessly on, Bound fast to the earth and its ways; And some see the joys and the sorrows of life Like banners in vibrant arrays. One plucks at a treasure with great greedy hands And then toying it, throws it aside, Another holds sacred a heaven-sent grief That God to his brother denied.. So each in his turn with the light of his faith Determines his share of God's grace And up past His treasures of sorrow and joy Is the all knowing smile of His face.