The Dawn of Hope for Saint and Sinner in the Life to Come By J. H. Paul It. Tue Future STATE OF UNBELIEVERS ORMER established concluF sions, quite generally held, as to the supposed fate of unbelievers in the world to come, a few of which were noted in the two previous chapters, have been largely disregarded by the advanced thought of our own time, probably not being held by any considerable number of people today. Yet it is surprising to discover how much of this kind of material our own century presents, most of it, however, dating back from thirty to fifty years. Recent Representations of Future Woe HE late Dr. Gardiner Spring, eminent American divine, draws pictures of the wrath of "'the omnipotent and angry God, who has access to all the avenues of distress in the corporeal frame''—pictures almost as terrible as anything that medieval times can offer. The celebrated John Henry Newman, whose writings have exerted a profound influence on modern thought generally, says of a lost soul that it "is in hell—in the beginning of those torments in which his body will 'soon have part, and which will never die." Mr. Spurgeon, a famous recent writer and preacher, in graphic and fearful sermons, speaks of the torture of the soul to be followed by the un-ending agony of the body: "In fire exactly like that which we have on earth thy body will lie, asbestos-like, forever unconsumed, all thy veins roads for the feet of Pain to travel on, every nerve a string on which the devil shall forever play his diabolical tune of 'Hell's unutterable Lament'." Supposed Fate of Heathens and Infants A° to the supposed fate of the heathen and of infants, Calvin makes the following admission: "That the fall of Adam should involve so many nations with their infant children in eternal death * * * is, I confess, an awful decree," which he yet justifies on the doctrine of divine predestination,— holding that "eternal life is foreordained for some, and_ eternal damnation for others." (Institutes, Book III, 24:12). The Lutheran doctrine teaches that "after the fall of Adam, all men are naturally born in sin; 'that is, born with evil desires; * * * entailing the 'wrath of God and eternal death on all who are not regenerated by baptism," etc. (Augsburg Confession). "This depravity of our nature," writes Mosheim, "although it is involuntary in us and derived from our first parents, is nevertheless imputed to us as sin in the chancellery of heaven. Wherefore, if no other sin were added, we should be exposed to divine punishment, on account of this depravity itself." "To send the gospel to the heathen," said the American Board ot Foreign Commissioners for Foreign Missions some fifty years ago, "is a work of great exigency. Within the last thirty years a whole generation of five hundred millions 604 have gone down to eternal death. * * * The heathen are involved in the ruins of the apostasy, and are expressly doomed to perdition. Six hundred million deathless souls on the brink of hell!" "Tn the upshot," says Henry, "it comes to this: that not only fifty thousand go daily, as one missionary from China writes, down to an endless hell, but the great bulk of mankind for the four thousand years before Christ came and for the two thousand years since he came have gone there * * * doomed to abide there forever, for not believing in a Savior they never heard of! "These monstrous notions I have not a moment's hesitation in rejecting; they contradict the eternal principles of righteousness. No tradition, no amount of historical evidence, no authority of any sort, can rightfully establish the divine origin of a religion which propounds to our belief things so absolutely contradictory to reason and conscience. I would sooner be an atheist than accept them. Better a charice-medley universe than one controlled by a Supreme Being capable of creating millions of human creatures with a predetermination to condemn them to everlasting misery." Alarmed at the consequences of the doctrine of endless suffering, several modern sects (the Christadelphians, and others) have arisen which declare that the people who heard not the gospel in this life cannot be judged by it in the hereafter, and shall, therefore, never be resurrected. But this view is a very doubtful improvement on the former belief, since it presents, instead of an endless life in misery, the alternative of endless annihilation in death. Such a choice it would be difficult to make, either condition being about as intolerable as the other, and neither offering any hope to the yearning spirit of every child of the Most High. A Vanishing Theology OING still further back we come upon pictures, today disRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE regarded, of fiendish cruelties inflicted by the wrath of God, drawn by the fancy of Pollok in his "Course of Time," discredited now, the lake of burning fire into which sinful souls are to be plunged, there to burn forever without being consumed; ignored is Bishop Jeremy Taylor's celebrated discourse on "The Pains of Hell;"' discounted are Dr. Isaac Barrow's portrayals of sufferings that transcend the powers of the imagination to conceive. In like manner the frightful energy with which Jonathan Edwards exhibits the supposed torments of the damned; the intense expression that another New England divine, Dr. Samuel Hopkins, has given to the strange idea that the Most High delights in beholding the sight oi the endless agonies of lost souls, and the similar astounding notion that the spectacle will also be "most entertaining" to the saints, affording them "the highest and most ineffable pleasure'"'—these and numerous similar beliefs devoutly held a century or more ago, most men now probably regard as only the fanatical, extreme, and mistaken views of intensely wrought-up religious zealots of past ages—views not held today, perhaps, by any considerable number of Bible students. Views of Early New England Divines ORTRAYALS of the future suffering of unbelievers probably reached their climax among the early Puritans. | Biographers say that when the celebrated divine Jonathan Edwards would describe the supposed tortures of lost souls, adding that these torments would continue, "not for one minute, nor for one day, nor for one age, nor THE DAWN OF HOPE for two ages, nor for a hundred ages, nor for ten thousands of millions of ages one after another, but forever and ever, without any end at all," whole congregations, believing, as they did, the truth of every word, would rise to their feet, smiting their breasts, shuddering, and groaning. Puritan preachers of a later period seemed to revel in the idea that the joys of the blessed were to be deepened and sharpened by beholding the sufferings of the doomed. This followed from a theory that "the sense of the opposite misery intensifies the relish of any joy or pleasure'—a shocking notion first put forth, it seems, in the 13th century by St. Thomas Aquinas, who said: "In order that the saints may enjoy their beatitude more richly, a perfect sight of the punishment of the damned is granted to them." "The sight of hell torments," argues Edwards, "will exalt the happiness of the saints forever * * * it will really make their happiness greater * * * will make them prize it more." A Case in Point IN many months ago I stood beside the bier of a friend who, in a moment of insanity, had taken his own life. He had been always a consistent student of nature, and had laid aside a musical career in order that he might improve his mind by learning what he considered to be eternal truths—certain rational, lofty, enduring principles that he had perceived to underlie natural phenomena. He had learned much, imparted much to others; but I felt that he had received far more than he had given. His life seemed, therefore, to be incomplete. For he did not work at religion; 605 perhaps had little faith in it; and the great question, among all who knew him, was this: What, in the life to come, shall be his fate and portion? There was so much more that he yearned to know, so much also that he would have liked to pass on to others. Interrupted here in the very midst of his work, there is so much that he must yet do that it seems to me he ought to go on in that work, that course, for an indefinite future—go on, as we say, forever. Can we indicate the truth of this conclusion? The Goal of Life OST of us, I suspect, have long since admitted to ourselves that the true aim of life— its goal and purpose—is giving, not receiving; and my friend had received, of light and truth, much more than 'he had given to the world. What shall he do with this accumulated knowledge, this loading of the ship, that has not yet reached its destination? According to the measuring rod of eternal justice, we shall be rated by what we do for the world, by what we give to others, and not by what the world gives to or does for us. The test is always what we have done to help the rest of mankind. Hence I infer that my friend's great work, in which he will finally measure up to the stature of what he may be and is destined to become, must be looked for at last in the nature and the extent of his service to his fellow men. Why He Must Live On H* hermit life, his solitary way, coupled with his keen perceptive powers and brilliant mind, mark his as one of those "souls like stars that shine afar in a fellowless firma- 606 ment." His soul must either shine for others or all its brilliancy will have been in vain. Like Keats, who loved solitude, but who found at last that the reason he would like to live forever was that he might be always in the presence of her whom he loved; so our friend Harry had found friendships an indispensable part of his own life. He and I were friends. Though we rarely met, we were often in spirit together. | Occasionally he would 'phone to me, I to him, to inquire about birds, flowers, trees; or to ask a favor, which each of us knew would be granted before we could voice it. I wish now that I had made occasion to see him oftener; and I cannot think that our comradeship has been forever broken by his death, though he is now out of sight. As in this life we were friends, though separated by wide space, so we are yet friends though separated by a veil that obscures us from each other. This invisible realm, into which he has entered, is very real; "it lies about us like a cloud—a world we do not see; yet the sweet closing of an eye may bring us there to be." He is there, invisible; and I am here; yet, because we are friends, we are together. John W. Foley has thus expressed a real friendship: YOU AND I Just to be a friend of yours And to know you're one of mine, With a friendship that endures, And grows sweeter, like old wine; Just to clasp you by the hand In a friendly sort of way, And to know you understand All the things I want to say. Just to link your arm with mine And go singing to the task,' In a comradeship so fine— This and only this I ask, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE If the day be gray and sad, Just to fight on and go through, Trusting each in each, and glad— You for me and I for you. Just to know you'd come to me, Should I need you, at my call; Just the feeling that should be In the hearts of us—that's all. Just to feel if all beside In the world should prove untrue, I could come then, hopeful-eyed, And be sure of truth from you. Just to feel that you're the sum Of the things in life worth while; Fame and riches go and come, Life's a tear and now a smile; But when all is said and done, When we cast up at the end, Of life's glories there is one Never fading—that's a friend. So, though life is short at best, And we wonder what and why, Here's a toast to pledge with zest: "Friends forever, you and I." Though some days are gray and sad, Just to fight on and go through, And at sunset to be glad, You for me and I for you. As I think of this friend of mine, looking back upon our infrequent meetings to a past, sweet and radiant from his presence and inspiration; so I look forward to the future, filled with promise. He seems still near, though invisible; we are not far apart. The little circle of friends is not really broken, but he is now among those who sit in it unseen, keeping it still complete. That all will yet be well with him, I have no question; that his work will go on to completion seems to me certain. PERPLEXED IN FAITH Perplexed in faith but pure in deeds, At length he rung this music out: There lives more faith in honest doubt, Believe me, than in half the creeds. So wrote Tennyson of the religious uncertainties that troubled his choice friend; and so it is with un- THE DAWN OF HOPE told numbers of people. They want to believe, but encounter many a stumbling block. The idea that they in any way represent lost souls is foreign to the spirit of the New Testament and directly opposed to the views expressly promulgated by Joseph Smith, to whom the fiery furnace of the world to come signified merely the regret, the disappointment, the delay, and the lower stations that apply to those whom the trials of life and the treacheries of men rendered "'slow of heart to believe." In the life to come, they must have a real and impartial opportunity to believe—an opportunity that circumstances denied them here. The Reality of Future Discipline S OME, going to the opposite extreme, say there is no hell; but the 'scripture says, 'The wicked shall be turned into hell, and all the nations that forget God" (Ps. 9:17). Yet the punishment of the wicked, though real and terrible (Alma 40:11, 12, 14), cannot be everlasting; in due time they will be redeemed, some being beaten with few, others with many stripes (Luke 12:47, 48), and each: coming out of the prison (hell) after having paid the uttermost farthing (Matt. 5:26). Of those who enter the kingdom some will be great, others small; some will be rulers over few, others over many cities (Luke 19:12-26); many will be plain citizens. Some shall have the glory of the sun; others, the glory of the moon; others, the glory of the stars (I 'Cor. 15:41, 42), according to every man's work (I Peter, 1:17.; for whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap (Gal. 6:7). All who are capable of spiritual development will be transformed, uplifted and redeemed; and only 607 those incapable of reformation—be they men or devils—shall endure the second death, whatever that may mean; for it is only the "sons of perdition," for whom there is no forgiveness and who must pay the debt themselves. The Sweep of Heaven's Mercy Ve restored gospel offers a salvation as wide as the needs of mankind; a plan that directed our lives and acts in our pre-existent state in heaven, which was our eternal home before we came here and will be after we quit this abode; a gospel that enlightens and guides us while we are on earth, travelers and sojourners in a strange land, as all our fathers were; a mercy that endureth forever, extending beyond the grave into the spirit world to save to the uttermost the sons and daughters of the Most High; a wise and merciful Father, who will continue to deal with us there as he is dealing with us here— truly an Eternal hope, looking to immortality and endless progress, through the Mediator who reconciles the world unto himself, saying, "Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden." "And whosoever will, let him take the waters of life freely." This, I am inclined to think, is the chief 'contribution of Joseph Smith to the religious thought of the present century. As far as I can find, no word or intimation of these ideas had been published prior to 1830, when first he made them known. In these exalting thoughts, which disclose anew the ultimate sweep of the love and mercy of the Most High, we find again the assurance declared of old by the Hebrew seer: "The eternal God is thy refuge, and underneath are the everlasting arms."