[WomansExponent | Vol18 | 1889 | August | Issue: 6 | Title: PIONEER SONG. | Author: Unknown]

PIONEER SONG.

Hark, to the pilgrims joyful cry
	They see that rest is here
As down the Canyon’s road they hie
	To the welcome refuge near.

What sought they from afar?
	Not the gold, or silver mine
Not wealth, or fame, or the spoils of war,
	They sought for their faith a shrine.

They had left their childhoods’ home,
	To find on this arid sod.
A place where they may freely roam
	And safely worship God.

Footsore and weary they come
	With none to welcome or cheer
To seek mid those desert wilds a home
	Tho' the prospect looked but drear.

But, to conquer they had come
	Tho' not for glory or fame
Not to the beat of the warlike drum
	But in freedom’s cause they came.

They gazed in awe, and fear  
	On the vast expanse around
Then sang a hymn of sacred cheer
	That stamped it holy ground.

There were men with hoary hair 
	In that devoted band
Who were seeking refuge where
	No tyrant owned the land.

There were women of steadfast eye
	Led here by their love of truth,
There was manhood there, whose hopes sore
		high,
	And the buoyant step of youth,

The mountain peaks loomed high
	Above that sterile land
And the cloudless summer sky
	Looked down on that weary band.

But when the night cloud dark
	Shrouded the landscape o’er
Those exiles like the tired lark
	Nestled down by the Salt Lake’s shore.

At morn they consecrate the ground
	And bless the soil they trod
Then move with freedom’s step around
	The Zion of their God.
				M. A. Y. Greenhalgh.
July 24th, 1889.


[Column 1]
LOVE.

	Love what is it; I sometimes think we do
not know.  The Savior said: “Love the Lord
thy God, with all thy might, mind and

[Column 2]
strength.” What course shall we pursue to
do this.  One thing is to be prayerful, another
to “honor thy father and thy mother;” also a
great many other things.  Sometimes there
are requirements made of us which go dread-
fully against our natural inclinations.  But
the Lord teaches us that sacrifice brings forth
the blessings of heaven; and he has established
a code of laws, by which we are to be governed
in order to return back into his presence.  Just
as we make laws to govern each other in tem-
poral affairs, which we all know are highly
necessary to maintain peace and good order
in a community, and which tend to sustain
and develop each other’s rights.  Now we all
expect a home in the gseat hereafter, or should
do, but when we contemplate that, let us ask
ourselves—what kind of a home do we want?
Do we desire to mingle with those we love in
our eternal home?  Or can we afford to cast
ourselves out of the fold, in order to gratify
some selfish desire.  The Lord wants us to
have much faith, and I sometimes think we
imagine we have, and want others to think
the same, and are very indignant, if they ex-
press themselves in any different way.  The
Lord says: “Show me your faith without your
works, and I will show you my faith by my
works.” Now we love the Lord and desire to
return back into his presence, what is to be
done?
	Out of love for us God sent His Only Be-
gotten Son, to suffer, bleed and die, and he
teaches us that, “no greater love hath man,
than to lay down our his life for his brother.  Are
we willing to lay down our life for brother or
sister?” I fear not, I sometimes think we are
not always willing to even tell the truth when
it would frequently do them so much good;
and perhaps save them much sorrow, besides
frequently helping them to hold and main-
tain their honor.  A thing which I fear is
sometimes very carelessly dealt with; notwith-
standing, the amount of knowledge we all
have, that when our honor is once degraded, it
is much harder to establish than it was to tear
down.  The Lord wants us to love one another,
and in doing this we prove our love for him.
But we must also love ourselves, and in order
to do this, we do not have to be selfish, un-
grateful, or fail to appreciate the blessiugs we
daily receive from our heavenly father, or dis-
regard the accommodations and kindnesses we
receive from our brothers and sisters.  But I
think if we love ourselves properly, or with a
God-like love, we will take a God-like course.
One might say that is far beyond my reach;
but do not think so, the Lord never told a
people to do any thing which they could not
do.  For he has declared that “as thy day thy
strength shall be;” and who ever knew his
word to fail.
	There is a subject which weighs heavily
upon my mind, and that is the course which
some of our beautiful young girls take in mar-
riage.  Some say they marry for love.  Now
let me warn you to be sure you know what
love is; you may think it is no one’s business,
but beware how you cast your lot, for this life
is not too happy at best, but when we bring
sorrow and misery upon ourselves, by making
a heedless, unwise choice, and take an un-
worthy companion, because we think we love
him dearly; will the Lord be any more apt to
justify us in our choice?  Will he hold us
guiltless.  Besides placing ourselves on very
slippery ground, our posterity have to share

[Column 3]
it with us, so they should have some considera-
tion, more especially when we realize that they
are not here to demand their rights, and in a
matter too, that is apt to effect them in this
world and the next, as well as ourselves.  How
much better we wlll feel when called to
account for the deeds done in the body, if our
children can rise up and call us blessed.
	Now girls let me testify to you that matri-
mony is one of the most important steps that
one has to take in a life time, both for our-
selves and our children.  The Lord tells us if
we lack in wisdom let us ask of Him, “who
giveth liberally and upbraideth not.” So let
us be prayerful and inquire of the Lord, and
he has promised to answer our prayers.  But
we must try to be obedient to his laws and
commandments, and then all will be well, for
obedience is better than sacrifice.  But before
closing I wish to testify to you all that I know
we are engaged in a good work when we at-
tend to the requirements of the Gospel, and
I also know when we labor, sacrifice, or suffer
for the love of God, there is joy and peace
poured into our hearts from a heavenly
source.  So let us be earnest in our desire to
do right and try and perfect ourselves so we will
be worthy of the love of our Heavenly
Father. 			RHODA	E. FOSTER.


