[WomansExponent | Vol16 | 1887 | November | Issue: 12 | Title: LETTER FROM SANDWICH ISLANDS. | Author: Unknown]

LETTER FROM SANDWICH ISLANDS.
Laie, Oahu, Hawaiian Islands,
Oct. 22nd 1887,
To Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith, President of
	the Relief Society of the Chnrch of Jesus
	Christ of Latter-day Saints:
DEAR SISTER:
	Not being supplied with blanks to forward you
a correct report of our work in this part of the
vineyard we are under the necessity of writing you
the condition of the Relief Societies of these
islands, which we are pleased to say speak favor-
ably for themselves at present. There are 22 so-
cieties in all, in which there are 514 members.
Meetings are generally held weekly, working and
testimony meetings alternately. The Societies of
this island are far in advance of those on the
other islands owing to our direct and constant la-
bor among them, as you are doubtless aware that
these poor natives when left by themselves, soon
fall into slothfulness and sin. We are laboring
as energetically as possible to introduce all kinds
of useful work among them. And in order to


make this pleasant and interesting, we purpose
having a fair before our next conference.
Previous to the introduction of this work in our
meetings, their only work has been to assist the
missionaries, donate to the Temple, tithing, etc.
There are few poor among them. Owing to the
delightfulness of the climate, but little clothing is
required, and when the earth will yield their sus-
tenance (poi) they are never in want. Hence, it
has been thought wise to call on them to assist
in these different objects; and since our last con-
ference they have donated four hundred and
eighty-six dollars and twenty-five cents ($486.25,)
to these purposes. We will be pleased to receive
such instructions as you see fit to give us with re-
gard to our labors here for we realize our inexpe-
rience in the duties resting upon us; but we are
very desirous of fulfilling our missions hon-
orably among this people. We will also be
pleased to receive blanks for our next conference
report, that we may better know what is required
of us. You will also favor us by stating the price
per hundred of having blanks printed. The price
of printing here necessitates us making our own,
and if advisable we will send home to have them
printed. Ever praying for the welfare of our
sisters in Zion who are unitedly laboring for the
upbuilding of God’s Kingdom upon the earth.
We have the honor to be,
		Your sister in the Gospel,
			LIBBIE NOALL, President,
			LUCY M. KING,
			NELLIE BBESLEY, Counselors.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
	﻿PRIMARY MEETING AND FAIR.
	We had the pleasure of attending a special
meeting of the P. A. of South Cottonwood
in company with Sister E. C. Clawson, on
Thursday, Nov. 10th, at 11 o’clock a.m., Mrs.
Elizabeth Davis presiding. There was quite a
good attendance of the children, and a pro-
gramme had been prepared for the occasion,
consisting of choice selections of recitations
and songs, which were well rendered. The
meetings in that ward have to be held in dis-
tricts during the winter season, as the distances
are too great for the children to come together
in the ward house; so previous to the change
this special meeting and Fair was held to en-
courage the little ones.
	After the programme was finished, Prest.
Davis asked some questions, that were promptly
answered by the children, and Sisters E. C.
Clawson, E. B. Wells, M. Rawlins and E Davis
each spoke a few minutes, encouraging the
children in the good work in which they were
engaged, and impressing upon them the neces-
sity of obedience, honesty, truthfulness, per-
severance and every virtue that would pre-
pare them for usefulness in the kingdom of God
upon the earth.
	After the close of the meeting excellent re-
freshments were served in the adjoining hall,
where preparations had been made for the
Fair. The Primary children had been assisted
by the Young Ladies' Association in getting
articles for the Fair, and it was a very good
showing. There were on exhibition by the
little boys, vegetables of several kinds, all very
large and of good quality; also little articles
made by ingenious and skillful hands, chairs,
tables, wheelbarrow, and other useful things,
pencil drawings and so on; needle work in
abundance of almost every variety, plain sew-
ing and fancy work, embroidery, lace work
crochet, plain and fancy knitting, wool flowers,
hair flowers, a miniature house cut and covered
with sea-weed, quite picturesque, by the girls.
A young Brother Tipton had made quite a
unique little microscope, and was showing a 
musquito under it, which amused the children,
and even grown people, the tiny legs, horns
and teeth assuming such large proportions.
[Column 2]
﻿There were a number of curiosities from New.
Zealand on exhibition, brought by Bro. E L.
Davis, quantities of ferns, some artistically
arranged and framed, and shells of various
sorts and sizes; the most peculiar was one to
which clung a long heavy branch of yellow
sea-weed, which resembled somewhat a man’s
beard.
	A large frame contained the photo’s of fifty-
five Maories; a brief description of the picture
is given here, and below, also, a description of
a Maori village. a photograph of which was
exhibited at the Fair, and last the Kauri tree,
which gives employment to many people in
digging for the gum, which is one of the chief
exports of the country.

