[Vol41 | September 1954 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Poem | Title: Faithful Farmer| Author: Mabel Law Atkinson]
baby  is  a^  faithful  member  of  the  Priest- 
hood. The  stories  in.  The  Relief  Society 
Magazine  are  the  most  moving  I  have 
ever  read.  Seldom  do  I  complete  one 
without  a  lump  in  my  throat  and  a  thank- 
fulness in  my  heart  for  this  type  of  in- 
spiring literature.  "The  Way/'  by  Ruth 
Moody  Ostegar  (July  1954)  is  particu- 
larly moving  and  inspiring  for  all  mothers 
trying  to  rear  their  children  worthy 
enough  to  be  called  on  missions.  The 
lesson  department  is  excellent  and,  as  a 
social  science  teacher,  I  spend  hours  study- 
ing each  lesson.  The  selections  for  the 
cover  and  the  frontispiece  are  always 
worthy  of  the  contents  inside. 
— Elizabeth  G.  Towner 
Warrington,  Florida 
Even  though  we  are  so  far  away  here 
on  this  tiny  island,  The  Relief  Society 
Magazine  helps  to  keep  us  in  touch  with 
home.  We  have  a  very  active  Relief  So- 
ciety group  in  this  wonderful  branch.  We 
average  ten  to  fourteen  women  to  our 
meetings.  Even  though  transportation 
and  a  family  of  little  ones  make  a  prob- 
lem in  attending  meeting,  the  wonderful 
spirit  that  dwells  in  our  meetings  compen- 
sates for  our  efforts.  May  the  Lord  bless 
you  dear  sisters  in  your  work  that  reaches 
the  hearts  of  so  many  women  in  all  parts 
of  the  world. 
—Jean  H.  Hall 
President,  Guam  Branch 
Relief  Society 
Page  570 
We  are  continually  receiving  testimonies 
of  the  great  worth  of  the  wonderful 
Magazine,  which  is  not  only  a  guide  to 
our  Relief  Society  lessons,  but  is  also  a 
spiritual  guide  to  us  as  mothers  in  our 
homes  rearing  our  families. 
— Vera  Hales 
Great  Neck,  New  York 
I  love  The  Relief  Society  Magazine  and 
have  subscribed  for  it  for  thirty  years,  with 
the  exception  of  one  year. 
— Dora  Toone  Brough 
Tremonton,  Utah 
We  here  think  that  The  Relief  Society 
Magazine  is  one  of  the  most  interesting 
and  wonderful  magazines  that  can  be  had. 
We  are  all  servicemen's  wives,  and  the 
Magazine  always  brings  a  little  bit  of 
home  to  us. 
— Mrs.  Gaylene  A.  Glaefke 
Kindley  Air  Force  Base 
Bermuda 
I  have  enjoyed  the  Magazine  very 
much,  and  I  can  see  where  it  does  much 
good  in  our  missionary  work.  There  are 
a  few  of  the  English-speaking  sisters  here 
in  Finland  who  take  the  Magazine,  and 
they  have  received  a  great  deal  there- 
from. It  is  a  wonderful  thing  to  see  light 
and  truth  come  into  the  world. 
— Elder  James  D.  Martin 
Jakobstad,  Finland 
We  enjoy  The  Relief  Society  Magazine 
and  look  forward  to  the  next  copy  each 
month.  I  have  never  enjoyed  a  story 
more  than  Sister  Alice  Morrey  Bailey's 
"The  Deeper  Melody."  All  my  friends 
were  sorry  when  it  was  concluded.  Do 
you  think  it  would  be  possible  to  get  this 
lovely  talented  writer  to  go  on  and  give 
us  another  chapter  or  two,  a  sequel? 
Seems  like  everj'one  would  just  love  to 
hear  more  about  this  happy  little  family 
and  those  adorable  little  children.  Tell 
Sister  Bailey  we  will  all  take  the  Magazine 
forever. 
—Mrs.  Hattie  Gibby 
Roy,  Utah