[Vol41 | September 1954 | Sequence: 40 | Category: Fiction | Title: Work | Author: Gardner]
Vor ITleeting—Selection, Care, and Use of Household Equipment (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 3—Washers and Dryers Rhea H. Gardner For Tuesday, December 14, 1954 OME laundering is both an art and a science. It is an art because appreciation and_ skill are necessary in the buying and upkeep of the family clothing and household textiles. It is a science because much chemistry and mechanics are involved in the process. Laundry is closely related to child care, home management, consumer buying, clothing construction, home furnishings, and personal grooming. 'The selection of equipment and supplies needed to do the job well is, therefore, an important responsibility of every homemaker. While the use of a good washer 'does not of itself guarantee a snowy white wash, it is today considered essential in making such a wash possible. There are on the market many good washers in both the automatic and conventional types, but there is no one "best washer" for all families. The automatic washer will no doubt be preferred by the homemaker who:, 1. Wants to be free to do other things while the laundry process is going on. 2. Does 'not have a definite laundry room nor space for one. 3. Is seriously disturbed by the muss that accompanies the use of a conventional washer. 4. Is more concerned with saving time 630 than money. (Automatic washers, in general, are more costly to purchase, install, operate, and service than conventional washers ). 5. Has small children who constantly require a change of clothing. 6. Has some physical disability that is aggravated when washing is done the conventional way. The conventional washer will likely better suit the needs of one who: 1. Has an inadequate hot water supply essential for automatic washers. 2. Is perfectly satisfied with her present washing habits and sees no advantage in changing them. 3. Is more conscious of cost in dollars than in time. 4. Has a conveniently located and arranged laundry room adapted to the use of a conventional washer. Regardless of the make of washer you choose, the importance of buying one made by a reliable manufacturer and distributed by a local dealer, whose integrity and fair play have been proved, should not be underestimated. The assurance that when and if repairs are needed, the local dealer will be able to take care of them for you, is more important than getting any one certain make. If you choose a conventional washer, you will have the choice of a spinner or wringer type. 'he spinner leaves clothes less wrinkled than the wringer. Otherwise, the mechanics are similar. Safety is an important feature to consider when selecting a washer with a power wringer. The release should work at a touch and be within easy reach from any position at the machine. Washing. Action in automatic washers is of either the agitator or tumbler type. Both should permit the user to adjust the washing cycle RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1954 to special needs, such as repeating some steps, skipping or shortening others, and adding only slightly soiled articles during the washing cycle. The agitator type generally is more effective in removing deep soil than the tumbler. Regardless of the type of washer you use, certain practices are important for good results: 1. Never overload. Clothes should move freely about in the water during each step of the washing process. Studies have proved that soil is removed from clothes best when washer loads are neither too large nor too small. 2. Spot-clean excessively soiled areas, such as shirt collars and cuffs. It is wise not to let clothing become so soiled that it is difficult to restore the normal brightness of color. If water is hard and soap is to be used, a water softening agent is both economical and essential for continued snowy white washes. 4. Use plenty of hot water. Most of the new materials on the market can stand hot water. Rinsing of clothes is also more successful if warm water is used. Facts one should consider when buying an automatic clothes dryer: 1. What method is used to control lint and moisture so that they will not be bothersome while the dryer is in use? 2. Can temperature and drying time be controlled for articles that would be damaged if left in a high temperature for the full length of the drying cycle? 3. What voltage will be needed? Some dryers operate on 110 voltage, others require 220 volts. The latter produce more heat and cut down the drying time considerably, but require special wiring. The best source of information concerning the care of equipment ls the instruction book which comes with each piece of equipment. It contains suggestions for using it economically, effectively, and safely. Use the instruction book often as a LESSON DEPARTMENT reference and guide for efficient use and a long period of service. Thoughts for Discussion 1. In what way has new, improved 631 laundry equipment contributed toward better home life for you and your family? 2. From your experience, what advice would you give a bride regarding the purchase of laundry equipment? Arene —I. Iterantiee of England Lesson 43—Dante Gabriel and Christina Rossetti (1828-1882) (1830-1894) Elder Briant S.