[Vol41 | September 1954 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Fiction | Title: Womans | Author: Cannon]
(bixti/    LJears  Jrgo 
Excerpts  From  tlic  \{^omnns  Exponent,  September  i,  nnd  September  15,  1894 
"For  the  Rights  of  the  Women  of  Zion  and  the  Rights  of  the 
Women  of  All  Nations" 
A  CONSTITUTION  FOR  UTAH:  The  men  who  frame  the  Constitution  for  the 
Stnte  of  Utah  are  expeeted  to  build  a  structure  that  will  be  permanent,  that  will  ha\e  a 
sure  foundation  and  will  not  need  eontinually  patching  up  because  it  is  not  equally 
well  poised  and  properly  balanced  in  all  its  parts;  the  strangers  who  visit  beautiful  Utah 
will  agree  that  it  has  the  advantage  of  almost  any  other  section  of  countrv  in  our  broad 
land  in  natural  facilities  and  in  beauty  of  location,  and  therefore  it  should  have  the 
best,  the  wisest  and  the  strongest  Constitution,  to  correspond  with  its  belongings. 
— Editorial 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MEETING  IN  THE  FOURTEENTH  WARD,  SALT 
LAKE  CITY:  .  .  .  Sister  L.  D.  Alder:  "I  have  worked  at  the  straw  work  years  ago,  wc 
had  hats  for  sale  also  rag  carpets,  in  the  Relief  Society.  I  am  anxious  these  home  in- 
dustries should  succeed."  .  .  .  Sister  Susan  Grant  of  Davis  County  said:  "I  take  great 
interest  in  Home  Industry.  Always  trade  at  the  Woman's  Store.  Also  advise  the 
sisters  in  our  stake  to  do  so  ...  .  The  Lord  tells  us  to  adorn  ourselves  \\ith  the  work- 
manship of  our  own  hands  ....  In  years  past  I  always  felt  like  getting  in  a  corner 
and  staying  there;  since  taking  an  acti\e  part  in  public  duties,  have  experienced  great 
joy  in  my  labors." 
— V.  R.  Young,  Sec. 
HARVEST  TIME 
Harvest  time,  and  a  bright  gold  sun, 
Sends  its  beams  o'er  the  yellowing  fields; 
The  heavy  grain,  and  sweet-scented  meadows. 
All  tell  of  bounteous  yields; 
The  clang  of  mo^^■er,  and  clash  of  scythe 
Are  gathering  the  yield  of  the  soil; 
E^'ery  where  is  fruitfulness 
To  gladden  the  sons  of  toil  .... — M.  R.  T.  Griffith 
VERSATILE  WOMEN:  Charlotte  Carmiehael  Stopes  in  British  Free-Women— 
Their  Historical  Privilege,  finds  that  women  have  been  Queens  Consort;  Oueens 
Regnant;  and  Oueens  Regent.  That  as  noble  women  they  ha\e  reeei\'ed  homage,  held 
courts  ....  could  and  did  inherit  public  offices  .  .  .  lliat  as  peeresses  they  could 
be,  and  were  summoned  to  Parliament  in  person  or  by  proxy. 
NOT  A  PARADISE:  The  historian  tells  us  that  it  was  no  garden  of  the  Hes- 
perides  upon  which  the  pioneers  gazed  that  memorable  July  morning.  Aside  from  its 
scenic  splendor,  which  was  indeed  magnificent,  there  was  little  to  invite,  and  much  to 
repel  in  the  prospect  presented  to  their  view  ...  on  all  sides  a  seemingly  endless  waste 
of  sage  brush  bespangled  with  sunflowers — the  paradise  of  the  lizard,  the  cricket,  and 
the  rattlesnake  ...  a  silence  unbroken,  save  by  the  cricket's  ceaseless  chirp,  the  roar 
of  the  mountain  torrent,  or  the  whirr  and  twitter  of  the  passing  bird  ...  a  desolation 
of  centuries  ....  — Selected 
Page  588

Woman's  Sphere 
Ramona  \V.  Cannon 
r\OROTIIY  CANFIELD  FISH- 
ER, one  of  America's  most  be- 
loved writers,  has  recently  published 
Vernionf  7>adifjon.  It  celebrates 
the  worth  of  a  free  people  who  haxe 
stamped  tlie  American  nation  as  a 
whole  with  something  of  their 
character. 
PEEVAII     M.     ROSENTHAL, 
leader  in  social  work  education, 
conceived  and  is  largelv  responsible 
for  a  program  for  aiding  epileptics. 
It  is  the  first  plan  in  the  United 
States  to  combine  medical  treat- 
ment, research,  vocational  training, 
and  social  adjustments  for  sufferers 
from  epilepsy. 
ANNA  ELLA  CARROLL  and 
^  ABRAHAM  LINCOLN  (Fal- 
mouth and  Company,  Manchester, 
Maine)  is  a  new  book  by  Svdney 
Greenbie  and  his  wife,  Marjorie 
Barstow  Greenbie.  It  tells  the 
authentic  story  of  Anne,  more  abo- 
litionist than  Lincoln  himself, 
though  a  Maryland  aristocrat  from 
a  family  of  slaveholders.  Her  keen 
political  insight,  talent  for  writing, 
and  military  genius  were  ever  at  the 
command     of     President     Lincoln. 
piVE    Latter-day    Saint    students 
from    Utah,    Idaho,    and    Cali- 
fornia, are  winning  special  recogni- 
tion for  their  musical  accomplish- 
ments in  New  York  City.  Lucretia 
Ferre  was  soprano  soloist  in  'The 
Messiah"  oratorio  in  Town  Hall  and 
has  had  roles  in  operas  and  musi- 
cales  with  the  Arundel  Opera 
Company  in  Maine.  Lila  Dickson 
has  sung  the  alto  roles  in  four  ora- 
torios. Renee  Sheranian  has  ap- 
peared both  as  harp  and  as  soprano 
soloist  in  important  events.  Beryl 
Jensen,  contralto,  is  one  of  the  few 
Utahns  e\'er  to  appear  as  a  soloist 
with  the  New  York  Oratorio  So- 
ciety. Naomi  Nokes  has  appeared 
as  soloist  in  concerts  in  New  York 
City. 
I7OR  the  first  time  in  history, 
women's  ownership  of  life  in- 
surance has  reached  the  fifty  billion 
dollar  mark,  according  to  a  survey 
issued  bv  the  Institute  of  Life  In- 
surance. 
■DIRTHDAY  congratulations  are 
extended  to  Mrs.  Amanda  Hart- 
man,  Los  Angeles,  California,  ninety- 
three;  Mrs.  Emily  S.  Crandall  and 
Mrs.  Emma  S.  Cranmer,  twins, 
Springville,  Utah,  ninetv-one;  Mrs. 
Lucy  Robertson,  Springville,  ninety; 
Mrs.  Lucinda  Pace  Redd,  Monti- 
cello,  Utah,  ninety;  Mrs.  Margaret 
Honeycombe  LeBriton,  Tooele, 
Utah,  ninety. 
Page  589

EDIITOWAI 
VOL.  41 
SEPTEMBER  1954 
NO.  9 
L^ongratulattons  to  LP  resident   Ujavid  (ly.    i/LcJxay 
on  ulis  ibightii'Cyirst   Ujirthaag 
September  8,  1954 
'T^HE  general  board  and  members 
of  Relief  Society  throughout  the 
stakes  and  missions  of  the  Church 
extend  birthday  congratulations  to 
our  bclo\'cd  President,  David  O. 
McKay-  We  rejoice  in  the  inspira- 
tion of  his  leadership  and  in  his 
deep  and  abiding  spirituality.  It  is 
with  special  gratitude  that  we  ex- 
press our  appreciation  for  President 
McKay's  travels  abroad  to  the  far 
stakes  and  missions  of  the  Church, 
and  we  rejoice  with  the  European 
Saints  that  our  Prophet,  Seer,  and 
Revelator  has  stood  upon  the  Eng- 
lish and  the  Swiss  temple  sites  and 
dedicated  these  sacred  premises  for 
the  erection  of  temples  to  the  Most 
High.    And  we  feel,  with  the  saints 
in  Africa,  in  South  America,  Central 
America,  Mexico,  and  the  islands  of 
the  sea,  a  participation  with  them 
in  the  joy  of  seeing  President 
McKay  and  hearing  his  voice  lifted 
in  wisdom  and  in  reverence,  and  in 
praise  to  the  Heavenly  Father  for 
the  restored  gospel  and  the  oppor- 
tunity of  taking  its  message  to  the 
far  corners  of  the  earth.  We  are 
grateful  that  the  days  and  the  years 
of  President  McKay's  life  have  been 
lengthened,  and  it  is  our  prayer  that 
he  may  enjoy  continued  health  and 
strength  to  perform  his  labors  on 
the  earth,  and  to  instruct  and  bless 
and  inspire  all  who  seek  to  know 
the  will  of  our  Father  in  Heaven. 
ioe    LJe   Jvind 
TN  striving  continually  to  grow  bet- 
ter, there  are  three  words  which, 
if  followed,  steadily  advance  one 
along  the  path  of  progression.  Paul 
demanded  of  the  Ephesians,  ''And 
be  ye  kind  one  to  another-''  If  every- 
one would  follow  this  advice,  the 
worst  would  become  better;  the  bet- 
ter, good;  and  good  would  turn  into 
joy. 
Everyone's  day  is  filled  with 
small  actions,  which,  with  one's  in- 
nermost thoughts,  total  up  that 
day's  character.  Kind  thoughts  re- 
Page  390 
fleeted  in  kind  words  and  deeds 
strengthen  character  development. 
And  after  the  evening  is  past,  reflec- 
tion on  that  day's  happenings  brings 
satisfaction  and  contentment.  But 
if  kindliness  has  not  been  the  well- 
spring  of  the  day,  then  night  reflec- 
tions turn  bitter.  That  clipped 
sentence,  which  seemed  so  apropos 
and  smart  at  the  time  it  was  ut- 
tered, loses  its  cleverness  at  the  re- 
membrance of  the  flush  and  hurt 
look  on  the  face  of  the  one  to  whom 
the  remark  was  directed.  The  quick-