[Vol41 | September 1954 | Sequence: 45 | Category: Lesson | Title: LESSON | Author: Monson]
LESSON DEPARTMENT Sheology—Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon Lesson 27—Missions of Other Sons of Mosiah Elder Leland H. Monson (Text: The Book of Mormon: Alma, chapter 21:1-8; chapters 22-28) For 'Tuesday, December 7, 1954 Objective: To show the results of exercising faith in one's self, faith in a people, and faith in one's God. Aaron Preaches in and Middoni URING the period of time when Ammon was actively engaged in his missionary work in the lands of Ishmael and Middoni, Aaron, Omner, and Himmi had been equally as active in other lands belonging to the Lamanites. When we view the achievements of these missionaries over the short span of fourteen years, we begin to realize what diligent missionaries laboring in the vineyard of God can accomplish. When these missionaries departed from each other, near the borders of Lamanite territory, each one followed the promptings of the Spirit. Aaron went to the land of Jerusalem. In this land of Jerusalem the Amulonites, descendants of the leader Amulon of the wicked priests of King Noah, the Amalekites, and the Lamanites had united in building the city of Jerusalem. These Amalckites and Amulonites, Nephite apostates from the 624 j erusalem Church and kingdom of God, were more wicked towards the Nephites than were the Lamanites. When Aaron first entered Jerusalem it was his misfortune to preach first to the Amalekites in their synagogues. Most of the Amalekites and Amulonites belonged to the order of Nehor. 'The members believed that God would save all mankind. In Jerusalem, they had built many synagogues in which to worship. As Aaron was addressing a group of Amalckites in one of these synagogues, one of their number began to contend with him: Hast thou seen an angel? Why do not angels appear unto us? Behold are not this people as good as thy people?... How knowest thou that we are not a rightcous people? (Alma 21:5-6). ".. Believest thou," asked Aaron, "that the Son of God shall come to redeem mankind from their sins?" (Alma 21:7). The Amalekite denied any such belief. 'Then it was that Aaron be- LESSON DEPARTMENT gan to explain the scriptures to him. He told him of the future appearance of Christ to mankind, of the resurrection of all mankind, and of the impossibility of the redemption of mankind except through the atoning blood of Jesus Christ. But Aaron's exposition of these precious truths served only to arouse anger. The people began to mock him. He, therefore, departed from their synagogue and traveled to the village of Ani-Anti. There, Aaron met Muloki and Ammah 'and his brethren actively engaged in spreading the gospel. Few people, however, would listen to them. The group, therefore, determined to go to the land of Middoni to see if the people there would respond more readily to their message. But few believed the words which thev taught. The people expressed their bitterness towards the missionaries by casting. Aaron and a certain number of his brethren..." (Alma 21:13) into prison. Sionaries fled to regions roundabout. After suffering many indignities, much pain from being bound, and much anxiety from lack of food and water, they were delivered by Lamoni and Ammon. 'They went forth from the prison to preach in all the synagogues of the Amalekites and of the Lamaniies where thev could gain admittance. It was at this time that success began to crown their efforts. Many accepted the truth, were convinced of their sins, and became fully aware of the incorrectness of the tradition of the Lamanites. Aaron in the Land of Nephi After Lamoni and Ammon departed from Middoni for the land of The other mis- I 625 Ishmael, Aaron was directed by the spirit to go to the land of Nephi. In this land of Nephi lived Lamoni's father, who was king over all the Lamanites in the regions roundabout. Under the inspiration of the Lord, Aaron and his brethren went directly to the king. Bowing before him, Aaron said, ". Behold, O king, we are the brethren of Ammon, whom thou hast delivered out of prison" (Alma 22:2 To their surprise, the king welcomed them. He said that he had been "... Somewhat troubled in mind because of the generosity and the greatness of the words..." (Alma 22:3) of Ammon and wanted to hear more of his message. (We recall the meeting of Ammon and Lamoni and Lamoni's father as given in the former lesson. See Alma 20:8-26. ) In response to the king's request to hear more of the truth, Aaron instructed him further, asking if he believed in God. 'The king responded favorably, saying: I believe that fine Great Spirit created all things, and I desire that ye should tell me concerning all these things, and I will believe thy words (Alma 22:11). Conversion of King and Lamanites After Aaron had explained the fundamentals of the gospel, the king asked what he might do to merit eternal life. "... Behold, said he, I will give up all that I possess, yea, I will forsake my kingdom, that I may receive this great joy" (Alma 22:15). He was told that he must repent of his sins and have faith in the Redeemer of the world. Overpowered by the Spirit as he prayed for a remission of sins,. He was struck as if he were dead" (Alma 22:18). 626 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1954 When the queen was called, she thought Aaron and his brethren were the cause of the king's fall, so she commanded her servants to slay the missionaries, but the servants were afraid. She then told them to call the people to kill Aaron and his brethren. Fearing what might happen, Aaron: "... Put forth his hand and raised the king from the earth, and said unto him: Stand. And he stood upon his feet, receiving his strength" (Alma 22:22). As a result of this miracle the king ministered unto his household, "... Insomuch that his whole household were converted unto the Lord" (Alma 22:23). The king asked Aaron and his brethren to teach the gospel to his people. He sent a_ proclamation throughout all the land, among all his people, commanding them not to lay their hands on Ammon, Aaron, Omner, or Himni, or any of their brethren in their missionary labors. (See Alma 23:1.) The king was anxious that:.. His people might be convinced concerning the wicked traditions of their fathers, and that they might be convinced that they were all brethren, and that they ought not to murder, nor to plunder, nor to steal, nor to commit adultery, nor to commit any number of wickedness.... As many of the Lamanites as believed in their preaching, and were converted unto the Lord, never did fall away (Alma 23:3, 6). The missionaries now met with great success. 'Thousands accepted the truth and made their lives correspond with it. Many Lamanites in the lands of Ishmael, Middoni, Shilom, Shemlon, and in the cities of Nephi, Lemuel, and Shimnilon were converted, but only one Amalekite and no Amulonites were converted. Converted Lamanites Called Anti-Nephi-Lehies The king and his converted people were desirous of adopting a new name to distinguish them from those who had not received the gospel. 'They decided to call themselves Anti-Nephi-Lehies.