[Vol41 | September 1954 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Fiction | Title: New]
[New Serial "Contentment Is a Lovely Thing" to Begin in October]

We rejoice in the inspiration of his leadership and in his deep and abiding spirituality. It is with special gratitude that we express our appreciation for President McKay's travels abroad to the far stakes and missions of the Church, and we rejoice with the European Saints that our Prophet, Seer, and Revelator has stood upon the English and the Swiss temple sites and dedicated these sacred premises for the erection of temples to the Most High. And we feel, with the saints 'Be Ye N striving continually to grow better, there are three words which, if followed, steadily advance one along the path of progression. Paul demanded of the Ephesians, "And be ye kind one to another." If everyone would follow this advice, the worst would become better; the better, good; and good would turn into joy. Everyone's day is filled with small actions, which, with one's innermost thoughts, total up that day's character. Kind thoughts rePage 590 in Africa, in South America, Central America, Mexico, and the islands of the sea, a participation with them in the joy of seeing President McKay and hearing his voice lifted in wisdom and in reverence, and in praise to the Heavenly Father for the restored gospel and the opportunity of taking its message to the far corners of the earth. We are grateful that the days and the years of President McKay's life have been lengthened, and it is our prayer that he may enjoy continued health and strength to perform his labors on the earth, and to instruct and bless and inspire all who seek to know the will of our Father in Heaven. Kind flected in kind words and deeds strengthen character development. And after the evening is past, reflection on that day's happenings brings satisfaction and contentment. But if kindliness has not been the wellspring of the day, then night reflections turn bitter. That clipped sentence, which seemed so apropos and smart at the time it was uttered, loses its cleverness at the remembrance of the flush and hurt look on the face of the one to whom the remark was directed. 'The quick- EDITORIAL ness of the wit, tinged with a little malice, no longer seems justified. Some people seem to feel called upon to pluck the mote out of their brother's. Eye while overlooking their own beam. And still, harsh criticism and unkind words do not have as much effect in awakening in a wrongdoer a desire to improve himself as do kindly words of understanding. "A soft answer turneth away wrath" is as true today as when first expressed. 'The mainspring to nobler living wells up from the inner soul as a result o repentance.: The wife and mother has much to do with setting the tone of the home, and the exercise of kindness is an essential ingredient for establishing a tone of love. By studying critically her own conduct and acknowledging that there are two sides to any question, the homemaker inclines her heart to kindness rather than criticism. By stating to herself the two sides of an occurrence which has brought hurt to her, she comes to appreciate the feeling of the other party to a misunderstanding. Her heart then can begin to purge itself of selfishness and take a kindly, understanding view. Having gained this perspective, she looks with a proper attitude upon weaknesses of her husband known to her. In addressing the Relief Society members, the Prophet Joseph admonished them, "When you go home, never give a cross or unkind 591 word to your husbands, but let kindness, charity and love crown your works henceforward" (D. H. C. IV, page 607). Through this consideration and kindness, the marriage relationship, to last throughout eternity, becomes ever closer and dearer. While a mother's teen-age children may exasperate and provoke her sorely, and bring a stinging retort to her lips, yet a recollection of the command to be kind, will modify her manner of correction and result in a better understanding and future co-operation with her children. Younger children need to be firmly and particularly corrected and trained stcadfastly. 'Vhe spirit of rebellion and bitterness which may result is usually dissolved before it hardens and Icads to serious misunderstandings, if children are corrected in a spirit of kindliness. The aged stand in great need of kindly words of appreciation and encouragement. 'They can go with- ~out material largess better than spiritual compassion. Kindness arises from a cleep-seated characteristic of benevolence; and the heart as well as the lips must speak kindness to earn the approbation of the Savior: "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it™unto"me."' "Be ye kind," are three words with vital significance to every Latter-day Saint woman. —M. C. S. Woteds. V0 THE FIELD Annual General Relief Society Conference HE annual general Relief Socicty conference will be held Wednesday and 'Thursday, September 29 and 30, 1954. On 'Vhursday afternoon in the 'l'abernacle, a meeting will be held to which the general membership of Relief Socicty and the public are ivited.