[Vol41 | September 1954 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Fiction | Title: No | Author: Kilian]
NO SECRETS BETWEEN THEM Mrs. Thatcher cleared her throat. "It's hard,' she half whispered. "The telling of it is almost harder than the thing itself." She forced herself to continue. "Jon, remember when you took me to the doctor's about two months ago?" Mr. Thatcher leaned forward and laid his wrinkled brown hand on hers. "You don't have to tell me, my dear—I know," he said softly. There was a moment of deep, searching silence between them. "You know, Jonathan?" Mrs. Thatcher asked incredulously, even as a great wave of relief swept over her. "But how? I thought I had been so careful not to." Her husband smiled tenderly. "You have been careful, Mary. At what cost I will never know. And since you seemed to want it that way, I have kept silent." "What made you realize, Jon? Did that doctor say anything to you? If he did," Mrs. Thatcher's gentle voice rose to an unnatural crescendo, "I'll never trust his word again!" "No, no, it wasn't Dr. Jolby, Mary," Mr. Thatcher said hastily. "It—it was the camellias." "The camellias?" his wife echoed blankly. "Yes," he said. "You remember how we stopped at the nursery on the way home from the doctor's office that day, to buy a new camellia plant for the back garden?" "T remember," Mrs. Thatcher answered. "It was that lovely fullbodied one that's bursting with promise right this minute." She looked out the window as if to verify her statement. "They're going to have multicolored blossoms, too, just as the 601 man said,' she added enthusiastically. "This morning I saw some slivers of deep pink and white peeping out from the swirls of the green buds." She seemed almost to have forgotten the burden of their conversation. "How you love camellias!' Mr. Thatcher said. "They quite take you out of yourself, don't they?" "Yes, Jonathan, they're very dear to my heart." She paused, and her husband saw the solemn shadow of reality come back into her eyes. "That's why I." she began impulsively, then stopped in confusion. "Exactly so." Mr. Thatcher's voice was deep with emotion. "That's how I knew, Mary, what you've been trying to tell me this afternoon." RS. Thatcher raised her eyebrows questioningly. "You love flowers so much, Mary," her husband explained slowly, "that you've always wanted to watch them grow from the very beginning. If it was a choice between seeds and plants, as with zinnias, you always took seeds. Maybe you felt your eye on them would make them grow straighter and fuller than they would have in a nursery," he added teasingly. "Oh, come now, Jon," Mrs. Thatcher chuckled. "But you see, don't you?" she added seriously. "It's kind of like wanting to adopt a tiny baby from a foundling home instead of a half-grown child, if you had the choice, so you could have the joy of watching and shaping its development from the first." Mr. Thatcher nodded understandingly. "And by the same token," 602 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1954 he said, 'when it came to shrubs or trees, whereas most folks wanted ones that would bear blossoms or fruit right away, you'd always buy the tiniest bush, the smallest tree." dently pointed out to you the smallest, puniest plant in the place." Mr. Thatcher smiled with infinite love and compassion as he reached over once more and put her hand in his. "This time," he went on, "you said quietly, 'No, Jonathan, let's take a large one, one that will be sure to bloom well this very season.' And then I knew." 'Patience costs nothing, Jon, and I've always had plenty." "Always, until this time," her husband said softly. "On that last trip to the nursery, when I confiio A Letter From Mother My Dear Children: Our wonderful chapel is now completed, and our dedication of it to God's work is over. But the spiritual feeling of the dedicatory prayer and the services held then are still a vital part of the whole building. I wish you could all have had this inspiring and thrilling experience with me. ) There is one thing I have noticed when any of the General Authorities of the Church offers a prayer, he is always careful to speak the name of Deity with reverence and in plainness. I think we do appeal to our Heavenly Father with careful reverence and humility. But how many of us give full meaning to the closing of our prayers when we speak in the name of Jesus Christ, our Savior? 'That bothers me sometimes. It seems we become too hurried to think of the sacredness of his name. Have you noticed how children are often in the habit of saying "In the name of Jesus Christ" indistinctly, with their words run together, at the conclusion of a blessing or a prayer. Do your little ones speak like that? When I was a small girl, one day in Sunday School our stake superintendent was visiting us, and when he spoke to us he remarked about the reverence with which the blessings on the sacrament had been said. One brother was mentioned especially, and when we came to think of it, he did pronounce the prayer beautifully, with utmost faith and reverence right to the end. Upon one occasion special respect was paid to Jesus. Do you remember when Mary came to Jesus and used her precious ointment to anoint his head and feet? Some criticized her for being so extravagant, but Jesus did not. Some said the ointment should have been sold and the money given to the poor, but Jesus said the poor were always with them, but they would not always have him with them. He declared that whenever the gospel was preached this incident would be told as a memorial to her. Perhaps, if we explain to the little folks how sacred the name of Jesus is, and how he loves us, they will speak his name reverently. The fruit season is at hand, and our Relief Society bazaar is not too far away, so I am as busy. As a mother with twins. I love you, darlings.