[Vol41 | September 1954 | Sequence: 39 | Category: Fiction | Title: Visiting | Author: Jacobs]
[Visiting Teacher Messages- "For Behold, This Life Is the Time for Men to Prepare to Meet God Leone O. Jacobs]
4.  How  can  we,  as  mothers,  help  to 
strengthen  missionary  work  in  our  Church? 
Visiting  cJeacher  ii  iessages 
Book  of  Mormon  Gems  of  Truth 
Lesson  27— "For  Behold,  This  Life  Is  the  Time  for  Men  to  Prepare  to  Meet 
God;  Yea,    Behold  the  Day  of  This  Life  Is  the  Day  for  Men  to 
Perform    Their   Labors"   (Alma    34:32). 
Leone  O.  Jacobs 
For  Tuesday,  December  7,  1954 
To  stress  the  necessity  of  working  out  our  salvation  here  and  now, 
Objective: 
in  mortality. 
'T^HE  more  we  read  and  ponder 
Amulek's  instructions,  the  more 
we  are  impressed  with  the  fact  that 
every  moment  of  this  hfe  is  extreme- 
ly valuable  to  us.  This  earth  life  is 
of  such  great  importance  that  it 
determines  the  status  of  our  entire 
future  existence.  Though  it  is  a 
relatively  brief  period,  we  shall  be 
judged  by  the  performance  we  ren- 
der here.  This  life  is  a  time  of  pre- 
paration, the  plowing  and  the  sow- 
ing time.  The  harvest  comes  later 
—  eternal  life  in  the  presence  of 
our  Heavenly  Father,  if  we  prove 
worthy. 
In  The  Pearl  of  Great  Price  w^e 
read: 
And  we  will  prove  them  herewith,  to 
see  if  they  will  do  all  things  whatsoever 
the  Lord  their  God  shall  command  them 
(Abraham  3:25). 
From  The  Discouises  oi  Brigham 
Young: 
It  has  also  been  decreed  by  the  Al- 
mighty that  spirits,  upon  taking  bodies, 
shall  forget  all  they  had  known  previous^', 
or  they  could  not  have  a  day  of  trial — 
could  not  have  an  opportunity  for 
proving  themselves  in  darkness  and  tempta- 
tion, in  unbelief  and  wickedness,  to  pro\e 
themselves  \\orthy  of  eternal  existence 
(Chapter  IV,  Pre-Kxistcnce,  The  Plan  of 
Salvation,  1925  Edition,  page  60). 
The  purpose  of  this  life  is  to 
gain  knowledge  and  experience  with 
the  body  and  spirit  combined,  and, 
through  this  experience,  to  prove 
our  worthiness.  The  labors  of  this 
life  cannot  be  postponed  until  some
