[Vol41 | September 1954 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: Ralph | Author: Johnson]
[Ralph Dorothy A. Johnson]
The  whole  family  had  become  attached  to  that  little  shovel,  and  it  had  somehow 
become  a  symbol  of  Ralph.  We  had  matched  breathlessly  the  morning  of  his  sixth 
birthday  as  Grandfather  and  Grandmother  had  handed  him  his  bulky  present. 
"Oh,  boy!  a  shovel  ....  Now  I  can  really  irrigate  your  garden.  Mother." 
How  his  eyes  had  danced  as  Grandfather  had  showed  him  his  name  printed  on 
the  handle!  ....  "Just  so  the  kids  will  know  that  Ralph  is  going  to  really  help  run 
the  farm  this  summer." 
And  how  he  had  helped!  The  whole  farm  personnel  had  smiled  at  his  enthusiasm. 
A  familiar  sight  it  had  been  to  sec  him  patrol  the  water  ditches,  his  shovel  over  his 
shoulder,  tightl}'  gripped  by  a  hand  in  his  working  glo\c,  patched  blue  jeans,  scuffed 
up  red  Indian  boots,  determination  in  his  stride,  a  proud  swing  to  his  shoulders,  his 
eyes  alight  with  the  feeling  of  usefulness  and  achie\ement. 
"You  don't  need  to  worry  about  your  strawberries.  Mother,  I  have  it  all  figured 
out  just  how  I'm  going  to  run  the  water." 
No  irrigation  engineer  could  have  had  more  thrill  from  his  blue  prints  of  a  new 
dam  than  Ralph  did  from  making  his  water  behaxc.  Such  an  elaborate  system  of  dams 
and  ditches!     And  then  the  glow  of  satisfaction  when  his  job  had  been  done. 
"\\^ell,  I  bet  that  water  subbed  through  every  row.  You  sure  ought  to  get  a 
good  fall  crop  of  berries.     I  l^ct  we  even  have  enough  for  the  magpies." 
My  little  pal,  what  a  joy  he  has  always  been!  And  how  thankful  I  am  that  I  have 
not  wasted  a  single  moment  of  in\"  lo\e  in  the  disappointment  manv  people  thought 
I  should  have  felt  in  the  arri\al  of  my  third  boy.  Perhaps  that  was  the  secret  of  our 
palship,  a  reciprocation  for  the  fierce  loyalt\'  and  extra  tender  lo\e  I  had  shown  at  his 
birth.  After  all,  we  usualh'  get  out  of  anything  the  sum  total  of  what  we  put  into 
it.     In  this  case  the  bread  I  had  cast  on  the  water  had  returned  as  cake. 
The  time  is  here  for  horizons  beyond  the  bounds  of  irrigation  ditches,  and  I'll 
be  watching  for  the  same  swing  of  his  shoulders,  the  same  determined  stride.  And  as 
my  heart  swells  with  pride  at  each  new  accomplishment,  I  know  I'll  think  of  his  first 
world  he  conquered,  the  world  of  irrigation  diiches,  with  the  aid  of  two  blue  working 
gloves  and  a  Httle  shovel  with  a  red  handle. 
Viyind  QJingers 
Grace  Barker  Wiison 
The  shutters  all  are  fastened  tight. 
My  house,  my  hearth  are  weather-proof; 
But  still  I  hear  throughout  the  night 
Wind  fingers  tapping  on  my  roof. 
Page  587
