[Vol41 | September 1954 | Sequence: 41 | Category: Lesson | Title: Literature | Author: Jacobs]
[Literature; Dante Gabriel and Christina Rossetti Briant S. Jacobs]
Jacobs (Textbook: The Literature of England, I, Woods, Watt, Anderson, pp. 748-760; 783-797) For Tuesday, December 21, 1954 Objective: To understand the nature of the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood's reaction to Victorianism, and to enjoy the poetic art of the Rossettis. THE LIVES of Thomas Carlyle, John Ruskin, and Dante Gabriel eat largely overlapped and in these three we see some similarity in style and belief, and many differences. Carlyle's torch of social-political reform burned even brighter when he passed it on to Ruskin, his rightful heir. In turn, Ruskin. Lit anew the torch of art and beauty which, when passed on to Rossetti, flared with greater brilliance than that of any other mid-century Victorian. But in Rossetti's hands the Carlyle-Ruskin torch of social-political reform became burned out. Dante and his circle believed that poetry and art should be natural, warm, beautiful and mysterious — flaming alive with details and joy of simple, everyday living. Rossetti, the Italian Rossetti was an Italian born in England who never subdued his Mediterranean, fiery nature to northern bleakness. He never visited Italy, the home of his parents. Yet his first and life-long love was medieval Italy. Dante Alighieri (1265-1321), the greatest of Italian poets, for whom he was named, was so well known and so deeply loved by Rossetti's parents that in their London home he was a "sacred and benign, though mysteriously invisible visit- " OB. From his early promise of genius (he wrote a drama at the age of four, and did myriad childhood drawings) young Rossetti acknowledged the immortal Dante as the great influence on his imagination. While an art student in his tcens at the Royal Academy, he translated Dante's poetry into English, and also discovered the poetry of Keats, Browning, and Blake, but his love of the medieval temperament and subject-matter still dominated, though it absorbed, all these other literary influences. Rossetti's father was an Italian whose love of liberty so overpowered all his other loyalties that he left his native land rather than be de- 632 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1954 DANTE Self-Portrait, GABRIEL ROSSETTI 1855 nied his liberty by kings and popes. Yet, strangely enough, though his hatred for Catholicism approached fierceness, his greatest love was the medieval Catholic, Dante. The Young Art Student While the boy Dante Rossetti had always known and loved poetry, he considered himself primarily a painter, and studied art at the Royal Academy. "If any man has any poetry in him he should paint it," he once said. Dante himself did precisely this. The poems which he wrote to illustrate paintings are word-pictures. We feel in his poems warm colors, natural, minute detail, sharp, beautiful images, strong symbols, and a unified, melodious tone throughout. The young painter-poet found much to criticize in contemporary Victorian art and literature. Painters of the day, he felt, worshiped a colorless, dull traditionalism, while poets and painters alike were gloomy, choosing subjects which they were expected to treat, and writing in a plodding, artificial manner. It is not surprising, then, to find young Rossetti, with his great talent, keen intellect, and dynamic personality, forming a new society of artisis with himself as a nucleus of the group. Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood The Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood was formed in 1849 with three members. Within a year it included seven artists, poets, and sculptors who believed that the only way for English art to save itself was to return to the subjects and_ techniques of those Italian artists who lived before Raphael (1483-1520) and painted only subjects that appealed to their hearts. The "P. R. B." strove, with almost religious fervor, to catch in their paintings the deep, sweet truths of everyday reality. No one could be more sincere than they, but their sincerity was artistic rather than religious; sometimes their work was affected and naive. From Keats, they brought a sensuous richness; from Browning they brought an intellectual intensity. It was by combining both these that they made their greatest contribution to English poetry: the use of symbolism. Rossetti's Poems In Rossetti's most famous poem, "The Blessed Damozel" (text, pp. 784-786), we find the best illustration of Pre-Raphaelite principles: We must protest against the intellectual emptiness of our so-called painters.. It is for us to bring dignity and sincerity back to art; for us to strip art of conventionality and go to Nature. LESSON DEPARTMENT We must be sincere in our invention, truthful in our representation. The Damozel is not only an earthly woman, she is also the intellectual, spiritualized symbol of woman's divine, mystical beauty, conceived in much the same sense as Dante Alighieri had contemplated his Beatrice. Rossetti's Damozel is dignified and exalted, and described accurately, but in warm detail as a beautiful woman should be. Surely for Rossetti nothing could be more true than "The Blessed Damozel," unless it be the living model from whom the poem was drawn: Elizabeth Siddall, who became his wife. The texture of the poem is serene and controlled. While the imagery is lovely, even luxurious, it is never allowed to become excessive.. Her eyes were deeper than the depth Of waters stilled at even; She had three lilies in her hand, And the stars in her hair were s@yen. Her hair that lay along her back Was yellow like ripe com. Her voice was like the voice the stars Had when they sang together. Each attribute adds to the total image, and is immediately available to the natural senses, yet none is allowed to run riot. And still she bowed herself and stooped Out of the circling charm; Until her bosom must have made The bar she leaned on warm, And the lilies lay as if asleep Along her bended arm. For having written this stanza Rossetti became the subject of one of the most vicious literary attacks in the history of English, literature. Robert Buchanan, a critic, il-used 633 him in a piece entitled "The Fleshly School of Poetry," claiming that Rossetti was obscene and lewd. 'To most modern readers his damozel is not spiritual only, true enough, but she is, for most, a symbol of beautiful womanhood and feminine love at its best. The damozel dreams of her ideal lover with whom she asks to be united in heaven before God, even as they were upon earth. There will I ask of Christ the Lord Thus much for him and me— Only to live as once on earth With Love, only to be, As then awhile, forever now, Together, I and he. Truly one of the loveliest of poems, "The Blessed Damozel"' eternally symbolizes the blending of earthly and heavenly love. No wonder it has known universal popularity for more than one hundred years. Rossettis Other Poems In "My Sister's Sleep" (text, pp. 786-787) Rossetti caught the mystery of death and the unknown realities of life. Several sonnets from "The House of Life" (pp. 794- 797) are excellent: "Silent Noon," "Autumn Idleness," and "Lost Days" are skillfully, and exquisitely done. "Autumn Song" (page 794) is another choice selection. Elizabeth Siddall In 1850, Rossetti first saw Elizabeth Siddall, this most beautiful of women. "I knew from the moment I met her my destiny was defined," he wrote. Most delicately featured, graceful in walk and body, with flaming red hair, she was the favorite model, not only of Rossetti but of the other P. R. B. Artists. Not 634 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1954 long after they met they were engaged, but they were not married until 1860, ten years later, because of lack of money. Mrs. Rossetti was an invalid; her husband had no illusions as to the sadness in store for him; but, in 1862, when she died, Rossetti was almost crazy with remorse for the pains he believed his Bohemian life had caused her. He insisted on having the manuscript of his unpublished poems placed in her coffin. ('These were recovered seven years later.) When Buchanan attacked his poetry, he felt it to be retribution for the neglect of his beautiful wife. Soon he was suffering frequent delusions of persecution, and took to drugs and drink to cloud over his feelings of self-torture, but to no avail, though in these later years he found some pleasure in poetic creation. 'The year before his death, in 1882, he published two volumes of poetry which gave him some comfort, but he died largely as he had lived in later years, an unhappy man. Christina Rossetti (1830-1894) The youngest of the four Rossetti children, Christina worshiped her brother Dante Gabriel, and when her own strong desires for love and earthly happiness were thwarted, she found much comfort in the exciting conversations she had with the literary and artistic personages who came to their home. Her real and lasting solace, however, was in the Anglican church. Her religious lyrics are some of the purest in the language. 'Throughout her life she was torn between opposing desires for earthly love of man and _ heavenly love of God. And in much of her poetry her purpose seems to be to conceal, rather than to reveal, her constant, inward struggle. Christina led a life of self-sacrifice. She refused two offers of marriage because of religious differences. The first of these caused her real grief as some of her poems show. After devoting much of her life to the care of her mother and two elderly aunts, she herself became almost an invalid for the last twentyfive years of her life. Throughout her secluded _ life Christina wrote more than goo E: nglish poems and sixty Italian ones. While her impassioned, romantic self constantly found outlet in poems about human love, perhaps her most constant theme is the peace to be found in death. She wrote many religious poems; devoutly she yearned to receive a spiritual visitation, but she never did, and was too honest to attempt to counterfeit what she had actually never possessed. Christina's Poetry Although never a member of the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood, Christina knew and absorbed their ideas; she, in turn, was highly respected by them. Her close-knit poems -achieve a simplicity and charm surpassing any written by the members of the Brotherhood: My life is like a faded leaf, My harvest dwindled to a husk; Truly my life is void and brief And tedious yn the barren dusk; My life is like a frozen thing, No bud nor greenness can I see; Yet rise it shall—the sap of Spring; O Jesus, rise in me. "A Better Resurrection,' (page 751). LESSON DEPARTMENT I 635. EN ORE INE EE PO LEE LEC TE CHRISTINA ROSSETTI AND HER MOTHER From a Crayon Drawing by Dante Gabriel Rossetti, 1877 Herein are no waste strokes. 'The tone is one; the imagery is direct and clean. Beneath both this stanza and most of her poetry runs a taut suffering not to be expressed directly, an undertone found everywhere save in her delightful nonsense thymes (see page 759). The following is not in our text: The Lowest Place Give me the lowest place: not that I dare Ask for that lowest place, but 'Thou hast died That I might live and share Thy glory by Thy side. Give me the lowest place: or if for me That lowest place too high, make one more low Where I may sit and see My God and love Thee so. Here is the strength that blends from devotion, humility, and love, for many the three great virtues, and most rare in humankind. After reading this poem we can well hear her say, as she actually did, "I cannot possibly use the word happy without meaning something beyond this present life." Christina wrote three types of poetry: whimsical, religious, and eerie. The first two are acknowledged above; her "Goblin Market" exemplifies the latter (see text pp. 753-759). On the surface a fantasy, and containing some _ playfulness, filled with lush images and great verbal and technical dexterity, this poem has that fresh spontaneity which, according to her brother, William, characterized her entire creative process: according to him she never labored over a line. But, in addition, this poem is sinister and horrible; the goblins are evil and monstrous, despite the loveliness of the fruits which they peddle to innocent youth who would fall into their cunning trap. Fundamen- 636 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1954 tally the poem is a symbolic struggle between Christina's desire for love, and yet her fear of it. But she also wrote happier poems, works which reveal her maturity and resigned balance in the face of her life's conflicts. Majestic, yet restrained, rich both in inner power and eternal hope is her "Uphill," (page 752) one of her best poems, and on the same high level as almost all her work—so high that some would place her above Mrs. Browning as the greatest of English woman poets. Be that as it may, let us leave her remembering some of her happier work. She loved nobly and fully throughout her life both man and God. She loved words and beauty and joy as well. Should you doubt these assertions, live with her for a moment in her lovely: A Birthday My heart is like a singing bird Whose nest is in a watered shoot; My heart is like an apple-tree Whose boughs are bent with thickest fruit; My heart is like a rainbow shell That paddles in a halcyon sea; My heart is gladder than all these Because my love is come to me. Raise me a dais of silk and down Hang it with vair and purple dyes; Carve it in doves and pomegranates, And peacocks with a hundred eyes; Work it in gold and silver grapes, In leaves and silver fleurs-de-lys; Because the birthday of my life Is come, my love is come to me. Note to Class Leaders: A few of the poems of the Rossettis have been set to music. One might be used as a song or in records. Questions on the Lesson 1. Discuss Dante Alighieri as an influence on Rossetti. 2. Discuss Rossetti as a poet-painter. 3. Why did Rossetti organize the PreRaphaelite Brotherhood? What did it believe? 4. How did Christina differ from her brother: in her life? In her beliefs? In her poetry? 5- How does the philosophy of these writers compare with our belief concerning life after death? Eu, Se ieaco-— ihe Constitution of the United States No lesson is planned for December in this department, due to the holiday season. >< &xaltation Lydia Bennett Egbert Oh, what could be sweeter Than one little lass, I Unless it were six in a row? From God's own selection, And each is perfection— They're mine—and I should know. Schoolboy Eva Willes Wangsgaard He tries to read imprisoned words With eyes still set to gauge The message left by winging birds Across the sky's blue page. He tries to fit the curbing desk, But still his back recalls The feel of sun and waves—how good!— With only sky for walls. He tries to hold his shuffling feet, But they rebel from leather Confining muscles brown and fleet That cry for summer weather, For dusty roads and pebbled creeks, For grassy hills to climb, And scouting hikes on mountain peaks— But all he needs is time. When icy needles sharpen wind And earth is winter-pearled, He'll take the path of books and find A fascinating world. Each Year Ff Vow Bernice T. Clayton Pale gold is late September's sun, The wind is edged with chill And I, like other vagabonds, Would climb the highest hill To watch the golden autumn spread For all the world to view; Pd snatch enough of beauty now To last the winter through. Although my heart's a vagabond And cries to have its way, { know I am a farmer's wife And I must "can" today. I'll capture autumn's pungent fruits In jams and jellies, too, Imprison them in cry stal j jars To last the winter through. And when they're spread on fresh hot bread Some snowy winter day, To still my restless heart I'll vow— "Next year, you'll have your way.' ORGAN BOOKS for Ward Organists _ At the Console—Felton.._ -1.50 _ Chancel Echoes—Felton 1.50 _ Devotional Organ Album— I la ee2.50 _ Organ Voluntaries—Vols. 1 and 2—Schreiner _ ea. 3.50. Organ Melodies—Landon 1.50 _ Twenty-five Pieces for Small Organ—Schreiner 2.50. The Organist—Orem -.2.75. Sacred Hour at the Organ— Ly a2.00 — Music Sent on Approval — Use this advertisement as your order blank 45-47 South Main Salt Lake City 1, Utah \ 1 I 1 Please send the music indicated above.! {] Money Enclosed t i] \ { I I l I! CL] On Approval [] Charge i; i I t \ I I i} NOM. Oooioeeececceceeececcececeeeeccesseccccesssccccsnssececaneseceeaeee! AddresSS 2.2.2.2 eceeecesenseseeneeceeeeeeees I City & State 2. Cece ceeeeeeee I eS oe SS = SS eee ee a a — ee ee a a FIRST OF ALL — RELIABILITY 45-47 SOUTH al le WwW, Page 637 MAIN STREET SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH Sith Anise \ An Old-Fashioned Hor (( for Modern Cookery Elizabeth Williamson jp MERE belongs to the parsley family. It is a very old herb originating in the Far East. It was mentioned in the Bible, "... For ye pay tithes of mint and anise and cummin..."' (Matthew 23:23). The herb is a pretty annual, with white (often yellow) clusters of tiny flowers, growing two feet high, It should be planted after danger of frost is past. Use As a Medicine: The Romans used the seeds of anise as an aid to digestion; the Greeks thought anise cured headaches, During medieval times anise was used as a horse medicine, Use in Cookery: In cookery, anise seeds are used in a great many ways. The most well known, of course, is as a flavoring for cookies. (See recipe.) 'The seeds are used in breads, cakes, — stews, soups, cottage cheese, cream, applesauce, and salads. Concentrated oil of anise is used to flavor punch and fruit-juice beverages, RecreE FOR ANISE SEED COOKIES Mix: % c. Butter or other shortening and I c. Sugar. Add: 4 egg yolks and 1% c. Enriched flour, sifted with 2 tsp. Baking powder; Y, tsp. Salt; 1 tsp. Anise seed; I tsp. Vanilla. Roll out dough on floured board. Cut in diamond or square shapes, or, if you have a springerle mold, this is the original way in which the cookies were made. Brush with beaten egg yolk and bake at 250° for fifteen minutes. Page 638 At L. D. S. You get Instructors give you personal attention and you learn faster when you attend L. D. S. You'll be able to earn more in a better job. Fall Quarter begins September 7 You can register right now. New classes in both Day and Evening School. When you are qualified, outstanding placement service assures you of the finest employment. Write or call in person school. LDS 70 North Main = Salt Lake City at your Church # Business College A INDIVIDUAL ATTENTION BUSINESS COLLEGE of Brigham Young University VIDA FOX CLAWSON qdvisedStart saving your money now with a personal savings account for that longawaited tour to Europe next year.

Send your name in right now for your complete itinerary of this wonderful European fOur with VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 East South Temple SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH Phone: 4-2017 Better Light Means © Better Sight Be Modern Live Electrically UTAH POWER & LIGHT