	SOMETHING ABOUT HOLIDAYS.

	Little children always expect something
new and pleasant at Christmas time. I rec-
ollect perfectly when I was a little girl how
I used to tease my mother and big sisters
and everybody else, even grandpa, to tell
me stories and sing me songs about fai-
ries and all sorts of funny things, including
Santa Claus and his wonderful maneuver-
ing. I always like to interest myself in the
children. I know that the time we bestow
upon them is not wasted time, if we are in-
culcating in their young and tender minds
such germs as shall expand and grow into
principles of truth, and knowledge of right
and wrong. Mothers do not grudge the
time you bestow in preparing surprises for
the little folks. How beautifully nature has
ornamented the city for the advent of our
yearly holiday. Can any lover of the pic-
turesque fail to admire the tasteful and
graceful ornamenting of the trees, shrub-
bery, and crystal glass? All these furnish the
most delightful winter landscape in the val-
ley, and looking afar to the tops of the ma-
jestic mountains, how sublimely grand their
hoary tops tower above us like the "ever-
lasting hills." It seems as though the king
and queen of fairyland had been decorating
the city and all its surroundings for the me-
morial of the birth of the blessed Redeem-
er, leaving only the work of preparing our
own dwellings and a sanctuary in our hearts
fit to cherish His love and His life. If we
would imitate Him whose birth we Christ-
mas-day commemorate, we must be full of
charity and loving kindness, doing good
deeds, be they in ever so simple a way.
	Let no frowns be upon the little faces,
but smiles and joyous words, songs full of 
praise and rejoicing for all the manifold
blessings given us here. Cheer every one
around you with the gladness of your happy
childhood; if yon have not the very gift
you longed for, be grateful for that which
you have, and think how many little chil-
dren there are in the world who would be
glad to have even a comfortable home and
warm fireside, and if you know any who
are not as well provided for as you are,
any little orphans, or lonely; sorrowful ones,
let it be your first errand to share with
them your own gifts, and see if it does not
prove the truth of the Savior's words, "It
is more blessed to give than to receive."
When I was a little girl we used to deco-
rate our homes with evergreens and all the
varieties of scarlet berries, which abound
profusely in the New England woods, but
in this new country we have not yet all

[Column 2]
the varieties of winter vines and shrubs,
but all in good time; we have many things
we can beautify our homes with, and every
year prosperity increases in these vaileys,
and if we can teach our little children to
be grateful to the Giver of all blessings the
time will come when no good thing will be
withheld. The city in its frosty adorning
reminds us of the land of enchantment; and
is most peculiarly adaptable to the season of
holiday enjoyment.
	There are many pleasant games for indoors
suitable for the children which we hope
they will appreciate with merry laughter,
glad voices and happy hearts. Think of all
your sweetest songs to sing on the anniver-
sary of that blessed morning when Jesus
was born in Bethlehem, and let the merry
Christmas welcome spring from the depths
of your joyous hearts, to usher in the first
glad morning of the winter holidays. Do
not let one frown on your face darken the
light of your home, but laugh, and shout, and
sing merrily. And do not forget the poor,
nor the sick, nor even the dumb animals,
feed and pet them—your dogs and cats, or
your little canaries, and throw out plenty
of crumbs for the little snowbirds, and love
every creature God has made, for He pro-
nounced them all good. Remember "A
Merry Christmas" to all, and if you like to
hear from me, you shall have another letter
for the glad New Year.
	Perhaps some of my little readers who
are very fond of humorous and funny things,
will think my style too dull and tame for
such a jolly time of year, but I will tell
them that while I was hurriedly jotting
these few items, I was busy performing an-
other part in a drama, so new that even the
import of it is scarcely discernible to those
who have been chosen to take the most
prominent parts. Shall I tell my young
friends that one of the good sisters, who la-
bors for Zion, and myself were looking after
the hauling and storing away of grain, and
while we waited around the platform and
walked up and down, back and forth, to at-
tend to that business, I was writing this ar-
ticle, so you see while I was writing for you
little folks; I was laying up grain in case of
future emergency, lest any dear little ones
like you should ever suffer for bread.
	Hang up your stockings and see what
"Santa Claus" will bring this Centennial
Christmas; of course he is wild with delight
like all the great people, and he will show
it by his extravagance, else he would not
be a fair specimen of the type of his class—
the fun-loving, holiday-making, alms-giv-
ing, jolly-eating, precious good fellows, who
shower down their treasures through the
chimney, or jump in through the cracks and
crevices as soon as every-body sleeps.
							AUNT EM.
	S. L. City, Dec. 13, 1876.


