	NOTES FROM A CORRESPONDENT.

	You asked me in your last, to give you all
the political information I could. Now the
political matters of this nation are one stupend-
ous fraud from beginning to end; but as this
does not preclude the possibility of telling the
truth about it, I will endeavor to respond to
the requirement as far as my natural abil-
ities will permit. But, to come to the point,
there is one thing which has come under my
notice while here, whether it will bear a polit-
ical construction or not I leave you to judge.
One thing certain though, political and legis-
lative tyranny is the cause. The matter to
which I allude is the hard times now so preva-
lent throughout the country, and which, poor
people are deluded into the belief will change.
Aunt Em, the "good time coming" to this na-
tion as a body, is a myth and delusion which
the rich and proud are in the habit of using to
beguile the minds of the poor and hard-work-
ing classes while they bind their oppressive
chains the tighter.
	The state of affairs in this region, at the
present time is the state of affairs throughout
the United States. Corruption and tyranny
are the characteristics of those who are in
power, poverty and misery those of the work-
ing classes.
	The branches of industry, the more remuner-
ative ones, are in the hands of, and con-
trolled by a few rich men who beside this are
the members of the legislature; and they in-
stead of working for the good of the people at
large are banded together for self and use the
power placed in their hands, for the purpose of
robbing the poor and enriching themselves.
It might be said that the whole state itself,

[Column 2]
is owned by these few; for not only can
they control the capital of the country, but
even the lives liberties and consciences of her
citizens.
	As an instance. Among the branches of in-
dustry here, coal mining is the most im-
portant; especially in the place where I now
am is this the case, and the companies who
work the mines also own or control the rail-
roads.
	In the adjoining large cities, large store
houses are built and constantly supplied with
coal, as the demand increases or diminishes.
While the demand is equal to the supply all
goes well, the rich man pockets his dividend,
and the poor miner can support his family.
But should the state of the market change,
and the coal on hand begin to accumulate
while the owners dividend decreases corres-
pondingly, the order is given, the owners shut
down, discharge their hands who depend on
the employment for their daily bread, and the
coal houses and yards, or rather the superin-
tendents advance their prices till they pay the
same dividend, 10 per cent. for coal is always
in demand to some degree; thus you see,
while the rich man loses nothing by the
change, the poor man is in danger of starva-
cion. And not only this, but when they can-
not keep their own increase up to the estab-
lished line, they lower the wages of their em-
ployees, or let them lay idle half the time.
All this time provisions are as high as ever,
wages may lower, but provisions are the same
or higher. And the worst is this, that it is the
poor man's fault. They dare not vote for other
men than those who employ them, they would
be discharged, and thus this system of coer-
tion is the means of placing these tyrants in
power, while the laboring classes, not being
united, forge the very chains they are groan-
ing under. If the superintendent of a mine
votes for Hayes and Wheeler, or vice versa,
his employees dare not do otherwise; their
bread and butter are at stake and they submit
to having their liberties stripped from them,
their consciences violated by being obliged to
uphold men whom they fear and despise, and
their rights trampled on by the laws of a coun-
try which boasts of freedom and equal rights
to all.
	Who can view this picture without disgust-
Does it not foreshadow something terrible?
We can but come to this conclusion, the hand
of Almighty God is on this nation, and the
day of their destruction, which has been pre-
dicted by the holy prophets is close at hand.
They are nearly ripe in iniquity, and the
wrath of the Almighty is but staid, in mercy,
to give them a chance to repent.
	Woe betide those who harden their hearts
against the truth, for the edict has gone forth
and the Lord has spoken.
	Good honest men as rulers make "good
times." This country cannot boast of either
at this time.


