				WE FALL.

	If this saying, so oft repeated and so often
verified in many instances which come under
general observation, is applicable to the condi-
tion of the government of the United States at
the present time, then surely it is bound to
fall. It is apparently so equally divided that
the majority cannot be determined upon with-
out introducing some new experimental meas-
ures. Experiments in many cases are in-
jurious and injudicious. In testing govern-
ments, it seems to us they would be peculiarly
so. A government that cannot be maintained
in an emergency in and of itself will scarcely
be improved by new measures.
	The President's Message seems most indiffer-
ently and unsatisfactorily worded, and the re-
ports from different sources, though conflicting,
still lead to one strong conclusion in the minds
of the people, that is, that this stupendous
fabric, the glorious constitution, is about to be
crushed in the great collision of the two politi-
cal parties. Telegrams say South Carolina has
two houses and two governors. Is the United
States to have two houses and two Presidents?
If they could only look consistently at the
final result of such immoderate language as
they are using towards each other, they could
see how it would stir up strife, and strife wag-
eth war.
	"The fathers have eaten sour grapes and the
children's teeth are set on edge;" this applies
admirably to the present national condition;
they have gone on corrupting public offices,
trespassing upon the peoples rights, commit-
ting governmental frauds, until it is no longer
bearable, and each party wants to implicate
the other, and as in thousands of other cases so
in this, one story is good till the other is told,
and when you hear both sides you wonder how
Congress and the House of Representatives
have sustained their position at all on such
hypocritical and unsubstantial BASING. In
contemplation of the present and future it be-
hooves the Latter-day Saints to look well to
themselves, and put their trust in the arm
that is powerful to save, and if in any possible
way they can avoid being party to any of the
schemes for ruining and overthrowing the
government, then are they favored of the Lord,
for surely the Lord has said judgments will
come, but wo unto him by whom they come.
"Let him laugh who wins," the saints can af-
ford to wait, and in the intervals of peace and
plenty prepare wisely for the day of trouble
and scarcity. Seek diligently unto the Lord
to be taught in His ways lest any be led astray
and partake of the plagues and scourges pro-
nounced upon the ungodly.
		[handwritten] E. B. Wells.


