		MENT ASSOCIATIONS.

	In the first place we never realized our
positions or mission on the earth until these
institutions were brought forth by the in-
spiration of heaven. Can we imagine what
would have been the condition of the
Daughters of Zion to-day had not the Lord
in His mercy conferred this blessing upon
on us. It certainly could not have been as
favorable as it is. Many can look back to
their first associations in these societies as
to the dawning of a new and happier life,


because of having become acquainted with
their heavenly Father, and the principles
of the holy gospel which bringeth joy and
and peace that the world can neither give
nor take away. A continual growth in the
things of God can be observed in those who
have been faithful to their duties in these
societies from the first. They have learned
to govern self, and have to a great degree
gained power over the evil propensities of
their nature, and temptations of daily life,
have learned to seek the good of their fel-
low creatures, and have proven that their
greatest happiness consists in ministering
to the comforts of others. We have learn-
ed that heaven must be begun at home, that
if we ever truly enjoy a heaven, we must
exert all our powers to assist in making it
ourselves, and help establish the principles
of truth and righteousness upon the earth,
that there may be a people prepared for the
second coming of the Lord and Savior
when He comes to take vengeance upon
the wicked and all who know him not.
We can also comprehend something o[-]
that charity of which Paul speaks, "which
suffereth long and is kind, thinketh no evil,
is not easily provoked, hopeth all things,
endureth all things," to make the allowance
for our fellowbeings that we desire they
and the Lord should make for us; consid-
ering that when we have striven to our ut-
most we are yet unprofitable servants. We
are taught to keep the Spirit of God
continually with us, to purify our every
thought and feeling, that we may have
claim upon the blessings of the Lord. In
fine, the instructions we receive include
everything that is pure, noble and exalting,
and are calculated to make those who ac-
cept them and carry them out in their lives
great and mighty women in the kingdom
of God, and finally exalt them in His pres-
ence. Then should we not be grateful for
this boon? Yes, we should give thanks daily
to our Father, and prove our appreciation
of this blessing by being faithful to all the
covenants we have made, carrying out in
our lives every commandment that is given
through the servants of God, being willing
that ourselves and all we possess shall be
used for the [-]urtherance of His righteous
purposes, "For what doth it profit a man if
a gift is bestowed upon him and he receiv-
eth not the gift, Behold he rejoiceth not in
that which is given him, neither rejoiceth
in Him who is the Giver of the gift." [Doc-
trine and Covenants, p. 99.] Dear sisters,
let us receive and rejoice in the opportuni-
ties given us through the Retrenchment
Associations, which will, if improved, bring
u[-] knowledge and happiness both here and
hereafter.
							MARY A. E. [handwritten] [---]
	S. L. City, Oct. 18, 1876.


Spanish Cream.—One half box of gelatine, one
quart of milk, four eggs, beaten separately, one
cup of sugar. Take a small quantity of the milk
to soak the gelatine, put on the back of the stove.
Let the remainder of the milk boil. Mix the
yolks and sugar together and stir quickly into the
scalding milk, let boil about a minute, then take off
and stir in the soaked gelatine, put aside for fif-
teen or twenty minutes, then stir in the whites of
the eggs, by the spoonful, slowly and thoroughly,
and flavor to taste with vanilla. Dip your molds
in cold water and pour in the cream to cool.


Lemon Jelly.—Take one package of gelatine,
add one pint of cold water, juice of six lemons;
let them stand one hour, then add one pint of boil-
ing water, two lbs. of white crust sugar, strain and
cool.


