HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Sauce for Dressing.—Two eggs, one half cup
of sugar, butter the size of an egg, four table-
spoonfuls of boiling water. Flavor with wine or
brandy.
	English Pudding.—One cup of chopped suet,
one cup of chopped raisins, one cup of molasses,
one cup of sweet milk, five cups of flour, one tea-
spoonful of soda. Steam three hours.
	Celery Slaw.—One-half head of cabbage, the
tender part of one bunch of celery, two hard
boiled eggs, all chopped fine, mix with it two tea-
spoonfuls of sugar, two of mustard, one half tea-
spoonful of salt and pepper. Moisten with vine-
gar. 
	To Cook Celery.—The outside leaf stalks of
celery may be utilized, and a very savory dish
made by cutting them in small pieces, and boiling
in salted water until tender. Then turn off the
water and add milk, butter, and flour enough to
form a thick gravy. Serve hot.—Mrs. Rustic. 
	Horse-Radish Sauce for Roast Beef.—Mix
four table spoonfuls of grated horse-radish with
one teaspoonful of sugar, one teaspoonful of salt,
one-half teaspoonful of pepper, two teaspoonfuls of
made mustard. Mix thoroughly. Then, moisten
with sufficient vinegar to give it the consistency
of cream. Add four tablespoonful of thick
cream. Heat (not boil) it, for hot roast beef, and
for cold meat serve the sauce without heating.
	Piccalilli.—In answer to request of "Young
Housekeeper," I send the following recipe: For
one gallon of sliced, green tomatoes, (salted and
drained) take one quart of cider vinegar, one
pound of sugar, one tablespoonful each of mustard,
cloves, and sweet fennel seed. Place all in a por-
celain kettle over the fire, until the tomatoes are
cooked tender; then drain them out, and boil the
syrup down till just enough remains to cover them,
they do not need sealing. Onions may be added
if liked.—Mc.
	Bread Making.—At night take luke-warm wa-
ter, according to the quantity of bread required,
and stir in flour until it is about right for pan-
cakes, then stir in a tea-cup of lively yeast, cover
it and set in a moderately warm place to rise. In
the morning it will be light. Then mix up hard,
kneading it well. Return the bread to the pan
and let it rise, when light mold it down, repeat-
ing this three times. Then make into loaves and
when sufficiently light, bake carefully. Good
dough may be spoiled in the oven, by too hot or
too slack a fire. The molding-down process may
seem like too much trouble, but it is not in prac-
tice. The addition of some warm milk, when the
bread is mixed up hard, makes it whiter and
more tender, but it also dries up sooner. The
season makes some difference about the trouble of
making bread, as in winter it is harder to keep the
sponge of the right temperature. One of the
best bread makers I know, uses a small tin pail
to mix her sponge in and then hangs the pail
from a wire over the stove, which keeps it warm
and makes the rising speedy. In very cold
weather it is best to mix sponge in the morning,
unless one has a house that keeps moderately
warm through the night.


