EDITOR EXPONENT:

	I take the privilege of conveying a few
lines to you. It seems presumption in me
to assume to write to a paper, especially the
EXPONENT with its sea of intelligence. I
cannot help but notice the growth of the
sisters intellectually, from reading that pa-
per; it does one good to read it, and I re-
flect, who would do without it, were it pos-
sible to be obtained, or who would deny its
privileges? I feel, this morning, to greatly
rejoice, yea! in the spirit of testimony; this
is what compels me to write. I can bear
testimony that we have a man at the head
of this church (even President Young) who
is inspired by the Holy Ghost and is watch-
ing over this church for good, and gives us
line upon line in the due season thereof.
Now the word has come to the sisters from
our living Head to save the grain, I know
for myself he is dictated by the spirit of
God. He has called upon the Elders for
many years to lay up grain. Have they
obeyed this counsel? They can answer for
themselves I shall not condemn them.
Then sisters, mothers in Israel shall we look
up on this thing lightly and count it but a
puff of wind? O no! we will go at this
work with all our might, mind and strength,
praying God to prosper our labors. There
is a grand speculation in this, which will re-
sult in blessings upon us, our children, and
friends, even those that may be afar off.
We remember our respected Brother Kim-
ball, he said the time would come when a
barrel of flour would be worth a barrel of
gold, and I believe it, and many other
prophecies made by him.
	Now sisters, I believe that the time is
nigh at hand, when the Lord will visit His
people, some in blessings, some in scourg-
ings; those who have been wise virgins
and have oil in their lamps will be prepared
to meet the emergencies. Now is the time
to arouse ourselves and awake and trim our
lamps and keep them burning. There is
plenty of oil within our reach, it is flowing
through the land in abundance. If we are
the children of Joseph through the loins of
Ephraim, shan't we then, like our father do
the same work? He laid up grain to save
all Egypt and his father's house.
	The sisters of Selina have already com-
menced the work, and our Bishop has very
kindly offered us a place in the United Or-
der Store-house to store away our grain;
which we have gladly accepted. I see no
need of being discouraged in this matter.
If we are but the despised women of Utah,
we will yet show to the world that we live
in the Gospel light, and will protect our-


selves and not be caught unawares. Where
do the queens and great women of the
world receive revelation from, to prepare
them for the calamities that are coming up-
on the earth?
	Sisters let us be humble, prayerful and
thankful for the things we do enjoy; for
prophets and apostles, and for the privilege
given us, to lay up grain for our temporal
salvation.
		I remain your loving sister,
