EDITORS EXPONENT:

	I am hardly vain enough to think that
any one else but myself, and perhaps your-
self has noticed how long it is since any of
my scribbles have found their way to your
valuable little paper. But I should most
assuredly have written long enough ago
had not the destroying angel cast his dark
shadow across our happy threshold. But
thank God, through the administrations of
the priesthood, his hand has been lessened
and we are almost free from his presence.
Every one of [--] our little family has felt
his power, and my babe is still quite weak
and low. Excuse me for taking up so much
space in talking of my own affairs; but I felt
it my duty to explain my seeming neglect
of promise.
	In accordance with the promise in my
last letter I will endeavor to give your read-
ers a faint idea of the grandeur and beauty
of the greatest curiosity in U. T., viz., the
Temple in this city.
	Perhaps it would be well to give some
idea of St. George, its surrounding, and its
principal buildings. We will fancy that in
traveling here, we reach Washington about
5 o'clock p. m., where we stop a few mo-
ments to water the thirsty animals and take
a look at the Factory. Then onward we
proceed, riding due west; passing through
Middletown, going over rough, rocky dug-
ways, and sandy bottoms, until about half a
mile of the city; when suddenly wheeling,
we ride directly south for another quarter
of a mile. All this while we have not had
a glimpse of the city, although we have
seen for some moments past the green fields
at the southern end of the valley, with the
Rio Virgin lazily wending its way from
east to west in the center of the fields.

[Column 2]
Thumping over rocks, dragging through
the sand—we see just ahead, a little hill
aronnd which the road winds, then swing
round the little bluff facing directly west
once more, when, Presto! Here you are,
within a few rods of the much talked
of city of St. George. Stop the horses
a moment, and give us time to look at
this beautiful little city; remember we
are at the north-eastern extremity of the
valley, with the settlement directly facing
us.  (In the north is a line of red-sand hills,
terminating at the north-western extremity
of the valley by a picturesque, perpendicu-
lar cliff. There is a pass here, through
which we go to Santa Clara, Pine Valley,
and other adjoining settlements. On the
west is a line of black hills, the duplicate
of which comprises the eastern boundary;
while on the south, the eye is relieved by a
glimpse of blue, old fashioned mountains.
This is quite a small valley, being but two
miles square. The attention is then at-
tracted from these uninteresting hills and
mountains to the fair loveliness of the pure
white Temple, contrasted as it is with the
green foliage of the city, the red sand of
the valley, and the deep blue of the even-
ing sky. One pearly cloud is sailing over-
head, while the evening sun is casting its
farewell beams upon the white dome; we
might fancy, that in the stream of mellow,
golden light, we see angel forms flitting to
and fro from their heavenly dwelling-place,
to this, their Master's House on earth; and
we are almost sure, that, in the calm, still,
evening air, we hear angel voices chanting
praises to Almighty God for His infinite
goodness and mercy.
	We are reminded by the sun dropping
out of sight, behind the black ridge, it is
time to drive into town. We can but no-
tice however, as we pass along, that St.
George is cozily nestled right up against
the red hills, forming the valley boundary
on the north, in fact some houses are creep-
ing up the hills. We are quite tired now,
and fully appreciate the hearty welcome we
are sure to receive from the hospitable
brethren and sisters of this goodly city.
	Next morning, anxious to get a nearer
view of the noble edifice that stirs such
indescribable feelings within the breast.
We are rather surprised to see so substantial
and fine looking buildings "way down in
Dixie." However we spend little time in
speculating on it, but wend our way to the
Temple Block. Riding south on the prin-
cipal street, we pass on the right, the St.
George Hall, Telegraph Office, Co-op Store,
Bakery and Tithing Office; on the corner of
the next block we see the Tabernacle,
which, permit me to say, with the excep-
tion of the Temple, is the finest building
in the Territory. This building together
with the rest of the public buildings in this
little city, are built of red sand-stone and
present a very beautiful appearance. The
tabernacle faces east, and at that end has a
square tower on which rests a tall, graceful
spire; as we look down the street going
west, the sign of one of our old friends,
swinging lazily in the wind, announces that
Dr. A. B. Dunford is following his profess-
ion of Dentistry. On the street looking east,
is the Post Office. Going a little west of
south, there is nothing worthy of special
mention, except perhaps, that the people, as
an almost universal rule, build story and a
half houses, instead of raising them a lit-
tle higher and making them habitable,
which would cost but a trifle more.
	About ten minutes ride finds us on the
open space surrounding the Temple. If we
were charmed with its beauty at night, we
are awed by its grandeur in the day. Un

[Column 3]
der the shadow of its massive walls we feel
a[-] though we are in the presence of some-
thing so holy and sacred that our tongue
represses its utterance. We are incapa-
ble almost of thinking. We can only feel
ourself an atom in the greatness of the
presence that overshadows these walls.
	The main entrance faces east. There are
two, one on each side of the tower. The
steps are made of red sand-stone, each step
being one massive rock. They are wide
and sweeping, and give the building a free,
noble look. The buttresses between each
window, the parapets on top, and the large
tower at the eastern end, add more to the
picturesqueness and grandeur of the build-
ing than can well be imagined. It is built
of red sand stone, (the foundation of black
rock) and is plastered over with a clear
white. It stands on a rising swell in the
center of the valley. The tower is sur-
mounted with an octagon dome. The win-
dows are 12 ft. high on the first floor, above
these are circular windows about 3[-] ft.
square. Still above these are another row
of long windows, the same heighth as the
lower ones, and crowning these, comes an-
other row of circular windows. There are
two main halls 27 ft. high and 99 x 78 ft.
across. On each side of the arching roof
above the main rooms are eight rooms on
each side, 32 rooms in all. The main stair-
ways are in the north-east and south-east
towers and are circular, also several private
stairways connecting the different floors.
There is a cistern under the main tower
which will contain when full, 12,550 gal-
lons of water. There are three square rooms
in the main tower, which are perhaps in-
tended for vestry rooms. The rooms are all
beautifully finished off with plaster of paris
cornices and centre-pieces, (some of the fin-
est work in the western country.) The
whole of the wood work is painted a spot-
less white. The doors in the outer courts,
leading into the separate rooms are chaste
and elegant; no flashy carving, but all fin-
ished off with the nicest skill. Altogether
it has a simple yet grand, quiet but impos-
ing appearance, that is quite in keeping
with the purpose for which it has been de-
signed. Passing out we can but reflect that
it looks like a fair pure bride, almost ready
to receive the crowning presence of her
Lord.
	The feelings that have been awakened in
the heart are too profound for expression;
and we go from the edifice with the holiest
emotions, determined to live a purer, better
life.
	In another letter I will try to give a de-
scription of the famous Johnson Gardens,
and other principal objects of interest here.
	Remembering myself to my friends in
Salt Lake, I will close; ever praying for the
success of the EXPONE[-]T. I am,
			Yours respectfully,
							S. Y. D.


A GENERIC DIFFERENCE.—School girls
out for a walk: 1st schoolgirl—"I am so
tired of walking along by two and two in
this way; it's as bad as the animals that
went into the Ark." 2nd school girl—"It's
worse, for half of them were masculines."
	FOR DOCTORS.—"Massa, can you tell me
de fust ting a doctor does when he goes to
see a sick man?"
	"Why he looks at his tongue, of course."
	"And can a doctor tell what's de matter
wid de man by looking at his tongue?"
	"Of course he can."
	"Den I want a doctor."
	"Are you unwell, sir?"
	"No, but I have got a wagon dat got
someting de matter wid it, and de wagon
is got a tongue.


