			ERARY ASSOCIATION.

	This may seem a peculiar theme for one
of so little experience as myself to com-
ment upon, yet in consideration of my in-
terest upon the subject it is not at all inap-
propriate.
	I find there are many whose minds ought
to be firmly established on this matter, who
waver, and doubt, and query and wonder
and do everything almost, except humble
themselves and ask help from a divine
source; even this it will be said requires
some faith in God to do, and this belief it
will be averred, is not strong enough in the
heart to warrant it. Then there is something
serious the matter; for every intelligent
person is born with inherent principles of
reverence for a Supreme Being, unless they
are heathen who worship idols, or perhaps
in rare instances the children of ungodly
parents.
	In this kingdom we are all taught from our
earliest childhood to believe in God, and it is
something which we should cultivate and
retain after we arrive at years of discretion,
instead of encouraging doubt and uncer-
tainty upon the subject, and arguing to find
out whether we really are believers or not.
	The great end and aim of life (very gen-
erally conceded) is the pursuit of happiness;
the whole world will tell you there is neith-
er perfect rest nor happiness upon this earth
in its present condition.
	Then shall we admit we are pursuing a
phantom which eludes us when seemingly
within our grasp, or shall we so harmonize
ourselves with our individual being and
surroundings as to be able to bear all things
philosophically, looking forward to that hap-
piness in the eternal, which shall more than
compensate us for endurance of trials here.
	The Author of our existence would not
leave His children without a law, when He
has so firmly fixed the laws and order of all
inanimate things, so that they fulfill the
laws of their creation and bring forth in
due season and keep their appointed times.
Judging from nature as we term it, we may
draw this conclusion, that a God who would
so carefully devise and plan the workings
of the most minute specimen of that which
possesses not an immortal gem, would by
His care for that which must exist forever,
devise the most perfect laws by which they
may through their own agency attain the
highest degree of glory and everlasting
happiness. Perhaps you will say I have
taken the ground that there is a God with-
out proving it. I grant you so much, for
there is a testimony of His existence dwell-
ing within me which it shall be my first
duty to retain. This very witness, or faith
which I have in His existence, aids me in
contemplating His purposes, in understand-
ing some little of His laws and the princi-
ples laid down for those to follow, who
would be like unto Him and arrive to that
perfection which should, in my opinion, be
our highest emulation. I can see no beauty,
no happiness, no merit of any sort in unbe-
lief; consequently, to my mind the very
idea tends downward.
	There are so many ills and crosses in life,
so many disappointments, so much that is
disagreeable and unpleasant to be borne,
that one needs all the stimulus of the no-
blest qualities and highest aims to pass
through life unscathed. There are beset-
ments on over hand to draw aside the un-
wary, and tempt them from the paths of
rectitude and honor; and human nature is
weak and prone to err; therefore there is

[Column 2]
need of some strong support and where
does it lie? Can we find balm in Gilead?
Is there perfect trust in any source except
our faith in God? I think not. Death may
snatch from us the nearest and dearest treas-
ures, those in whom we place the most im-
plicit confidence often prove false to us in
our greatest need, our hearts misgive us,
feeling our weakness and insufficiency, and
unless we have faith in God we are liable to
fall at any moment.
	Therefore my friends and companions,
you whose welfare here and hereafter is
dear to me (and I trust, to one another,) let
me entreat you not to allow yourselves to
get into darkness and unbelief, lest in an evil
hour the Holy Spirit which has been given
to all who have obeyed the Gospel, should
be grieved away and you be left to wrestle
with temptations, alone, unaided by Him
who has said "His spirit will not always
strive with man."
	The pathway of duty is the safest road
to happiness, and we owe a duty to our
parents which we can never repay if we
grieve them through unbelief. This should
make us cautious in acccepting any other
principles unless we could feel assured with-
in ourselves that we should through those
principles become capable of doing a great-
er amount of real good.
	I know it is customary to talk of being
led blindly, and having no knowledge for
one's self, but what sound reasoning is there
for the sceptic? Is not that all uncertainty
and doubt? And supposing even one actu-
ally reasons one's self out of the belief in
God what comfort or satisfaction is afforded
by it or what benefit is it to mankind?
	On the other hand the consciousness of
the hope one has in the justice and mercy
of an alwise Father and His constant watch-
care and guidance which will not allow
even a sparrow to fall to the ground with-
out His notice, is always under, all circum-
stances of however painful, or distressing a
nature, a solace and panacea which affords
more real consolation than all other things
without it.
	Too much controversy stupefies us, and
we may be overwhelmed with a confused
jumble of sophisms and truths and be so
perplexed thereby as to distrust everybody,
which would be the most dangerous state of
the human mind. We who live in the
days of Gospel light, whose parents have
sought so faithfully to train us up in the
nurture and and admonition of the Lord,
cannot afford to wander after the doctrines
and theories of men and forsake the Lord
and His ways. Therefore we should seek
to retain the Holy Spirit, the Comforter,
whom Jesus said He would send to guide
us into all truth.
							[-] M.
		[handwritten] Emma Wells
	Salt Lake City, Dec. 6, 1876.


For the EXPONENT.
