				WOMAN.

	How few there are who realize that every
thought, word or deed go to make up their
general appearance and true character, and
leave their inevitable mark upon their face
as well as help clothe the soul in light
which is from God, or darkness which only
comes from a depraved condition of the
heart.
	How few there are that can conceive the 
good or evil that may come from even se-
cret thoughts the influence of which are as
lasting as time, and may be as boundless as
eternity. She that thinks, talks and acts
nobly, she that strives to live up to her

[Column 2]
high privilege, she who is truly what God
made her, a Woman, is one of the greatest
works of the Creator, a blessing to all both
high and low; her influence for good is as
boundless as the sun's light, and her power
is something wonderful. Look at a true
woman as wife, mother, or sister, and say
who or what can bound her influence, or
who can weigh her power, for though she
rules with love, which is God-like, yet her
love is more powerful than the sword or all
the engines of death combined. When in
her presence we feel her hallowed influence,
and though we may but look upon her, we
go away feeling truly blessed that we have
been permitted to receive of that wealth of
loveliness which can only come from a pure
fount, and we in a measure impart to oth-
ers the sweet influence which lingers with
us, blessing those with whom we associate.
Why woman should be called "the weaker
sex" I know not, unless it be her deep and
pure love which gives her the lasting faith
(of which men so frequently take the ad-
vantage) for she being pure thinketh no
evii, until her eyes are opened to see that
she like "Another Eve" has been deceived
by Satan appearing in form of man instead
of a serpent, and when once deceived she is
often left like the vine torn by ruthless
hands, dragged from its lofty place upon the
branches of the towering oak where it has
climbed to bask in the warm sunlight, to
the ground from whence no one cau[-]re-
place it, or even tries to lift it up, and is left
to be trampled under foot and die[---] Thus is
woman when betrayed and left with no one
but God to pity or see that a soul is lost or
saved, and though she lies far beneath the
sphere for which she was made, like the
flower that in being crushed imparts its
rich perfume even under the foot of its de-
stroyer, her soul ofttimes goes out in earnest
prayer in behalf of him who has brought
her low—he whom once she loved as only
woman can love.
	But what is woman to man? To some
she is only a toy to be put aside when tired
of; to others she is a gay butterfly whose
colors they admire, to another she is but an
object or convenience to keep his home in
order and attend to his every care and
want; to some she is a pretty thing as is a
favorite horse or dog, for her sweet face or
form which others admire, he is proud to
say she is his wife, and to the man who can
appreciate her, woman is what vegetation
is to the earth, what the sun is to the flow-
er, what the rose is to the thorny bush,
what the diamond is to the gold in which it
is set, or what the sight is to the eye. She
is what God intended her to be, a part of
his very life, that abundantly enters into all
that is good in him, bearing an impression
for both time and eternity.
	The chords of her pure love twine around
his heart and bring out his noble manhood,
raising his aspirations to things that are
great and good, and when he is about to
faint or fall, she in her rich wealth of good-
ness imparts to him of her strength of soul
by her helping hand, encouraging words,
good counsel, or by but a look from the
love-lit eyes, (which appear to him the win-
dows of heaven) and he is encouraged to
make a greater struggle, strengthened by
the aid of her noble nature, and perchance
attains the goal which may be his salva-
tion.
	A man's name, often goes forth as one of
tne great and honorable men of his age, by
the help given him through woman's influ-
ence; or if he stands among men as does the
giant of the forest among its smaller neigh-
bors, and by storms of adversity is felled to
the ground, [---] like the v[--]e which still


clings to the trunk of the great tree, bud-
ding and putting forth its bright foliage,
making it if possible, more beautiful than
when standing, honors him by placing
around his name the laurels he has won.
	The picture is not too highly colored,
and though all may not be able to attain
greatness here, yet their good works are
none the less important.
	How many there are whose whole life
seems to be composed of beautiful thoughts,
words and deeds; whose souls so expand
with charity that they take  in the whole
world with their love for God and His crea-
tures, forgetful of self are ever able to help
in some way all who are brought within
their godlike influence, until their whole
being is one great song of praise to the
Creator and blessings to their fellow man,
and it may truly be said of such a woman
"a thing of beauty is a joy forever."
	R.
S. L. City, Dec. 5th, 1876.


