OBITUARY.

	The many friends of Sister CAROLINE
AUGUSTA JACKSON, of St. George, will be
pained to hear of her death, which occurred at
half past seven o'clock on the morning of the
7th inst., in that city, of pneumonia.
	Sister Jackson was born at Hampton, N. H,
and was aged 50 years, 4 months, and 23 days.
She embraced the gospel of Jesus Christ at the
age of 17 years, leaving her father's house as
the cost, and in February 1864, embarked upon
the ship Brooklyn, with her husband and in-
fant daughter, arriving in California six
months later, to endure the terrors of war and
famine for many months. Enriched by the
gold discovery she gave liberally to the poor,
and kept for twenty years open house for the
traveling Elders of the Church. She collected
sixty children made orphans by cholera, and
bore their entire expenses for six months,


meanwhile exerting her influence successfully
toward the foundation of the still existing
Protestant Orphan Asylum in San Francisco,
and was one of the first board of managers."
	During Buchanan's administration, Col.
(then), Thomas Kane passed through San Ber-
nardino, Gal., and was searched for by a mob
who divined him and his mission; she render-
ed him such service that he ever after held her
in devoted remembrance, and when, four win-
ters ago he met herself and husband in St.
George, his tears, rather than his words, ex-
pressed his emotions.
	The evening before he left St. George, he
called late to bid her good-bye. She went with
him to the door; the night was dark, windy,
and raining. She gave him her shawl, which
he wrapped around him: Extending his hand,
he said, "this night is like the political horizon.
Stay you in camp, eat roast beef and rest; I
will go in the storm, and stand on picket guard
for you" Good-bye, thrice repeated, and he
was gone into the dark night.
	After her arrival in Utah she settled in St.
George, and was the first Treasurer of the St.
George Relief Society, and afterward appoint-
ed Secretary. She was an agent for the EX-
PONENT in that city.
	Her name had been mentioned as one of the
sisters to labor in that Temple, and she had
extended the offer of a home to certain of the
brethren called to labor in the Temple. Her
last work was the writing of her testimony for
The Woman's Book; after which she went to
the gate with a friend, receiving a cold which
ended her life one week after, passing away in
sleep, and without pain.—COM.


