Education for Family Life
Family Relationships
Lesson 1
The Family Council Plan
We present as our first topic for discussion in the present series of lessons dealing with family relationships, The Family Council Plan, with the hope that some of our members will become sufficiently interested to adopt it as their pattern for family living. All family life is more or less experimental; therefore, every family who has achieved any degree of success has something of value to contribute to our limited knowledge concerning successful family life. So we suggest that after having given the Family Council Plan a trial over a period of several months an attempt be made to evaluate the experiment on the basis of the primary function of the family, which is the building or molding of personality, and make available to other families our findings that they may profit by our experience.
We understand the Family Council Plan to mean that the family as
496 - JULY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
a group shall participate in the solving of family problems, in determining family policies, in sharing family duties and responsibilities, rights and privileges; that each member of the family be given an opportunity to function in the group according to his ability. We shall refer to this type of living as the democratic form of family life.
A marriage that represents a partnership, in the true sense of the word, between a man and a woman who sincerely love each other, is the foundation stone upon which to build a democratic family organization. In such a family the father and mother serve as the accepted leaders, with each child cooperating with the other members of the group so that all are working together toward the realization of a common objective.
A democracy can succeed to the extent that it is composed of people who are trained and who are willing to occupy positions of leadership and responsibility, and who are conscientiously dependable. The family, as the primary social institution, must provide this necessary training for its members so that the nation can depend upon the family as its constant source of supply for adequate leadership. To rear a child in a democratic family environment offers the greatest possibilities for preparing that child to take his place as an active citizen in a democracy. This accomplishment is the responsibility and duty of every family.
Naturally, because of their maturity, experience, and sympathetic understanding, the parents will assume the position of leadership, in which they will have the responsibility of not only encouraging but also of providing opportunity for the development of initiative, of useful participation, and of voluntary cooperation on the part of each child. If such functioning is experienced, the child will cultivate the essential characteristics for life in a democracy. As some of the most important of these characteristics we list the following: The ability to make intelligent choices, resourcefulness, courage, tolerance, a strong sense of justice, a high regard for the proper use of freedom, and the spirit of sportsmanship.
Because the home has lost many of its former functions, because the family tends to do fewer things as a group that call for sharing of duties and services, and because life in the city offers a comparatively limited number of chores to be done around the home, parents must make the most of every opportunity to make use of the services of the child. This means that when the four-year-old girl says, "Mother, I want to help you with the dusting", the mother will not reply, "Oh, you are such a nice little daughter to offer to help Mother, and I know you are a fine little worker, but you run and play and Mother will do the work." Such a reply offers the easiest course of action, but the wiser way would be for the mother to say, "I do need your help, so I shall show you how to dust all the articles that you are tall enough to reach. I shall do the higher ones, and together we can soon have all the dusting finished." This method will take time and patience on the part of the mother, but the value to the child can scarcely be overestimated. To make use of the child builds up self-confidence. Feeling an active part of the family gives him a sense of security; it gives him an opportunity to experience the satisfaction that comes with the realization that he is a contributing member as well as a receiving member of the group. To deny the child the opportunity to share in family activities gives him a feeling of inferiority because he feels useless. Huxley declares the sense of uselessness is the severest shock which the human system can sustain, and that if persistently sustained it results in atrophy of function. Only as the child takes part in the planning of the family's activities and in the solving of the family's problems will he develop the cooperative behavior pattern necessary for good citizenship in a democracy. The Family Council Plan offers this opportunity; it gives to the parents the privilege to suggest and advise without seeming to unjustly override the wishes of the child.
It is impossible to outline in detail a technique for the procedure of the Family Council that would be workable in all families. The most that can be done is to offer some suggestions that have worked out satisfactorily in some families and which may, with little modification and adjustment, prove helpful to others. Before the family adopts the Council method of control there should be a consensus of opinion that such an arrangement is desirable or at least that all members are desirous of giving it a trial. Without the voluntary cooperation of each one the plan cannot work out successfully.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JULY - 497
A definite time should be determined when the entire family group can be together for the purpose of discussing affairs of family living. An hour once a week has proved to be the most effective arrangement for most groups. If the meetings are held less frequently it necessitates longer sessions, which is objectionable. The time selected should be when neither the parents nor the children will be too weary or fatigued to take an active part in the discussions. When a regular time has been decided upon, there should be an earnest agreement that each member shall consider the Council meeting the most important engagement for that hour. Some families have found that meal time is the only time when all members of the family can be present; therefore, they discuss their problems at that time. The serious objection to this method is that unpleasant as well as pleasant subjects must be brought up for discussion. Other groups have found Sunday afternoon to be the most feasible time. In considering the plan for adoption it may appear an almost impossible task to find a suitable hour, but in a surprisingly short time it will be looked forward to as one of the most valuable and interesting of all family routine functions and will require little effort to bring the members together.
Preceding the meeting the parents will have anticipated the more important problems to be discussed. At the discretion of the parents they may invite one of the older children to lead the discussion. Many times a problem of such importance will come up that inspiration is
498 - JULY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
needed in its solution. As the problem is discussed and the need for inspiration felt, the family should unite in prayer. An attitude of mutual respect, expressed through courtesy and politeness in the interaction between husband and wife, between parents and children, and between child and child, should be a feature of every family gathering. Every suggestion or idea offered, even that from the youngest member, should receive due consideration.
We shall sum up a few of the benefits to be derived from the Family Council Meetings as follows:
1. Tends to inhibit the parents from making too many choices for the child. Permits the child to do his own choosing as far as possible and thus develops discriminating tastes.
2. Cultivates a more intimate personal relationship between parents and children. Brings to the attention of the child the whys and wherefores of his parents' actions and decisions.
3. Prepares the child to meet his own problems by training him to think through and discuss problems of adjustment.
4. Builds up an appreciation of the value of family unity and solidarity. Thus it gives the child a sense of security and the satisfaction that comes from the feeling that he belongs and is an active part of the family; that he is loved and respected by other members. He responds with the attitude of loyalty and affection.
5. Sets up a common objective so that the group as a whole is conscious of a definite aim towards which they are exerting their energies.
The democratic mode of family life establishes the home as a laboratory for family living, thus better preparing the parents and the children to live more fully each succeeding day by putting greater emphasis on the human relationship values.
Questions and Problems
1. Discuss the activities in which your family as a group has participated during the last month. Who assumed the responsibility for the making and carrying out of the plans?
2. Do you believe that all family problems should be discussed by children and parents? If not, what are some of the problems that should be settled by parents only? Which ones by children only, if any?
3. Should the use of the automobile by John, the eldest of four children be a problem for John and his parents to solve or for the entire family? Who should decide how many party frocks eighteen-year-old Mary should have?
4. A family consisting of father, mother, two daughters, ages 10 and 14 years respectively, and two sons, ages 12 and 16 years respectively, live in a five-room house. They have a small lawn and a small flower garden, and they own an automobile. How would you have each child share in the tasks and responsibilities of the family life?