?Vera P. Bollschweiler.
MORMON HANDICRAFT Highlights By Nellie O. Parker
"Rhodora, if the sages ask thee why This charm is wasted on the earth and sky Tell them, dear, that if eyes are made for seeing Then beauty is its own excuse for being." ?Emerson.
Eyes certainly get a feast when they behold the lovely guest towels available in our Gift shop. Like Rhodora, these towels are so charming in workmanship and color harmony that just to see them is a delight and according to the poet is excuse enough for their existence. Guest towels have their uses, however, and not least among these is the eloquent declaration they make, as they hang in dainty array, of the hostess' thoughtfulness in providing every detail of hospitality. They speak louder than words of her artistic taste and whisper sweet compliments to the friends whom they serve. The gift of a set of guest towels will bring joy to any woman's heart be she prospective bride or matron.
Forming A Fine Tradition
Brother O. G. Reichman of Bonneville Stake Presidency said this stake would always choose a gift from Mormon Handicraft to express its gratitude to those whom it wishes to honor for faithful, loyal service. We commend this stake for its loyalty to our worthy home industry and also for its discriminating taste in choosing such high quality articles for gifts. We wish to express our grateful appreciation.
News From Over The Counter
Last year a visitor from New Jersey purchased some things from Mormon Handicraft. She was so pleased with her purchases and her friends back home admired them so much that she came again this year. She inquired at the Bureau of Information about the location of the Shop. This time she spent thirty dollars with us. Another patron is one who is furnishing a country home near New York City. She bought seventy dollars worth of quilts and other things. Two women from Chicago made substantial purchases. This is just to mention a few of our customers. Everyone is profuse in their praise of the excellence and beauty of workmanship of the articles. Nowhere can finer things be found they say.
Netted and Crocheted Gloves
For the warm summer days these gloves look so cool and airy and are very flattering to sun-tanned hands for either street wear or dress-up occasions. Come and get a pair of these dainty gloves for your summer wardrobe.
Snoods
Snoods are popular and very convenient. They are so easily adjusted over one's hair and will keep one looking trim and smart for any sort
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JULY - 481
of outing. They can be had in colors to match any costume. Yes, a path is being made to the door of Mormon Handicraft!
Rules for Submitting Handicraft
Mormon Handicraft has now been operating two years. While it is not yet paying expenses, the General Board feels that its growth in the two years warrants the faith they have in the project that it will eventually be of great service to the women and carry its own operating expenses?rent, heat, light, service, insurance, advertising, gift boxes, paper boxes and all the necessary things for any business.
The two years has been the experimental period. Now we feel that it must be definitely put on a business basis, and we call your attention to the following rules which we are asking the ward presidents to make known to all wishing to participate. These rules will be effective from July 1, 1939.
Membership is $1 per year. The membership year is from January 1 to January 1. If the ward takes out a membership, then any active member of that ward is considered a member without paying individual dues. Those who wish to participate from wards where the ward has not taken a membership, and any woman not an active member of Relief Society, must pay individual dues of $1 per year. The membership fee must be paid before articles are accepted.
No articles will be received unless the ward Work and Business leader, or the owner with the approval of the Work and Business leader, writes to the office, submitting a sample of the work and then receives an order from the Shop. Those members who now have articles in the Shop will be contacted by the Shop as the articles sell, and if more can be used the order will be given, provided the membership dues have been paid. This is the only way in which we can control the number of articles and not be overstocked with certain items. We are now much overstocked with lace doilies, pillow slips and bedspreads.
We are asking the cooperation of the ward presidents and Work and Business leaders as well as all members who wish to send articles to the Shop. Our only desire is to be of service to the women, and with your aid we feel confident we can succeed.
"It is usually not talent, but what we do with our native equipment, that counts."