Vol. XXVI JULY, 1939 No. 7
O?EDITORIAL?O
Our Available Wealth
A local newspaper recently published an interesting item titled "Woman Lives In Poverty But Leaves Two Million." While this woman lived as though in destitute circumstances and obtained advantage of low rates intended only for the poor, she was worth nearly $2,000,000. "This was indicated when her safety deposit boxes were opened. Among deeds to valuable properties and deposit slips for money in American and foreign institutions, there was $125,000 in U. S. Government securities for which the coupons had not been clipped since 1935.
"She had $900,000 in foreign securities and 404,358 francs on deposit in Paris; $25,000 on deposit in the Toledo Trust Company, and parcels of valued Toledo land, examination of her papers indicated.
"It was learned that a Toledo attorney, believing she was poor, had charged her only $8 for legal services recently."
We saner mortals not only pity this woman but wonder at her lack of wisdom in not using her available wealth to secure the good things of life. Having at her command sufficient wealth to satisfy any normal desire, to live in ease and comfort among the rich and well born, we are aghast at her lack of judgment in choosing to live a life of poverty among those who were poor. Such a philosophy of life is almost beyond our understanding.
Yet, the worldly wealth to which this woman had access was paltry compared to the wealth offered to the humblest Latter-day Saint. The Lord has said, "The kingdom is yours and the blessings thereof are yours, and the riches of eternity are yours.
"And he who receiveth all things with thankfulness shall be made glorious; and the things of this earth shall be added unto him, even an hundred fold, yea, more.
"For ye are the church of the Firstborn, and he will take you up in a cloud, and appoint every man his portion.
"And he that is a faithful and wise steward shall inherit all things."
462 - JULY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Doctrine and Covenants 78:18-22. The securities listed here are unlike those found in the safety deposit boxes of this unfortunate woman. Here is a promissory note given by the one infallible banker. Here is a promise to pay not $2,000,000 but all the riches of eternity. Are we wisely making use of the wealth available to us, or, like the foolish woman, do we prefer to live impoverished? We clearly see her lack of wisdom and scoff at her. Yet, many Latter-day Saints are neglecting to take advantage of the spiritual wealth freely offered them and are content to live among the spiritually poor. They choose for associates those who are spiritually undernourished. All this woman had to do to benefit from her wealth was to go to the safety deposit box, convert her securities into cash, then buy according to her desires. Latter-day Saints must go to the Scriptures, our safety deposit box of knowledge, then must our knowledge be converted into good acts, and lo! The riches of Eternity are ours.