FROM THE FIELD By Julia A. F, Lund, General Secretary A Pioneer Mother AT THE approach of July our thoughts turn with gratitude and reverence toward our Pioneers. We live again in memory their fearless devotion to duty, their self-sacrifice and their mighty achievements, the benefits of which we today enjoy. Men and women stood side by side in this great era. We are indebted to Nettie Hunt Rencher for the life story of one of these heroic women, Mary Willie Richards, born May 31, 1850, in Salt Lake City. Her father was captain of the "belated" Willie Handcart Company. One of Mary's earliest recollections was seeing her father upon his return, after suffering greatly from cold and hunger. When Mary was nine years old, the family moved to Mendon, Cache Valley, where her mother became first president of Relief Society. Though the school period was limited to a few months during the year, the little pioneer maid learned many things that enabled her to become a competent wife and mother. Among the household arts she learned to be an expert spinner. At the age of seventeen she married the man of her choice, Joseph Hill Richards. When President Brigham Young called the Saints to settle in Arizona, Brother and Sister Richards were among those to respond. The long journey, covering more than three months, from Cache Valley to Arizona was attended by all the dangers and privations incident to pioneering. The story of these Arizona settlements parallels anything recorded in the building of the West. Only unfailing faith in our Heavenly Father and devotion to the highest ideals could have sustained Sister Richards in the marvelous work she did as a wife, mother, church worker and community builder. Her life sketch is the recital of ingenuity, resourcefulness, courage and determination to surmount all obstacles, coupled with sympathy and tenderness. Her devotion to Relief Society is typical, and her work as a midwife is a record of service unsurpassable. Only through the sustaining spirit of the Gospel could she have lived and accomplished so much. In the words of her biographer, "Service is so much a part of her very life, she must continue it, so she turned to temple work. She has worked in the Salt Lake, Logan, St. George and Mesa Temples." On May 31 Sister Richards reached her ninetieth birthday. What a record of achievement, what a heritage she will leave to her family, what an example of Latter-day Saint womanhood she has set.
Church Institute at Laramie
As an organization of mothers, the Relief Society is very much interested in the Church program of education. It is always a great pleasure and a source of pride to hear of the work of the seminaries, colleges and institutes of religion. Today, more than ever before, the need for religious education is apparent. We are indebted to Alice K. Chase whose husband, Daryl Chase, is Director of the Institute at Laramie, Wyoming, for the Laramie Branch News. This little publication not only carries a most interesting report of the Institute and its excellent work but also gives news of the auxiliary organizations and the fine work they are doing. We congratulate the Relief Society upon its interesting message. We thank Sister Chase for the following beautiful tribute to our visiting teachers, written by her mother, Rinta T. Koford:
"In the first letter of St. Paul to the Corinthians, he said, 'Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, and have not love, I am become as sounding brass, or a tinkling cymbal.... And now abideth faith, hope, love, these three; but the greatest of these is love.'
"The truth of Paul's statement was recognized when, on July 28, 1843 there was organized at Nauvoo, Illinois, a group of sixteen women known by the quaint name of the 'Necessity Committee'. Their instructions were that they should 'search out the poor and suffering, call upon the rich for aid, and thus as far as possible, relieve the wants of all'. This simple beginning was the forerunner of an elaborate system of visiting teaching in the Relief Society organization today.
"The responsibilities of those who comprise this group have been increased many times over what they were in the days of the Prophet Joseph. Today they are to carry aid to the suffering and relief to the poor, but are known as teachers?visiting teachers, who come to the door with the same spirit of love advocated by Paul, with the same desire to assist advocated by our early Church leaders, and, in addition, with helpful and educational topics for discussion.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JULY - 477
"They come to the home with the spirit of Jesus?love for their fellowmen.
"One of the most significant monuments in America today is that one erected to the unknown soldier. We know that the strength of our armies, and the strength of our nation lie in the lives of the common soldier and the citizen whose name never appears in the paper. The strength of the Latter-day Saint Church consists primarily in the loyalty and sacrifice of men and women who are rarely known outside their own stake and ward. Without the loyal lay-workers our leaders would have no one to lead, and our Church would cease to be Christ's Church.
"There is no corps of workers in the Latter-day Saint Church today more anxious to serve their fellowmen than the Relief Society visiting teachers. No group follows any more closely the advice of our Lord Jesus in doing good to one another than these Latter-day Saint mothers who give of their time, their goods, and their talents to assist the needy and to offer words of instruction to their brothers and sisters in the Gospel. No group in our Church today exemplifies any more clearly the religion described by the Apostle James when he said, 'Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this, to visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction, and to keep himself unspotted from the world.'
"And so to these teachers we express our sincere gratitude for their untiring efforts and for the peace, love, and instruction which they bring into our homes.
"May they ever follow in the footsteps of the Master Teacher!"
478 - JULY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
RELIEF SOCIETY WARD ORGANIZATION, CHICAGO STAKE
Chicago Stake
The picture is one of the progressive wards of the Chicago Stake, and though young in years the organization has a splendid spirit and has every assurance of a very bright future. From Lois E. Astin, Relief Society Stake President, comes a very fine report of the activities. The teachers' message is in the form of a leaflet carrying the program of lesson work, which is an excellent way of giving this needed information in a city of great distances and scattered membership.
"The Relief Society work here is showing progress. Our Sisters are very much interested in the courses of study. Most of our class leaders all through the stake are very efficient and trained in their special fields of work.
"We are happy to see added interest in the visiting teachers' work. Our Sisters are handicapped in this work because of members being scattered all over the cities, but they are meeting this condition as best they can.
"Sunday, January 8, we had a very successful leadership meeting. The Teachers' Training Class held in connection with M. I. A. Workers and under the direction of Dr. Royal Garff is proving to be very successful. Our ward conferences have been held. All were well planned and a very splendid spirit manifest among the officers and members. Sister Matheson, our stake chorister, is creating interest in Relief Society mothers' choruses. At present we have three very fine choruses organized and working."
Cottonwood Stake
Friday, May 12, 1939, National Hospital Day was appropriately observed by the Cottonwood Maternity Hospital. A short program, followed by a visit through the institution, did honor to the day. Relief Society Stake President, Lyle M. Berry, who is also superintendent of the hospital, presided. Counselor Florence H. Bennion conducted the exercises. President and Sister Heber J. Grant, members of the General Board of Relief Society, former Stake President U. G. Miller, former Relief Society President Sister Amanda N. Bagley and her counselors, were among the distinguished guests present. A brief history of the hospital was given by Secretary Josephina J. Miller, from which the following excerpt is quoted:
"Some time ago Sister Amanda N. Bagley, the first president of the Cottonwood Stake Relief Society, was asked: 'Just what was it that prompted a desire in you to establish the Maternity Hospital?' Her reply was: 'Having had two mothers in my neighborhood die during childbirth from conditions which could have been prevented had they received proper care, seeing children left motherless, I longed to do something for mothers to make motherhood safer.'"
Her counselors, Mary S. Cornwall and Rena M. Wheeler, were with Sister Bagley in thought and action. A plan for a hospital, approved by Stake President U. G. Miller, was submitted to President Clarissa S. Williams. The plan was then referred to the First Presidency of the Church and the Presiding Bishopric who purchased property for the hospital site with the understanding that the Relief Society furnish and maintain it. Aid was given the enterprise by the doctors of the community, public-spirited citizens, ward Relief Societies, the stake sewing department, Salt Lake County, and Jordan Stake. December 10, 1924, the hospital was formally opened to the public, at which time Apostle Melvin J. Ballard offered the dedicatory prayer. There have been a number of changes in the Relief Society stake organization since that date, but there has been no interruption in the service rendered by the organization in maintaining a modern hospital. The number of patients has constantly increased as well as the quality of service. Sister Lyle M. Berry, present president of the Cottonwood Stake and superintendent of the hospital, has been purchasing agent from the time of its opening. Up to date there have been 422 patients admitted, with no deaths of mothers directly due to the complications of childbirth. A missionary service of thirteen years without a penny of remuneration has indeed been rendered by devoted stake Relief Society workers.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JULY - 479
MY PRAYER
I'm making tiny garments For a baby wee and fair, And with each little stitch I take, I breathe a silent prayer
For patience, and for wisdom, That I may always be Worthy of this sacred trust That God has given me.