HAPPENINGS By Annie Wells Cannon
July—Service to God, country and mankind is the watchword of the good citizen.
Vacation time, and all who can seek change from the routine of everyday life—sightseeing, visiting old friends, back to the old home town—and somewhere among the fishing tackle or the summer clothes there is a book for the anticipated leisure hour. Thanks to the radio and cinema there is a revival of the classics, and out from forgotten shelves come Dickens, Hugo, Dumas and others; then the market offers hundreds of new books.
Queen Elizabeth held the limelight among women when with King George she made the grand tour through their Canadian provinces and to the United States. The Queen's charm, affability and pretty clothes won admiration, but her genuine delight when greeting the beautiful quintuplets won the hearts of all.
Mme. Halina Siennicka of Poland, recently decorated with the Order of the Yugoslavian Crown, made a tour of the United States lecturing on "Polish Women of Today".
Kateri Tekawitha, "The Lily of the Mohawks," an American Indian girl of the 17th century, is being recommended for beatification. A postulator has been appointed to consider her worthiness to be proclaimed a Saint.
Margaret Lamb and Mary Smith, 80, the oldest Utah-Idaho twins, went to the San Francisco Fair where they led the parade of 136 sets of twins and took the grand prize.
Mrs. Theodore Roosevelt, Jr., friend of Mme. Chiang Kai-Shek, put over an Oriental exhibit in New York to raise funds for Chinese war orphans. Among the articles exhibited was a Buddhist pagoda of white jade and a gold lacquer and mother of pearl teakwood Dragon Throne.
Bertha Greenwald Bamberger, of Utah, died last May. She was widely known and loved for her many charities and civic service.
Jeanette Irvine McMurrin, 85, Bertha Parkinson Larsen, 59, and Lucinda Jackson Parker, 91, three beloved mothers and Relief Society workers, died recently.
May Williams Hartman, 97, and Sarah Neiber O'Driscoll, 90, pioneer mothers and workers in the Relief Society, had great honor shown them on their birthdays last May.
Leona Speyer has been awarded the honor of the Golden Rose by the New England poetry clubs for her recent volume of poetry.
Etta Keun in her book, "I Think Aloud in America," says she believes Americans are the only hope for the survival of Occidental civilization.
 
THE GENERAL BOARD Amy Whipple Evans Emeline Y. Nebeker Rosannah C. Irvine Janet M. Thompson Beatrice F. Stevens Nettie D. Bradford Belle S. Spafford Rae B. Barker Marcia K. Howells Vivian R. McConkie Anna S. Barlow Ida P. Beal Jennie B. Knight Donna Durrant Sorensen Nellie O. Parker Leda T. Jensen
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Emma A. Empey Annie Wells Cannon Lalene H. Hart Cora L. Bennion
Editor - - - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Manager - - - - - - - - - -: Louise Y. Robison Assistant Manager - - - - - - - - - - Amy Brown Lyman