"It's the newest style." John grinned and ran rough fingers (Continued on page 503) EMPIRE BUILDERS "This is the place," the leader cried, Standing there on the mountain side, Viewing the shrubs and sand and sage Blowing and swaying to the water's edge. Dreary and bare the desert spread Out from the lake—for ages dead, Hidden by cliff and crag and peak, - "This is the place we came to seek— This is the place". This is the place where deeds are done, This is the place in sage and love and religious fervor are usually faster if the mood contains joy, slower if it contains sorrow. Passive moods
B. Dynamics:
1. Less intense emotion of any kind may be expressed either by extreme loudness or extreme softness. Intense emotions call for medium loudness or medium softness.
2. In songs, the sentence structure partially controls the finer shading. Nouns, pronouns, adjectives, adverbs and verbs are sung louder than conjunctions and prepositions. The most important word of the sentence or phrase is usually sung loudest, preceded by a crescendo and followed by a diminuendo.
3. The accented syllables of a word are sung louder than unaccented ones.
4. The musical phrase usually consists of 4 (sometimes 2) measures, with a point of rest at the end. It should be treated in one or more of the following ways: a. It may be louder in the middle and softer at both ends, or vice versa. b. When the melody goes up, sing louder, when it goes down, softer. c. A very long note should not usually be the same loudness throughout. d. When a phrase or section is repeated, do not do it the same way both times. The words will usually determine which to do.
IV. Projection of the Mood to the Singers: A. A large beat goes with a slow tempo, a small one with a fast tempo.
1. Tempo changes can be indicated by changing both size and speed, either gradually or suddenly. Change of speed alone is not enough.
B. When tempo remains the same, a large beat indicates loudness, a small one softness.
1. Dynamics changes can be indicated by changing the size of the beat, keeping its speed constant.
2. Intensity of any type of emotion can be communicated to the singers by tensing the muscles of the entire body.
C. Attack, Release, Accent, Change in speed - In these, the motions of the left hand parallel those of the right.
D. Think of the emotion to be expressed. This will result in appropriate facial expression, which is the most effective of all means of projecting mood.
E. The left hand is used always for emphasis. When raised, it attracts attention. Therefore, it should be used only when needed, and relaxed at the side the rest of the time. These are uses of the left hand: a. Soft, palm down b. Louder, palm up c. Loudest, doubled fist. Intensity of emotion is expressed by tension in the muscles of the hand and arm. d. Special indications to individual parts, accomplished by pointing at the section involved at the proper time. e. Change in dynamics.
F. Breathing pauses can be indicated by taking a breath in such a way that the singers can do it with you.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JUNE - 423
IT'S NO SECRET By Anna Prince Redd
A little wind, a little rain, A breath of scented rhapsody half pain, Clouds in ultramarine blue, Buds just swelling, wet with dew, Bird a-tilt upon a limb Joy of life quite bursting him; Things a-tremble with new birth, Pungent odors from the earth, Reviving warmth, the clean washed smell, Oh all the world combines to tell— It's Spring!
424 - JUNE, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
LESSON PREVIEW 1939-40
Theology and Testimony MINISTRY OF THE EARLY APOSTLES
The course in Theology for the year 1939-40 is to be a continuation of the New Testament, containing further information about the "Ministry of The Early Apostles," their personalities and lives. We feel sure the lessons will be inspiring and helpful to all those who study them, for great effort has been taken in their preparation; much research and exhaustive reading have been necessary. The lessons on John the Beloved, Matthew the Publican and Paul the Missionary are especially colorful and interesting. Such a course carefully studied will enrich the lives of all who have the privilege of taking it. It forms a foundation for character building, for a better understanding of human relations, and a greater appreciation of everything worth while in life's experience.
Following are the lesson titles:
1. John the Beloved.
2. John the Beloved (Cont'd.).
3. Matthew the Publican.
4. Saul the Pharisee and Persecutor.
5. Saul's Vision and the Changed Life.
6. Paul the Missionary.
7. Paul the Missionary (Cont'd.).
8. Paul the Writer.
9. Paul's Lasting Influence.
Visiting Teacher Department MESSAGES TO THE HOME
The spiritual messages to be presented by the visiting teachers are taken from the teachings of the Early Apostles. These messages correlate with the Theology lessons and are designed to improve personalities and strengthen both home and church relationships.
The following messages are to be presented:
1. Establishing Goals.
2. Unity.
3. Befitting Speech.
4. Gifts.
5. Manifestations of Love.
6. Giving.
7. Kindness.
8. Unselfishness.
9. Charity Never Faileth.
Work and Business Department The Selection and Preparation of Food for Proper Nutrition
I. Family's Food Supply A. What to eat B. How much to eat C. Why to eat it (food values) D. Preparation to retain food values E. How to provide year's food supply
1. Production of food supply (a) Home gardens, poultry, meat supply (family cow), etc.
2. Purchasing of foods which cannot be produced at home
II. Food Sanitation A. Work shop (kitchen) B. Worker C. Food supply
1. Market
2. At home (a) Milk, vegetables, fruits, meats, etc.
III. Clean Dishes A. Why clean dishes? B. What are clean dishes? C. How to get clean dishes
1. Desirable equipment
2. Desirable methods
IV. Selection and Preparation of Vegetables A. What vegetables to use
1. Green, yellow or leafy
2. Potatoes
3. One other B. Why to use them
4. Food values C. How to prepare them
5. Cooking of the vegetables
6. Salad preparation
V. The Efficient Kitchen for Food Preparation A. Selection and Care of Equipment and Utensils
1. Stove
2. Refrigerator
3. Sink
4. Tables, stools
5. Utensils B. Arrangement
6. Time and effort saving arrangement for preparing and serving of food
7. Best arrangements for cleaning up
8. Storage for staples
9. Storage for perishables
10. Storage for utensils
11. A planning or business center for efficiency
VI. Food Habits and Appetites A. What are good food habits? B. Why have good food habits? C. How to develop good food habits
1. Start early
2. Introduce new foods gradually
3. Emphasize power of example
4. Provide proper environment
5. Use attractive service
VII. Healthful Kitchens for Wholesome Food A. Safe supply of water—running hot and cold water B. Sanitary disposal of kitchen waste C. Light, both day and night—surface finishes, natural light, artificial light D. Heat and ventilation—screening E. Freedom from accident hazards F. Safe and efficient cleaning methods
1. Walls
2. Woodwork
3. Floors
4. Stove
5. Sink
6. Refrigerator
7. Utensils
VIII. Lunches Away From Home A. What comprises a good lunch? B. Why have a good lunch? C. How to prepare a good lunch
IX. Preservation of the Food Supply A. What to preserve
1. Amount to preserve B. Why preserve foods? C. How to preserve foods
2. Storage (a) For winter (b) Short-time storage
3. Drying
4. Canning
5. Freezing
Helpful material and suggestions on each of the lessons will be sent to stake presidents and mission presidents in the United States.
Literary Department THE ADVANCE OF THE NOVEL
The Literary study for 1939-40 is a continuation of "The Advance of the Novel," with the same objectives as stated at the beginning of the course: To trace the novel from its beginning and show the dominant position it holds in the field of literature today; to develop taste and judgment in selecting from the very extensive number of books available; to exercise literary guidance and to help interpret some of the masterpieces of fiction.
The Advance of the English Novel by William Lyon Phelps will still be found a stimulating and delightful reference book. The Story of the World's Literature by John Macy will be used as a reference. This book was purchased by the stakes and wards for use in the 1933-4 Literary course, "Life and Literature". It should have been preserved and will be found very useful in the present course.
Three great novels will be studied and can be obtained at the Deseret Book Store after July 1, 1939: Personal Recollections of Joan of Arc—Mark Twain............$1.75 Les Miserables—Victor Hugo.....1.00 The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse—Blasco Ibanez.....1.00 The Story of the World's Literature—John Macy.........75
Social Service Psychology and Modern Problems
The aim of the Social Service lessons for the coming year is to apply psychology to the problems with which every mature person is faced in an ever changing world today. If we are to conduct ourselves wisely in meeting the rapidly changing daily scene, we need most of all to understand ourselves and each other. The world is a troubled one today, not because we lack control over the forces of nature, but because we do not fully understand ourselves and each other. The course for the coming year is designed to broaden our understanding of human nature and thereby to contribute to happy living.
The following lesson titles indicate the scope of the subject matter to be presented:
1. How Does Propaganda Affect Me?
2. Psychology of Fads, Crazes, and Fashions.
3. How Shall I Conduct Myself in an Age of Automobiles?
4. Psychology of Resisting Sales Pressure.
5. How to Sell the Gospel.
6. Psychology of Personal Efficiency.
7. Superstition or Reason—Which Shall I Follow?
8. Psychology of Happy Living.
No Social Service lesson or lesson in Family Relationships is planned for December.
Mission Lessons L. D. S. Church History (To be used on Literary day)
This is a course in the history of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. It does not aim to include the teachings or doctrines of the Church, except incidentally, as they are associated with the historical events. Before an idea can properly be understood, something must be known of the conditions under which it was received, something about the person or persons to whom it was given, and something about the way it was developed and applied in human life. It is the purpose of the present course to give these preliminary matters. Most of this material is in the form of narrative, incident, story, and is for this reason exceedingly interesting and understandable. In association with this history are some poems and songs composed under the spirit of the Restored Gospel. It is hoped that these will add to both the information and the enjoyment of those who take this course. The poems may be memorized, discussed in the class, and the songs sung, as the teacher may see fit. In every case, however, they grew out of the situation treated in the lesson in which they appear.
There can be no question as to the importance of such a course. The revelations given to the Prophet Joseph Smith were intended for those who live in this Dispensation, just as the Bible was intended for the Christian and the pre-Christian Dispensation and the Book of Mormon for the peoples who lived on the American continents anciently. Joseph Smith is pre-eminently our prophet, and he is so in exactly the same sense that Isaiah was an Hebraic prophet, Alma the Elder a prophet to the Nephites, and Mahonri the prophet of the Jaredites. Since this is so, it should follow that nothing can be of greater importance to our generation than to know how God has manifested himself to us in this age of the world. As God adapted his revelations to the Hebrews and to the peoples of the Book of Mormon, so he has adapted his revelations to us. And the following lessons are the history of how that was done:
1. The First Vision.
2. Cumorah and the Book.
3. The Ancient Plates.
4. Our Book of Mormon.
5. Witnesses.
6. Organization of the Church.
7. Early Growth of the Church.
8. The Church Moves West.
9. Events in Missouri.
Education for Family Life FAMILY RELATIONSHIPS
In harmony with the wishes of members of the classes in Education for Family Life as expressed by stake presidents at our recent April Conference, we shall continue our lessons in Family Relationships during the year 1939-40. The theme for the basis of our discussions shall be "My Home is My Refuge". It shall be our aim to make the lessons as practical, as stimulating, and as interesting as possible. In planning the lessons we shall keep in mind particularly the needs of our young parents, those who have more recently assumed the responsibilities of founding a home and of rearing a family. In our discussions we shall consider the family as "a unity of interacting personalities," thus emphasizing the great importance and the high value of the human relationship factor in family life.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JUNE - 429
The following are the lesson titles:
1. The Importance of Unimportant Things.
2. My Responsibility To My Home Partner.
3. The Family Pocketbook.
4. My Parents Do Not Know Me.
5. The Place of the Father in the Home.
6. Family Strength in Proportion to Family Unity.
7. The Family Council Plan.
8. My Home Is My Refuge.
MY GOAL By Flo Seegmiller Hall
If there's a thing I long for In this old hectic life, It is to keep my soul at peace Through all the toil and strife.
I want the most a happy home Where everyone is glad, Where corn is popped and taffy pulled Whether times be good or bad.
I want to grow old gracefully, To keep alert and gay; To keep the faith and know my God, And not forget to pray.
But most of all I want my walls A perfect haven of rest For him who works so hard to earn The things with which we're blest.
I want his steps to quicken When he starts home at night, His thoughts to be of loved ones, A hearth that's warm and bright.
I want my home to be a place Where sacrifice is known, For it's by aches and tears and pain That we become full grown.
sun Where dreams are dreamed and dreams come true And roses bloom where the sage once grew; Once dreary and brown, now shining and green. Moist and sweet the mountain stream Spreads its waters over the waste Whispering, "Truly, this is the place— This is the place."
This is the place where heart and brain, Striving to build, and not in vain, Nourished the grain and laid the stones, Hewed the logs and builded homes. Out of the waste a city sprung Climbing the ladder rung by rung. Slowly, steadily, not in haste, The people came, for "This is the place— This is the place."
This is the place that faith has won, With labor and love and deeds well done; Nourished by Him who brought them here, They learned to love and not to fear. Building on hope and love of God, Turning and tilling the virgin sod, They built a city the desert to grace, A light to the world, for "This is the place— This is the place." —Zella Jones Landon.
Relief Society Participation in Church Welfare
Again our Father in Heaven has blessed us with bountiful harvests. As one rides through the country, he is impressed with the fact that there is food enough for everyone and that no one should go without the necessary amount and variety of food needed for health. The Pioneers who followed the admonition of their prophet had this security. President Brigham Young's teachings are as applicable today as then:
"This is the greatest wealth we possess—to know how to direct our labors rightly, spending every hour advantageously for the benefit of our wives and children and neighbors."
"It is good policy and economy to sustain each other."
"Never let anything go to waste. Be prudent, save everything, and what you get more than you can take care of yourselves, ask your neighbors to help you conserve."
The season of abundance is here. Now is the time for thoughtful planning for the future. When winter comes, what a feeling of security we would have if each home had its own supply of fruit and vegetables and the storehouses were full for emergencies. But let us not forget that the happy satisfied people will be the ones where the security comes through their own efforts. Every one should have opportunity for this satisfaction.
In the Salt Lake Region plans have been made to assure this as far as possible. The ward presidents and work directors have made a survey covering the following points:
The homes in which help will be needed.
The women from these homes who can work at the canning center. (A woman who has young children with no one responsible to care for them should not leave home to work.)
The homes where there are facilities for home canning.