Ishbel, Marchioness of Aberdeen and Temair By Annie Wells Cannon
On April 22, 1939, Ishbel Marjoriebanks Gordon was laid to rest in the little family cemetery near Haddo House, surrounded by the roses and heather of her beloved Scotland. In the passing of Lady Aberdeen the International Council of Women has lost a great leader, and the women of the world a staunch and loyal friend. Hers was a career of remarkable activity throughout the years of a long life. She knew no boundaries, but her friendliness and good will radiated generously to all who came in contact with her. The Golden Rule, adopted as the symbol of the International Council of Women, was her philosophy of life, and she strove in a religious sense to serve her Maker in work for mankind. Thus, we see her in girlhood a Sunday school teacher; as a young wife, with her devoted husband engaged in educational and settlement work not only among the tenants on their own estates but throughout the rural districts of Scotland; as Vice-Reine of Ireland she founded health associations and helped to build sanitoriums to alleviate the sufferings of the industrial workers in Ireland; as wife of the Governor General of Canada she found many opportunities for her humanitarian activities, and here she founded in 1893 the National Council of Women of Canada.
At the Congress of Women held in Chicago during the Columbian Exposition, Lady Aberdeen was elected president of the International Council of Women, a position she held for a period of thirty-six years. Many Utah women through affiliation with the National Council knew Lady Aberdeen well and had a keen appreciation of her brilliant intellect, her executive ability, and her general worth. Delegates from the Relief Society and Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association have attended all the Quinquennials and participated in these great Council sessions since the beginning as they have been held in the great capitals of the different nations. The last three held in Paris, Dubrovnik and Edinburgh were attended by President Louise Y. Robison at Paris, and by Counselor Amy Brown Lyman at Dubrovnik and Edinburgh; they were impressed as always with Lady Aberdeen's dignity and ability though advanced in years. A most notable Council was the one held in 1899 in London, when her late Majesty Queen Victoria received the foreign and colonial delegates at Windsor Castle. At this Quinquennial there was a large delegation of American women, including Susan B. Anthony, Mrs. Stanton, Anna Howard Shaw and other notables. From Utah there were about fifteen delegates, headed by Emmeline B. Wells of the Relief Society and Susa Y. Gates of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association.
454 - JULY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
LADY ABERDEEN
Lord and Lady Aberdeen in 1915 toured the United States in the interest of their Irish philanthropies. They were hospitably entertained in Utah by the General Board of the Relief Society and a committee from other affiliated organizations. Among the functions was a banquet at the Hotel Utah at which many tributes were paid the titled guests. The decorations were shamrocks and carnations.
Lady Aberdeen's last visit to America was to preside at the Quinquennial held in Washington, D. C. in 1925. There was a large delegation from Utah headed by the late President Clarissa S. Williams. The main theme of this session was World Peace for which Lady Aberdeen had always worked and prayed. Though many were her disappointments, she died with the hope still nearest to her heart. "Faith not Fear" was her watchword when she would quote the Psalm, "I lift up mine eyes unto the hills from whence cometh my help." Peace, through faith and work, is the message she has left to the women of the world.