Literature
THE ADVANCE OF THE NOVEL
Lesson 1
"Personal Recollections Of Joan Of Arc"
In resuming the study of the Novel as a type of literature, attention is called to the first lesson in the course, "The Advance of the Novel", found in the July, 1938 issue of The Relief Society Magazine. The Novel, as a social register, has become a very definite part and parcel of our existence, and it is necessary to consider the different types and the scope of each, and their place in literature today. One literary critic observes that in history life is presented from observation, in the Novel it is presented from the imagination. History tells what has been done by the human race; the Novel tells of the thoughts and feelings of humanity in what it has accomplished. Every great novelist presents his work with the feeling that it is but a chapter from the larger book of life. The effort in this course, "The
488 - JULY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Advance of the Novel," has been to choose those "chapters" which show the Novel at its best and are most strongly representative of the period and race. The great works studied have faithfully sought to observe and portray the spirit of the times and scenes, since it is the spirit which directs the course of events in this world and gives life its meaning.
Turning to the field of American fiction, it is most proper that Mark Twain be considered, for according to John Macy he is "the most original of all our writers and the most deeply and broadly American..... He is the prose laureate of our democracy." William Dean Howells called him "the Lincoln of our literature".
Samuel Langhorne Clemens has made the name he assumed when he began his earliest work as a newspaper reporter to so completely usurp his own name, that it is safe to say that "Mark Twain" is known to more people of all conditions the world over than any other American author of his century. This "pen name" was a term used by the Mississippi River pilots to indicate the depth of water (two fathoms) when throwing the lead.
Mr. Clemens, or Mark Twain, as we shall call him, was born in Hannibal, Missouri, a small town on the west bank of the Mississippi, in 1835. Macy names William Dean Howells, Henry James and Mark Twain as the three American writers of first importance in the generation which came to maturity after the Civil War. Mark Twain was in very deed a son of the Middle-west, which was also part southern. He grew to young manhood in this environment, and spent some time in Nevada and California while the West was still "young." He lived for many years in New England and New York. He traveled all over the world and knew from actual contact all types of men and all ways of life. Quoting from Macy again: "No writer was ever better fitted to interpret the country in which he lived, and no country ever had a writer better equipped to interpret it."
In many characteristics Mark Twain suggests the first great novelist, Daniel Defoe. They were both born newspaper reporters and great pamphleteers. They both said all they had to say, and, masters of style as they were, they knew how to say it. Mark Twain was always in great demand as a lecturer and after-dinner speaker. His magnificent command of language and his knowledge gathered from the whole world, his bitter indignation at wrong, his inimitable skill in using the same intellectual weapon, ridicule, employed by Voltaire and Swift, contributed toward writing Mark Twain's name in indelible characters upon the pages of American literature.
There is a wealth of material on this great author in addition to an excellent autobiography published a few years ago. His books and their characters are like old acquaintances. Great numbers of newspaper articles, Sketches, Innocents Abroad, Following the Equator, A Tramp Abroad, The American Claimant, Puddin' Head Wilson, A Connecticut Yankee at King Arthur's Court, The Prince and the Pauper, Life on the Mississippi, Tom Sawyer, and Huckleberry Finn are only part of his voluminous writings. One critic has said, "His fun may sometimes grow stale, as fashions in humor change, but the serious Mark Twain is a classic as sure of immortality as any prose writer of his age." It is the "serious Mark Twain" we are to study in The Personal Recollections of Joan of Arc. No less a critic than that of The Charles Dudley Warner Library considers this "The most serious, dignified, imaginative work of the author's life, in which he strikes the universal chords of sympathy and pathos and heroic elevation." It is said to have been Mark Twain's own favorite among his works. Perhaps there is no one in modern times who has made a more careful study of Joan of Arc or who is more familiar with Mark Twain than the distinguished American author, Albert Bigelow Paine who has this to say: "Considered from every point of view, The Personal Recollections of Joan of Arc is Mark Twain's supreme literary expression; the loftiest, the most delicate, the most luminous example of his work. The reader will know the true personality of Joan of Arc more truly than ever before, and he will love her, as the author loved her, for the most innocent, the most lovely, the most adorable child the ages have produced."
In type, this work belongs in the historic, romantic novel class, as do Scott's Ivanhoe, The Talisman, and Thackeray's Henry Esmond and its sequel The Virginian. Historic characters and events are closely followed, while the fictitious form and simple style adopted by the author bring the strange drama within our
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JULY - 489
understanding and sympathies. The story professes to be a translation from the ancient French of the original unpublished manuscript in the National Archives of France. This was written by the Sieur Louis de Conte, Joan's page and secretary. This treatment by the author, using the first person, establishes the same quality of verisimilitude found in Robinson Crusoe, giving the stamp of reality and sincerity. The supposed author, de Conte, is of noble birth, two years the senior of Joan. He had been taught by his uncle, a priest, to read and write, which was a most unusual accomplishment in those days, but it accounts for his being chosen as Joan's secretary. The story is logically divided into three parts: First, In Domremy?beginning with Joan's early childhood, the scenes of simple country life and the happy association with the children and people of the village. Second, In Court and Camp?follows her through her stormy but marvelously successful career of a year's duration; her audiences with the king, her marches with the army, her entry into Orleans, the crowning of the king. Third, Trial and Martyrdom?the story of her betrayal, her infamous trial, her execution.
At this period, France was still in the throes of feudalism, and from the time of William the Conqueror, who, though King of England, was still Duke of Normandy, England continued to lay claim to parts of France. The time of the appearance of Joan of Arc is near the close of the Hundred Years' War in Europe, and some knowledge of this is necessary to a correct understanding of the relations of the French and English at this time. The war began in the year 1328, when Edward III of England claimed the French crown. Edward and his successors tried to enforce their claims by war, and the English won some important victories which gave them a strong foothold in France. They were aided by the weakness of the French kings and by the bitter civil strife between the two powerful rival French houses, Burgundy and Orleans. Burgundy was an ally of the English. Henry V, one of England's strongest warrior kings, took advantage of this civil strife and forced a most humiliating agreement with the French. He was given Catherine, daughter of the French king, for his wife, was recognized as Regent of France during the life of King Charles VI upon whose death the throne of France was to pass to the King of England. Both kings, Henry V of England and Charles VI of France, died in the year 1422. The Dauphin, afterward Charles VII of France, refused to be bound by the agreement, and claimed the throne of France, so the war dragged on. In the spring of 1428, the English and their allies made a determined effort to capture Orleans, the key to southern France. This is the time when the story of Joan of Arc begins to assume historic interest.
490 - JULY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
The opening chapter presents a terrible picture of the depths to which France had sunk, and the awful state of affairs in Paris. This was in contrast to the beautiful country around Domremy, where Joan was born January 6, 1412. Her parents were descended from wealthy and ancient stock, but through adverse circumstances had been greatly reduced. They lived the life of simple peasants and shepherds. The youthful Joan was a great favorite with the children, but she was distinguished for her simplicity, her industry, her great reverence for the church and all sacred things. Her patriotism was early inflamed by the fact that her section of France was loyal to its native king. Special attention should be given to the account of the Fairy Tree of Domremy, and the innocent sport of the children, as this was recalled in her infamous trial. Even as a little girl her patriotism for France was equalled only by her deep devotion to her religion. Her compassion for all dumb animals is beautifully portrayed. The rabbits, birds, cats and squirrels were all her pets and unafraid of her. Her tender sympathy for suffering was exquisitely displayed in her conduct toward the beggar to whom she gave her own bowl of porridge. The report of the mad man of the village shows her utter lack of fear and the power of her faith. This episode is most gruesome and dramatic. The war finally penetrated into the peaceful country, and Domremy was pillaged and burned. According to the biographer, "All through her childhood and up to the middle of her fourteenth year, Joan had been the most light-hearted creature and the merriest in the village;... She was everybody's pet.... But now for a whole year and a half she had been mainly grave; not melancholy, but given to thought, abstractions, dreams. She was carrying France upon her heart, and she found the burden not light." She first heard "voices" in the year 1425, but continued her simple domestic life until in 1428 she went with her uncle to the Governor of her province. He sent her home again, but in the first of the year 1429 Joan said good-by to her home and dear ones. It was her birthday?she was seventeen years old.
Suggestions for Discussion
1. Read Chapter 47, "American Fiction," The Story of the World's Literature by John Macy.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JULY - 491
2. Shakespeare's Henry V gives a very excellent picture of this time, early 15th century, in England and France. A brief review of this might be given.
3. Read all of Book I in Personal Recollections of Joan of Arc and list the important characters.
4. Give your impressions of Joan as this first part of the story presents her. Note her deep spirituality even in childhood.
5. What is the proper classification of this novel as to type?