John a Disciple of the Baptist.?John it is who gives us the modest account of the circumstances under which the Christ was visited by two disciples of John the Baptist. (See John 1:35-42) Andrew is named as one of the two, and John the Beloved, the writer, is usually assumed to be the other. As indicated in other lessons we should very much like to know how it came about that John, Andrew, and possibly Peter, became disciples of John the Baptist. It is a great tribute to the latter's preaching and personality that men like John and Andrew came all the way from Bethsaida to hear him, and became his disciples. It is not known just how long John was with the Baptist. At any rate we can consider the time he spent with the latter as an effective period of preparation for his apostolic ministry. We must remember that John the Baptist was a great prophet. (See Matt. 11:11) He could not fail to leave a valuable and lasting impression on the man who was destined to be one of Christ's special witnesses.
John the Apostle.?It is scarcely necessary to relate the circumstances under which John became a disciple of the Master and later an apostle. They were essentially the same as in the case of Peter and James. We are more interested, however, in finding out what John did as an apostle. John was one of "the Three" who were to enjoy a peculiar intimacy with Christ. He was with the latter at the raising of the dead and was present at the time of "the Transfiguration" upon the mount. (See Mk. 5:22-43; Matt. 17:1-13) He and Peter were sent to make ready for "the Lord's Supper". He was at Gethsemane with Christ (Matt. 26:36-46) and was the first to recover himself after the latter's arrest. He was present at his Master's trial and was the only apostle who dared follow Him to the cross. It was John who received Christ's charge to care for his mother. (John 19:25-27) It would seem that he was more intimately associated with Christ than any of the apostles because he speaks of himself as "the disciple whom Jesus loved". (See John 13:23) Macartney comments on Christ's affection for John as follows:
"On the side of His human nature Jesus gave full play to His natural affections, but in a way that never excites the anger or the jealousy of the disciples. Peter, James and John enjoyed a peculiar intimacy, and John had a place all to himself. There was something in the youth that attracted Jesus and made easy the exchange of spirit. We think of John as the one who, above all the rest, had deep spiritual insight and a quick and easy apprehension of the mystery of God in Christ. These traits appear in his Gospel and his Epistles; and it may have been because he was the first to catch the meaning of Christ, to understand how He was the eternal Son of God and how He came to give life, that Jesus showed unusual affection for him. We like those who get our meaning quickly, whose thoughts range in the same atmosphere, and who do not, like Philip, need to have every step and every figure explained."
John's spiritual penetration and insight were remarkable, and it is not accident that his Gospel is known as one of the most beautiful writings in the world. As a writer he was peculiarly adapted to deal with spiritual matters.
John and the Fourth Gospel.?The Gospel of John was universally accepted as the work of the apostle, the son of Zebedee, until the beginning of the last century. It was commonly believed that John moved to Asia Minor when over eighty years of age and that he wrote his memoirs of Christ in the City of Ephesus. The testimony of the early church fathers seems to support that view. But today various theories are set forth as to the authorship of the Gospel. We may point out some of them: (1) That John the Beloved is only in a secondary sense the author. According to this view John's teaching was put into literary form by one of his disciples, so that in reality we have the Gospel "according to John," but not by the apostle himself. (2) That the original author was not the Apostle but another individual by the same name, possibly "John the elder," prominent figure in the early church at the beginning of the second century. (3) That the author is not known at all, and the church from the earliest time could only guess at his identity. (4) That the Gospel as we have it at present is the composition of at least two persons, perhaps more.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JULY - 485
The trend of modern views of the New Testament may justify us in reviewing in some detail the reasons for believing that John the Revelator was the author of the Fourth Gospel: (1) It was written by an authority of the ancient church whose influence was sufficient to secure for it universal recognition as a genuine gospel. It is not likely that an obscure disciple could have written and obtained such a result. (2) The great historian of the fourth century, Eusebius, who had sources before him not now known to us, accepted the current tradition that John the Beloved was the author. Other eminent writers representing practically all sections of the Christian world support him in his opinion. To this may be added the testimony of the Muratorian fragment.* Such evidence proves that by the last part of the second century the Fourth Gospel was well known and used over much of the Christian world because it was believed to have been written by John the Apostle. Professor H. E. Dana points out that there was a widespread belief that the Apostle John wrote the Gospel. From the Gospel itself (21:24) we read, "This is the disciple which testifieth of these things, and wrote these things: and we know that his testimony is true."
*A mutilated fragment containing a list of New Testament Scriptures. This early list was published by Muratori, at Milan, Italy, in 1740.
486 - JULY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
The context seems to indicate that "the disciple" referred to was "the disciple whom Jesus loved," who is believed by most students to have been John the Apostle. While these statements in the Gospel do not absolutely prove the apostolic authorship, they do show that the author was an eye witness. (See also 19:35 and 1:14) That this eye witness was a Palestinian Jew seems apparent because of his easy familiarity with Jewish manners and customs, ideas, etc. His knowledge of the geography of Palestine is not of the second-hand variety as the present writer can attest from personal investigation while in the Holy Land. Furthermore, the Gospel has a marked Aramaic style as could be expected if written by John the Apostle.
Latter-day Saints have additional reasons for accepting John the Beloved as the author of the Gospel: First, Doctrine and Covenants 7 definitely points to the Apostle John as "the disciple whom Jesus loved". (John 21:20.) Therefore, John 21:24 would indicate that John the Revelator is the actual author of the Gospel. Furthermore, a careful reading of Doctrine and Covenants 93:6-26 and comparison with John 1:1-34; 14:17 must go far toward convincing our people that the traditional view of the authorship is correct.
Questions and Problems (Deal Only With Those That Time And Circumstances Permit.)
1. Under what circumstances do you suppose John, Andrew and Peter became disciples of John the Baptist?
2. Name all the benefits you can that John, Andrew and Peter may have derived from becoming disciples of John the Baptist.
3. Explain as best you can Matt. 11:11, 14. (See Edwin F. Parry, Joseph Smith's Teachings, 3rd ed., pp. 87-89, 27-35.)
4. Give as good an explanation as you can why John was specially beloved by Christ.
5. What is there in the teaching of the Fourth Gospel that convinces you it was written by the Apostle John?
6. Have some member of the class report upon incidents of interest or specific teachings contained in John's Gospel.
Visiting Teacher Department
MESSAGES TO THE HOME
No.