Peterson 1939- The Selection of an Adequate Dietary By Dr. Rose H. Widtsoe Home Economics Department, University of Utah POSITIVE or radiant health is the goal which all are interested in reaching. Research shows that the great masses of people the world over are approaching this goal, but they still have a long way to go. The strict medical examination of our soldier and sailor boys at the mobilization for the World War revealed startling deviations from a condition of normal physical fitness. Health surveys at this time and immediately following the war also showed that 300,000 babies were dying annually in the United States before reaching one year of age. These findings aroused the concern of the physicians, nutritionists, sanitary engineers and many others who were working in the great field of public health. Active research and general education in preventive medicine, nutrition, child welfare, personal hygiene, physical education, sanitary engineering, and food inspection were conducted by many agencies all over the United States. A definite improvement in the general health with the extension of the average span of life and a marked decrease in infant mortality has resulted. Never before has the general public been so "nutrition conscious". Good nutrition has come to be regarded as perhaps the most important single factor in human wellbeing. Adequate Dietaries The purpose of this article is to suggest ways and means of building adequate dietaries. Many factors enter into the food problem. In the average family there are persons of varying ages. There is the adult father and mother in the prime of life, one of whom may be doing active physical work while the other is engaged in a sedentary occupation. Then we have the baby who requires certain foods adapted to its digestive capacity and its need for materials with which to meet the demands of the most rapidly growing period during its entire life cycle. The normal baby doubles its weight in six months and trebles it in one year. How important it is then to supply the proper building materials in sufficient amounts during this period. All through the rapidly growing period the kind and amount of food requires the most serious consideration. The next group in this average family is composed of children from two to five years and is known as the pre-school age group. These children are not yet ready to sit at the family table and be served the food which is suitable for older children and adults. The food must still be selected to meet the needs of rapid growth and great activity and be adapted to the digestive capacity. This average family will also include school boys and girls whose enormous appetites are proverbial. This age group, six to eighteen years, requires an abundance of wholesome food to meet the growth and activity requirements. Dr. Lafayette Mendel, in his public addresses, always admonished parents not to ridicule the enormous appetites of adolescent boys and girls. Their food requirements, in terms of quantities, are far greater than that of adults under similar conditions. The writer heard Dr. Mendel say at one time that a strong healthy boy or girl between the ages of twelve to eighteen cannot eat too much wholesome food, including quantities of milk, vegetables and fruits, but he said, "Do not permit them to satisfy their appetites with bread, potatoes, meat and desserts alone". 'These are good foods, but they must not crowd out milk, green vegetables and fresh fruits. 'This average family group may also comprise one or more grandparents whose food requirements revert back to childhood? smaller amounts of easily digested foods. Eating is a Social Matter Eating is a social problem. It is not enough to count the calories and build dietaries that will meet the standard requirements for growth and well-being. The present civilization is rushing through life at such a rate that it does not get the social value out of the meal service in the home that it should. Too often little thought is given to the mornin meal. Individually, members of the family come to the kitchen and select food which is ready to serve or can be prepared quickly. Many adults will take no breakfast at all. At luncheon time, the family is scattered. The older children are at RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JULY - 471 school, often the father is away at his business, leaving only the mother and the younger children to partake of the noon-day meal. Rural conditions are often much better as far as regularity of meal service is concerned. The evening dinner is very often the one social meal at home. The considerate mother plans a wholesome meal for this occasion. She plans as far as possible a well-balanced menu, cooks the food to please the family palate, to preserve its nutritive value, and serves it in an attractive, orderly manner. It is not, in a well-regulated home, a makeshift meal gotten up on the spur of the moment, but careful planning, ordering, preparation and serving characterize this meal. It should be a happy, peaceful occasion and not a time for discussing family troubles. The dinners to which outside guests are invited should not be the only dinners to be carefully planned and prepared. The Economic Problem Another phase of building adequate dietaries is the question of food costs. Much research has been conducted to determine the cost of adequate dietaries at different income levels. The best available reference is "Diets at Four Levels of Nutritive Content and Cost," Steibeling, H. K. And Ward, M., United States Department of Agriculture, Circular No. 396 These diets have been carefully worked out on the following basis: The "restricted diet" is only an emergency diet and should not be used over a long period of time. It is not an adequate diet but Write to Superintendent of Documents, Washington, D. C. And enclose ten cents. A72 - JULY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "represents a good choice of food for its cost"; "the adequate diet at minimum cost" represents a well-balanced adequate diet composed of the cheaper foods, yet wholesome food. This diet includes a large quantity of whole cereals, a limited amount of fresh milk or its equivalent in evaporated or dried milk, a large quantity of potatoes and other root or tuber vegetables as well as dried beans and peas, a rather limited amount of green leafy vegetables except in the growing season when they are inexpensive, a limited amount of fresh fruits and tomatoes except fora short period of the year. This diet depends rather upon dried, canned and storage vegetables (peas and beans) and fruits such as peaches, apricots and prunes and stored apples and SUGGESTED WEEKLY MARKET pears; the cheaper cuts of meat are selected. Such meat is just as nutritious as the more expensive cuts, but it requires greater care in its preparation in order to make it digestible and palatable. The "adequate diet at moderate cost" and the "liberal cost diet" include much less of the cereal foods, potatoes and other root and tuber vegetables, but use fresh milk, green leafy vegetables in much greater quantities throughout the year, also fresh fruits and tomatoes, a wider choice of meats in greater quantities and eggs as desired. Perhaps the most workable guide that the writer can offer is the weekly market order worked out on these four. Cost levels for a family of five: Two adults, three children aged three, five and thirteen years. ORDER AT FOUR LEVELS OF NUTRITIONAL ADEQUACY *Stiebeling and Ward.: Adapted from U. S. D. Of Agr., Cire. 296, 1933. IN the previous articles on nutrition we have learned something concerning the body's need for energy, protein, fat, carbohydrates?starches and sugar, the minerals and vitamins. In order that the reader may RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JULY - 473 see that the first diet is deficient in its nutritive requirements and that each of the other three diets provide daily adequate amounts of these nutrients the writer is again quoting: APPROXIMATE NUTRITIVE VALUE PER DAY OF DIETARIES*: Restricted Adequate Adequate Very diet for diet at diet at liberal Unit emergency minimum moderate diet use cost cost quantity quantity quantity = quantity Energy value Cal. 11,132 12,312 12,280 12,096 Calories from protein % 11 13 12 1 Protein gm. 313 400 368 389 Fat gm. 349 470 519 592 Carbohydrate gm. 1,623 1,608 1,515 1,291 Calcium gm. 4.18 6.74 6.49 6.55 Iron gm..0464 0579 0614.0650 Phosphorus gm. 5.97 8.08 7.48 7:65 Vitamin A units 13,705 23,407 25,315 27,988 Vitamin C units 407 565 787 935 *Stiebeling and Ward. Compiled from U. S. D. Of Agr., Circ. 296, 1933. Translating these dietaries into money values it is suggested, when prices are average, that the food dollar be used as follows: DIVISION OF THE FAMILY FOOD DOLLAR* Restricted Adequate Adequate Very diet for diet at diet at liberal emergency minimum moderate diet use cost cost Milk and cheese 25-30C 0-35? 25-30C oc (Liberal includes butter and cream) ae ye a, Fruits and vegetables 25-20C 25-20 30-25C 30? Lean meat, fish and eggs 10? 15C 20-15C 25-30 Bread, flour and cereals 20 15? 10? 15-10? including fats, sugars and; accessories Fats, sugars and accessories 20C lsc 15-20C *Stiebeling and Ward. Compiled from U. S. D. Of Agr., Circ. 296, 1933. SOME of the common weaknesses of the American diet, "meat, potatoes, white bread and dessert", are: First, twice as much money is spent for meat as is necessary to insure good nutrition. Meat is a good food but very expensive in terms of its food value. A little meat to flavor: a large quantity of vegetables is a good practice. Second, this type of A74 - JULY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE diet is lacking in the necessary protective foods, fresh fruits, vegetables and milk, that supply the mineral salts and vitamins. DAILY FOOD SELECTION GUIDE The following suggestions may be of further help in building balanced dietaries: Milk: Adults: At least one pint either as a beverage or in cooked food; fresh milk or its equivalent in evaporated or dried milk. Children: One pint to 1% pints or 1 quart of fresh milk. Do not let too much milk crowd out the green and colored vegetables. Vegetables: Adults: One serving of green vegetables, raw in salads or cooked; two other vegetables including colored vegetables, carrots or tomatoes, and potatoes two or three times a week. Growing Children: Two vegetables other than potatoes. Include green leafy or colored vegetables, carrots and tomatoes as often as possible. Fruits: Adults: One glass of fruit juice or tomato juice or fresh citrous fruits. Children: One glass fruit juice or tomato juice and two servings of fresh, raw or canned fruits. Whole Grain Cereals: Adults: One serving of cereal or one | serving of whole wheat bread. Children: One serving of cereal and two of whole wheat bread. Meat, Eggs, Cheese: Adults: One serving meat; one serving eggs or cheese. Children: One serving meat; one serving eggs or cheese. Cheese is an excellent protein food and should be used more extensively. Growing children require much more protein food in proportion to their weight than do adults. Cereals should be the dark, whole gtain varieties such as whole cracked wheat, dark farina, oatmeal, or whole pufted cereals. It is an excellent idea to add a small amount of wheat germ to the cereals. EXAMPLES OF WELL-BALANCED DAILY FOOD SELECTION These foods and amounts meet the average requirements for energy, protein, calcium, phosphorus, iron and vitamins A, B, C, G: Infants: Mother's milk or a modified milk formula with supplements such as cod liver oil, orange juice, vegetable jices, vegetable purees, etc. As prescribed by a physician. Child One Year: Class of Foods 1. Cereal grains 2. Milk Fresh liquid. 3. Vegetables Peas, canned or fresh Carrots String beans (All well cooked and strained ) Baked pototo. 4. Fruits Dark farina with added wheat germ. Bread?thoroughly toasted. Orange, pineapple, grapefruit juice. Prunes, apricots, peaches, pears Quantity ? cup 2 slices 1 1/2 pints?1 quart 2 tablespoons 2 tablespoons 6 tablespoons 1-2 tablespoons (Cooked and strained?Canned fruits may be used. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JULY - 475  Butter Butter?fresh. 1 teaspoon Sugar Sugar. 1/2 teaspoon 7. Egg yolk Egg yolk, soft boiled. 1/2 yolk 8. Cod liver oil Cod liver oil. As prescribed by a physician. Pre-school Child: 1. Foods from whole Whole cereals with added wheat germ. 3/4 cup  wheat bread. Crackers, whole wheat. 2 small 2. Milk Milk. 1 1/2pints?carrots, beets, well cooked but not strained. 1/3-1/2 cup Potato baked. 1 medium 4. Fruits Orange, pineapple, grapefruit juices cup All cooked fruits. 1/4- cup Banana. 5. Butter Butter. 2 teaspoons 6. Sugar Sugar, honey, molasses. 1 teaspoon 7. Eggs, cottage Egg, boiled or coddled, or 1 egg cheese, meat. Cottage cheese. School Children: Larger servings of each of the food groups as the children advance in age, leading up to a maximum amount for an active boy, should include all kinds of well-cooked whole cereals with top milk, all kinds of bread rolls, Graham crackers; a quart of milk used as a drink or in cooking; large servings of vegetables, potatoes ?2 medium size, cabbage?1 cup or more, cooked or raw; all kinds of cooked vegetables?at least two kinds daily other than potatoes, lettuce??%4 head; butter?3-4 tablespoons; bacon?2 slices; sugar, honey, molasses, 3 tablespoons; eggs, cheese, meat?one helping daily, one or two eggs and 2-3 ounces of cheese. Adults: It is a serious mistake for adults Ground lean beef patty, or 1-2 tablespoons 3-4 tablespoons to feel that since they have ceased to grow they do not need to give special consideration to their diet. There would be far fewer sets of false teeth, far fewer cases of digestive disturbances and much less premature aging if adults were well nourished. To maintain health there is never a time in life when adequate nutrition is not an important consideration. The adult needs all the various nutrients that children require but in different amounts. Our quantities of food for energy will vary in terms of our activities, but our needs for adequate protein, mineral salts and vitamins is urgent throughout the entire life cycle. The problem for adults is to select a balanced dietary and to limit the quantities to our needs. Overreaching is a common error, cereal grains in Bread, whole wheat including whole Flour for thickening white sauce. 3. Vegetables 2 Slices 2 teaspoons All mild flavored vegetables: Peas, beans, carrots, beets, well cooked but not strained.