Sweets for the Persistent By Mabel Harmer HE State of Utah now boasts sugar factories with an enormous annual output and a payroll of many millions, but the story of the early attempts and struggles of the Pioneers to manufacture sugar, or anything resembling that greatly desired product, is a story of years of heartbreaking struggle. When the first settlers of the State wanted to raise wheat, they broke a few plows in the inhospitable ground, learned to soften it with water, and the worst of their struggles was over. 'The process of manufacturing cloth, from shearing the sheep to weaving on hand looms, was a lengthy one but not especially puzzling. The matter of sugar, however, was one that taxed the ingenuity and resources of the Pioneers to the utmost. They knew sugar to be almost a necessity from the standpoint of health besides being almost indispensable for the making of palatable foods, but where or how to get it remained one of their most difficult problems for almost two score years. Sugar brought in by ox team from the states cost over a dollar a pound, which made it all but prohibitive as a commodity for folk who seldom saw a dollar and couldn't very well afford to spend it for sugar when they did see it. Consequently they had to turn to every means within their power to make substitutes for sugar, hoping that some day they would learn how to manufacture the genuine article, which, after a series of heartbreaking attempts, they eventually accomplished. During the second summer in the valley, nearly everyone had a garden and some of nearly everything in those gardens was boiled down in an attempt to get "sweetening." Among the various agricultural products that were boiled down to make a crude sort of molasses or sorghum were beets, squash, carrots, cornstalks and melons. The product obtained served fairly well for some purposes but, naturally, could not take the place of sugar for culinary purposes or for table use. Nevertheless, the Pioneers accepted the results cheerfully until they could get something better. After three or four years of strictly home manufacture the art of molasses making was taken into factories, three being established for the purpose in 1851. Among those early manufacturers were Joseph Young, Burr Frost and William Freely, who advertised concerning their undertaking as follows: "Beet this who can! 'The undersigned would give notice to the citizens of Deseret that they are manufacturing molasses from the beet at Burr Frost's on Emigration street, one and a half blocks east of City Creek bridge. To all who have a surplus of beets, carrots or parsnips and will bring them to our molasses factory, well cleaned as for family use, we will make from them all the molasses we can and return the owners of the vegetables one-half of the molasses made. Those who are in want of sweetening and are disposed to encourage domestic manufacture will do well to call soon, as the earlier the vegetables are used, the better." The dark, gummy substance that AAA JULY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE was the result of this enterprise was so far from being satisfactory that efforts to manufacture sugar went on persistently. John Taylor, who was a leader in the search for sweets, attempted to make sugar out of corn. He put together a sort of crude apparatus to squeeze the corn stalk, made a boiler out of some stove piping and lumber, but he was forced to concede that the manufacture was not altogether a success. Early settlers down in Dixie during the early '6os learned that their warm climate would mature the Chinese sugar cane from which they produced a molasses that was superior to any made in the northern part of the territory. They found also, that by boiling it down to the limit they could obtain a sugar residue that would serve for some table purposes. Enterprising settlers in Box Elder and Provo also clutched at "sweet straws" in the hopes of obtaining something that could be converted into sugar. In the case of the former, the straws were the small box elder trees that grew in the vicinity, from which a sap was run off that produced a "specimen of beautifully clear and remarkably sweet and 'pleasant flavored syrup". A man who was familiar with the process of making sugar from the maple sap put forth his best efforts to get the same results from the box elder sap, but in the end had to be content with obtaining a fairly good confection. During one spring a sweet, sticky sap appeared on the leaves and twigs of trees in the city of Provo. The townspeople gathered the twigs, soaked them in water and boiled the sap thus obtained first to the syrup stage and then to sugar. It was said to have some resemblance to maple sugar, but the twigs and leaves had imparted a bitter taste and when a sample was sent to Brigham Young it is reported to have been received with no great enthusiasm. The Pioneers soon learned that the white sugar beet was the best source of molasses, and consequently the emigrants were urged to bring to Utah all the seed obtainable, which each family could plant with a view to making its own syrup and sugar. HE largest of the early molasses factories was that built in '51 by S. M. Blair of Texas and a Mr. Beach of St! Louis. The Mormon Church leaders were loud in their praises of this great enterprise but expressed the belief that it would not be possible for them to supply all the sweet that was needed in the community, and that if some expert manufacturers of sugar would appear upon the scene the citizens would be only too glad to surrender their efforts at home manufacture in their favor. They also expressed the wish that the presidents of the foreign missions would bend their efforts toward searching out such expert manufacturers and send them, together with the necessary equipment, to the Territory of Deseret. John Taylor, who was in charge of the French Mission at the time, acted upon this suggestion and organized the Deseret Manufacturing Company with a capital of $60,000. He purchased machinery and apparatus for the manufacture of sugar in Liverpool, at a cost of $12,500, had it shipped by boat to New Orleans where the U. S. Tax duties added another $5000 to the costly enterprise. From New Orleans the machinery was shipped up the river to Fort Leavenworth where it was loaded onto wagons and hauled by more than 200 ox teams over the plains to Salt Lake City at a labor and money cost that can only be imagined. For some unknown reason, the machinery was hauled on to Provo where in '52 the plant was assembled. Only now was the heartbreaking discovery made that the all important bone-cooking, sugar-clarifying retorts had not been shipped with the rest of the machinery. The promoters threw up their hands in despair upon learning that they had spent a fortune with no chance at making any immediate returns; but the Church authorities, having encouraged the enterprise, came to the rescue and bought the dubious assets of the Deseret Manufacturing Company. Later on the plant was moved to Sugar House—or what then became Sugar House—and an attempt was made to manufacture sugar. The attempt resulted only in more molasses and not too good a grade, at that. In fact, it was reported by some to be so sharp in flavor that "it would take the end of your tongue off". Brigham Young still had great hopes that the much needed sugar would soon be successfully manufactured, and at the spring conference in '53 he urged that the Saints generously plant sugar beets. In October of the same year a newspaper item made the statement, "We know that some were disappointed last fall in not getting sugar, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JULY - 445 and some in getting poor molasses. But brethren, don't get discouraged; we have different workmen this year, and if we cannot give you sugar as you desire, no effort shall be wanting to give you good molasses. Bring your beets and try. Now is the time, at the old place before cold weather." It is hard indeed to record that these valiant efforts went for nothing and that after a sugar beet crop failure in '55 the venture was reluctantly given up. The pioneers of Utah were not the only ones, however, to experiment unsuccessfully with the manufacture of sugar. Between the years of 1838 and 1879 fourteen small sugar factories in states reaching from Maine to California went down to defeat in somewhat the same fashion, although none had gone to the tremendous amount of work to obtain machinery that the Mormon pioneers had done. Finally, in 1870 a Mr. Dyer erected a factory in California which by 79 was established on a profitable basis. By 1890 after more research and study two more factories were established in California. Others followed in '91 in Nebraska, and the same year the first successfully operated sugar factory in the Intermountain West began operations at Lehi, Utah, just forty years after the Pioneers had begun their persistent efforts to obtain sugar from the. White beets. The raising of sugar beets and the manufacture of sugar ranks today as one of the State's great industries with a total of fourteen factories and an annual payroll of millions of dollars. Hoops For Amanda By Martha Robeson Wright AMANDA STOPHER sat on the rough backless stool caressing the shimmering maroon silk that lay heaped before her on the crude table. She did not need a new dress for the party; her wedding gown would do. But Aunt Annie in New York had sent by Josiah Meddlebury, who had just come in from a hard trip across the plains, this belated wedding present, this mound of silk, glistening garnet in the early autumn sunshine that poured through the open door and the small square hole in the east wall which served as a window. Just having the goods would have made the longing to sew begin tugging at Amanda's fingers. But there had been included in the package a new magazine called Harper's that showed the latest fashions. Amanda's mother had always cut the patterns for her clothes, but it was high time Amanda tried it herself. Her grandmother's sewing chest that had been given her for a wedding present had the top tray filled with notions, even three precious needles and a silver thimble that was older than the chest; but she knew it would be necessary to. Ravel some of the silk to get thread to match. Amanda's hands gently patted the beautiful fabric. 'They had never had anything like this, even in Nauvoo, where her father had owned a fine brick house right near the Prophet's and they had good furniture and lots of books which they had brought with them from Tennessee. In Brown's Fort, or Ogden as it was now Called, dresses had to last a long time because the piece goods was hand loomed after the spinning was done, unless it was sent by your well-to-do relatives who thought your folks plain crazy for leaving comfort and security to come out to a wilderness full of savages and wild animals. The girl gathered the soft material into her arms and went to the round mirror that hung on the wall above a short wash bench. "It does become you," she murmured, holding the goods close to her face. "It makes your hair and eyes look browner and shinier." She tilted her head this way and that like a small bird looking at its reflection in a pool. "I could make it up in three weeks. For your first dance since you and John were married, Mrs. Stopher." Amanda returned the silk to the table and took up the new magazine. She reckoned she could look just as pretty in those hoop skirts as those ladies who smirked at her from its pages. She could get her waist that little, too, with proper stays; it would not be hard to do either, as her waist was not so very big in the first place. It would not be such a chore to fix her hair that way when it was naturally curly. But how could she get the hoops in time for the party? Had she been at home it would have been a simple matter to have mentioned it to her father who would have patted her cheek or pinched her chin and got her hoops from somewhere. But a married woman of sixteen gets her money and clothing from her husband. If he had no money, he bartered things for his family's needs. John would never think of doing any trading for a set of hoops for a woman's dress. Judge Gerard would think it clever and womanly to want such flipperies, but John would never understand. His people had been very poor pioneers who had come across the plains suffering great hardships for want of food and clothing, and while some of them might have longed for luxuries, they would never dream of getting them for this wilderness life. Of course, she was lucky in having a father better fixed than most of the settlers, one who had tools and supplies and read the law; but she was married and had to abide by her husband's ideas. AMANDA liked being married to John, but it was sort of a comedown to be living in the old granary, especially when Mary Anne Davison made slighting remarks. Mary Anne's father was almost as well-to-do as Judge Gerard, and Mary Anne was just the kind who, though she knew they were only living there until next fall, would start something. John was going to build their cabin the next fall, and he was proud of living in the granary because it meant he did not need help. John had been like that when he had asked Amanda's father for permission to marry her. She had wanted to go with him into the small office in front of their home, but John said he did not need a woman's support. Listening outside the lightly closed door, she had heard her father say, "You're a fine boy, John. Got good blood in you. If Amanda loves you I reckon you have my blessing. But I thought it was Mary Anne you were sweet on." "No, sir. I went dancing some RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JULY - 447 with Mary Anne, but Amanda—well —she's like a young deer, her head held high and her soft eyes." How beautiful John could talk sometimes. Amanda's listening heart swelled with pride and love. "She's young, John. We've kinda petted her some, bein' she's the baby, but she's sweet and a good girl. She's inclined to be flighty and headstrong sometimes like women will, but she'll settle down if you keep a loose rein on her at first till she gets used to things. How about me building you a house near us here?" "No, sir, thank you." Amanda could almost see John standing proud and straight as an Indian— maybe flinging back that long lock of fair hair away from his eyes with a backward flick of his head. "You see the folks have an old granary near my fields, not so far from Rader's store. It's stout and warm, and I'll cut a winda in the east wall and build a good chimney. I aim to build my own cabin next year after the crops get done." "You seem to know what you want to do, my boy," Judge Gerard said. "I admire your spirit, and you'll make Mandy a good husband." Amanda brought her mind back to her present surroundings and glanced about the granary where she now lived with John. He had built a good-drawing fireplace where now a kettle hung, its contents bubbling and simmering. On the rock hearth stood an iron spider on which Amanda did all her other cooking. Against the north wall was built a crude cupboard, while beside the west wall stood her spool bed that her mother had insisted she take; it had been brought all the way from Tennessee along with the round mirror that JULY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE hung above the wash bench. The two crude stools and the rough table completed furnishings of the log hut. It was snug and warm as John had said, and someday John would get her a stove like her folks had owned in Missouri. "If I can get those hoops I'll show Mary Anne." Amanda took a wooden spoon and stirred the stew, then added a bit of water with a gourd dipper. "I'll go ask Mr. Rader about them. He might get some from the freight wagons coming through Salt Lake soon. Mr. Rader said he was going to Salt Lake the next day, and would try to make a deal. "But don't tell anybody," pleaded Amanda, "I want to be the first to wear them. How much do you think they'll cost?". "I should jedge about five dollars." The room seemed to spin around her. Five dollars! She could never get that much money. But she had come into the store and told Mr. Rader she wanted the hoops and hadn't asked the price first, so she could not back out now. "You go ahead and sec if you can get them, please," she said hurriedly. HEN she reached home again Amanda once more sat on the little stool and studied the pictures in the magazine. Even if she didn't get the hoops, the dress would stand out nicely if she made it right full and wore her petticoats. If Mr. Rader was able to get the hoops and she did not take them he would probably sell them to Mary Anne, and then Mary Anne's nose would go a little farther into the air. Amanda glanced at the sun. John would soon be home for dinner. She went to the cupboard and took out a tablecloth, knives and forks. That was one thing she was glad she had— two nice tablecloths to make them remember their manners. The two plates, cups, and slices of bread. And butter were on the table when John came in. "Well, who's this in my house? Haven't I seen you somewhere before?" John looked at her with assumed surprise, as he always did; and Amanda giggled and replied, as she always did, "Your face does look familiar, sir." She dropped him a curtsy. "Mandy, Mandy!" He gathered her in his arms. "John," Amanda began, as John released her, "Josiah Meddlebury stopped here and left me some goods. It's from Aunt Annie in New York for a wedding present to me." She carefully lifted the silk out of the chest where she had placed it before setting the table. John fingered the edge of it with his rough fingers. "It surely is fine," he said slowly. "Won't it be beautiful for the dance? I can make it up in three weeks." "You got your wedding dress." "Oh, no," she said hastily, "it would spoil it to wear it to anything but a wedding." He looked down at her. "You mean you're savin' it for your next husband?" "Oh, John, don't tease me. You know what I mean. It was Mother's wedding dress, too, and I want it saved for special things. This goods will be wonderful made up, and it was given to me." "A thrifty wife," John laughed and swung her into the air. Maybe she was spoiled, as her grandmother had often told her, but was it so awful to be selfish enough to want to make your husband proud of you? John would be proud, too. He might not say so, but his head would be helda little straighter as he walked into the dance beside her in the billowed skirts that would gently sway. Mary Anne with her critical airs would be so envious. Amanda sewed during every spare minute. She was not worried about getting the hoops. She had always had what she wanted, and something would turn up. Eagerly she measured her small waist after she had fixed the stays. Eighteen inches! She would have the smallest waist at the party, and the hoops would make it look smaller yet. 'WO days before the dance John came in with a five gallon keg of molasses which he set in the east corner. "Your father gave me this." John was pleased, for sweets were very scarce and needful. Judge Gerard had made the molasses and given John part of it. "More'n we could use at once so I told Carl Jenson he could have a couple of gallons for helping me with the corn. His folks've had no sweets for weeks." "They'll like this." "Have I seen you somewhere before?" John asked and kissed _ her. She gave him a squeeze and giggled, "Your face looks familiar, sir." '"How's the dress? Done?" "You'll see it the day of the dance, and you'll get a surprise." "Got to get back, Mandy. Want to get through 'fore sundown. Pesky RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JULY - 449 Indians been stealing corn again. Keep the door shut." John had just gone when Mr. Rader sent his son Willie over to tell her that he'd returned from his trip and had the hoops. "Tell your father I'll be over tomorrow, Willie." That night she lay beside John wondering what to do. He slept soundly, but her eyes would not close. If she only knew of some way to make John understand how much those hoops meant to her. But he wouldn't see the need of trading good corn, wheat or vegetables for hoops. Then she thought of the keg of molasses standing in the corner. Her father would not have given it to John if she was not his wife. Why couldn't she take half the molasses to Mr. Rader to pay for the hoops? Father had more molasses, and he always gave her what she asked for, so he would think nothing of it. The next morning John was out earlier than usual, for Carl was helping him finish up in time to rest a little before the dance. As soon as he was gone, Amanda rushed over to Mr. Rader's who stood smiling and cheerful beside the counter. "You want to buy some molasses?" she asked, breathless from her hurried walk. His eyes peered at her through his spectacles. '""Wal, I might. Your father bein' the only one makin' it you must have some o'his'n." "He gave me more than we need. I can sell you half—for the hoops. You can make a good profit." Mr. Rader nodded his head solemnly though his eyes twinkled. "If I didn't hev tuh pay too much fer it. Can't stock up too much on produce 450 - JULY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE fer em, an' cash money's as scarce as sweets." "How much could you give me?" "Wall, les see. A dollar a gallon?" A dollar a gallon!" Her half of the keg would amount to only two dollars and a half, not enough to buy the hoops. If she could sell the whole five gallons! Father would give John some more. Mr. Rader saw the hesitancy in her eyes and hurriedly opened the box. "Funny lookin' contraptions, ain't they?" "B-but I—I. Only had two and a half gallons to sell," Amanda explained. "It isn't enough." Mr. Rader's face fell. "I'd hafta get five dollars fer 'em. An' then I| ain't makin' a mite o' profit, jest accomodatin' yuh. Got somethin' else?" The whole keg would make the five dollars! John could pay Carl with something else, and her father would give them more molasses. Mr. Rader's smile was beginning to look set. If she didn't take the hoops after all the trouble he had gone to, she knew the community would soon know about it. "W-would you take all the five gallons for the hoops?" she asked. Mr. Rader rubbed his hands together and chuckled, "Yup, I'll get Willie tu take the hoops over fer yuh, and he can bring back the molasses." T HOME she shoved the box under the bed. She would put on the new dress before John got home. If she looked pretty he wouldn't think about the molasses, and even if he did he would be in better humor. Because there was to be a big supper given at the dance she and John wouldn't eat very much before they went. She straightened the house, slid the shutter across the window and bolted the door before she took her bath before the fire. She wet her hair jet enough to set the curls. After the hoops were adjusted she slipped the dress over her head. Her hair was dressed with waves on each side of the center part and curls hanging to her shoulders in the back but pinned up by her ears on the sides. She was glad she had the mirror even if it only showed her from the waist up, though she could get a glimpse of where the hoops began to swell around her hips. She looked pretty in maroon. Amanda looked down at her feet. They seemed almost as small as the ones in the magazine. 'hen she remembered to take John's suit from the chest and hang it on a peg to get the wrinkles out. She hugged the coat. John was coming up the hard clay path. With a final pat to her curls she posed in the center of the room, waiting. John opened the door, and his face lighted as he saw her there, slowly and gracefully turning before him. "My, my, woman, what are you doing here?"; Amanda stopped in front of him and curtsied. John's face assumed that puzzled expression. "Haven't I seen you somewhere before?" "You're face looks familiar, sir,' Amanda replied and kissed him. '"What's under that skirt?" he asked. "Hoops. Like it?" She raised the skirt to show the bottom hoops.