ly being most commion. The refreshments often consisted of molasses candy and parched corn, or raisins and almonds, although occasionally a supper was served. But whatever they ate, the spirit of cooperation and fun was present. THEY must make their own good times. Here was no commercial entertainment prepared and presented. For this reason, a play put on by local talent was usually a feature during the holiday week, while in some of the larger towns regular theatrical societies were organized and plays presented regularly and the proceeds given to some community enterprise. The late President A. W. Ivins, in a letter to Mrs. Zaidee Miles of St. George, tells how the first play in that town, "The Eaton Boy", was presented in the willow bowery, and his sister Caddie shocked the entire community by taking the part of a boy and appearing on the stage in pants. The records of the St. George Dramatic Company, organized a few years after the town was settled, show that for the presentation of the "Charcoal Burner" the proceeds totaled $51.40, of which $1.50 was cash and the remainder labor, molasses, dried fruit, wheat, etc. Produce was accepted as tickets in most of the early settlements. Several qualities mark the recreational activities of the Mormon pioneers, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JULY 441 whether in large centers or small. One is their reaching out for culture, their striving to improve their gifts. Along with the strenuous business of wresting a living from the stubborn soil, they did not lose sight of these ideals. This entry, made at St. George, while the city was still a camp of wagons, illustrates this: "Here I may be allowed, with some degree of modest pride, to state that in the large tent furnished by Brother Asa Calkins I was first to give a lecture on English grammar, and had the honor of being one of the first group to take part in singing as a public choir while encamped." How revealing that short item is. What volumes it speaks for the type of people who made up our pioneering ranks, people who, in the midst of sand and sage, would sit in a tent on the ground and listen to a lecture on English grammar. I doubt that a parallel can be found in the settlement of any other state, certainly not in any of the mining towns of our neighbors. Another familiar institution was called the Lyceum, wherein young men trained themselves in matters of speech and information on history and government. The seriousness with which this was taken is shown by this entry from the diary of a man then in his early twenties: "I have had a good time attending mectings this winter. The young men and boys have a Lyceum, which not only learns us to speak in public but have subjects that are instructive.... Very seldom I missed one of my meetings; even when I lived out of town I attended pretty well and went home 7 miles at midnight. I feel the need of trying to learn as I am very bashful and awkward. AA? JULY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "When I first commenced attending these meetings I used to dread for my turn to come. It seemed almost impossible for me to say anything at all—even if I knew it ever so well." One might go on endlessly, quoting bits of colorful detail, all of which would go to show that the Pioneers were happy, though their surroundings were hard, that they were reaching out for the good and yearning for the beautiful. 'They were gathered from all parts of the earth and brought with them different backgrounds of experience and culture. Bound by common ties of faith, and united in the common enterprise of conquering the desert, they built up a social and community life which was unique. Perhaps the most important factor in this was the fact that the religious leaders were also the leaders in temporal matters and the general directors of the recreation and leisure time activities.