MUSIC DEPARTMENT
SIR JOSEPH BARNBY (Composer of music for Tennyson's Crossing The Bar)
Of all the lovely verses the poet Tennyson has written perhaps no one verse has been more frequently quoted or has been accorded more popular favor than the one so familiar to all, Crossing The Bar. Today these words are of particular interest to us due to the fact that they have been set to appropriate music. Sir Joseph Barnby, the English composer and organist, was perhaps the first person to compose music for Tennyson's Crossing The Bar. This music is of "survival value," for it has lived through the years to comfort and bless humanity. Quite recently, through the fine cooperation of Dr. Frank W. Asper, this particular music was arranged for women's voices, and at the present time most of our Relief Society Singing Mothers are very familiar with both words and music, and copies of it are to be found in many of our Relief Society music libraries.
Sir Joseph Barnby lived an interesting, active musical life. He was born in York, England, August 12, 1838, the son of Thomas Barnby, the organist. At the age of seven he entered the Royal Academy of Music and also became a member of the choir of York Minster at the same time. At the age of twelve he was appointed choirmaster. In 1854, while a student at the Royal Academy of Music, he was "narrowly defeated" by Arthur Sullivan in the competition for the first Mendelssohn scholarship offered to the school. During the years of 1851 to 1863 he was known as "precentor and choirmaster". The word "precentor" was quite commonly used at that particular time, designating a leader of a choir or a singing director, or probably more specifically a leader of a choir in a cathedral. He was at one time music instructor in Eton College and later head of the Guildhall School of Music in London for many years. From 1871 to 1886 he was organist in St. Ann's School.
"In 1867, Novello, to whom he had been musical advisor since 1861, established Barnby's Choir, which gave oratorio concerts from 1869 to 1872 when it was amalgamated with the choir formed and conducted by Gounod, under the title of the Royal Albert Hall Choral Society, now the Royal Choral Society.
"He was appointed precentor of Eton in 1875, a post of the highest importance in the musical education of the upper classes, and retained this until 1892 when he succeeded Thomas Weist Hill as Principal of the Guildhall School of Music."
Several of his fine compositions, such as King All Glorious, The Lord Is King and his cantata Rebekah, a sacred idyll, as well as several secular choruses and songs won for him many favors both in England and in America, and in 1892 he was knighted. His works include 246 hymn tunes as well as some part songs, among them the popular Sweet and Low. It has been said of him that as a choirmaster he had great gifts and managed to secure a wonderful degree of accuracy.
LESSON DEPARTMENT
Theology and Testimony
Lesson 1
John The Beloved
Helpful References James E. Talmage, Jesus the Christ, pp. 256, 257, 140, 198, 220, 679. A. B. Bruce, The Training of the Twelve, consult index under heading of John, and Peter and John. W. M. Mackay, The Men Whom Jesus Made, pp. 57-75. (Harper & Brothers, New York. 1933.) E. F. Scott, The Literature of the New Testament, pp. 230-259. (Columbia University Press, New York. 1932.)
John's Coming Foreseen.?The Book of Mormon makes mention of the Twelve who were to follow the Christ, but special attention is given to the work of John the Beloved. Nephi was permitted to see in vision many events that were to happen far in the future. He wrote of some of them but was forbidden to write the others. His account is as follows:
"And it came to pass that the angel spake unto me, saying: Look! And I looked and beheld a man, and he was dressed in a white robe. And the angel said unto me: Behold one of the twelve apostles of the Lamb. Behold, he shall see and write the remainder of these things; yea, and also many things which have been. And he shall also write concerning the end of the world. Wherefore, the things which he shall write are just and true.... And behold, the things which this apostle of the Lamb shall write are many things which thou hast seen; and behold, the remainder shalt thou see. But the things which thou shalt see hereafter thou shalt not write; for the Lord God hath ordained the apostle of the Lamb of God that he should write them... And I, Nephi, heard and bear record, that the name of the apostle of the Lamb was John, according to the word of the angel." (I Ne. 14:18-27)
This statement or prophecy of Nephi's is a marvelous one when we consider that it was given nearly six hundred years before John was born. Theologically it is of great interest because it states that the apostle should "write concerning the end of the world". The Apocalypse or Revelation of John seems to fit this statement better than any other book we know.
John's Early Life.?John was the son of Zebedee and Salome of Bethsaida. It will, of course, be remembered that he was the brother of James. Some writers have pointed out in the case of Peter and Andrew, who were also brothers, that Andrew was far overshadowed by his brother. A similar relation cannot be said to hold between James and John. James was of higher rank in the Presidency of the early Church, but John became by far the more famous of the two. In his youth John probably lived the life of a normal Jewish boy.
484 - JULY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Brought up in a good home he was early taught to read the Jewish scriptures. This early training greatly helped him in the acquisition of the spiritual insight for which he later became so famous. Like all Jewish boys, John learned a trade or profession. Inasmuch as his father was a fisherman, it was quite natural that he should take up the same occupation.