.
Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance.
Single copy, 10c.
The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires.
Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed.
Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address.
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 11038, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.
Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.
OUR COVER
This beautiful and story-telling monument by the sculptor Torlief Knaphus stands in a prominent position in the Bureau of Information on Temple Square. It represents nearly 4,000 men, women and children who crossed the plains on foot in the great Handcart migration from 1856 to 1860. These courageous people pulled or pushed their handcarts for 1,000 miles between the Missouri River and Salt Lake City. Some may wonder at this method of pioneer travel. The following quotation from the general instruction of the First Presidency of October, 1855, sheds much light:
"We are sanguine that such a train will out-travel any ox train that can be started. They should have a few good cows to furnish milk, and a few beef cattle to drive and butcher as they may need. In this way the expense, risk, loss and perplexity of teams will be obviated, and the saints will more effectually escape the scenes of distress, anguish and death which have often laid so many of our brethren and sisters in the dust."
The three Handcart companies who left early in the summer of 1856 arrived safely in September and October without serious adventure or loss. There were two other companies that set out too late in the summer of 1856. Their history is a tragedy, making one of the saddest pages of Latter-day Saint history. They were caught in the mountains by snowstorms and would never have reached the Salt Lake Valley if their rescue had not been effected by heroic men with teams and provisions. Even this help arrived too late for many. Other companies followed with the years, but the tragic experiences of the 4th and 5th companies were not repeated.
The Handcart companies brought to the State artisans, traders, agriculturists, blacksmiths, and men learned in all professions. While the hardships were many, the Handcart migration stands out as one of the greatest economic and social factors in the history of the Pioneers.
HERITAGE
The will and power to make our destinies, To seek, to choose, to cherish, and to work; The right to worship how and where we please— God gave; we must not, dare not, shirk
The task, the joy, of passing on this creed To those whose strength must serve tomorrow's need. —Cleone Montgomery. The Relief Society? Magazine Vol. XXVI Woman As An Interpreter ~ Of The Faith By Maude Beeley Jacob "A woman's rank lies in the fullness of her womanhood." WOMEN today point with pride, and justly so, to their accomplishments in the professions, the arts, commerce, industry, education, and politics. Today, the position and service of woman is elevated to a point never before attained; today, the power and responsibility of woman is most potent. In this new pride of achievement one pauses to ask, is the ancient pride of the mother of the Gracchi forgotten? In this new elevation of responsibility is woman neglecting her place in the trinity of father, mother, and child? Many and varied are the opinions of those who are considering the role of woman in the world of today. In discussing the heritage of woman, invariably the emphasis is placed upon her ignominious role as the possession of man in the ancient world. Anathemas re still being hurled at Eve for the woes of man and the world generally. The long struggle of emergence from "female to woman" receives much historical attention. Feminism and anti-feminism call for many a eulogy and many a diatribe. The pessimist looks to the future of civilization with alarm as he claims that because woman has stepped out of her role family and fireside have "left the house". To reveal the delusion of equality woman is constantly reminded that a woman has not yet been a Shakespeare, or a Newton, or a Michelangelo, or a Beethoven. Of the divinity of woman, her place in the scheme of creation, what has been said? Of the age-old role of woman, that of mother-teacher, her supreme contribution, what is needed most to be said? That which will bring to the heart of woman the conviction that: "God has placed the genius of woman in their hearts, because the works of this genius are always works of love." In the great heart of woman her significance intellectually, politically, or socially is not the supreme issue. Now, as of old, she accepts her dual role, that of mother and of teacher. Today, the sanctity of the home rests primarily upon marriage. The entire future of civilization depends upon parenthood. "To open the capacities of body, mind, and spirit, so that life may flow in upon a young soul" is the mission of motherhood. To this double-natured motherhood St. Augustine pays tribute as he records his eulogy of his mother, Monica: "She was twice my mother, brought me to birth in the flesh, that I might be born into this earthly light; in heart that I might JULY, 1939 No. 7 436 - JULY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE be born into light eternal." Ibsen, the keen analyst of the social forces that have molded our modern civilization, saw the significance of woman's dual role: "Women will solve the question of mankind, and they will do it as mothers. They will serve also as teachers, the earliest of schoolrooms being the mother's knee." From the pages of the great literary expression of the ages as well as from the creations of art and sculpture it is in this dual role which woman stands glorified and immortalized. S the "Mothers of Israel" lie revealed in the lives of the women of the Old Testament, it is the mother-love of the mothers of Moses and Samuel we turn to for inspiration. It was the mother-love that inspired the mother of Moses to place her babe that the woman-heart of Pharoah's daughter might cause his life to be spared. It, too, was her task to keep alive in her child's soul the faith of his fathers, trust in the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, a preparation which was to make him ready to be called by God to deliver Israel. It was gratitude for the gift of motherhood that gave Hannah courage to fulfil her promise and prepare her son, Samuel, for God's service. Directing the boy's earliest thoughts toward Jehovah she related the great events in the history of the Hebrews, the lives of great leaders were told and retold with pride of detail; for in the Talmud Hannah had read, "Who is best taught?" also the answer, "He that is taught by - his mother." To her this was her sacred obligation. After her son was accepted for service in the temple, Hannah's task received its approbation. Then yearly she went to present the family sacrifice, taking with her the garments she had fashioned with her own hands for her son to wear. This was her joy and her renewing. The reward of Hannah as of the mother of Moses came in the service of the sons that they had prepared for God's great purposes. Christianity, through Mary of Nazareth, the mother of Jesus, brought to the earth the divinity of motherhood. 'To us today Mary, the Mother, is a mystical figure unless her life is re-created out of the historical fabric of the New Testament. At her knee Jesus learned the record, laws, and wisdom of the Jews. To Joseph and Mary as Hebrew parents the training of a son was a serious responsibility. By the age of twelve he must know the commandments of Moses, the six hundred other laws that had been added to them, also the two hundred and fifty-eight forbids, for Judaism had become a religion of exacting discipline. Then there was the historical record of the Old 'Testament to know in detail as well as the wisdom of the prophets. Knowing as she did the divinity of Jesus and expecting the fulfillment of the Messiahship, how sacred the early training of the boy Jesus must have been to Mary. How she must have followed with eager concern the preparation for the first Passover at Jerusalem; how anxious for the approbation of the learned rabbis for her son's preparation, preparation for the divine mission. Throughout the ministry of Jesus we lose sight of Mary. Mary Borden in the biography Mary of Nazareth paints an unforgettable picture of the unrevealed nother of Jesus. It may err in detail, but in portraying the heart of Mary, the mother, it is a revelation of the mother-heart of womankind: It is a Sabbath evening and Mary is teaching Joseph and Jude, her grandchildren, one of the holy traditions that was to rule their lives. "'Say it, children," she urged; "with what materials may the Sabbath lamps be lighted and with what may they not be lighted?" But before the little ones could answer, Mary's mind had wandered to Jesus teaching His new and surprising doctrine in Galilee. Strange reports had come to the tiny home in Nazareth to the effect that Jesus had been cast out of the synagogue for breaking the Law. Mary begged to be taken to her Son thinking that she could make peace with his enemies by pleading with Jesus to refrain from antagonizing the priests. But James had refused his mother, cautioning her to have nothing more to do with her son. At last Mary started out alone. Always she missed Jesus for He had gone on to Jerusalem. Then came the day when with Mary of Bethany and Mary of Magdala, the women who understood the mission of Jesus, she stood by the cross on Calvary. "These women who were the last at the cross and the earliest at the grave." Thus we see in Mary, the mother of Jesus, a pattern of motherhood often puzzled and bewildered, yet trusting implicitly to the end. Good women have been the vehicles of divine inspiration and influence to the world continually. Few, however, like Cornelia, the Roman matron, have been honored by such a tribute for giving noble sons to the service of their country as she was in the statue erected with RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JULY - 437 the inscription, "Cornelia, the Mother of the Gracchi." Great mothers have seemed "unhonored and unsung" each generation, but from their combined efforts have arisen the refining factors of civilization. To man's material world of conquest and dominion they have brought the things of the spirit, "an influence constantly exerted on father, husband, son, or friend, a power wielded from the family hearth to the homes of science and the halls of legislation'. O the women of today the Prophet Joseph Smith brought the true significance of woman's place in God's plan of creation—the great principle of an Eternal Mother as a partner with the Father in the heavenly spheres. Women's rights in the modern sense in the light of this sublime truth fade into nothingness. The divine right of woman is to participate in the spiritual gifts of the. Gospel through the holy Priesthood.. Man and Woman! Truly, "they rise or fall together, dwarfed or God-like, bond or free." When the roll of honor is called of the "Mothers of Mormonism," the mothers of the prophetic leaders of the Church will lead the list by royal right of the glorious sons they bore, God's chosen servants in the Dispensation of the Fullness of Times of the everlasting Gospel. From different lands and creeds and cultures they came but with one outstanding characteristic, a deep and abiding faith in God. Lucy Mack Smith, mother of the Prophet Joseph Smith, will head the roll of honor. Keen of intellect, benevolent in heart and understanding in spirit she accepted the calling and teach- 438 - JULY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ings of her son. Through persecution, suffering, and martyrdom she remained faithful to the cause of right. Brigham Young carried with him through life the memory of a mother whose gentle manners, refined taste, and beautiful devotion influenced so completely the lives of her children. A mother whose tact and sympathy mellowed the Puritan sternness of the father. A mother who taught her children their letters and what little schooling she knew. Whose admonitions were "Always to honor the name of the Father and the Son; to revere the Holy Book and observe its precepts." The life of Mary Fielding Smith, the mother of President Joseph F'. Smith, is the record of a heroine in very deed by reason of her greatness of spirit and soul. Her glorious faith, her indefatigable industry, her personal charm, and her glorious courage are a noble pattern for the young womanhood of today to know and to emulate. The mothers of Wilford Woodruff, John Taylor, and Lorenzo Snow, take their places in the gallery of our honored women as we know and appreciate them through the lives of our revered leaders. So often has the beautiful life of Rachel Ivins Grant been made the illustration of noble precepts and testimony that we honor her for her own life as well as for the life of our living Prophet and Leader. To the noble woman, Eliza R. Snow, supreme in faith, superior in intellect, and a genius in expression the women of Mormonism owe the beautiful expression of the place of women in the philosophy of eternal progression. Taught the sublime truth by the Prophet Joseph Smith she gave it to the world as the poem, "O My Father," testifying to all mankind of the existence of an eternal motherhood. All that modern progress has done for woman is accepted, its liberation, its education, and its opportunities; all that women have achieved is accepted with gratitude as well as with pride. With a more complete understanding of her own mission comes the realization that whatever other role she wishes to combine with motherhood, be it industry, business, or professional life, is her prerogative, but her obligation remains unaltered in the motherteacher role. With the assurance that comes to the women of the Church of their place in the eternal scheme of the Creator what is the contribution which may be accepted of them? What is the great need of today? The great need of the world today is a true conception of the purpose of life; that God is the Eternal Father of all; that the laws of eternal progress are divine laws; that to each — individual falls the responsibility for his own acts; that personality is sacred; and that the greatest of all laws is the Divine law of Love. To fill her role as mother to her children is not all. As the mothers of Israel of old, she must be in very deed an interpreter of the faith, interpreting for them God, His laws and His love. 'To the women of her generation she must bring through the pattern of her life an interpretation of the true mission of motherhood. As the Gospel of Jesus Christ has brought to woman her greatest possession it should be now her greatest responsibility to make her life an interpretation of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Recreation of the Pioneers By Juanita Brooks "A merry heart doeth good like medicine, but a broken spirit drieth up the bones." BRIGHAM YOUNG realized the literal truth of this Proverb and in all his colonizing programs encouraged the people in recreational activities, often "calling" aman to a newsettlement who could furnish music or who could direct the singing or dramatics. He knew from his experience in crossing the plains how often weary bodies were refreshed when hearts were uplifted in song or cheered by the dance. The hardships attending the establishment of the empire in Utah were no less strenuous than those on the plains, and the people were in as much need of recreation. I have been interested in the accounts of pioneer recreation found in some of the diaries which it has been my privilege to handle. The following excerpts were taken from a diary in which each day's activities were chronicled: "Jan. 1, 1882—-The whole town turned out today to help finish the new school house so we could dance in it tonight. I put in the windows and hung the door." "Jan. G—Storm. We could not hold Sunday School in the new school house today, the roof leaked too bad." 'April 10—Myself and wives attended the last day of school dance. Enjoyed myself well. The new school house is better than dancing in homes as we have done. By just a little crowding we can have three sets. The boys don't wring on so bad. Two wagon loads from M.........-.. Attended." (This was a town seven miles away.) Here certainly is more than meets the eye. How clearly is pictured the small building, as well as though the dimensions were given, with the thatched roof which leaked at the first heavy storm. We may be sure that the merrymakers who came in the wagons seven miles would be until almost morning getting home. Here is another account illustrative of the life in the smaller towns: Later in the fall the brethren got pine logs out of Little Pine Valley and Juanita Brooks of St. George found her great-grandmother's journal at the age of thirteen when she was helping an aunt with the house-cleaning. Tucked away in the back of an old secretary, securely tied around with calico string. The backs were loose, the pages yellow and brittle with age, but the handwriting was still clear and legible. She says, "Forgetting my work, I opened the journal and began to read. The room in which I sat with its whitewashed walls, its rag carpet stretched over a bulging layer of crisp, fresh straw, everything vanished, and I was with the Saints during the stirring days in Nauvoo." Thus she was initiated into a hobby which has become more fascinating with the years. She has had the privilege of reading more than a hundred handwritten originals, collected from homes in all parts of Utah, Arizona and Nevada. Some of them were daily diaries, some were made up of periodic entries, and some were They cover, one or another of them, the whole range of the history of the Church. The part in which Mrs. Brooks is most interested is that dealing with life in Utah, particularly in the smaller settlements. It was journals written from memory late in life. They cover, one or another of them, the whole range of the history of the Church. The part in which Mrs. Brooks is most interested is that dealing with life in Utah, particularly in the smaller settlements. JULY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE hewed them and built a meeting house 18 by 25 feet with a big stone fire place in one end. It was built at the west end of the fort, covered with lumber and dirt and ready for use on the first of Jan. 1868. To get wood to warm the house, they chose up sides. They were to work two hours, and the side that got beat was to furnish supper and a dance for the town.." These are typical of what happened in most of the settlements. Usually they cleared a place in the brush, leveled and dampened it, and danced, first under the open sky, later in a willow bowery, and still later in homes before a public building was finished. 'The music might be an accordion, or perhaps an orchestra composed of a violin with a guitar or organ accompaniment. Many a dance has been held to the music of a harmonica. The important thing was that they did have music of some kind. And the dances! There was the intricate pattern of the quadrille, the grace of the lancers, the dignity of the schottische, the rollicking fun of the reels, the speed of the polka which left everyone perspiring and breathless, along with one or two precious waltzes. 'The dances were conducted in an orderly way. They were opened and closed with prayer; the ladies stayed on one side of the hall and the men on the other, and no one selected his partner until the dance was called, when they would "fill up the floor" either in quadrille formation or promenade by couples. 'This gave the floor manager a chance to check and see that no one was "wringing on”. Each man was given a number and was allowed to dance only when his number was called. Energetic young fellows who wished to dance every time must buy more than one ticket. Among the poorer in the smaller towns. It was not unusual for two boys to alternate during an evening, using one ticket and the same pair of shoes. On the other hand, some of the dances were quite elaborate and formal in the larger centers, as their invitations show. One woman writes: "I have gone to as grand balls in Dixie as there was in Salt Lake City in the '60s, with every article I had on but my shoes spun and made at home. I felt just as well dressed as I ever have in my life. We took pains to make our dresses fine and nice, and have our dresses fit us good." Another from the same period but by a different writer: "Mrs. Pratt, the wife of the apostle, came to the dance for a few minutes. She wore a large crinoline and a dress with a skirt of seven widths of cloth, all gathered around the waist and gave the appearance of a bustle all around. I can never forget the grandeur of it." There were many occasions for holding dances. Regular holidays were always appropriately celebrated: Christmas, May Day, Thanksgiving, the Fourth of July, but perhaps more elaborately than any, the Twentyfourth of July. Often this was the occasion for parades with covered wagon trains attacked by Indians. This account is quite typical: "24 July 1867 celebrated in the new city under a spacious bowery. The people marched and rode to the bowery headed by the brass band. I drove the H...............carriage. After the services of song and speech, tables loaded with the peoples' picnic were surrounded and heartily partaken of. The afternoon was spent in visiting and games." Contests sponsoring some community activity were common: Haul- ing wood for the mecting house, graveling the sidewalks, killing off predatory animals, or cleaning the town canal. This was followed by a town dinner and dance.