Social Service
Lesson 1
Psychology of Fads, Crazes, and Fashions
I. What Are Fads and Crazes Psychologically?
Fads change rapidly and frequently and seldom leave any permanent impression on the habits of a people. They usually consist of some slight change in language, dress or manner. The motivation back of fads is a desire of leaders, or would-be leaders, in friendly relationships to assert that leadership; that is, to attract attention, to be marked off from the rest of the group by some novel difference. Thus, new words are coined or old ones are given a new and vivid usage because it attracts attention to the user. So many changes appear in English usage that someone has called it the "English slanguage". Youths of recent years have made fads of expressions such as "oh, yeah?", "so what?", and "you've got something there". These expressions are usually soon overdone and forgotten, having left little change on our accepted language. The course of most fads is a brief one. They sweep from one group to another in an informal way, being introduced or used by those seeking distinction in the recreational group?the boys' gang, the club, the neighborhood, or the community. But as soon as fads become widespread in the group, they kill themselves as suddenly as they were born. They die because their usage no longer gives distinction or leadership to the users. Aside from the novelty, they serve no purpose.
The term craze does not imply an insane way of doing, but activities which have frenzied social acceptance are called crazes. Fads are of incidental importance in the life of the one who adopts them, but crazes
492 - JULY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
take over almost all of a person's spare time. They captivate a person's interests and become preoccupations or obsessions. Crazes do not spread so freely to all classes as do fads; but, like fads, the motivation back of crazes is usually a desire to attract attention. A craze gives a person something novel and interesting to talk about, or it is an activity which will catch the notice of people. A craze "runs itself out," just as a fad does, as soon as it ceases to be novel and to attract attention.
II. A Few Additional Examples of Fads, Crazes, and Fashions.
Fads come and go so quickly that they sometimes spread through only a small part of the population and are quickly forgotten. The radio and movies have greatly speeded up the process by which fads come and go, particularly fads in speech such as slang expressions and "gags". Dress fads are very common, especially among women. During 1937, many new fads arose in women's hats. All sorts of objects from gloves and boots to stuffed birds were worked over into hats. So extreme did the rage become that one person tried the experiment of tying bunches of vegetables or even sink stoppers and chains on the side of the head to see if they would be accepted as hats. (See Life, Dec. 20, 1937, p. 80; see also Dorothy Thompson's reaction to the "hat situation" a year later: Readers Digest, January, 1939, pp. 89, 90.)
Perhaps fads that concern us most vitally are the food and drug fads which sweep the country. We have had vegetarian diets advocated as the "only thing," then there was the fad for gland treatments as panaceas for all human ills. Yeast had its turn as a highly exploited health food. Vitamins and cod liver oil fads also held sway for a longer period but are now being recommended more cautiously. (See Consumers' Research Bulletin, Annual Cumulative Number, Sept., 1938, cols. 195-198.) Obviously, many of these fads are promoted by commercial interests.
Crazes in dances, songs, and games are very common. We from time to time fall into the grip of "catchy" songs which have a brief but violent life. In 1918 it was K-K-K Katy, in 1923 it was Barney Google and Yes, We Have No Bananas. In January of 1936, the Music Goes Round and Round was being accepted with great enthusiasm, but by March 2, 1936 Time magazine reported it was no longer a hit. "Swing" music became a craze in 1936 and still holds considerable popularity in 1939. Other specific dance crazes have been the Charleston, Black Bottom, Big Apple and Lambeth Walk.
In May, 1935, the "send a dime" craze taxed the facilities of the postal service. The idea back of it was to send a dime and a list of names including one's own to a person and to request that he do likewise. Finally, enough dimes would come back to the original names (presumably) to make a huge sum. "Get rich quick" crazes appeal to self-interest in such a manner as to almost always acquire a large following. (See Olson, T., "Brother Can You Share a Dime?" New Republic, May 22, 1935, pp. 43, 44.)
Various marathons, such as walkathons, bicycle endurance races, and dancing marathons are also crazes. In 1928, tree-sitting marathons came; in 1930, dancing marathons; walkathons in 1932; and roller skating marathons in 1936. Even nudism, suicide, and "companionate marriage" have been crazes at one time or another. Bicycle riding became a craze in 1935, when for the first time since 1899 the national production of bicycles exceeded a half a million.
Fashions in dress are so well known we need only mention them. But fashions are also to be found in automobiles, political doctrines, and even in science. The motivation behind fashions is the desire to be marked off from the rank and file of people and to identify oneself with a rather mythical group called "fashionable people". There is usually a desire to attract attention by something new. Fashions change more slowly than fads and crazes because they are less superficial.
A most serious influence fashion may have on us as Latter-day Saints is in the realm of morals. In recent years it has become "fashionable" for both men and women to smoke (of course, it is not fashionable among Latter-day Saints). The use of liquor by men and women has gone through a similar change. The modern newspapers, radio, and movies are making it more difficult for Latter-day Saints to resist this trend of fashion. Whether the fashion of smoking and drinking will crystallize into a custom and remain indefinitely is difficult to predict. So long as it remains a fashion, there is hope that it will "run itself out" by losing its novelty from too common acceptance.
Latter-day Saints should thoroughly understand the subtle influence fashions in the use of liquor and tobacco have upon our attitude toward them. We must guard ourselves against making a sacrifice of ideals for the sake of being fashionable.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JULY - 493
III. What Produces Fashion Trends?
How and when fashions will shift is more than anyone can accurately predict. Many attempts have been made to artificially change a trend, but most such attempts have failed. It is true that leaders in fashion have something to do with trends. Before the moving picture industry took firm root, fashions were brought from Paris; but often by the time the pictures were finished fashions had changed. Producers then brought great designers to Hollywood, and it became the fashion center of America. The name "Hollywood" has such prestige that fashions are influenced by the fact alone that they came from there, regardless of their originators. But such a name as Adrian also gives prestige to a creation and may affect fashion trends. However, great fashion centers probably do not create the fashion trends so much as they interpret trends already started and shape them in some ways.
Most fashions originate with the more well-to-do classes. English royalty have great influence on fashion trends. Note some American fashion changes which resulted from the visit of British royalty. When fashions reach the masses, the groups who originate them immediately adopt something different. The five-and-ten-cent jewelry departments have thrived upon the desire of ordinary people to ornament themselves with the appearance of luxury. This fact has perhaps tended to reduce the amount of really "showy" dress and jewelry worn by the more wealthy classes in America during recent years.
494 - JULY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Streamlining and other fashion changes in automobiles are made by manufacturers fast enough to make a person who desires to keep up with the styles definitely out of fashion every year or two. Many a new automobile is bought not because the old one is no longer good transportation, but because at first glance it is now a "last year's model," and the neighbor's car makes ours look somewhat out of fashion.
IV. How Should I Concern Myself With the Problem of Fads, Crazes and Fashions?
Fads, crazes and fashions seldom leave much permanent beneficial effect upon a people. However, better esthetic tastes may result from fashions. A person also frequently benefits in his personal contacts with people by keeping up with the times. Prestige often is gained by judiciously following fashion trends. This is particularly so in so-called fashionable society. One cannot maintain his social standing without being alert to fashion. Proper personal appearance should be commended to all, and a reasonable following of style trends within one's own immediate group is necessary for proper grooming. This means, of course, wise planning within one's own means and circumstances, and striking a happy medium between too readily discarding the old and taking up the new. But occasionally "fashion chasing" becomes a mania and results in foolish and unnecessary waste of money. Usefulness is often overlooked in the clamor for style, i. e. wearing stylish but poorly fitted shoes. Other financial needs in the home are sometimes subordinated to the fashion needs. Likewise, certain crazes may become similar to manias which absorb more than their legitimate share of one's time, interest and money. Crazes may afford recreation, but they are seldom suitable hobbies because they are usually so soon thrown aside.
A person who is well adjusted and who therefore has charm and direct influence with his group ordinarily does not need to take up crazes to attract attention or to feel like a leader. However, parents will do well to consider thoughtfully the motivation back of fads, crazes and fashions. These activities are especially appealing to adolescents who feel so keenly the need for being recognized. Faddy clothes, language and gestures are often a necessary part of the "growing up" process and should be interpreted, not in terms of a parent's dislike for the particular things the adolescents like, but in the light of the adolescent needs they satisfy.
It is important for all mature persons to learn to detect the fleeting forms of social behavior as contrasted with those of permanent significance. People who are inclined to follow every new fad or rage do not always take time to become absorbed in those more permanent contributions to culture, such as good literature, fine music, fine art and sound philosophy. There is so much "trash" in radio programs, literature, moving pictures and conversations today that it behooves intelligent people to sift the wheat from the chaff, because we usually haven't time and money enough for both.
Problems for Discussion
1. Show what motivates the appearance of fads, crazes and fashions.
2. Discuss how you think the woman of good taste will be affected by fashion trends.
3. Discuss the problem created for our people by the influence of advertising which makes the use of tobacco and liquor look fashionable. What do the movies have to do with this problem?
4. What part do persons with prestige, such as the "movie colony," have in influencing fashion trends? How do they affect "fashions in morals," such as marriage ideals?
References
General sources, semi-technical:
1. LaPiere, Richard T., Collective
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JULY - 495
Behavior, New York: McGraw-Hill, 1938, pp. 185-207.
Concerning foods, drugs and medicine: 2. Fishbein, M., Fads and Quackery in Healing, New York: Covici-Friede, 1932. 3. Mitchell, Helen S., and Cook, Gladys M., Facts, Fads and Frauds in Nutrition, Bul. 342, April, 1937. Free from Massachusetts State College, Amherst, Mass. 4. Morgan, H., "Dietary Delusions, Past and Present." Hygeia, April, 1936, pp. 313-315.
Concerning fashions in clothes: 5. Adrian, "Setting Styles through the Stars," Ladies Home Journal, Feb., 1933, pp. 10-11. 6. Hurlock, E. B., The Psychology of Dress, New York: Ronald, 1929.