He Shall Prepare a Way'"' As I visited stake quarterly conference this past year I was very surprised with one response which came to me in the stakes. In one of the Relief Society meetings we would discuss qualifications for leadership and list them on the blackboard as suggested by those present. Following this listing, each Relief Society sister, in turn, would name the quality which she felt she needed the most. Except in one stake the answers were "self-confdence." I realized again how little we know of the feelings of others. These sisters were all stake leaders and were doing outstanding work in forwarding Relief Society within their stakes. Yet they felt the need of more self-confidence. Recently a letter came to the General Board from a sister who had been made a ward Relief Society president. She had looked at the position, in the past, as a rather routine matter. Now the position had come to her. Her self-confidence failed her and she wrote to a friend, "I am overwhelmed by the call and my personal inadequacies. I don't know how I can fill the office." As I have thought about it, I have tried to visualize just what we need to give us more self-confidence in our Relief Society callings. Certainly, self-confidence is a_necessary attribute of a leader, for who will follow someone devoid of selfconfidence? How can we inspire Counselor Marianne C. Sharp [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 2, 1963] confidence and the ability to accomplish in another, if we lack it ourselves? What can we do to gain self-confidence? How can we go about acquiring the necessary learning to fill with confidence any calling that may come? You will recall the advice of the Lord in the Doctrine and Covenants which we are now studying in Relief Society, where we are commanded to "seek learning even by study and also by faith." 'These words seem to me to hold the key to gaining self-confidence. Where better could we go to study than to the words of the Lord as set forth in his scriptures, wherein the Lord lays bare the secret thoughts and acts of men, and his dealings with man down through the ages. Is there learning to be gained on this subject of self-confidence from studying the scriptures? I have never forgotten my almost disbelief the first time I read an example of the lack of self-confdence in the Old Testament. Moses had always stood to me as the mighty leader of Israel, as the performer of great miracles before Pharaoh, of parting the Red Sea, and leading the children of Israel for forty years in the wilderness. Imagine my surprise, then, when I read Moses' reply to the Lord when the Lord first called him: "Come now therefore, and I will send thee unto Pharaoh, that thou mayest bring forth my people the children of Israel out of Egypt," and Moses' reply: "Who am I, that I should go unto Pharaoh?" Then the Lord in his mercy and _ understanding gave explicit directions. Again Moses said "... But, behold, they will not believe me, nor hearken unto my voice." 'Then the Lord worked the miracles of the rod for Moses, and the leprosy of Moses' hand, and instructed him in a third sign he could give. Still Moses answered, "O my Lord, I am not eloquent, neither heretofore, nor since thou hast spoken unto thy servant: but I am slow of speech, and of a slow tongue." And the Lord answered "... Who hath made man's mouth?" Yet again Moses plead "O my Lord send, I pray thee, by the hand of him whom thou wilt send." And we learn that the anger of the Lord was kindled against Moses and he gave him Aaron his brother for his spokesman. Could any sister show less self-confidence than did Moses when he _ was called? And yet he became the mighty leader. As we strive for self-confidence we are reminded to "seek learning even by study and also by faith." We recall the self-confidence of a young boy who did not offer objections when the Lord told him to perform a hard task, but who showed forth faith to fulfill his assignment by declaring "T will go and do the things which the Lord hath commanded, for I know that the Lord giveth no commandments unto the children of men, save he shall prepare a way for them that they may accomplish the thing which he commandeth them." Nephi had received learning by study 814 of the scriptures, for after he made this statement he encouraged his brothers to return to Jerusalem by saying "... Let us be strong like unto Moses; for he truly spake unto the waters of the Red Sea and they divided hither and thither... Wherefore can ye doubt? Let us go up; the Lord is able to deliver Ms: As we acquire learning by study and also by faith, how can we doubt but that the Lord will be with each of his daughters in the calling that comes to her. Why need we not doubt?) Why can we be filled with self-confidence? Because we are called by the Priesthood of God. As we study our social science lessons we realize more truly the power of the Priesthood, and what such a call means to us. Having accepted a call to a position, then we must study and learn the requirements of that position, for we must magnify our calling. But then in faith, and following the examples that have been set for us, we must rely on the Lord and, if our faith is strong enough, we will gain self-confidence with humility. 'Then we can take confdence in the words spoken of Samuel, "And Samuel grew, and the Lord was with him, and did let none of his words fall to the ground." It is my testimony that if we rely on the Lord and seek learning even by study and also by faith, the Lord will let none of our words fall to the ground, and we will grow in selfconfidence and serve the Lord in trust and joy. May this be our experience as Relief Society members, I pray. Relief | Society to Save Souls 'While on assignment to the quarterly conferences of the stakes in England this spring, we visited Sister Vera Hewitt, former president of the Sunderland Stake Relief Society in her home in Whitley Bay on the North Sea. A lighthouse on the bay caught our interest — especially since living as we do in the tops of the mountains we had never been close to one before — and we walked out onto the rocky promontory and climbed the 150 steps to the top to see the huge light and to survey the world about us from that height. The lighthouse keeper explained that this was one of the few lights still powered by weights on the grandfather clock principle, not yet having been electrified. We were amazed by the _ exquisite cleanliness of the building. Not one drop of oil or grease from the massive machinery was in evidence. Not one speck of dust marred the surface of the huge prism. All was in constant readiness to go into instant action. Later in the evening, when we saw that great light piercing the darkness, the symbolism of the lighthouse and the light and Relief Society caught my imagination. I thought of Relief Society in its purity as a divinely organized Society standing tall as a great lighthouse tower sending out its glowing light and, like the lighthouse, anchored firmly to the rock Counselor Louise W. Madsen [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 2, 1963] so that even the pounding sea could not dislodge it. I thought of the bright light as the light of the gospel and the light of education illuminating the darkness. I thought of its strong searching beam making a path of light from earth to sky like the straight and narrow path to eternal life. I thought of it as a welcome sight to ships navigating the turbulent waters of the North Sea like the welcome which comes when truth illumines the mind. I thought of the light as a beckoning ray with the message, "Come, here is safety," and the mariner, recognizing the light and the lighthouse, knowing he is on the right course. I compared the lighthouse keeper upon whose devotion to duty so much depends to officers in Relief Society, keepers of the _ light, through whom so many sisters in the world are enlightened. I was reminded of the creed of a lighthouse keeper "Mind the Light" — no matter what befalls, mind the light. Then the words of the Prophet Joseph Smith came to my mind, "The Ladies' Relief Society is not only to relieve the poor, but to save souls." This is the divine commission to Relief Society from our Heavenly Father through his inspired Prophet.. "How precious are the souls of men!" the Prophet said to the sis- ters assembled, on April 28, 1843. "Remember the worth of souls is great in the sight of God," the Lord said in a revelation to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery. This great emphasis on the worth of each individual soul is one of the sublime tenets of the gospel. Our Father in heaven does not look upon his children as "'the masses," but as individuals for each of whose salvation his Only Begotten Son gave himself. To fulfill the divine commission to save souls we must, as President McKay has said, "aid one another in the productive life, a life that tends toward the salvation of the human being. By that salvation I do not mean just a place in the hereafter where all our cares and worries may cease, but a salvation that applies to the indiidual here and now." We are encouraged to labor in the spirit of Christ to make our home conditions and environment better and happier. "To permeate each home with the spirit of contentment and peace; to have members of such homes devote the resources of body and mind to the upbuilding of the Kingdom of God," this, too, is salvation in this life. Mutual service is expected and Relief Society, known through the years for service, gives one an opportunity to learn and serve. "The gospel is the power of God unto salvation." Relief Society has been assigned to instruct its members, enabling them constantly to exercise their knowledge of the saving of the gospel. It is the ultimate aim of Relief Society to teach the gospel and to build firm testimonies in the minds and hearts of the sisters so that their lives, their children's lives, and their homes will reflect their 816 knowledge of the laws of God. It is a basic doctrine of the Church that each individual must work out his own salvation. We do not believe that a mere statement of belief in Jesus Christ is all that is essential. One's whole life should be spent in increasing his soul growth by continuous work in accordance with his faith. But the Lord does not expect us to work out our own salvation alone. He will help us, the scriptures will help us, our families and friends will help us, the Authorities of the Church and our activities in the Church will help us. No one goes his way alone. The responsibility is upon each of us, however, to be righteous, faithful, and to do our duty by our fellow men. We are admonished to proclaim the principles of the gospel by our words and by our actions. "Teach one another," we are told, and this the sisters do admirably in Relief Society. "Live the gospel," we hear, and this also Relief Society inspires us to do. The divine commission to