Relief Society to save souls is a commission to Relief Society as an organization composed of almost a quarter of a million sisters, and to each member herself. Let us take upon ourselves this divine commission, my dear sisters, and labor without ceasing in love and goodness to do the will of our Father. The Lord said to Lehi, "Blessed art thou Lehi, because of the things which thou hast done; and because thou hast been faithful and declared unto this people the things which I commanded thee." If we righteously assume our true assignment the Lord may have cause to say unto us "Blessed art thou." and Instructions | It is with pleasure that I bring to you a report of the status of Relief Society as shown in the 1962 annual statistical and narrative report, together with a few suggestions and instructions related to the conduct of the work of Relief Society. The year 1962 was marked by growth and expansion, with emphasis being placed on membership building and development of leadership. Organizations and Reorganizations At the close of 1962, the Society had a total of 430 stake and mission organizations, twenty-five more than during the previous year, and a total of 5,288 ward and branch Societies, an increase of 366. These figures are heartening in that they evidence growth in number of members, expanded influence for the Society, and increased opportunity for leadership positions among the sisters. During 1962 there were seventyeight reorganizations in the stakes and twenty-one in the missions. Membership There was a membership increase during 1962 of 16,991, makPresident Belle S. Spaftord [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 2, 1963] ing a total membership of 248,166 (almost one quarter million members). During the last five years, Relief Society has had an annual average increase of 12,946. We are grateful to Relief Society presidents for their resourcefulness and diligence in enlisting new members from among both Latter-day Saint and non-Latter-day Saint women. Reports indicate that personal contact and continuing personal interest in a woman is the single most effective means of enlisting her as a member. Inter-faith socials, however, which have been held extensively, usually on a stake basis, have been extremely helpful in focusing the attention of nonmember women upon the Society, of arousing their interest in it, and of opening doors for follow-up personal contact. These socials have set new standards of beauty, meaning, and enjoyment for Relief Society socials. (As leaders, we must not lose sight of the fact that dignified, delightful, purposeful social activities are an integral part of the program of Relief Society.) We commend you for the excellence of these programs. Attendance In a day when women engage themselves in many activities and when a high percentage of them are employed, it is encouraging that average attendance at regular meetings of the Society increased by 4.9°>. There was in attendance at each of the weekly meetings an average of 93,224 women, 4,360 more than a year ago. It is the opinion of the General Board that the attendance increase was _ influenced by the increased number of two-session ward Relief Societies. You will recall that these were discussed in the Official Instructions last year which were published in The , , page 807. Copies of the detailed instructions for conducting and recording the activities of two-session Relief Societies are available at the General Board office upon request of stake Relief Society presidents, for distribution to ward Relief Societies desiring to enter into such an arrangement with the approval of their respective bishops. Missions Relief Societies in the missions seem to be taking on new vitality; and tremendous effort is being made by mission Relief Society presidents, fully supported by mission presidents, to bring the branch organizations up to high standards of performance in harmony with Handbook regulations. Numerous types of special projects have been conducted to build membership and to teach the purposes, programs, and approved procedures for Relief Society activities. Leadership meetings and mission publications are effective tools in helping with this. Mission presidents are taking a new look at the visiting teaching program. They see in it, and I quote, "a valuable niche for service and the development of convert members." Compassionate Services Compassionate services show a _ marked increase for 1962 over 1961. Figures are as follows: Visits to the sick and homebound Days care of the sick Funerals at which Relief Society assisted Hours of other compassionate service Thus, during 1962, Relief Society devotedly fulfilled one of its major assignments.