REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS There is excellent preparation on the part of both stake and ward class leaders. More than 22,000 sisters are engaged in teaching, either in a stake or ward capacity. Courses of study are carefully planned to meet the needs of the sisters and to accomplish the purposes of the educational program. It would seem that a class leader would feel a deep sense of responsibility to adhere to the lessons as outlined. As in all matters pertaining to Relief Society, it is the responsibility of the president to see that only the reeommended and approved lessons are presented. Deviations from this, while rare, are occasionally reported. For this reason we call this matter to your attention. Nursery The increasing number of mothers enrolling in Relief Society who have young children is making it more and more mandatory upon ward Relief Societies to conduct nurseries. Instructions as to the nature of the nursery program were given at the recent Relief Society meeting held in conjunction with the stake quarterly conferences. We suggest that presidents review these carefully. It is anticipated that further instructions will be given at Relief Society meetings held in connection with the 1964 quarterly conferences. It is the recommendation of the General Board that the nursery be assigned to the education counselor as one of her special divisions of responsibility. The nursery leader should be carefully selected in the light of her great responsibilities. She is not a baby sitter as we have come to regard this service. Rather, she is a leader of a division of the work designed to interest and develop children while their mothers attend Relief Society meeting. Recognition of the importance of this special asignment, appropriately, would lead to a full consideration by the presidency of the requirements made of the nursery leader, and any necessary assistants would be appointed. Appreciation for the service and that of those who assist her would frequently be expressed whether these sisters be paid or volunteer workers. Visiting Teaching Visiting teaching continues as one of the very strong and valuable programs of the Society. Not only is it accomplishing the original purpose for which it was _ established, namely, "to seek after objects of charity," but it is an effective means of exercising watchcare over the sisters in their homes. In addition, it is proving an asset to the Society in its membership-building and fellowshipping programs as well as affording opportunity for new members, particularly new converts and reactivated members, to be participating members of the Society in a very important aspect of the work. During 1962, there were 4,133,- 868 visits made to the homes by 107,252 visiting teachers. This was an increase over the previous year of 190,272 visits and an increase of 7,193 visiting teachers. There was an average of 9.35 visits made to each family in the stakes during the year. Maximum visiting would be twelve visits per family. The faithfulness and devotion of the sisters to this program and the quality of work done by them merits highest commendation. Magazine Magazine subscriptions totaled 201,570 at the end of 1962, an increase of 18,334 subscriptions. This is the largest annual increase in the history of the Society. The General Board is proud of the wonderful work done by Magazine representatives. Singing Mothers Choruses Singing. Mothers Choruses increased by 125 during 1962, making a total of 2,724 choruses at the close of the year. We feel, however, sisters, that there should be more choruses than this among our more than 5,000 local Relief Societies. We were gratified by the excellence of the choruses which sang at the quarterly conferences during the first and second quarters of this year. We call your attention to the new book, Music Leadership in Relief Society, prepared by Sister Florence Jepperson Madsen. This book offers instruction by Sister Madsen resulting from a lifetime of training and experience in the field of music. The book is available at the General Board headquarters, price, ninety cents per copy. Any woman interested in music will find the book valuable to her. Indian Relief Society Organizations Sisters, within many of your stakes there are Indian Relief Society organizations. The circumstances of the sisters enrolled in these organizations vary, and, correspondingly, their needs differ, both as they relate to guidance and training in their individual and family lives, and also as they relate to the conduct of their respective Relief Society organizations. We must recognize that, in some instances, it is extremely difficult for the sisters to maintain their organizations following all of the Handbook recommendations. Some may be able barely to approximate this, while others may be able to do so in large measure, while still others being able to do so almost entirely. The same is true with regard to the programs of the Society. In some instances, for example, the homemaking program might need great modification over that conducted in our long established Societies, in order that the special needs of the Indian sisters, due to their culture, traditions, practices, and facilities, might be adequately met. The same would be true of the courses of study. In some instances, entirely different courses from those outlined for the Society as a whole might need to be used. We have a responsibility to help these sisters at the point of their needs with patience, intelligence, and understanding. I am sure you recognize that most modifications and adjustments in organization procedures and programs can best be made by the stakes wherein Jndian Relief Societies exist because here there is the great knowledge and understanding of the particular circumstances. Often, the greatest degree of help cannot be given through the stake board functioning according to regular procedures. We, _ therefore, suggest that in stakes having Indian Relief Societies with special needs, a sister with aptitude in working with the Indians be appointed, with the approval of the stake president, to work under the direction of the stake Relief Society president in promoting the best interests of the Indian sisters and in helping their Relief Society organizations to function as effectively as possible in the light of existing conREPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS ditions. Such an appointee would be regarded as "'a sister with a speclal assignment."" She would not be a stake board member. Authorization may be given her to use special courses of study. Where this is advisable the General Board is prepared to make suggestions, at the request of the stake Relief Society president, for suitable subject matter, and shortly will have available for use some lessons which may be simplified or amplified to meet the special needs of the Lamanite sisters. Authorization may also be given for the conducting of a department in connection with the regular leadership meeting for the Indian officers and class leaders. The sister appointed to work with the Indian sisters would keep close to them by frequent visits to their meetings. She would exercise loving watchcare over them. We will appreciate being notified of the name of the sister given the special assignment to work with the Indian sisters. We will also appreciate having the special activities in behalf of these sisters reported in the narrative section of the annual report. The Indian sisters are indeed our sisters, to whom we owe special attention, knowing the divine destiny of this race and our responsibility to it as Latterday Saints. We must be not only helpers, but defenders of our Lamanite sisters. Fund-Raising Relief Society takes pride in the fact that it independently maintains itself financially. The judicious raising of funds and their wise disbursement are regarded as important in the training of Relief Society women. The _ traditional method of earning money for the operating expenses of the Society has been to engage in fund-raising activities which reflect the interests and regular work of the Society and, at the same time, develop the talents and abilities of the sisters. We are noting, however, that questions are being submitted to the General Board with increasing frequency regarding its attitude toward new types of fund-raising activities. Questions indicate a concern as to whether these activities would violate established fundraising regulations of the Society or in any way be. Questionable or unusual. As a guide to you in judging the acceptability of fund-raising activities, a number of which are identified with advertising of products or services of commercial institutions, we offer the following suggestions: The Society should not be placed in a position of being used, virtually, as a selling agent of a commercial institution in promoting the sale of its product, in order that the Society might benefit financially in some way from so doing. Care should be exercised not to place the Society in a position of influencing the sisters to patronize one merchant over another, either as to his product or services, in order that it might benefit financially. In no instance should the names of Relief Society officers or members be released to a commercial institution for solicitation in selling its product or for any other reason. We again caution Relief Society presidents against entering into arrangements with commercial institutions in the publication of books 822 — for example, songbooks, anthologies of verse, or cookbooks — wherein the Society must make certain commitments and where both the Society and the commercial institution share in the _ profits. Before entering into such an arrangement, we urge you to discuss the matter fully with your presiding Priesthood authority. In addition, sisters, we urge that in planning fund-raising activities, presidents carefully weigh the time, labor, and commodity contributions required of the sisters. We suggest that Relief Society presidents carefully review the instruction in the Handbook of Instructions on "Participation in Advertising Programs," page 108, and also the section on "'Funds" in the Handbook, pages 114-118, as well as instructions on funds issued in Official Instructions at past general conferences. We refer you to the following issues of The : Volume 27 (1940), May, page 297; Volume 36 (1949), December, page 808; Volume 42 (1955), November, page 732; Volume 48 (1961), November, page 732. Conclusion Sisters, we are grateful for your wonderful service to Relief Society, for the capable leadership you are giving to the work, for your magnificent accomplishments. We are thankful for your devotion to Relief Soziety and the righteousness of your lives. May the Lord bless you with happiness and success in your Relief Society labors, I sincerely pray. Relief Society Supports the The inauguration of the Home Teaching program in the Church, as of January 1, 1964, marks a significant step in the implementation of the developing program of the Church Correlating Committee. Relief Society supports the program fully. Being organized under the Priesthood and after a pattern of the Priesthood according to the laws of heaven, as the Prophet Joseph Smith and President John Taylor declared at the organization of Relief Society in March 1842, the work of Relief Society will continue to go forward at any given time as directed by the Priesthood. The stake and ward Relief Society work will continue, as in the past, to be directed by the respective Priesthood authorities in line with approved practices. Any changes in Relief Society procedures will be introduced in accordance with directives of the General Board at the direction of the General Authorities. From both the theology course on the Doctrine and Covenants and the social science course on Priesthood and Church Government, Relief Society members throughout the world are receiving a _ better understanding of the workings of the Church and the power of the Priesthood. They are also learning of their responsibilities as wives and mothers to support and encourage their husbands and sons in their Priesthood duties. They are mindful of the great blessings of the Priesthood which they share through the Priesthood bearers in their families, and where they have none, of the blessings which come to them from their activities in the Church as directed by the ward and stake or mission and branch Priesthood authorities. President McKay called attention at an initial meeting for Home Teaching representatives that The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is the only church that has divine authority by direct revelation. He said, '""We are speaking to a group of men today whose duties will be to help those who visit to perfect the saints, who will go about teaching 'for the perfecting of the saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ.' " President McKay also said in closing his remarks, "God bless you and give you inspiration in bringing the spirit of this new program, new assignment to the entire Church rejuvenating all our Ward Teaching with this Home Teaching Plan, that every individual will be brought to a consciousness of the Priesthood which comes direct from the Son of God." The General Board of Relief Society gives its full allegiance to the Home Teaching program and enlists the support and active cooperation of every Relief Society member. Dr. Kathleen Kenyon, a famed British archeologist, is directing a five-year program to uncover the remains of the Holy City. It was practically obliterated by the Romans one hundred years after Jesus warmed that not one stone upon another should be left of Jerusalem. A wall twenty-eight centuries old has been discovered, and bits of broken pottery tell many tales. Senator Maurine Neuberger, from Oregon, has written a book on smoking, to be published by PrenticeHall. She admits having been hard on "the public guardians whose failure to act courageously or decisively has left unchecked the epidemic rise in smoking-connected disease." Madame Herve (Nicole) Alphand, wife of the French Ambassador to the United States, is considered a model of fashion and elegance and has been called "the most charming hostess on Embassy Row." Nevertheless, she is a most devoted wife and mother. She says a wife should be a comfort and support to her husband, reassuring him and constantly renewing his faith in him- 824 Ramona W. Cannon self. Such faith, she believes, all men are inclined to lose occasionally in the fierce competition of modern life. A woman's place is at the side of her husband, being a true companion, she avers. Katherme Anne Porter, author of Ship of Fools, Pale Horse, Pale Rider, and other noted novels and novelettes, as well as many short stories, has been awarded the Emerson-Thoreau Medal by the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. She was also given an honorarium of $1,000, and the awards committee made the comment, "No _ living American is her equal." Dr. Eva J. Salber, of the Harvard University School of Public Health, recently conducted a survey of 6,810 students between fifteen and seventeen years of age, in the public schools of Newton, Massachusetts. The survey covered ninety-one pet cent of the enrollment in this age group. Dr. Salber found that the intelligence quotient (IQ) and the records of accomplishment were consistently much higher for the students, both boys and girls, who were nonsmokers. VOLUME N 'We thank thee, O God, for a Prophet To guide us in these latter days." Latter-day Saint women above all others can be grateful that they are members of The Church of Jesus Christ so that they are led by a prophet; can be thankful when their husbands hold the Priesthood and exercise its power in behalf of their families. A great to-do is made today of the changing world and, especially, of the changing role of women in today's world. Glib words are spoken of the new qualities and resources a woman needs to fulfill herself. To a Latter-day Saint these statements are loaded with the sophistries of men. It is true that the demands of the present civilization require more education and years of training, but basic qualities and characteristics of the human soul remain the same. The Lord is no respecter of persons and his children, in any of his dispensations, are judged by their thoughts and actions in line with the light of truth vouchsafed to them at the particular time in which they live. In this dispensation great and high, indeed, are the standards by which the members of the Church will be judged because of the light and truth which abounds. Journeys into space and conjectures as to whether or not a man can be placed on the moon or other heavenly bodies are of interest, but with man's present knowledge, no one, probably, can approach the knowledge which Abraham had of the heavens, for he was shown some of the Lord's handiwork by the Lord himself, and the laws of earth life remain unchanged. And so it is with the work of women today when economics and other pressures tend to force or beckon women into the labor market. The Latter-day Saint woman knows through the direction of the prophets that her fundamental vii Anna B. Hart Pearle M. Olsen Edith S.