What Mormonism Means to Me Lorinda Tortice As an activity in the Indian Student Placement Program of the Church, a Youth Conference open to Indian students in the program over fifteen years of age was held in April at Bountiful, Utah, prior to the return of the young people to their parents on the Indian reservations. Leadership abilities in speech, essay, talent, and display were demonstrated and awards of twenty-five dollars each, to be applied on their college tuition, were given to the winners. Printed below is the speech which won an award for Lorinda Tortice, a fifteenvear-old girl of the Apache tribe (Ed.). To me Mormonism is a way of life to be lived each and every hour of each and every day. Why am I a Mormon? Have you really thought for an answer to that question? Of course, it is a big one — it can well concern a person during his entire life. The time has come when President David O. McKay has charged every member of the Church with the responsibility of being a missionary, so it is more important today than ever before that we have the question clearly in mind, that we not only work out an answer to satisfy ourselves, but we must be prepared to answer all inquiries. "What do the Mormons believe?" "How are their teachings different from those of other churches?" "Are the Mormons Christians?" I hope if I am ever confronted with these questions, I will not have to stumble about and then say, "Well, I guess I'm up against it." Many of us are Mormons because our parents are. 'This is a good reason, but our parents cannot give us a testimony. We gain a testimony from our Heavenly Father through the Spirit of the Holy Ghost, but we must do our part first, by having a desire to know the truth, then, 828 through faith, diligent study, and prayer, our Heavenly Father makes the truth known to us. This is what Mormonism means to me. I was baptized in the same manner Jesus Christ himself was baptized, by immersion and receiving the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands from those in authority, meaning men holding the Holy Priesthood. I believe in modern revelation. I know that President David O. McKay is a true Prophet as was Joseph Smith. It does not sound logical to me that God would talk to the prophets of old, then seal the heavens and cease to guide men in these perilous times when we need direction as never before. I am a Mormon because I know that the gospel is God's plan to save his children, and it more perfectly satisfies all the desires, conditions, and needs of mankind than any other system of ethics or philosophy. Mormonism explains my origin, and The Book of Mormon is a history of my own people. How dear to my heart are this Book and Mor monism. Without them, my existence would be empty and motiveless. I know that if I follow the teachings of Mormonism, I will receive untold blessings. the Home