[WomansExponent | Vol24 | 1895 | March | Issue: 19 | Title: RED CROSS RELIEF WORK. | Author: Unknown]

RED CROSS RELIEF WORK.

	A LETTER received, March 5, by a mem-
ber of the American National Red Cross
Association from Miss Clara Barton, dated
Para, Constantinople, February 19th, tells
of the journey of the Red Cross party which
sailed January 22nd, and also contains the
following:
	“The cablegram sent to Minister Terrell
yesterday by Secretary Olney, and which I
trust was made public, was the outcome of
a call in the morning upon the Sublime
Porte in the person of its minister of foreign
affairs, which was in every way as agreea-
ble, cordial and satisfactory as it could have
been made in any country. Not only was
the fullest permission given for our entrance
into Armenia, but an active and generous
effort was displayed toward making our en-
deavors, our journeys, etc., safe and pleas-
ant, as easy as possible, and also as pro-
ductive of beneficial results as could be
wished.
	“Mr. Terrell was very much gratified
and seems very happy over our success, to

[Column 2]
which the state department and he con-
tributed so largely.
	“As soon as an outfit can be made and
passage secured, our men will start for the
desolated regions. It will be cold and ter-
ribly hard for them, but that is what they
came for. I have met several of the lead-
ing missionaries and other American gentle-
men here. It is hoped the massacres are
over, but it is of course uncertain. The
general feeling is that Russia has said
enough.
	“The distress and suffering through
want and sickness are described as being
both enormous and terrible. Our stops on
the journey at London, Paris, Geneva and
Baden were short, but very pleasant, and
so full of good feeling, cordiality and use-
fulness.”
	Miss Barton refers in the beginning of
the foregoing to the message cabled by
Minister Terrell on the 18th ult., saying
the Red Cross had been admitted and
guaranteed protection and that the gates of
charity are now open. Since then these
dispatches have announced that the Red
Cross party had left Zeitoun, where relief is
most urgent, by reason of its capture by the
Turkish army.

	The national Armenian relief committee
will send $10,000 to Constantinople. It is
stated by the committee that the distribu-
tion of money is now being made among
the Armenians and at present the greatest
obstacle to the work of relief is the lack of
funds rather than opposition on the part of
the sultan. Mr. Stephen E. Barton, of
Westerly, R. I., received a cable from Miss
Clara Barton at Constantinople, saying that
the Red Cross society shipped on Saturday
a large quantity of relief supplies to the in-
terior of Armenia to go by caravan by way
of Alexandretta, on the Mediterranean.
	Miss Barton has forwarded funds to Har-
poot, Sivas and Laruch, and the reports
from the interior indicate that the needs of
the suffering Armenians are increasing.


