[WomansExponent | Vol24 | 1895 | March | Issue: 19 | Title: APPRECIATION OF THE BALLOT. | Author: Unknown]

APPRECIATION OF THE BALLOT. 

	As the Legislature draws towards the
latter part of the session people generally
seem to become rather more interested, and
the members of both houses are apparently
anxious to use greater dispatch; it is strange
that women have not manifested a deeper
earnestness in the matters pending before
this representative body of men. Because
women were not eligible to vote or be voted
for previous to the Proclamation for State-
hood, women should not show any lack of
enthusiasm in subjects so essential to the
community as some that are being brought
before this body of law-makers, nor should
they be unmindful of the responsibility
resting upon them because of the privileges
of equal citizenship. There are those
who fully expect that at another election wo-
men will be candidates for the Legislature and
other offices in the gift of the people, and
can they possibly anticipate that this can
be brought about without any sort of prep-
aration, any knowledge of what is neces-
sary to do beforehand? The apathy and in-
difference which seemingly exists is not
encouraging, and men need not fear
women who think the only thing required
of them is to talk.
	Education in these public matters is as
essential as in any other direction, and
there is no better place to learn than where
people put into practice the knowledge of
public matters they have acquired through
years of actual experience in affairs of the
commonwealth.
	Certainly the women of Utah are not
lacking in appreciation of this good gift
“The franchise,” and they are no doubt
proud of the fact that a woman was elected
Chief Clerk of the Senate, and why not
publicly acknowledge the honor by going
to the Legislature at least occasionally as
interested visitors, and listeners. Mrs.
Pardee certainly feels desirous of having
the presence of women in the Senate Cham-
ber, and the President of the Senate has
been most gracious and kind to those who
have attended, and all the members with-
out exception have looked kindly and ap-
provingly upon lady visitors, and if one
may judge from their manners are very
pleased that the women take notice of their
deliberations.
	If there are some women too busy and
positively cannot go, now and then for an

[Column 2]
hour or two to look on and listen, there are
many who have the time if they could only
have the inclination; for when one recalls
how women poured into the Constitutional
Convention day after day when the subject
of equal suffrage was being discussed there,
one wonders if they really appreciate the
ballot now it has been obtained. It is to be
hoped women will make a study of govern-
ment at home and wherever and whenever
there is an opportunity; but judging from
the little interest taken in this very impor-
tant Legislature, one cannot but feel they
are losing time to say the least.
	The Salt Lake County W. S. A. Mrs.
Kate Groesbeck President, the Reaper’s
Club and the Woman’s Press Club are all
taking hold of such subjects as will help in
the welfare of the state, and it is ardently
hoped that in other Counties the same kind
of study is being taken hold of with quite
as much energy.
	It is gratifying to know that the Govern-
or of Utah is consistently carrying out the
equal suffrage idea in the appointments he
is making on State Boards of public insti-
tutions. On the Board of the institute for
the Deaf and Dumb recently appointed by
Governor Wells, out of five persons two
women were made members Mrs. Harriet
F. Emerson of Ogden and Dr. Martha
Hughes Cannon of this City,
	The Boston Standard of Feb. 13 speak-
ing of the young Governor of the new State
of Utah says:
	“The advocates of equal rights have
indeed good reason to feel encouraged
and stimulated, not only in the fact that
with the admission of Utah a woman suf-
frage state is added to the Union, but also
that a man of integrity, of character and of
broad liberal principles, who recognizes the
value of an intelligent woman’s vote,
occupies the position of Governor of the
new State.”
	“The advanced attitude of the
residents of Utah in respect to the wo-
man question is an example of enlighten-
ment that reflects greatly to the credit of
the people in that western state and bespeaks
a high degree of moral and intellectual
force that might well be emulated by the in-
habitants of other localities in this Repub-
lic.”
	Closing the article of a column and a
half is the following.
	“Surely the women of the East
may well congratulate the women of
the State of Utah upon their representa-
tive in the gubernatorial chair. Would
that all men in public offices might be given
as fair a character.


