[Vol42 | April 1955 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Article | Title: And Ye | Author: Christensen]
> sa And Ye Shall Find" Beth G. Christensen qT? Was the usual hurry around our house. Relief Society work meeting always means lots of planning and preparation. I had set the table and fixed the lunches the night before in order to save the valuable morning time. Everything was going along very well—extra well in fact. My next-door neighbor had offered to keep the two younger children, which would relieve me of their care. I am the second counselor and in charge of work meeting. This meeting promised to be an exceptionally busy one, so with the children taken care of, I could surely do more. With my husband off to work, my older children on their way to school, and the younger ones settled next door, I was ready to go. I rushed in to gather up my things. I had just enough time to go the ten miles to the chapel. Suddenly, I realized my car keys were nowhere to be found. I searched the usual places again and again without success. I had to be there! I had to have those keys. My first feeling was one of complete bewilderment, but then I decided to ask our Heavenly Father's help. I rose from my knees and walked straight to a set of keys we had not seen for weeks. I thanked the Lord for this blessing, and hurried on my way. How marvelous it is to know that we have help so close and so freely given! Do we appreciate it? Do we use this help as often as we should, not only for the big problems of life, but for the little things as well? Our Heavenly Father meant it when he said: "Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you" (Matthew 7:7). Photograph courtesy Josephine Brower Heirloom Quilt Presented to lNissionartes at Carthage Jail Josephine Brower 6 hie beautiful quilt was not originally owned by Latter-lay Saint people. A pioneer family settled in Dlinois in 1819, at which time a daughter made the quilt. It was hand-woven, hand-dyed, and hand-quilted, with thousands and thousands of smallest stitches. The quilt remained as a precious heirloom in the family for many years, finally being handed down to Bessie and Lillian Geyer of Fort Madison, Iowa, from their great-great-aunt Ann Kar. On June 21, 1954, Mrs. Bessie Geyer visited the old Carthage jail. The story she heard impressed her so much that she was prompted to return the following week with her family. It was then that she presented this quilt to the missionaries at Carthage jail, Elder Richard A. Brower, and Sister Josephine Brower. As recipients of this treasure, the missionaries feel that the quilt adds much to the bedroom of the old jail, in which the Prophet Joseph Smith and his brother Hyrum sealed their testimony with their blood. + Friendship s G. Arden Gene Romolo Two must create friendship's garden, It takes two to make it grow; Each must aid its cultivation Through the years, its seeds resow; Love and patience must keep vigil To destroy intruding weeds Lest there be no perfect blossoms To produce renewing seeds. Page 264 Green Willows CHAPTER 3 Deone R. Sutherland Synopsis: Lillian and her friend Patricia are very much interested in the affairs of Pat's three unmarried aunts — Agnes, Margaret, and Karen. The two older sisters are schoolteachers, and Karen is _preparing to follow the same profession. Lillian and Pat, however, cannot understand why Margaret should not marry her neighbor Dr. Turner, who is a former suitor of hers and now a widower. Lillian and Pat and Pat's parents are invited to the Diffendorf home for dinner. Another guest is John Alder, the new director of the summer. Theater in Green Willows. It appears that John and Karen have met before. AT'S father carved the meat, Pp and Pat and I helped serve and clear the table. Karen was sitting next to John Alder, and she kept trying to get up to help, but Agnes said we could do it fine. I don't think she talked to the director at all, though he said two or three things to her that I couldn't hear. Margaret said that yes, she'd heard about Dr. 'Turner's son coming home for good now. Yes, she had meant to be at Sunday School. This was the first Sunday she'd missed in she didn't know how long. Yes, it was certainly nice that they were going to be together all the time now. 'Two winters apart were too much even though they did visit at Christmas and in the summers. No, she hadn't heard whom they were going to get for a steady housekeeper. Well, it was partly that Gwennie's mother hadn't been able to part with the boy after she'd lost her daughter. Yes, everyone could understand wanting to hold onto something that was Gwennie's. Gwennie had never had good health from the time she married, Agnes said. 'The conversation went on and on while we ate. Pat and I didn't say anything, but we did prick up our ears when they talked about the plays that were going to be presented at the straw-hat theater that summer. "Pm trying to persuade Karen to come down and take a part, but she won't co-operate,' said John Alder to Margaret. "Oh, I'm afraid I've too much to do with my music this summer," Karen said hurriedly. "Drama _ is Margaret's field, really, not mine." "You were just passing the time away when you took those drama classes last winter?" John asked lightly. "Yes,"' said Karen in a low voice. "That is, I was filling hours. I really enjoyed them, you know. I'm going to be teaching this winter. I have lots of obligations, Dr. Alder, that I have to repay." "What obligations?" Agnes asked. "You certainly have not. You're going into teaching because you love it, Karen. You don't have anything to repay." John Alder broke his roll. "Why don't you come back for your Master's Degree, Karen? Didn't you say once that's what you wanted to do?" "Well, I do, but after I've saved enough money." Page 265 266 "There are teaching fellowships," John Alder persisted. Pat's mother looked up. "Oh, are you interested in going on to school, Karen? Daddy's business is doing so well now, we can repay Agnes and help you a little, too." "Please," said Karen, "I really don't know what I want to do now. I thought I knew what I had to do, or ought to do. Now I don't even know what I want todo " She stopped helplessly. "For goodness sakes, Karen, do talk sensibly," Agnes said. "Mashed potatoes, Margaret?" "Yes, Pll get them." Margaret got up and left the room. She brought back the bow! Filled again with whipped potatoes with butter yellowing the dips. "Do what you want to do, Karen," Margaret said. "That's the best way in the long run. "Of course," said Agnes. "That's what we all do. You'll make a wonderful teacher, Karen. You have no idea the satisfaction one can get out of teaching children." "It must almost compare with teaching one's own children," said John Alder. "Well, I wouldn't know about that," said Agnes, looking at him in some surprise, "but it is a very satisfying profession as you should know yourself." "Oh, I quite agree," said John Alder. F'TER dinner we sat at the long dining-room table cracking softshelled walnuts and eating them. Pat's father had leaned back comfortably in his chair. At last Aunt Agnes said we really should go into the parlor. Karen could play a little RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1955 music for them. Pat's mother and Aunt Agnes and Aunt Margaret cleared the table. Karen, after one short selection, hovered between the kitchen and dining room. John Alder came to the door of the dining room. "If you won't play any more, Karen, won't you show me the garden. I'm really very interested in seeing the grounds around here." 'Are there enough helping in the kitchen?" Karen asked. "More than enough," Margaret said. "Run along." "I''d love to, then," Karen agreed. "The gardens are interesting to us because we have kept the original patterns and flower beds as outlined by our great-grandparents." Pat and I went out and sat on the back porch. We were too full to move. Why did dishes always follow every meal? But no one asked us to help. I "What do you say we walk in front and see if Phil's out in his yard?" Pat asked. "Okay," I said. We went around the corner of the house. Karen was disappearing up a path toward the little wooden gate that led to the orchard. John Alder followed, almost touching her arm. "See," he was saying, "all your arguments, your imaginary obligations, everything disappeared like magic at dinner. Why are you so fearful about admitting to yoursap " His words disappeared into lower tones when he caught sight of us. We went up the front walk. The Turner house was very similar to the old Diffendorf house. It GREEN WILLOWS was large, with rounded cupolas and long porches. 'Trees crowded the yards. No one seemed to be out.