[Vol42 | April 1955 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Article | Title: An | Author: Gould]
[An Understanding Heart Anne S. W. Gould]

Turn the box over and cut out two oblong places from the bottom, one inch wide and a little longer than the spools. Place one spool with the pipe cleaner through the hole at the front of the box so half of the spool sticks out underneath the box. Now pull the pipe cleaner up over the box and fasten at the top. This makes the front wheels. Now do the same thing at the other end of the box with the other spool for the back wheels. Glue the bright button onto the front end of the box for a headlight. A red button is best. Now your engine is finished. CUT OUT FOR WHEELS BOX a: PIPE CLEANER f 'i WY soot To make the cars, cut out the places in the bottoms of the boxes for the wheels. Then punch holes in the sides of the box a half inch from the bottom of the box and just above the cut-out places in the bottoms. Put the spools with the pipe cleaners run through them into the cut-out places, then pull up the pipe cleaners and insert the ends into the holes that you punched in the sides of the box, then fasten the ends together inside of the box, and the cars are finished. Page 260 She Ruby-Shroated Hummingbird Roy B. McLain T= hidden, sequestered touch-me-nots were in the glimmering height of their inevitable glory. Their extensive seed pods were intermittently snapping open at the slightest touch. Suddenly, there came a zooming, sinister noise and a flash of dazzling color. With grace and swerveless poise, a tiny, ruby-throated hummingbird was thrusting its long bill into the delicate colored, speckled flowers. Its bill inflexively remained very rigid while the bird's body seemed to gracefully vibrate up and down. It could not have weighed more than half an ounce. It withdrew its bill, and with rapidly vibrating and rotating wings, it backed up, and like a helicopter, stood still, swaying from side to side, while it selected the next spicy flower from which to draw nectar. Its untiring wings rotated so fast that they appeared as a gray film; then it flew away' at a speed of at least sixty miles an hour. (This rate of speed enables it to spend its winters in the region of the Gulf Coast and Central America.) The hummingbird lit on the limb of the huge oak tree that shaded the touch-me-nots. What was this I saw? A tiny nest not an inch long! Two tiny, beautiful, and aggressive heads popped up and were fed by the parent by regurgitation. Instantly the father bird disappeared.: An examination of the cup-shaped nest revealed the fact that it was attached lengthwise on the limb, which caused the nest to take on an elongated appearance. The outside was made of lichens. The inside was composed of the softest material — like milkweed silk. A chicken hawk gave out its erratic cry, as it spied with its keen eye the tiny nest.