[Vol42 | April 1955 | Sequence: 06 | Category: General Feature | Title: 239 Editorial: Appreciation of the Gospel Velma N. Simonsen]
VOL.  42 
EDITORIAL 
APRIL  1955 
NO.  4 
xyippreciation  of  the  (gospel 
ly/fUCH  of  the  unhappiness  that 
prevails  in  the  world  today 
comes  from  an  ignorance  of  the  pur- 
pose of  life,  and  an  uncertainty  of 
that  which  awaits  us  after  this  life. 
In  these  times  of  great  calamity  that 
has  befallen  the  world,  when  the 
hearts  of  men  and  women  are  fail- 
ing them,  there  is  an  increasing 
need  for  comfort  and  guidance  from 
a  higher  source  than  earth  can  pro- 
duce, a  fuller  understanding  of  the 
purpose  of  earth  life,  and  an  in- 
creased hope  of  life  and  happiness 
after  death. 
How  highly  blessed  are  the  Latter- 
day  Saints,  as  a  people  who  have 
received  so  much  light  and  knowl- 
edge on  these  subjects  through  the 
channel  of  divine  revelation!  In  this 
respect,  if  in  no  other,  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  should  be  the  happiest, 
the  most  contented,  the  most  joy- 
ous, and  the  most  appreciative  of  all 
people  that  live;  for,  not  only  has 
the  knowledge  of  the  purpose  of  this 
earthly  existence  been  communicat- 
ed to  us,  but  we  have  had  revealed 
to  us  an  understanding  of  where  we 
came  from,  how  our  earth  life  can 
be  made  to  contribute  the  most  to 
our  own  happiness  here  and  here- 
after, and  also  much  knowledge  con- 
cerning our  future  estate,  and  how 
eternal  happiness  may  be  obtained. 
Everyone  is  see*king  for  happiness; 
it  is  said  to  be  the  goal  of  our  lives, 
our  life's  work,  indeed,  the  purpose 
Page  240 
of  our  being.  The  Book  of  Mor- 
mon prophet  Lehi  said  it  this  way: 
'\  .  .  men  are  that  they  might  have 
joy"  (2  Nephi  2:25).  But  the  world 
does  not  know  how  to  obtain  that 
joy.  In  order  to  obtain  happiness 
we  must  understand  and  abide  the 
laws  governing  it.  Again  we  are 
fortunate  in  having  modern-day  rev- 
elation, for  another  Book  of  Mor- 
mon prophet.  Alma,  gives  us  the 
law  upon  which  happiness  is  predi- 
cated. He  tells  us  that  there  is  no 
real  happiness  in  wickedness,  no 
real  enjoyment  in  sin  and  transgres- 
sion, that  the  only  source  of  real 
enjoyment  and  perfect  happiness  is 
in  the  observance  of  the  laws  of 
truth  and  righteousness.  Where 
Latter-day  Saints  are  not  enjoying 
the  peace  and  satisfaction  the  gos- 
pel is  designed  to  give  them,  the 
cause  is  generally  a  lack  of  apprecia- 
tion and  gratitude  for  these  bless- 
ings, which  result  in  a  failure  to 
render  obedience  to  the  command- 
ments of  the  Lord. 
It  is  well  for  us  to  review,  from 
time  to  time,  some  of  the  gifts  and 
blessings  of  the  restored  gospel,  as 
an  aid  in  the  cultivation  of  a  proper 
feeling  of  appreciation  and  gratitude 
to  our  Father  for  the  blessings  and 
privileges  which  we  enjoy  as  a  peo- 
ple. Blessed  indeed,  are  we  who 
know  for  an  absolute  certainty  that 
God  has  inspired  prophets  and 
apostles  on  the  earth,  to  enlighten

EDITORIAL  241 
and  guide  his  people  through  all  the  joy.    But  in  order  to  receive  any  of 
vicissitudes  of  life;  blessed  indeed,  these  gifts  and  blessings,  we  must 
are  we  to  know  that  these  di\'inely  accept  corresponding  duties:  to  live 
appointed   men   will   be   instructed  m  obedience  to  the  revealed  gospel 
and  prepared  for  the  events  that  are  of  Jesus  Christ.    If  we  are  true  Lat- 
to   transpire   before   the   great   and  ter-day  Saints  we  will  always  keep 
dreadful  dav  of  the  coming  of  the  before  us  the  recognized  standards 
Lord,  of  which  glorious  event  the  of  religious  and   moral  life,  which 
present   sorrows   and   confusion    of  modern   revelation   has   set   up   for 
the  world  are  but  the  predicted  hi-  our  guidance.     Strict  adherence  to 
dications.  these   standards   will   make   us   the 
With  this  assurance,  the  faithful  happiest  and  the  most  secure  people 
Latter-day    Saint    can    pursue    life  on  earth. 
with  a  sense  of  peace  and  security.         Let  us  each  strive  to  be  worthy 
And  as  an  additional  blessing,  spiri-  of  the  great  blessings  of  the  gospel 
tual  light  and  guidance  are  not  con-  which  have  been  given  to  us  in  such 
fined    to   a   few    chosen    men   who  abundance    and    to    show    our    ap- 
stand  at  the  head  of  the  Church,  preciation  by  accepting  the  responsi- 
Every  member  who  has  obeyed  the  bilities  that  rest  upon  us  to  live  the 
laws  of  the  gospel  has  received  the  gospel,    thereby    gaining    happiness 
gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  for  his  own  here  and  hereafter, 
light  and  guidance  into  peace  and  — V.  N.  S. 
uj/ue-Ujiossomed  ^acaranda 
Elsie  M.  Strachan
