[Vol42 | April 1955 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Fiction | Title: Jessie | Author: Hobbies]
[Jessie Evans Smith — Artist of Unusual Hobbies]
yessie  ibvans  Smith  —  Artist  of   LLnusual  uiobb 
les 
SISTER  Jessie  Evans  Smith,  wife  of  President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve,  is  \\idel\-  known  for  her  beautiful  contralto  \oiee,  and  for  her 
graciousness  in  sharing  this  gift  with  others,  ^hmy  are  surprised  to  learn  that  Sister 
Smith  also  finds  time  for  several  interesting  and  useful  hobbies,  particularly  various 
t\pes  of  needlework. 
In  the  lixing  room  of  Sister  Smith's  apartment  is  a  beautiful  maroon  rug  that  was 
wo\cn  on  a  frame  and  looks  like  an  oriental.  Sister  Smith  used  her  own  original  design 
and  her  own  color  scheme  of  gold,  brown,  blue,  and  fuchsia  on  the  maroon  background. 
A  lovely  needlepoint  screen,  purchased  in  France,  and  stamped  only  in  black 
and  white,  was  made  by  Sister  Smith  in  soft  colors  of  her  own  choosing.  She  has  many 
other  articles  of  needlepoint  and  petit  point,  and  has  crocheted  three  tablecloths,  two 
bedspreads,  and  five  afghans. 
Her  latest  achic\ement  is  a  beautiful  and  unusual  quilt.  After  observing  a  quilt  made 
from  pieces  of  girls'  silk  dresses,  with  a  few  men's  ties  mixed  in,  she  conceixed  the  idea 
of  making  a  quilt  entireh'  of  men's  ties.  With  this  in  mind,  she  started  collecting  ties 
from  male  members  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  and  succeeded  in  obtaining  most  of  the 
ties  from  this  source.  The  ties  were  first  carefully  laundered,  and  then  Sister  Smith 
ingeniousl}-  made  her  own  design.  Finding  in  her  collection  only  fourteen  ties  the  same 
size,  she  used  these  in  the  center,  then  worked  skilfully  from  the  sides  and  ends  into 
the  center,  forming  the  unique  pattern.  All  of  the  ties  were  first  sewed  onto  a  sheet, 
then  she  featherstitched  around  each  tie.  The  South  Eighteenth  Ward  Relief  Society,  of 
which  Sister  Smith  is  a  member,  was  asked  to  do  the  quilting,  using  maroon  satin  as  a 
background.  Under  the  expert  direction  of  Sister  Emma  Imlay,  quilting  chairman,  the 
sisters  made  an  indi\idual  design  in  each  tie.  Sister  Smith  declared  the  quilting  to  be 
a  perfect  job,  and  then  she  worked  a  featherstitch  around  the  entire  quilt  to  make  just 
the  right  finish. 
243