[Vol42 | April 1955 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Fiction | Title: Make a | Author: Kent]
[Make a Train Ruth K. Kent]
Ruth  K.  Kent 
WANT  to  make  a  train  of  matchboxes?  All  you  need  in  addition  to  the  matchboxes 
are  half  a  dozen  empty  spools  of  equal  size,  a  few  pipe  cleaners,  and  one  bright 
button. 
To  make  the  engine,  use  the  outside  of  the  match  box,  the  part  that  the  box  slides 
into,  and  the  box,  too.  F'irst  glue  one  of  the  empty  spools  upright  near  one  edge  of  the 
top  of  the  outside  box  (for  the  smoke  stack).  Now  turn  a  spool  down  behind  the  up- 
right spool  that  was  glued  to  the  top  of  the  box  (for  the  cab).  Pull  the  ends  of  the 
pipe  cleaner  down  around  the  sides  of  the  box  and  fasten  underneath. 
PIPE  CLEAMER 
\ 
*  SPOOL 
BUTTOM 
\ZT^^ 
SPOOL 
ip=t; SPOOL 
WHEELS 
Now,  for  the  wheels,  run  pipe  cleaners  through  two  spools.  Turn  the  box  over  and 
cut  out  two  oblong  places  from  the  bottom,  one  inch  wide  and  a  little  longer  than  the 
spools.  Place  one  spool  with  the  pipe  cleaner  through  the  hole  at  the  front  of  the  box 
so  half  of  the  spool  sticks  out  underneath  the  box.  Now  pull  the  pipe  cleaner  up  over 
the  box  and  fasten  at  the  top.  This  makes  the  front  wheels.  Now  do  the  same  thing 
at  the  other  end  of  the  box  with  the  other  spool  for  the  back  wheels.  Glue  the  bright 
button  onto  the  front  end  of  the  box  for  a  headlight.  A  red  button  is  best.  Now  your 
engine  is  finished. 
CUT  OUT  FOR  WHEELS 
\^_^         \_^SPOOL 
To  make  the  cars,  cut  out  the  places  in  the  bottoms  of  the  boxes  for  the  wheels. 
Then  punch  holes  in  the  sides  of  the  box  a  half  inch  from  the  bottom  of  the  box  and 
just  above  the  cut-out  places  in  the  bottoms.  Put  the  spools  with  the  pipe  cleaners  run 
through  them  into  the  cut-out  places,  then  pull  up  the  pipe  cleaners  and  insert  the 
ends  into  the  holes  that  you  punched  in  the  sides  of  the  box,  then  fasten  the  ends  to- 
gether inside  of  the  box,  and  the  cars  are  finished. 
Page  260

MAKE  A  TRAIN  261 
PIPE  CLEANERS 
REAR  FRONT 
To  make  couplings  cut  the  pipe  cleaners  in  two.  Fold  one  of  the  pieces  so  the 
ends  are  together  and  push  the  ends  through  the  back  end  of  the  engine.  Reach  in- 
side under  the  spool  wheel  and  bend  the  ends  back  half  an  inch.  Bend  the  part  stick- 
ing out  up  to  make  a  hook.  Make  the  same  kind  of  loop  at  the  back  end  of  one  of 
the  cars.  At  the  front  end  of  the  cars,  push  the  two  folded  ends  of  the  pipe  cleaner 
through  and  bend  back  the  ends.  Make  a  loop  of  the  part  sticking  out  and  loop  it 
over  the  hook  made  at  the  back  end  of  the  engine  and  the  other  car.  (Milk  cartons  can 
also  be  used  in  place  of  matchboxes.) 
Now  your  train  is  ready  to  run  and  carry  a  lot  of  cargo. 
uL  uLandful  of  ^JUirt 
Vivian  CampheW  Work 
npAKE  a  handful  of  dirt,  feel  the  dampness  and  the  softness;  feel  the  life  in  it.  There, 
*       within  the  plain  brown  cover  of  the  earth,  lies  a  power  that  cares  for  all  living 
things. 
Get  a  wrinkled,  dried-up  little  seed,  and  take  a  handful  of  dirt  to  cover  it.  Water 
this  carefully  for  a  few  days,  and  watch,  watch  the  life  come  creeping  forth,  stretching 
bright  green  fingers  to  the  sun!  The  seed  and  the  water  cannot  do  this  without  the 
power  in  a  handful  of  dirt. 
Think  of  all  the  trees  and  plants  and  grasses  that  are  anchored  firmly  in  the  soil. 
All  mankind  depends  on  these  for  hfe.  Thus,  our  life,  too,  is  held  within  that  handful 
of  earth. 
More  than  life  comes  from  the  earth.  From  her  bosom  wells  forth  beauty — the 
beauty  of  outstretched  fields,  running  gold  and  green  and  copper  in  the  sun.  She  gives 
us  the  shadows  of  the  forests  and  the  rugged  upward  thrust  of  hills. 
Surely  beauty  comes  from  the  earth!  Her  themes  and  patterns  are  repeated  in 
every  story  picture  and  song.  All  the  loveliness  that  man  creates  he  fills  with  the 
beauty  he  sees  about  him,  the  beauty  that  comes  from  the  earth. 
Take  a  handful  of  earth  now.  Feel  the  softness,  the  beauty,  and  the  life  of  it. 
Within  this  handful  is  a  little  bit  of  yesterday,  a  part  of  today,  and  all  the  promise  of 
tomorrow.  The  soil  is  precious.  Guard  it  carefully,  use  it  wisely,  and  work  it 
reverently. 
■  ♦  ■ 
 
xyin    Linaerstanaing  uieart 
Anne  S.  W.  Gouid 
E  only  see  the  surface  of  people,  and  know  little  of  their  struggles,  tears,  and 
heartaches.     We  can  only  live  nobly  by  the  cultivation  of  compassion. 
w
