[Vol42 | April 1955 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Fiction | Title: Womans | Author: Cannon]
The  Resurrection 
Elder  George  O.  A /orris 
Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 
Thou  madest  man,  he  knows  not  why, 
lie  thinks  he  was  not  made  to  die. 
(Tennyson:  In  Memoriam). 
THE  
question  of  life  after  death 
has  always  been  one  with 
which  people  should  have 
been  seriously  concerned.  There  has 
been  much  speculation  about  it 
amoug  pagan  philosophers  and 
Christian  writers.  The  sure  and 
clear  auswer  is  to  be  found  in  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  as  taught  in 
the  primitive  Church  and  the  re- 
stored Church.  The  famous  Roman 
scholar  Pliny  probably  expressed  the 
prevailing  notion  of  his  time  and 
people  when  he  said: 
It  is  not  e\'en  within  the  power  of  God 
to  endo^^'  mortals  v^ith  an  eternal  existence 
and  recall  the  departed  from  the  gra\e. 
Pliny  lived  in  the  Roman  Empire 
from  the  year  23  a.d.  to  the  year 
79  when  he  was  destroyed  by  the 
sulphurous  vapor  coming  from  the 
eruption  of  Mount  Vesuvius  which 
overwhelmed  Herculaneum  and 
Pompeii.  What  he  had  with  such 
certainty  declared  God  could  not  do 
was  spoken  in  ignorance  of  the  fact 
that  when  he  was  ten  years  of  age 
there  came  forth  from  the  grave  in 
faraway  Palestine,  then  under  the 
dominion  of  the  Roman  Empire, 
Jesus  Christ,  who  was  the  first  fruits 
of  the  resurrection.  Having  had 
power  given  him  over  life  and  death, 
through  his  atonement  for  the  sins 
of  the  world  and  by  the  appointment 
of  the  Father,  he  instituted  the 
resurrection  from  the  dead.  By  this 
act  he  provided  that  every  soul  who 
Page  212 
had  died  from  the  beginning  of  time 
or  who  would  die  until  the  end  of 
time  would  be  resurrected  as  he  was 
resurrected.  Their  belief  or  unbe- 
lief, their  being  good  or  bad  matter- 
ing not.    The  Lord  declared: 
Marvel  not  at  this:  for  the  hour  is  com- 
ing, in  the  which  all  that  are  in  the  gra\e 
shall  hear  his  voice,  And  shall  come  forth; 
they  that  have  done  good,  unto  the  resur- 
rection of  life;  and  they  that  have  done 
evil,  unto  the  resurrection  of  damnation 
(John  5:28-29). 
The  resurrection  does  not  apply 
alone  to  man.  When  man  became 
mortal  through  the  fall,  the  earth 
and  the  life  on  the  earth  also  be- 
came mortal.  As  man  has  an  im- 
mortal spirit  so  has  the  earth,  and 
it  is  to  die  and  be  resurrected  as  thus 
revealed  through  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith: 
And  the  end  shall  come,  and  the  heaven 
and  the  earth  shall  be  consumed  and  pass 
away,  and  there  shall  be  a  new  heaven 
and  a  new  earth. 
For  all  old  things  shall  pass  away,  and 
all  things  shall  become  new,  even  the 
heaven  and  the  earth,  and  all  the  fulness 
thereof,  both  men  and  beasts,  the  fov\ls 
of  the  air,  and  the  fishes  of  the  sea;  And 
not  one  hair,  neither  mote,  shall  be  lost, 
for  it  is  the  workmanship  of  mine  hand 
(D.  &  C.  29:23-25). 
You  will  note  in  this  revelation 
that  what  the  poet  expressed  in  the 
couplet,  that  God  did  not  make 
man  just  to  die,  is  confirmed  in  this 
scripture,  which  clearly  implies  that

THE  RESURRECTION 
213 
this  restoration  occurs  because  it  is 
the  workmanship  of  God. 
npHERE  are  many  who  seem  to 
have  difficulty  in  beheving  that 
the  resurrection  consists  in  the  com- 
ing forth  of  the  physical  body,  the 
idea  being  that  if  a  body  does  come 
forth  it  must  be  a  body  without 
substance.  The  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  has  proclaimed  the  doctrine 
that  there  is  no  ''immaterial  mat- 
ter/' that  what  we  call  spirit  is  mat- 
ter, but  of  a  more  refined  nature 
than  the  matter  that  we  are  familiar 
with  in  this  life  (D.  &  C.  131:7)- 
When  the  Savior  appeared  to 
some  of  the  disciples  after  the  resur- 
rection they  were  afraid  of  him;  they 
thought  he  was  a  spirit.  He  calmed 
their  fears,  saying  to  them,  "a  spirit 
hath  not  flesh  and  bones,  as  ye  see 
me  have"  (Luke  24:39).  And  he  in- 
vited some  who  were  still  skeptical 
to  feel  of  his  hands  and  to  put  their 
hands  in  the  wounds  of  his  cruci- 
fixion. 
When  the  Savior  appeared  to  the 
people  on  this  continent  after  his 
resurrection,  he  invited  twenty-five 
hundred  of  them  to  do  the  same. 
Some  are  still  unwilling  to  accept 
this  demonstrated  truth  as  applying 
to  all  who  are  resurrected  and  argue 
that  a  bodily  resurrection  was  for 
him  alone.  But  showing  this  to  be 
an  error,  the  apostle  Paul  in  Philip- 
pians  3:21,  expressly  states,  referring 
to  the  resurrection  at  the  coming  of 
the  Savior: 
Who  shall  change  our  vile  body,  that 
it  may  be  fashioned  hke  unto  his  glorious 
body,  according  to  the  worlcing  whereby 
he  is  able  even  to  subdue  all  things  unto 
himself. 
So  the  teachings  of  the  gospel  are 
very  clear  that  the  resurrection  has 
to  do  with  the  bringing  forth  of  a 
purified,  cleansed,  and  immortalized 
body  of  flesh  and  bones  to  five  for- 
ever—those who  have  kept  the  com- 
mandments of  God  to  live  in  a  con- 
dition of  glory,  and  those  who  have 
rejected  the  gospel  to  live  in  a  con- 
dition of  banishment  from  the  pres- 
ence of  God. 
As  to  the  time  of  the  resurrection, 
there  was  the  first  resurrection 
marked  by  the  coming  forth  of  the 
saints  at  the  time  the  Lord  himself 
was  resurrected.  Looking  to  the  fu- 
ture, the  saints  and  the  just  are  to 
arise  to  meet  him  when  he  shall 
come  again  to  the  earth  at  the  be- 
ginning of  the  millennium.  The 
resurrection  of  the  wicked  will  not 
take  place  until  the  end  of  the 
world.  Referring  to  this  first  resur- 
rection of  the  future,  this  is  given: 
And  then  shall  the  heathen  nations  be 
redeemed,  and  they  that  knew  no  law 
shall  have  part  in  the  first  resurrection; 
and  it  shall  be  tolerable  for  them  (D.  &  C. 
45:54)- 
And  after  this  another  angel  shall  sound, 
which  is  the  second  trump;  and  then 
Cometh  the  redemption  of  those  who  are 
Christ's  at  his  coming;  who  have  received 
their  part  in  that  prison  which  is  prepared 
for  them,  that  they  might  receive  the 
gospel,  and  be  judged  according  to  men 
in  the  flesh  (D.  &  C.  88:99). 
The  time  and  glory  pertaining  to 
the  resurrection  are  clearly  explained 
in  the  76th  and  88th  sections  of  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants.  The  ques- 
tion is  sometimes  raised  as  to  the 
resurrection  of  the  sons  of  perdition 
who  are  referred  to  in  these  sections. 
Verse  32,  section  88,  thus  describes 
their  coming  forth: 
And  they  who  remain  shall  also  be 
quickened;  nevertheless,   they  shall  return

214 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— APRIL  1955 
again  to  their  own  place,  to  enjoy  that 
which  they  are  wilhng  to  receive,  because 
they  were  not  wilhng  to  enjoy  that  which 
they  might  ha\e  received. 
'T'HE  Lord  is  explicit  in  stating 
that  all  shall  come  forth.  So, 
through  the  atonement  of  Jesus 
Christ,  comes  the  renewal  of  the 
earth  and  the  renewal  of  life  upon 
it.  Death  and  the  grave  are  over- 
come, and  all  are  raised  to  immor- 
tality when  the  body  and  spirit  do 
not  again  separate,  made  so  clear  in 
this  scripture: 
Now,  this  restoration  shall  come  to  all, 
both  old  and  young,  both  bond  and  free, 
both  male  and  female,  both  the  wicked 
and  the  righteous;  and  even  there  shall 
not  so  much  as  a  hair  of  their  heads  be 
lost;  but  every  thing  shall  be  restored  to 
its  perfect  frame,  as  it  is  now,  or  in  the 
body,  and  shall  be  brought  and  be  ar- 
raigned before  the  bar  of  Christ  the  Son, 
and  God  the  Father,  and  the  Holy  Spirit, 
which  is  one  Eternal  God,  to  be  judged 
according  to  their  works,  whether  they  be 
good  or  whether  they  be  evil. 
Now,  behold,  I  have  spoken  unto  you 
concerning  the  death  of  the  mortal  body, 
and  also  concerning  the  resurrection  of 
the  mortal  body.  I  say  unto  you  that 
this  mortal  body  is  raised  to  an  immortal 
body,  that  is  from  death,  even  from  the 
first  death  unto  life,  that  they  can  die  no 
more;  their  spirits  uniting  with  their 
bodies,  never  to  be  divided;  thus  the
