[Vol42 | April 1955 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: Cancer | Author: Munsell]
[Cancer— A Quiz That May Save Your Life Sandra Munsell]

Cancer Society ANSWERS QUESTIONS An uncontrolled growth 0 d through the body, it in What is cancer? Many types cam be cured, but only d treated early. E cured? Are discovered an Can cancer b octor who has avail able many How can cancet be discovered in time? By yout d diagnostic tests. What is the American Cancer Society? The only national voluntary agency which fights cancet by research, education, and service to cancer's victims. M dying of It helped save an American fro average of every seven minWhat has it accomplished? I cancer on an utes last yeat. Does that mean it has solved the Unfortunately, 10- Despite the advances made, more than 235,000 Americans Wi die of cancet this year. Cancer problem? Ar health examinations Yes. By having regul by contributing [0 the Can I help to prevent this tragedy? Yourself. And American Cancet Society. I may some day save your For research tha d for helping cancer' s contribution be life, for education, a victims. What will my used for? N's cruelest enemyGive to the American Strike back at cancer, ma Cancer Society. __ eee SF 'riendship Elsie Sim Hansen f frjendship, Page 244 Steak for Thursday Rosa Lee Lloyd RISTEEN McCarthy _ put C Tommy in his high chair and tied a bib around his neck. "Mulk!"" he crooned as his little hands went around the cup she handed to him. He gulped rapturously. "Just like your daddy," she observed, glancing at 'Tom as he sat contentedly eating his bacon and eggs. "Give your daddy enough to eat and a place to sleep, and he crows with delight. He likes to live in a rut. Even when he has a chance, he won't get out of it!" Tom put his fork down with a little sigh. 'The smile went away from his thin, Lincolnesque face. "Gaeta" He reached for her hand, but she balled it into a little fist. 'Tom had to learn, she told herself with a determined shrug, that he couldn't kiss away every argument they had. He always counted on her love and the warm touch of him to melt her down like maple sugar. But this time she was going to hold out if it took all summer, as General Grant once said. Or was it General Lee? Cris was never too sure about American history. She was much better in arithmetic, even if she did get a little mixed up in her budget. 'Now look," she persisted, "your Aunt Julia has left us her house on Circle Drive. It's ours, every lovely inch of it. Your cousin Willa gets most of the furniture, and I'm glad because she loves all that old teakwood and those oriental rugs. I'm not the tvpe for teakwood." Tom pushed his chair away from the table, unwound his long legs, and stood up. "And I'm not the type for a mansion on Circle Drive!" he almost shouted. "I'm a hard-working commercial artist, a nine-to-five guy. You knew that when you married me. I can't afford to own a home on Circle Drive!" Cnisteen's smile was a nice combination of wisdom and_ supplication. "But you do own one, Tom McCarthy. A very beautiful home just a little way from Verny Sherman's. 'Think how wonderful! J can visit her every day. She and Arch entertain every night. She'll surely invite us when we live on the Drive. Just imagine going to one of Verny's parties!" Tom groaned and sat down as though the thought was too much for him. "Yes. Imagine. Me in my old tux I had in college and you in a budget formal from Karbecks!" Cristeen glared at him. "TI can get along in a budget frock... If I have to!" His eyes had that haunted, hardpressed look that Cristeen dreaded. Then he demanded, "But will you tell me how we can live on Circle Drive and still eat three times a day?" Her voice chided him. "There you go," she said, "utterly earthy. Always thinking of food instead of counting the stars." "Mulk!") Tommy yelled and Page 245 246 banged his chair table with the empty cup. Tom looked at the baby and his heavy brows were bushy points. "See what I mean?" he countered. Qugteny put Tommy's cereal in a bowl and handed him a spoon. "The house was a gift, Tom," she went on. "Your Aunt Julia must have wanted us to live there or she wouldn't have willed it to us." Tom shook his head. "I can't believe Aunt Julia was that stupid! She knew what my salary was. How did she figure we could furnish a ten-room house since she left the furniture to Willa...?" "Only the teakwood and the rugs." Cristeen was eager. "There are a lot of old pieces Willa wouldn't have. We can redecorate them." Tom got up again and began to pace back and forth. "Did she think I could take care of. That threetiered sunken garden and cut that two-acre lawn after I got home from work?" "She counted on me, too," Cristeen consoled him. "The last time I went to see Aunt Julia I told her how much I liked her home." He stopped pacing and glowered at his wife. "You didn't tell Aunt Julia you wanted to live there?" he questioned thickly. "Of course not.. Ly 2" Tom tossed his hands up. His eyes were bleak. "Tf she had only left us money, instead. Then we could have bought that little place out in Or-. Not exactRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1955 chard Bend and had money left over " he sighed. "Sleep money I call it. The kind that gives a fellow like me a little cushion of security so he can go to sleep at night." Cristeen met his glance and her eyes had fierce, challenging lights in them. "Security!" she repeated. "You're making me hate that word, 'Tom McCarthy. At least you're making me hate what that word means to you—a safe little rut whether your wife is happy or not." Tom held her shoulders with firm, steady hands. "Listen, honey," he said, "secutity is what I do want for you and Tommy and for more children. Let's sell that house on Circle Drive. We can get a good buy at Orchard Bend. Some of the gang from the office live out there. You remember Sid Garns and Buff Hatch?" Cristeen did remember them. Nice enough fellows in their middle twenties, with nice enough wives who were willing to settle down in a nice enough rut. But that wasn't what she wanted. "They like it out there!"