Report and Official Instructions General President Belle S. Spafford [Address Delivered at the Annual General Relief Society Conference, October 4, 1951] E are grateful for the growth of Relief Society as evidenced by the increased number of ward and branch societies. At the close of 1950 there were 2,981 such organizations (just. Nineteen below the 3,000 mark), an increase of 143 over the previous year. In 1950 there were five new stake organizations created, one new mission, the West Central States, and the Central Pacific Mission was combined with the Hawaiian. "I'wenty-eight stake boards have been reorganized and twelve missions. We acknowledge with gratitude the contributions to the growth of Relief Society made by past officers, and extend to those of you who are now filling the positions, our sincere best wishes for happiness and success in the work to which you have been called. Missions The foreign missions continue to show steady growth in membership, with a broadening development of the Relief Society program. Membership The society now has a membership of 126,550, an increase of 4,640 over 1949. 'The increase of Relief Society members in the missions exceeded the increase in number of Latter-day Saint families, while in the stakes the increase in members did not keep pace with the increase in number of Latter-day Saint families. Page 818 It is my opinion that a considerable proportion of the unenrolled Latter-day Saint women are the young mothers. I make an especial appeal in behalf of these young women. 'They so need the influence, the strength, the direction in rearing their children that can come > to them from Relief Society. Some wards are almost exclusively young couples, buying homes, rearing children, meeting the strains of modern social and economic life. 'These young women need the fortification offered by Relief Society and the rich association with our choice, experienced Relief Society members. Within the limits of reasonableness and good judgment, make possible their attendance at meetings. For example, it would not be out of line with Handbook instructions to adjust the meeting hour from afternoon to morning or evening, if the convenience of the greatest number of the sisters of the ward so directed. Be tolerant of young mothers if they bring children who may be a bit restless, or if their attendance is, of necessity, somewhat irregular. Encourage them to take part. There is so much we may learn from them, and they need the outlet provided by Relief Society for the expression of their talents and the application of the splendid training which most of them have received. Bear in mind that Relief Society membership goals are not set high in order that we may boast of a REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS society large in numbers, but that we may touch the hearts, enrich the lives, strengthen the hands, direct along Church approved paths, all Latter-day Saint women. Average Attendance The percentage of members represented by the average attendance at regular meetings during 1950 was 34.01, am increase of 1.64 over 1949. While we are grateful for increases in average attendance figures, we remind you again we do not wish them at a cost of ill-considered dropping of names from membership rolls or of refusing to enroll women who cannot attend or whose attendance may necessarily be irregular. In view of the large number of Latter-day Saint women still unenrolled in Relief Society, and because of the increasing number of our members now being employed, which is bound to affect attendance, we suggest that stake presidents encourage ward presidents to make definite plans for the forthcoming season to deal with these problems. 'There is no substitute for personal visits; membership and attendance committees might well be appointed. Enlist the talents of inactive women for work meeting activities, enlarge Singing Mother choruses by drawing in women with musical talent and interests, evaluate the quality of regular meetings. See that social activities are attractive and that they reach out to include potential as well as enrolled members. Educational Program The educational courses offered by the society apparently are well Relief Society 819 received by the members. There are 10,018 class leaders engaged in teaching the courses, an increase of goo over 1949. Book of Mormon Reading Program Yesterday the