The first essential in our attempt to add zest to cooking, after the inclination, is a variety of cook books and recipes. This does not mean that we must hasten forthwith to invest in such articles. Most of us have at least one good cook book which is most useful but which does not sufficiently stimulate the imagination. A very easy way to obtain the desired aids to our cook book is to clip and send in the coupons attached to the advertisements found in the larger magazines. These advertisements concern endless things, shortenings, cheese, bananas, and innumerable varieties of canned goods. In return we receive little booklets of recipes which are mines of valuable information. Another way we may obtain extremely useful cook books is by cutting those pages which contain recipes and menus from the magazines which feature household sections. These pages can be stitched into very handy books. Not only are such magazines a source of splendid suggestions on the preparation of food but they also contain pictures of great practical worth. These pictures of various foods and dishes, accompany the articles or illustrate advertisements and indicate the acme RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of perfection in the appearance of prepared foods. Such pictures serve as models toward which to work for when the food we prepare equals in appearance these illustrations we have accomplished a creation which may well be classed among the works of art.
It is possible to dress our food up in such fashion as would do credit to any famous chef. This, of course, requires the expenditure of time and effort but inasmuch as we must prepare the food anyway it is far better to put forth more energy, take more time and obtain a result from which we can derive intense satisfaction. We can be physically tired and mentally weary to the point where the prospect of preparing the next meal is almost appalling but if right at that moment we find a recipe for a dish we have never tried before the effect is surprising. Interest and enthusiasm replace disinclination and lassitude and we hasten to create a new masterpiece. This, however, is not the only source of satisfaction resulting from the time and energy we expend. Every mother desires to make the daily gathering of her little clan worth while and every mother will also appreciate the homage of a grateful family for her efforts to add interest to the food. These before mentioned cook books are not valuable alone for the suggested new things to cook but they are a necessary aid to our own ingenuity and creative ability. Just to sit down and try to think up something unusual for dinner is a wellnigh hopeless task but if we sit down and quickly scan the pages of our recipe booklets, we soon have ideas for several splendid meals. Of course, practically everything we would particularly like to make will call for one or more ingredients we do not have, but seldom, if ever, THREE MEALS A DAY should we let that hinder us. This is where our own originality comes in. If we do not have the things the recipe calls for, well, what have we? Let's use that instead. There is no law against making up recipes of our own; all we need is the general idea. It is truly surprising the delicious things that can be created out of the most ordinary bits of food that we just happen to have about. A little left over fruit, plus a simple custard, served in a sherbet glass with a topping of whipped cream and garnished with a bit of gay colored fruit "fished" out of the preserve jar and we have a delicious and attractive dessert. This idea can be extended to create all sorts of really good desserts so very easily and quickly. In searching through the cook book one may see something like the following:
Lemon Pudding 2 cups water. 4 eggs, separated. 1/2 cup sugar. Grated rind and juice of 1 lemon.
Cook in a double boiler until thick; add beaten whites, cool and serve with whipped cream. Surely simple enough, but perhaps one doesn't have a lemon. Then why not use two cups of fruit juice, any kind one may have will do in place of the water and lemon. If eggs are scarce use only two and thicken the juice. This simple pudding has unlimited possibilities. It may be served in a gay dish with sliced fruit or nuts, with whipped cream, caramel or any other sauce. Crushed fruits may be added during the cooking, or it may be packed in salt and ice or frozen in the refrigerator. 229
In the preparation of salads the clever cook has endless opportunities to create. Delightful suggestions can always be found but she can invent equally delightful ones herself with the things she may have on hand. Cottage cheese is often recommended with sliced tomatoes, cabbage, pimentoes or peppers but will do equally well with diced boiled eggs, any sort of pickles, chopped meat, peaches, pears, or what can you think of? Raw grated carrots are frequently combined with cabbage, nuts, turnips, etc., but no more delicious or easier salad can be made than by grinding the carrots through the food chopper and adding to them a few spoonfuls of preserved apricots or canned, stoned pie cherries. An inventive person plus a little cheese and most anything can be created. Cheese can be a redeeming feature to most any otherwise rather flat dishes. It adds a festive touch to potato dishes and is almost indispensable with tomatoes and eggs. Add it to beans, fish or meat to make a most appetizing loaf. All sorts of combinations can be made for salads with either fruit, vegetables, eggs or meat, frozen, gelatinized or raw. Then cheese run through the food chopper comes out in the most enticing little curls to be used for garnishes. These little examples should serve to illustrate the point, which is, try a new cake, originate a new salad, invent a new dessert. Devote the same time, attention, energy and interest to the cooking that would be necessary for the cultivation of any other art. When this is done the thrill of evolving and creating will accompany cooking to make it a joy instead of a drudgery. Then will three meals a day verily be an adventure!