Three Meals a Day—an Adventure By Franke Beal Johns
Doesn't it? How often have we all gazed disconsolately at the breakfast dishes and been almost overcome by the sinking feeling which always accompanies the thought, "What shall I get for dinner?" It sounds like a paradox, does it not? How often have we all gazed disconsolately at the breakfast dishes and been almost overcome by the sinking feeling which always accompanies the thought, "What shall I get for dinner?" It sounds like a paradox, does it not? Doesn't life frequently seem just one continual round of cooking and washing dishes? Often, indeed, have most of us indulged ourselves, as has been the wont of our sex for ages past, in the luxury of planning the delightful things we could do if only it were not necessary to spend the larger part of our waking moments between the cupboard and the cook stove. If only we were not obliged to do so much mixing, stirring, boiling, baking and stewing, we have said, we would be able to fulfill some of our hearts' desires. We might write our poem or give expression to the musical stirrings within us or take time to satisfy our ever present longing to delve into the realms of literary masterpieces. Deep within us we all have felt the urge to build, to create. These desires we might be able to satisfy, we might be able to express something really worthwhile were it not for those everlasting three meals a day! For most of us our rebellion may or may not relieve our feelings but the three meals per day we continue to have with us. Our family must be fed. It ranks with the inevitable. Granted then, that as the mother of the house, fate has decreed we must prepare those three meals day after day, year in and year out, is there anything at all that we can do about it? Well, there are two things. For one, we can resign ourselves to our fate, grit our teeth and go to it. Every day we can fry the eggs and meat, boil the potatoes, make the gravy and stew the fruit. Our weekly routine we may soon be able to follow without much conscious thought and by following it we may be able to cut the time required for preparing food to a minimum, but ah, how frequently we shall rail at the monotony of our existence! On the other hand it is possible to make of three meals a day an adventure. Absurd and fantastic, do you say? Accept then, this challenge, take with you into the kitchen your suppressed desire to create, give it expression in your cooking, and see if your skepticism doesn't disappear.
We begin with the first and perhaps most perplexing problem, before mentioned, "What shall we get for dinner?" Most of us are prone to brood over the problem for a while in dismay and end up by preparing practically the same meal we presented to our families only a day or so ago. Naturally we can't expect to get much of a thrill out of repeating that experience. It isn't just a matter of being a good cook, for many really good cooks are also dull cooks and in order to make of cookery an adventure the dull, the commonplace and the unvaried must be avoided as the plague. So instead of following the routine let's have an experience. Let's prepare at least one dish that we never have made before. Let's not stop at preparing food that is just good and wholesome; let's make it interesting as well. If we desire we 228 can make all of our meals intriguing, something to which the family will look forward. We can prepare delightful dishes that will cause us to thrill with just pride and pleasure when we place them on the table. We need not necessarily rank among those who live only to eat, yet in the view of the fact that while we live we must eat, surely it should be permissible and even desirable that the process partake of as much of the pleasant and aesthetic as possible instead of being left to rank entirely among the grim necessities of life.