[Vol41 | November 1954 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Poem | Title: The Pumpkin Pie Glorified | Author: Bertha F. Cozzens]
The Pumpkin Pie Glorified Bertha F. Cozzens How many times have you heard a speech about this or that being great, But what's more noble than Pumpkin Pie bedded snugly in a plate? It isn't just a pie to me, it's filled with memories rare, The children by the kitchen stove are all mixed up in there. It's flavored with spices from afar, what a story they could tell! Of countries far across the sea where other people dwell; Of gardens where a big round moon shone on the flowers below, And the sun in all its glory helped the fragrant spice to grow. A wheat field serenaded by the bluebird and the lark, A handsome pumpkin flirting, and who promptly lost his heart To a gentle zephyr breeze who dropped briefly by his side To view with admiration the marvel of his size. And he sighed as he watched her drift away across the waving grain, For he knew he must stay to complete his task, and on the vine remain. And then the eggs, a work of art, a miracle of creation, Let bells ring out, let symphonies give a magnificent ovation, For as they pop out of the shell and in the bowl they drop, You've got a mixture there, my friend, to make your eyelids pop. And now, you take the cool, white milk stored from a summer's sun, Of pleasant days with "Bossy Cow' whose work was so well done. Now pour it in and, drop by drop, you watch it take its place Among the immortal gifts of God, a hymn of praise and grace. Ah! Now you've got a mixture there that's history in the making! Just sniff the aroma in the air the time that pie is baking. It's one of those moment; in our lives when trivial things won't matter, As we pause awhile in cur busy day, that Pumpkin Pie to flatter. Oh! That luscious Pumpkin Pie, the top all flecked with gold, And as I dig my teeth deep in, the half can never be told. As each loved one takes a piece, his face is all aglow; There's a feeling of real happiness to watch the portions go. So when we give our thanks to God for blessings day by day, Put in an extra word or two, let us not forget to say, "We thank thee Lord for sun and rain, and all good that in them lie That combine the wondrous making of a family Pumpkin Pie."