[Vol41 | November 1954 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: Mary S.]
[Mary S. Young Learned to Paint at Seventy-Eight]
pONSIDER  again  the  sisters  Mary 
and  Martha  of  Bethanv  and 
their  brother  Lazarus,  in  the  blessed 
companionship  the\-  enjo\'ed  with 
Jesus,  all  of  whom  he  lo\ed.  Both 
of  these  sisters  stand  as  examples  to 
us  of  devotion  and  faith— Martha 
with  her  great  knowledge  of  the 
resurrection  as  she  said,  speaking  of 
the  death  of  her  brother,  *'...! 
know  that  he  shall  rise  again  in  the 
resurrection  at  the  last  day"  (John 
11:24)  ^^^^  ^^^^  declaration  of  Jesus' 
Messiahship,  ''.  .  .  I  believe  that 
thou  art  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  God, 
which  should  come  into  the  world" 
(John  11:27). 
It  was  her  sister  Mary  who  came 
before  the  Passion  Week  as  Jesus 
sat  at  supper  and  anointed  him  with 
the  precious  spikenard  in  the  ala- 
baster box.  You  will  recall  that  in 
response  to  Judas  Iscariot's  com- 
plaints, the  Savior  prophesied,  "For 
in  that  she  hath  poured  this  oint- 
ment on  my  body,  she  did  it  for  my 
burial.  Verily  I  say  unto  you, 
Wheresoever  this  gospel  shall  be 
preached  in  the  whole  world,  there 
shall  also  this,  that  this  woman 
hath  done,  be  told  for  a  memorial 
of  her"  (Matt.  26:12-13). 
And  then  we  come  to  the  tran- 
scending experience  of  our  sister 
Mary  Magdalene,  out  of  whom  Jesus 
cast  se\'en  devils.  Faithful  Mary  was 
near  the  cross  at  the  crucifixion,  she 
was  at  the  burial,  at  the  tomb  early 
in  the  morning,  and  the  first  to  see 
the  resurrected  Christ.  What  love, 
ser\ice  to  others,  and  devotion  must 
ha\e  been  hers  to  merit  the  blessing 
of  exclaiming,  "Master,"  as  she 
recognized  her  risen  Lord. 
Such  great  and  glorious  blessings 
came  to  our  sisters  of  a  former  day 
because  they  earned  them,  for  in 
this  dispensation  the  Lord  has  said: 
'There  is  a  law,  irrevocably  decreed 
in  heaven  before  the  foundations  of 
this  world,  upon  which  all  blessings 
are  predicated— And  when  we  ob- 
tain any  blessing  from  God,  it  is  by 
obedience  to  that  law  upon  which 
it  is  predicated"  (D.  &  C. 
130:20-21). 
Blessings  await  us,  if  we  will  earn 
them  as  did  our  sisters  of  a  former 
day  by  obeying  the  laws  on  which 
they  are  predicated.  And  as  we  go 
about  our  lives  of  service  and  learn- 
ing in  Relief  Society,  let  us  often 
recall  the  words  of  Christ  to  Mar- 
tha: "But  one  thing  is  needful: 
and  Mary  hath  chosen  that  good 
part,  which  shall  not  be  taken  away 
from  her"  (Luke  10:42). 
Let  us  choose  the  one  thing  need- 
ful—of hearing  and  doing  the  will 
of  the  Lord— and  it  will  not  be  tak- 
en away  from  us.  That  we  may  all 
do  so  is  my  prayer.

Be  Ye  an  Example 
Velma  N.  Sinionsen 
[Address  Delivered  at  the  Annual  General  Relief  Society  Conference 
September  30,  1954] 
Ifeel  
very  thankful  for  the  privi- 
lege of  being  here  today,  and  it 
is  gratifying  to  see  the  over- 
whelming number  who  are  as- 
sembled here.  It  is  an  evidence  of 
your  devotion  to  the  worthy  cause  in 
which  we  are  engaged. 
The  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  teaching 
his  disciples,  called  attention  to  the 
importance  of  their  position  and 
place  in  the  world.  He  did  this, 
notwithstanding  that  men  consid- 
ered the  disciples  of  small  conse- 
quence. He  told  them  that  they 
were  the  salt  of  the  earth,  the  light 
of  the  world.  He  encouraged  them 
to  effort  and  achievement  by  show- 
ing them  that  their  exalted  positions 
would  avail  them  little  unless  they 
made  proper  use  of  their  high  call- 
ings. He  pointed  out  to  them 
that,  ''.  .  .  if  the  salt  have  lost  his 
savour,  wherewith  shall  it  [the 
earth]  be  salted?"  (Mt.  5:13).  They 
were  called,  '\  .  .  the  light  of  the 
world.  A  city  that  is  set  on  an  hill 
cannot  be  hid''  (Mt.  5:14)  but 
were  cautioned  that  ''  Neither  do 
men  light  a  candle,  and  put  it  under 
a  bushel,  but  on  a  candlestick;  and 
it  giveth  light  unto  all  that  are  in 
the  house"  (Mt.  5:15)  meaning 
that,  while  they  were  full  of  light 
and  knowledge  it  was  improper  to 
hide  that  knowledge.  It  should  be 
diffused  abroad  for  the  benefit  of 
all. 
They  were  then  counseled:  'Tet 
your  light  so  shine  before  men,  that 
they  may  see  your  good  works,  and 
Page  724 
glorify  your  Father  which  is  in  heav- 
en" (Mt.  5:16).  These  conditions 
and  instructions  apply  to  us  today 
just  as  much  as  they  did  to  those 
who  lived  in  the  days  when  these 
precious  words  were  uttered.  The 
commandment,  *'Let  your  light  so 
shine  before  men,  that  they  may 
see  your  good  works  ,  .  ."  is  just  as 
binding  upon  Latter-day  Saints  as 
it  was  upon  the  former  day  saints. 
We  sisters  sitting  here  in  this 
building  are  among  those  that  are 
the  salt  of  the  earth,  and  in  us  is 
vested  the  gospel  light,  but  it  will 
avail  nothing  unless  we  consider  our- 
selves of  some  consequence,  unless 
we  realize  the  importance  of  the  po- 
sitions and  responsibilities  which  we 
hold,  and  let  our  light  shine  forth 
collectively  and  individually  for  the 
world  to  see  and  to  follow. 
We  have  been  admonished  by 
our  Priesthood  authorities  to  be  a 
light  unto  our  sisters,  to  be  leaders 
of  our  Father's  daughters  in  this 
generation.  How  will  we  discharge 
this  responsibility?  First  by  example. 
Example  is  the  greatest  quality  of 
leadership— not  only  in  the  Church 
but  in  every  phase  of  life.  Brigham 
Young  said,  "The  greatest  and  loud- 
est sermon  that  can  be  preached,  or 
that  ever  was  preached  on  the  face 
of  the  earth,  is  practice.  No  other 
is  equal  to  it."  It  has  been  said 
that,  'Trecept  is  instruction  written 
in  the  sand,  and  the  first  wa\'e  that 
comes  along  may  obliterate  the  rec- 
ord, but  example  is  record  written

BE  YE  AN  EXAMPLE  725 
in  rock  which  may  endure  through-  to  Latter-day  Saint  women.  Let  us 
out  all  eternity."  Example  is  every-  not   adopt    such    fashions    to    our- 
thing,  and  precept  very  little  unless  selves,  but  do  let  us  be  an  example 
backed  by  example.  President  David  of  fastidiousness  in  our  neatness  and 
O.   McKay   said,   ''In   example  we  cleanliness, 
prove  our  worth."  There  is  nowhere  in  the  Church 
First  we  must   consider  the  ex-  or  in  the  world  where  good  examples 
ample  of  our  own  lives.    Are  we  con-  should  be  more  evident  than  in  our 
forming   to   the   ideals  and   stand-  homes-that  is  where  effective  lead- 
ards  of  the  Church?     We  do  not  ership    should    be    most    manifest, 
need  to  go  into  a  discussion  of  what  Since  the  art  of  making  a  good  home 
these  standards  are.    We  know  what  is  woman's  greatest  achievement,  and 
they  are,  or  we  should  know,  if  we  since  the  maintaining  of  a  home  is 
are  leaders,  and  we  know  within  our-  lier  first  responsibihty,  our  homes 
selves  if  we  are  living  in  accordance  should  be  examples  of  cleanliness, 
with  these  standards.  thrift,   and   spirituality,   where   the 
spirit  of  the  Lord  dwells,  where  re- 
'lATHAT  we  do  not  fully  realize,  ligion  is  taught,  both  in  our  conver- 
perhaps,  is  how  important  the  sation  and  by  our  actions,  and  where 
light  of  our  own  life  is  in  teaching  om  daughters  are  taught  by  example 
others  these  ideals  and  standards.  If  the  fundamental  arts  of  housekeep- 
we  would  truly  teach  a  truth  to  an-  i"g-  Under  these  conditions  when 
other  we  must  first  live  that  truth,  the  responsibilities  of  homemaking 
If  we  would  teach  others  honesty,  come  to  them,  they  will  be  free 
we  must  be  honest.  If  we  expect  from  the  sorrows  and  perplexities 
loyalty  from  those  whom  we  lead,  we  which  come  from  ignorance  and  in- 
must  loyally  support  those  who  lead  experience. 
us.  Questioning,  before  those  whom  Today,  as  we  read  the  frightening 
we  wish  to  lead,  of  the  instructions  statistics  of  divorce  and  delinquency 
given  us  by  our  leaders  injures  the  even    among    our    own    Latter-day 
fine  spirit  of  loyalty  and  co-opera-  Saint  people,  and  see  the  evil  ef- 
tion  that  makes  for  successful  lead-  fects  that  come  from  broken  homes, 
ership.    If  we  would  be  zealous  in  let  us  resolve  that  our  own  homes 
fulfilling     the     commandment     to  will    be    examples    where    children 
spread  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  to  may  see  and  absorb  the  sacredness 
our    neighbors,    we    must    impress  of  family  life  and  the  joys  and  re- 
them  with  the  value  of  the  gospel  sponsibilities    associated    therewith, 
in  our  own  lives  as  reflected  by  our  and  that  they  may  have  a  high  view 
good  works.    Living  the  good  life  is  of  marriage,  realizing  that  it  is  not 
really  the   only  way  to   teach   the  an   arrangement   to   be   terminated 
good  life.  lightly.  The  greatest  hope  for  the 
Even  our  personal  appearance  is  raising  of  the  standards  of  the  home, 
important  in  leadership.  We  have  and  thus  of  the  community  and  the 
been  told  over  and  over  again  that  nation,  is  by  the  examples  set  by 
our    dress    should    be    becomingly  parents    who    know    and    love    the 
modest,  neat,  and  clean.     Many  of  Lord, 
today's  fashions  are  not  becoming  Today,  I  have  but  briefly  men-