[Vol41 | November 1954 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Article | Title: Contentment | Author: Romney]
Contentment Is a Lovely Thing CHAPTER 2 Dorothy S. Romney Synopsis: Margaret Lansing, whose husband Jed has become a farmer contrary to the wishes of his parents, is worried over the approaching visit of Jed's father, a prominent brain surgeon, and his wife, whom she has never seen. Just before their arrival Margaret is taken ill, and the young couple find it impossible to get help in the household. Jed takes Kimmy, the baby, with him to the station to meet his parents, and Margaret is left alone. ARGARET sent up a little prayer that Jed's father and mother would see how contented he was, and be proud that he had strength of character enough to choose the life's work he was best fitted for... That they would consider that a son was an individual, and not just someone designed to carry out a family wish. Then she was looking up into the faces of two of the most intelligent and distinguished-looking — people she had ever seen. Mrs. Lansing— or rather Mother Lansing, as Jed had instructed her to call his mother, had the air of a queen. Her eyes were serene, her forehead as smooth as a young woman's, and her bluewhite hair beautifully coifed. Jed's father looked exactly as Margaret thought a famous doctor should look. She found herself stammering excuses for the condition of the house amid the introductions and Jed's explanation of their lateness. "IT tried to telephone you from the station to tell you that the train was going to be late. I guess you Page 754 were asleep," he said. 'There was an awkward gap in the conversation which he broke by saying, "I guess I'd better go out and get the stock in out of the rain. I noticed the lambs looking hopefully toward the barn as we came in." The words filled Margaret with fresh terror. He couldn't go out and leave them here staring at one another. Mrs. Lansing was equal to the occasion, however. Margaret was sure that she would be equal to almost any occasion which called for tact and understanding. "If you'll show us to our room," she said, '"'we'll do some unpacking while you're busy outside." "Of course," said Jed. Margaret watched them out of the room, Kimmy jabbering away in his adorable manner, with sounds that said nothing, but meant everything to Margaret. "Tll bring in your luggage," Jed was saying, "and I'll get the stock in and do a few other necessary chores. 'Time and calves wait for no man—not very patiently, anyway." Why, oh, why, must he go out of his way to point up the inconveniences of farm life! Thought Margaret impatiently. She hadn't long to consider this, however, before Jed's father was back with his black physician's bag in his hand. He took out a thermometer and shook it down., "Hold this under your tongue CONTENTMENT IS A LOVELY THING while I take your pulse, then we'll go to work and find out what the trouble is here," he said. She held the thermometer lightly between her lips while he took her pulse, and then drew a stethoscope out of the bag. I'll never be able to call him anything but Dr. Lansing, she thought. He's so dignified—so much the physician. "A case of flu—not too bad," he announced cheerfully when he had finished the check-up. '""We'll have you up and around again in a few days. I'll give you some medicine that will help hurry things along." A few days! Thought Margaret in panic. She couldn't spare even a few hours from her many duties. The care of the baby alone was almost a full-time job.