[Vol41 | November 1954 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Lesson | Title: Literature | Author: Jacobs]
ol iterature—Literature of England Lesson 45—"Wuthering Heights" by Emily Bronte Elder Briant S. Jacobs For Tuesday, February 15, 1955 Objective: To become better acquainted with the novel as an art form, and to weigh and consider Emily Bronte, and Wuthering Heights, as they relate to us. N LAST month's discussion we mentioned the life of Emily Bronte, and how her poems had integrity because they gave a true statement of the inward, intense events of her existence. Having thus met specimens of her art in cameo-size, we are now better prepared to approach her masterpiece. This novel is portrayed against a backdrop in harmony with Miss Bronte's memorable, natural characters and the reality which this passionate, haunting book achieves. Wuthering Heights has been many things to many readers, starting immediately from the day of its publication in 1847, only a few months before Emily's death at age thirty. In her preface to the 1850 edition, Charlotte Bronte, Emily's sister, admits charges that some of the reading public have found the book "rude." In answer to the charge that her sister's book is rustic, Charlotte writes: I admit the charge, for I feel the quality. It is rustic all through. It is moorish, and wild, and knotty as the root of heath. Nor was it natural that it should be otherwise; the author being herself a native and nursling of the moors. Aside from one lone reviewer. Who, by 1850, had sensed the power and genius of the novel, Charlotte, at least, understood the book and its significance, for she speaks of "the Page 77/2 immature but very real powers" of this "first novel." Charlotte maintained that, as a creative artist, Emily's role was merely that of midwife, regardless of whether her creations are to be praised or blamed. In this we must agree. Wuthering Heights, of necessity, must be the spontaneous outgrowth of Emily's instinctive genius, since never in her life did she have contact with any literary school or dominant literary influence. While Charlotte sought to explain Wuthering Heights, so it would be accepted, she, nevertheless, insisted on at least one element of grandeur within the novel: its sustained magnificent power. She also came near pointing out the true identity of the book as a_ prose poem, in which Emily's poetic powers, the real source of her genius, achieve a shattering interplay of forces, tensions, and various levels of interpretations. The Victorians felt this inexplicable power, but because it could not be explained, and because the book defied almost all conventions—of form, subject matter, plot, characterization, it was little read in the nineteenth century, since it was held to be a warped, chaotic book. Even as late as its 1929 edition, the Ency clopedia Britannica devoted but one sentence to discrediting Branwell Bronte's claim LESSON DEPARTMENT to authorship, and another sentence to speak of Wuthering Heights. And that is all. Today most critics are ready to acknowledge it as one of the greatest novels ever written. Plot of Wuthering Heights The plot is neither overly complex nor lengthy; it fulfills its function perfectly, and without Emily's telling, it would be just another story: Lockwood, a city dweller who for a time leases Thrushcross Grange, an lisolated country estate, tells the story. He calls on Heathcliff, who owns Wuthering Heights, four miles away, Lockwood is so haunted by this visit, that he asks Nelly Dean, his housekeeper, what she knows of her neighbors. Nelly Dean, who had been a servant at Wuthering Heights when Heathcliff was brought to Wuthering Heights as an abandoned babe by the owner Mr. Earnshaw, sits up half the night telling Lockwood most of the novel. Heathcliff had been reared in the Earnshaw home, but he was so teased and hated by Mr. Earnshaw's son, Hindley, that Heathcliff retreated more and more often to the wild countryside, accompanied by Hindley's sister, Catherine Earnshaw, who was a little younger than he. 'They had fallen in love, but because Heathcliff was a menial about the place with nothing to offer her, Catherine had turned from him to weak, mild, Edgar Linton, heir to Thrushcross Grange, who worshiped her. Heathcliff left Wuthering Heights in anger when he heard Catherine say that a marriage with him would degrade her. Three years later Heathcliff returns, handsome, polished, and mysteriously wealthy. Catherine and Edgar are expecting their first child. Heathcliff is consumed by a desire for revenge on Hindley. He takes up quarters at Wuthering Heights where, through Hindley's weakness for gambling, he wins entire control over him and all his lands. At Thrushcross Grange, Heathcliff insults Edgar as a coward and taunts Catherine as loving himself alone. So torn is Catherine by the contrast between Heathcliff's strength and her hus- 773 band's lame spirit, and between her feelings of love and hate for Heathcliff, that she becomes delirious, and for weeks is not herself. Through Edgar and Nelly Dean's constant care she is spared death, but her suffering has so changed her features that when the rash Heathcliff forces his way in to see her, he hardly knows her, and weeps that he has destroyed her. In a dynamic scene quivering with lightning, Catherine acknowledges her mistake in marrying Edgar. 'That evening she dies giving birth to a daughter, Cathy. After Catherine's funeral Edgar begins a life of dedicated seclusion, living only for Cathy and the memory of his wife. Meanwhile, Heathcliff has married Edgat's sister, Isabella; however, he so maltreats her that finally, she escapes to a distant city to give birth to their son, Linton Heathcliff. At his mother's death, young Linton is claimed by his Uncle Edgar, but Heathcliff insists on his rights as the father, and Linton comes to Wuthering Heights to live. Heathcliff has reared Hindley Earmshaw's son, Hareton, as a menial, refusing to give him any education, and teaching him to hate everyone but Heathcliff himself, whom Hareton worships. In contrast to Hareton, Heathcliff's own son, Linton, is a weakling. Although Linton is dying, Heathcliff contrives to have Cathy marry him. By agreemg to marry Linton, she returns to her father, Edgar, who is ill at Thrushcross Grange. Thus, at his son Linton's death, Heathcliff receives Thrushcross Grange and all the Linton property, and Cathy comes to live at Wuthering Heights. She begins to educate young Hareton, and falls in love with him. Heathcliff, suddenly, haunted by Catherine's ghost, loses all his malice, and dies, leaving young Cathy and Hareton his property and every prospect of happiness. Technique In writing her novel, Miss Bronte faced the same problem as in her poetry: how to incarnate within her creation the convictions and 774 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1954 THE BRONTE SISTERS, ANNE, EMILY, great conflicts within her heart without revealing more of her own secret emotions than she wished to share with the public. Wuthering Heights is far too intense a struggle ever to be recorded in first person; also such a viewpoint would make the novel appear too autobiographical, so Emily introduces Lockwood and Nelly Dean, both largely outside the main plot, and impersonal. By having most of the events happen in past time, and leading up to the present moment, Miss Bronte prepares the reader to accompany Lockwood as he observes the final scenes for himself. Never does the author intrude between the novel's action and the reader, nor does she editorialize in the usual Victorian manner. Her method of telling is one of directness and_ simplicity, catching exactly the wild, rough speech of country characters, then rising to crescendos of poetic powCHARLOTTE From an old Print of the Painting by Branwell Bronte er, followed by subtle, piercing passages of great effectiveness. W ord-Power Consciously or innocently, Miss Bronte's purpose throughout the novel seems to be to give to her main characters, Catherine and Heathcliff, the strength and the natural powers which, as creatures of unknown, untamed nature, should be theirs. She draws many images from nature, from earth, and atr, and fire, and from the lives of fierce animals. And she uses vigorous verbs: writhe, crush, bludgeon, rage, twang, tear, clutch, and shriek. The power of the book is not only in scene or descriptions, but in the rhetorical fireworks of the dialogue, again with figures drawn from nature: I perceive that people in these regions acquire over people in towns the value that a spider in a dungeon does over a, spider in a cottage (chapter 7). LESSON DEPARTMENT Treachery and violence are spears at both ends—they wound those who resort to them, worse than their enemies (chapter 17). Throughout the novel, it is the extremes of emotion which are important; the causes of emotion are neither explained nor acknowledged. Protest Against Spiritual Restraints The following excerpts reveal the power of descriptions in the novel: Joseph, the servant: you saw him, I daresay, up yonder. He was, and is yet most likely, the wearisomest, self. Righteous Pharisee that ever ransacked a Bible to rake the promises to himself and fling the curses to his neighbors (chapter 5, paragraph 3). My love for Linton is like the foliage in the woods: time will change it, I'm well aware, as winter changes the trees. My love for Heathcliff resembles the eternal rocks beneath: a source of little visible delight, but necessary. Nelly, I am Heathcliff! He's always, always in my mind: not as a pleasure, any more than I am always a pleasure to myself, but as my own being (chapter 9). One time, however, we were near quarrelling. He said the pleasantest manner of spending a hot July day was lying from morming till evening on a bank of heath in the middle of the moors, with the bees humming dreamily about among the bloom, and the larks singing high up overhead, and the blue sky and bnght sun shining steadily and cloudlessly. 'That was his most perfect idea of Heaven's happiness: mine was rocking in a rustling green tree, with a west wind blowing, and bright white clouds flitting rapidly above; and not only larks, but throstles, and blackbirds, and linnets, and cuckoos pouring out music on every side, and the moors seen at a distance, broken into cool dusky dells; but close by great swells of long grass undulating in waves to the breeze; and woods and sounding water, and the whole world awake and wild with joy (chapter 24). 775 Just as Emily Bronte felt smothered by the rigid social code which kept her father far distant from his children, which enforced loneliness and disdain upon old maids, and which was often concerned with the outer shell and appearance of religious and political institutions, so, in her novel, she releases her inner turmoil in her personal world of complete, inner freedom — a dream world of innocent, inevitable nature where only the laws of its own order are obeyed. Although her art was extremely subjective, welling up from the realm of the unconscious to be expressed on the page with stirring dramatic power, Miss Bronte's attitude toward her characters was one of complete detachment and amazing innocence. Often her vivid imaginings are truer than she knew. In her novel is the great incarnation of the tensions which Emily Bronte suffered: the struggle and contrast between the gigantic disorder which she sees everywhere about her, and the inner peace which her poems express. 'The novel is so powerful because of the many tensions it contains: between romance and social restraint; between the innocent peace of childhood and the stern, sometimes cruel realities of maturity; between mythical force and rural isolation; between a brutal nature and over-polite civilization; between material and spiritual values, or the Other World as opposed to This World; between death of the spirit through resignation and inertia as opposed and subdued by achieving life through self-expression, action, and liberty. In the final analysis Wuthering Heights, indeed the entire existence LESSON DEPARTMENT: j! 777 tions in three-fourths thereof, as the one or the other Mode of Ratification may be proposed by the Congress; Provided that no Amendment which may be made prior to the Year One thousand eight hundred and eight shall in any Manner affect the first and fourth Clauses in the Ninth Section of the first Article; and that no State, without its Consent, shall be deprived of its equal Suffrage in the Senate. ARTICLE VI All Debts contracted and Engagements entered into, before the Adoption of this Constitution, shall be as valid against the United States under this Constitution as the Confederation. This Constitution, and the Laws of the United States which shall be made in Pursuance thereof; and all Treaties made, or which shall be made, under the

Authority of the United States, shall be the supreme Law of the Land; and the Judges in every State shall be bound thereby, any Thing in the Constitution or Laws of any State to the Contrary notwithstanding. The Senators and Representatives before mentioned, and the Members of the several State Legislatures, and all executive and judicial Officers, both of the United States and of the several States, shall be bound by Oath or Affirmation, to support this Constitution; but no religious Test shall ever be required as a Qualification to any Office or public Trust under the United States. ARTICLE VII The Ratification of the Conventions of nine States shall be sufficient for the Establishment of this Constitution between the States so ratifying the Same. ARTICLES In ADDITION TO, AND AMENDMENT OF, THE ConstTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA ARTICLE I Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances. ARTICLE II A well regulated Militia, being necessary to the security of a free State, the right of the people to keep and bear Arms shall not be infringed. ARTICLE III No Soldier shall, in time of peace be quartered in any house, without the consent of the Owner, nor in time of war, but in a manner to be prescribed by law. ARTICLE IV The right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and seizures, shall not be violated and no Warrants shall issue, but upon probable cause, supported by Oath or affirmation, and particularly de. Scribing the place to be searched, and the person or things to be seized. 778 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1954 Lesson 11—Its Form and Content—Articles IV, V, VI, and VII and Bill of Rights, First Four Amendments Elder Albert R. Bowen Texts: Your Rugged Constitution, (Y. R. C.), pp. 157-203; The Constitution of the United States, Its Sources and Its Application, (C. Of U. S.), pp. 156-210. For Tuesday, February 1955* Objective: To study the relationship between the National Government and the states; the provisions for amendment of the Constitution; the miscellaneous provisions; and the first four Amendments in the Bill of Rights. N the two previous lessons we have studied the first three Articles of the Constitution which deal with the three separate departments of Government: namely, the Legislative, the Executive, and Judicial Departments. We shall now consider the remaining four Articles of the Constitution as _ originally framed. Article [V—Relationship Between States and Federal Government (Y. R. C. Pp. 157-169; C. Of U. S. Pp. 156-169). Section 1 provides that "Full Faith and Credit shall be given in each State to the public Acts, Records, and judicial Proceedings of every other State." In other words, no state may refuse recognition to such public acts, records, or judicial proceedings of every other state. They must be given the same recognition to which they would be entitled in the state where made. As an example, a marriage performed in one state and recognized by the laws of that state is good in every other state. Section 2, clause 1 provides that "The Citizens of each State shall be entitled to all Privileges and Immunities of Citizens in the several States." This provision of the Constitution has been further extended by the Fourteenth Amendment. The object of this provision is to prevent a citizen of one state from being considered or treated as an alien in another state. Thus, if a citizen of California goes to Oregon, he is entitled to all the privileges enjoyed by a citizen of Oregon. Privileges and immunities are the fundamental privileges enjoyed under all free governments. Section 2, clause 2 provides for the extradition of criminals who flee from justice into another state from the one in which the crime was committed. Upon application of the aggrieved state, the governor of the state to which the fugitive from justice has flown is bound to deliver the fugitive to the authorities of the state making the demand for his return. Section 3 provides for the admission of new states and territories to the Union. Congress has this power of admission exclusively. 'The only limitation on the power is that in creating a new state, Congress may not take away any territory from an existing state without its consent.