[Vol41 | November 1954 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Editorial | Author: Crawford]
[Editorial: Praise and Thanksgiving Vesta P. Crawford]

Crark, Ann Noran: Blue Canvon Horse, Viking Press, New York. $2.75 The author is winner of the Nene, Prize for her book Secret of the Andes. Blue Canyon Horse is the story of an Indian boy whose pony runs away to join a band of wild horses, but who returns to his master. The scene is laid at Havasupai, a tributary to the Grand Canyon. The small Indian tribe who live there love their horses and are expert riders. The illustrator is Allan Hauser, an Apache Indian. For children seven to eleven. Coomss, Cuarurs: Skyrocketing Into the Unknown, William Morrow and Company, New York. $4.00. Describing accomplishments in aviation, having 145 photographs of all types of planes, including the latest jet and rocket planes. For all ages, from twelve up, who are interested in aviation. Bible Children, J. B. Philadelphia. Doane, PELAGIE: Lippincott Company, 92.75% Contains ten reverently told stories of Old 'Testament characters. For children four to eight. JasHtmMA, Taro and Mitsu: Plenty to Watch, Viking Press, New York. $2.50. "Everyday life in a Japanese Village, as 743 seen by a child returning to his home from school. Otro, MARGARET AND Stuart: The Horse and Pony Book, William neal and Company, New York. $2.5 Twenty-four types of ee are illustrated and described. For children eight to twelve. Piper, Epwarp Watty: The Little Engine That Could, Platt and Munk Company, $1.00. A new edition of a classic that has sold over a million copies. For children four to eight. Ravietui, ANTHONY: Wonders of the Human Body, Viking Press, New York. $2.50. Accurate text and unusual drawings describing the '"'most perfect of all machines," but "we are more than just machines, because we love and want to be loved, and have pity, and know why, and dream, and have ideals and faith. These gifts of the spirit set man above all other creatures."' For children nine to thirteen. Zion, Gene: Hide and Seek Day, Harper and Brothers, New York. $2.00. By the author of the beautiful book All Falling Down. Where do turtles, trains, and people hide, and why? A little boy finds out. For children four to six. One of the publishers has said that it has the "most fabulous list of books in its entire history," and it would be impossible to give the titles of all the outstanding and beautiful books recently published for children. Both authors and illustrators are giving their talents towards producing worthwhile and permanent books for boys and girls of all ages. 'The test of their success is in the popularity of their books and when children ask for more of the same kind. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, November 1, and November 15, 1894 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomMeEN OF ALL NATIONS" Harmony of Line and Color: Small delicate women will select styles and material which increase the look of size. They may wear light colored fabrics very beautiful in themselves but with little trimming and that choice. A large graceful woman should clothe herself in soft rich stuffs of such color as not to increase the look of size. Tall women should avoid stripes, short ones should avoid plaids. Dress should be made decorative as well as necessary. It is a woman's duty to dress becomingly at all times, and as well as her circumstances will allow. —M. B. Hanson QUEENS WHO RULED THEIR PEOPLE WELL We must admit, in England's queen A noble woman we have seen, A bright example all her life Of faithful mother, loving wife, Though she has reigned for fifty years, Well versed in state-craft, wise as peers. —Woman's Journal OUR TRIP TO UINTAH: In connection with sisters M. A. Freeze and May Anderson having been called to visit the sisters in Uintah Stake.... Enjoyed the ride very much up Parley's Canyon... Not reaching Park City until evening, we could not leave for Heber until morning.... When we arose the next morning the snow was about two inches deep... But we started traveling through a twelve mile canyon, then entered the beautiful little valley of the Wasatch... Tuesday the eighteenth, the weather having cleared up, we ascended over the top of the Wasatch mountain, then through Strawberry valley on through the roughest roads that could be imagined, a continual going up and coming down mountains.... Saturday we arrived in Ashley... We regretted very much that our stay could not be longer among those good true Latter-day Saints that know so well how to appreciate the blessings of the gospel. —E. J. Stevenson THE UTAH WOMAN'S PRESS CLUB: The Utah Woman's Press Club held a meeting at the office of President E. R. Shipp, Oct. 30, 1894....

Each member present endeavored either by costume or symbol, to represent some author or literary character.... In answer to her name she arose, and the other members or visitors made a guess as to the character represented:... E. R. Shipp, Portia, in judicial robes.... Miss Gladys Woodmansee, Hypatia, in Roman costume. Mrs. C. R, Wells in white attire, represented Wilkie Collins' "Woman in White."... Mrs. C. Louise Boyden, by a symbol represented Browning.... Mrs. Lucy A. Clark, with powdered hair, lace cap, and imitation snowflakes, represented Mrs. Eliza R. Snow —Lizzie $. Wilcox, Sec'y.