[Vol41 | November 1954 | Sequence: 23 | Category: General Feature | Title: From Near and Far]
From Near and Far The Relief Society Magazine is wonderful, and the spiritual guidance I get from it is priceless, since we live so far from a branch that we don't get to meetings often. —Mrs. Velma Divis Ulysses, Nebraska I do appreciate our Magazine very much, and I can assure you all that I think what a great comfort you must bring to all with whom you come in contact. I have always felt I belonged West. I stayed with an aunt in Shelley, Idaho, and made a number of friends there. My wish is to come West some day with my husband and two children. —Mrs. Ethel Hackett Clayhole Cottage Kelty, Fifeshire, Scotland I love Relief Society, and have attended the meetings as often as I could. Last winter I would wake my baby from his nap, feed him, and away we'd go along the cold, snowy sidewalks down to the... Ward, just a few blocks away. I also joined the Singing Mothers. I always held my baby on my lap and my big boy played around while we practiced. Unfortunately I am about the only young matron in our ward who attends. I urge all young mothers to come out to meetings and see what they've been missing. I tead The Relief Society Magazine from cover to cover. I never imagined there was such a Magazine, so pure and undefiled —Melba L. Lucas Ogden, Utah I do not know who has been responsible for sending me The Relief Society Magazine, but would just like to say that I have enjoyed receiving it these past twelve months that I have been in Japan. Though it might seem a little unusual, I have enjoyed it if for no other reason than reading of Church activity back home. —Corporal Ernest D. Oater United States Marine Corps C/O Post Master, San Francisco, California Page 714 I have read our Relief Society Magazine for many years and was our ward representative for a few years. Here is a poem I wrote about the Magazine many years ago: When you are blue and lonely And in need of a kindly friend, Just get our Relief Society Magazine And read it from beginning to end. —LePreal McKnight Heber, Utah I feel impressed to thank you for the little gem I found in my mailbox yesterday (the September Relief Society Magazine). First of all, I read the conclusion of the serial "The Falling Shackles" by Margery S. Stewart, and felt within myself the peace that came to Papa Tobler Then I read the article ""A Heavenly Banner" and wept a little, as I always do, when a feeling of patriotism and gratitude for this great country surges within me. The story "No Secrets Between Them" brought to my mind the lesson in courage which my own dear mother taught us in her last illness. Beulah Huish Sadleir's poem "Traditional" was choice.... I will always remember my mother who used to hold up our Relief Society Magazine and say, "This little book is worth its weight in gold." —Emily W. Brewer Ogden, Utah As always, I did enjoy the September number. "Where Are the Nine?" by Sylvia Probst Young is fine. The little article "Ralph" (by Dorothy A. Johnson) is touching, and the two short stories "The Long Night" (by Maurine B. Hansen) and "No Secrets Between Them' (by Dorothy Boys Kilian) are excellent. I enjoyed the serial "The Falling Shackles" by Margery S. Stewart. Her handling of the foreign brogue was outstanding. —Frances C. Yost Bancroft, Idaho