[Vol41 | November 1954 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Article | Title: A | Author: Park]
[A Letter From Mother Clara Home Park]

some Dreakfast."' Again she felt an apology rushing to her lips for being such a bother to everyone, but she closed them tight and kept silent. Dr. Lansing took her temperafure.. And pulse, then told lier, "You'll be fine in a day or two." He went back into the kitchen and Margaret could hear him telling his wife that she was awake and ready for breakfast. In a few minutes Mrs. Lansing came in with a breakfast trav and set it down on the bedside table. "I''m glad to hear that youre feeling better this morning," she said, with a seemingly determined cheerfulness. "Yes, I feel much better," Margaret answered, "I'm sure I'll be able to get up tomorrow. I have a picnic planned, and it's such a lovely spot it would be a shame to miss It "The doctor will want you to remain in bed tomorrow, I'm sure. 758 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1954 Now eat your breakfast, my dear." "I thought it would be a nice change for all of us,'" Margaret persisted. "Perhaps it would," her motherin-law answered unsmilingly, "but you are to remain in bed." She was gone, and so was the plan for the picnic that was to have been such fun. Margaret and Jed had planned to take his parents to their favorite picnic spot in the near-by greening glen, where they could enjoy the peaceful seclusion and be grateful each time all over again that they were privileged to live in such a lovely place. There were busy sounds in the kitchen all morning, and Margaret could hear Kimmy crowing happily now and then. 'The doctor had ordered Kimmy to be kept away from her for fear of his contracting her illness. She was missing him dreadfully, and listened intently for every sound he made. Soon she heard Mrs. Lansing admonish Kimmy, "You be good now while I go into the living room for a while." Then she could hear him: pounding the tray of his high chair with his toy over the high keening of the vacuum cleaner. Jed's mother was doing too much. Just doing the things that were absolutely necessary would have been enough to tire the older woman out. All this extra work and responsibility would not help her to like the place. She will never be satisfied to let Jed stay here and be a farmer, Margaret told herself. She turned her face to the window where the plum tree branches touched the glass. (To be continued) +2 Little Wise len Lael W. Hill They who have squandered nickels lavishly On comic books, too many candy bars, And every bauble their quick eyes could see, Now hoard their pennies, counting them like stars. At night they stack their treasure in small heaps And total it again and yet again; Each hides it in his pillow while he sleeps And dreams about the magic moment when Daddy will flaunt a brilliant flowered tie, And mother smell of summer if she stir, And dignity be theirs, who save to buy Gifts rare as gold and ftankincense and myrrh. IMlary S Young Laatned to Paint al Seventy-Gight Ms S. Young, Salt Lake City, mother of cight children, and former matron of the Salt Lake and Manti temples. Learned to paint when she was seventy-eight years old. Her paintings have been displaved at the Utah State Capitol, the University of Utah, the Lion House, and at the Brigham Citv exhibit Sister Young is also talented as a home decorator, as a poet, and, while her husband Robert D. Young was on a three-vear mission to Australia, she successfullly owned and operated her own millinery shop. Later, when her husband was called to preside over the Manti Temple, she was serving as a Relief Society stake president. "Who has time to grow old?" she asks, "In this land of opportunity there is so much to learn." In her art work she hopes to portray "'a little of the rare beauties of nature, God's marvelous creations." Recently, at the age of eighty-one she was honored with membership in the National Pen Women's organization. Her friend, Alice Packer Foutz, in a poem called "Lines to a Mother in Israel," expressed in lovely phrasing, some of Sister Young's outstanding characteristics, including the following lines: It is the soul's celestial grace That shines from out her gentle face; It is the charm of heart and mind That in her presence are combined ~—_ > &phemeral ITloment Thelma J. Lund Morning comes To find the glistening lands Holding the shine of stars In hoarfrost hands. A eauon nam Mlother My Dear Children: How are you all this pleasant day? 'This is a lovely time of year, cool enough to stir us to action, yet warm enough to enjoy some outdoor activity, too. No complaints? It is one of the greatest blessings of life to have good health, and no complaints. Thanksgiving Day is just around the corner and will bring another blessing with it, for it means that we will have our dear ones with us again for the fun and frolic of another celebration. Festivals, we are told, are the answer to man's desire to lift himself above the commonplace, to escape from monotony, to taste of high days that he would experience in no other way. They are as sunlit peaks, above dark valleys, giving us new viewpoints, new dreams, and new ambitions. Thanksgiving Day is a festive day that families should spend together, I believe. Enjoy other days with your friends, but this day should be a Mother's and Father's Day combined, with no child absent from the family circle if -it is possible to be within it, or am I just wishing? You may not know, dear ones, but a mother would rather cook Thanksgiving dinner for her family than go to the finest restaurant in the world. What else could be so rewarding as to hear her son say, "Oh, Mother! Your own home-made biscuits? What a treat!" Or her daughter ask, "Mother, why didn't I inherit your talent for making this delicious brown gravy?" Of course, mother will be tired. Her feet will ache and her back will practically break before the final preparations are completed, but she will work with a song in her heart and a prayer on her lips, for the old days will come back again, and the past will mingle with the present, and she will thank God with all her heart for this opportunity of giving, and receiving and rejoicing, and of being young again with her beloved brood. Maybe the old songs will be heard again throughout the house, the old stories with the jokes on each other and on Mother and Dad told, with the viewpoint and flavor of our experiences in the interim softening the outline somewhat. Maybe the loved new additions to our family will share at least a part of the day with us and partake of our enthusiasm and foolishness, and love us the more for it. Please, dear ones, come early to our house. Let the celebration begin long before the dinner hour. I promise that good, appetizing aromas will come from the kitchen no matter how early you may arrive. The anticipation of our happy day together fills me with joy and gratitude. Bring only your dear selves and your love. I thank God for every one of you! Lovingly, Mother, Clara Horne Park —_- Ftakunen Rituals Eunice J. Miles When orchards flaunt their fruity wares With super-aristocratic airs, We welcome Halloweenish pranks, And Pilgrim rituals of thanks. Page 760 \LFROM THE FIELD [7 Margaret C. Pickcring, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relicf Socictv presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for Apnil 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES ' RS Sg Photograph submitted by Mary G. Sorensen DANISH MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS GREET PRESIDENT BELLE S. SPAFFORD AT A MEETING IN AALBORG, DENMARK Front row, at left: President Belle S. Spafford. Second row, at left: Mary Kaiser, Secretary, Danish Mission Relicf Socicty; third from left, Mary G. Sorensen, President, Danish Mission Relief Society. The photograph was taken during the recent visit of President Belle S.