[Vol10 | January 1923 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: National Council of Women]

National Council of Women, once a delegate to the Congress of Women of the United States, and has attended the National Conference of Social Work on various occasions as a delegate of the General Board. In 1921, Mrs. Lyman was appointed by Governor Mabey to represent the State at the meeting of the American Child Hygiene Association.
If there is anything in heredity, Mrs. Lyman has certainly a claim for superiority of birthright. Her maternal grandfather was a graduate of a German university, and her father, who was one of the original band of pioneers of July 24, 1847, was a man of unusual intellect, and mental culture. She is of pioneer stock, and has Scotch, Irish and German strains mingled in her blood. Sociologists have taught us that the mingling of races is productive of the higher types physically and mentally, and Mrs. Lyman in her fine personality and splendid mentality is certainly a verification of this ethnological law.
But the elements of her make-up which have done most to win human hearts, and to hold in a bond of fidelity and devotion all the multitude of friends she has made, are her absolute sincerity, her faith, and her unbounded sympathy for her fellows, whether of high or low estate. People swear by her because they have learned that loyalty and fidelity are a part of her religion.
With such an outlook on life, and such a training and experience in dealing with the intricate problems of social welfare, Mrs. Lyman should make a legislator of the first order.
National Council of Women
The Board meeting of the National Council of Women of the United States was held at Des Moines, Iowa, October, 1922. Twenty-three out of the thirty-eight national organizations belonging, were represented at the meeting including our own Relief Society and Young Ladies Mutual Improvement Association. The delegates from Utah were Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman and Mrs. Ruth May Fox. Mrs. Philip N. Moore, president of the Council, presided. Other officers in attendance were: vice presidents, Mrs. Thomas G. Winter and Miss Anna Gordon; recording secretary, Mrs. Mary North; corresponding secretary, Mrs. Flo J. Miller; treasurer, Dr. Emma E. Bower; auditor, Mrs. Ruth May Fox. 
 There were letters and greetings from Lady Aberdeen, president of the International Council, and from other International officers, as well as from officers of various national councils? all of them disclosing the great desire of the leading women of the world to be of the utmost service during the present period of reconstruction. Interesting reports were made by the various officers of the Council and by the chairmen of standing committees including recommendations for future action.. President Moore announced the resignation of Mme. Chaponniere-Chaix as President of the International Council and the appointment and acceptance of Lady Aberdeen as president to act until the next quinquennial meeting; President Moore also announced the decision of the International Council to hold its next quinquennial meeting in the United States, which will occur in 1925. It was decided to hold the next biennial meeting of the Na-tional Council in Decatur, Illinois, in November, 1923, and the plan for the program as outlined by the executive committee was approved. This plan provides for department meetings where the work in detail of the affiliated societies along the established departmental lines of the Council will be discussed by the representatives; also for general sessions where subjects of interest to all organizations will be presented by speakers of national prominence. The executive officer through President Moore expressed appreciation that the International Council has accepted the invitation of the National Council to hold the next quinquennial meeting in the United States, and it was decided to hold this meeting at Washington, D. C., in April or May of 1925. Tentative plans were discussed for this meeting and various special committees, to carry forward the preparation and work of the same, were designated. Among the recommendations of the executive committee were the following: (a) That as far as possible the standing committees of the National Council be the same as those of the International Council, (b) That the National Council shall not initiate work but act as a clearing house for its affiliated bodies, (c) That the Council as soon as possible publish a bulletin containing news and notes regarding the work of the various organizations. These suggestions were heartily approved. The standing committees of the International Council which are duplicated in the National Council are: Finance, Press, Peace and Arbitration, Committee on Laws and Legal Position of Women, Suffrage and Rights of Citizenship, Equal Moral Standards and Traffic in Women and Children, Public Health, Education, Emigration and Immigration, and Trades and Professions.