[WomansExponent | Vol40 | 1911 | July | Issue: 1 | Title: Editorial Notes | Author: Unknown]

		EDITORIAL NOTES
	The Anti-Saloon League which did good
work for prohibition did not succeed in clos-
ing the saloons as we hoped to do, and ar-
dently desired, but it has paved the way for
the greater work which is to follow, and to
those who were zealous and worked dili-
gently much credit is due, and certainly the
effect of such a campaign cannot fail to pro-
duce results beneficial to those who took part
and the victory will be achieved sooner or
later for the wave of temperance is in the
air, and will eventually cover this country.
Notwithstanding the opposition is strong
and there are more against it than for it,
and there is money in favor of saloons, yet
the right in any cause is more than dollars
and cents. When there are no more saloons
other crimes will be lessened, as has already
been proven in the state of Kansas; and the
people will be more prosperous, and the
Lord will more abundantly bless the land for
the sake of those who love righteousness
and hate iniquity; and strong drink is a
compelling force in the cause of evil, and
the downfall of innocence and purity, and
the curse of cities and of nations.
	An uncommonly large number of wed-
dings have been solemnized in the Salt Lake
Temple during the month of June this year.
with wedding receptions at home afterwards.
These marriages of our young people are
very gratifying to the parents, and consid-
ering the number of Temples now in Utah
it seems there is no excuse for the young
men and women of the Latter-day Saints
to marry outside the Temple. There is no

[Column 2]
ceremony of marriage more perfect or more
beautiful in all its details than the cere-
mony in the Temples. There is a sacred-
ness there that is not felt outside the Temple.
	With the coming of summer and the real-
ly hot weather most of the women’s clubs
adjourn and many women and children hie
them away to the mountain resorts to rest
and recruit, and enjoy the luxury of cool
shades and refreshing breezes. Our moun-
tain retreats, canyons and vales are most
delightful places in which to escape for a
time from the rush, hurry and hustle of
busy city life, for we really are living in
what seems to Salt Lakers quite a large
modern city, we who have lived here many
years hardly realize its growth, it has been
so gradual, but if one pauses long enough to
consider what has been, and what it today
one can readily feel the upward trend to-
wards busy city life with many prevalent
vices and boisterous noises, that so oppress
one and affect one’s nerves, no wonder those
who can run away to the mountains and
vales, where it is possible to breathe freely
and sleep well, and come back refreshed and
invigorated to withstand the tumult of a
great city full of busy activity, bustle and
confusion. 
	The advertisement in this issue of the
paper of a class in Nursing and Obstetrics
calls to mind the great need there is of the
help of this kind for those who cannot
afford to pay the high prices of professional
nurses who have given years of time to prac-
tical study. Really it is an established fact
that every woman who looks forward to
motherhood should have some knowledge of
the physiology of her own body more than
that which is taught in the school-room.
Therefore we approve of all young women
taking a course of study in nursing. It is
also quite necessary, especially in country
places to have competent midwives, and in-
deed we believe that for all women, women
physicians are best. tI is good that we still
have a few graduated women physicians,
and it is much to be regretted that there are
so few of them. By all means let the Relief
Society encourage our sisters to study ob-
stetrics and pass a medical examination, so
that help can be obtained when needed
among the people. Knowledge is power is
as true now as it ever was, and a knowledge
of one’s own body is of the utmost conse-
quence to every woman, married, or single.


