[Column 1]
and his party, and attacked the governor,
the council, the assembly, everybody and
everything connected with the ruling class.
Squibs, lampoons, ballads, witticisms, satire
and whatever would serve its purpose, were
made use of without stint. The people
felt they had an organ in which to air their
grievances and make known their wants,
and they fully appreciated their privilege in
this way. It was indeed the forerunner of
the Heralds, the Tribunes, Suns, Worlds,
and Journals of later years.
	Bradford replied, defending the govern-
or and his party, but his editorials lacked
the pith and vigor of Zanger’s, as all may
see who will go to the public library for
the information and compare the two.
	At length the government rose up and
did what increased the influence of this ed-
itor, by declaring four issues of the Journal
“libelous” and ordering them burned by the
public hangman, at the same time direct-
ing the mayor and alderman, who were of
the popular party, to attend and witness the
ceremony. The spirit of resistance was
strong, and the mayor and magistrates re-
fused to obey the order. They declared it
arbitrary and without authority of law.
Then the governor, who was a weak man,
and his advisers went still further; they
seized Zanger, the editor, and threw him
into prison on a charge of criminal libel.
Now his friends multiplied; where he had
one before he now had ten or more. They
rallied, not so much for him, perhaps, as
for the defense of a free press, and the
rights of the people to criticize their offi-
cials. The excitement spread to the neigh-
boring colonies, where the issue of the trial
was looked forward to with the greatest
interest.
	The leaders of the popular party at that
time were James Alexander and William
Smith. Both at once volunteered to defend
Zanger. Smith had been city recorder and
was noted for his captivating eloquence. Al-
exander had been surveyor general and was
also noted for his legal ability, as well as his
silver tongue. Unfortunately for the case
in hand their zeal led them wrong, and they
made the grave mistake at the outset of
boldly challenging the legality of the com-
missions of Chief Justice De Lancey and
Justice Phillipse, the two judges that com-
posed the court that was to try Zanger, on
the ground that they were not worded in
the usual form and were issued by the gov-
ernor without the consent of the council.
	Judge De Lancey was of Huguenot an-
cestry, of the aristocratic party, stout, florid,
pompous in manner, a great stickler for the
dignity and prerogatives of his office, and
held this plea of the attorneys to be a gross
contempt of court. As soon as he could
command his voice, he said: “You have
brought it to that pass, sirs, that either we
must go from the bench or you from the
bar.” Excluding them from further prac-
tice he assigned John Chambers to defend
Zanger. There was no appeal for disbarred
attorneys in that day, but the opposers were
men of resource and they hastened to Phil-
adelphia and secured, to assist Chambers,
Andrew Hamilton, reputed to be the ablest
and most eloquent advocate then in the col-
onies. At the same time, through the
press and by private conversation in the
clubs and in coffee houses, they made public

[Column 2]
the story of their own wrongs, and the mer-
its and demerits of the case.
	When the trial was called early in July,
1735, Hamilton appeared eager for the fray
and was greeted with shouts of approval
by the people who saw in him the cham-
pion of popular rights. His first reply to
the indictment was that the articles in the
Journal could not be libelous because they
were true. Bradley, the king’s attorney-
general, took exception to this plea and
quoted the old English law that even the
truth, if repeated with intent to injure an-
other, was libelous and punishable as such.
So, for weeks, the legal battle raged with
varying fortunes to the combatants, and
for weeks the entire body of the colonies
waited to see if the press was to be muzzled,
or left to be the Argus-eyed exposer of
official corruption and the defender of the 
people’s rights. At length, after a charge
by the judge unfavorable to the prisoner,
the case was given to the jury, who, after
being out but a few moments, returned with
a verdict of
	“Not guilty.”
	The people received it with shouts of ap-
proval, and were so delighted that they
would have carried Hamilton on their
shoulders but he would not permit it.
	The corporation, however, tendered him
a banquet, at which he was presented with
the freedom of the city in a gold box; and
the same evening a grand ball was given in
his honor. In this first distinctly avowed
contest for their rights the people of New
York won a great victory.
	What rapid strides have been made in
journalism, and what power has emanated
from the press since that eventful time when
newspapers were young and had to struggle
for an existence! Now we may well say the
newspapers “set the pace” for communities
—it is not easy to determine how great
their influence is over the people in all de-
partments of art, science and commercial-
ism on land and sea in peace and in war.
	Long live the Press—the Press forever!


