VOLUME FORTY-ONE.
	It is impossible to express to our sisters
the disappointment we feel in having been
obliged to give up for the time being the
idea of presenting the EXPONENT in the
form of a magazine. However, we must
submit to the inevitable, meanwhile clinging
to the hope that before long it will be fully
as practicable as it already is desirable to
make the change.
	It is now, we think, admitted without dis-
pute that the Relief Society cannot and
must not be without an organ of its own
as a means of communication throughout
the organization. One has but to look over
the pages of the bound volumes of the EX-
PONENT for forty years past to realize most
fully what this little paper has done for the
women of Zion. Not only has the great
organization of the Relief Society been con-
stantly and loyally represented in its work
along many lines, but the Y. L. M. I. A. and
Primary also had in it a friend and cham-
pion before either of these organizations
had an organ of its own. To go even
further back, the early Retrenchment asso-
ciations, both senior and junior, found these
columns a willing medium in promulgating
their plans and purposes. The silk industry
and many other phases of women’s early
activities were here explained and pro-
moted. Indeed, every subject of interest
to women and every stake of Zion have
always had the freest opportunity for rep-
resentation in this little paper.
	The delay in issuing the present number
as the beginning of the new volume has
been due to the fact that we fully expected
to be able with this anniversary to present
the paper in new form. Reluctantly, and with
deep personal disappointment, we perceive 
now that this hope must be deferred. The
advice of experienced business men, well
acquainted not only with the resources of
this paper, but also with the publishing
business generally, constrains us to this
postponement of a cherished wish, and we
feel under all the circumstances that it is the
wiser and indeed the only safe thing to do.
But we renew the assurance that it is only
a temporary delay. The need for a circu-
lating organ is too apparent to require ar-
gument. Similarly, the ever-growing im-
portance of the society and its work de-
mands that this official organ be worthy and
adequate in every sense. It may therefore
be taken for granted that on our part there


will be no cessation of effort to accomplish
the desired end;  and we rejoice in the con-
fidence that our friends and patrons on their
part will be equally persistent in yielding
financial assistance and hearty moral sup-
port in achieving an object so near to the
hearts of us all.


