[Column 1]
Vose had risen to her feet and with the same
complacent dignity that had characterized
her throughout her whole life, she inter-
posed, “My dear brother, these men are our
guests for tonight, do not expose our family
affairs to them, nor here before these young
people. Let us speak soberly together and
apart if needs be.” Edward Laselle looked
like one amazed; he had also risen to his
feet when Mr. Vose accosted him in that
recriminating tone, in fact he had expected
a scene of some sort, though until he entered
the house that evening he knew not if Dor-
othy was living or dead, nor whether the
place was in possession of any he had
formerly been acquainted with; but he had
been sent out into the New England States
to preach the Gospel and his footsteps had
led him there.
	The explanations that followed that night
were satisfactory as far as was now possi-
ble. Alone in the old familiar parlor where
they had sat many an evening in “the long
ago,” though somewhat modernized now,
Edward Laselle and Dorothy Vose, with
her brother, talked over the events of the
past so closely interwoven with their lives.
She explained to him how only a few days
before she had found the lost ring, then
the unopened letter, though she did not
mention the auburn curl; Edward betrayed
much more emotion than she did, and Mr.
Vose was perhaps quite as much astonished
as either. Mr. Laselle did not offer any
solution of the unexplained mystery, not
did he ask if Miss Vose was still single, he
seemed fearful of venturing upon untried
ground; but Dorothy, who had seen him in
a dream, inquired what his mission was,
and what book he had under his arm when
he came into the room. Thus a conversa-
tion began that lasted for hours and was
renewed again in the early morning.
	When Aunt Dorothy retired for the night
she had much to reflect upon that was new
to her. It was the beginning of the fulfill-
ment of her dream; she was impressed with
the testimony borne to her by the “Mor-
mon” Elder and so was her brother; they
believed the truth as soon as it was made
known to them. How wonderful it all
seemed! Had Mr. Laselle arrived at the
house previous to the discovery of the letter
he would have been turned away without a
hearing, but the finding of the ring and the
letter had so softened the heart of Miss
Dorothy, that she was willing to bury all
old grievances and make him welcome. It
was not long before all the household were
ready for baptism and as Aunt Dorothy
dreamed so it came to pass, that the ice was
cut up in the woods between the big rocks
and there on a peaceful Sabbath morning
one week from the date of their arrival the
whole Vose family were baptized by Ed-
ward Laselle, the “Mormon” Elder. The
Elders had remained in that vicinity during
the week preaching every evening and ex-
pounding the doctrines of the Church as
opportunities offered. There were several
others besides the Vose family that received
baptism, and ere long a branch of the
Church was organized.
	Before Edward Laselle left the neighbor-
hood he sought an interview with Miss Dor-
othy Vose which she granted him. He
learned when she was baptized that she was
still only plain Miss Dorothy Vose, and he
was desirous naturally of learning more,
and yet he felt he had no claim upon her
confidence. The interview he sought was

[Column 2]
cheerfully granted him in the old parlor,
and there he told the story of his life.
	Not obtaining any reply to his letter and
confidently believing her to be too proud to
relent, or perchance in love with another, he
had asked Mary Stacy to be his wife and
she had consented without hesitation or re-
serve. Almost immediately after their
marriage they had taken “the Western
fever” and had gone out to Ohio.
	There at an early period after the Church
was established in Kirtland he had heard
the Gospel and embraced it, and ever since
that time he had been a firm believer and
advocate of its principles. When he was
called to go out as a missionary his appoint-
ment was to the New England States, and
his inclination had led him to visit the
scenes of his youth.
	Mary his wife had been dead a number
of years, his daughters had kept house for
him, but they were all married now and he
was quite alone.
	And so in the same old parlor Edward
and Dorothy forgave each other, “kissed
and made up;” we will leave the rest to the
readers’ imagination and only tell them
that this time they married, and Dorothy
consoled herself with the thought that had
it not been for the misunderstanding be-
tween them, Edward would probably not
have been a “Mormon,” nor would she
have had the privilege of hearing the glad
tidings. And if she had not found the old
love letters, she would have allowed her
brother to send him away that Sabbath
evening as he fully intended to do. There
might be another story written on their mar-
ried life and what happened, but we only
add, that the Vose family gathered with the
Saints along with many others from that
vicinity.					E. B. W.


