[Column 1]
THE GENERAL FEDERATION OF
		WOMEN’S CLUBS.
	The eleventh biennial convention of the
General Federation of Women’s Clubs held
recently in San Francisco was by far the
most important and interesting convention
held thus far. In former years the work
of the club women, while educational and
social, has not shown such power and con-
trol over the vital questions of the hour as
was evidenced at this last biennial. The
most important thing manifested by the
women’s clubs is their interest in civic con-
ditions. “From Browning to garbage-cans,”
from social amusements to street improve-
ments, from sentimental charity work to
real tenement house reforms, is a long leap
for women’s clubs, but it is actually being
taken by the wide awake women of these
organizations.
	For a week prior to the gathering in San
Francisco, the club women of Salt Lake City
united in forming a reception committee to
entertain delegates on the way. Several
hundred visiting delegates passed through
Salt Lake City and remained over a brief
time sight-seeing, but the principal feature
of the entertainment was when the car con-
taining the officials of the General Federa-

[Column 2]
tion arrived. These ladies were received
by the local club women with open arms and
everything possible done for their enter-
tainment. A mass meeting was held in the
Tabernacle, where after a few words of
welcome by Mrs. A. J. Gorham, the presi-
dent of the State Federation for Utah, the
visitors made brief talks along their differ-
ent lines of work, after which an organ re-
cital was given by Professor McClellan, and
musical numbers by Professor Brines, tenor
soloist, and Willard Weihe, violinist. The
ladies were then escorted to a luncheon at
the Commercial Club, where covers were
laid for five hundred guests. The luncheon
was followed by an informal reception at
the Hotel Utah, after which the visitors
were escorted to their train and left for San
Francisco. The Utah delegation number-
ing about fifty left the following day. The
Utah women are very proud of the attention
paid them at the biennial and especially so
of the compliment to our state in the selec-
tion of Mrs. McMahon, a Utah woman, as
general auditor for the federation. The
work of Mrs. McMahon in preparing the
program for the biennial just held was most
arduous but so generally satisfactory that
this recognition, though unexpected, was
well deserved.
	The refusal to take any position on the
suffrage question was something of a dis- 
appointment, especially to the women of the
West and we can not help but regret that
so influential a body of intelligent women
should not have realized that the best
weapon they could have to further their
great work along reform and educational
lines would be the ballot. The most strik-
ing figure at the gathering is said to have
been the Baroness Bertha Von Suttner,
the woman who has done so much for
universal peace in foreign lands; and while
all these beautiful American women paid
her homage and gloried in passing her reso-
lution by acclamation, they refused to in-
dorse the work of a still greater woman,
their own country woman, the late Susan B.
Anthony, whose great work for suffrage
has also included higher education, universal
peace and every reform that would benefit
humanity. The resolutions adopted and
which will undoubtedly be urged upon the
government of the different states and cities
are as follows:
	1—That a vote of thanks be extended to
President Taft for his appointment of Miss
Julia Lathrop to the head of the children’s
bureau.
	2—That the federation unite with the
government in erecting a monument at Pan-
ama in commemoration of the completion
of the Panama canal.
	3—Indorsement of the good roads move-
ment and of a great national highway to be
known as the Lincoln highway.
	4—Conservation of natural resources and
the prevention of the curtailment of forest
reserves.
	5—Preservation of Mammoth Cave, Ken-
tucky.
	6—Bills for the betterment of defective
children.
	7—Favoring the appointment by the na-
tional education association of a committee
to outline a course of study for sex hygiene,
to be taught in all normal schools.
	8—Appointment of clubs to co-operate
with agricultural colleges and economic
organizations for the study of economics.
	9—Favoring a bill to create the establish-


ment of a bureau of national parks under
the department of the interior; also pro-
testing against the curtailment of the appro-
priations to fight fires in the national forests.
	10—Favoring women inspectors for the
mmigrants at all ports of landing. 
	11—Indorsement of the plan to have wo-
men police in all the larger cities of this
country.
	12—Opposing prison contract labor and
pleading for aid to the families of priso-
ners by diverting the profit that may result
from the marketing of goods not in compe-
tition to their benefit.
	13—Indorsement of the study of Bible
literature and the placing of Bible study
upon the program of literary clubs.
	14—Furtherance of high ideals in the
drama and on the professional stage.
	15—Indorsement of the workmen’s com-
pensation act.
	16—Call for federal aid for vocational
training for boys and girls.


17— Indorsement of the plans for medical
inspection in schools, for school nurses and
for out-of-door schools.
	18—Reindorsement of the pure food and
quarantine laws.
	19—Demand that the president of the
United States reorganize the department of
agriculture so that the pure food and drug
acts be better enforced and “the law not be
prostituted for special interests.”
	20—Favoring accurate registration of
births and deaths.
	21—Indorsement of the “white slave”
laws and protesting against the light senten-
ces meted out to convicted offenders.
	22—Indorsement of the plan for study of
political science as a preparation for citizen-
ship in clubs.
	23—Protest against the comic supple-
ments of the Sunday newspapers.
	24—Protest against imposing any legal
disability on woman that is not imposed on
man.
	25—Indorsement of uniform marriage
and divorce laws.


