OFFICE FOR WOMEN.
	It has been quite noticeable that notwith-
standing Utah is the second oldest suffrage
state, her women hold fewer offices than
the other four states where suffrage ob-
tains. This fact is referred to at times with
some criticism.  The women themselves ex-
plain the matter that while they enjoy the
right of franchise they, generally speaking,
do not care for office, at any rate sufficiently
to enter the arena of politics and battle for
position.  Still it would only be justice to
that part of the voters, a possible half, and
all men must admit the better half, to place
at least one state office on each party ticket,
not to mention the county, city, and school
positions.  That those who seem to control
the work of the conventions and elections
have been anything but generous towards
the women of the state, is quite evident, and
especially was this noticeable at the recent
conventions held in this city, when the Dem-
ocratic party did not even nominate a woman
for place,  and the Republican party voted
down the one nominee whose name had
been presented—a woman admittedly capa-
ble in every particular, one who had been
tried and proven efficient as a county officer,
and one who would have filled the position
with dignity and credit.
	We have met similar defeats in elections
and appointments on school boards, posi-
tions where the service of women is espe-
cially needed and for which they would seem
especially fitted.  This fact is recognized
even in England and many of the eastern
states where suffrage does not yet exist; but
either from prejudice or thoughtlessness it
seems slow in making its way here. Ap-
peals alike to the justice and to the gal-
lantry of the sterner sex appear to be in
vain. Need they be surprised to awaken
some day and find that the women have
taken courage and entered the political
field for themselves and with the force of
the ballot set out to win the rights and posi-
tions desired?
	It is to be regretted that small excuses,
sometimes ridiculous ones, keep women
away from the primaries and the polls, the
two places where if they really desired to
hold office they ought to go. There are so
very many reforms necessary in social gov-
ernment in which women are especially in-
terested and for which they are constantly
working, that it is surprising to note their
apathy in political matters.  If the woman
bread earner is to have an equal chance
with the man bread earner in private em-
ployment, why not the same equal chance
in public office?  Let the ballot tell.


