[Column 1]
	SOME OLD LOVE LETTERS.
	The romance of life helps one to bear its
burdens; matter of fact people to the con-
trary notwithstanding. And perhaps one
of the most interesting things that invaria-
bly lends charm to real life is a love letter,
whether it is a few words ungrammatically
written, or an epistle filled with the choicest
language; it matters not if the person by
whom the words were penned is capable of
pouring into the composition the true elo-
quence of the soul, it finds its counterpart
in the heart of the receiver, and is forever
cherished among the most valuable treas-
ures. I am aware of the old saying, it is
easy to put things on paper, but it is also
tolerably easy to discern whether the heart
is in it or not. There may be exceptions to
this rule as there are to all others, but many
a happy union has been consummated be-
cause of some outpouring of the human
heart on paper; and many a reconciliation
has been effected through a love letter
where a misunderstanding or a lover’s quar-
rel had existed. Some strange things have
happened too, worth relating for the amuse-
ment of a winter evening, for though we
speak of Spring as the lover’s season, and
there is not a month in all the year more
appropriate for weddings or when more
unions are consummated than “June the
month of roses and love,” yet the courting
has been done beforehand in the long winter
evenings and finished off possibly in the
lovely Spring time, with the perfume of
violets in the air and the sweet songs of the
wild birds in their ecstacy, nest building;
by the brink of some mossy brook or flow-
ing fountain, or under the apple boughs 
when the pink and white blossoms were
fluttering to the ground. But apropos of
old love letters we have a most enchanting
tale to tell.
	In the old-fashioned houses of the
last century there was generally a garret
and these places were the repository of
everything that the family wanted to put
out of sight, and occasionally some treasure
would be lost among the heaps of rubbish
carried up there, when the clearing up or
house cleanings were in progress.
	This story is a very old one, and has not
been put in a book or published to the world
before, so that although it is old it will
nevertheless be as good as new, for it has
been well-kept. The principal actors in the
pretty drama are dead long ago, but we do
not even at this late date feel justified in
giving their real names.
	A little girl prying about among the old
lumber in the garret at her grandmother’s
one day, hunting doll rags, found a bundle
of old letters tied with a very faded and
soiled yellow lute-string ribbon wound so
many times around it that she thought it
would make a sash for her dolly and pro-
ceeded forthwith to untie the knots, and
scatter the letters among the rubbish, never
dreaming that in so doing, she was divulg-
ing a secret or disclosing a treachery. But
so it proved.
	“Where in the world did you get that
ribbon?” said Aunt Dorothy one day to her
little grand niece who was playing with her
dolly in the drawing-room, and then such a
crowd of memories came rushing back as
she took the once pretty ribbon in her fin-
gers, fondling it, that little Helen suspected
she had done something naughty, but the
child was on the best of terms with Aunt

[Column 2]
Dorothy, and as if to make reparation said,
“I found it in the garret and washed it for
my new doll, it was tied in such hard knots
around a bundle of old papers with ink so
faded no one could ever read them.” “What
did you do with them, child ?” said Aunt
Dorothy, excitedly. “I threw them down
again in the corner with a whole lot of other
things.” “You didn’t tear them then nor
burn them up?” “O, no, why I thought
grandma wouldn’t like that; I only wanted
the pretty ribbon; such a nice pattern.”
“Very odd,” replied Aunt Dorothy, in an
absent way, and was soon slowly and
thoughtfully wending her way up the stair-
case, and then on again to the garret, talk-
ing to herself as she went; “I wonder what
letters could have been hid away up there
for all these years. It’s forty years or more
since I wore that ribbon, how happy I was
then and what a bright future I anticipated,
and then came those evil days, when a dark
shadow lurked in the horizon which sur-
rounded me. O, why have these remem-
brances come back; just at the sight of a
faded ribbon?” Sure enough, why do those
tender days that are gone come back and
haunt us, when we have groped blindly
through the darkness and sorrow and find
ourselves calmed by tile distance that divides
us from the dismal past!’ Thus musing,
Miss Dorothy Vose mounted the last step
and surveyed the garret searchingly; she
went through pile after pile of cast off cloth-
ing, etc., and just as the last rays of the
setting sun shed their pale yellow light in
through the open window, she discovered
some papers peeping from out a corner and
tremblingly reached out to take the shat-
tered workbox containing them, for such it
proved to be in her hands. She shook like
an aspen tree as she lifted it, and it fell in
fragments at her feet, and out from the
papers rolled down among the rubbish on
the floor a ring with a glowing setting.
For a moment she seemed stunned, a great
sob came swelling up in her throat, and her
mouth was dry and parched, and she sank
down, upon the floor as pathetically as if
she had been a beautiful young girl still in
her teens, instead of an old maid of half a
century.
	But no one would have guessed her age,
for she was still strikingly handsome and
exquisitely neat in her dress, and had that
sort of delicate way of adjusting everything
that we call stylish, the draping of her brown
silk dress lay about her in soft folds; and
with her eyes suffused with tears, she gazed
wonderingly upon the lost ring she had
found after all these long years. So many
times she had ransacked boxes, drawers and
closets, in possible and impossible places,
and now it had come to light too late, when
her hair was silvered o’er and her eyes faded
with weeping. An emerald ring, engraved
“D. V.” from “E. L.,” such a peculiar
shape, a rare beauty she had once thought,
and now what a train of recollections it
brought back, how well she remembered the
night, he had given it to her under the great
elm tiee, in the yard, and pledged his faith,
his honor, the devotion, of a life time, and
begged her to be his promised bride, and
with maiden blushes, and modest downcast
eyes more eloquent than words, she had
given him his silent answer. The few
months that followed the betrothal had been
full of sweetness and the tenderest associa-
tion lovers could enjoy whose sentiments
were so near akin. But in their case the

[Column 3]
old adage proved true, “The course of true
love never runs smooth.”
	But we must not leave Aunt Dorothy
shivering in the garret while we go over her
past life, and tell what befell her, and why
she was a lonely old maid in the home of
her childhood, where the third generation
was now growing up, instead of being a
happy grandmother like her sister-in-law
who was only a few years older. 
	Singular coincidences sometimes tran-
spire that night almost leads us to believe
in the fatuity of certain events acting upon
each other years had passed by since, any-
thing had happened to call up these tender
reminiscences in Aunt Dorothy’s past and
now just a faded old ribbon had awakened
a torrent of emotions, and a flood of events
came rushing onward.
	The shades of evening were falling and
Miss Vose gathered up the broken box and
scraps of paper in her black silk apron, and
fled down the stairs to her own room as
though all the ghosts of those haunted
memories were following her. Once in her
chamber with the door securely fastened,
she picked up piece by piece the broken
workbox where these papers had been hid-
den away. She knew the box well, it had
been a handsome one inlaid with pearl, but
now fallen apart, disclosing its contents.
But how came the ring in the possession
of the owner of the box; that was a mystery
she could never expect to unravel, not even
if she could make up her mind to read the
letters, which she hardly dared to think of
yet though they were in her keeping. She
took the faded fragments one by one and
laid them together, and the broken box and
put them in a drawer and turned the key as
if to shut them out of her sight, and away
from the temptation of reading them. Her
face was paler than usual, and her limbs
quivered as she descended to the dining-
room when supper was announced, but ap-
parently no one noticed anything unusual
in her face or manner except little Helen,
who had not forgotten how strangely her
aunt had questioned her about the yellow
ribbon, and when they were leaving the
table the child approached her saying, “Are
you ill, Aunt Dorothy?” “No child, not ill,
only thinking, thinking of the long ago,
when I wore the faded yellow ribbon.”
“Were you a little girl then like me?” in-
quired the little grand-niece. “O, no, I was
a young lady with great expectations ” said
Aunt Dorothy with a strong emphasis on
the two last words. Little Helen looked
puzzled, but with childish persistency she
pursued her inquiries: “Was that when your
picture was painted that hangs in grandpa’s
room over his desk?” “My picture was
painted so long ago I really don’t know. I
never look at it.” “It is not like your mam-
ma’s, Aunt Dorothy, is it?” “Yes, a little.”
“I believe you had the yellow ribbon on,
that’s what made you take so much notice of
it when you saw it today.” Miss Vose was
glad the child was satisfied and soon after
retired for the night; she could not, how-
ever, yet make up her mind to read the
letters, a sort of dread of discovering some
disagreeable secret seemed to forbid the
perusal. She tried in vain to sleep, the
wretched past came so vividly to mind, that
the gray dawn of morning found her still
tossing upon her pillows, her head aching
and eyelids heavy with weeping. Finally,
she fell asleep; the bright sunshine stream-
ing into her room awoke her, and she


