NURSES’ HOME,  LATTER-DAY SAINTS’ HOSPITAL.

of the acquirements and intelligence of a
nurse. There have been a large number of
young women graduated from the Latter-
day Saints’ hospital and as one corps leaves
it is necessary to replenish the ranks in order
that the work in the hospital may not be
retarded.
	In June of this year fifteen young women
completed the three-year course and left
the hospital to follow their chosen profes-
sion in broader fields, independently and at
their own discretion. That they are well
prepared for their work is a certainty, for
after the military discipline and training
during the three years term they must have
received an experience and education along
their line of work that would well qualify
them to meet the emergencies and necessi-
ties the world outside offers them.
	At the close of the training each year
appropriate and delightful exercises are
held in honor of the graduates, when each
girl is the recipient of a class pin as well as
her diploma. At these exercises there are
always beautiful music and felicitous

[Column 2]
speeches, followed by a reception, re-
freshments and dancing—this in rec-
ognition of the girls’ hard work and
valuable services and as a fitting close
to their course of training. It surely
is a beautiful sight to see all the girls in
their becoming uniforms and to realize that
they have chosen as their mission the work
to ameliorate human suffering.
	The class of 1915 begins this month
and is already being formed. We would
urge the young women of the state, those
who desire a good practical training, to
avail themselves of this opportunity. Not
only is the training gained invaluable, but
the profession in itself is most remunerative
and no calling could be more in keeping
with an ideal life than that of nursing the
sick. In the Relief Society work it is espe-
cially necessary. Scarcely a day or night
but what these relief workers are called
upon. If we had at our command a few
trained nurses among us we would certainly
find our work much lighter and more satis-
factory. In fact, every ward should see to
it that they have at least one trained nurse,
whose services they could have when occa-
sion requires.
	We trust that the class of 1915 will be far
larger than any heretofore.


Mrs. Isabelle Earll of Joplin City, Mo.,
has been appointed by the County Court of
Jasper County to fill the office of justice of
the peace made vacant by the death of her
husband. During the six years that Mr.
Earll served as justice of the peace Mrs.
Earll has served as his clerk and stenog-
rapher. Except for hearing cases she has
done all of the work of the office. She has
issued warrants, summonses, attachments,
executions, garnishees and all other legal
forms originating in the office of a justice
of the peace. Mrs. Earll has a twelve-year-
old daughter who will probably assist in
the office.


