		BEAR RIVER STAKE.
	The semi-annual conference was held at
the Garland Social Hall, Jan. 12, 1912, at
10 and 2 o’clock respectively. Stake Presi-
dent Milton H. Welling, Bishops K. H.
Fridahl and R. G. Watt, Elder W. Wallace
of the Stake Religion Class, Sisters Alice
Merrill Horne and Sarah McClelland, of
the General Board, were present, also nine
Stake Board members and a very good rep-
resentation of officers and members from
each of the twelve societies.
	President Margaret W. Manning pre-
sided. The opening and closing prayers of
the forenoon session were offered by Bish- 
ops K. H. Fridahl and R. G. Watt respec-
tively, while Sister Mary A. Green and

[Column 2]
Elder W. Wallace offered the opening and
closing prayers of the afternoon session.
	President M. W. Manning gave a very
favorable report of the condition of the
Relief Society in the Stake, showing by the
splendid attendance at the monthly officers’
meeting that the sisters are interested in
their work. Ninety-three dollars was read-
ily given and forwarded for the relief of
the flood and famine sufferers. During the
month of May sixteen days had been spent
in the temple by Relief Society sisters from
the Bear River Stake.
	Stake Treasurer Anna W. Larson con-
ducted an exercise, illustrating the “Home
Work” She told a beautiful story, shew-
ing the lasting influence of early stories,
songs, thoughts, etc., on young minds. Also
gave a practical story that correlated with
the song, “Sweeping and Dusting,” which
the congregation sang.
	President Milton H. Welling made en-
couraging remarks and commended the sis-
ters for their faithful and energetic work
in the Relief Society.
	Sisters Horne and McClelland each very
ably addressed both sessions of the confer-
ence. Sister McClelland, having been a
missionary, cited many interesting incidents
connected with her work and especially in-
terested her audience with a detailed account
of her visit to Nauvoo and surrounding
places connected with the early history of
the Latter-day Saints. Sister Horne, in
speaking of individual possibilities, said:
“We all have them and it is for us to de-
velop them and help to develop them in
others. We can all go to Heaven if we
want to, and we can make Heaven here on
earth by right living. We should look for
the beautiful in nature and in the whole
world.”
	During the afternoon session, Sister Essie
E. Foulger very beautifully rendered the
vocal solo, “Babylon,” and Master Earl
Evans gave a piano selection in an able
manner.
	An excellent spirit prevailed during both
sessions of the conference and those who
gave parts on the program were attentively
listened to by the audience.
	During the intermission a refreshing
lunch, that had been prepared by the sisters
from the various wards, was served by the
Garland Relief Society sisters.
	Ex-President, Julia A. Richards showed
that her thoughts and love were with us
by sending some beautiful flowers which
brightened the room and the spirits of those
present.
	We were also made glad by the message
from “Aunt Em” and the General Board
that their love and blessing were extended
to us in our work.
			ALICE S. LARSON,
					Stake Secretary.

