[Column 1]
started up suddenly but lay down for a
moment or two and thought over again the
dream from which she had been aroused.
She had certainly had a remarkable dream.
	At the breakfast table the family noticed
her pale face and languid manner and anx-
iously inquired what the matter was, for
they all dearly loved Aunt Dorothy; she
replied perhaps the peculiar dream she had
that morning was the cause, and her brother
and his daughter joined in the request that
she should tell the dream.
	And she related it as follows: “I dreamed
a stranger came to the house and told us of
some golden plates, that had been shown by
an angel to a young man, who had handled
them and had seen the characters engraved
upon them in a language not known to him,
but afterwards had translated them by the
inspiration of the Holy Ghost, and the trans-
lation had been published in a book; and he
had the book with him and showed it to us,
and then the scene changed and we were in
the woods about a mile from here where
the river is deep between those big rocks,
and the same stranger stood in the water
and baptized us all, and I shivered with
cold and woke with the sun shining into
my room.”
	“Dorothy,” said her brother, addressing
her, “did you know the man who came
bearing this Gospel message?” Dorothy
replied rather reluctantly, “I think I did, it
was one we knew intimately in days gone
by.” Mr. Vose knew very well what his
sister meant when she spoke thus, for they
never had mentioned his name for years,
even to each other. “I cannot think why I
should dream of him after all these long
years, but it was a singular dream, don’t
you think so?” “Very strange, but then
you must not think of it, you look quite ill
and sad, and if you brood over such hal-
lucinations and night visions, you will be
getting ‘the blues’ in earnest.”
	Dorothy did not tell her brother how she
had found the missing ring and the letters
the day before, reason enough why she
should dream of her old lover, but during
the day the dream and the reality both
troubled her, and she resolved to put an end
to her imaginary fears by going over the
old letters to see why they had been left
behind, when those whom she was sure they
most concerned had fled like fugitives and
had never returned.
	What was that lady’s amazement when
she put on her spectacles and looked at the
papers to find one of her own letters, ad-
dressed to Miss Dorothy Vose, Shutesbury,
Mass. It was sealed with a pink wafer and
on it was the initial “L.” She paused in a
tremor of excitement. Why had this letter
lain there all these years hidden away from
her, and she unknowing of its ever having
been written. She could not open it now,
it seemed too much joy—and yet she knew
not what it contained, but it was from Ed-
ward, her lover—O, so long ago—and yet
she could never hear his name, without her
heart beating more rapidly and her face
betraying the emotion felt within.
	She took up the fragments of paper one
by one, and found some in his handwriting
addressed to Miss Mary Stacy, her cousin
and rival, she could not and would not read
them, she fancied she knew the purport of
their contents. Her own letter she kissed
again and again, and tried to summon
courage to read it, she had no need to break
the pretty seal, for the corners were worn

[Column 2]
and it was easy to open the folds, for those
were not the days of envelopes, remember;
she turned the letter over and over, until a
curl of pretty auburn hair fell from it, and
she could no longer resist the desire to see
what he had written in the long ago.
	The auburn curl was more than the em-
erald ring, for it was part of himself; he
might be dead, she knew not; but this pretty
curl was something she could keep; how
vexed she had felt when Helen found the
ribbon, but now how glad, it had led to the
unfolding of a mystery, the lost ring, and
the auburn curl, two treasures she would
cherish while life lasted; the hatred and
jealousy of her cousin were gone now,
though the sorrow had never left her heart,
but she had long ago forgiven them both,
and would have been glad to know if they
were still living, for love outlives envy,
jealousy and rivalry, it is purer, and better,
and more enduring.
	And the letter, methinks I hear you say;
it was hours before dear Aunt Dorothy had
the courage to open its folds. It was like a
message from an unknown region, out of
the beautiful past. At last she took up the
scraps and put them together, for as she
tried to open it the pieces fell apart—and
her heart almost stood still while she gazed
upon the words—“Miss Dorothy Vose once
my affianced wife:” the letter was dated
Boston, Mass., Jan., 1805, and in it he
poured out in burning words his love, his
disappointment, reproaching her for incon-
stancy and entreating her to accept a lock
of his hair, that in some lonely hour when
she had forgotten his devotion she might be
reminded of him; the ring he had given her
he asked her to keep but never to wear it
again, as it had been a pledge of mutual
love and constancy as well as of their be-
trothal.
	In conclusion he said: “I have long been
aware that your cousin Mary loved me, and
when she returns to Boston, if I hear no
more from you, I shall ask her hand in mar-
riage. If I cannot win the heart of her
whom I have chosen out of all the world,
I will devote myself to making another
happy, who loves me with unutterable ten-
derness. Farewell! and if we never meet
again remember that you have driven me
from you with your pride and hauteur.”
	The words were cruel and hastily penned
no doubt, but poor Dorothy never had the
opportunity to reply to them nor had she
even known that Edward deigned to make
any explanation of his singular conduct.
	It was true that Ma[-]y loved him, she had
never disguised her feelings in her cousin’s
presence, though she was her guest and
aware of the engagement. Dorothy saw
her lover d[---] away from her, and her
modesty and r[---]cence kept her from any
demonstration of her suffering. Edward
attributed it to coldness and indifference.
Mary was well versed in the art of coquet-
ry, and it was an easy matter to win her
country cousin’s lover; her heart was in the
matter, too, for though she had gone
through two or three gay seasons, since she
became of age, no one had ever interested
her like Edward Laselle.
	He was indeed a brilliant young man,
with bright prospects in store and it was not
strange that she should love him, but he
was blind not to see that behind the reserve
of Miss Dorothy there was a depth of senti-
ment that her cousin Mary was incapable of
feeling; she was a gay butterfly of fashion,

[Column 3]
fond of dancing and society, while her
country cousin was staid and womanly, fond
of home-life and ready to make sacrifices
for the happiness of others instead of seek-
ing her own.
	But we will not go back into the details
of the occurrences that had left Miss Doro-
thy alone in the old home, there is no need,
for in a short time after the finding of the
letter and the ring, her dream came to pass
literally.
	One Sabbath evening in mid-winter the
family were seated round the fire talking
over the sermon they had heard that day,
and Aunt Dorothy expressed some dissatis-
faction as to the genuineness of the preach-
er: “It did not come from his heart,” she
argued, and was therefore ineffective; “what
would I give to hear the voice of a true
preacher of righteousness?” added the lady,
and she continued, “hear the Scriptures ex-
pounded as I understand them; I am weary
of the tone and manner of our orthodox
ministers, it has grown monotonous to me.”
“Dorothy,” said her brother, who was the
only one who ever dared to disagree with
the lady, “don’t you think you are growing
very extreme in your ideas? Is there any-
thing that comes up to your standard of ex-
cellence? Aren’t you looking for a miracle?
Remember these are not the days of the
Savior and his Apostles, though we do pro-
fess to be his followers.”
	“Yes, but we’ve all gone astray, priests
and people, and for me I am longing for
something stronger to lean upon than these
fragmentary discourses that have no soul in
them; there is nothing Christ-like about
them,” replied his sister.
	How many in this country and across the
sea in other lands were influenced about that
period, and since, by the spirit of the times;
a forerunner of what was about to transpire!
	That very evening after the conversation
here related and other remarks upon the
same subject, the great old-fashioned
knocker on the front door made a clanging
sound echoing through the house, and when
the door was opened two strangers in heavy
overcoats and frosty beards announcing
themselves as missionaries asked for a
night’s lodging.
	They were not kept out in the cold air
many seconds, for this was a hospitable
house and being a little distance from the
town, travelers often stopped for dinner or
over night. When the gentlemen were
ushered into the warm sittingroom, they
were kindly greeted by the master and mis-
tress as well as the younger members of the
household and Mr. Vose inquired if they
had taken supper. Something in the voice
of the elder man sounded familiar to the
host, and he said: “Are you from a dis-
tance? You seem like a Western man, but,”
and he directed his glance to the first
speaker, “your accent is decidedly Eastern.”
Laselle, for it was he, could no longer con-
ceal his identity, no matter what sort of re-
ception he might receive; he had come pur-
posely, though thinking after so many
years he might not be recognized. He re-
plied to Mr. Vose that he was from the
West, but formerly resided in Boston; that
in days gone by he had been "quite a reg-
ular visitor in this very house.”
	“And you come here now for shelter and
as a missionary preaching the word of the
Lord, after the deception [-]ou practiced, be-
traying the confidence of my sister,”—Be-
fore he could finish the sentence Dorothy


