[Vol15 | April 1928 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Article | Title: Dr. Emmeline B. Wells Memorial]

A most unique and truly significant occasion was the impressive ceremony of the unveiling of the statue of Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, which occurred Wednesday afternoon, February twenty-ninth, at the State Capitol, marking the one hundredth anniversary of the birth of Mrs. Wells. The statue was the gift to the state from the women of the state, in loving remembrance of Mrs. Wells's outstanding service to humanity, especially to women. "Aunt Em," as she was affectionately called, was one of the great women of the century, known far and near as the unfailing advocate and the undaunted champion of every movement calculated for the advancement of her sex and the betterment of the human race. She loved all things that were good—youth, intelligence, beauty, virtue, art and nature, and was herself the epitome of all the charm and virtues of womanhood. She gave of her unusual gifts freely and unselfishly to mankind, and the beautiful tribute now erected in her honor not only perpetuates in human memory the charms and attainments of a distinguished woman, but expresses for the thousands who contributed to it the affection and admiration felt for one who to them typifies their highest ideals.

The movement for the tribute started in November, 1927, when Dr. Jane W. Skolfield, a dear friend and admirer of Mrs. Wells, remembering that the one hundredth anniversary of her birth was close at hand, invited a number of friends to meet and consider how best to celebrate the occasion. There was a gratifying response to the invitation, and after many of those present expressed their love and appreciation for Aunt Em, many giving personal reminiscences of her helpfulness, it was decided that the day should be commemorated not only by a gathering of friends with fragrant memories, but also that it should in some appropriate way mark an epoch for women in the state. It was then and there decided to have a marble bust of Aunt Em executed by Cyrus E. Dallin, one of Utah's gifted sons, and to present it to the state as a gift from the women. At this meeting the Emmeline B. Wells Centennial Memorial Association was organized with Dr. Jane W. Skolfield as chairman; Mrs. F. S. Richards, first vice-chairman; Mrs. Sol Siegel, second vice-chairman; Mrs. E. O. Howard, third vice-chairman; Mrs. Richard R. Lyman, fourth vice-chairman; Mrs. Mary Kelly Pye, secretary; Mrs. Ernest Bamberger, treasurer; and Mrs. Alonzo B. Irvine, assistant treasurer; Mrs. Georgiana Marriott of Ogden, chairman of the advisory committee; and the names of many prominent women as patrons. Thus was the campaign launched, and under the able direction of the chairman, Dr. Skolfield, it was brought to a most delightful and satisfactory completion.

The plan was to reach all the women of the state regardless of position in life, religion or any other condition, and to give them all an opportunity to become identified with the project. To this end chairmen were appointed in all the counties of the state, and these chairmen reached the women through their various clubs and organizations. Weekly meetings were held by the central committee to hear reports and attend to the many details that claimed attention from time to time. The committee had the hearty assistance of the state officials, notably the Board of Examiners, consisting of Governor George H. Dern, Secretary of State H. E. Crockett, and Attorney General Harvey H. Cluff, with whose permission and under whose direction the proposed statue was to be given a place in the State Capitol. As finally located, the bust of Mrs. Wells occupies the northwest niche in the rotunda; the first statue to be placed in Utah's hall of fame.

On the occasion of the unveiling, an assemblage of several hundred people, including many in high positions in Church and state, filled the rotunda, the stairs, and galleries. The exercises were presided over by Mrs. C. E. Maw, president of the state federation of women's clubs, who in a brief address extolled the work and life of Mrs. Wells. The Ogden chorus of the Daughters of Utah Pioneers in pioneer costume sang "Our Utah Pioneers," after which President Heber J. Grant gave the invocation. "Our Mountain Home So Dear" was then sung by a quartet under the direction of Mrs. Emma Ramsey Morris. The words of this lovely little hymn were by Mrs. Wells, while the music was composed by Professor Evan Stephens, who was present and played the accompaniment. Following a beautiful selection by a string orchestra under the direction of Mrs. Margaret Lyman Schreiner, Dr. Jane W. Skolfield, in a tender and touching manner, presented the statue to the state. Addressing the Governor, she told of the fine service of Mrs. Wells through the long years, her culture, her motherhood, her literary attainments, mentioning that she was the first person in the state to receive an honorary collegiate degree from a local educational institution when at the advanced age of eighty-four she was thus honored by the Brigham Young University—with the degree of doctor of literature. Dr. Skolfield spoke of Aunt Em's remarkable personality, drawing a picture of her as thousands present might remember—her frail, slight, almost ethereal figure in soft silks and pastel shades, threading her way among friends with all the grace and dignity of a queen.

Mrs. Emmeline C. Martineau, a granddaughter and namesake of Mrs. Wells, then unveiled the statue by drawing aside the gorgeous silk curtains which had concealed it, and there was an intense and breathless moment preceding the Governor's response, as all gazed on the beautiful likeness in its classic, marble setting.

Governor Dern, in accepting the gift for the state, said that he saw in these ceremonies an example of how the people still loved to honor a life and character so endowed and so well employed as Mrs. Wells had been; for she measured up well to the standards of greatness to which the people all yield their homage. It is significant, he remarked, that the first statue to be placed in Utah's pantheon should be that of a woman—this bespeaks the high estate which woman holds in this commonwealth and is notice to the world that nowhere is a good woman held in loftier esteem than here. The speaker declared that Mrs. Wells deserves the unique distinction accorded her; for she typifies the pioneer woman whose character always excites unstinted admiration, enduring hardships in transforming the wilderness from the rude state to a civilized community of homes; that she was a pioneer woman of the intellectual type also. Her interest extended beyond the state, and national leaders acknowledged the value of her help in forward looking movements for the welfare of womankind. Governor Dern then accepted the gift in behalf of the state and gave assurance that it would always have a place of honor in the Capitol, where it will serve as an inspiration to future generations. In conclusion he expressed gratitude to the committee and others who had aided in perpetuating the memory of so distinguished and lovable a woman.

After the reading of some of Mrs. Wells' verses by Mrs. Don C. Coray, and an expression of gratitude from the family, by Mr. Junius F. Wells, the exercises concluded with the singing of "America."

The rotunda of the Capitol was made attractive with potted palms and plants. A beautiful silk national flag was near the statue, while the state flag hung back of the speakers. Red and white roses in an antique vase were on the piano, over which was draped "Aunt Em's" familiar Paisley shawl. The curtains used in the unveiling were the portieres made for the woman's building at the World's Fair in Chicago in 1893. They are of Utah silk embroidered in sego lilies, and are now one of the rare historic possessions of the state.

It is gratifying to contemplate and to commend the vision and devotion of the women who have made this memorial a glorious fact. Not only have they honored the memory of a great woman; they have in this act honored all women. They have enriched their own state with a beautiful work of art by a master hand; and they have marked out a luminous path that other states may well follow in perpetuating in pure, imperishable stone, the loftiest, holiest ideals of womanhood.
