DECEMBER By Della Adams Leitner The transient year is ending, joy and grief Tied in the sheaf which time has bound secure. All that it gave of value shall endure, Love, hope, incentive, effort and belief. Beneath its snowy mantle lies concealed Abundant life quiescent. Who can know The alchemy transpiring there below The crust that covers meadow, hill and field? December, you are kind; your bleak, chill days Are but a mask to hide your glowing heart. You bring to us that season set apart For self-forgetting, as the Christ we praise Through loving gifts and deeds and so fulfill The angels song of "Peace on earth, good will." Christmas Is For Happiness By Bernice Fagg Pond bustle of the Christmas season is upon us. If we haven't yet a collection of knobby, tissue-wrapped packages hidden under unmentionables in the chiffonier drawer, we at least have a mental picture of the contentsto-be of the packages, and are doing the planning and budget manipulating necessary to make the dream picture a reality. Our planning, of course, goes beyond a few tinsel-tied bundles in a drawer, to include all the -festive things that bring the holiday spirit into our homes. No stage director has a more delightful job than have homemakers during this season, for just how much -of the real spirit of Christmas the family is going to get out of the celebration depends largely upon how the stage is set. Just as soon as possible, choose the stage for your Christmas drama. Should you have a large house, make one room the Christmas room for a few weeks. It is gay to remove from your Christmas room everything that possibly can be moved which is associated with the regular routine of your lives. Let the children help you move things, as well as select a tree that is right for the space available. SHOULD the youngsters think they are tired of the green tree and vari-colored decorations and lights, let them experiment a little this year. The silver tree that is decorated with bright blue baubles and blue lights has been in favor for several years. A golden tree decorated with green lights and green baubles is lovely, and is that "something different" for which you may be looking. The green tree with lightly frosted branches gives a pleasing effect. And, silvering, gilding, and frosting are very easily done at home. For the gilding, or silvering, you will need the regular radiator paint, in gold or silver, and a good spray gun. Do a little experimental spraying until you get the knack of it. Then be sure to start spraying the trunk of the tree and inside branches first, if you want a complete job. The white frosting for the Christmas tree is made with white hot water kalsomine mixed according to directions on the package, and applied by slapping lightly onto the branches with a brush. As you realize, a drying period is necessary for any one of these processes, so it is well to get your materials together early. But, lovely as these gilded trees are, we must remember that a gilded tree ordinarily does not hold up as well as an ungilded one. If you do the work too long ahead, you may be dismayed by falling needles. The tree, glittering with baubles, shining with tinsel, bound with silver icicles, will have the center of the stage in your Christmas room, but you will want holly garlands, and mistletoe, and fat red candles there, also. These are symbols of Christmas, and add to the spirit of celebration. The star, the sheep and shepherds, the wise men and their camels, the stable with the cradleinanger, and a picture of our Savior, should have important places in our Christmas room, because they lead our thoughts to the real meaning of Christmas.