WHO SEEKS THE KING By La Rene King Bleecker No darkness fell in all the world that night; The soft light shown as though it were mid-day, When angels ushered in the Prince of Light, While shepherds heard the chimes of heaven play. The Star with steadfast light held deep amaze, And mystic wise men rode with steadfast gaze. Lo, all the wistful air and earth and sky Held pause to hear a baby's destined cry. Not they alone, but all have seen the Star Wherever weary ones of earth have trod, Wherever souls are groping from afar; Whenever heavenly longing cries to God His love illumines life and death's abyss; Who seeks the King shall need no light but this! Dear to the Heart of the Shepherd By Dorothy Clapp Robinson CHAPTER NINE I looked down into the eager faces that waited breathlessly. What fun it was to do something for mother. "Can you really?" "Oh, yes, really, Mother." "Oh, yes, weally, Muvver." Little Tim echoed his sister's confidence. Why not? Timothy had gone out of town and now was as good a time as any to let them try their little wings. "Very well, then. I shall lie here with Robbie and rest. When you are ready call us." "Don't peek, will you?" "I promise you I will not." With shouts of glee the two little youngsters ran excitedly toward the kitchen. To keep my thoughts from what the children might be doing to my clean kitchen I went over some problems that had recently risen in Relief Society. The mercury in the penny thermometer had risen to a satisfying degree but now the ones who usually subscribed had almost filled their envelopes and those who were left could not be depended upon. But we would achieve our goal some way. If one method did not work there were always others. Visiting teaching was gradually being worked to a solution, but our percent of attendance was falling a little. "It always drops in the spring," Irene had told me, "and this drop isn't anything. Last year at our final meeting there were only nine present." L" us get dinner, Mother." "There must be forty-nine this year," I determined. "It's ready, Mother." "It's weady,' Muvver." I sat up with a start. Had I fallen asleep? The children, with little Rob, were standing beside me, their hands and faces suspiciously clean. "I shall get up immediately. Um-m-m. Am I hungry." Denise's enthusiasm took a sudden drop. "You see, Mother," she began hesitantly, "You may not like our dinner so well. We could not find anything to begin on." There was an overflowing dish of their favorite jam. Fruit juices from the ice-box had been mixed to make punch. Hopeless stains of it stared accusingly from the linen. But the piece de resistance was an incredibly elaborate cake. Denise caught my glance. "It is the one you made for Daddy, Mama. We just put more frosting on it." "I scwaped the dish," Tim announced and little Rob made definite remarks about it in his own language. "Do you like it?" "Very much. It is marvelous. But as you say there isn't much to begin on. You and I might get by nicely on dessert, but babies like Robbie must have their milk and vegetables. Suppose I fix some for you." She sighed with relief. "It is so nice to have you to depend on, Mother."