Happenings By Annie W ells Cannon DECEMBER?With Christmas near, an infinitude of tendernes hovers over the world. AN Allegory: Once there was a man of power and honor who directed the distribution of great wealth. This he did wisely and well and received much praise. For praise he cared not. He said the Savior's way is best, "Let not thy left hand know what thy right hand doeth." From his own means he gave to the poor in spirit, the afflicted, the sick at heart, and such as these. Happy in giving happiness! Not in large figures are these things recorded; but in the golden book of memory from the hearts of grateful men and women is written, "God bless Heber J. Grant." ALMA GLUCK, famous Metropolitan opera singer of yesteryear, died last month. Fortunately her incomparable voice is preserved to posterity on phonographic records. PRINCESS FREDERICA of Greece in October gave birth to a daughter. The advent of the young princess was an occasion of rejoicing and brought the release of all prisoners of minor offenses and the return home of 400 deported persons. FARIDA, 17 year-old Queen of Egypt, has her baby princess, for whom a $15,000 layette was prepared. In celebration of the event thousands of poor were given new clothes and free meals and 20,000 school children suits and dresses. MADAM SUN YAT-SEN still pleads for no surrender to the Japanese forces. She is a magnificent leader and inspires resistance. VIRGINIA LLOYD-SMITH, accompanied her father, of the American Museum of Natural History, on his last hunting trip to Alaska. Virginia is 13 years old and on this trip killed three caribou and a bear. CATHERINE D. BLAKE, 80, now lecturing in the United States, recently returned from Europe where she attended, as delegate, the Women's International League for Peace and Freedom. ELZABETH SIEFERT, of Missouri, won the $10,000 prize from Dodd, Mead and Company for the best novel of 1938. The book is titled "Young Doctor Galahad." FRANCES WINWAR'S new book "Farewell The Banner," the story of Coleridge, the Wordsworths?William and Dorothy? is as interesting as her story of the Rosettis, "Poor Splendid Wings." MARGUERITE CAMERON has written a juvenile book "This Is The Place," a story of early Utah. BLANCHE K. McKEY, of Ogden, has had a poem accepted by the National Magazine of Poetry?'Pioneer Graveyard." BDH WHARTON'S | novel "The Buccaneers," published after her death, is described by the critics as all-absorbing and a fine addition to American literature.