ONEIDA STAKE.

	FIRST quarterly Conference of the
Oneida Stake Relief Society was held at
Weston Dec. 4th 1892.
	Present of Relief Society Stake Presidency
was President Elizabeth Fox and Counselor
Mary Hawks. President Fox presiding.
Singing “How pleased and blessed was I.”
Prayer by Bishop Lewis of Oxford. Sing-
ing, “Afflicted Saints.”
	Prest. E. Fox made a few opening re-
marks and minutes of the Weston Relief
Society meeting of Dec. 1st were read and
accepted; reports were then given by the
following Presidents, Elizabeth Clark of
Weston, Sister Louis of Oxford, Louisa
Benson of Whitney, Sister Bingham of
Clifton, all gave very favorable and en-
couraging reports.
	Sister Hawks spoke of training the young
and of mothers being qualified to teach,
govern and control their children. That
our homes should be ruled by love, and
gave many other good instructions.
	Bro. L. Hawks, a missionary just returned
from New Zealand, spoke of the blessings
we enjoyed here in our mountain home com-
pared with other nations; said the Elders
were doing a good work among the natives;
related some of his experiences, and testified
to the truth of this work. Sang a verse in
the Maori language.
	Bishop Lewis, was well pleased with the
reports and instructions given. Spoke of
the benefits of the Relief Society. Con-
ference adjourned until 2 p. m. singing “In
the work of the Lord,” Benediction by
Bishop John H. Clark.
	At 2 p. m. Conference continued singing,
“Awake Saints of God Awake’ Prayer
by Brother Benson, of Whitney, singing
“Hail to the Brightness.”  Sacrament was
then administered, singing, “How great the
Wisdom.” 
	The Prest. of the Fairview R. S. then
gave a report of their work which was en-
couraging. Prest. E. Fox then addressed
the congregation, gave many good instruct-
ions, spoke of the benefits and necessities
of attending the meetings. Said that we
should cultivate the spirit of God. Teach
the principles of the Gospel to our children
that we should help and assist in building
up the kingdom of God, also spoke of cloth-
ing the dead properly.
	The officers of the R. S. of Oneida Stake
were presented and unanimously sustained.
	Sister Hawks made very encouraging re-
marks also Bishop Clark of Weston.
	Brother M. F. Cowley exhorted the Saints
to forsake all evil, that love and the Spirit
of the Lord should unite us together, and
prepare us to receive the blessings of God,
that mothers should control their children
by that Spirit. Spoke of our pre-existence,
and of the many duties devolving upon us.
Said that Prest. Woodruff had said, that if
it took a month, all who were worthy should


have the privilege of going to the dedication
of the Salt Lake Temple, invoked the bles-
sings of God upon all.
	Prest. Elizabeth Fox reminded the sis-
ters of the necessity of storing up grain.
	Singing "Jerusalem my Glorious Home."
Conference adjourned for three months.
Benediction by Peter Mickelsen.
