ANNOUNCEMENT.
[The Twenty-fifth Annual Convention of the 
	National American Woman Suffrage 
	Association.]
	To arouse that divine discontent which
shall make women ashamed to remain long-
er in the attitude of wards in their own
country; to stir the dormant sense of justice 
which shall make men unwilling to monopo-
lize all power, as if women were not to be
trusted—such is the task of the coming 
Twenty-fifth Annual Convention of the 
National American Woman Suffrage As-
sociation. This Convention will be held in
Metzerott’s Music Hall, corner F and 12th
Streets, N. W., Washington, D. C., January 
14 to 19, 1893.
	Until women are enfranchised, they can-
not be considered free moral agents. Their
influence over their children is hampered,
their attempts at work of philanthropy en-
feebled, their position in the industrial
world endangered, so long as they remain
political minors, constrained to obey laws
which they have no voice in making. 
	The mission of the National American
Woman Suffrage Association is to awaken 
public opinion to the necessity of bringing 
the practice of the United States Govern- 
ment into harmony with its professed prin-
ciples. Professing itself a government of the
people, it is actually an oligarchy of men.
Professing that the “citizens of each State
shall be entitled to all privileges and im-
munities in the several States,” this United 
States Government permits the States de-
liberately to deprive one-half its people— 
its women—of the only legitimate means of
taking part in the government—the use of
the ballot.
	Such glaring inconsistency between pro-
fession and practice is to be condemned in 
the interest of public morality.
	In laboring to obtain their enfranchise-
ment, women work, therefore, not only for
themselves but for the establishments of
national honor and the elevation of the
whole human race.
SUSAN B. ANTHONY, President.
REV. ANNA H. SHAW, Vice-Pres.-at-large.
RACHEL FOSTER AVERY, Cor. Secretary.
ALICE STONE BLACKWELL, Rec. Secretary.
HARRIET TAYLOR UPTON, Treasurer.
WM. DUDLEY FOULKE, Auditor.


