INTERESTING NEWS FROM
CANADA.
Dear Editor:—
	WITH the dawning of the new year came 
the thought that you had not heard from
this part of the world for some time. Our
community as a whole are in excellent
health, prosperous and industrious. The
winter has been some what unusual, as the
snow that as a rule, came about the last of
December, came in November, and has just
disappeared under the cheering influences
of a glorious Chinook, bare hills, plenty of
grass, and happy stock, are the gratifying
results, without question this is the stock
country, of the North American Continent.
 	A comfortable new meeting house adorns
the hill, its dimensions, 26x40 and built
from .lumber made at the Cardston Lumber,
mills. The grist mill is running now, and 
turns out good flour, cheese from our factory
has sold rapidly, being used exclusively in
the local market, and pronounced by all a
first class article, the store does a booming
business, and pays its stock holders good 
living dividends.
	We have an excellent Church School,
with an attendance of sixty-five or seventy
scholars. Elder Sterling Williams, a graduate
from S. L. L. D. S. College being the teacher.
	The Relief Society having no outside
branches have made their annual meeting
the occasion of general reports and an as-
sembling of outside ranching members.
 	The last held, Dec. second, was most
gratifying in all respects, it came on fast-

[Column 2]
day and in the afternoon reports, speeches
from Pres. Card and other leading brethren
with appropriate exercises by the sisters was
followed by a general participation of old
and young in the novel and amusing draw-
ing of prizes from a “lucky bag” and “fish,
pond,” the presents being donated by the
members of the Society; in connection with
this a lunch stand dispensed the good
things of life to the hungry throng, and all
felt they had the worth of their money and
a neat sum of cash was handed over to the
"new meeting house" fund as the result.
In the evening an excellent programme
was rendered. Music by the brass band,
solo’s on the violin and organ, recitations,
songs and speeches with some fine step
dancing,made up an evening’s entertainment 
not soon to be forgotten. As there are no
poor here who depend on the society, the
means gathered is spent in doing for the
occasional needs of sickness or accident, and
public enterprises.
	The young peoples’ associations are alive
and doing. A Fair in the fall, an Annual
meeting in Dec. with lunch stand, to raise
funds for the Temple and a Leap Year 
ball, the proceeds going 10 the meeting
house, has prevented any sluggishness on the
part of members, and those who are doing 
their duty are happy and content with their
lot, of course we have our grumblers and
rowdy element, as “The gospel net’’ has
some of all kinds no matter where the saints 
dwell.
	The Literary and Dramatic Association 
gave a fine entertainment New Year’s Eve;
the talent here is certainly excellent, all it
wants is to be developed. As the new 
meeting house joins the old one—being raised
some two feet higher, it answers for a stage,
the old part seats about one hundred and
fifty it makes a fine auditorium.
	Last summer so many dear friends were
expected, and I am sure they all felt well
paid for their trip, but like the seasons, they
will surely come, whether we expect them
or not. With the “Compliments of the
season” to all dear friends and a prayer for
“Zion’s cause” I am ever yours,
ALBERTA.
CARDSTON, Jan. 2nd, 1893.


