master, free for the night, he pays for his
seat in the car and why should he not retain
it. Of course there are exceptions. The
young should always, unless ill, give their
places to the aged, but we should not hesi-
tate on account of sex. I should certainly
feel to yield my seat to an aged man as soon
as an aged woman. It is not a question of
manners, but of unselfishness. For a young
healthy girl to allow a tired man to give up
his seat to her is purely selfish and she ought
not to expect it nor allow it for a moment.
One can readily see, when a women is tired
or ill and then of course a seat ought to be
provided for her even at the inconvenience
of another passenger. Another one always
imposed upon in the street car is the little
child who is just old enough to pay fare,
why should we expect the little girls or
boys simply because they are children to
give up their seats. I sat by a little girl not
long since who looked so tired, she was not
well dressed and had a few parcels. Then
some few ladies entered the car a kindly
woman near me said, “come here little girl
and sit on my lap.” I immediately said,

[column 2]
“don’t you move you paid for your seat and
possibly some one will get off before long
and the ladies can then get a seat.” She
looked at me so astonished but she sat still,
now the kind woman who offered to hold
the little girl was very stout, and I have no
doubt would have found holding the
child very uncomfortable, and why
should she burden herself. I always intend
to yield my seat to aged men and women,
the maimed and sick, and the weary work-
ers and mothers with babies and from them
I do not intend to take a place. Sometimes
we expect too much deference from men
and children and if we do not receive it,
call it impoliteness. Is it not more selfishness
on our part, than ill breeding on theirs.
	Now that women engage in all kinds of
business, and every branch of industry is
open to them the good domestic servant is
very rare. Girls have felt themselves to be
so looked down upon and ill-treated that
they much prefer employment in a factory,
a store, or office work, and yet how much
more of a servant one is in any of these
positions. The hours are always very long
and the girl is seldom allowed to sit down
and is reproved if not “docked” for the
slightest tardiness, while living with a
family, a girl not only has a home, with
plenty of good food but her duties are so
varied that she has the advantage of chang-
ing the position of the body thereby re-
ceiving rest and also physical culture.
There is no better exercise for the lungs
than a little washing. No finer way to
develop the muscles of the arm the nimble-
ness of the hand and expansion of the
chest than by kneading bread. The occu-
pations of a domestic are healthful and
might be enjoyable, if only the mistress
and maid would each endeavor to do her
duty. The former should be firm, but not
overbearing the latter willing to be taught.
There are no rules by which every house
can be governed. Circumstances are so
different and people are so different. But
where a lady tries to teach a girl her ways
pleasantly, and a girl tries to improve and
give satisfaction, no better employment can
be given. House work is not, when prop-
erly managed drudgery, in fact it is an art.
There are many unpleasant things connected
with it, still there are more that are pleasur-
able. The arrangement of a room, the set-
ting of a table, the “doing up” of a piece
of linen, the arranging of the china closet
all afford ample scope for the display of taste
and talent both in color and design. There
is no occupation that cannot be improved
by a little thought and study. As the do-
mestic can study to make her work lighter
and more pleasant, so can the shop-girl im-
prove her position. If she is in a dry goods
store why not take especial interest in color
effects and contrasts, she will soon become
invaluable to her employer, for customers
will seek her ideas, as well as her service
and in the arrangement of show cases and
windows she might become a most perfect
artist. To a very great extent the merchant
depends on his window display for his
custom, and where he finds his clerk apt in
novel arrangement and tasteful in decor-


ation, he is very likely to appreciate her 
talent and advance her position as well as
her salary, I knew of a very lovely and
wealthy woman once, whose husband's
financial ventures brought them to ruin
and she was forced to seek a situation.
She obtained one finally in a large furnish-
ing house in New York, and so exquisite
was her taste in the arranging of the tapes-
tries and laces for the windows and show
rooms, that before long her employer sent
her abroad to the factories of Europe, to select
his rarest goods; a position commanding the
utmost confidence in every respect.
	Do you ever look into your own soul and
find how full of faults you are? One becomes
so used to looking at other people and
"picking them to pieces" that he often for-
gets he may have as many or more faults
himself. How we grumble and complain
to those we love the most, while others for
whom we have not even affection we treat
with perfect politeness and deference!
	Sometimes I fear we must construe the
sacred phrase "those whom the Lord loveth,
He chasteneth," or at any rate we excuse
our own crossness by thinking it is for a
good cause. A little school girl, who had
been complained about and scolded and
punished almost beyond endurance by her 
teacher astonished the school one day by
breaking out with accusations against the
teacher saying "I try so hard and you 
treat me worse than any girl in school,"
imagine the surprise of the child as well as
the other scholars when the teacher calmly
replied "that is because I love you the most
and am more desirous for your advancement."
They understood each other at last and the
explanations of that day formed a friend-
ship between the two which lasted through
life. But what a queer way to display
one's love, it certainly needs an explanation,
after all would'nt kind words even in re-
proof be far better. Many times the hasty
words brings a sad regret that never can be
forgotten, and we injure ourselves more
than we help others by encouraging the
complaining, fault finding habit.
