the holder during her stay, it can be made
over to another, who can use the balance.
After the ten dollars has been used, the
share still stands on the books, credited to
the holder, and she will be entitled to her
pro rata share of the profits, if a surplus
remains after the enterprise is closed. The
rate per day will not exceed forty cents to
stockholders. Each person must engage
her room at least one month before coming,
in order to be sure of accommodation at
that time, and in making application for
stock must state what month and what part
of that month she desires to make use of it.
	The New York State board of women
managers have arranged for an exhibit of
the kitchen garden system at the World’s
Fair. This system was founded by Miss
Emily Huntington at the Wilson Industrial
School, 125, St. Mark’s Place, New York
City, a few years ago, and is in operation
at the present time all over this country.
By its means little children are taught how
to do all kinds of housework, from washing
dishes to dusting a room and making beds,
and this teaching goes on to the accompani-
ment of appropriate songs, so that it is like
play.
	The exhibit will be made in the Children’s
Building, where not only all the furnishings
and paraphernalia of a kitchen garden will
be shown, but where at stated hours the
children themselves will go through the ex-
ercises and thus make a practical exhibit.
It is probable that about once a week there
will be an exhibition of two hundred child-
ren on the floor at one time.


Miss Emily Huntington has consented
to superintend the work herself, and it is
believed that this will be one of the most in-
teresting exhibits organized by women.
	The model kitchen and cooking-school
exhibit, which is also to be carried on un-
der the auspices of the New York State
board of women managers, will prove very
attractive. Cooking is looked upon now
almost as a fine art, and the cooking-school
has become one of the recognized branches
in educational institutions. Miss Juliet
Corson, the originator of the cooking-school,
has tendered her services to the board of wo-
men managers free of charge, and once or
twice a day will give a lecture with practi-
cal demonstrations. This exhibit will be
made in the Woman’s Building.
	These are the two exhibits to which the
women managers of New York have given
their greatest energy up to the present time,
but they are organizing several loan exhibits
which will not only be of great intrinsic
value, but will form a means of education
to workers in the different branches of art
which they represent.
	While there is no definite scheme for a
philanthropic exhibit as yet, it is believed
that a few of the most prominent organiz-
ations will be memorialized in a way to in-
terest sight-seers and do credit to the founders
of the institutions.
	The reports from the various judicial dis-
tricts throughout the State are most en-
couraging. The women managers have
organized sub-committees in nearly all the
counties, and while there are not always
tangible results in the shape of applications
for women’s exhibits, interest is awakened
and there is a local pride shown to bring out
everything that women have done worthy
of being recorded.
	The members of the sub-committee en-
deavor first to obtain the co-operation of the
editors of local papers, for through them
knowledge of the workings of the commit-
tees and of the share women are to have in
the Exposition is best disseminated.—The
New Cycle.


[Column 1]
THE REFORMATION
	Taken within its narrowest limits the
period occupied by the great movement
known as the Protestant Reformation may
be looked upon as commencing with the
year 1517—and drawing to a close in 1545.
It marks the transitional state from long
established Catholicism to a recognized and
growing Protestantism—it commenced with
the teachings of Luther, wherein he re-
nounced much of the Catholic doctrine —and
later the assembling of the Councils of Trent
raised an insuperable barrier between the 
communion of Rome and the Churches of
Protestantism. From that time each com-
munion possessed its distinctive organization
and formulary of faith, and the struggles
which subsequently took place between
Romanism and Protestantism represent
not so much endeavors to bring about, or
resist reform—but endeavors on the part of
each communion to bring about the de-
struction of the other, and the contest which
Luther initiated resulted in complete and
irreparable rupture between the contending
parties.
	The world was tottering on its old foun-
dations when Christianity appeared, the re-
ligion which had sufficed for an earlier time,
no longer satisfied the nations, the mind of
the existing generation could no longer
tabernacle in the convenient forms; the gods

[Column 2]
of the nations had lost their oracles as the
nations had lost their liberty in Rome.
Brought face to face in the Capital they had
mutually destroyed the illusion of their
divinity, a vast void had ensued in the re-
ligious opinion sof mankind—a much simi-
lar condition existed at the birth-time of
Luther and marked the transition from the
mediaeval for the modern era in European
history.
	The corruptions and profligacy of the 
Roman Catholic Church was at its height.
The celebrated and scandalous tax of in-
dulgences are extant, were in full operation, a
mind of the least delicacy would be shocked
at the repetition of the horrors therein con-
tained. Incest was to cost if not detected
five groschen, if known or flagrant, six.
A certain price was affixed to murder,
another to infanticide, adultery, perjury,
burglary &c. "Oh! Shame to Rome," ex-
claims Clauthius of Espera-and we may
add "Oh! shame to human nature," for no
reproach can attach to Rome, which does
not recoil with equal force, on mankind in
general. Boniface VIII. the boldest and
most ambitious of the Popes after Gregory
VII. effected still more than his predecess-
ors had done. He published a call by which
he declared to the Church, that all who
should at that time make the pilgrimage to
Rome, which should take place every hun-
dred years, should there receive plen-
ary indulgence. Upon this, multitudes
flocked from Italy, Sicily, Sardinia, Corsica,
France, Spain, Germany, Hungary, and
other quarters. Old men of sixty and
seventy set out on the pilgrimage and it
was computed 200,000 visited Rome in one
month. All these foreigners, brought with
them rich offerings, and the Pope and the
Romans saw their coffers replenished; the
avarice of the Pontiffs soon fixed the jubi-
lee at intervals of fifty years. Afterward
at thirty three years, and at last at twenty-
five. Then for the greater convenience of the
purchasers and to increase the profits of the
venders, they transferred both the jubilee
and its indulgences, from Rome to all the
market places of Christendom; what others
had been obliged to seek beyond the Alps
each might obtain at his own door.
	The evil was at its height, and then the Re-
former arose. The principle which was de-
signed to govern Christianity had been lost.
	To set up a single caste as mediators
between God and man, and to barter in
exchange for works and penances, and gold,
the salvation freely given by God, such was
Popery.
	To open wide to all, through
Jesus Christ and without any earthly
mediators, and without that power that
called itself the Church, free access to the
gift of God, Eternal Life. Such was
Christianity, and such was the Reformation.
	Popery interposes the Church between
God and man.
	Christianity and the Reformation brings
God and man face to face.
	Popery separates man from God, the Gos-
pel reunited them, such were some of the
teachings of Luther.
	Luther was born on the tenth day of 
November 1433, on St. Martin's Eve, at
Eisleben, Germany. The next day the father
with joy and gratitude carried his son to
St. Peter's Church, they named him Martin
in memory of the day.
	All things were ready, God who prepares
his work for ages accomplishes it when the 
time is come, by the feeblest instruments.


