IN MEMORIAM.

	WE are calledto mourn the death of our belov
ed Sister Isabella Hood Hill Hamilton, who died
of dropsy and heart disease Dec. 2nd 1892. She
was born on the 18th day of Aug. 1849, at Scotts
Bluffs, now State of Wyoming. Daughter of
Patriarch Alexander and Agnes Hood Hill. Mar-
ried Nov. 28th 1870, to Bishop James C. Hamilton.
Sister Hamilton was the mother of fourteen chil-
dren, eight sons and six daughters ten of whom
are living, who with their surviving parent feel
their loss very severely.
	Sister Isabella was a member of the Relief
Society and for many years held the office of
teacher, she was faithful in the performance of her
duties working for the benefit of the Society in
visiting the poor, and comforting those in trouble.
	She was quiet and unassuming in her disposition
but firm in the principles of her religion, in the
persecutions that the Saints have had to endure,
she passed through many trying times when her
husband suffered imprisonment for his religious
belief, she bore up with fortitude and patience,
and many testimonies she bore to the truth of the
Gospel of Jesus Christ.
	She was a loving wife and mother one of those
precious ones whom to know, is to love her kin-
dred ties are numerous there being a large family
of brothers and sisters relatives and friends, to
mourn her loss. Our heart-felt sympathy is ex-
tended to the bereaved family.
	Dear Sister we feel that your home mission has
been filled, the Spirit has been released from its
earthly Tabernacle to perform a work beyond the
veil. Your memory will ever be enshrined in the
hearts of your co-laborers of the Relief Society.
	The funeral services were held in the Mill Creek
Ward House Dec. 5th 1892 notwithstanding it
being a very stormy day, the house was packed
to its utmost.
	Services were conducted by Counselor James


Hanson: appropriate remarks were made by
President Joseph E. Taylor, Bishop D. B. Brin-
ton. Bishop John Neff, C. Jance Hanson, and
several of the brethren.
	The remains were followed to the Salt Lake
cemetery, by a concourse of relatives and friends
to pay their last respects to the dear departed one.
The grave was dedicated by James T. Walters.
	ELIZABETH HILL, Pres.
