WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


It is the method of God’s providence, to ef-
fect great results by inconsiderable means.
This law which pervades the kingdom of
nature, is discerned also in the history of
mankind. God chose the reformers of the
Church from the same conditions and world-
ly circumstances, from whence he had be-
fore taken the Apostles. The father of
Luther gradually made his way and estab-
lished at Mansfield two small furnaces for
iron. By the side of these furnaces, little
Martin grew up and it was with the earn-
ings of this industry, that his father was
afterwards able to place him at school. It
was from a Miner’s fireside, that one who
was to recast vital Christianity was to go
forth.
	John Martin in conformity with his pre-
dilections resolved to make his son a scholar.
That new world of light and science which
was everywhere producing vague excite-
ment, reached even to the cottage of the
Miller. The remarkable character and per-
severing application of his son, made John
conceive the highest hopes of his success.
At the age of fourteen Martin with a com
panion, the son of a respectable burgher,
set out for Madgeburg the school of the
Franciscans, Madgeburg was like a new
world to joyous Martin. In the midst of nu-
merous privations, he observed and listened.
A provincial of the Augustine order, was
then preaching with great zeal, the necessity
of reforming religion and the Church.
Perhaps these discourses deposited in the
soul of the youth—the earliest germ of the
thought which a later period unfolded.
	This was a severe apprenticeship for
Luther cast upon the world at fourteen
without friends or protectors. He trembled
in the presence of his masters, and in his
play hours, he and some children as poor
as himself, with difficulty begged his bread.
At Christmas time he remarked, “we would
all go together through the neighboring
villages from house to house, singing, in
concert the usual carols, on the infant
Jesus born at Bethlem,” more than once
over-whelmed with sorrow, he shed many
tears in secret. He could not look to the
future without trembling. One day in
particular, after having been repulsed, from
three houses he was about to return fasting,
to his lodging, when having reached the
place, St. George, he stood before the house
of an honest burgher—motherless and lost
in painful reflections, must he for want of
bread give up his studies and go and work
with his father in the Mines of Mansfield,
suddenly the door opens—a woman appears
on-the threshold, her name was Ursula—
the chronicles of the place call her the Pious,
Shunamite, in remembrance of her who
so earnestly entreated the Prophet Elijah to
eat bread with her. She had more than once
remarked young Martin in the assemblies
of the faithful, she had been affected by the
sweetness of his voice and his apparent
devotion. She now came to his assistance,
bade him enter her dwelling and supplied
his urgent wants.
	Conrad the husband of the good woman
approved his wife’s benevolence, and him-
self found so much pleasure in the society
of young Luther, that in a few days later
he took him to live in his house. From
that moment he no longer feared to be
obliged to relinquish his studies, later on
we find him at a higher institution, of learn-
ing where he most brilliantly distinguished
himself, “the whole University’’ says
Melancthon “admired his genius.”
	[To be Continued.]


[Column One]
	FOREIGN LETTER. 
	[TO MRS. MARY W. MUSSER.] 
	November 7th, 1892.
My Dearest Mother:—
	If my memory serves me well it was just
forty six years ago to day since the world
was made better by the birth of a baby girl,
whose parents, on account of her extreme
loveliness, named her after the queen of
heaven, Mary. Since then this little girl
has grown to womanhood and has proven
beyond a doubt, especially to her large
family of children, of whom I boast being
one that she is the loveliest and best moth-
er in the whole world. Born as our
Savior, though not in a manger, in a place
nearly as humble, a lumber wagon, she
traveled on through her rather humble path-
way until now, forty six years later, she
is, in my estimation, queen Mary II. or
Mary queen of earth with the brightest
kind of prospects of being queen Mary,
with the chosen in eternity. Heaven
bless you dearest mother, and grant that
this birthday is just the noon of your im-
mortal, probation, and that the afternoon
will so out shine the forenoon that the lat-
ter will be lost in darkness. That your
every hour, as the sun grows warmer and
nears the horizon, will be happier and fuller
of real bliss than its precedent. That when
