IN RURAL ENGLAND. XXVII.

	AFTER the wedding of the young heir of
Walton Hall with Lady Anna Hilliard, and
the gossip that naturally follows in a coun-
try district, the next event of importance
was the departure of the heir apparent to
the estate and castle of the old Baron, who
had lived so many years separated from his
kith and kin and without any social re-
lation whatever. Now there was some-
thing to make a stir, when it was known
that Clair the young favorite was about to
travel, and with Lady Hilliard’s old lover
and cousin, “it bodes no good’’ was the
general remark, one old tenant who had
lived upon the Baron’s estate ever since he
was a boy, whispered it about that “she
allers knew that he had too much of the
gipsy blood in his veins to settle down and
be a gentleman,’’ and with her fortune-tell-
ing proclivities predicted desolation and
ruin under such an ill-born master. Joe
Berry the grandson of the ill-omened
gossip, who had been a sort of follower and
admirer of Clair Hilliard, quarreled with his
grandma over her evil predictions, and de-
clared he would follow the young master at
any risk; and against the wishes of all the
old retainers on the place, he begged the
privilege of going with Clair to foreign

[column 2]
parts; finding him so anxious, he called up-
on the old grandmother to gain her consent,
and with his winning way completely capti-
vated her and thus changed the whole tenor
of the gossips of the neighborhood, and
turned the tables in favor of the son of
“the gipsy,” as she invariably dubbed this
foreign woman, whose identity had never
been known about the place, and the tenants
and servants consequently looked upon the
whole affair with distrust and a sort of
resentment.
	Rob Harrison waited in London for his
traveling companion, he did not care to
grow familiar with the place that brought
back so many bitter recollections, nor to be
in the company of Mrs. Bland tho’ he had
no suspicion of the state of her feelings.
He imagined travel the best antidote for
melancholy, and would also furnish the
material for literary work. He was tired of
London its fo[-]s and its bustle and with a
companion of such versatile accomplish-
ments as Clair, and constant change of
scenes and scenery he would be able to kill
time.
	And so they set off—Clair leaving the
old homestead in the care of the lodge-
keeper under Dr. Bland’s supervision, and
the builders who were to repair, and in a
sense reconstruct the house, though as his
cousin Jane had said “without making it in
any way modern.” Mrs. Bland gave him
salutary advice, and their parting was the
only feature of his leave taking that was
sad in the least. He knew that she was not
altogether happy, and could scarcely com-
prehend why she was so interested in Rob
Harrison considering he was not her cousin;
and mentioned the fact to Mr. Harrison
soon after meeting him in London—Rob
Harrison was somewhat startled, when
Clair in his outspoken way said “what the
deuce makes cousin Jane worry over you,
have you heart trouble or consumption in
your family, she speaks of you as utterly
reckless of your own health and welfare?”
	Mr. Harrison replied briefly, “O, that’s
the way with women, I’m sure I’m much
obliged to her though, as no one cares for
me that I know of, lucky to have one
friend.”
	“You forget my sister Anna who
loves you very dearly,” “Ah well! yes per-
haps so but at present she has no thought
except for the one true lover, heaven grant
he may be worthy of such devotion.”
	So the conversation ended, but Rob
Harrison pondered upon Clair’s sayings
and it was a sort of link to bind him to life
even though the future was doubtful and
uncertain. He was too honorable to allow
himself to dwell upon even friendship with
the wife of another man, he knew too much
of the ways of the world, and the doings of
society to indulge in the luxuries that
might bring serious results, and he des-
pised flirtations, but he inwardly resolved
to watch over both the Baron’s daughter
and his niece, and to befriend them should
there ever be an occasion for his services, or
his advice. He little knew what the future
held in store or the changes of fortune that
were soon to transpire.
	One bright morning when all London
was astir with its accustomed noise and
activity Rob Harrison and Clair Hilliard
sailed away, without any regrets for the
gaities of the great metropolis only taking
with them one servant each. Mr. Harrison
was so accustomed to sea voyages that he
forgot his young friend until he was pros-
trated with sea-sickness and Joe was still

[column 3]
worse than his young master. Clair was
homesick now in earnest, he raved of his
sunny home, and his mother, and sitting
by and listening to his incoherencies, Rob
Harrison learned something of his young
life; that his mother who was in reality his
grandmother, had told him that some day
he would be acknowledged, that his dead
mother had exacted a promise from the
hard-hearted old Baron, and that then he
would not have the courage to recognize
his mother’s relatives, who had worshipped
her for her glorious voice and magnificent
beauty.  All this was very touching to a
nature like Mr. Harrison’s and he grew
fonder of Clair, watching over him with
tender solicitude.
	As Clair gradually recovered from his
severe attack of sea-sickness he had faint
remembrances of his ravings and inquired
of Mr. H. what he had said when he talked
so incessantly, but Mr. H. was too wise to
cause him uneasiness and kept the secret 
faithfully, though it seemed cruel that the
woman to whom he had given his ardent
youthful love should have been only second
in the affections of the crusty old Baron, and
was still unaware that the Baron’s hardness 
and oddities were mostly owing to losing
through the duplicity and double-dealing of
Lady Anna’s father-in-law, and his sweetheart
and affianced wife the beautiful imperious
Lady Walton, whose cold and haughty
manner was everywhere noticable. Clair’s
mother knew that she had to make
the sacrifice of her ambition, for
which she had already given up the
friends of her girlhood, for though lowly
born she inherited from a gifted ancestry a
voice and fascination of grace in style and
manner, that carried captive men and women
of all ranks and station who listened to her
bewitching tones. The Baron was charmed
with her voice and eyes, he possessed the
peculiar power often given to men, who have
no outward beauty but who seem inevitably
because of physical courage and strength of
will, to captivate women against their own
better judgment.
	Strange indeed that those noble-minded
women should have been attracted to one,
whom all his acquaintances looked upon as
hard, cold, morose and only companionable
in the hunting chase or at the races. This
is one of the paradoxes yet unexplained.
	The remainder of the long voyage in the
sailing vessel after Clair’s recovery was
particularly pleasant, the weather was fine
and the sea breeze exhilarating and Clair’s
exquisit voice and suave manner were a
constant source of enjoyment to the pas-
sengers especially the ladies on board, who
lavished upon him their sweetest smiled, and
the most polite attentions. Once or twice
Mr. H. thought Clair in danger of losing
his heart to one or other of the young girls,
who were certainly charming in conversation
and vivacious in manner, but Clair though
genial and courteous dispensed his attentions
equally and remained unentangled; un-
der the circumstances it was better so as
such an occurrence would have caused an
entire charge in the programme. Clair was
a delicate, sensitive boy and it was almost
remarkable that he was not more impression-
able but he was so innocent, and entirely
from conceit or affectation. Without, being
aware of it Clair was almost idolized by the
ladies wherever he went.
	Joe Berry survived his sea-voyage and
devoted himself exclusively to waiting up-
on the young Baron, following him every-
where and serving him faithfully. The


two gentlemen were admirably adapted to
make each other happy, the elder one
dignified, scholarly, reticent and sentimental
if not melancholy inclined, the other bril-
liant, musical, versatile and affable inclined
to even an easy freedom of manner, yet 
always maintaining the utmost decorum,
and never lacking in gallantry to women or
respect towards men older or more dis-
tinguished, making himself a general
favorite.
	Meantime while Rob Harrison and Clair
were sailing over the Western sea far away
from the shores of England, the bridal pair
were enjoying their honey-moon after the
manner of devoted lovers in sunny Italy,
and Dr. Bland and his sedate and accom-
plished wife were completely engrossed with
domestic duties; for a new phase of life had
come to them in the advent of a baby boy,
who came with such beauty and innocence,
as to awaken all the chords of affection
that lay dormant in the hearts of the fond
parents. A veritable joy in the household.
All the parishioners rejoiced, and when baby
was christened there was a great rivalry
among the ladies as to who should be chos-
en godmother. From that time Mrs. Bland
was more intensely devoted to her home and
family, almost forgetting Anna and Clair,
save at long intervals, when letters reached
her of the adventures of the one party, or
overflowing happiness of the other.
	Time passed, Maitland and Lady Anna
returned from the continent and took up
their abode in a fashionable part of London,
living in the most aristocratic style, Lady
Walton senior having superintended all the
arrangements, for Lady Anna was totally
unaccustomed to society and had no tact
or talent in such matters. Her native inno-
cence was her chief attraction, there was
something queenly in her dignity neverthe-
less, and wherever she went her beauty and
modesty were commented upon. Her first
visit to the old castle was quite romantic,
after her long absence, the old servants were
obsequious in their attentions and every
new feature of the old building was told
over in detail.
	Her cousin's baby was the most interest-
ing and she never wearied of its praises and
grew almost as fond of the little fellow as
the fond mother herself. She roamed
about the parks and groves, as in the days
of her childhood, visiting her favorite
haunts, and cheering the hearts of the
tenantry with her hearty good will and lit-
tle gifts from abroad.


