WOMEN’S PAPERS.

	READING recently an editorial, published
in the Woman's Tribune,—the statement
of Mrs. Colby, the Editor, and by the way,
a very able and efficient person for that
position, in reference to the low price of the
paper and the paying circulation, the
similarity of the circumstances to our little
EXPONENT, seemed to call for something
on the subject in our columns.
	Mrs. Colby says the price of the paper
does not pay; but she has been in a large
measure doing missionary work in the suf-
frage cause and so forth; and finally as a
result of the lack of money patronage finds
herself obliged to issue for the present, four
pages instead of eight as heretofore; a step
she says which may be considered back-
ward. Formerly the paper was issued
monthly, then she made it weekly for the
same price etc;—but without capital to back
it, this missionary work has fallen heavily
upon a struggling periodical, this and much
more sound logic bearing upon the same
question.
	The WOMAN'S EXPONENT has done and
is doing missionary work in many respects,
and has not been patronized as it actually
deserves to have been, considering what it
has done, and is doing all the time for the
women of this Territory, and of the Church
of Latter-day Saints throughout all the
Stakes of Zion.
	Whenever any subject pertaining to wo-
men is being treated upon historically or
generally, the EXPONENT is the record re-


ferred to; this has been spoken of so often
seems almost to have passed into a proverb,
in reference to ihe Relief Society that it
but yet some whose influence should
help in this matter almost ignore the fact
of its service to the organizations, and upon
questions of woman’s advancement.
	Would it not be well to make a little 
extra exertion to sustain the first woman’s,
paper started in this Rocky Mountain region,
and actually the first except one “The New
North West” so far as the writer has been
able to ascertain after diligent inquiry, this
side the Mississippi River.
	The Utah Woman Suffrage Association
members should patronize this paper, be-
cause it publishes all minutes of the meet-
ings held here and in other parts of the
Territory whenever possible; and also all 
notices of meetings and conventions in the
interest of suffrage elsewhere,that will give
the ladies here the information required to
speed them onward in the path of progress
politically. The general news of women
should be a sufficient impetus without going
into details to increase the circulation, so
that the money might be forthcoming to
sustain it; it should be remembered that al-
though a few may be very prompt in pay-
ments that many are not, and consequently
delays in issuing, because there must be
means on hand to pay down printer’s and ’
postage bills, and some other incidental ex-
penses. Times are hard and many demands
are made, but the women of Utah should
sustain their own paper, that represents the
cause in which they are engaged, rather
than the papers that have no special inter-
est for them, or the cause nearest and
dearest to their hearts.


