					SARAH J. SUDWEEKS.

	RESOLUTIONS of respect to the memory of Sis-
ter Mary Ellen Woodhouse White who departed
this life September 6th, 1892. She was born in
Adwick, Lee Street, Yorkshire, England June 21,
1848. Emigrated with her parents to St. Louis,
subsequently to Salt Lake Valley.
	Whereas,—Our Heavenly Father in His infinite
wisdom has removed from our midst our beloved
Sister Mary Ellen Woodhouse White, and—
	Whereas,—She labored faithfully as Treasurer
of the Relief Society, and was a generous and
useful member thereof, and a kind and well be-
loved companion, mother and neighbor. There-
fore be it—
	Resolved;—that we the officers and mem-
bers of the Beaver Ward Relief Society mourn
her loss, realiztng that we have lost an efficient
officer and noble sister.
	Resolved,—That we tender our heartfelt sym-
pathy to her bereaved husband Elder S. O.
White, also to her children,—
	Resolved,—That a copy of these resolutions be
placed on the Record of the Relief Society, and
a copy be sent to the bereaved family and to the
“WOMAN'S EXPONENT.”
				RUTH W. TYLER, President.
				ALICE M. T. TANNER, Secretary.
BEAVER CITY, Nov. 7th, 1892.

	IN memory of Sister Annie Mikesel and daugh-
ter of George and Frances H. Booth Hansen. De-
parted this life Oct. 22nd, 1892. Born Sept. 6th,
1860, at Mill Creek Ward, where she resided with
her parents until her marriage. She was a faith-
ful worker in the Sabbath School, an active mem-
ber in the Y. L. M. I. A. also Ass’t. Sec. in the
Relief Society. When the “Home Dramatic
Club” was organized in the Ward she was chosen
a member, in these duties she was faithful and ef-
ficient. She was very gentle and retiring in her
disposition. She was a dutiful daughter and de-
voted wife and mother.
	She was earnest in the work of God all her life,
in her dying moments she bore a strong testi-
mony to the truth of her religion, it seemed the
vision of the world to which she was so shortly
to be removed was opened to her view she spoke
words of encouragement to her broken hearted

[column 2]
husband, father, mother, sisters and relatives,
told them not to weep, for tomorrow would be
her brightest day. Sister Annie was the mother
of five children two boys and three girls. She
was called to part with her oldest a lovely boy
when eleven months old, also her second child a
beautiful girl at the age of sixteen months, which
was a severe trial.
	“Mother,” she would exclaim “I weep for my
children because they are not,” she has gone to
join them, where there is no more sickness or
sorrow. “Blessed are they that die in the Lord
for their reward is sure. May the Lord comfort
those that mourn.
	She leaves two lovely little girls and a baby
boy eight days old, a devoted husband, parents,
one brother and five sisters, to mourn her loss.
	The funeral services were held at the family
residence in the Fourth Ward, the speakers were
the Bishop’s Counselers of the Fourth Ward, also
Elders George Saville, and Joseph R. Carlisle of
Mill Creek Ward. The remarks were very con-
soling to the bereaved family. Brother Carlisle
spoke highly of Sister Mickesel he had been ac-
quainted with her from childhood. 
	Amongst these present were President E. Hill
and C. E. Snedaker of the Relief Society of Mill
Creek Ward, also Clara E. Carlisle President of
Y. L. M. I. A. and many other friends and asso-
ciates who came to pay their last respects to the
dear departed one.
