the sun at last sinks to rest, and the angels
come with sweetest music to bear you over
the silvery river, you may be surrounded
by a loving posterity who have lived and
are living in such a way as to insure our
meeting again in that world where all is
love and contentment. This, mother dear,
is my most sincere wish and prayer; could
I wish or pray for more? If so I do with
all my heart for I know the occasion justifies
my so doing. Your birthday! How I
should love to be home to day, to be able to
tell you how much your children love you,
and how hard it is to live away from you.
How impossible! Land and sea to the ex-
tent of ten thousand miles separates mother
from her son. As it is I scarcely have time
to write a respectable letter for I am head
over heels in my Arabic studies, and as I
have employed a teacher to give me a few
lessons I am anxious to make hay while the
sun shines. Besides I have lost so much
time in this mission that it seems I never
can pay up for it, you see when I first came
to Turkey I started to study the Turkish
language, for three months I pegged away
at it and had just got a good start when I
left Constantinople thinking I could study
the language better here in Palestine.
When I arrived here I found that they
spoke nothing but Arabic in this part of the
country. I decided to leave Bro. Haag
here to labor with the Arabs and I would
go farther north where they spoke Turkish
and continue my studying. Bro. Haag was
taken sick and you know the rest. I had
to remain in this part of the country and
accordingly started to learn a third language
in a year and a half, within the year and a
half that I had been away from home, it
seems like I have lost with the Turkish
language about five months, and now I had
to start on another, the most difficult of
all. I know the Lord has blessed me with
this language for I make better progress
than I did with either of the others.
	It is over a month since I heard from any
one on the American side of the Atlantic.
Day after day the Postmaster shakes his
head with a bland smile as I poke mine
through the window with a “Anything for

[Column Two]
Musser this morning?” I am quite sure
some of my mail has been lost on the way.
There was a wreck here a few days ago, I
stood calmly on the shore and watched
twenty five persons drown. Twenty four
hours after, a bunch or package, of my
mail was picked up on shore where the mad
waters had been kind enough to throw it.
It was a package of newspapers that had
been two months on the way. One of the
gentlemen that was wrecked had a letter in
his pocket for me: but in his struggle for 
life he lost it, and I don’t know who it was
from or anything about it. The gentleman
that lost it lost his wife and two bright
children at the same time.
	My health remains “A No!" for which
I feel to thank the Lord. The weather is 
still very hot, the oranges are just getting 
ripe.—I bought a dozen the other day, great
large luscious ones for five cents and I firm-
ly believe, by the way the orange vender
smiled as he pocketed my cash, that he
charged me three cents too much. Give
my love to father and all the loved ones
and accept a bushel from your affectionate
son. 			Don C. W. Musser.


