NOTES AND NEWS.

	GREAT difficulties bring out great vir-
tues. 
	A GREAT  person  is known by his ca-
luminators.
	BETTER part with our dignity than your
safety. 
	LOVE sought is good, but given unsought
is better.
	THE English laws punish vice.  The
Chinese laws do more; they reward virtue.
—Goldsmith.
	THE liberties of the press and the liberties
of the people must stand or fall together.—
Hume.
	HE that would make real progress in
knowledge must dedicate hisage as well as
youth, the latter growth as well as the first
fruits, at the altar of truth.—Berkeley.
	AT the inauguration of the Populists in
Kansas, among the speakers announced
were Mrs Annie L. Diggs and Mrs. Mary
E. Lease.
	MRS. MAUDE HOWE ELLIOTT, daughter
of Julia Ward Howe, is about to enter on
the stage, as public lecturer, and begins
with an address on the Salvation Army in
Boston.
	THE Woman's Tribune was issued
daily during the national suffrage conven-
tion at Washington. Send ten cents for the
five numbers to Mrs. Clara B. Colby, 1325
Tenth Street, N. Y., Washington D. C. 
	FRANCES WILLARD and LADY HENRY
SOMERSET are addressing great meetings
in England, amid much enthusiasm. A
monster reception was lately given Miss
Willard by the English Methodists.
	“PARTIES of friends or families desiring
to rent furnished one or two flats, twenty-
five minutes by rail from Columbian Ex-
position grounds, Chicago, can do so by ap-
plication to Ella Tremain Whitford, Harvey,
Ill. Good references exchanged.”
	MRS. MICHA DYER, president of the
Woman’s Charity Club of Boston is re-
ported to be a member of twenty-three clubs
and societies. Of three, she is president,
and until recently she was at the head of
the Ladies’ Association.
	THE Conversational Club of the East
End, Cleveland, O., is stndying “The
Problems of the day.” Among the topics
are “Taxes,” “Immigration,” “The Tar-
ff,” “Commercial and Political Ethics,”
and “Sanitary Science.”
	A ST. LOUIS woman has lately perfected
a singular invention. She has applied for
a patent to cover the process of making
"sweet potato flour." The processes are
those of peeling the potato and kiln-drying
the peel so that it will keep for any length
of time as a food for live stock; of drying
and grinding the potato into three distinct
grades of flour, and also of slicing and dry-
ing it in the form of “Saratoga chips.”


WHAT a grand thing it is to feel that we
can live if we will! It wants only the wish
to be morally great—the wish translating
itself into moral endeavor. We can all at-
tain that supremacy and to the weakest
and poorest debarred by nature and society
from personal prosperity is opened the noble
path of moral grandeur—the royal road of
virtue.
	MARGARET DELAND, the novelist, is fond
of snakes. One summer, when she was
boarding in the country, the land-lord, al-
though very loath to lay any restrictions
upon his charming guest, was finally
obliged to tell her that he must ask her to
discontinue her habit of bringing home
snakes and keeping them in her room, as it
was a cause of great uneasiness to the other
boarders.
	BY invitation of the officers of the Colum-
bian Exposition, the General Federation of
Women’s Clubs will hold a council in Chica-
go next July. Mrs. Fanny P. Palmer, of
the Providence (R. I.) Women’s Club, is
chairman of the committee of the General
Federation for the World’s Fair. The New
Cycle for December, contains a portrait of
Mrs. Palmer.
	A SOCIETY unique among women’s or-
ganizations of a national character is the
Woman’s Republican Association of the
United States. The decision of this society
to become a member of the National Coun-
cil of women of the United States adds
greatly to the value of the latter organization,
the aim of which is to represent not num-
bers but ideas.
	At the present writing the National Coun-
cil of women consists of thirteen national
organizations of women pursuing thirteen
different lines of work all for the betterment
of the present conditions and the uplifting
of humanity.  Among these are missionary
societies and associations for the furtherance
of education peace, social purity, suffrage,
temperance, and philanthropy.


