EXPOSITION.

	THE World’s Fair work is progressing
safely and surely in these parts, if one can
judge from appearances. Many ladies are
energetic and giving freely of time and
means others are more backward and need
constant persuading and even urging. Yet
in all probability there will be compara-
tively a good representation from this Ter-
ritory, as we know many articles are begun
by those who have taste and skill, as well as
perseverance to accomplish what they un-
dertake to do. Thinking of the importance
of such an exhibit by the women of the
whole civilized world, it appears strange
that any woman should need encouraging
upon a matter of public interest and benefit,
such as this will most certainly be.
	The women engaged in it, should take
pains to read what others, in the various
states and territories, are doing, and thus
become enlightened generally, so as not to
fall behind the great army of workers.
Money is scarce, and other efforts should
be more energetically applied, many things
can be done with but very little ready cash.
“Where there is a will there is a way,”
may apply in this case as in many others.
	It is a pity that things have been pushed
so late in the season, but improve the lit-
tle time remaining to the best advantage.
	The silk portieres for the Woman’s Build-
ing, are something to be proud of, and the
furnishing of the Utah building will give
the ladies a fair opportunity of displaying
taste, ingenuity, harmony and skill.
	Statistics are' rather slow in coming in,
considering how urgent have been the re-
quests sent out to have them furnished,and
the time it will take the Territorial Com-
mittee to prepare them after they have all
been received.
	There has never been in any age of the
world, such an opportunity given for the
educational progress and advancement in
all departments of intelligence, as will be
afforded by the Columbian Exposition.
What its results and achievements will be,
must assuredly depend largely upon women

[Column 2]
themselves, as there seems to be no bar
to the progress, no limit to the free exercise
and development of whatever powers they
may bring into the field of art, science,
professions, industry or general enterprises,
	It is not likely that all will be equally
inspired with the enthusiasm and courage 
of the momentous occasion, such has never
been the case in any age of the world; but
there are always some who feel the stirrings
of the noble impulses that lead forward the
multitudes who follow on slowly after
them, when once the highway has been
cast up, and so it will be now. The gener-
ations after will realize perhaps more than
those of today, the greatness and magnitude
of this mammoth undertaking that reaches
out to all nations, to come hither to this
goodly land Columbia and compare ways,
means and methods, as well as material ex-
hibits.
	From time to time we have published in
regard to what women are doing, and it is
desirable, that the women of this Territory
should make themselves familiar with the
general arrangements, so that they may
not fall far behind in intelligence, methods
or positive information. There are many
notes of matters pertaining thereto in the
various publications of the day. The
DESERET EVENING NEWS contains, from
time to time, the latest telegrams in refer-
ence to these matters, also the Salt Lake
HERALD and other daily papers, so that any
one need not be ignorant in reference to
what is being done elsewheie as well as in
Utah.


