[Optional Lesson: The Counselors to President Heber J. Grant (Continued) by T. Edgar Lyon]
844  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— DECEMBER  1949 
Vi/om    II  ieetifig — Sewing 
children's  Clothing 
(A  Course  for  Optional  Use  by  Wards  and  Branches  at  Work  Meeting) 
Lesson  6-Boys'  Clothing 
/ean  Kidgcs  Jennings 
For  Tuesday,  March  14,  1950 
COME  items  that  would  normally  Boys  give  little  thought  to  the  con- 
come  under  the  heading  of  sequences  of  their  rough  play,  and 
"Boys'  Clothing"  have  been  dis-  too  often  buttons  are  torn  right  out 
cussed  in  previous  lessons  and,  since  of  shirts,  necessitating  extensive 
coats  will  be  dealt  with  in  the  lesson  mending.  Added  reinforcement  un- 
to follow,  this  lesson  will  be  con-  der  the  buttons  when  making  shirts 
fined  to  boys'  shirts  and  suits  for  will  eliminate  a  lot  of  repair  work 
small  boys.  later.  And,   last  but  not  least,  be 
It    is    very    practical    and    quite  very  firm  about  sewing  on  buttons, 
simple  to  make  shirts  for  boys  of  In  making  suits  for  small  boys, 
all  ages.  Patterns  can  be  purchased  the   greatest  problem   is   with    the 
in  all  sizes,  from  the  smallest  to  the  trousers.   Seats   must  have   enough 
largest.   Materials   of  all   types  are  length  and  spread  to  allow  room  for 
available.    Broadcloth    is    ideal    for  squatting  and  jumping.  It  is  neces- 
shirts  and  is  probably  the  most  com-  sary  that  they  should  not  bind  in 
monly  used  fabric.  At  present,  the  any  way. 
younger   boys    are    favoring   bright  The  majority  of  suits   for  small 
flannels  for  school  and  sports.    The  boys  have  a  troublesome  fly  that  is 
stores  are  showing  a  large  variety  of  difficult  to  make  and  often  looks 
spun  rayon  fabrics  that  are  ideal  for  unsightly.  It  is  better  to  make  suits 
shirts,  both  for  sport  and  dress  wear,  on  which  the  back  and  front  button 
You  will  find  it  easy  to  please  your  independently.    Hence,    it    is    not 
menfolk  with  shirt  material.  necessary  to  unbutton  the  front  in 
In  making  shirts,  have  them  order  to  drop  the  back.  A  two-but- 
roomy  so  that  they  do  not  bind  at  ton  drop  front  is  formed  by  having 
all.  Make  them  long  enough  to  continuous  plackets  on  either  side 
stay  securely  tucked  into  trousers,  of  the  front  and  this  replaces  the 
Always  use  felled  seams  in  construct-  fly. 
ing  them.  These  seams  are  stronger.  Avoid    separate    belts    that    run 
look  more   tailored,  and   stand   up  through  numerous  straps  and  then 
under     repeated     laundering.    The  buckle   in   a   complicated   manner, 
more  a  boy's  shirts  are  like  his  fa-  These  only  complicate  a  suit  for  a 
ther's,  the  better  he  will  like  them,  small  child  and  we  should  aim  to 
Always  sew  an  extra  strip  of  cloth  make  him  as  independent  of  help  as 
under    buttons     and    buttonholes,  possible.
