[Relief Society in the Lives of Our Sisters in Europe by Nida A. Taggart]

Relief Society in the Lives of Our Sisters in &urope Nida A. Taggart Former President, Swiss-Austrian Mission Relief Society ask for the Spirit of the Lord and for an interest in your faith and prayers that I may be able to tell you what I have in my heart. I was able, from my mission, to gain a deeper testimony of the di- RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE vinity of Relief Society work and the effectiveness that it has in the lives of our sisters in Europe. It has been the shining light in most of their lives.
These sisters in many of those lands where women have been given few, if any, privileges, have found in the Relief Society work their place in the sun.
They have the spirit of mercy.
They visit the sick and they never go empty-handed, if it is only a flower they take with them.
They have little money to give, but they give their time and their love and all of their effort.
They love the lessons. 'They were thrilled to know that they were studying the same lessons that you are studying here. 'They have some very fine class leaders.
Everyone takes part. You know that love is the foundation of democracy, and, in these troubled times in Europe, what greater gift could we give those women than our wonderful Relief Society program and to bring them the gospel of Jesus Christ?
Never in the history of our mission have the doors been opened to us as they are at present. In Germany, Sister Wunderlich is doing a magnificent work in bringing order out of chaos. She has brought those sisters together.
When they had a convention in Frankfurt, they displayed twentyfive thousand articles of clothing that their sisters had made out of materials from the welfare clothing that needed re-making.
They were feeling that they, too, had their welfare project, and they are beginning to be able to help themselves. The Swiss sisters were not hurt 801 by the war, yet they were very active and eager to help their less fortunate neighbors. 'They gathered clothing and food and gave their precious food coupons in order to send food and clothing to Germany and Austria.
Every member child in Austria was brought into Switzerland and cared for in the homes of our sisters. 'They were cared for from three to six months, fed and clothed and rehabilitated. It was a marvelous thing for our sisters to do. In that first winter, the winter of 1947, Our wonderful Relief Society president in Vienna had a little plot of ground an hour and a half out from the center of the city. She traveled out there every day to take care of that plot of ground herself. She planted and harvested those potatoes and she harvested enough to help every family in that branch. She said to me: "Sister 'Taggart, it was like the story of the loaves and the fishes. I have never harvested as many potatoes before or since." As mission wives in Europe, the wives of the mission presidents are doing a magnificent job. I would like to pay tribute to them here.
Those sisters in Europe would love to join the body of the Church. I think in every one of their hearts is that wish sometime to come to Zion, but next to that is the thought that they are a part of this great Relief Society organization, that they are doing all they can to further the work of the Lord in those countries. May he bless them with everything they need, that they may have courage and faith, whatever may come, I pray. Ctober Jes. - The additional] li t acquaintance With spel relative to things."
Even a s]j € to lS indeed Satismg.
There will b | Cty likely whet for more, PPortunity tying in SOspel Punciples also In ther lessons Another Suggestion: t scat © ate confident that this Course €r your Munition too far. Don' In glish literature 1 TY to cover 5 uch Material that val you can Only flit from one +h; another g will prove of alue to the women of € thing to of the Church having them req and Study Justice, great literature, that by so doing they to leave one Well-deNOt Waste time ON inferior Tead ned Impression With your Class Ing Materia] expect jt members than 0 leave S€vera] hazy, "NCOurage + m to Upervise Confused one Ore closely the Teading ha its of ake generous se € text Cr children and provide them CTe ls muc valuable bac groun ith worthwhi] literature In their Material in jp Own hom Ne Project for O S€ maps and Pictures freely, Re Relief Society hers Would be to member, Visual aids € Just as im.
Naugurate the abit of Teading aloud Portant jn adult teach 48 in chi] together jn the hom This Could eaching. The Natio!
Geog aphic wel] be NCOrporated to the amily Or April 1949, seems have been Hour Program, Fo, cvery member Planned Purposely fo, this Ourse the family, of Suitable &€, to take C contains Much excel] € materia] turn in réq Ing aloud from some and Pictures Pertinent Ngtish Iterary Mast Tpiece d Literatur, For the €sson the ficial Page go? Chairman Wor Meeting Committee PLANNING and Conducting Work leisure momen meetings which Sisters wil] of effor fee] they 'nNot afford + Miss is g teal challen TS, lored des &n besides struction jp Cedlework and cro. Nd housekeepers has et skills <TC aie bagi Tules 4 place in this day's TOogtam, that can famed which govern may have alm st as m ny different beauty, both of form and Color. The Ings to q 48 there are women | vely crafts hich hay lived so Present, since the Tange of Interests long Should hot be forgott among oyr Sisters j SO wide and edica] Clence, MOreover, tel].
Their heeds so diverse. US Of the therapeutic alue 0 work ¢ are very Proud of the fine inIng with the hands. Struction Which has been Siven You stake leaders "annot plan for Tough th Suggested sewing the Wards but you can plan with Course, JF there is q Ingle young them Fy your ward Visits you woman in Your wards who does not know the Condition o the various feel able to Sew for her children, yoy Wards. You can hose which need to "lCourage d Mstruct her ack by Suggestions and demonstra The pride Of creative COMP tig 7 your union ceting depart.
Ment and the Pleasure of Seeing your Ment children Well dresseg by the labor and skill of your o intangibles but t Can suggest better oy.
Nization of the work a ry Nd ways to wn han Interest and bring in NeW women, e 0 less req] You can help raise tandards.
Sugthan the 4 ual saving in dollars ang new ideas In andwork and ents which thi, art Brings ¢ h omemaking, ang cal] ome, Work Jeetings should CO serve th attention to NE articles or books on be Planned € home In ey ome man 4sement and ho © decoration You e Way poscan stimulate the wards to do sea. Sible. Ag YOu check oye he achal Planning. You can be contivities of any homemak you be.
Stantly aware of trends Nd new 1 to see th POssibilities Of eac Ideas 'that will helpful] 0 you work day > Nomemaker buyMembers er, bookkeep > decorator COok, Sisters, | Pray our Heavenly Fa laundress, dish her, telephone OPther that he will oy; © us, that he €rator, ther, seq stress, "Se, will give us ingenuity d Imaging.
With garde ing "anning thrown fon that we May mak homemak In besid Ing attractive to OUr Sisters that C is natural for women to Want we may foster the Ove for Creative tO create beauty With their hands. Skills, that hroy Our efforts Almost ey woman has som, thing Latter-day aint homes m SHE Dicks y and works On in her better pj their better S to have 800d govern In this World of Ours Where the Ment—one that jis fair, Progressive thing ve seem have th wena 'S Confusion, © need the suidance and dependab] 4nd help of O "avenly Father * 134th section of the Doctrine along Politica] a, Well as Spititua] and Ovenants js a dec atation of lines S given us the Precious What The Chure f esus Christ of gift of freedo: € must guard jt Latter-qy Saints believes to rte know that "eternal vigilance js ASPects of 4 mode] Sovernment. It the Ptice of liberty," Sters, that you yOur stakes, | Can see that there wil] Can catch the Vision of Ss happy Tesults, | Work 4mong the Lamanite Sisters OPe We wil] Not be too much and that you will be able to 48s bound by patterns. The regular pat the vision and the enthusiasm °n to tern of One Relief Society 4 week © sisters with Whom you Work, need not be followed. The course €n all o YOu return to your of gt dy must be adjusted to needs homes, if y INspire another fifty The In lan work IS mor Or less of °r a hundred nN IN each 4M experiment yet. We wi  RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE to get the benefit of your suggestions also, as you find effective ways of teaching.
Last month, in our meeting in the Temple, President Clark made the statement that he had spent several years down in Mexico among the Lamanites, the pure-blooded Indians, and also the Mexicans. He found that they have a greater discernment than we do, generally. If you think with just an outward show of friendliness, you can go into their lives, you are badly mistaken. An Indian can see through you clear into the heart, and he knows whether you are friend or foe. Now sisters, the most important thing in this whole Indian program, as I see it, is education, divided into two phases. The first phase is education of the Latter-day Saints at home, some of whom need their hearts opened, cleansed and purged and purified and made ready to accept the program. And phase two is the proselyting of the Lamanites themselves. The scriptures are filled with prophecies in connection with this people. Why, there are few subjects on which there is so much revealed. The prophecies must, and will be fulfilled.
They can be fulfilled only by our help. We must go out and do this work. Now, we have tried segregation of the Indians in this nation for a hundred years. It did not work.
Segregation has been almost a complete failure.
Many of them are still "blanket" Indians,-after a century of segregation. The program of the Church must be one of assimilation and integration. We must take them into our arms, into our 805 hearts, into our Relief Societies, into our sacrament meetings, into our Sunday Schools, into our Primaries, into our Mutual, and into our hearts. I am reminded of what Peter said. You remember he thought the gospel was for the Jews only. The Lord revealed that the gospel was for gentiles as well, but the Jews could hardly believe it. 'They, including the apostles, had grown up with the thought all those years, that the gospel was for the Hebrews and that the Samaritans and all the other groups of those Gentiles along the Mediterranean coast were not clean. And then you will remember in the vision Peter saw all the reptiles and the beasts of every kind, and Peter said "... God hath shewed me that I should not call any man common or unclean." I think the Lord put the reptiles and the snakes and the beasts all in this vision, so that Peter would know the extent of the inclusion and that there was no one to whom the gospel should not come, even the poor and the degraded and the unclean, and so he finally received his testimony. And he went about preaching the gospel to the gentiles.
Some of his own brethren, even in the Council of the Twelve, began to argue with him, and finally Peter said to them: "What was I, that I could withstand God?" Now, sisters, the Lord has shown that he is willing to accept the Indian. Who are you and who am I, that we can withstand God? 'The Book of Mormon and the Doctrine and Covenants are full of revelations indicating that these people must receive the gospel and that 806
God does and we must, accept them. Sisters, we must come to a program of assimilation and integration, and we must learn the lesson that Peter learned, and that others have had to learn. "