[Visiting Teacher Messages: "For This Cause" by Mary Grant Judd]

Visiting Teacher Messages,' by Mary G. Judd; and digests of the talks '""The Worth of The Relief Society Magazine to Latter-day Saint Women" by Elder Lynn McKinlay and "The Value of Great Literature and How to Gain an Appreciation of It" by Elder Briant S. Jacobs, have been sent to the stakes in mimeograph form.
Following is a schedule of the meetings: DEPARTMENTAL MEETINGS—Wednesday, September 28, 1949
Morning—io-12
Noon—Assembly Hall Bt a Ethel C. Smith, Chairman 800 Bs > Work Meeting 2 2000cccee eee eee Afternoon—1: 30-2:30—Assembly Hall Visiting 'Teaching -: e.0- 0
Social Science -2 0..0c--c2ee0-ee-eeeeee — 2245-3745
Indian Relations Secretaries Relief Society Magazine Music  <i Leone O. Jacobs, Chairman wooo Leone G. Layton, Chairman ty G. Judd, Chairman Edith S. Elliott, Chairman Thursday, September 29, 1949
Officers Meeting—Assembly Hall Morning—lo0-12
Noon General Session—Tabernacle Afternoon—z2:00-4:00 <= DEPARTMENTAL MEETING MORNING SESSION-SEPTEMBER 28, 1949
Digest—Untroduction to Lesson Courses Counselor Marianne C. Sharp DUCATION is an important part of the life of a Latter-day Saint. The Lord has said "It is impossible for a man to be saved in ignorance" and "Whatever principle of intelligence we attain unto in this life, it will mse with us in the resurrection. And if a person gains more knowledge and intelligence in this life through his diligence and obedience than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come." The general board is proud of the courses which are designed to be presented this coming year. We feel that they are of vital interest and importance in the lives of our members, and trust that you sisters of the stakes will see that the true purpose of each course is attained in the lessons as taught in the wards. We wish to express appreciation to the writers of our lessons who give fully and freely of their great talents for the upbuilding of the sisters of Relief Society. 'Their reward, sisters, lies in the benefit and enlightenment which come to you and the other women of the Church, who study these excellent and outstanding lessons. Digest—