[Report and Official Instructions by President Belle S. Spafford]

Report and Official GDnstructions General President Belle S.
Spafford a you a ONCE again it becomes privilege to present to brief report of the status of Relief Society, this time for 1948. Our hearts are filled with gratitude to our Heavenly Father, and to the splendid women who have made possible the growth of the society in all of its aspects. We acknowledge the wonderful support and direction that have come to us from the Priesthood authorities.
General and Stake Boards € have at present twenty-three members of the general board.
Since our last conference it has been necessary to release two of our beloved and capable board members, Sister Priscilla L, Fvans and Sister Florence G. Smith.
Only one board member has been appointed since last October, Sister Nellie W. Neal, former president of the Farr West Stake, who was named to the general board in May 1940. We have at present stake board organizations in all of the one hundred Seventy-four stakes of the Church, with Relief Societies in all of the forty-four missions of the Church except two, the Japanese and the Chinese Missions. | Work in Missions We are now receiving annual reports and hearing regularly from all] of the missions, Including the foreign-speaking missions. We are encouraged by the growth of the mission Relief Societies and by the spirit with which the work is conducted there.
More and more the Mission societies are conforming to the uniform Program of Relief So. Ciety, and are striving to conduct their work in accordance with recommended procedure. The general board is beginning to build up a foreign language department of lessons, and has asked the Missions to supply copies of all translated Relief Society lessons. We believe this wil] Prove of inestimable value in the future. Are also asking them, as well as you sisters in the stakes, to keep on hand a copy of A Centenary of Relief Society and the Handbook of In.
Structions as well as bound volumes of The Relief Society Magazine.
Membership and Attendance The membership of Relief Society was increased during 1948 by 3,843 women, giving usa total mem bership of 115,686 members as of De- 808 cember 31, 1948. Sisters, as long as I preside over the society, you will hear of the importance of extending the blessings and benefits of mem.
Bership to every Latter-day Saint woman. Visiting Teacher Messages We commend you most heartily for your continued efforts in strengthening and extending the visiting teaching services. The quality of the work continues to improve according to frequent reports received at the general office and the messages are well received by both visiting teachers and the women in the homes. The delivery of the message remains of vital importance even though reports of the number of homes in which the message was presented have been discontinued. Family Visits Compassionate services show a substantial increase and the sisters continue their loyal support of the Church Welfare Program. The study of a family situation for the purpose of determining its problems and its needs should be carefully, intelligently, and unhurriedly made.
Usually it is not possible in a single visit to understand the family, its basic problems, and the resources within it, For this reason we recommend to you a careful consideration of follow-up visits and their value.
Even when the need for help has ceased, we would recommend that the friendly interest of the president continue to be expressed through visits to the home.