[Social Science: The Obligations of Citizenship by G. Homer Durham]

Social Science—Latter-day Saint Political Thought Lesson 5—The Obligations of Citizenship and the Responsibility of the State—(D. & C. 134:5, 6, 7, 8) Elder G. Homer Durham For Tuesday, March 28, 1950
Objective: To show the responsibility of the State to enact proper laws and of the people to uphold them.
Relation of the Individual to Types of Government HE tise in Communism, Fascism, and various types of totalitarian States has emphasized the problem that modern man has in adjusting the needs of his personal life to that of the group. In Communist countries, men must bow to the will of the State as interpreted by its Communist rulers. In Communism, as in other dictatorships, the highest good and, therefore, the noblest obligation of citizenship (if it can be called noble), is to follow "the party line' and obey accordingly the leaders of the State. The same doctrine in one form or another characterizes all totalitarian States.
What are the obligations of citizenship?
Must men always, blindly, obey?
What are the responsibilities of the State to its citizens?
Here are two fundamental questions the nature of which permeates headlines in the daily newspaper. The Declaration of Belief Regarding Government and Laws charts a certain, clear course as to what the answers to these questions should be. Upholding Just Governments Should) men always obey State? The Should they obey every law? The Declaration answers (verse five): We believe that all men are bound to sustain and uphold the respective governments in which they reside, while protected in their inherent and inalienable rights by the laws of such governments; and that sedition and rebellion are unbecoming every citizen thus protected, and should be punished accordingly; and that all governments have a right to enact such laws as in their own judgments are best calculated to secure the public interest; at the same time, however, holding sacred the freedom of conscience.
When should men obey the State?
Should men obey every State? 'The answer is clear. All men, everywhere, should support the government in which they reside so long as they are protected in their fundamental rights.
Perhaps the most fundamental right is that of free agency. And the free agency of man expresses itself most fundamentally in freedom of conscience, particularly religious freedom.
Have governments the right to enact any law they see fit? The answer is definitely "no".
Government has the right to enact laws. But only such laws, says the Declaration, as "are best calculated to secure the public interest; at the same time, however, ] RELIEF SOCIETy MAGAZINE_DECEMpEp 1949 holding Sacted the freedom of Consuch, being Placed for he protec. Science," AY law passe by any tion of th lnocent a the punish.
Sovernment at an time, therefore, ment of the guilty; and that to th Must meet two tests.
These ests Jaws all men OWe respect and de ae: (1) Does it meet the Public CTeNce, as Without interest? ( 2) Does it Tespect free b om of Conscience? It is j i: for the Xpress pur POse of Tegulating Our Interests as Nal interest."
This individual, Means in the World of Internationa] di Iculties; whic Must be broader than Selfish National; IC € public Interest May quite 7; N verse six Is the docTule of law, Which » Tespect for "eve t Individual It is significant that Y best be tested, to one of the tasks of Tulers js Pointed out to (1) to public e Innocent, and (2) Punish the € test of freedom of suilty—undey the rule of law. Conscience, 'TF is j SUPPose an Protection of Li P; professes oh. F consej CIS seven fol] ce to traffic.
Courts and Or, like th € of the funda. Mental, jf not the €Ise six States ci Well as the inheritance ot English liberty. V, Ored in his € belj Magistrates a, LESSON DEPARTMENT life fox thousands @) Jesus Pinion for Seditious Ppurthe The Communists In RELIEF SOCIETy MAGAZINE_DECEM pep 1949 ment,' © Meaning of this seems Questions for Discuss; pettectly Clear, At a first Teadi 1 ading, verse eight might Suggest the theory of Punishmee Seen Menbet@, jp Ound in Gilbert ad «4
Sullivan's Ordinances fe) Operetta, The Mikado, F "let the Punishment does the Ould men Obey the law as © of the State and Sovernment? 2. When men qj dency Of the 1
When ' distinction IS possible be. TWeen "public Interest" and | same Ime, the Interest?"
Clear that tendenc; 9. What Should he How Latter-day Sai t attitude of aints be towards | US€ ment? (Wha | 1 800d laws against good laws ° punishment."
What are the tests of 4 800d Jaw? of hard 8 they had fit; and the RELIEF SOCIETy MAGAZINE_DECEMBEp 1949 years of age, commenced to herd €came gq member of the Stake presj.
Sheep and do other fa labor, At dency, Jp 1907 he was Called to be the age of Sixteen he Jef} home, ang Presiding Bishop of the Church, Went to Brig City where he se. € had y ached the time when he Cured €Mployment In a Mercantile Could haye Tetired and spent a life firm and had his first taste of 5 lof dleness d €ase, or Could have Ness life en twent years of used his 4CCumulate Wealth to haye 4g€ he serve ad short-term Mission ecome one of the great financial] to the Eas cm States 4 d then ep POwers of Western America But £aged in Tailroad Clerical] wom for jin Placed his call to Service above S€veral years In 1877, he Was called cither of th € choices nd, at great On a mission } ngland Where he Persona] ancia] Sacrifice, he deServed for More than two Cars, It voted the Temai Was while on this mission that he be.
Rame intima € 1 Or eighteen years he served the, "auth who T called hurch as Presiding Bishop, bring. Him to the Position of p Tesidin Ing to that Office g Temarkable ef Bishop, Iclency, He *COlganized the thing Returning from this Ission he System of Church, Calling for rommenced a Career in the field ayments in Cash rather than com.
Business lS TIS€ to fame d forOdities, j Keeping with the Chang. "ne during the thirty yeats ing conomic Condition.
Aaronic was the result of his Tugged con.
Priesthoog and ward teaching work stitution, his uncanny sense Of see.
More fully Organized to TOIng °PPOrtunities for velopment ld€ greater S€Ivice to th Unseen by her me | ar © members _ OF the Church and for th and long. He engaged in the lumber; Participated jn these ACtiIVities Great and er ctficiency Was inOperTOduced throughout the entire f. N that area, developed ancia] Mnistration Of the © Deet sug Indus "Y ln Eastern Church, He Worked hand In hand Tegon and stern Ida > and with President Joseph F mith jn Was one of OVINE spirits ho this 'gard, and it as during his fathered the colon; ation of the ad 'Mstration that he Churc} Tand e ley in Oregon ame to be financially Independent. And the Steat Payette Valley in IdaUng these years he traveled ho, gteat dea] throughout the United Elder Nibley, with his Multitud}- States, to Europe, and to awali 70Us business Interests never forwith President Smith, No man, 80t the hu Or its MEssage Of save the Tesident of the Church Testoration that hag b Tésponhad greater understanding Of the sible for bringing his Patents to MANY activities Of the Church than mMerica, He Was alway active in did Bis Op Nibley, either Sy day Schoo] or Priesthood lthough "eventysix years of age Work and) in *9°1 when the Unio When called to be Stake Was Organized lm Oregon, }; Pre LESSON DEPARTMENT body and mind, possessed of a powerful testimony of the restored gospel, and respected by a multitude of people in many parts of America. To the Presidency he also brought Nibley likewise fostered the acquisition of some of the historic landmarks connected with the early history of the Church in New England and New York. Joshua Reuben Clark, Jr. December 11, 1931, President Nibley died and, in his place, Presjdent Grant chose Elder Joshua Reuben Clark, Jt. At the time of his selection to this office, President Clark was not too well-known to the membership of the Church. For thirty years he had lived away from Utah, most of the time residing in New York, Washington, D. C., and Mexico.
While not too well-known in his native Utah, few members farm. He knew what hard Physical labor was, as he did farm work and In 1898, he was graduated Utah, hayNg majored in scientific work. For five years he taught school or 4s principal in Heber City, Cedar City, and Salt Lake City. His "ver-€ager mind searched for greater fields of activity and the Study of law appealed to him.
Although he was thirty-two years of age, was marned, and had two children, with nothing of this world's goods except $300, he moved to New York with his family and entered the Jaw school of Columbia University. His professors recognized in him at once 4 man of unusual gifts, He Possessed One of the most brilliant minds and greatest capacities for difficult work that they had ever seen. As a consehe found employment as international Jaw and Government jn settling foreign claims and untangling knotty international Problems. At the State as_ the International Conference and problems Connected with the Versailles Treaty, about which he had become one of the foremost authorities, Various published books were compiled, edited, or written by President Clark deal- 

858  ing with problems of international law. He was assigned to work on problems dealing with Latin-American matters and became so _ proficient in this field that Ambassador Dwight W.
Morrow took him to Mexico as his legal advisor during a time of great stress in regard to United States interests in Mexico. On Brother Clark's return, he was appointed Under Secretary of State by President Coolidge. So ably had he worked and won the confidence and respect of the Mexican officials when he was aiding Ambassador Morrow that, when Ambassador Morrow resigned his post after election to the United States Senate in 1930, President Clark was appointed ambassador in his stead. It was from this post of honor and respect that President Grant called him to be his second counselor in April oe During the years that President Clark had resided away from Utah not only had he studied international law, but he had studied the scriptures and the gospel. His sermons are models of eloquence and contain spiritual messages of great worth. He has the unusual ability to state in a few words the vital part of his message. He speaks with great conviction and his sermons and admonitions are the summary of serious thinking about the Church and world problems.
Many of his sermons are prophetic in nature, and some, such as his tribute to the pioneers (Io Them of the Last Wagon, which is the classic description of this great migration of the Latterday Saints,) are poetic in form. His radio addresses and writings on the New Testament message are_brilliant studies reflecting his profound scholarship. One of President Clark's greatest characteristics is his uncompromising honesty. The statement, "face the facts," is one of his oftrepeated phrases. He does just that himself, whether he is dealing with a problem of law, a problem of the Church, a problem of scripture, or a problem of life. To President Grant's administration he brought these great gifts of understanding, faith in the restored gospel, a strong robust physique, and a discriminating intellect. He was devoted to President Grant and did all he could to assist the President during his declining years. David Oman McKay On September 23, 1934, President Anthony W. Ivins, eighty-two years of age, passed from mortality. J. Reuben Clark, Jr., was then advanced to the position of first counselor, and the council of the First Presidency was completed with the appointment of David O. McKay. Elder McKay had been a member of the Council of the Twelve since 1906, and was well known throughout the length and breadth of the Church. The McKay home was at Huntsville, Utah, and here David was born on September 8, 1873. He learned the nature and value of physical toil on the farm and it impressed him so that to this day he and his brothers and sisters possess ownership of the old farm home, and take a deep interest in its many functions. President McKay is a great lover of horses, and his greatest delight is to get back to the farm and to his the Holy Land, circumnavigating the globe, and traveling g distance 62,500 miles, During this trip, on January g, 1921, he dedicated the land of China for the Preaching of e 5
Guide Us, 0
Thou Great Jehovah | over which he Presided. As a memPraise to the Lord ber of the F Itst Presidency, Presiret of eee ae 7 dent McKa bly assisted President orship the Kin Tant to the en Of his life, and has ighty me ~~ been an Ispiration to all those with Now "Titan We Alt Ot ne as whom he 4ssociates, tft Thine Eyes DAYNES Music CO., 47
South Main 1. What would MOtivate a ™an to sacr Salt Lake City 1, Uta fice Worldly wealth and the Possibility Please seng Postpaid: of untold financia] Power, as President G Choir Album MM861 @ ape — Nibley did when called to be Presidin ML2077" @t00"e, on Nong Playing "a Bishop, and later a member of the In Utah, add 2% tax to above prices. First Presidency? Ee 2. Enumerate some of the outstandin ualities of character Ossessed h Sop ae Bren dene os Clark is y SITY and STATE - 3- Read one of President Clark's recent FIRST Of ALL — RevaBrpry conference setmons and Present a sum -D mary of its vita] Message 45.47 SOurH 4 LESSON DEPARTMENT 86] Tesidency are, to Joanna said, "That Was the hard. Maintain such tine of, 18
Manifested est thing I eye, did," In the administratior, of the Church? "J canna?" References She Teached blindly in her bag Jenson, An drew, Ls Biographicat for a handkerc lef. "T haven'; been Encyclopedia SO Wonderful] "7 Ht you only knew provement Era, 33480, 481, 35: For long time I got completely ff 131, 132, 389-391; 36:416-417. 367643. Tne Taek ) went around thinkin 646. I was doing everything by myself ee ee It's §00d, not to be lost." a know," Kent Said. He looked Joanna 4Dout him. "Multitudes multj- (Continued from ) tudes Mm the Val 'Y Of Decision -, face, "Dye thought abo t you day Joanna It would 4maze you to know and night for months, | _ "specially how many people are In hat Valley, "nce T saw David I wanted to see Nght now, "So ething eaching out you tel] you how wonderfy] to all of us, making US Wonder and you are, and how rig and think, and ye Ist look at yo and be glad that Kent ™ 80 glad you are you ate the kind of Person you are" home. - "Kent, you're sO wrong." May Stay? Always? € took her and looked Alwa Own on it. « Wish ng _ - (The End) Pm glad you haven't seen the chij- ™, ~~. Dren T've 'seen *- + the lost ang the i lonely and the terrified, I'm glad you haven't had to know the man women J'ye Met an TI saw half-staryeg youngster, | thought of y the first day J ou and met you, the Way your * lichen shone and the Sweet smel] COMMERC | A, of bread, baking. | Was selfish and AND EDITION Without howledge hen J ent PRINTERS AND away, | Ought you Should have BOOK BINDERS dropped Cverything ° come with PAPER RULING me. But ve Met so Many girls Penny's "+ and I guess ly gotten doy on my knees more than once ] N simple Slatitude thay I knew someone like you." c=. 862 some environmen Slonary ganization, You will Teceiy business training unde Structo ut y ° advantages Offered you, You can study Gnd learn in q WholeAll Missionaries will Enjoy the friend. I d Ship an Wtivities oF the returned misJUST » Métiey Order Enclosed ' Check Enclosed Send Co. Dn. Ae) Mormon Hymn COLUMBIA's REC Of the e"' and "Guide Us, O Thou 9MAIL THIS COUPON Name "Sete ee "adage State __ "=a ZA USIC N—4-65) 8 RIVED ORDING = ~G@. "Be Ba CO. Have Pudding bobbing In its ba _roduce a song, low-pitched and sweet; ere peace on carth, good wil] to men In heavenly Paeans rise.
Cross the hills of Galilee, Tankincense and gold, So I would hang the holly high? Srom Near and Sar May the Lord bless you and your wonderful Magazine which had much to do with my joining the Church. —Mrs. Betty Butler, Redding, California It is gratifying to know that wherever one goes in this vast universe The Relief Society Magazine can be yours for just a subscription. On this beautiful island of Guam there is a very active group of Latter-day Saints. It was a pleasant surprise to find several women in the group, which led to a desire for Relief Society work.
While the men attend Priesthood meetings the women enjoy the fullness of the splendid Relief Society lessons.
Indeed we feel blessed, although so far away, and yet so near, through the pages of the Magazine. —Rea Jorgensen, Guam, Mariana Islands Please find enclosed a check for the subscription price of the Magazine. I don't want to miss a single issue. I especially enjoy the poetry, which is, I think, of a very high class. I also like the lesson material and wish every member would read the lessons before going to class. —Amy F. Armstrong, Phoenix, Arizona I enjoy the Magazine very much and don't want to miss a single copy. I am a convert from Hayward, Wisconsin. I was baptized July 21, 1945, and moved to Nephi, April 24, 1946. I enjoy the West very much. My mother is secretary of a little branch in Hayward. 'They have mostly Indian members. —Doris A. Hanson, Nephi, Utah The Relief Society Magazine is very sad.
Many times I have come home from work and found my wife weeping after having read the Magazine. I couldn't believe it was that sad until I read it myself from cover to cover, and then I started to cry. The poetry is especially somber. Doesn't anyone know anything funny to write about? —A Bishop, Salt Lake City, Utah  It seems to me that I should apprise you of the delight we have received from the series of articles on 'Table Decorations (by Mary Grant Judd, Apnl to December, 1949) appearing currently in The Relief Society Magazine.
What you did with vegetables is incredible! 'These writings have shown a fine resourcefulness and originality. Sister Glade, my daughters, and I, have certainly appreciated them. —Mayor Earl J. Glade, Salt Lake City, Utah Most non-Latter-day Saint people with whom I visited were very friendly regarding Relief Society work. At one place I hesitated to enter the home because I knew the husband was there (his car was outside). He was a man owning a number of herds of sheep, ranging them both here and in Arizona. But I offered a prayer in secret and knocked on the door. I was met in a friendly way and, without hesitation, presented my message and handed him and his wife copies of the Magazine to look through. The husband exclaimed: "The Relief Society! Oh, yes, that's an organization which does a lot of good. Yes, we want to subscribe to the Magazine." He told me that he liked to read so well that he would spend all his spare time reading if his eyes would let him.
Some months later this man passed away, and it has been a pleasant memory for me in connection with his passing that the last words I heard him speak were these regarding the Magazine. —N. Florence Hanny, Firth, Idaho The Relief Society Magazine is a source of enjoyment and its reading is indeed grand. I do look forward to it. The lessons are just wonderful, especially the last couple of years until we had our branch organized, for it helped to keep me in touch with the Church and learn of its teachings. The missionaries are also enjoying its contents when they come to visit me. 'Thank you ever so much. —Mrs. William Manley, Plymouth, England PLENTIFUL NOW— Jesus, The Christ By JAMES E. TALMAGE Textbook for the study of the Life of Christ oS de The Life of Christ In Pictures: —four sets of beautiful, large, 18" x 22" colored pictures— SET I—The birth, early life and ministry, including seven miracles.