[Joy in Service by Counselor Marianne C. Sharp]

Service by Those Assisted We urge a continuation of your efforts to have the sisters visited by 
Relief Society presidents under the direction of their bishops, contribute service to the Welfare Program, and do their own sewing wherever possible. In assigning the 1950 clothing budget the general committee ls recommending that only a portion of it be made up into articles of clothing, and that the remainder be held in yardage in the storehouse for distribution on bishop's orders to families who may be able or who can be taught to do their own sewing. Fund-Raising Activities Reports show the society, as a whole, to be in good condition with respect to finances.
Funds appear to have been raised judiciously and expended wisely. F und-raising activities have been, in general, in keeping with the standards and dignity of Relief Society, and they have, in large measure, been the out growth of the regular Relief Society program, or a reflection of it.
This the general board fully endorses and would encourage. Relief Society Not a Selling Agent We are aware that you are occasionally approached by commercial institutions or by individuals for the purpose of having you sell their product on a commission basis.
Such an undertaking should be weighed carefully and the counsel of the Priesthood should be sought.
Care must be exercised to make sure that Relief Society does not become a selling agent, and that people are not solicited in the name of the society to the point where the society becomes subject to criticism.
Purchase of Sewing Machines The general board members, in RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE visiting your stakes, report that a number of local societies do not have sewing machines. I can scarcely imagine a society of any considerable size being without a sewing machine. We, therefore, suggest that where it is at all feasible that the sisters work toward the purchase of at least one that will meet the ordinary requirements of the society. Ward Versus Stake Functions We note a growing tendency for stake boards to bring the wards together for functions that could more appropriately be conducted in the individual wards. As a_ general tule it is more convenient for the members, more women participate, fuller interest is felt, and greater benefits accrue to the sisters and to the society when functions are conducted in the individual wards.
Support of Magazine We wish to thank you from the bottom of our hearts for your loyal support of the Magazine. We urge stake Relief Society presidents to support the Magazine by calling it to the attention of stake and ward officers from time to time in the preliminary session of the union meeting. It is suggested that ward presidents allow five minutes once a month to call the Magazine to the attention of the members in a regular meeting of the society. Indian Relations Program I wish to again remind you that responsibility for the Indian relations program rests with the stake Indian relations committee, with the stake presidency at its head. Relief Society works in harmony with 809 this committee and has representation on it.
Appoint as a member of the stake board a chairman of Indian relations as well as the committee members recommended in our recent letter to you when the need for such workers arises.
Include in the annual narrative report a brief statement of the activity. We would also appreciate receiving a letter from you occasionally regarding the program. Handbook Available I am sure we are all happy that the Handbook is now available. With A Centenary of Relief Society also in your hands to acquaint you with the history of the society for its first hundred years, you have two valuable aids in the conduct of your work. Relief Society Building We again express Our most sincere thanks for your wonderful response to the Relief Society Building fund-raising program. We were hopeful, as was the First Presidency, that we could announce at this conference, the building site. We are assured by the First Presidency that they are moving as rapidly as they can in this situation.
Just as soon as we receive definite word from them you will be advised.
Lists of Contributors The lists of contributors were painstakingly and beautifully prepared. We thank you for the excellence of your work in this matter. Vase Received From the Swiss-Austrian Mission The general board recently received from the Swiss-Austrian Mission an exquisite Meissen ware vase 810 as a gift for the new Relief Society Building. It is very rare and beautiful. We all thank this mission for this choice gift which will have a prominent place in the new building where all of you may see it. Sisters, we love you for what you are and for the good you do. President Clark has told us: "The Relief Society is the handmaid to the 
Priesthood of God in carrying on his work for the salvation of men.
This is the key to every task you undertake, it unlocks the door to your every duty, it opens the gate to all your activities." Let us always remember this admonition of President Clark. May God bless you in the important work to which you have been called, I sincerely pray.