New General Board
THE reorganization of the Relief Society General Board, effective January 1, 1940, was announced in the January issue of the Magazine. Biographical sketches of President Amy Brown Lyman, First Counselor Marcia K. Howells, Second Counselor Donna D. Sorensen and Secretary-Treasurer Vera White Pohlman were published in that issue. The Magazine is now pleased to announce the new General Board members: Belle S. Spafford, Vivian R. McConkie, Leda T. Jensen, Beatrice F. Stevens, Rae B. Barker, Nellie O. Parker, Anna S. Barlow, Achsa E. Paxman, Mary G. Judd, Luella N. Adams, Marianne C. Sharp, Anna B. Hart, Ethel B. Andrew, Gertrude R. Garff, Leona B. Fetzer, Edith S. Elliott. The first seven named were members of the former Board and are already known to Relief Society members through their visits to the stakes, their activities at Relief Society General Conferences, and through the pages of the Magazine. Biographical sketches were published as follows: Belle S. Spafford, June, 1935; Vivian R. McConkie, Leda T. Jensen, Beatrice F. Stevens and Rae B. Barker, April, 1937; Nellie O. Parker, May, 1937; Anna S. Barlow, August, 1938. Short biographical sketches of the newly appointed Board members are published in this issue of the Magazine in order that our readers may become acquainted with them. These women have been called through the Priesthood to positions of leadership in the Organization. They are imbued with the spirit of the Gospel and are willing to work for the improvement of the women of the Church and the advancement of the work of the Master. We are confident that the loyal support and splendid cooperation given the General Board in the past by Relief Society officers and members will be extended to the new Board. Relief Society is a great organization. It has been given an important assignment. Success is not dependent upon the General Board alone nor upon any one group within the organization but upon the united, systematic, devoted service of all. With each fully magnifying her own calling and all working in harmony, loving and supporting one another, Relief Society should know a glorious and successful future.