MUSIC DEPARTMENT
The Projection of Emotion to the Chorus By Wade N. Stephens of the Tabernacle Organ Staff
THE last three articles have been devoted to the effect upon interpretation of the emotional content of words and music. Any conductor who has followed instructions carefully should now be able to work out a detailed scheme of tempos and dynamics that will in performance awaken in a listener the emotions intended to be conveyed by the composition. It now becomes the problem to convey this interpretation to the chorus in such a definite manner that each member understands the conductor's wishes and feels compelled to sing in accordance with them. This may be done in many ways. Some conductors teach their interpretation so thoroughly that the piece could be performed almost as well without a conductor. Others change their interpretation so often that the chorus, not knowing what to expect, must rely on the conductor's indications at the time of performance. Possibly it is best to combine these methods so that the chorus knows the music and the general interpretation but must watch the conductor carefully for timing, detailed shading, and inspiration. The mood is conveyed to the chorus by means of conducting technique described in early articles of this series. Tempo and changes therein are shown by speed and size of the beat, aided. Occasionally by the left hand. Loudness and softness are indicated by judicious use of the left hand, coupled with variations in the size of baton movements. A supporting motion of the left hand will prevent a chorus from breathing at the wrong time, and a gasp will make everyone breathe together. Great tension in the hands and arms will intensify whatever is being indicated, whether it is softness, loudness or change of speed. Mouthing the words will sometimes keep the chorus together better than anything else, but it is unwise to sing while conducting. These techniques, no matter how perfect, are not enough. The conductor must convey to the chorus the emotion itself. This is done by means of facial expressions and attitudes of the body.. These cannot be called up artificially, as a part of the conductor's technique ? they must be genuine results of an emotional experience. The conductor must think about the emotion to be expressed so strongly as actually to feel it personally. This results automatically in appropriate expressions, which convey the conductor's desires to the chorus far better than words. It is not well to talk much in rehearsal. Things seen are remembered better than things heard, so it is more effective to conduct than to talk. The conductor's chief function is to inspire a chorus to sing well. All the rehearsals are in vain unless the performance is better than any of them. This is what makes a great conductor?the ability to inspire the singers to do better in performance than they have ever done in rehearsal.