Appreciation from the Three Leading Women of the Church
=======================================================

Appreciation from the Three Leading Women of the Church 14 Vision of the Redemption of the Dead 16 General John J. Pershing Mary Foster Gibbs 22 To the Departed Year 1918 Mrs. Parley Nelson 23 Lines to a Tree in Winter 24 Heart of the Household Ruth Moench Bell 25 Conservation Cook Book 32 Our Indian Cousins C. L. Christensen 33 Humility Emily Hill Woodmansee 37 The Home Coming L. Lula Greene Richards 39 Construction and Reconstruction in the Home....Janette A. Hyde 40 Official Round Table....Clarissa S. Williams, Amy Brown Lyman 40 On the Watch Tower James H. Anderson 45 Editorial 49 Guide Lessons 52 ADVERTISERS' DIRECTORY. Patronize those who patronize us AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE OF UTAH, Logan. AMUNDSEN STUDIO, 249 Main St., Salt Lake City. AUERBACH CO., Salt Lake City. BAILEY & SONS CO., Salt Lake City. BRUNSWICK-BALKE-COLLENDER CO., Billiard Tables, 55-59 W. South Temple St., Salt Lake City. DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO. 61-3-5 Main St., Salt Lake City. DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE, Books and Stationery, Salt Lake City. EARDLEY BROS. CO., Everything for Electricity, Salt Lake City. GREENHALGH REMEDY CO., Salt Lake City. JENSENS, JEWELERS, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City. KEISTER LADIES' TAILORING COLLEGE, 291 Center St., Salt Lake City MODEL KNITTING WORKS, 657 Iverson St., Salt Lake City. PEMBROKE COMPANY, 22-24 East Broadway, Salt Lake City. ROYAL BAKING CO., Salt Lake City. STAR LAUNDRY, 902 Jefferson St., Salt Lake City. SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION BOOK STORE, 44 East South Temple St., Salt Lake City. TAYLOR, S. M. & CO., Undertakers, 251-257 East First South Salt Lake City. UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK, Salt Lake City. Z. C. M. I., Salt Lake City. AUERBACH CO. SALT LAKE'S BEST DEPARTMENT STORE Do Your Christmas Shopping Early at "The Big Store" We can save you money on every item purchased here 2000 Gospel Quotations By Henry H. Rolapp We have orders from all directions for this valuable Book of Reference. The Elders in the mission field hail it as a work that they have long looked for. Members of Quorums and students of the Gospel generally find it the most complete work of its kind issued to date. Handsomely bound in cloth, $1.25 postpaid. DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE 6 Main St., Salt Lake City UNCLE SAM asks that we conserve in our Xmas giving. An ideal and lasting gift, and one that is always appreciated is A GOOD BOOK SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION BOOK STORE The Book Store of Salt Lake City 44 East South Temple Street REMEMBER YOUR PLEDGE — BUY— U.S. WAR SAVINGS STAMPS On Sale at any Bank or Post Office THE UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK SALT LAKE CITY The Utah State National Bank features quick and efficient service. One feature is the Unit System, which greatly simplifies transactions. Officers: Heber J. Grant, President Henry T. McEwan, Cashier George H. Butler, Asst. Cashier Established 1860 Incorporated 1908 S. M. TAYLOR & Co. Undertakers and Embalmers Successors to Joseph E. Taylor The Pioneer Undertaker of the West Fifty-three years in one location — 251-257 East First South Street SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Efficient Service, Modern Methods Complete Equipment SEND Xmas Cards early to your Soldiers at home and abroad. You will find an excellent and complete stock at The Pembroke Company 22-24 East Broadway Salt Lake City My Friend, Maud Ellen Baggarley A Tribute By Grace Ingles Frost. She has passed beyond. Comparatively youthful in years, she has yet entered into her rest as does the sheaf of wheat which is fully ripe. Her life was given to the Master's service and her works live and will live in the hearts of all who knew her personally, as a beautiful memorial of her divine spirit, gifts and education. Though so richly endowed, she was always modest and even retiring in her manner. Few persons knew the full capabilities of her wonderful mind. Some there were whom she admitted to the sacred precincts of her soul, and they recognized in her a great and sublime spirit. Hers was a spirit of meekness, charity, love and perfect truth. When affliction walked in the guise of illness she ministered with a gentle hand, and in the time of death she was ever present to offer sympathy and cheerfully perform any task, it mattered not how menial. To the poor and needy she ministered, giving herself with the gift, and letting not her left hand know what the right dispensed. Many there are who call her name blessed who were strangers within our gates. Dissimulation had no place in her character. The clasp of her hand assured one at once of her integrity. She never pretended what she did not feel. She was a friend in all respects to her friends. Unto those whom she felt called upon to rebuke, her words came firm and forceful, but devoid of malice. In defense of the Gospel her words went forth as keen as a two-edged sword, for she had laid her all upon its altar. Israel has cause to mourn the loss of Sister Baggarley. Many will watch for her cheery smile and will grieve because they see it no more. Much more might be said concerning this our gifted sister whom the Father has called home, much more by me, for I knew her as probably no other person, and my heart is empty, woefully empty now that she has passed beyond. Oh! Maudie, my friend and sister! You taught me what the gift of friendship meant In its most perfect sense. And your bright smile and beauteous spirit lent A wondrous strength and armor of defense Against my weaker self from day to day. President Joseph Fielding Smith Born 13 November, 1838. Died 19 November, 1918. THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Vol VI. JANUARY, 1919. No. 1 In Memoriam: President Joseph F. Smith. The Church and the world have bidden a temporary farewell to the kingly spirit of President Joseph F. Smith. He passed beyond Nov. 19, 1918. Born in extreme privation and exile, November 13, 1838, at Far West, Caldwell county, Missouri, while his father was in prison with the Prophet Joseph, and his mother's bed was protected from the pouring rain by vessels held up under the mud roof, he experienced trouble enough to begin with. As he grew, however, his sturdy frame and powerful constitution thrived in the midst of mobbings and drivings, while his spirit took on added force, and only reacted the more generously to trouble and sorrow in others because of his early privations. His mother, Mary Fielding Smith, was his ideal and his guiding star all his life. Her courage and loyalty to the truth, her gracious courtesy and sympathetic tenderness, softened his natural stern and rigorous temperament. With what vividness he recalled his mother's historic crossing of the plains in 1848, under the most trying and forbidding circumstances! With what faithful reverence did he enshrine her memory! [THIS IS FIGURE: Photo labeled "Pres. Smith in 1876."] RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. He recalled with circumstantiality his brief childish experiences in Nauvoo, when he was intimately and lovingly associated with his father and his adored uncle, the Prophet Joseph Smith. He drove one of his mother's ox teams across the plains and entered with her into this valley September 23, 1848. Plowing, harvesting and wood-chopping hardened his muscles and taught him resourcefulness and initiative. From herdboy to farmer, he graduated into the university of mission life, spending many years at that, returning to take his spiritual post-graduate preparation in the Historian's Office under the liberal education and tutelage of his "uncle," President George A. Smith, for years the Church Historian and Counselor to President Brigham Young. He was an active participant in the labors of the Endowment House, during his early manhood. He filled three missions on the Sandwich Islands, his first undertaken when he was fifteen years of age, and paid several visits there at various periods, early acquiring the most perfect control of the Hawaiian tongue vouchsafed to any Utah missionary, and winning the ardent and constant devotion of those dusky natives, such as no man had ever done before or has ever done since. Two missions to Great Britain, in the second of which he was president of the European Mission, taught him, among many other things, life's balance between man-made churches and divinely revealed religion. Not only did he serve his Church assiduously, but he was an active member of the Salt Lake municipal council for several terms and urged the dedication of Liberty Park to the city, and later Pioneer Square was also purchased through his efforts. He served in the legislative assembly, and during a portion of the time, he acted as the president of that body. He also was president of the constitutional convention held in 1882. He served in every capacity in his own Church, from a deacon to the President of the Church, and was counselor to the First Presidency in the administration of both President Wood- [THIS IS FIGURE: Photo labeled "Pres. Smith in 1884"] IN MEMORIAM. 5 ruff and President Snow. The years of his own administration were most fruitful in constructive measures. School buildings and churches, both at home and abroad, were built under his policy. Land was purchased, meeting houses bought or built, not only in all our intermountain states and Utah, but also in Chicago, the Eastern States, Southern States, California, Sandwich Islands, Europe and Mexico. He chose the sites and dedicated them for the erection of the temples in Cardston, Canada and in Laie, Sandwich Islands. He was a patron of the arts and sciences and was devoted to the cause of education for the young. Home industry claimed his deep allegiance. He rigidly sustained all forms of home industry, and encouraged home manufacture in every sense of the word. Among other public utilities which he fostered are our great heating plant and lighting system, the street car service and the splendid gymnasium, built for both Church schools in this city and for those in other parts of the Church. His wise, conservative financial policy was demonstrated in the successful banks, stores and institutions of which he was the head. He was a foe to debt and obligations of all kinds. Among the activities of his administration the Hotel Utah will be a monument to his liberal views; the beautiful Church office building, unsurpassed for design and construction in the west; the L. D. S. Hospital, and other public structures, all testify to his constructive powers. President Smith was by nature a happy mixture of progressivism and conservatism. His great reverence for authority and precedent made him an ideal leader and state builder. His wives, Julina Lambson, Sarah Richards, Edna Lambson, Alice Kimball and Mary Schwartz, are well known women in this community. Each is a queen in her own right. They have been and are as faithful and fond wives, as true and wise mothers as ever lived upon the earth. Each has borne a galaxy of children. Much and deserved credit is accorded to President Smith for the remarkable family of children which he honored by his fatherhood, but at the same time it must be said that the five noble and high-principled "mothers of his children" — as he loved to call them — deserve and should receive equal share in the credit for the beneficent training and careful nurture given to their families. President Smith himself would be loath to see this article appear in the leading women's Magazine, in the Church, without due affectionate notice given to the women who have helped to mold his own character and that of his children. 6 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. THE WOMEN WHO MOST INFLUENCED PRES. SMITH'S LIFE. His mother is little known in our historical annals — chiefly because of her retiring dignity which enveloped her personal character with a delicate veil of reserve. She it was, however, who started the Penny Subscription Fund, in Nauvoo, prior to the organization of this Society; and she, of all the women belonging to the families of the Prophet and Patriarch, remained faithful to the body of the Church, coming out to Utah with the early pioneers. Her untimely death, in 1852, left her motherless children to mature with the inspiring memory of her rigid domestic virtues and her loyalty to truth. Mrs. Julina L. Smith, who has acted for years as the Second Counselor in our Relief Society presidency, is amply qualified by her own native housewifely and social abilities, her broad sympathy and just understanding of the sacred principle of celestial marriage, to stand at the head of her great husband's kingdom. She said when looking into the coffin of her adored husband, "I am grateful beyond my power to express that 'papa' has 'Aunt Sarah' 'over there' to comfort and take care of him now." What tribute could be greater to two noble women, the living wife and the dead! The devotion of the members of this Relief Society and of the women everywhere in the Church to this sweet-natured, fond wife, faithful mother and loyal friend, has deeper sources than mere human limitations. For we perceive on reflection what her unassuming, modest worth means to womanhood and to humanity by a careful guess as to what an opposite influence would have meant in her husband's family and in this Church itself. The sisters love her because she loves us, and always has been so ready to serve and help in any place or time. She is indeed a saint. She is the mother of President Smith's noble representative sons, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., Bishop David A. Smith, George and Wesley Smith, while her handsome and faithful daughters are worthy of their high parentage. Her children are her best testimonial. [THIS IS FIGURE: Photo labeled "Pres. Smith in 1891"] Mrs. Sarah Richards Smith, daughter of President Willard PRESIDENT AND MRS. JULINA L. SMITH On their Golden Wedding Day, May 5, 1916. 8 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Richards, now dead, was beautiful, courteous and extremely intelligent. All her life was guided by high principle, and no mean or ignoble word or act marred the gentle standard of her fine character. She bore a family of refined, noble sons and daughters. Her son Richards, the President's oldest son, is a man, just and righteous. He lives religion rather than preaches theology. His tender respect and reverence for his father's wives and children — each and all — is an ensample to all Israel. "Nonie," Sarah's oldest daughter, now dead, was always referred to by her father as the living representative of his own adored mother. Sarah's second son, Willard, is as fine and true a man as can be found in all Israel. Sarah died March 22, 1915, leaving a whole family in tears and deep mourning at her departure. Mrs. Edna L. Smith presides over the sisters in the Salt Lake Temple. She is like a lightning flash, instant in speech, strenuous in activity, yet she is an ardent lover of deep spiritual truths. Her diversion is reading the Scriptures, and she tolerates no departures from the rigid code of morals and conduct which guides her own activities. The sister workers in the Temple who know her best give quick and willing service under her swift, directing hand, and love her for the sterling virtues which buttress her character with unyielding fortitude and strength. In return, she mothers them all, jealously guarding their rights and privileges, allowing no one to attack or decry her treasured band. She has suffered many blows from destiny's hammer during the recent past — the death of her prized daughter, Zina; then her eloquent and promising son, Apostle Hyrum M.; then his wife, Mrs. Ida Bowman Smith, and now her husband has gone, and she is left. But the first opportunity which offered she gave faithful greetings to President Heber J. Grant with the characteristic remark, "This is the Church of the Christ, not of my husband or of any other man. You are His chosen representative on earth, President Grant, and you have my faith and prayers." Mrs. Alice Kimball Smith, daughter of a prophet, wife of a prophet, is a lovely, sensitive, highly spiritualized character. Devoted to her home and its constant needs, she has yet found time and strength to act as General Treasurer of the Y. L. M. I. A. for years. She has traveled much, and everywhere has lifted her eloquent and appealing voice in warning hope, and sure testimony, of the Gospel. She inherits her father's keen, incisive humor, his dignity, and many of his seeric gifts. She is a most devoted wife and fond mother, giving her wealth of passionate service without personal regard, or at times without self-protection. In recent years she has been sorely afflicted. Nothing mortal would daunt her courage or still her vivid testimony. Her husband and children are her fortress, and he who would attack or even ignore her rights must reckon with sharp and Top row: Julina L. Smith, Sarah R. Smith Center: Mary Fielding Smith. Lower row: Edna L. Smith, Alice K. Smith, Mary S. Smith 10 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. vigorous counterattack; disloyalty to her family would merit eternal severance of friendly ties and affections. Practically her whole family were prostrated with the influenza plague at the time of her husband's passing, and but for the kindly ministrations of her friend, Mrs. Zina Y. Card, sad indeed might have been the results. As it was, the wife was not present at the deathbed, but came, stricken and pallid, upheld by her indomitable courage and will to attend the obsequies. Mrs. Mary Schwartz Smith, niece of President John Taylor and mother of five stalwart and exemplary boys, was a beautiful bride, and has proved a loyal and devoted wife. She has bequeathed to her children the quick intelligence, the love of literary and educational pursuits, which she, too, inherited from superior ancestry. She has not disdained, however, to take up a farm and to lead her sons by precept and example to love Mother Earth in all her changing bestowals. Homely toil has dignified their ideals, solidified their natural gifts, and today her family testify in their response to our country's need, in their fine and scholarly promise, to the value of her teachings and example. TRIBUTE FROM PRESIDENT SMITH'S CLOSEST FRIEND, BISHOP CHARLES W. NIBLEY. The words of Bishop Charles W. Nibley, spoken at the funeral services over the grave of the President, express eloquently the feelings and views of the people concerning President Smith: "Surely it is a great honor to be asked to say a few words at the grave of our dear President, one whom we all loved so much. Difficult though the task may be, yet I feel that I should make the effort, for a few moments, and if I can master my feelings, say what I can in respect to him. "I have known President Smith most intimately for more than forty years. I have traveled more with him and have been his companion more than any one in the world outside of the members of his immediate family, so that I know him better, perhaps, than any man living. I can testify to you that here lies the body of a great man, a good man, a virtuous, clean man — clean as any man, or woman either, who ever walked the earth. At this separation, this parting, my heart has been saddened beyond anything that has ever come to me; but I think of the great rejoicing in the meeting with his father, with his uncle, the Prophet, with that precious and most blessed mother of his, with Aunt Sarah and the children, his own children — Hyrum, and Nonie and Zina and Allie and others who have gone before. What a glorious, and happy and blessed reunion there! For he loved his family. He honored the very memory and name of his mother and his father. He was great in all these qualities. He did not set him- 12 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. self up to be great; for he was so simple, so unostentatious, so gentle, loving and kind; and yet, when his spirit was roused at any indignity, at any insult, no man could or would more fiercely or more quickly resent it; but his life was gentle, and he was a man such as we seldom see. I say, from my point of view, here lies the body of the greatest man and the best man in all the world. "The Church, seventeen years ago, was greatly in debt. The work that he has done in managing its affairs, as Trustee-in-Trust, speaks for itself. The Church never was in better condition, financially, spiritually, or numerically — never was stronger than now. His was the guiding, steadying hand of it all, under the blessing and favor of the Almighty, which he, more than any one else, always and on every occasion acknowledged. How often have we heard him say, 'It is not I that is doing this, it is the Lord who is guiding and directing and blessing it all.' "It would be unwise to try to go into any extended remarks at this time and place, concerning his virtues, his greatness, the purity and blessedness of his life, in every way; but I will say this, that with all the greatness that you know of, and his goodness also, the greatest work of all is his magnificent family, this large family, the largest in all Christendom, and no better in the world. Here is the work of a man indeed! Nay, is it not more like the work of a God? For what work is there that we do in this world that is so godlike as the rearing of a family; and in this large family there is not one 'black sheep,' not one renegade, not one that is not a good citizen — clean and upright. What a magnificent, noble and splendid work for a man to do. Why, it shall live forever. It was his glory, and honor and the pride of his life; and it is the greatest work that any man can ever do. "Now, my brethren and sisters, and friends, what of the future? We could not keep him always. I am glad to know that he stayed with us as long as he did, that he was a blessing to us for so many years, giving guidance and direction to the affairs of the Church of Christ. We could not keep him always. What of the future? While we have life and health and strength given us, it is our duty to work to build up the kingdom of God. If he were to speak to us now, his voice, his instruction would be for us to sustain the administration of President Grant, as we have sustained his administration, and try to make it as splendid and glorious, and even more so, if possible, for we should progress and learn more and more as we go on in this work to make us better and accomplish more than we have ever done hitherto. This would be his word — his word of counsel and advice — to us. This was always his counsel, his instruction to stand by the kingdom of God, to sustain it, magnify it, and make it great; not to the honor of Joseph F. Smith, particularly, and yet he was the instrument in the hands of God, whom we honored, and whom IN MEMORIAM. 13 God honored, but it is not for man's honor or glory or credit that we work, but for the honor, and glory, and credit, and renown of our God and His Christ, forever. Amen." The friends of President Joseph F. Smith, whose death occurred November 19, 1918, encompass the membership of the Church, but do not stop there; men everywhere who knew him honored and revered him for his integrity, his breadth of vision, his charity, his loyalty to truth. We are fortunate in possessing in this Church so many of his deserving and promising descendants and we joy in the fact that they do have and will have increasing opportunities of service in the Church in the various organizations, and quorums of the priesthood. His first wife, Julina, is President Emmeline B. Wells' Counselor, and his daughter, Donnette Smith Kessler, is our latest General Board member. The Relief Society have every reason to mourn the present loss of President Joseph F. Smith, and to prepare themselves as members for future associations with him and his. Sentiments from the Presidency and General Board of the Relief Society. Inasmuch as it has pleased the Lord in His justice and mercy to release our dearly beloved and deeply revered President Joseph F. Smith, while our heavenly Father has taken to Himself that noble spirit, whose labors now will broaden into boundless divinity; Knowing that no one human factor in recent years has done so much to enhance the sphere and to quicken the possibilities of this organization, appreciating as he did the spirit and genius of the Relief Society work; Realizing that his spirit of grace, of justice, of keen perception of all spiritual values, and his breadth of vision, have enlarged the understanding of other men concerning the rights and liberties, the duties and responsibilities, of the Relief Society and of womanhood in this Church; Privileged as we were to witness his tender associations with his own family, his quick courtesy to womanhood, his fond and overshadowing care for little children, which has modified and mellowed all who were in any way blessed with his friendship and example; And keenly sensible, as we are, that we are deprived for a season of his counsel and help; Therefore: We, the General Board, officers and members of the Relief Society, do hereby express our love and gratitude for all he has done for this Society and for all women, and we rest in the sure hope of a renewal of happy associations in higher spheres, both as individuals and as a Society. 14 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Appreciation from the Three Leading Women of the Church. A TRIBUTE President Joseph F. Smith was to me the embodiment of greatness and goodness. I knew him from his childhood, through his youth and into his great maturity — knew him intimately and well and noted ever the strength of his character, and the onward and upward progress of his destiny. Surely no greater man has lived in this dispensation, save it were his uncle, the Prophet Joseph Smith. As I have been permitted to live through the long years, and see the many changes of the past century, I have noted not only the progress of the times, with its wonderful changes in industry, art, literature, invention and discovery, but also have I noted the advance of man, and I feel today, in thinking of the past, and the great men and women I have known, that among the leaders of the Latter-day Saints have been the purest, and brightest men and women of the age, and none of these excel our great leader who has just departed. Surely "A great man has fallen in Israel today." With all his strength and dignity President Smith was as tender as a little child. He loved children and was never happier than in their company, participating in their games or watching them at play. No one could be a more loyal friend, and to possess his friendship was truly a rich and treasured blessing. To his family he was not only a father, but a king, whom they adored with such reverence as is seldom shown to man, nor was this great fatherhood entirely confined to his immediate family, but enjoyed by the whole Church. I loved President Smith from his boyhood to the great age he attained. Through all the years he lived as true, as fine, as honest a life as befits the man destined to be a prophet, seer and revelator. His many gifts and graces endeared him to us all, and come what may, my heart will ever hold for him a lasting and enduring affection, through time and all eternity. Emmeline B. Wells, President of the General Board of the Relief Society. IN MEMORIAM. 15 HERE WAS AN HONEST MAN President Joseph F. Smith — the soul of honor, unflinching in integrity, fearless for the right, strong as a lion in defense of truth, yet humble as a little child in obeying the Will of God, patient through trial, kind and considerate of the aged and afflicted, he was indeed a noble example of true manhood. "An honest man is the noblest work of God." President Smith was worthy of the title. All honor to his memory. His life work is ended, but he will live forever in the hearts of those who knew and loved him. "His words are bonds, his oaths are oracles, his heart as far from fraud as heaven from earth." Martha Horne Tingey, President of the General Board of the Y. L. M. I. A. A GREAT FATHER LOVE All who have known President Joseph F. Smith have been impressed with the generous impulses which bestowed kindness and tempered his judgment of the weak and unfortunate. His love for his family sets him as an ideal for emulation. For all children he had the keenest and tenderest regard and interest, he could scarcely pass a little one without the bestowal of a loving touch or word. Children in his presence were always considered and respected. As a worker among children it has been my pleasure to ask advice and receive help in the conduct of the Primary associations of the Church, and it gives me great pleasure to record that every effort put forth to benefit the children met with his heartiest approval and support. At one time the General Board was impressed with the idea that the Primary associations could create a fund to be used for such unfortunate children as might need hospital and surgical assistance and which would react in ethical value to each child who voluntarily donated to such a worthy cause. The idea was taken to President Joseph F. Smith and it received the warmest sympathy, commendation and approval, and we know that he rejoiced with us when the idea became a fact, and as a result children were placed in the L. D. S. Hospital where with proper treatment they were restored to physical health. It may not be amiss to speak of a personal experience which gave me knowledge of this father-love we have all so much admired. In 1883 when my husband was away on a mission, two of the little ones in the family were afflicted with typhoid fever, 16 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. and lay apparently at the point of death. The elders in the ward came repeatedly to administer to our children, but to the great grief of the two mothers there was little reason to believe that mortal power could preserve the lives of our dear ones. One night, a very anxious one in the family, there was being held in the old Social Hall a gathering at which was present our beloved President, Joseph F. Smith. He overheard some remark about the family of Elder Joseph H. Felt being seriously ill; he knew the father was on a mission and immediately the thought came, "They have no father to help them." He called some of the brethren to him and invited them to accompany him. Leaving the party they went over a mile to give a blessing. His words of inspiration and love brought relief and joy to the anguished family, and to this day he is remembered as the instrument in the hands of the Lord in restoring to life our children. I have always been proud and grateful for my acquaintance with this noble man and that it has been my personal pleasure to know how wide and deep was the father-love that delighted to bless his own and his neighbors' children.