[WomansExponent | Vol35 | 1906 | July | Issue: 2 | Title: EDITORIAL NOTES. | Author: Unknown]

EDITORIAL NOTES.
	President Bathsheba W. Smith has ap-
pointed a committee some time since to
examine lectures that have been given by
the sisters in connection with the Moth-
ers’ work in order to have them published
in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, or to be ex-
changed in the Society, wherever wanted.
This idea is for helpfulness for each other
in the work, a sort of reciprocity. This
committee of ladies is a very competent
one, and will be conscientious in consid-
ering the manuscripts entrusted to it, and
consists of Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas, Mrs.
Rebecca E. Little, Mrs. Elizabeth L. Wil-
cox. Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas is chairman,
and those who have lectures to circulate
or to have considered with a view to
benefit others will please send the manu-
script to Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas, No. 137
N. West Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah.
	The Relief Society Nurses Class will
begin this year September 17th, and con-
tinue eight months. It will be taught at
the L. D. S. University by Dr. Margaret
C. Roberts. There will also be a course
of lectures on practical cooking; mem-
bers of the nurse class will be allowed to
attend the lectures given at the L. D. S.
University on theology, hygiene and do-
mestic science, Charges for tuition, $10,
always in advance. Anyone desiring to
take the course and not wishing to sign
the contract for seventy-five days charity
work may do so on payment of $50
tuition fee. For further information ap-
ply to Phebe Y. Beatie, 55 N. West Tem-
ple, or Dr. M. C. Roberts, 79 C. Street,
Salt Lake City. Circulars with full in-
formation are already issued to all Presi-
dents of the Relief Society. 
	The reception given by the Directors of
Calder’s Park to the First Presidency of
the Church on Friday, July 13th, and
which included Dr. James T. Hughes of
Toronto, Canada, the famous educator,
was indeed a “red letter day” for all
those who were honored with an invita-
tion on that happy occasion: The guests
felt themselves highly honored by the
feast at table, as well as the fine exercises
of music and song, and the graceful and
appropriate speeches from the platform
in the dancing hall. The day was perfect,
and when the tables were spread under
the beautiful trees in the park the real
feast began, for in addition to conversa-
tion there were some of the most de-

[Column 2]

lightful short talks, and a response from
the brilliant Dr. Hughes, such as one sel-
dom hears from strangers sojourning
among us, even when partaking of our
hospitality and the freedom of our beauti-
ful city. Dr. Hughes had listened atten-
tatively to President Joseph F. Smith,
who spoke from the platform in the af-
ternoon in his strong and forceful way of
our mountain home, and its settlement
and his crossing the plains in his boyhood
days, and the Dr. must have been deeply
touched by the ingenuousness of soul
that characterized the pathetic reminis-
censes. Apostle O. F. Whitney gave a 
little impromptu talk in his most genial
style on education in the early days, and 
altogether Dr. Hughes must have been
strongly impressed with the earnestness
and devotion of those with whom he
came in contact. The evening was
charming, the sunset on the water, its re-
flection on the lake and mountains be-
yond, the moonlight afterwards, and the
launches and skiffs, with the men and
women, young and old, who mingled in
the pleasures, the well kept grounds af-
forded, formed a delightful part of the
program of the day.


[Column 1]
