[WomansExponent | Vol35 | 1906 | July | Issue: 2 | Title: WEBER STAKE. | Author: Unknown]

WEBER STAKE.

	Minutes of the Quarterly Conference of
the Relief Society of the Weber Stake of
Zion. held at Relief Society Hall in
Ogden City, Utah, on Thursday, June 14,
1906. Conference convened at ten
o’clock a. m., president Jane S. Richards
presiding. Singing “Arise, O glorious
Zion.” Prayer by Bishop Robert Mc-
quarrie. Singing, “Redeemer of Israel.”
Minutes of the March conference were
read and approved.
	President Richards made opening re-
marks; was pleased to meet again with
the sisters, and thankful that there were
so many present at such a busy time; felt
that those who were here were desirous
of being here, and that they were living
so as to deserye and secure the blessings
of the Lord.
	Counselor Emily M. Shurtliff was
thankful to be present; spoke of the
many times we have met throughout the
Church in this capacity, and of the many
brethren grown grey in this cause,and who
had been faithful through it all, it gave her
great joy to mingle with the Saints in
this capacity, and she felt that they were
all choice spirits, and considered it a great
blessing to have this privilege to live
and associate with them; her desire was
to have the loving confidence of her
brethren and sisters, and Sister Shurtliff
bore her testimony to the truth of the
Gospel.


[Column 2]
	President L. W. Shurtliff was pleased
to be present at this conference; was
pleased to listen to the minutes of the
last conference, and to notice the good
spirit there present and the good in-
structions which were given; “We should
seek the Lord, to know what was best to 
do and then do it to the best of our ability;
we often hear people say that they are
old, and that their work is done,” Felt
that he and Brother Middleton had grown
old in the work, but he considered that
their work had only begun, the example
and spirit of the sisters gave great en-
couragement to the brethren;felt that the
Lord would not desert this cause or his
people; had no fear of this congregation;
there are some who speak lightly of the
Lord’s anointed, but the daily labors of
the members of this organization and the
examples which they have set, have been
of greater benefit than anything else they
have done; although we may not be per-
fect, yet the Church organizations are,
because they lead up to the redemption of
mankind; was thankful that the Lord had
spared his life until this time; rejoiced to
know that his mother was with the first
organization of the Relief Society and a
member of it, and asked the Lord to
bless Sister Rfchards and all the officers
and members of these organizations.
	Sister Charlotte E. Driver was glad to
meet with the sisters again, as she had
been on a visit to the coast for some time
past, rejoiced to meet her dear friends
again; it had been very hard to leave all
that was so dear to her; desired the Lord
to direct her, so that she would do the
right thing, and was always proud to let
it be known that she was a member of
this Church; spoke of the San Francisco
disaster, and referred to the care taken of
the Saints there by the president of that
branch; and closed her remarks by ask-
ing the blessing of the Lord upon all.
	President Middleton was pleased to
have another opportunity of meeting with
the sisters in conference capacity; spoke
of his long association with President
Shurtliff and Brother Flygare, and of the
union which had always existed between
them, they had also associated with the
many Bishops of the stake in times past,
and with the various Church organizations
of the stake, and felt that such association
had been a great blessing to him; loved
to mingle with all because it helped to
strengthen him in his daily labors, felt
that we should develop, and not devote
too much time in the pursuit of wealth,
spoke of having called upon Sister Har-
riet Brown, and that he had found her
through all her afflictions to be the same
cheerful sister he had always known her
to be, was pleased to have Sister Driver
with us again, and felt proud to know
that we have such representatives out in
in the world.
	Bishop Robert McQuarrie enjoyed the
conference this morning; “We are mak-
ing our own history, and we should not
live for temporal things alone; spoke of
the divorce evil of the day, that the usual
complaint was that of non-support, and
said that the women of the earlier days in
Utah had more cause for divorce than the
women of today who ask for a divorce,
for there were many times that the early
settlers did not know how to support their
families; felt that we should put our trust
in the Lord, and He will provide, knew
that the Lord had placed choice spirits on

[Column 3]
this earth to fill positions of trust, and
that this people would be known as a
people who could be trusted in all things.
	Sister Rees, of Pleasant View, had
been connected with this work ever since
she was seven years of age, and had al-
ways had a testimony of the truth of the
Gospel, and was very grateful for this
blessing; felt that we should teach our
children to love the truth and the princi-
ples of the Gospel, in order to become
good men and women in the Church.
	Sister Mary Taylor said she had been
in the Church all her days; was thankful
for the experience of going through the
persecutions and trials that she had en-
dured, because it gave her an experience
which she could not get in any other way;
had listened to the voice of the Prophet
Joseph, and loved to go to meeting and
hear him speak; said she could remember
the organization of the Relief Society,
and that she would like to spend the re-
mainder of her life in doing Temple work,
if circumstances permitted, because she
felt that the Temple was as near heaven
as we could get in this world.
	Sister Richards made a few closing re-
marks, and the conference adjourned un-
til 1:30 o’clock p. m. Singing, “Our God
we raise to Thee.” Benediction by Elder
L. D. Rudd.

	At 1:30 o’clock p. m. the conference
reconvened, President Jane S. Richards
presiding. Singing, “I know that my
Redeemer lives.” Prayer by Bishop Al-
bern Allen Bingham. Singing, “Think
not when you gather to Zion.”
	Brother L. D. Rudd felt that the Saints
should be thankful for the testimonies
they have of the truth of the Gospel, and
that they are blessed above all other peo-
ples of the earth; rejoiced that he was a
Latter-day Saint, and bore his testimony
to the truth of the Gospel.
	Sister Frances B. Dance exhorted all to
live so that we would be prepared for the
coming of the Savior; and reported the
West Weber ward as a good and faithful
ward. Sister Sarah Hunter, Taylor
Ward, felt that by attending to our duties
it strengthens us to withstand all temp-
tations, and reported the Taylor Ward in
good condition. Sister Lucretia B. Farr
said that she had been a member of the
Relief Society all her life; was pleased to
be associated with such a band of sisters,
reported the Third Ward in good condi-
tion. Sister Rachel Gale, of Uintah, de-
sired the Spirit of the Lord to direct her
in what she said, bore a faithful testi-
mony reported the Uintah Ward in good
condition. Sister Johanna Agren, of Har-
risville, had a desire to lay up treasures
in heaven, so that she could reap a re-
ward therefor; reported the Harrisville
Ward as being in good condition. Sister
Margaret Jones, of Kanesville, was thank-
ful to be present and partake of the spirit
of the Lord; reported the Kanesville
Ward in a good condition. Sister Sarah
J. Shupe, of Eden, was thankful to have
been born and raised in the Church, re-
ported the Eden Ward as doing well.
Sister Mary M. Dye, of Riverdale, desired
to live in the manner and way of the
Lord, and reported the Riverdale Ward
as a faithful ward. Sister Agnes Herrick,
Second Ward, Ogden, said there was a
beautiful spirit present this morning; said
there was a good deal expected of us,
and that it was a delightful work; when


[Column 1]
she spent an afternoon in visiting her
ward she felt well paid in doing so; the
Lord had heard and answered her prayers;
reported her ward to be in a good condi-
tion. Sister Sarah A. Martin, Wilson,
said we should love and respect each
other, and have charity toward all, and
reported the Wilson Ward to be in good
condition.
	Bishop Albern Allen Bingham, of the
Middleton Ward, said it was interesting
to listen to the experiences of our moth-
ers; it seemed harder for the younger
generation to remain faithful on account
of the temptations surrounding them; was
thankful to have lived so that he could
hold the priesthood, and he knew that
there was power in it.
	Sister Mary J. Maycock, of Pleasant
View, hoped that we would put into
practice the good instructions which we
had received, and that we should pay
more attention to our spiritual than to our
temporal affairs; she felt that whenever
we meet in this building we enjoy a good
peaceful spirit; reported the Pleasant
View Ward as doing well. Sister Bing-
ham, Middleton Ward. said they have
their meetings every Thursday, they have
a glorious time. and reported the Middle-
ton Ward as doing a good work.
	Singing, “Glorious things are sung of
Zion.”
	Sister Richards extended an invitation
to those present to bear their testimonies,
and testimonies were borne by Sisters
Frances Wood, North Ogden, Sister Niel-
son, Huntsville. Sister Helena Lee, of
Far West, a Sister from Plain City,
Sister A. M. Bailey, Mound Fort, and
Sister Stove Thomas of Lynne.
	President Richards instructed the sis-
ters to hold their meetings once a week
if possible, as that was one of the pur-
poses of the organization; wished the sis-
ters to remember Sister Brown in their
prayers and in their meetings, and also
Sister Herrick, who years ago was one of
her counselors, but now resides in Logan;
prayed that we might always have the
Spirit of the Lord to be with us.
	Sister Emily M. Shurtliff said that we
had heard so many good things that she
felt she could not add anything further,
that she had visited Sister Brown, and
her health was about the same, but that
she was always the same sweet woman,
wished the sisters to remember her in
their prayers and in their meetings;
prayed the Lord to bless all, that we may
remain loyal to the truth.
	Bishop Robert McQuarrie felt that he
had been greatly blessed in listening to
the sisters, spoke of visiting a sister who
was compiling a genealogy. said it was a
pleasure to him on account of the faithful
testimony she bore; we should try to help
those who have temptations placed in
their way, for there are those who need
this care; felt grateful to know that testi-
monies were increasing among us, that
the young often bear a strong testimony;
asked the Lord to bless this organization,
and all like organizations, and Sister

[Column 2]
Richards with her counselors and all the
members of the Relief Society. Brother
Middleton said that he had enjoyed the
meeting very much. agreed with Sister
Richards in asking that the sisters hold
weekly meetings.
	Conference then adjourned for three
months. Singing, “Up, awake ye de-
fenders of Zion.” Benediction by Presi-
dent Middleton.
	Ellen W. HAMER, Ass’t Sec.

