[Vol8 | November 1921 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Guide | Title: Lesson I - Theology and Testimony]
Guide  Lessons  for  January 
LESSSON  I 
Theology  and  Testimony 
First  Week  in  January 
FOREWORD 
This  course  of  lessons  on  religion  is  intended  to  increase  in 
general  the  appreciation  of  the  doctrines  of  the  Church,  and  aid 
in  the  application  of  these  principles  to  home  life. 
Special  ernphasis  will  be  placed  upon  the  value  of  tradition- 
ing  children,  in  harmony  with  the  revealed  word  of  the  Lord,  in 
such  a  way  that  they  may  form  habits  of  thought  and  action, 
out  of  which  shall  come  constant  and  progressive  happiness,  to  the 
extent  that  any  and  all  departure  from  the  course  of  life,  set 
forth  in  the  gospel  plan,  will  cause  immediate  discomfort  to  the 
extent  that  there  will  be  a  yearning  for  a  return  to  the  path  of 
gospel  rectitude,  in  any  case  of  wandering  therefrom. 
An  attempt  will  be  made  to  have  each  lesson  aid  the  parent 
thought  and  direction  in  family  life,  furnish  a  knowledge  of  the 
truth,  create  a  love  for  the  truth,  and  for  Irabits  of  applying  the 
truth. 
In  presenting  the  matter  no  attempt  will  be  made  in  any 
case  to  exhaust  the  subject  nor  to  cover  the  field  of  references. 
PRAYER 
(Note:  Two  other  lessons  on  "prayer"  will  follow  this.) 
Introduction. 
It  is  a  blessed  privilege  to  be  in  correspondence  with  the 
Lord ;  it  is  a  woeful  condition  not  to  be  on  speaking  terms  with 
our  Father  in  heaven.  Forgetting  to  pray  is  evidence  of  spirit- 
i^al  carelessness,  and  wilful  neglect  of  prayer  is  proof  of  our  in- 
gratitude. 
Our  prayers  in  prosperity  are  always  teeming  with  love, 
those  in  adversity  are  usually  tinctured  with  fear.  Heaven- 
ward message-sending  here  trains  us  for  heavenly  message-ser- 
vice hereafter.  The  gresatest  messengers  from  on  high  were 
message-senders    while   on    earth.      Gabriel    (Noah)  ;    Michael