[Vol8 | November 1921 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Out of the World G. Milton Babcock]

OUT OF THE WORLD. 641 "Well, you'll get the partictilars when I dictate my report; but it was like this: I had ten men with me to help guard the scabs—fifty of 'em—come all the way from New York—and a dirtier bunch I never saw, every last one of them picked up in the slums! I can tell you its business I don't like, but it pays me well, so what can I do? "Well, we hardly got switched onto the spur track before the trouble began. They must have had pickets on the job, for every bell in the country began to ring, and after a while stones began to fly through the car windows. But that wasn't a circumstance to what was pulled off when we got near the mill gate. Then the strikers got after us with pistols, rifles, old shot guns and everything else. -Most of it went through one window and out the "My men returned the fire in good shape, and I took a shot once in a while myself, but it was so dark that we could hardly see an inch in front of us. The engine slowed down and all of a sudden the back of our car was dynamited, and with that the mob stopped shootin', The engineer says that just after the blowup, a fellow jumped in the cab, put a pistol to his head and made "How on earth did you manage to get back with the coach "Tt's a mystery to me how the wheels ever kept to the tracks— but they did, and we got: back over the trestle when they set it "How'll we get the strike-breakers in now?" "T reckon the company will get out an injunction against the union that'll stop interference with the scabs. I managed to get here in a closed automobile. I imagine, though, from what I've had with other strikes, that it'll take the militia to get them in The guard was right: the men were in an ugly mood. While 
 Injunction was openly disregarded, and the strikers, in desperation, laid violent hands upon every non-union worker that dared appear on the streets. This brought the militia—two companies from Saratoga and one from Schenectady. The mill virtually was turned into an armed camp, a powerful searchlight being mounted in the top of the sulphite tower, with sharpshooters watching at all points of the compass for possible depredations on the part of the strikers, For a time, it looked as if the men would speedily win their demands. The company was able to obtain only the lowest class of laborers—and very few of them. After they were secured, it was like "pulling teeth" to keep them. They demanded everything under the sun—comfortable quarters, good food and plenty of it, and high wages. All these demands were met, the company, apparently, being willing to pay them doutle what their former employees asked; and, strange to say, the eatables which were furnished were much more abundant and of a better quality than most of the strikers had been able to afford in their homes under normal conditions. During this trying period Walter was offered the position of night timekeeper to take the place of the former man who had resigned shortly after the strike was inaugurated because of his union sympathies. Walter hesitated about accepting, and not until he had sought out Mr. Whitman and learned: his views on the subject did he give a decided answer. Mr. Whitman told him to go ahead—that the former timekeeper had secured a good job in another town, and that the men desired that the well-being of the office force be guarded. Walter expressed to Mr. Whitman his sympathy with the union, though natural loyalty to the company impelled him to be careful what sentiments he expressed openly. Mr. Whitman took advantage of the occasion to suggest that Walter might be of service to the union by keeping him informed of the daily production of paper at the mill. However, Walter did not receive the suggestion very favorably and made no promises. The production phase gradually assumed the importance of a deciding factor in the strike situation. The flow of strikebreakers was satisfactory to the officials of the company and the organization at the mill became more efficient—so the company reported. Suddenly, the number of cars shipped jumped to the daily average under normal conditions, and the employers gave out the news that normal production had been reached. Discouragement began to make itself manifest in the ranks of the strikers at the news. Many had gone to nearby cities seeking temporary work only to meet with repulse, as a rule. Conditions in the village rapidly became alarming. Starva- OUT OF THE WORLD. - 643 tion was approaching and children went crying to school because of insufficient nourishment, while mothers with babes at their breasts pleaded piteously for more food. The funds of the organization were practically exhausted and help from the outside was insufficient to replenish the treasury. One afternoon, when Walter's Methodist friend, John Perkins, who had remained with the company was explaining to Walter that he was satisfied with his wages and too old to strike, anyway—started for home, boys with cans full of stones bombarded him. He dared not lay hands on his tormenters, for fathers were nearby who would be only too glad to take vengeance upon him under the guise of protecting their offspring. As he proceeded up the street, he quickened his pace, now and then ducking and dodging to avoid a larger imissile than usual. Finally, to the delight of the youngsters, he took to his heels, his long, stilty legs swinging desperately over the flagstones to the ac-. Companiment of roars of laughter from the adult onlookers and yells of derision from his tormenters. The office force witnessed the reception John received and feared to start out, for the uproar drew youngsters from all directions—like a street arc lamp attracts moths—each individual urchin bent on doing his full share to make the discomforture of Perkins complete. The superintendent granted permission to depart via. The yard gate, which would avoid the mob, but Crader, whose wife was awaiting him with horse and buggy, elected to accompany 'her, and Walter felt that he, himself, would be able to get through all right as it was pretty generally known among the strikers that he leaned toward their cause. Crader started out just ahead of Walter, drawing the mob of boys after him—Perkins having reached home—and when he turned off into another street it appeared that Walter would get by unscathed. However, as the horse gained. On the boys, they dropped the pursuit and upon spying Walter the cry went up, "Here comes another!" Walter almost ran past the intersection of the streets, but it was apparent that he could not escape. The howls of his pursuers rapidly sounded louder in his ears, while the shrill taunts and cries of women along the streets were added to the din. Several men elbowed him roughly as he passed hurriedly along. Just as the boys were about to overtake him, a girl suddenly stepped out and sturdily planted herself in front of the yelling rabble. "Back!" she commanded, "don't you dare touch him—he's for the union.", Walter almost stopped in amazement—it was Edith Whitman! A stone that whizzed dangerously close to his head brought him to his Senses and Promptly Caused him to resume his hurTied pace. "She's a brick!" © muttered as 2 backward glance Showed the crowd of boys dispersing in confusion, XIII. O Riven him, Almost UNNOticed, the daylight failed, and Walter Snt the Ig; t 2TOSe to lioh €n someone Steppe | lightly on the front Porch and the bel] efore Opening the door, he Called Cautiously, "Who's there p" "Tt's Edith," the answer. His Pulse quicke ed at the Sound of her Voice - Topped in to rave you this Mormon' 1 you let me take some S0," she @ Plained hesitating alter's eyes flashed Or a mo €nt—he took the tract With Out a word, Was plain Mbarrasg d here's your mother?" she inquired, "Ncertainly.; wn," was the Somewhat short answer, "Shall if? E's lying do I calf her >" h, no; [ Was just Wondering how she Was. If you don't mind, PI Sit down and rest for a moment, as J hurrieq a little &reat! 11] ave to confess that my legs Were shaking under me for some of the Tocks were coming Pretty close, 4 ' M4 n' Ure a brick? "That's all right, Walter 3 I didn't want to see you get hurt, Ww fo) i Was he hot color Mounted her Cheeks, and her lashes dropped, "T Couldn't bear to see any of my friends stoned," she answered 'By telling me how much paper the mil] is Making } she Teplied fensely, leaning forward and looking him Square in face. OUT OF THE WORLD. 645 For a few moments he thought earnestly, swaying between duty and— "Edith, I cannot! Much as I sympathize with the union, I cannot betray my trust." "But Walter, they never made you promise not to tell, did they?" "No; but I take it that that is understood. I have always made it a rule to work for the interests of my employer and to treat his business affairs as strictly confidential." "But Walter, just think: these men have been working for starvation wages—most of them," she reasoned earnestly. "Just think of it—$1.08 a day for man with a family!" "Oh!" she exclaimed sadly, "I have just come from calling on the Burnham's across from us—you know them they have six children. Walter, a rag man wouldn't give a quarter for the clothes they wear! Before I knocked at the door I heard their little girl—three years old—crying, 'I want some milk!' And I heard her mother say, "There ain't any, Frances.' "I had brought a quart of milk from home with me, and some bread, and you ought to have seen those children eat—and how happy it made me, too! Their mother wouldn't touch a bite, although I could see she was hungry. I went out and got some potatoes for her to cook. It took nearly the last cent I had saved, and I don't know how I'm going to be able to help any one any more," the tears welling in her eyes: It was a revelation to him to visualize this aspect of her beautiful character. "Walter, please tell me how much paper they are making," she begged. "You haven't confirmed the company's statement as to normal production, so I know they are not telling the truth. If you—have any regard for my friendship, you'll tell," she sobbed, "and for the sake of those innocent children!" 7 Woman's tears have ever moved man—especially those of the woman he loved—and Walter was no exception. Tenderly he soothed, "Don't cry, Edith; I'll tell you: the mill is making about one half the normal production," he told tremulously. "How is it they ship so many cars, then?" she asked, looking at him thankfully between her tears. "Simply because each car is only about half full." "What kind of men have they got?" "Some of the men are skilled and try to keep up a high standard; but most of them are an ignorant rabble and do more harm than good. Breakdowns are the rule, and from what I heard the superintendent say the other day, the paper will hardly stand the strain of the printing machines. "Say—what was it you said—if I—?" he teased, abruptly 
 Changing the subject, and with dancing eyes slyly reaching for her soft, white hand. "My goodness! There's the clock strking nine," she exclaimed, jumping to her feet. "Now, Mr. Sampson," holding up her finger in mock solemnity, "I've cut your locks, and if you're not careful and don't stop squeezing my hand so hard, I'll tell the Phillistines!" she proclaimed gaily. A stiffening of resistance soon became apparent among the striking mill workers, Mr. Whitman stating in a meeting of the union the true conditions that obtained at the plant—refusing, however, to divulge the source of his information. Militant tactics gave way to a calm assurance that the strike would be won, and a greater effort than ever was made to gain full public sympathy. It was common talk that the small stockholders of 'the paper company were demanding a settlement, and public opinion finally forced its way into the offices of the State Labor Commission, who, after several hearings, granted the men an increase of five per cent as against the ten per cent demanded. The commission had no power to enforce its ruling, but the company gave heed to its stockholders, and the ever growing clamor trom the public that the strike be settled and announced that it would accept the rulings of the Commission, A great change immediately took place at the mill. Soldiers were called home and the private guards released. The strikebreakers, having served their purpose, were, despite promises to the contrary, literally kicked out by the company; and, lest they linger about the community, the strikers sent in an additional "kick" for good measure. To complete the reconciliation, the company financed a picnic for the men in a nearby grove and industrial relations were fully restored. (To be concluded) ' GILES CANTATA The recent production by Professor Henry Giles of his Cantata, "Plan of Salvation,' was a deserved tribute and triumph for the veteran musician and composer. The rendition was fine, soloists were in good voice, and the theme itself was lofty and inspiring. We recommend our Relief Society Choirs to secure copies of his various original choruses which can be obtained _ by addresing Profesor Giles, 222 Third Ave., Salt Lake City. The performance was given in the Tabernacle Sunday afternoon, under the auspices of the Genealogical Society of Utah, in memory of the visit of the Angel Moroni to the Prophet Joseph Smith September 21, 1823.