Vol. 2.	 	 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, October 1, 1873.			No. 9.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	Stokes' trial is set for the 6th inst. Will
he be acquitted?
	A new witness, a woman appears in the
Stokes-Fisk case, through whose testimony
it is said he will be released. Let her tell 
her story.
	Her Majesty, Queen Victoria, receives
as her pension about $5,000 per day. The
Prince of Wales has about $109 per day.
No wonder English Royalty is considered
expensive.
	A man in Kansas offers to bet $500 that his
wife can walk 500 miles in three weeks. Like
a sensible woman she prefers that he should
do the "walking" himself; the design of
the proposed wager is too apparent.
	The big Graphic balloon which was to
start from New York on an upper air voyage
across the ocean to Europe, on the 12th of
September, had the good fortune to burst
before it was pumped full enough of gas to
"go up."
	Hon. Roscoe Conkling has been appointed
Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the
United States. He is reported to be a very
judicious and good man, as any man should
be holding so high and sacred an office in
the nation.
	An infant winter presented itself in this
position of the globe, about the 20th ult.
It bore no signs of violence, but merely
gave the atmosphere a sharp, chilly touch as if
to stir people up to a remembrance that cold
weather was not far away.
Miss Susan B. Anthony has lately published
a pamphlet containing a complete account
of the prosecution and trial of the women
who voted in connection with herself. No
one could have a better right to state the
facts in the case—not even Judge Hunt.
	The diabolical practice of drowning
children, is to be henceforth considered a
punishable offence among the Chinese. Sure
enough—not only in England, Scotland and
America are the rights of the feminine
portion of humanity being taken into con-
sideration, but even in heathen China also.
	Believing that his wife had the in-
terest of all their children equally at heart,
the late Rev. Dr. Todd bequeathed his whole
estate, worth $15,000 to her. So sensible a
man should have had a wife worthy of such
confidence, and he, doubtless, knew that what
he did was the fair way of doing business.
	Uneasiness and depression in the Lon-
don market, was caused by the sudden
failures in New York, although its own
financial condition is said to be firm and
sound. London has no need to get excited
over little financial crashes this side the
waters—it will have some of its own, per-
haps, before long.
	A Young lady in Pennsylvania left home
recently for the purpose of spending the af-
ternoon in gathering blackberries. The next
news her anxious mother had from her was
that she was married and settled down to
house-keeping in Georgia. She evidently
has an eye to business and understands the
rights of woman in relation to matrimony.
	On the nineteenth, ult., nineteen firms
failed in Wall Street, New York. Wild
[new column]
excitement among the people prevailed for
several hours, as a natural result. Reports
state that in the Gold Exchange, the scene
defied description, members acting like
demons as each new failure was announced.
Thus it is, the face of fortune varies, and
rich and poor are subject to its frowns
as well as its smiles.
	Chicago courts are said to turn out an
average of two divorces a day. The practice
tolerated is represented as having become so
common and familiar, that little attention is
paid to a divorce case by the judges, more
than to report in favor of the complainant's
petition. If, in that city, wives in general
should sue for about $20,000 alimony, their
divorce suits would be likely to create a
great stir.
	"X," in "Woman's Journal," takes a
very intelligent view of the woman suf-
frage question, demands a practical test and
says, why not give impartial suffrage a
trial? accept it as we would one of Dr.
Hall's cheerful prescriptions, which are
warranted to do no harm, even if they do no
good. Let men take the only sensible
course left for them; and give woman the
ballot.
	The "New North West" has a pleasant
way of expressing its views on certain
points. It says: Miss Eliza R. Snow, the
talented maiden polygamist, whose life and
religion constitute a remarkable matri-
monial paradox, has recently returned from
an extended Oriental tour. Her communi-
cations to the Woman's Exponent during
her absence have been characterized by strik-
ing versatility of genius and fine scholarly
ability, We regret that a fine poem from
her pen in blank verse, written we think, in
Palestine, clipped from the Exponent for
publication in this paper, was mislaid
during our vacation. Will some of our Salt
Lake friends be kind enough to forward us
another copy?"
	We are asked by the editor of the
"New North West," why it is that religious
revelations always come to men." It is a
mistaken idea that woman has not the same
right to know for herself what the Lord
requires at her hands, that a manhas The
Latter-day Saints acknowledge no such
theory. In numbers 16 and 17, volume 1,
of this journal, "W.E." writing on woman's
agency, very clearly illustrates that it is a 
divine prerogative belonging to woman to
call upon the Lord, and receive answers to
her prayers; and states that but for having
acted upon this principle, she should not
occupy the position she now holds as the
wife of a polygamist in Salt Lake City.
Thousands of "Mormon" women can truth-
fully bear the same testimony. Number
18, volume 1 of the Exponent, contains
"A Chapter in the Life of Naoma"—Mrs,
Vilate Kimball, wife of the late President
Heber C. Kimball—written by "B"—Mrs.
Sarah M. Kimball—(we give the names now
by permission) in which it is shown that
direct communication from God was given
to the woman in answer to her enquiries,
and that through this means only, she learned
the law of Celestial marriage, or plurality of
wives, as her husband, through sympathy
had refused to teach it to her.
	A convention by telegraph was recently
[new column]
held by the employes of the Atlantic and
Pacific Telegraph Campany, in reference to
the death of the late Superintendent of that
division, Mr. C. L. Goodwin, of which the
Troy, New York, papers give accounts. The
offices in that division were all connected
into one circuit, extending from New York
to Albany, thence via Troy to Saratoga
and return to Albany, westward to Syracuse,
and via Oswego, Clyde, and Rochester to
Buffalo and Niagara Falls, back from Buf-
falo via Auburn, Sennecca Falls, etc,, to
Auburn again. Each employe remained in
his office and gave by means of the telegraph,
his remarks or motions to the others. New
York called the meeting to order, at the
appointed time. Buffalo moved that Mr.
Hauff, chief operator at New York, be made
permanent chairman. Troy seconded the
motion and it was carried. Speeches, reso-
lutions, etc, followed; and after the
business for which the meeting was called,
had all been harmoniously transacted, an
adjournment took place. The accounts of
such proceedings must be interesting read-
ing to telegraphists.
	The "Missouri Republican" gives the
following account of the miraculous escape
from drowning of an infant "King:" "A
Mrs. King had a surprise at Shawneetown,
Ill., the other day. It was an accident that
Mrs. King happened to be at Shawneetown.
She did not intend to go there, but the
steam-boat "Jennie Howell," on which she
was traveling, struck a snag in the Ohio river.
Several of the passengers were drowned,
and among them some children. Mrs. King
had a child on board whom she mourned as
lost, and was taken to Shawneetown with-
out her babe. The "Jennie Howell" sunk
in deep water, and the next morning men
went to the vessel to recover the bodies of
the lost. Soon after daylight a mattress was
seen floating in the cabin, which was filled
with water nearly to the ceiling. Upon 
examination a child, a little boy, was discov-
ered on the mattress sleeping as peacefully 
as if nothing had happened. His bed was
not very dry, for it sunk a good deal from
soaking, but still sustained its living freight.
In due time the child was sent to Shawnee-
town, where the other passengers had been
landed the evening before. Its coming made
an excitement among the wrecked travelers,
for more than one mother had lost children
by the disaster. It was a touching scene
when Mrs. King recognized the child as her
boy whom she had mourned as lost nearly
twenty-four hours. The preservation of
Moses in the bulrushes was not so miracu-
lous as the safety of Mrs. Kings boy. He 
had been tossing about on the waste waters 
in the cabin all night, and was brought to his
mother alive in the hour of her deepest
affliction." This story is worthy of being
repeated by mothers, in teaching the little
ones concerning the goodness and alwise
providences of the great Creator; that He
lives and acts in our day as he did formerly,
when little Moses was born and saved from
the death which threatened him. Had the
child of Mrs. King awkened during the 
night, or had he chanced to roll off the
mattress in his sleep, we could not then
have exclaimed as we now do—happy baby,
thrice happy mother!


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


﻿BLESSINGS.
We have glorious light and sunshine,
Morning's brightness evening’s rest;
Spring’s sweet flowers, and Autumn’s treasu es,
Join to make earth’s children blest

We can list to heavenly music.
Strains that lift our thoughts from earth;
Cheers and gladdens those who gather
In home circles round the hearth.

Then, to crown all other pleasures,
Love and friendship bring their store,
Pure and priceles are their treasures,
And they’ll last forever more.

“Yes,” you say, “has not the serpent,
Cast his blighting trail o’er all;
Scattered seeds of sin and sorrow.
Pain and death, since Adam's fall? ’

True, yet ’tis in sorrow's darkness,
Friendship's purest rays are found;
Is it not the grave that opens.
Where celestial joys abound?

Would we cherish pearls and diamonds,
If for them no price we paid?
Could we know and prize the sunlight,
Were it not for night’s deep shade?

Scatter seeds of love and gladness,
Nourish them to life and light;
Then before their glorious brightness
Sin and death will take their flight.
							Hop .


R.S. REPORTS.
	Synopsis of the minutes of a meeting of
the Fifteenth Ward Relief Society, held in
the Fifteenth Ward Hall, Sept. 4th, 1873.
The meeting had been announced to the
public, and the hall was filled with the
members of the Ward and visitors from
various parts of the city, and the adjacent
settlements. The house was called to order
by President Mrs. S. M. Kimball. Singing
"Oh my Father thou that dwellest," prayer
by Mrs. Zina D. Young. Singing "We 
thank thee Oh God for a Prophet." An ac-
count of the organization of the Female
Relief Society in Nauvoo was given by Pres-
ident Mrs. S. M. Kimball, followed with
remarks by Sisters Z. D. Young, M. I.
Horne, P. Woodruff and a number of
others upon a variety of subjects, among
which were the object and aim of the Relief
Societies, the duties and obligations resting
upon its members, the instruction of the
young, the early and present condition of 
the Church, the principle of polygamy, and
so forth. Great interest was manifested 
by all the speakers, and we think we are
safe in saying that all persons were pleased
and benefitted by the meeting. Meeting
was adjourned at 5 p. m. Singing "Re-
deemer of Israel," etc. Benediction by
James M. Barlow,
			S. E. Russell, Secretary.
	Extracts from minutes of the 16th meet-
ing of the Tenth Ward Junior Retrench-
ment Association, held August 5th, 1873,
at the Tenth Ward meeting house. Meet-
ing opened by singing "Arise my soul
arise;" prayer by Sister Charlotte Fawcett;
singing, "Hail to the brightness of Zion's
glad morning;" minutes of the previous meet-
ing were read and accepted. Essay by Coun-
selor Mary A. Cheshire. President Mrs.
Mary J. Pierce remarked that order was the
subject for the evening, and said "Let us
cultivate it both at home and abroad, for
where good order is kept much good may
be accomplished. We should observe the
strictest order here in our meetings, for
nothing is governed rightly where there is
no order established. Order is one thing
we come here to be instructed in; then let
us keep good order among ourselves. I
[new column]
should like all present to give some of their
experience in keeping order. The young
ladies are improving with their essays.
May they continue to improve in all good
works, is my prayer." Mrs. Mary H. Tout
said: "We must get over this timidity, and
not let the moments pass by without im-
proving them; we should ask the Lord to
give us words to express our feelings. I 
am pleased with what has been said. If
we cultivate order among ourselves we will
find no difficulty in teaching it to others. I
know we are prospering and inasmuch as
we prove faithful we shall continue to pro-
gress" Sister Charlotte Fawcett said, "I
coincide with the young lady who has just
spoken—you are progressing rapidly, and I
know you are uniting your efforts to help 
carryon this work; keep on in the path
you are now pursuing and you will come off
triumphant in the end. I would advise all
the young ladies who have had their en-
dowments to be very particular to have
their garments perfect, for they are a shield
to us, and should be made after the right
pattern. I know that the order of Retrench-
ment is from God, and my whole heart is
in it. May we always be thankful for the
many blessings with which we are sur-
rounded." Mrs. Olive Ann Baxter made the
following remarks. "It is natural for the
young girls to be a little bashful when called
to speak, but they will soon overcome this,
and will see the great blessings of these
meetings. When I was young my father
taught me to fear the Lord and keep his
commandments, and I have done so to the
best of my ability. I thank my Heavenly
Father that I had some one to instruct me
in His ways. How thankful the young girls
should be in this day, for the many privi-
leges they enjoy! They not only have their
parents to instruct them, but they can meet
together on such occasions as this, and be
instructed by intelligent and experienced
ladies." Essay by Miss Martha M. H. Paul.
Miss Annie Phipens, Miss Martha M. H. 
Paul and Counselors Mrs. Mary H. Cheshire
made remarks. Appointments were made
for the next meeting, and meeting ad-
journed. Singing "Mid scenes of confu-
sion." Benediction by President Mrs. Mary
I. Pierce. (More than sixty young ladies
belong to the 10th Ward Retrenchment As-
sociation.)
		MARTHA M. H. PAUL, Secretary.
	Moroni, Sanpete Co., Sept. 12th, 1873-
DEAR EDITOR:—I take pleasure in inform-
ing you of the welfare of the Society in this
small settlement. During the last six
months we have been under great difficul-
ties through that terrible disease, the small-
pox, which, I am happy to say has now en-
tirely left us. A hundred and thirty took
the disease, only three cases proved fatal,
and I regret to say that our Secretary, Sister
Almira Chase and her two daughters were
the victims. Sister Chase was a very use-
ful member in our Society, but we feel that
our loss is her gain. We do not mourn as
those without hope; for, "blessed are the
dead that die in the Lord," for they rest
from their labors. The time is not far dis-
tant when we shall unite with them again
in a more exalted state of existence. Our
sisters have been doing all they could for
the benefit of the poor and the sick; we
have donated about a hundred dollars to
those that were in need; we have donated
twenty dollars to the Temple at St. George;
we own a one hundred-dollar share in the
Moroni Co-operative Mercantile Institution,
and in the Treasurer's hands, cash and
articles for sale, amounting to one hundred
and forty dollars. We hold our meetings
every two weeks. The sisters are united
in endeavoring to do good. Our meetings
are well attended and we enjoy them, and
wish to be co-workers with the brethren in
helping to build up the Kingdom of God,
that we may gain a Celestial exaltation with
them. Our Sabbath School is very prosper-
ous, the teachers are energetic in their
labors; have also a Juvenile choir, and it
does our hearts good to hear it singing hte
songs of Zion. God bless the Sunday school.
We appreciate your excellent paper and
wish it much prosperity.
	Yours in the Gospel of Truth,
		JANE BAILEY, President,
		CHRISTINA CHRISTENSEN,
		LOUISA LOWRY,		Counselors,
		C. CHRISTENSEN, Secretary,
		DEBORAH IRONS, Treasurer.
	The following is a condensed account of a
meeting held at American Fork, Aug. 29th,
1873. A large Audience was addressed by 
Sisters E. R. Snow and E. Howard, of Salt
Lake City; many sisters attending from
Alpine and Lehi cities. Miss Snow spoke of
the magnitude of the Latter-day work of the
Relief Society. It was to save souls as well
as to relieve the brethren of many cares,
that their time and talents might be
employed in other ways. It was requisite
that ever woman of good moral character
belonging to the Church, should be a mem-
ber of this organization; it was designed to
extend woman's sphere and endow her with
high and noble qualities. All should feel
the responsibilities of being teachers, and
seek to elevate the minds of all with whom
they came in contact, teaching charity in its
broadest sense; chastity, purity of thought,
and economy. Every virtuous woman of
the Church was called to be a member of
these Societies, and being called, was under
condemnation if she neglected to do so. The
speaker wished all to become immensly
rich by holding fast to Eternal things, the
riches of earth would follow. She desired
all to cultivate the Sixth Sense which was
the Spirit of God, and would enable them
to both see and enter the Kingdom of
Heaven. The neglect of the moral training
of children was touched upon. People were
prone to look well to their stock, their
orchards and all worldly affairs, but neglect-
ful of that higher responsibility—the proper
cultivation of the minds of their children.
The Gospel was as much adapted to children
as to the aged. The sisters were desired to
organize a Society of young ladies, to instruct
and encourage them, and it was recom-
mended that the members of this young
society be fitted to fill situations which seem
fit and proper in their sphere, such as clerks,
book keepers, type setters, etc. Miss Snow
was followed with able remarks from Sister
Howard, Bishops L. E. Harrington and
David Evans, and Sister Mary Hindley.
Meeting closed with singing "Oh my Father
thou that dwellest," and prayer by Elder
W. Greewood.
		MRS, MARY HINDLEY, President.
		MRS. E. EASTWOOD, Secretary.
	Extracts from the minutes of the 66th
meeting of the Senior and Junior Co-
operative Retrenchment Associations, held.
in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
on September 13th, 1873. President M.
I. Horne being absent, Counselor Mrs. Z. D.
Young Presided. After singing, and prayer
by Counselor Mrs. P. Woodruff; minutes of
the previous meeting were read and ac-
cepted, and minutes read of meetings held by
the Young Ladies' Association in the 10th
Ward. The meeting, which was large and
attentive, was addressed by sisters Z. D.


Young, B. W. Smith, E. R. Snow, Elizabeth
Barlow, (Prest. of the R. S. at Bountiful,) M
P. Young, Agnes Douglas, (of Payson,) E.
Howard, P. Woodruff and a number of
others. Meeting adjourned for two weeks;
dismissed with singing, and prayer by Mrs.
M. R. Thompson,
			MAGGIE M. GROO, Secretary.

		FRANKLIN, ONEIDA COUNTY,
					September 18th, 1873.
DEAR EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Society here is trying to keep up with
the times. Quite a number of the sisters
from this place, were at Richmond to hear
Miss E. R. Snow and yourself, and I assure
you we thought ourselves highly paid for
our trip down there, to the meeting, and
back. The object of your visit was an im-
portant one, and deserves the serious atten-
tion of the ladies of Utah. We anticipate
sending one young lady student from this
settlement. I value your little paper very
much, and forward money for the renewal
of my subscription, wishing you every suc-
cess.
	ELIZABETH FOX. Sec. Franklin R. S.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	FRUIT CAKE.—One-half pound of butter,
one-half-pound of brown sugar, three-quar-
ters of a pound of flour, two pounds of
currants, one-half pound of citron, one-half
pound of raisins, five eggs; beat the whites
and yolks separately. Use a little molasses—
and spice to taste.
	A GOOD OMELET.—Take six eggs, one
table-spoonful of flour, one of melted butter,
and a table-spoonful of milk to each egg.
Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth.
Mix the yolks, well-beaten with the other
ingredients, whites last, and add salt after
it is in the pan. Grease the frying-pan,
and pour the mixture in a thin layer; turn
one half over upon the other as It thickens,
or roll it up. . Cook to a delicate brown—it
requires close attention. Finely minced or
grated meat stirred into this omelet varies
the dish.
	LEMON TART.—To the grated rind and
the juice of one lemon add a teacupful of
sugar; stir into a teacupful of warm water
one teaspoonful of corn-starch and two finely-
powdered Boston crackers, and add to the
lemon and sugar; whip to a froth the white
of one and the yolks of two eggs. Add
these to the foregoing, stirring briskly, and
pour into a plate lined with a light crust.
While the above is baking in a moderately-
heated oven, whip the remaining white of
egg to a froth and stir in three teaspoonfuls
of powdered sugar. When the tart is done
remove from the oven and spread the beaten
whites over the top; then return to the oven
and brown slightly.
	BEEF-STEAKS, for broiling, should not be
much more than half an inch thick, or they
will be hard on the outside before they are
done through. Pepper but do not salt them
until previous to serving them, or the gravy
will be drawn. Do them over an ardent
fire, and only turn them once. When fried,
the pan should be made hot, then rubbed
over with fat, and the steak put in. A
quick fire is requisite. When done pepper
and salt it, and lay upon the top some pieces
of fresh butter. Remember, whether fried
or broiled, beeksteaks should be done quick-
ly; never suffer them to go to sleep over
the fire.
	FEW housekeepers appreciate the value of
chicken and turkey wings; they use them
to dust furniture and brush up the hearth,
but for washing windows they are of untold
[new column]
worth. There is nothing that equals them;
they clean the corners out easily, and leave
no lint upon the glass. Then for spreading
past on walls and paper there is no inven-
tion that will do the work half as well. Try
them once, and there will be no necessity of
telling people to be sure and save all the
wings.
	TO MAKE SOFT SOAP.—For one barrel of
soap, take thirty pounds of grease, free from
salt, rinds or bits of lean meat, and the lye
from two barrels of good ashes. Put one
quart of lime in the bottom of each barrel of
ashes. Put boiling water on to leach with;
have ready the soap barrel where it is to
stand. When the lye begins to run, melt
the grease in a little lye and pour it in the
barrel. Heat the lye and fill it full, stirring
frequently until cold. I always use the stove
kettle, as that is free from rust, which makes
white cloth yellow. Soap made in this way
will be very light colored and thick, and re-
quires but little labor in making. If the
lye is not strong enough to eat the grease,
boil it awhile.—“Cor. Agricultural Paper.”
	TOMATO SOUP.—For this excellent soup
the proportions are,seven or eight middling-
sized tomatoes, three pints of broth, salt,
pepper, a teaspoonful of pepper-corns, three
cloves, a quarter of a pound of rice, a table-
spoonful of butter, one ounce of sugar, three
slices of bread. The tomatoes are put in
boiling water for a few seconds, taken off
and dropped into cold water, and then skin-
ned. They are put in a saucepan, and set
on a moderate fire with the broth. When
cooked, the whole is turned into a col-
ander and forced through with a potato-
masher, except the tomato seeds; then the
strained juice and pulp are mixed with the
rice; after it has been boiled the butter and
sugar are added. The whole are simmered
about half an hour, and turned into the soup
dish. While it is simmering the slices of
bread are cut in dice and fried in a little
butter, and put in the soup tureen before
turning the mixture therein. Cover it for
a few minutes, and serve.
	PICKLED CAULIFLOWERS.—Take good
white heads, break them into small pieces
and boil for ten minutes in strong salt and
water. Skim out the pieces, which should
be so tender that a splint of broom corn can
be run through the stems. Lay them on a
towel to drain off the water, and when thor-
oughly cold put them into a pickle jar, with
a few whole cloves, allspice, pepper, and
sticks of cinnamon tied up in a cloth. Boil
and skim the vinegar; then pour it directly
over the cauliflowers. If a few beets are
sliced up in the vinegar while boiling, they
will color the cauliflower stalks a bright coral
red, and make them more attractive to the
eye.—“Country Gentleman.”
	WHOOPING COUGH REMEDY.—Take plan-
tain leaves; wash and bruise them well; now
strain through a cloth, and sweeten with
honey; for an adult one tablcspoonful is a
dose.
	INVIGORATING HOUSE PLANTS.—House
plants ought to be stimulated gently once
or twice a week. Rain water, so refreshing
to summer flowers always contains ammo-
nia, which also abounds in all liquid ma-
nures. If you take an ounce of pulverized
carbonate of ammonia, dissolved in one gal-
lon of water, it will make spring water even
more stimulating to your plants than rain
water. Keep the soil in the flower pots
loose.—“Mass. Ploughman.”


﻿THE washerwomen of Detroit are said
to be organizing a trade union to protect
themselves against “Chinese cheap labor.”


[For the EXPONENT.
A WOMAN’S VIEWS ON MARRIAGE.

	“In marriage a man gives everything and
a woman nothing,” I heard a man say the
other day. Now, as a woman, I am going
to tell what I think about it; I think the
gentleman is very much mistaken, who
entertains such an idea as the above. When
a girl is single she may always feel entitled
to an escort; she can visit places of amuse-
ment, dance, walk and enjoy herself socially 
with any respectable gentleman friend. But
when married, according to my idea of man-
ners and morals—which if severe is also safe—
she has no such privileges. If her husband
does not choose to see or hear anything 
attractive, she must stay at home. This
being the case, gentlemen, put it to your-
selves, were it in woman’s power to say to
you after marriage, “you must not go to 
any place of amusement unless I am pleased
to take you,” if you would not fancy you had 
run a risk and made some sacrifice. Yet,
the precious gift of her whole life, the merg-
ing of her existence into that of her hus- 
band’s is not esteemed too great a sacrifice
by a true, loving woman, if she meets with
a fitting return from him whom she has
chosen for a guide and protector. For he
can repay her for all this if he chooses. Not
with houses or gold or ought of worldly
wealth; but with his whole heart, his care
and tender, lover-like attentions. Whether
he has wealth or not, this is the only true
equivalent he can offer, even then, the
faithful, loving wife receives no more than
she bestows.
	If there is a bridegroom who, when he 
holds his bride’s hand, at the altar, clasping
there a true, good woman’s hand, believes
that what he can give her to eat and drink,
and to wear, are the inducements by which
she is persuaded to assume the duties of
wifehood, he is gravely mistaken. The
maiden who seemingly gives him nothing,
and upon whom he promises to bestow “all”
—as he vainly imagines—takes upon herself
the responsibilities of becoming a wife
because she loves him! Because to minister
to his comfort in health or in sickness, to
add to his happiness, to share his joys or
sorrows, to bear any or all burdens common
to the lot of mortals, with him and for him
has become the sacred and cheerful duty 
and pleasure of her life!
	A man may suppose that a wife yields no
privileges on her wedding day, in taking
him to be her “all in all,” no matter what
he may prove to be—and there’s no guessing
at that beforehand. He must be thenceforth,
the only man in the world to her. She
must have no more half sentimental friend-
ships—which are often very dear to femin-
ine hearts—instead of exerting the powers
of her maidenhood’s charms to please all,
she must bear with her the dignity of
a matron; and this is indeed a hard lesson
for some girls to learn.
	Intellectual superiority, a struggle to gain
the ear or the eyes of the world, success in 
some profession, are not requisites to place 
the wife on a level with her husband, as 
his helpmate, the mother of his children
and his home-maker. She stands equal
with him, though his powers of mind like
his bodily strength, may be, in most respects
superior to hers. He may battle with the
world as she may not, but who, among
men can give such truth and tenderness,
and enduring fidelity as this constant wife
will give? This woman, who makes her-
self most man’s equal when she is most
truly a woman! And who can receive noth-
ing at his hands, as his wife, that she
cannot repay!		MRS. MARY TOUT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT
		 L. GREENE RICHARDS, EDITOR.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street.
Salt Lake City.
	Address all business communications to
					Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
									Salt Lake City, Utah.

			SALT LAKE CITY, Oct. 1, 1873.


﻿SPLINTERS.
	Chicago had a large fire on the 17th ult.
......The Cincinnati “Commercial” leads out
with an editorial in favor of woman suffrage,
entitled “Sex and political Rights.”......
In three years, four hundred lepers were
gathered at the leper settlement of the How-
aiian Islands, on Molokai......Miss Claussen
of Point Reys is the conductor of a dairy on
what is known as the Swedish system........
The fact is strongly evinced that the use of
tobacco, with all its other evils, leads direct
to organic disease......Want of sleep has
been proven to be one of the most prolific
causes of insanity among working people....
Fruit drying is becoming a very important
industry in some portions of California......
The largest deer ever known in San Fran-
cisco was lately killed by a young man
named Frank Thomas. It weighed one
hundred and seventy-six pounds......Te-
hame, California, is crowded with wheat
this season......An album adorned with
diamonds was the gift of the Shah to
Marshal McMahon........A woman in St.
Louis is the owner of one thousand cattle
which she lately assisted in driving from
Texas........California laws give a married
woman the same controll of her property
that an unmarried woman has......An old
soldier named Ralph Morris, who was at the
Battle of Waterloo, and who fought at Cor-
unna under Sir John Moore, has lately been
discovered living in London......In less
than three months, more than thirty women
have been appointed post-mistresses in the
United States......A snake charmer in Paris
lately died from the bite of a viper which
he had beaten and then ordered to kiss
him......Seven pounds of wool per head was
the average of a flock of sheep, this year,
owned by a California farmer......An elderly
lady in Pennsylvania, named Stanton, has
never let the fire go out in her cottage but
one time in twenty-seven years.......A New
York manufacturer says the work girls of
that city are nearly all Irish, with a few
Americans, no Germans, Swedes or Danes.
......The songstress, Patti, is in Paris........A
A contemporary wants to know if this good
globe is not a ball of liquid fire. Not quite,
yet we hope......Salmon color trimmed with
brown is becoming a prevailing fashion......
A late thing in a bridesmaid's dress is a
queer little cap with a long veil attached.....
Shreveport, Louisana, has been so afflicted
with yellow fever, during the past month,
that not enough who were able to stand
could be found to wait on the sick......Horse
cars are denounced as a great nuisance by
the Commission of Police in London, and
the probability is that street railroads will
soon cease to exist there, in the heart of the
city at least......General Charles H. T. Collis,
city solicitor of Philadelphia, brought some
Austrian officers to book, for insulting two
American girls at Vienna......A Milwaukee
lover took two bottles of poison the other
day, because his lady-love refused to take
him. The lady does not regret having said
no......The capital of the New York United
Rolling Stock Company, is placed at $5,000,-
000.........At Savannah, Georgia, the oldest
editor connected with the American press,
Mr. Jacob Lardoza, recently died aged
 ighty-seven years......It has been decided
that the late Duke of Brunswick died of
congestion of the brain......The Italians are
said to have a method of preserving their
dead, by which the bodies are kept in their
natural shape and rendered as hard as stone.
......Nelaton, the great French surgeon, is
reported hopelessly ill......Professor G. H.
Perkins,of the Vermont University gives in-
teresting accounts of the ancient Indian buri-
[new column]
al ground at Swanton. One body has been
discovered which was buried standing erect,
and another with the head down......The
Empress Eugenie is said to be growing
disspirited......Ned Buntline, the novelist,
is recommended by a New York paper as
being fit for an insane asylum......One of the
Siamese Twins has been summoned to sit on
a jury. The other is invited to accompany
him......Lord Aberdare, is the title given to
Mr. Bruce, lately raised to the Peerage......
The King of Denmark has made Prince
Arthur a Knight of the Order of the Ele-
phant......The Emperor of China offers a
salary of £2,400 per annum for a head gar
dener......Two of President Grant’s sons
accompany a son of Speaker Blaine on a
pedestrian trip over the Aalleghanies to
Washington, Pa., Mr. Blaine’s old home.....
No British Sovereign has visited the He-
brides since James the VI., of Scotland, but
it is expected that Queen Victoria will visit
the Isle of Skye while on her Highland
tour.......A Baptist minister in Indiana,
married in two weeks after the death of his
wife, because, finding no word of comfort
for the widower in the Bible, he took it for
granted that the Lord would not waste
sympathy over him and he must find conso-
lation for himself......A new grain has been
discovered in Oregon and the people are
puzzled as to what it shall be called.......An
account of a combat between two large Rocky
Mountain eagles forms an interesting
paragraph in a late San Francisco paper.


﻿IMPROVEMENTS.

	It will be gratifying to the friends of the EX-
PONENT to learn that a standing committee,
called a Committee of Consultation, has been
organized to act in promoting the interests of
the paper, and rendering it still more valuable
as a representative of the ladies of Utah.
	A primary meeting of the committee was
held at the residence of President George A.
Smith, on the 28th ult., when Miss Cornelia
Horne was nominated and appointed to act as
Business Manager; Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball,
Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith, Mrs. Lu L. Dalton,
Mrs. Anna Ivins, Mrs. Minerva Snow, Special
Correspondents; and Mrs. Zina D. Young, Mrs.
Margaret P. Young, Mrs. Lily Staines, Mrs.
Sarah Smith, Mrs. Mary J. Thompson, Mrs.
Margaret Steel, Mrs. Elvira Barney, Mrs.
Amanda Kimball and Miss Sarah E. Russell,
Local Agents.
	These arrangements are not intended to dis-
courage others, in the least, from contributing
in any way to the interests of the EXPONENT.
The invitation as given in its first issue, for the
women of Utah to represent themselves, is still
extended to all; and other special correspond-
ents will also be added to the above list from
time to time, as may be deemed wisdom.
	The names of the Committee of Consultation,
to which other additions may also be made,
are as follows: Miss Eliza R. Snow, President;
Mrs. Mary I. Horne, Mrs. S. M. Kimball, Mrs.


﻿Z. D. Young, Mrs. B. W. Smith, Mrs. W. East,
Miss M. E. Cook, Mrs. S. M. Heywood, Mrs. E.
Howard, Mrs. Priscilla Jennings, Mrs. Priscilla
Staines, Mrs. Needham of the 8th Ward, Mrs.
Agatha A. Pratt and Mrs. Hattie C. Morris,
members, and Miss Minnie Horne, Secretary.
	Occasional meetings of the committee will be
called by order of the President, as may be
deemed necessary, and Agents for the EXPO-
NENT will be appointed in every settlement
throughout the Territory.
	This is another step toward carrying out the
counsel given by President Young, in relation
to the pursuits and employments of women,
and we hope to find new interest and energy
awakened in our many friends to aid in this
direction.


MOTHERS AND DAUGHTERS.
	No truth is more patent than that one so
much talked of, in which it is shown that the
influence which the words and examples of
mothers bear over the minds of their children,
affect, to a very great'extent, the entire forma-
tion of their characters.
	The lady must have been a model wife and
mother, who was thus pleasingly complimented
by her husband, when he was asked what he
intended to do with his daughters: "intend,"
he replied, “to apprentice them to their moth-
er, that they may learn the art of improving
time, be fitted to become wives, mothers, heads
of families and useful members in society.”
All that a mother is herself, and much more,
she may help each one of a large family of
daughters to become. And though it is not
always the case, that ingenuous, intellectual,
ambitious and thrifty wives prepare their
daughters to become like helpmeets—yet good
mothers will raise good daughters, and a good
daughter can hardly fail of making a good wife.
	The great difficulty generally appears to be,
that mothers do not occupy sufficient time and
thought, in instructing their daughters, in the
ways of life, that they may become themselves
such wives and mothers as will render homes
and communities blessed.
	It is a serious fact that although the life or
death, the welfare or ruin of offspring depends
on the treatment which it receives, scarcely a
word of instruction, in relation to this impor-
tant subject, is ever transmitted to the consider-
ation of those who are by-and-by to become pa-
rents. Contemplate the situation of the young 
mother, who, but a few years ago, was at school,
treasuring in her memory only such words and
sentences as she found in her grammar, spelling
book and reader; and using her reasoning pow-
ers only to solve mathematical problems. The
intervening time she has, most likely, passed
in the practice of music, fancy work or some-
thing of less importance. Or perhaps she has
taken a position in the kitchen, where she has
learned to wash dishes, and, possibly, to cook a
meal of victuals. No thought of the graver re-
sponsibilities of maternity has been entertained;
she, consequently, has as little understanding
of the proper care of an infant as it is possible
for a person of common intellect to have. And
in her over-anxiety to keep her child from all
ill, she is as liable to smother it with too much
wrapping, or injure it by feeding too much or
too often, or the wrong kind of food, as she is
to do it grievous injustice through thoughtless- 
ness and neglect.
	Yet, in all this ignorance, an unfolding hu-
man character is committed to her charge, the
molding of which could but be imperfectly ac-
complished with the aid of the best knowledge
and skill a mother can posses.
It is asserted that parents should raise one


WOMAN'S EXPONENT				


family in order to learn how to raise one prop-
erly. If this be true, how necessary is it that
parents give their children all the benefit of
their experience that it is possible for them to
impart. But some mothers never seem to learn
what the position they hold in the world is, or
ought to be. A bitterly painful remark was
made by the unhappy husband of a vain,
thoughtless, gaudy slattern. He said: “It is
hard to say it, but if my girls are to grow up
good for anything, they must be sent out of the
way of their mother’s example.”
	No mother should allow such to be truthfully
said, or thought of her. If she would see her
daughters ornaments in society, let her set ex-
amples worthy of their imitation.


WOMAN’S VOICE.

	A letter, written by a young lady of this city
(at present one of a trio of wives belonging to
one household) to a relative residing in Ver-
mont, has been courteously handed in, from
which we take the following: Sometimes, in
my anxiety to see you, I feel that I could almost
fly to you. My only hope is, that you will be-
come convinced of the truth of “Mormonism.”
I know you are honest in heart, and we believe
that all such will, eventually, embrace the
truth.
	As for polygamy, you would not feel about it
as you do, if you looked upon the principle in
its purity as we do. You speak of mistresses or
concubines. We do not believe in a man’s liv-
ing with women as wives, only by right and
lawful marriage, any more than you do. But
if you believe in the Bible, you must believe
that the Lord blessed and favored men who
practiced polygamy anciently. Besides, He
commanded it in certain instances. And He
said that in nothing did King David sin, except
in the case of Uriah the Hitite. I cannot see
anything corrupt in polygamy, only as it is
viewed from a corrupt standpoint, as most of
the world view it.
	My husband has another wife, and he took
her with my sanction; not but I am a woman,
and have jealous feelings, if I would allow them
to predominate. But our religion teaches us to
make our own will subservient to that of the
Lord, whom, we most assuredly believe, has
commanded this practice among His people.
Since I have been living in it, I have greater
proofs of its divine origin than ever before. For
I find by seeking the Spirit of God that I can
be happy. Now, I contend that if it did not
belong to the truth, there would be nothing
that could make us feel happy in it.  I could
not endure to have my husband keep a mistress,
any more than you could endure such a thing
yourself. But I cannot see why Christendom
should think a plurality of wives an abomina-
tion now, any more than in ancient times.
	I would like to have the privilege of preach-
ing you a real Gospel sermon, and I almost
know you would believe the truth.
	If the former day Saints had need to repent
of their sins, and be baptized for the remission
thereof, why should not the same be required
of us, in order that we may be saved in the
kingdom of God? "Jesus said, except a man be
born of water and of the Spirit, he can in no
wise enter into the kingdom of Heaven.” And
that declaration was not confined to the people
of His day. He also set the pattern by going
down into the water, and being baptized by
John.
	How my heart would swell with joy if I could
see you put away prejudice, and investigate
this work with open honesty! If you do not
feel right about it, go to the Lord and ask Him
in faith, believing, and you will receive a testi-
mony for yourself.				M.A.F.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	A PROMINENT feature in the present Territo-
rial Fair will be  a competition for the best
horses for speed and draught.
	ON THE 29th ult. another company of emi-
grant Saints arrived in this city, having trav-
eled from Liverpool under the presidency of
Bishop Fairbanks, of Payson.
	TO-MORROW THE Territorial Fair opens, in
the building and on the grounds of the 13th
Ward Assembly Rooms. A pleasant and lively
time is anticipated by the participants.
	THE SALT Lake Theatre opens this evening
under its new management, the famous comedy
of “School for Scandal”—Sheridan’s—having
been selected for the occasion, with a fine cast
of characters. A brilliant run may be expected.
	THE PROPOSED grand Sunday School jubilee
has been postponed till next spring or summer,
on account of the lateness of the season, and
that more time may be had for the preparation
of the original pieces to be sung on that occa-
sion.
	THE FIRST National Bank of Utah, in conse-
quence of an excitement among the depositors,
caused by reports of the failures in New York,
was obliged to close its doors recently, for a
short time; but we understand that it has sus-
tained no losses, and is perfectly solvent.
	THE “DESERET News” offers the following
compliment: The lady compositors, who are at
work in the west upper room of the new build-
ing in the Tithing Office yard, are making ex-
cellent progress. They number half a dozen and
some of them already do very creditable work.
	SEVERAL QUARRELS between women in dif-
ferent parts of this city, have lately been noticed
by the daily papers. This is shameful, and is
becoming too frequent. Women of no better
bringing up, or understanding, should be visited
by teachers of morality, and taught principle
in some form.
	DURING THE past few months, three infant
children have been called by death from the
family of Mr. M. B. Shipp, of the 11th Ward,
in this city. The death of the latest, a little
daughter, occurred on the 29th ult. The sym-
pathies of numerous friends are extended to the
bereaved household, and, it is to be most sin-
cerely hoped, that the grim destroyer will enter
there no more.
	NEXT MONDAY, the 6th inst., the general
fall Conference of the Latter-day Saints con-
venes for the forty-third time. Many people
from the country will be in town; and again we
announce, for the benefit of our friends, any of
whom we should be pleased to see, that the
office of WOMAN'S EXPONENT is on West Tem-
ple Street, one block South of the Tabernacle
block, opposite the City Market.
	AMONG THE recent deaths of children which
have occurred in this city, one of the most
lamentable recorded, is that of little Ellie Con-
rad, a three year old grandchild of President B.
Young. The little girl was visiting with her
mother at her grandmother's house, on the 26th
ult., where she found and eat a small piece of
cheese which had been placed for the destroying
of mice, with strychnine upon it, and which
resulted in the death of the child a short time
afterwards.
	WE ACKNOWLEDGE with pleasure, the receipt
of a polite invitation from the young ladies of
the 10th Ward Retrenchment Association, to
attend a Grand Calico Ball, which will be given
by them on the evening of Tuesday, the 7th
inst., in the new meeting-house of that Ward.
The proceeds of the ball will be given to help
defray the expenses of the building. Price o
tickets, $1.00 each. We are requested to say that
a cordial invitation is extended to all the mem-
bers of the Retrenchment Associations. Mary
H. Tout, Mary A. Kedington and Nettie Poll
are the names of the Committee, and Miss M.
M. H. Paul is Secretary. We anticipate for
the young ladies a pleasing success, and for all
who attend a very enjoyable evening.
	THE "LATTER-day Saints Millenial Star,"
published in Liverpool by Albert Carrington,
has for some months past been presenting to its
readers the initials of the name of the popular
and favorite Salt Lake comedian, Mr. John C.Graham, under interesting articles of a genuine
sermonizing character. Now that the Salt Lake
Theatre is to be newly opened, imagination
contrasts the present occupations of that gentle-
man with the position he held a year ago. And
fancy recalls, with the thought of his eager
perusal of the news from Utah, some odd expres-
sions in "Three fast young men," and the won-
der arises, might not his memory casually revert
to "Now I'll tell you what it is, boys, I want-
to go home!"


﻿HOW THE BLESSINGS COME.

	We are some times led to consider that
good nature is only the better part of good
sense. For so much of what is called fate
and fortune, depends upon the manner
people have of viewing things.
	Not long since we heard a young woman
in conversation with her brother, to whom
she remarked, that she did not know why
it was so, but it seemed, the Lord had, all
her life seen fit to bless and prosper her.
It was not her superior managemennt, she
said, but some how, there was always some-
thing for her to be grateful for and rejoice
over. The Lord favored her so greatly,
almost more than any one she knew. The
brother affectionately replied that the grand
chief cause of all the pleasantness of her
life, was that she possessed one of the
sweetest dispositions in the world, and the
happy faculty of knowing how to make the
best of every thing, and finding blessings in
numerous little things that many others
would never think of noticing as such.
	There was enough of sincerity and warmth
in the tones of the generous, manly voice,
to gladden a heart as susceptible of kindness
as the lady’s of whom we write, had not the
words themselves been so full of encourage-
ment and loving appreciation. And she
felt it. A joyous, grateful light came into
her eyes and diffused itself over her face.
There was a little blessing offered, she
accepted it.
	Daily and hourly, are such trifling gems of
worth scattered about us. And we may,
by gathering up, and carefully preserving
them, be constantly blessed; or we may let
these little beams of sunlight pass by us
unheeded, and be always miserable and anx-
ious, looking away into the future for great
lights that perchance may never present
themselves. It is but a collection of many
tiny rays that forms the most glorious rain-
bow. It is likewise a treasured store of
daily blessings which makes a life continu-
ally and greatly blest.
								L.


THE fiber of a single silk cocoon is 1,520
feet in length.


CRANBERRIES may be profitably cultivated
on swampy ground that would otherwise be
useless. At Cape Cod, where the cranberry
culture is carried to its fullest extent,
swampy lands, that were worthless a few
years ago, have now a saleable value of $800
and $1,200 per acre.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿THE FAVORED SCHOLAR.

		    BY JOHN ROGERS.

	Oh, rash young man! to keep a school,
	And think to hold your idle rule
	O'er the enchantress by your side,
	So graceful in her maiden pride,
	So piquant in her fresh array,––
	Like an incarnate Summer's day,
	With hanging curls, and parted lips
	And rose between her finger-tips,
	And all Love's ready witchery hid
	'Neath each averted, drooping lid.

	Half-teased, half-pleased, he sits up there,
	And holds the slate with patient air,
	Showing the oft-repeated sum,
	Waiting to hear the answer come,––	But she knows more––her instincts tell her,
	With what a rein she holds the "feller,"––
	And tho' the answer lingers now
	Under her broad New England brow,
	She's in no haste, ah, no! not she,
	To solve the ancient mystery;
	'Tis pleasant, standing by his side
	In girlish fun and maiden pride,
	Just conscious of her latent power,
	A queen––for one brief morning hour!

	The lilacs in the sultry air
	May droop their purple clusters fair,
	The unused ink-horn idle lie,
	The rusty pen grow stiff and dry,
	While, heedless of the boy below
	Who boldly mocks the pretty show,
	With reckless impudence of wit,
	Sets comrades in a laughing fit;
	Heedless of aught and all save her,
	Watching to see her eyelids stir––
	The master of the village school
	Learns to submit to Cupid's rule!


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	About Rag Carpets.—Not long since, while cut-
ting a piece of rag carpeting to suit the rooms for
which it was designed, I was much annoyed by its
“propensity” to unravel, wasting at least an inch
at each end, which to my economical mind was not
at all pleasant. So I "set my wits to work" to
devise a better way, and have found that by stitch-
ing it on the sewing machine, on each side of and
very close to the dividing line, or where it is to be
cut off, no wastage will occur, and the edges may
then be bound with narrow binding as other car-
peting. Some ladies whom I know supply their
weavers with old yarn which is woven in at stated
lengths, according to the size of the room which
the carpet is intended for. As the yarn will not
unravel easily, it may be cut there, and hemmed or
bound, as preferred 

Beefsteak.—A method of broiling equal in every
respect to the gridiron, excepting that it lacks the
smoky taste, is this: Set your spider on the stove,
and let it get smoking hot. Put in no butter nor
any kind of grease. Have your meat previously
prepared by trimming off all  pieces of bone, gland;
superfluous suet and tissues that will bind the edge
and make it curl up. Lay it very carefully and
smoothly in the spider. It will stick fast at first,
but as soon as it is browned, can be loosened with
a knife. Sprinkle a little salt on the upper sur-
face, and turn it over. Let the other side brown
the same as the first. Have a platter warmed,
lay the meat carefully upon it, without besmearing
the edges, dress with butter and pepper, and send
it to the table hot. By this process you have as
crisp and brown a surface, with the juice retained,
as well as by broiling, and the additional advan-
tage that the inevitable drippings are saved, and
can be converted into gravy.

	Wash For Buildings.—The following is a most
excellent, cheap and durable wash for wooden fen-
ces and buildings. It owes its durability cheifly to
the white vitriol which hardens and fixes the wash:
	Take a barrel and slack one bushel of freshly
burned lime in it, by covering the lime with boil-
ing water. After it is slacked, add cold water
enough to  bring it to the consistency of good white-
wash. Then dissolve in water, and add one pound
of white vitriol (sulphrate of zinc) and one quart of
fine salt. To give this wash a cream color, add
one half pound of yellow ochre (in powder). To
give it a fawn look, add a pound of yellow ochre
and one-fourth of a pound of Indian red. To make
the wash a handsome gray stone color, add one half
pound of French blue and one-fourth pound of
Indian red; a drab will be made by adding one half
pound of burnt sienna, and one-fourth pound
Venetian red. For brick or stone, instead of one
bushel of lime, use half a bushel of lime and half
bushel of hydraulic cement.
	Be careful with needles.—Many persons have
experienced years of suffering, and not a few have
lost their lives on account of carelessness with
needles. Needles are very useful articles, but are
extremely dangerous when dropped about the floors,
carpets and ruggs, or when carelessly left sticking
in unfinished work.
	About three years ago a woman, while wringing
out a cloth with which she had been wiping the
floor, broke a needle off in her hand. She suf-
fered extremely; and the piece of needle is yet in
her hand, surgical aid having failed to discover it.
A young lady sat down and inclined back against a
piece of unfinished work which she herself had
placed on the back of the chair, and broke the
needle off in her arm. The arm swelled exceed-
ingly and was very painful, but the needle could
not be extracted. A worthy citizen and personal
friend of the writer of this item, as he was about
to retire for the night, stepped on a needle which
had lodged in a rug by the bedside and broke it off
in his heel. He was compelled to undergo a sur-
gical operation in order to obtain relief from the
pain which was caused by this seemingly insignifi-
cant wound. A man in Somerville, Mass., recent-
ly, while eating chicken pie felt, as he supposed, a
small bone lodge in his throat. He applied to a
surgeon who extracted the offensive agent, which
proved to be a rusty needle. It is supposed that
the needle was carelessly dropped into the food
which the chicken ate, and that it worked its way
into the flesh of the chicken and came near des-
troying the life of the man in question. Numer-
ous other cases might be mentioned, but these are
deemed sufficient to forcibly impress upon the minds
of the incautious the great importance of being
careful about needles.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	NEURALGIA.—Neuralgia and toothache
are sometimes speedily relieved by applying
to the wrist a quantity of bruised or grated
horseradish.
	CHARCOAL FOR WOUNDS.—A correspon-
dent of the Scientific American says:—“The
best simple remedy I have found for surface
wounds, such as cuts, abrasions of the skin,
&c., is charcoal. Take a live coal from the
stove, pulverize it, apply it to the wound
and cover the whole with a rag. The char-
coal absorbs the fluids secreted by the
wound, and lays the foundation of the scab;
it also prevents the rag from irritating the
flesh, and it is antiseptic.
	THUMB-SUCKING.—I have observed that
a peculiar and rather common deformity of
the chest is caused by the habit of sucking
the thumb in infancy and early childhood.
The weight of the arm on the thorax of the
child during sleep produces depression of
the ribs in the line occupied by the arm
when the thumb is placed in the mouth.
As this is a very important effect of “thumb-
sucking” never hitherto pointed out, I think
it desirable to place this thing on record for
the benefit of other observers.—Brit. Med,
Journal.
	WHOOPING COUGH.—A writer in the
Medical Journal, London, states that in
cases of whooping cough in the last stage—


that is, after the third week—he has had
one ounce of the strongest liquid ammonia
put into a gallon of water in an open pan,
and the steam kept up by means of half a
brick made red hot throughout, and put in-
to the boiling water containing the ammonia,
the pan being placed in the middle of a
room, into which the patients were brought
as the ammonia steam was passing off. This
method, he says, was used in the evening,
before bed-time, and it proved so efficacious
in abating the spasmodic attack, and after
three or four days terminating the malady,
as to establish, beyond a doubt, the value
of this mode of inhaling ammonia as a thera-
peutic agent in tranquilizing the nervous
system in the whooping cough.
	BREAKFAST BEFORE WORK.—Always
take breakfast before leaving the house in
the morning. This will prevent an easy
and early tiring, while the testimony of ob-
servant farmers of education corroborates
the teaching of the best medical minds,
that by strengthening the stomach and
sending invigorating nutriment to the
whole system, weakened by the long fast
of the night, there is generated a power of
resistence against the onsets of disease from
the cold of winter and from the malarias
and miasms of summer, especially in flat,
damp, and luxuriant soils, which can not be
adequately expressed in language; while
both experience and experiment have com-
bined to show that, by the simple expedient
of an early breakfast, individuals and fami-
lies and neighborhoods have exempted
themselves from that scourge of all new
countries “fever and ague,” especially if
followed by a supper a little before sun-
down, from May to November.


WIFE, MISTRESS AND LADY.

Whoever marries for love takes a wife,
who marries for fortune takes a mistress,
who marries for a position takes a lady.
You are loved by your wife, regarded by
your mistress, and tolerated by your lady.
You have a wife for yourself, a mistress for
your house and friends, a lady for the world
and society. Your wife will agree with you,
your mistress will rule you, your lady will
manage you. Your wife will take care of
your household, your mistress of your house,
your lady of appearances. If you are sick,
your wife will nurse you, your mistress will
visit you, your lady will inquire after your
health. You take a walk with your wife, a
ride with your mistress, and go to a party
with your lady. Your wife will share your
grief, your mistress your money, your lady
your debts. If you are dead, your wife will
weep, your mistress lament, and your lady
wear mourning. Which will you have?


A STENTORIAN VOICE.—In the Grecian
army it was usual to have three men in each
battalion to communicate the commands of
the officers to the men—of these one car-
ried a standard, and another a trumpet. But
in the din and confusion of battle, when
neither signal could be seen nor trumpet
heard, the third man (who for this purpose
was the strongest in the army) communica-
ted the commands by word of mouth. Ho-
mer relates of one of these men, Stentor
by name, that he shouted as loud as fifty
other men. Hence a man with a powerful
voice is said to possess the voice of Stentor,
or a Stentorian voice.


PETITIONS for Woman Suffrage, to which
were attached 300,000 signatures, have been
presented to the British Parliament.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LETTER FROM CACHE.

			RICHMOND, Sept. 9th, 1873.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	Perhaps a few items from this place
would not be uninteresting to your readers.
	Sunday the 24th ult., a boy named Abra-
ham Eskelson was struck by lightning on the
right shoulder, which passed over his bowels,
down his left leg severely bruising him; his
left heel was so badly torn that Dr. Ormsby,
who was telegraphed for, considered ampu-
tation necessary. He died on the 27th.
The same day on which the above stated
accident occurred, Bp. Lunt and wife were
thrown from a wagon, his collar bone was
broken, and her face considerably bruised.
Dr. Ormsby jr. attended. The Sunday fol-
lowing, a boy named David Adams, who
lived across the street from Bro. Eskelson's,
was struck dead by lightning, and five
other boys were knocked down, but none
of them were injured. I have heard of
several other accidents by lightning having
recently occurred in this county. There is
considerable sickness in this place, but
through the blessings of God, very few
deaths. 
						P. A. M.


[Column 1]
	RULES OF CONVERSATION FOR
		    YOUNG LADIES.

	Young ladies are generally so ardent and
so incautious, that whatever is in their
thoughts and feelings will find vent in their
conversation; the vain, the proud, the envi-
ous, the suspicious, will each exhibit in it
her prevailing thought, and nothing but a
diligent “keeping of the heart” can correct
the evil.
	Supposing our young lady friends, then,
to be on their guard against the graver
errors of the tongue, such as direct false-
hood, misrepresentation, calumny, insinua-
tion, violations of confidence, and the like,
we would warn them against a few of the
lesser sins of young people, which, from
their very commonness, might escape their
notice in the earlier stages of self-discipline;
such as the love of ridicule, the spirit of ex-
aggeration, &c., which are so apt to pervade
the conversation of inexperienced girls, and
are often indulged in by them, without a
suspicion of their real nature and tendency.
The practice of turning into ridicule what-
ever does not please her in the appearance
or conduct of others, too often gains a
young lady the reputation of being a very
agreeable companion, and her lively sallies
are mistaken for wit; whereas, there is no
faculty of the mind, that can be cultivated
at a less expense of wit and wisdom; than
that of ridicule, and none that finds more
ready auditors; for the silliest can join in the
laugh which it raises, and the wisest can
hardly resist its infection.
	A sense of the ridiculous, is an original
faculty of the human mind; it is much
keener in some individuals than in others;
but it is like some plants, which, though
wholesome in themselves, are never admit-
ted into our gardens, because they spread
too rapidly, and root out what is far more
valuable. The love of ridicule grows by
indulgence, till it destroys the power of
discrimination, lessens the sensibility to
others’ pain, disturbs the balance of justice,
blunts all noble and generous feelings, and
gives a general taint of coarseness to the
whole character. There is nothing too inno-
cent or unobtrusive to be food for this mor-
bid love of fun; nothing too valuable or too
beautiful to be viewed in this false light;
nothing too high, and nothing too low, to

[Column 2]
minister to this diseased appetite; and the
pain which it often inflicts upon those who
are its innocent objects, is a small evil com-
pared with the immense injury it does to
the mind that entertains it. Besides the
evils already enumerated, the love of ridi-
cule indisposes the mind to find pleasure in
admiring, which is robbing it of one of its
noblest attributes. If you would taste the
full happiness of admiring all that is good,
and true, and beautiful, in the beings who
surround you, avoid the practice of ridicu-
ling them: for these cannot exist together.
	Equally common with the love of ridicule
is the spirit of exaggeration. How many
persons, who would be shocked at the idea
of telling a deliberate falsehood, yet daily
violate truth by exaggerated statements and
extravagant expressions. This fault often
shows itself in childhood, and has its origin
in the activity of the imagination, joined to
an imperfect knowledge of language; where
it is not early corrected, it grows with the
growth and strengthens with the strength,
and becomes one of the most incurable mala-
dies of the mind. By some, it is suddenly
assumed, as a means of making themselves
agreeable to their companions, or by way of
equalling them in their style of conversa-
tion. Now we would earnestly beg those
who are voluntarily adopting this habit of
speech, as they would learn an accomplish-
ment, to avoid it whilst it is yet in their
power, and to regard it in its true light, as
a sin against their fellow-beings and against
their own natures. It is a sin against our
fellow-creatures, because it lessens the con-
fidence necessary to social intercourse, and
because it leads to misrepresentation and
injustice. It is a sin against our own natures,
because it deadens the conscience, lessens
the reverence for truth, blunts that nice
perception by which we were intended to
see things as they really are, and accustoms
the mind to entertain distorted and inflated
visions of its own creating.
			[TO BE CONTINUED.]


﻿A HINT TO LOVERS OF FLOWERS.
A most beautiful and easily attained show
of evergreens may be had by a very simple
plan, which has been found to answer re-
markably well on a small scale. If geranium
branches, taken from luxuriant and healthy
trees, be cut as for slips, and immersed in
soap-water, they will, after drooping for a
few days, shed their leaves, put forth new
ones, and continue in finest vigor all winter.
By placing a number of bottles thus filled in
a flower basket, with moss to conceal the
bottles, a show of evergreen is easily insured
for the whole winter. All the different
varieties of the plant being used, the various
shapes and colors of the leaves blend into a
beautiful effect. They require no fresh
water.—“Floral Cabinet.”


﻿The theory of morality and religion
spread out in the Gospel, is not yet compre-
hended but by a few of the highest minds of
earth—“We aver.”—Neither will it be
while man seeks to destroy man.


﻿Boston School Committees are setting their
faces against presents from pupils to teach-
ers. It is an excellent movement, composed
as our public schools are of children of every
race and from all ranks. Such presents are
given by subscription, and a sum that would
be no tax on a rich man’s son might im-
poverish the child of a poor widow. The
custom leads to favoritism in schools and
educates the mind in favor of bribery and
corruption in later life.


FLOWERS.

	Happiness and peace flourish where
justice and reason govern.
	Never make a remark at the expense of
another; it is meanness.
	We should use the past as an oracle whose
voice should guide our actions in the future.
	"Moderation is the silken string run-
ning through the pearl chain of all virtues."
	The flowers of the soul, born of the sun-
shine of the heart, fill heaven with boquets
which never fade.
	Never part for a day without loving words
to think of during absence; it may be that
you will not meet again in life.
	Pleasure is perfect only when it har-
monizes with out permanent interests; no
delight can be enduring which interferes
with duty.
	Many speak the truth when they say that
they despise riches and  preferment possess-
ed by others.
	There is no policy like politeness, and a
good manner is the best thing in the world,
either to get a good name or to supply the
want of it.
	True religion shows its influence in every
part of our conduct; it is like the sap of a 
living tree, which penetrates the most
distant boughs.
	Learn to understand and properly respect
yourself, and you will know, without study-
ing farther, how to treat every body and
every thing around you.
	It is one of the first effects of prosperity
to make a man a vortex instead of a foun-
tain; so that, instead of throwing out, he
learns only to draw in.
	The difference between honor and honesty
seems to be chiefly the motive. The mere
honest man does that from duty which the
man of honor does for the sake of character.
	Witty sayings are as easily lost as the
pearls slipping off a broken string but a
word of kindness is seldom spoken in vain.
It is a seed which, even dropped by chance,
springs up into a flower.
	Nothing really succeeds which is not
based on reality; sham, in a large sense, is
never successful; in the life of the indi-
vidual as in the more comprehensive life of
the State, pretension is nothing and power
is everything.
	One may live as a conqueror, or a king, or
a magistrate, but he must die a man. The
bed of death brings every human being to
his pure individuality, to the intense contem-
plation of that deepest and most solemn of
all relations—the relation between the crea-
ture and his Creator.
	Childhood is like a mirror, catching and
reflecting images all around it. An impi-
ous or profane thought uttered by a parent's
lips may operate on a young heart like a
careless spray of water thrown upon a
polished steel, staining it with rust, which
no after-scouring can efface.
	One of the strong consolations which the
true Christian enjoys is derived from the
belief that an all-wise and merciful Provi-
dence is continually watching over him, and
directing the course of his temporal affairs,
in such a manner as shall make them all
ultimately work together for his good.


Squire—“Why, Pat, what are you doing
standing by the wall of a public house,
I thought you were a teetotaler.” Pat—
“Yes, yer honor; I'm just listenin’ to them
impenitent boys drinkin inside!”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PEN AND SCISSORS.
	A young lady recently married in Eng-
land received a magnificent bracelet with
the word "Mizpah" in rubies, emeralds,
diamonds and sapphires. The literal inter-
pretation is: "The Lord watch between
thee and me when we are absent one from
another." A more fitting motto for a happy
couple commencing life cannot well be con-
ceived.
	Bismarck recently showed some visitors
over his house, and pointing to a desk in
the Princes' room told them his wife, as
they might observe, kept the cash. He had
from the beginning entrusted her with the
charge of his money affairs while he attend-
ed to politics, and he would advise every
married man to do the same taking no more
than his wife gave him.
	Among the characteristics of woman, is
that sweet, motherly love,  which na-
ture has gifted her; it is almost indepen-
dent of cold reason, and wholly removed
from all selfish hope of reward. Not because
it is lovely, does a mother love her child,
but because it is a loving part of herself—
the child of her heart, a fraction of her own
nature. Therefore does she yearn over its
wailings; her heart beats quicker at its joy;
her blood flows most softly through her veins
when the breast at which it drinks knits
it to her.—Herder.
	An interesting anecdote is related of a
large dog kept in Algiers by Miss Emily
Napier, daughter of Sir William Napier.
This dog was sent every morning to fetch
bread from the baker's and regularly brought
home twelve rolls in a basket. At last it was
observed that for several mornings there
were only eleven rolls in the basket; and,
on watching the dog, he was found to stop
on his way and bestow one roll on a poor,
sick and starving lady-dog; hidden, with her
puppies, in a corner, on the road from the
shop. The baker was then instructed to
put thirteen rolls in the basket, after which
the dog delivered the twelve faithfully for
a few days, and then left all the thirteen in
the basket—the token, as it proved, that his
sick friend was convalescent, and able to
dispense with the charity.
	The observance of the following particu-
-lars seems to be essential to the intelligent
comprehension, not only of the Bible, but
any other book: First, ascertain who is the
person speaking; second, who is the person
spoken to; third, what are the circumstan-
ces under which the words were spoken,
and fourth, what was the obvious purpose
for which they were spoken or written.
All these particulars may be generally glean-
ed from a careful reading of the context.
This rule is so reasonable that it is universally
applied in reading books of men, and even
business and social correspondence; and by
the neglect of this common principle in the
reading of the Bible the gravest blunders
have been committed; and if, in the hands
of scoffers and imbeciles, has been made to
"prove everything" and to "contradict it-
self." A gentleman of my acquaintance,
in conversation with a person who read his
Bible in this desultory way—turning and
twisting it like a kaleidoscope—remarked
that, by his interlocutor's mode of reading
the Scriptures, it could be proven from them
that he ought to commit suicide. "How so?"
was the response. "Why," said the first,
"do you not read, 'and Judas went out and
hanged himself!' and do you not read also
'go thou and do likewise'?"


DIVERSIONS.
	A GUSHING Miss—The Mississippi.
	A COOL request—Please pass the ice.
	SOMEBODY defines flirtation to be atten-
tion without intention.
	A WOMAN'S modesty is like her color—ex-
ceedingly becoming it it is not put on.
	WHY do women talk less in February 
than in any other month? Because it is the
shortest month of the year.
	"MISS C—" said a gentleman one eve-
ning, "why are ladies so fond of officers?"
"How stupid!" replied Miss C—; "is it not
natural and proper that a lady should like a
good offer, sir?"
	TRAVELER (registering)—John Smith and
lady. Hotel clerk—"All right, sir, put you
in 114, the lady in 94." Traveler—"But
the lady is my wife, sir." Clerk—"Then
why didn't you say so?"
	WESTERN dealers in butter grade it as
"wool grease, cart crease, soap grease, va-
riegated, tessaleted cow-grease, boarding-
house breakfast, inferior tub, common tub,
medium roll, good roll, and gilt-edged roll."
	AN old veteran was relating his exploits
to a crowd of boys, and mentioned having
been in five engagements. "That's noth-
ing," broke in a little fellow, "my sister
Agnes has been engaged eleven times!"
	A YOUNG blacksmith wrote his advertise-
nent; stating that all orders in his business
would be promptly executed; but it came
out, "All others in this business will be
promptly executed." On seeing this fear-
ful notice, an old blacksmith threw up his
hands and exclaimed: "Has it come to this,
after thirty years of honest toil!"
	AT an exhibition of amateur theatricals,
when the Richard III of the evening cried,
"A horse! a horse! My kingdom for a 
horse!" a would-be wag called out, "Wouldn't
a jackass do just as well?" "Certainly," re-
sponded the actor; "please step up her im-
mediately." The interrupter hastily re-
tired.
	WHEN the train draws up at Stamford
five minutes for refreshments, it is easy to
distinguish the experienced traveler from
the rest. He has already got out on the plat-
form, and is either on the bottom step or
close enough to it. Just as soon as the
speed of the train becomes less than he can
make he springs off and dashes madly for
the saloon door, through it and up to the
counter, giving his order for coffee while
moving, and snatching up the right article
the first time. He knows just how much
time is required to make five minutes, and
when it is expired he is out on the platform
pickinghis teeth and talking about real es-
tate. Alas, for the inexperienced traveler
such is not his record. He is inside the car
when it stops, with twenty persons ahead of
him. He jumps down on the platform in
time to see the mass surging into the door
and just then it suddenly strikes him that
he may be too late and under this inspira-
tion he throws himself into the struggling
gang. He doesn't reach the table. He and
the other inexperienced travelers form the
outside line, and shout their orders through
the openings and receive what is handed
them with thankfulness and what dexterity
they can muster. Such a man will perspire,
and choke, and paw and jaw during the en-
tire five minutes, and in that time may get
down two-thirds of a sandwich, one-third of
a piece of custard pie, and more or less of
[Column 2]
the coffee, and then get out of the door just
in time to catch hold of the car-rail, and be
pulled on by the brakeman. And when he
has reached his seat and is scraping the rest
of that pie from his boot, and drawing cold
air into his throat to allay the pain of the
scald, he will think up things about the
keeper of that restaurant that would make
the hair on a saw-horse stand on end.—Dan-
bury News.


A LITTLE girl said of her ill-tempered
uncle: "he hasn't got a single laugh in his
face."


H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE & RETAIL FURNITURE DEALER.
		Largest Assortment in Utah.
He has removed his Furnitire from Main to his three
			storey Brick Store,
FIRST SOUTH ST., 1/2 BLOCK WEST OF CO-OP. CORNER.

H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largeest and purest stock of  confec-
tionary in Salt Lake City. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.

DOCTOR CROCKWELL
	Has had nearly 40 years experience in the treatment of
femal diseases, making their complaints a speciality. He
guarantees safe, easy and speedy relief in perilous cases,
without the unpleasant and dangerous use of instruments,
but with simple herbs.
	His rcnmedies frill the nuptial couch with bliss, surrounds
the heart with joyous ones and prevents their untimely ad-
vent.
	He refers to his numerous patrons for the last 10 years
inUtah.
	Residence near .the' streetcar track, 9th Ward, Fourth
East St., Salt Lake City.

				CLUB RATES
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the part
of the Publishers, to incrase the circulation of the
EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects contem-
plated in its publication, by making it truly an expo-
nent of the vicws of the women of Utah. sustained by
them, rcad by them, and its columns enriched with a
widely circulated expression of thclr thoughts we offer
the following liberal terms to clubs for the present vol-
ume:
10 copies, 1 ycar, with a copy to the getter up of  
	the club,		-	-	-	-	-		$18 00
l5 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club,		-	-	-	-	-		 20 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of 
	the club, and a framed steel engraving 12x16
	inches, of President Brigham Young, selling
	price, $2.50	-	-	-	-	-		34 00 
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of 
	the club, and a superior first proof steel en-
	inches, of President Brigham Young, selling
	graving of President BrighamYoung, hand
	somely framed, selling price $4	-	-	48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time, and additions
can be made after the first list of names has been sent.
Getters up of clubs shouhld notify us of their intentions
so that we can credit them with all names sent in.
	In all cases give the name and residence of each sub-
scriber, plainly and correctly written, with the time
when each subscription is to commence, and whether for
a whole or half year.
	Money can be remitted by rcgistered letter at the risk
of the publishers.
	Subscribers desiring the address changed from one
Post Officc to another should send us their former, as
well as their new address.
	We hope that agents and ladies throughout the Terri-
tory, especially Presidents and Officers of Relief Socie-
iles.will aid us by getting up clubs, by bringing the EX-
PONENT favorably to the notice of non-subscribers and
otherwise using their influence to increase its circula-
tion and usefulness.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

