VOL. 2. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 15, 1873. NO. 12


[Column 1]
		EDITORIAL NOTES.
	THE OPENING of a $200,000 theatre is the
way in which Louisville describes the
effects of the panic on her.
	THE CHEAPEST and most agreeable phy-
sic to be taken by people in general, is just
sufficient healthful bodily exercise.
	A NEW material for ladies’ dresses is a
fabric woven from bamboo fibres. That it
is “new” will be a sufficient recommend for
many.
	CONTINUED FAILURES in London, caused
by the financial disturbance in America,
show how much one portion of the world is
dependent on the other.
	THE DEATH of Mme. Felix, mother of
the great Rachel, is announced by Paris
newspapers. Well, she has gone the way
that all must go sooner or later.
	THREE WOMEN in Park County, Texas,
were recently hanged for horse stealing.
That looks like equality of rights, if male
horse thieves only get the same kind of
treatment there.
	IT IS not the superior possessions of a
man, that gives him power and influence,
but the use he makes of them.	Weak
minded men often accomplishe more good
than strong ones do.
	A BALLET girl of London recently died
from injuries received from her dress catch-
ing fire on the stage.	A recommendation
was sent to the manager to provide an addi-
tional supply of blankets at the sides of the
stage.
	A MAN pays twenty-five dollars, out here
in Utah, for beating his sister-in-law. The
woman thinks the outrage might be more
graciously endured for her part, if the
money for the fine, or even half of it, was
handed over to her.
	THR CHURCH yard, which contains the
grave of the “Dairyman’s daughter,” is on
the Isle of Wight, instead of the Isle of
Man, as appears in the last number of the
EXPONENT. The mistake was noticed too
late for correction in that issue.
	A WITTY lady got off a good joke re-
cently, on a quack doctor. He told her
that he had made arrangements for practis-
ing in the country; to which she replied, “I
am truly thankful for I have always had an
opinion that you needed practice.”
	THIS YEAR, the Indians of Red River,
Wisconsin, have raised 3,000 bushels of oats,
1,000 bushels of corn, 5,000 of potatoes,
2,000 of rutabages, and 3000 tons of hay.
Much better than has been done by,white
inhabitants in many cases, in different parts
of the country.
	THE EMPRESS of Austria has received a
set of costly jewelry, made in Rome, from
the King of Italy. He might have bestowed
such a present on others, more appreciative.
But kings don’t always seek how they may
put their means which is lent them to the
best use, more than do people of less conse-
quence. 
	JUDGE WITHEY in the Constitutional
Commission of Michigan, lately urged that
women should be eligible to any office for
which they were fitted, and the people were
[Column 2]
the proper judges as to fitness. A fact that
all men should be thoroughly convinced of
by this time; but it still appears some are
not.
	HER MAJESTY, Queen Victoria, has the
surplus bedding-out plants of her public
parks and gardens, distributed among the
working classes and poor inhabitants of
London. A better example than letting
them go to waste, or making the poor folks
pay for them, or take the chances of getting
them dishonestly.
	SCIENTIFIC EDUCATION is progressing
finely in some of the States. Mr. William
Wheelwright, of Newburyport, Massachus-
etts, lately deceased, bequeathed $200,000
to aid in the establishment of a scientific
school in that place; and Mr. Ario Pardee,
of Hazelton, Pa., has appropriated the large
amount of half a million dollars for a like
purpose. The world is increaing steadly
in knowledge and in wealth, and cities that
do not have scientific schools will soon be
behind the times.
	EMILY FAITHFUL of England, who a year
ago, spent some time in this country, ascer-
taining the real position of women of America,
by personal observation, and inquiry; warns
English women against the belief that the
equality of women has been fully recog-
nized here.	 And asserts the belief that
there is still opportunity for honorable rival-
ship in witnessing which country shall first
rate woman,s work at its true value. It is a
fine subject, and an important one, for a
race between England and America, if Miss
Faithful’s views on it are correct.
	THE FARMER'S Convention at Chicago
has adopted some strong resolutions, as the
result of its deliberations, of which the fol-
lowing is the prelude:	“The duty of a
government is to protect its people. Capital
directed by unscrupulous minds rcaps  the
profits of their labor. Men of great wealth
revel in luxury, while those who earned
the money are destitute of the comforts of
life.	 Our State Legislatures have made
laws depriving us of our land, for which we
have a title from the General Government,
for the benefiit of railroad companies be-
cause it seemed for the public good. Sub-
sidies have been granted them, and Congress
has with a lavish hand given them public
lands, the people’s inheritance, and the
result is extortion, oppression.” There is
much plain truth in the above; and as
resolutions were formed for appeals to be
made to Congress for redress, something of
a benificial nature for farmers may folIow.
	THE FOLLOWING simple sketch, will be
interesting to those who have marked the
judicious course, taken by her Majesty so far
during her entire reign. The latter portion of
the paragraph, portrays the real dignity and
constancy of a true woman and Queen, and
is another testimony of her Majesty’s super-
ior personal excellence:	“Queen Victoria’s
place at Osborne is her private property,
purchased by her and the Prince Consort
some thirty years ago. It contains about
5,000 acres of wood and farm land, and the
drives  through the parks and views are
charming. It is very rarely shown to the
public. Her Majesty and family while in
Osborne attend service every Sunday morn-
ing at Whippingham Church, an ugly little
[Column 3]
chapel built in the palace park by Queen
and Prince Albert. The royal pew, a large
inclosure, is plainly furnished with a row of
stiff chairs upholstered with blue velvet.
Her Majesty's seat differs from none of the
others, but is placed immediately under a
fine mural tablet to Prince Albert, erected
in memory of the best of husbands, “by his
broken-hearted widow, Queen Victoria.”
	THE “WOMAN'S Journal” of November
1st says:“The New Jersey abortion case,
exciting local public attention, recently,
displays the perils of modern society in a
warning light. A “clairvoyant,” Mrs. Metz-
ler kept a candy store near a public school
in Jersey City, and used her opportunities
of contact with young girls for the most im-
moral purposes. On her premises were
found bundles of letters in answer to an
advertisement of hers, most of them from
girls and of a most painful character. “The
victim in one instance was the daughter of
a printer’s widow, and was endeavoring to
support the rest of the family by working
for the Domestic sewing machine company
in New York at $8 per week. Her business
was to instruct buyers and agents how to
run the machine. The manager of the
department in which she worked, Alonzo E.
Kimball, is undoubtedly her seducer and
responsible for her death. Dr. J. E. Comins
of New York has been arrested as the medi-
cal felon. We hope the chief criminals will
experience all the severity of the law in its
freshest vigor.” If there are laws existing,
sufficiently severe, to deal justice to such
lawless, diabolical outrages of humanity, it
is time that they were put in force, more
rigorously than is generally the case in
such instances as that related above.
	WOMAN'S RIGHTS in Germany, are, ap-
parently working their way to complete
recognition in the most certain and effective
manner. We find the following on the
subject, in an exchange, which we deem
good enough to publish without comment:
“At Munich most of the clerks and book-
keepers in the banks are young and handsome
girls (although the latter is not an essential
qualification.) At the railway depots many
of the ticket-sellers are girls. At the “cafes”
all the cashiers are of the same sex. The
result has been that girls are found, as a
general rule more expert in mental arithme-
tic, in figures generally, than the men.
The Germans themselves assert that the
reason for the employment of girls  is that
the young men are too fast; that where they
don’t drink strong liquor (coffee, beer or
wine being the extent of their libations),
they devote the best part of the day to cafes
and beer saloons, playing billiards, chatting,
or studying the plates in the numerous
illustrated papers. By these habits they
totally unfit themselves for the staid pur-
suits of the office and counting-room, and
their places are being filled with girls, who
show a wonderful aptitude for these callings.
Throughout Germany, wherever females
can be employed, they are taken in prefer-
ence to young men. If the  experiment
should have the effort of widening the
sphere of Woman’s usefulness, and, as it
ought, shaming young men into better be-
havior, it will be one of the most valuable
lessons the decade has taught.”


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT


WATCH AND PRAY.

Temptation is so very strong
	And human will so weak,
That when we recognize a wrong
'Tis seldom we can pass along
With firm, unchanging cheek—
We e’en must pause to gaze awhile
	And canvass o’er the ill,
To mark its bright and beaming smile,
Until we cease to see its guile—
	Blind captives to its will.

Our good intentions profit not
	To keep us out of snares,
Unless we shun the fatal spot,
And keenly watch when foemon plot
	To take us unawares;
Nor can poor human will withstand
	The force of opposition,
Unless we invoke the mighty hand
Of Him who rules on sea and land
	To lend our strength addition.

Then watch and pray, Oh, watch and pray!
	Each day and every hour,
That we may keep our steadfast way
Toward perfection, day by day;
	Nor fail in moral power
To touch not, handle not a sin
	Though fangless it appears,
Till we the victor’s crown may win
And wear in triumph, ent’ring in
	Where dwell no doubts nor fears.
							LU DALTON.


[Column 1]
			﻿R. S. REPORTS.
	Meeting of the 11th Ward Retrenchment
Association, held October 30th, 1873, was
opened by singing, “Now let us rejoice,”
etc.,: prayer by Mrs. Hunt; singing, “We
thank thee O! God for a prophet.” Minutes
of the previous meeting were read and ac-
cepted. A portion of the Third Lecture on
Faith was read. Select reading by Counselor
S. Freeze, Miss Aggio Sprowl and Miss Re-
becca Muning. President Mary A. Freeze
then said: The editorial in the EXPONENT
on “Something New Wanted” has impres-
sed me very much. How true it is that we
are constantly wanting something new, yet
do not live up to half the counsels we have.
Let us be more earnest in our endeavors to
thoroughly learn our old lessons, that we
may be prepared for new ones; for the Lord
has them ready for us when we are ready
to receive them. What a comfort it is the
Lord will ovrelook our short comings, in-
asmuch as we have it in our hearts to do
His will. I should have given up in
despair long ago, had it not been for this
knowledge. President Young has said that
“If we do as near right as we know how,
we are as perfect as the angels.” But we
do not do this at all times. We allow our-
selves to get irritated and unnappy over
some little thing, when at the same time
we know we should have better control over
ourselves. Still we cannot become perfect
all in one day, but it takes constant striving for
the victory. I felt proud of the compliment
Sister Snow gave the Retrenchment girls at
the last meeting; that if she wanted any-
thing done that required energy and
reliability, they would be the ones she would
call upon. You can see by this what confi-
dence you have inspired already and it
should be an incentive to urge you on to
greater diligence. Let us be watchful, for
the Apostle says: “He that thinketh he
standeth let him take heed lest he fall.” I
have received a letter from our Secretary.
She says she misses the good meetings very
much. She also says tell the girls to appreci-
ate the great blessings they enjoy. I pray
that we all may be faithful and become
bright and shining lights in the Kingdom of
God.
	Sister Hunt said, I feel thankfnl. my
young sisters, to meet with you again; and
glad to see the same faces that attended a
year ago. This organization is calculated to
[Column 2]
benefit and instruct all that attend these
meetings. When I was young I had no one
to teach me as you have. You should also
be thankful have such a President as you
have, to teach and instruct you in the things
of life. I think of all the meetings I ever
attended these are the best. I pray the
Lord to inspire your hearts anew to go
ahead in this good work.
	Sister Cushion said those who have spoken
have borne my testimony. I also embraced
the Gospel for the love of the truth, and the
desires of my heart are to do right, though
I come far short sometimes. The moment
I stepped inside this door I could feel that
the Spirit of the Lord was here; I would
exhort you to be true to Retrenchment and
sustain and assist your President, and you
will surely become bright lights in this
kingdom.
	Miss Aggie Sprowl said We have had
many good instructions taught, and should
be thankful for them. I never enjoy my-
self as well at any other meetings as here and
at 14th Ward. Kindness is what we should
cultivate—think twice before we speak once
—and remember a soft answer turneth away
wrath. I feel to appreciate the labors of our
president. I cannot express my feelings
to-night. May the Lord help us to do right.
	Other remarks followed and meeting ad-
journed. Benediction by Miss J. Myras.


[Column 1]
		SKELETONIZING LEAVES.

	Some of our readers will be pleased with
the following directions, published in the
"Gardeners' Magazine," for making those
beautiful ornaments known as skeleton
leaves.
	Select the finest and most perfect speci-
mens, and soak them in a large deep vessel
of rain water; place it in a sunny spot or
other warm situation, and shake it occasion-
ally, but not sufficient to stir up the contents,
as that might injure the fibers of the leaves.
As the water evaporates, fill up with fresh
water again, without changing that which
remains. Be careful of using any chemi-
cal in order to assist decompositions as you
will thereby run great risk of injuring the
delicate skeleton, which of course you are
anxious to keep quite perfect. But if you
are impatient of waiting, a few drops of
muriatic acid would hasten the destruction
of the soft parts. The most usual plan,
however, is to soak the leaves in rain water
only, until the skin which envelops the
fiber is quite soft and loose, so that it can
be easily removed. The best plan for ac-
complishing this is to lay each one sepa-
rately in a plate full of water, and carefully
remove the soft parts with a needle, or
gently rubbing with the finger and thumb.
Of course, great care must be taken not to
break the skeleton; but with little practice
you will be able to do so easily. As soon as
the water thickens, so that you cannot well
see what you are about, change it, or you
will spoil your work. In some cases a piece
of soft flannel may be used with advantage;
but the final clearing of pulp from the fibers
must be performed by a camel's hair brush.
The time required for steeping them de-
pends upon a variety of circumstances, such
as the kind of a leaf, its age, the time of
year, the temperature of the weather, etc.
The leaves of the ivy and holly require soak-
ing for three or four months, while those of
the pear, apple, and poplar will be ready in
as many weeks; so that it will be necessary
for you to use your own judgement and dis-
cover the time each kind of leaf requires for
yourself by examining them occasonally.
Of course it will require some patience and
perseverance before "first-rate" skeletons
[Column 2]
can be obtained; but the task is not so diffi-
cult but that any one gifted with ordinary
patience and medium talent may be able
to produce very creditable specimens. The
vessel containing the water may be pretty
well filled with specimens, as they will not
injure each other unless shaken too rudely,
but perhaps rather assist in the process of
decomposition. It is not adviasable to use
any but full-grown leaves, as the delicate
fibers of the young ones are likely to decom-
pose with the pulp. The best time for
selecting them is therefore about July or
August, when they are quite mature, but
still vigorous. Great care must be taken
to choose only the most perfect, for it is
obvious that if any portion of the fibres are
injured before you macerated them, it will
be impossible to obtain a perfect specimen.
Hold your leaf then up to the light, and if
you can see a crack, or any small spots of
decay, throw it away, or your time and
trouble will be wasted. for when once the
skeleton is broken or otherwise injured, all
attempts to repair it will prove unavailing.
Those leaves which have the toughest fibers
are, of course, the best adapted for the pur-
pose, and consequently the soft leaves of
rapid growing plants are useless. Those
best adapted for the purpose, and which can
be obtained by everybody, are the leaves of
ivy, holly, magnolia, rose, pear, sycamore,
willow, oak, hawthorn, poplar, orange, and
lemon, the petals of hydrangea, and fruit
of the apple, thorn, and winter cherry.
Each kind of leaf has a peculiarity of struc-
ture and a beauty entirely its own, so that
the difference in the fiberous network, and
the variety and elegance of outline observa-
ble in the different subjects give to the
pursuit a great charm. The appearance of
the skeleton is greatly improved by bleach-
ing, which is accomplished by plunging in
spring water in which there has been dis-
olved some chloride of lime. Two table-
spoonfuls of liquid chloride to a pint of
water will suffice. In some cases the
skeletons will become white in a few min-
utes, but leaves of a stronger fiber will take
a much longer time. When well bleached,
dry them on blotting paper, and then
arrange them tastefully in a vase, and cover
the whole with a glass shade, when you will
possess a very elegant ornament for your
drawing-room or your boudoir. A shorter
method has been devised for preparing
skeleton leaves which occupies but a few
minutes, but is applicable only to those of
the toughest fiber as the process is somewhat
rough. It consists in drying the leaves be-
tween sheets of blotting paper, in a botanical
press, or under a weight; when quite dry,
place the leaf to be operated upon on a soft
pad and beat it with a brush until the pulp
is entirely separated from the fiber. Some
very good skeletons have been obtained in
this manner. A cushion and a clothes brush
will be sufficient for the first experiment
when, if the plan is approved, you can easily
devise means to carry it out properly.


JAY COOK, one of the prominent sufferers
from the financial crash, has a real heroine
for a wife, who promptly relinquishes her
dowery right to aid in meeting the pecuni-
ary liabilities of her husband. Though ac-
customed to luxury she will doubtless, find
more true pleasure in making this sacrifice,
than in the enjoyment of undisturbed
wealth.


﻿THE United States Senatorial Committee
on Elections and Privileges have drafted a
new amendment to the Constitution, provid-
ing a method of electing a President and
Vice-President directly by the people.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
	WE find the following in an exchange:
A standing antidote for poison by oak, ivy, 
etc., is to take a handful of quick lime, dis-
solve in water, let it stand half an hour, 
then paint the poisoned part with it.  Three
or four applications will never fail to cure.
	THE following suggestions of devices are
from a correspondent of the "Rural New
Yorker:"
	A WALL PROTECTOR to put behind a 
wash-stand, is made of pink cambrie, co-
vered with dotted muslin, gathered, and
sewed on; a hem an inch wide on the top
gives it a finish.
	FOR A HAIR-RECEIVER, I take a square
piece of perforated cardboard and work a 
pretty pattern with worsted; line it with
cambric; bind it on three sides with ribbon;
roll it so as it forms a horn of plenty; put a
bow at the top and bottom and it is com-
plete.
	I HAVE TOILET MATS made of white
Marseilles, braided with fine red braid and 
the edge embroidered with red cotton.
					H. T. G.
"Niagara Falls, N.Y."
	ARROWPOINT PUDDING.—Mix four table-
spoonfuls to a smooth batter with a half pint
of milk; put a pint of milk on the fire with a
lump of sugar, and when it boils, add the
batter, and keep stirring it till sufficiently
thick to leave the saucepan.  Pour it into a 
mould previously soaked in cold water, and 
when could it will turn out easily.
	BURNS, SCALDS, AND THEIR TREATMENT.
—Mix common kitched whiting with sweet
oil, or, if sweet oil is not at hand, with
water.  Plaster the whole of the burn and 
some inches all around with the above, after
mixing it to the consistency of common
paste, and lay it on an eighth, or rather more,
of an inch in thickness.  It acts like a 
charm: the most agonizing pain is in a few
minutes stilled.  Take care to keep the
mixture moist by the application from time 
to time of fresh oil or fresh water, and at
night wrap the whole part affected in gut-
ta-percha or flannel, to keep the moisture 
from evaporating.  The patient will in all 
probability, unless the flesh be much injured
and the burn be a very bad one, sleep
soundly.
	MATRIMONY TART.—Pare and core about
a half dozen nice-sized apples; put them
into a saucepan with a little water to keep
them from burning; boil them until you 
can pulp them (but do not forget to fre-
quenctly stir them), then add a quarter of a
pound of currants, two ounces of candied peel,
and enough sugar to sweeten it nicely; if
liked, also a little grated nutmeg.  Pour
this mixture into a large tart-tin or dish
that has previously been lined with a thin 
paste.  Then roll out another piece the same
size and thickness, which place over the 
top; press the edges together all round,
make a hole into the centre (the same as for 
mince-pies), and bake.  When apples are
plentiful this makes a pleasing chagne from
the ordinary routine of pies and puddings.
	COCOA-NUT CAKES.—Rasp a fresh cocoa-
nut on a grater, avoiding letting any of the 
brown rind in by holding it towards you;
spread it on a dish an dlet it dry gradually
for two days; add to it double its weight of
sifted sugar and the well-beated whites of
eight eggs, a teacupful of flour for every
pound; put the mixture into small dorp-tins
and bake in a very gentle oven for about 
twenty minutes.
	TO DYE DRIED FLOWERS.—Some of the
most beautiful ornaments for the interior of
[Column 2]
our dwellings are those of natural produc-
tion, such as shells, crystals, corals, minerals,
etc.  There ever has been a desire to retain
flowers during the whole winter; but what 
Nautre Witholds, Art in the many instances
partially supplies.  The gathering of grasses,
mosses, ferns, and certain flowers called
gnaphalium, or everlasting flowers, during
autumn, is a delightful occupation.  Then
comes the work of setting them up into 
various ornamental forms.  Most of the
grasses and several mosses dry of a somber
hue, though they retain their exquisite
form. to whiten, or bleach them, make a 
cone of paper, in which the flowers are to 
be placed, over a small piece of burning sul-
phur.  To dye them—red.  Carmine dis-
olved in a solution of cabonate of potash, or
carmine dissolved in ammonia: say, car-
mine, a quarter of an ounce; liqquid ammo-
nia, half an ounce; water, a quarter of a pint.
Blue.—Indigo, dissolved in sulphuric acid, 
and neutralized with whiting.  Yellow.
—A solution of turmeric spirits of wine.
Violet.—Archil and the above blue.  Lilac.
—Archil, in boiling water.  Green.—Dye
first light blue by diluting the above by one
half with water, and then use the yellow.
All these grasses, etc., are dyed by dipping
them into solutions of the above mixtures.
The colors may be brightened if the plants
be first dipped in water containing cream of
tartar, and dried.


﻿MAN AND WOMAN IN LOVE.

	"Every one must have noticed the great
difference, as a general thing, between the
conduct of the betrothed man and the young
betrothed woman," says a cute observer of
engagements among young people. "He,
the braver and stronger of the two, is
utterly confused and bashful, and seeks to
make a secret of the fact. She, on the con-
trary, tries to parade it, is proud of it,
assumes a certain air of proprietorship over
him, and offers to her friends little delicate
confidences as to how nice it is to be en-
gaged, and how dreadfully jealous he his
if she looks at anybody else. The cause of
this is just one thing—the man is in love
the woman is not. I have studied human
nature, have looked into the depth of hearts;
I have made man and woman the study of
my life, and I aver that the girl in love is
rarer than a black rose. She simply has for
her lover the same feeling that the young
mother has for her babe. She has an
anxious desire to see him for life, to make
sure that he is comfortable, that he is in
love with her, and rejoices in the knowledge.
The idea of losing his love is madness to
her, but of herself she does not understand
it. A woman who is not selfish and greedy
and mean, who can have her fine clothes and
a grand establishment, overflows with the
mother's feeling all her life. She expands 
it on her dolls in childhood, on her poodle
or her kitten, or her canary; and afterward,
when the time arrives, on her lover. Many
a man would lose a great deal of his conceit
and vanity if he knew just how the girl
whom he supposed to be in love with him
really felt. She, also, would be surprised to
hear that she was not in love ar all, but only
delighted to have some one in love with
her."


----
MAN AND WOMAN IN LOVE.
	"Every one must have noticed the great
difference, as a general thing, between the
conduct of the betrothed man and the young
betrothed woman," says a cute observer of
engagements among young people. "He,
the braver and stronger of the two, is
utterly confused and bashful, and seeks to
make a secret of the fact. She, on the con-
trary, tries to parade it, is proud of it,
assumes a certain air of proprietorship over
him, and offers to her friends little delicate
confidences as to how nice it is to be en-
gaged, and how dreadfully jealous he his
if she looks at anybody else. The cause of
this is just one thing--the man is in love
the woman is not. I have studied human
nature, have looked into the depth of hearts;
I have made man and woman the study of
my life, and I aver that the girl in love is
rarer than a black rose. She simply has for
her lover the same feeling that the young
mother has for her babe. She has an
anxious desire to see him for life, to make
sure that he is comfotable, that he is in
love with her, and rejoices in the knowledge.
The idea of losing his love is madness to
her, but of herself she does not understand
it. A woman who is not selfish and greedy
and mean, who can have her fine clothes and
a grand establishment, overflows with the
mother's feeling all her life. She expends
it on her dolls in childhood, on her poodle
or her kitten, or her canary; and afterward,
when the time arrives, on her lover. Many
a man would lose a great deal of his conceit
and vanity if he knew just how the girl
whome he supposed to be in love with him
really felt. She, also, would be surprised to
hear that she was not in love at all, but only
delighted to have some one in love with
her."


----
     ﻿MAN AND WOMAN IN LOVE.

	“Every one must have noticed the great
difference, as a general thing, between the
conduct of the betrothed man and the young
betrothed woman,” says a cute observer of
engagements among young people. “He,
the braver and stronger of the two, is
utterly confused and bashful, and seeks to
make a secret of the fact. She, on the con-
trary, tries to parade it, is proud of it,
assumes a certain air of proprietorship over
him, and offers to her friends little delicate
confidences as to how nice it is to be en-
gaged, and how dreadfully jealous he his
if she looks at anybody else. The cause of
this is just one thing—the man is in love
the woman is not. I have studied human
nature, have looked into the depth of hearts;
I have made man and woman the study of
my life, and I aver that the girl in love is
rarer than a black rose. She simply has for
her lover the same feeling that the young
mother has for her babe. She has an
anxious desire to see him for life, to make
sure that he is comfortable, that he is in
love with her, and rejoices in the knowledge.
The idea of losing his love is madness to
her, but of herself she does not understand
it. A woman who is not selfish and greedy
and mean, who can have her fine clothes and
a grand establishment, overflows with the
mother’s feeling all her life. She expends
it on her dolls in childhood, on her poodle
or her kitten, or her canary; and afterward,
when the time arrives, on her lover. Many
a man would lose a great deal of his conceit
and vanity if he knew just how the girl
whom he supposed to be in love with him
really felt. She, also, would be surprised to
hear that she was not in love at all, but only
delighted to have some one in love with
her.”


THE PARK Hill Female Seminary, at
Tahlequah, the capital of the Cherokee
Nation, which has for years been closed,
is now re-opened with fair promises of suc-
cess, and with Miss Ella M. Noyes as
superintendent. A very agreeable “Noyes”
will that talented young lady make in her
new occupation, without doubt.


﻿FRIDAY.

	From time immemorial Friday has been
frowned upon as a day of ill-omen; and,
though this prejudice is less prevalent now
than it has been in days of yore, when
superstition had general sway, yet there
are many, even in this matter-of-fact age of
ours, who would hesitate, on a day so in-
auspicious, to begin an undertaking of
momentous import. And now many brave
mariners, whose hearts unquailed could
meet the wildest fury of their ocean home,
would blanch to even bend their sails on
Friday! But, to show with how much
reason this feeling is indulged, let us ex-
amine the following important facts in
connection with our settlement and great-
ness as a nation, and we will see how little
cause we Americans have to dread this
fatal day:
	On Friday, August 3d, 1492, Christopher
Columbus sailed on his great voyage of dis-
covery.
	On Friday, October 12th, 1492 he first
discovered land.
	On Friday, January 4th, 1493, he sailed
on his return to Spain, which, if he had not
reached in safety, the happy result which
led to the settlement of this vast conti-
nent would never have been known.
	On Friday, March 15th, 1493, he arrived
safely at Palos.
	On Friday, November 22d, 1493, he ar-
rived at Hispaniola on his second voyage to
America.
	On Friday, June 13th, 1494, he, though
unknown to himself, discovered the conti-
nent of America.
	On Friday, March 5th, 1496, Henry VIII.
of England, gave to John Cabot his com-
mission, which led to the discovery of North
America. This is the first American state
paper of England.
	On Friday, September 7th, 1584, Melen-
dez founded St. Augustine—the oldest set-
tlement in the United States by more than
forty years.
	On Friday, November 10th, 1620, the
Mayflower, with the Pilgrims, made the
harbor of Provincetown; and on the same
day was signed that august compact, the
forerunner of our glorious constitution.
	On Friday, December 22d, 1620, the
Pilgrims made their final landing on Ply-
mouth rock.
	On Friday, February 22d, 1732, George
Washington, the father of American free-
dom, was born.
	On Friday, June 16th, 1775, Bunker Hill
was seized and fortified.
	On Friday, June 7th, 1776, in Congress,
a motion was made by John Adams, and
seconded by Richard Henry Lee, that the
United Colonies were, and of right ought to
be, free and independent.
	On Friday, October 7th, 1777, the surren-
der of Saratoga was made, which had such
powerful influence in inducing France to
declare for our cause.
	On Friday, September 22d, 1780, the trea-
son of Arnold was laid bare, which saved.
	On Friday, October 19th, 1781, occurred
the surrender of Yorktown—the crowing
glory of the American arms.
	Thus, by numerous examples, we see
that, however it may be with other nations,
Americans need never dread to begin any
understaking on Friday, however important
or momentous it may be.


ELECTRICTIY is now used in Scotland for
blasting purposes, and five thousand tons of
granite were recently displaced at Kemnay
by one shock from a battery.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

[Column 1]
		        THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT

  		     L.GREENE RICHARDS, EDITOR.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Miss Cornelia H. Horne, Business Manager. Office hours
from 9 to 12 a. m., and from 2 to 5 p. m., on Mondays and
Fridays.
	Address all business communications to
					Publishers WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
								 Salt Lake City, Utah.

			SALT LAKE CITY, Nov. 15, 1873.

		AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS.

					 AGENTS.
					Salt Lake City.
[Column 1]
Mrs. Zina D. Young, 		
" Margt. P. Young,			
" Lily Staines, 			
" Sarah Smith,				
" Mary J.  Thomson,			
" Margaret Steel,			

[Column 2]
Mrs. Elvira Barney,
" Amanda Kimball
" Elizabeth Davis,
" Hampton, 16th
	Ward
" Sarah E. Smith
			Miss Sarah E. Russell.
			CORRESPONDENTS.
[Column 1]
Mrs. Laura Miner, 			
" A.B. Smith.			

[Column 2]
Mrs. E. B. Wells,
Miss Mary E. Cook
		          	AGENTS
		     	 Weber County,
"	A. M. Frodsham, Ogden
			Oncida County, Idaho.
	Mrs. Orissa Allred, St. Charles,
	" Mary Rich, Paris.
			Rich County.
	" Ann E. Cook, Swan Creek.
			Cache County.
	" M. A. Maughan, Logan,
	" Jane S. Coleman, Smithfield.
			Box Elder County.
	" Harriet Snow, Brigham City.
			Davis County.
	" Ann Clark, Farmington,
	" Aurelia Rogers,	"
	" Margaret Randall, Centerville,
	" Elizabeth Barlow, Bountiful,
	" Susan Grant, 	"
	" Sylvia Clark,	"
[Column 2]
			Salt Lake County.
	  "	––––Higgins, West Jordan,
	  "	Barbara Moses, agent & cors. Big Cot-
			tonwood.
				Utah County.
	  "	––––Brown, Pleasant Grove,
	  "	Ann Bringhurst, Springville,
	  "	––––Harrison,			    "
	  "	Margaret T. Smoot, Provo City,
				Juab County.
	  "	Amelia Goldsbrough, Nephi.
	  "	Ann Pitchforth,		
	  "	Martha J. Coray, agent & cor., Mona,
			      Sanpete County.
	  "	M. A. P. Hyde, agent & cors. Spring
			City,
	  "	Sarah Peterson, Ephraim,
	  "	Helena Madison, Gunnison.
				Millard County.
	  "	Delilah Oleson, Fillmore,
	  "	Belinda M. Pratt,	"
Miss Mary Callister,	"
				Beaver County.
Mrs. Ruth Tyler, Beaver,
	  "	L. B. Pratt, agent & Cors.
				  Iron County.
	  "	Mary Weimer, Parowan,
Miss Josephine Smith, 	"
				   Kane County.
	Mrs. Sophia Parker, Kanarra,
	  "	Mary Ann Lunt, agent & cors.
			Cedar City.
			     Washington County.
	  "	Caroline Jackson, agent & cors.
			St. George,
	  "	Elizabeth Canfield, Washington.


SPLINTERS.

	Seven lives were destroyed by a late
prairie fire near Omaha......Memphis has
received $15,000 donation from Cincinnati.
......The cashier in the Treasury Department
of Albany, has robbed the State of $300,000,
to speculate on Wall street......The ladies of
Portland, Me., have been signing petitions
to the Governor in favor of Woman Suffrage.
......A melon growing on a cucumber vine
is one of the latest curiosities in the vege-
table kingdom......A sassafras tree 120 feet
high, 50 feet to the lower branches, is a
novelty in Painsville, Ohio......Less hours
of work on the farm, less produce and
higher prices for it, is the talk of some
Western farmers.........Eighteen thousand
Americans went abroad this year......Jet
ornaments have again come in favor with
the fashionable.........Paris has 150,000 pau-
pers......The theatre of Strasburg, destroyed
by the bombardment in 1870, has been re-
built and reopened......The old Mexican
General, Don Antonio Lopez De Santa
Anna, is passing a miserable life in com-
plete poverty, having sunk from opulence.
......There is a literary society in the
Maryland Inebriate Asylum, named after
Oliver Wendell Holmes......Miss Sarah E.
Fuller of New York has received an award
of merit from the Vienna Exposition for
excellence in wood engraving......Mrs.
Eliza H. Hill has been held in $5,000 bonds
at Worcester, Massachusetts, for shooting
her husband......Memphis is better and her
nurses from New Orleans have gone home.
......The "State Journal" office, of Harris-
burg, Pennsylvania, was lately burned, loss
$100,000......White sealskin is a new fur
which promises to be much worn.........The
prize fighters, Heenan and Sayers, have
both died of consumption.........The well
known English author, Sir Henry Holland
is dead......Parties engaged in a politico-
religious conspiracy have been ordered
arrested by the Russian Government......
A panic lately occurred on the Bourse in
Vienna, and the Government is trying to
settle the financial dicffiulty......The Carlists
are reported to have fired on a Spanish
man-of-war and killed one of the crew......
News from France indicate closer approah
to monarchy.........A Chicago negro wife
murderer, named Andrew J. Peetet, has
been sentenced to be hanged.........Stokes
has been convicted of manslaughter and
sentenced to four years imprisonment and
hard labor.


USELESS WORK.

			BY G. R. B.

	I have come to the conclusion that it is a
peculiarity of the feminine mind never to
be really happy unless burdened with tasks
so numerous as to fill every hour of the day.
Else why is there so much superfluous work
continually being done. Take, for instance,
patchwork quilts. Many people innocently
suppose that because white counterpanes are
cheaper and prettier, patchwork has fallen
into disuse, and is indeed become one of the
lost arts, but I can assure them that in the
country it still flourishes. Not only are bits
of material, left from garments made, cut
into minute fragments and sewed together
again in geometrical patterns and wonderous
devices, but yards of new material are used
up in the same way. This work, together
with a great amount of labor and time con-
sumed in the quilting, produces an article
not one-half as pretty as white counterpanes
which cost but little money, and no time or
labor before they are ready for use.


Then the sewing! The flounces overlay
my skirts, the ruffles overlay my flounces,
the trimming of the edges of all, and the
tucks filling every inch of space, so that a
well-made and perfectly plain garment would
be refreshing, and resting to our tired eyes.
See the amount of unnecessary work done
by women who strive to attain and main-
tain a reputation for superlative housekeep-
ing. Neatness, like all other virtues, be-
comes a vice when carried to excess. The
wearing away of floors; tables, chairs, wood-
work, and all kitchen utensils, by the
continual scrubbing of that which was al-
ready perfectly clean—who can account for
this, except by the love of work for its own
sake rather than for its results?
	Then the worse than useless cooking.
When bread and butter are well made,
meats, vegetables and fruits skillfully pre-
pared for the table, it must be a depraved
appetite that would long for pies, cakes and
preserves.
	To repeat the idea with which I com-
menced: I believe if there should come to
our busy MARTHAS an afternoon in which
there would be nothing at all to be done—
the house in perfect order from garret to
cellar—no sewing to do, not even a letter to
write—they would be restlessly unquiet
and finally miserable before the happy hour
when they could again take up the burden
by getting supper.


HINTS TO YOUNG MARRIED PEOPLE.

	The following paragraph is worthy the careful
perusal of any woman who is seeking, or ever
intends, to honestly fulfil the calling of a wife:
	"The true girl has to be sought for. She
does not parade herself to show her goods. She
is not fashionable. Generally she is not rich.
But. oh! what a heart she has when you find
her! So large and pure and womanly. When
you see her you wonder if those showy things
outside were women. If you gain her love,
your two thousands are millions. She'll not
ask you for a carriage or first-class house.
She'll wear simple dresses, and turn them
when necessary with no vulgar magnificent
frown upon her economy. She'll keep eveyr-
thing neat and nice in your sky parlor, and
give such a welcome when you come home
that you'll think your parlor brighter than
ever.  She will entertain true friends on a dol-
lar, and astonish you with the new thought of
how little happiness depends on money. She will
make you love home, and teach you how to
pity, while you scorn a poor fashionable society,
which thinks itself rich and vainly tries to
think itself happy."
	Young wife, reflect, if the husband whom
you love so much has found that true girl in
you; and if you can satisfactorily answer your-
self that indeed he has, be thankful for the
noble disposition of which you are possessed,
and endeavor to throw beams of light in the
way of others who may be less fortunate.
	Then, there is another side to the picture.
There is the true man to find as well as the
true girl. And quite as rarely does he make an
appearance amid the ranks of fashionable so-
ciety. But when you do find him, young lady,
the vexatious and trials of married life, against
which so many warnings are given, are so
limited in your case that you will never need
to join your stories of sad experience and human
wrongs with the many that are daily told.
Nothing that would prove a comfort in the
slightest degree to his wife, is too small for the
true man to think of and attend to for her sake.
And no necessary task is too great for him to
undertake, for her convenience and happiness.
He kindly appreciates and encourages all the
efforts of the true girl to make their home a


paradise; and warmly reciprocating, tries with
her to keep everything neat and orderly, that
both may have time for enjoyment and mental
improvement. He will not absurdly imag-
ine that with no pains-taking on his part, it is
an easy thing for his wife to keep articles of
use in their proper places; that it is her duty
alone and not his in the least, to think of and
look after all these things. But when a thought
occurs to his mind, of some little improvement
that might be made in the domestic arrange-
ments, he pleasantly suggests the same to her,
never thinking to find fault or seek to govern
where his rights do not extend. Thus the true
man and the true girl are mutually and con-
tinually blest with the love and confidence and
assistance of each other, where fortune has
kindly brought them together.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN SUFFRAGE.

	We cheerfully give place to the following
summary and resolutions which appear in the
"Woman's Journal," of Oct. 25th, with a re-
quest to each newspaper in the United States
o republish them.

			SUMMARY.

	The American Woman Suffrage Association
held a very successful Anniversary and An-
nual meeting in New York and Brooklyn, Oct.
13th and 14th. The Convention was large. The
proceedings were spirited and harmonious.
Great enthusiasm prevailed. Col. T. Went-
worth Higginson presided and made the open-
ing address. Letters endorsing the movement,
were read from Hon. George Wm. Curtis, Wm.
Lloyd Garrison, Lydia Maria Child, Elizabeth
Stuart Phelps, Louisa M. Alcot and others.
Eighty-six delegates were present, representing
organized societies in fourteen States and Ter-
ritories. The Annual Report shows that Woman
Suffrage is established and works well in Wyo-
ming and Utah, that it was under discussion
last winter, in 21 State Legislatures, and received
a majority vote in those of Maine, Iowa and
Michigan. Written reports were read from 17
States. Julia Ward Howe was elected Presi-
dent for the ensuing year; Lucy Stone, Chair-
man Executive Committee. Among the Vice
Presidents at Large are Vice President Henry
Wilson. Hon. George Wm. Curtis, Senator Sar-
geant, Wm. Lloyd Garrison and Col. Higgin-
son. The Resolutions adopted are as follows.
	
			RESOLUTIONS.

	RESOLVED, That the primary aim of the
American Woman Suffrage Association is to
secure the ballot for woman; while it includes,
it its general aim, the establishment of her
equality of rights in all directions.
	RESOLVED, That one-half of the adult popu-
lation of the United States who are legally
entitled to hold property, who are assessed for
taxes and punishable for crime and whoes in-
terest in the Commonwealth is in no respect
less than that of the other half, should not be
deprived  of an equal voice in the government.
	RESOLVED, That a government of the people
must be a government composed equally of men
and women, inasmuch as the equal co-opera-
tion of the sexes is essentially alike to a happy
home, a refined society, a Christian church and
a Republican State.
	RESOLVED, That our present political system
is not fairly representative, even of men, being
largely controlled in the primary meetings by
rings of trading politicians intent on private
gain; that political reform must enlist a more
general interest on the part of the people in the
management of public business; and that this
would be greatly promoted by combining the
social co-operation of women in the primary
meetings, at the polls, and in the halls of legis-
lation.
	RESOLVED, That we advise the friends of
Woman Suffrage in every locality to promote
the Movement morally and politically, by or-
ganizing local societies, for circulating tracts
and newspapers, for holding public meetings,
and especially for helping to elect the friends
of Suffrage and to defeat its enemies.
	RESOVLED, That the Woman Suffrage Move-
ment, like every other reform of the Age, la-
ments the loss and honors the memory of its
most powerful advocate, John Stuart Mill.


[Column 1]
		A VISIT TO OGDEN.

	On the 30th of October, accompanied by Mrs.
B. W. Smith and Mrs. P. Woodruff, in response
to an invitation from President Mrs. J. S. Rich-
ards, I met with a large assemblage of the
Relief Society, in the Tabernacle in Ogden
City. While viewing the numerous congrega-
tion, which was principally composed of ladies,
with faces beaming with expressions of happi-
ness, and intelligence, the thought forced itself
upon my mind, that, if those meddlesome per-
sons who are making piteous moans over the
"poor, oppressed women of Utah," could take
one unprejudiced look at the imposing, interest-
ing and cheery sight presented in this Taberna-
cle, they would henceforth and forever, withhold
the pusillanimous sympathies they so lavishly
waste in our behalf.
	The Prof. Monch, yielding to the interests of
the Society, dismissed his school at an unusual
hour, to give his many young lady students an
opportunity of attending the meeting, is a cir-
cumstance worthy of note.
	It was a most interesting sight, and every
eye was riveted to the beautiful procession, as
in double file, these young ladies marched
down one of the long aisles of the Tabernacle,
and with modest dignity took seats reserved
for them nearly in front of the stand, which was
occupied by President F. D. Richards and
other prominent gentlemen including Prof.
Monch, (after conducting his corps of students
to the entrance) President Mrs. Richards and
her efficient Board, Mrs. P. Kimball, Mrs. Pix-
ton and other prominent ladies, and, of course,
your honored correspondent.
	I regret my inability to give the number of
the young ladies—my admiration was too ab
sorbing for numericals. They were all dressed
neatly and tastefully, without exhibiting any
of those exuberances of style, at war with gen-
teel figure and graceful bearing; while their
countenances glowed with health, beauty and
happiness, and their strictly attentive manner
during the meeting, manifested a power of
noble intellect and moral feeling, indicating
that they realized that they too, had an interest
in the progress of the great work of womanly
development.
	After the close of the meeting, sisters Smith
and Woodruff returned home—I stayed the next
day, which I spent with much pleasure and profit
to myself, and trust, with some, to others. In
connection with other calls, sister Richards and
I visited Professor Monch's school, in a com-
modious room neatly fitted up with furniture
imported from the East. The teacher and
students, all seemed happy, and our interview
was exceedingly interesting. After other exer-
cises, we were entertained with music on the
piano, and songs by the pupils. We could see
at a glance that, "order, heaven's first law,"
reigned in that Institution. Not with tyrannical
sway, where "power is might, and force de-
cides," but a government wielded by kindness,
and clothed with the mantle of love.
	It will be gratifying to those interested in
human progress, to hear that Prof. Monch is
establishing a class of young ladies, in the all
important, and much neglected study of Physi-
ology.
	I was much pleased to learn that two, at least,
of this class, design to obtain a thorough classi-
cal education, to qualify themselves for the
medical profession. I say, success to them, as
well as to all those in Salt Lake City and else-
where, who are studying for the same object.
	In the afternoon we visited the branch of the
Relief Society in Riverdale, presided over by
Mrs. Bingham, and had a pleasant time.
	For the encouragement of my sisters who are

[Column 2]
nobly applying their efforts to benefit humanity
in every laudable manner, let me assure them
that they have co-workers, who are alive to the
interests of the great cause of Zion, both in
Ogden and vicinity.
					ELIZA R. SNOW.


﻿HOME AFFAIRS.

	A LARGE iron manufacturing company has
been lately organized with a capital of $250,000,
the works of which will be located in Ogden.
	WE WOULD again call attention to the list of
agents which appears in our columns, and again
solicit additions to it, from settlements not re-
presented therein.
	BRO. ISAAC Laney died on the 31st ult., the
thirty-fifth anniversary ot the massacre at
Haun's Mill, Missouri, where he was brutally
wounded by the mob.
	AN APPEAL to the Territorial Teacher's As-
sociation, which has appeared in the daily
papers, has unintentionally been crowded out
of our present issue, but will be given space in
our next.
	SEVERAL SERIOUS accidents have lately oc-
curred in and about some of the mines in this
Territory; among which we note with much
regret, the loss of an eye, and other severe in-
juries to Mr. Ben Hampton, while he was
blasting in the Chicago mine in Davis kanyon.
	ANOTHER PETITION in the form of a memo-
rial has been produced by the "Mormon Eat-
ers," praying Congress to pass laws for the
correcting of evils among the "Mormons." An-
other death and funeral will likely follow, and
then another resurrection in some other form.
	UTAH HAS never known a more glorious In-
dian Summer, than that which has hung about
her hills and valleys for the last three weeks, and
if ever her majestic beauty and graceful loveli-
ness, were calculated to inspire the artist or the
poet with "thoughts sublime," it has been since
the middle of last month until the present
time. Travelers who visit this Territory dur-
ing this delightful season of the year, may con-
sider themselves exceedingly fortunate in their
choice of time for "doing" our "Mountain
Home."


LOVE OF THE BEAUTIFUL.

	Place a young girl under the care of a
kind-hearted, graceful woman, and she un-
consciously to herself, grows into a graceful
lady. Place a boy in the establishment of a
thorough-going, straightforward business
man, and the boy becomes a self-reliant,
practical business man. Children are sus-
ceptible creatures, and circumstances and
scenes and actions always impress. As you
influence them, not by arbitrary rules, nor
by stern example alone, but in a thousand
other ways that speak through beautiful
forms, pretty pictures, etc., so they will
grow. Teach your children then to love the
beautiful. If you are able give them a
corner in the garden for flowers; allow them
to have their favorite trees; teach them to
wander in the prettiest woodlets; show
them where they can best view the sunset;
rouse them in the morning, not with the
stern "Time to work," but with the en-
thusiastic, "See the beautiful sunrise!" Buy
for them pretty pictures, and encourage
them to decorate their room in his of her
childish way. Give them an inch, and they
will go a mile. Allow them the privilege,
and they will make your home pleasant and
beautiful.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿	YOU KISSED ME.

	The following poem, remarkably beautiful 
and full of passion, was addressed by a young
woman to a young man to whom she was en-
gaged to be married. The wedding was ap-
pointed, at 8 o'clock P. M. and the expectant
bridegroom suddenly died at 6 P. M. only two
hourse before the time fixed for his marriage.
Miss — was never married; but refused
repeated subsequent offers.

You kissed me! My head drooped low on your breast,
With a feeling of shelter, and infinite rest-
While the holy emotion my tongue dared not speak,
Flushed up like a flame from my heart to my cheek.
Your arms were around me.-Oh, your arms were so
	bold,
Heart beat against heart in their passionate hold!
Your glances seemed drawing my soul through my
	eyes,
As the sun draws the mist from the earth to the skies;
And your lips clung to mine, till I prayed, in my
	bliss;
They should never depart from that passionate kiss.

You kissed me! My heart, and my breath, and my
	will.
In delirious joy for a moment stood still!
Life had for me then no temptation---no charms----
No vista of pleasure outside of your arms!
And were I this instant and angel, possessed
Of the glory and peace that belong to the blest,
I would cast my white robes unrepiningly down,
And dash from my forehead its heavenly crown,
To nestle once more in that haven of rest,
With your lips upon mine, and my head on your breast. 

You kissed me! My sould, in a transport divine.
Reeled and swoomed like one drunken and maddened
	with wine!
And I thought 'twere delicious to die thus---if death
Would come while my mouth was yet moist with
	your breath;
'Twere delicious to die if my heart could grow cold
While your arms wrapt me round in that passionate
	hold!
And these are the questions I ask day and night---
Must my life taste but once such ecstatic delight--
Would you like, if your breast was my shelter as then,
And if you were here---would you kiss me again? 
									MATTIE.
	In the "Ladies' Floral Cabinet."


[Column 1]
					[For the EXPONENT.
	TAKE CARE OF THE BOYS.
Exponent L. B. W.
	Throughout the length and breadth of the
land the cry is, Mother’s, instruct your
daughters, make them fit for wives and
mothers.” But I would say also, while you
bestow so much time and thought upon
your girls, be sure you do not neglect or
forget your boys. They too, require your
gentle, loving care; do not give them up
entirely to their father, when they done
their first suit of male attire. Teach them
to feel they still belong to you, and must
give you a correct account of their time and
actions, and look to you for advice and coun-
sel; let them know that you love them as
well as their sisters. Let them play in the
house and in the yard; what if they do wear
out your carpets and mar your furniture, is
that any comparison to their worth?
	Do not be afraid they will be unmanly if
they associate freely with you and their
sisters; they will be more refined, more
courteous, and make better husbands and
fathers for it.
	It is seldom you see a case, where there
is an only son, brought up among many
sisters, and partaking freely of their influ-
ence, but he makes an exceptional man.
	Mothers cling to your boys, do not send
them out from you, to see, hear and learn
all the evils that prevail in this fast age, be-
fore their minds are capable of comprehend-
ing right from wrong. Try and put up with
their noise, it will be easy to bear compared
with their faults (and sins may be) if they
are allowed to roam at large. Be just as
careful in choosing companions for them as
for your girls; remember impressions made
in early youth stamp perceptibly the after
[Column 2]
﻿life—teach them to fear God, to honor His
laws and His servants; do not allow them
to fish and hunt and roam about on the
Sabbath day, while you and your daughters
dress yourselves with care and go to the
House of Worship.
	Boys must have their clothes made and
mended as well as girls; do not get out of
patience because they are so destructive,
and cannot darn their own socks or sew
on their buttons; their sphere is a different
one; they must perform more arduous labor;
on them eventually rests the fate of the
nation. Then if you would have the right
of women respected, teach your boys to love
and respect their mothers! Let them see
your earnestness and devotion to them, and
recognize their rights and privileges at
home, and you will be almost sure to do it
effectually. I contend, boys have as much
right in the parlor as girls; if they are not
permitted free access to the parlor at home
when little boys, how will they conduct
themselves there when they become young
men?
	How often have I heard mothers say, “I do
not trouble about my little boys, when they
are out of sight; they can take care of them-
selves,” forgetting that the tempter is al-
ways ready to ensnare the innocent and
unwary; that they may contract habits
which will totally unfit them for positions
they might otherwise occupy!
	Do not understand me that I exclude
the father from his jurisdiction—far from it.
But it is the mother who experts the most
abundant influence over the mind of a child.
Oftentimes the father is too much engrossed
in business, to be able to attend to these
duties; or abroad, preaching the Gospel.
Sometimes large families may prevent the
father paying such special attention to every
member; but a mother’s province is at
home. She should always know, unless
sickness or some inevitable cause prepent,
where her chidren are and what associa-
tions they are forming. 
	Look at history and see how. many great
and good men, Statesmen, Warriors and
even Kings attribute their successes,
more or less, to their mother’s influence-
and teaching. King Alfred the Great, whose
memory will never die, had a good and wise
mother, who in molding his mind and charac-
ter,taught him the value and importance of an
education, in an age when it was considered
only necessary for the priests, kings and men
of rank to distinguish themselves as great
warriors, hunters and horsemen; these were
their highest ambitions.
	But King Alfred devoted himself to study
also, and encouraged learning everywhere;
he founded schools for his subjects and the
two great colleges, Oxford and Cambridge.
	Mothers in Israel, my appeal is especially
to you. You wish your boys to become
honored instruments in the hands of God,
to help and assist in establishing righteous-
ness and the true principles pertaining to
life and salvation; then keep them pure,
just as much so as your daughters. Never
suffer them to use tobacco in any form; or
ardent spirits, which destroys the body and
deadens the mental faculties; never laugh
at rough talk or rude jests because they are
boys; let them see you do not approve of
either. Strive to make them all you most
admire in men. Be earnest, watchful and
prayerful in your labor of love, that your
sons may be fit for husbands, for fathers of
families, for Elders in Israel, for pillars in
Zion.
			BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.
SALT LAKE CITY, NOV. 3. 1873.


ABOUT MATRIMONY

	WHOM DO GREAT MEN MARRY.

	Distinguished individuals show the same
diversity of taste that is seen in the lower
ranks, and on the whole make worse mis-
takes. They, however, show the same
sense in choosing wives that they show in
managing other people's affairs, whether
they be good or bad.
	Robert Burns married a farm girl with
whom he fell in love while they worked to-
gether in the plow-field. He was irregular
in his life, and committed the most serious
mistakes in conducting his domestic affairs.
	Milton married the daughter of a country
squire, but lived with her but a short time.
He was an austere, exacting, literary re-
cluse, while she was a rosy, romping country
lass, that could not bear the restraint im-
posed upon her, so they separated. subse-
quently, however, she returned and they
lived tolerably happy.
	Queen Victoria and Prince Albert were
cousins, and about the only example in the
long line of English monarchs wherein the
marital vows were sacredly observed, and
sincere affection existed.
	Shakespeare loved and wedded a farmer's
daughter. She was faithful to her vows,
but could hardly say the same of the great
bard himself. Like most of the great poets
he showed too little discrimination in be-
stowing his affections on the other sex.
	Byron married Miss Milbank to get money
to pay his debts. It turned out a bad
shift.
	Benjamin Franklin married the girl who
stood in her father's door, laughing at him
as he wandered through the streets of Phil-
adelphia, with rolls of bread under his arms,
and his pockets filled with dirty clothes.
She had occasion to be happy when she
found herself the wife of one who proved to
be a great and good man.
	Washington married a woman with two
children. It is enough to say she was worthy
of him, and, that they lived as married folks
should—in perfect harmony.
	John Adams married the daughter of a
Presbyterian clergyman. Her father ob-
jected on account of John's being a lawyer;
he had a bad opinion of the morals of the
profession.
	John Howard, the great philanthropist,
married his nurse. She was altogether be-
neath him in social life and intellectual
capacity; and, besides this, was fifty-two
years old, while he was but twenty-five.
He would not take "No" for answer, and
they were married and lived happily to-
gether until her death, which occurred
years afterwards.
	Peter the Great, of Russia, married a
peasant girl. She made an excellent wife
and a sagacious empress.
	Humboldt married a girl because he loved
her. Of course they were happy.
	It is not generally known that Andrew
Jackson married a lady whose husband was
still living. She was an uneducated but
amiable woman, and was most devotedly
attached to the old warrior and statesman.
	Edward Lytton Bulwer, the English
statesman and novelist, married a girl much
his inferior in position, and got a shrew for
a wife.


THE Hon. Ashur Ware, who died in Port-
land, Me., recently, at the age of 92 years,
was editor of the "Boston Yankee," in 1816,
and the “Portland Eastern Argus,” in 1817.
He held the office of District Judge 44
years, besides other important trusts.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿[For the EXPONENT.
			CARRIE.

	The last flowers my Carrie gathered.
	Like the fall flowers, nipped by the early
frost of September, so my Carrie faded and
died. When clearing the room the day
after her burial, I picked up some faded
flowers; but when in the act of throwing
them out, I paused and said—I cannot throw
these away, they are the last flowers my
Carrie gathered––I have them yet. And I 
have often thought, what a beautiful theme
for a poet!
	A few hours before she breathed her last,
she seemed to be in a vision, and calling
me to her bedside, said "Ma, I am going
home." When I burst into tears and said,
—Oh! do not leave me!—she took her
handkerchief and wiped the tears from my
cheeks, and laid her little, trembling hands
upon my face, saying "Is this how you feel
about it? Oh! bless you, my dear, dear 
mother!"
	When I withdrew, she called for her
father and brothers, and gave each the part-
ing kiss. Her only sister was absent at the
time.
	Every sharp word or correction that I had
ever given her, burst upon my mind. And
when I said—Carrie forgive me for every
unkind word—her reply was, "Oh! bless
you, my dear, dear mother!"
	Although the heart-strings of the friends
who are left to mourn, seem to be rent
assunder by the parting which death brings,
there is nothing dreadful in the death of
the sinless and pure, as was my Carrie
							W. E.


WISE WORDS OF GREAT MEN.

	EVERY generation laughs at the old fash-
ions, but follows religiously the new.—“Tho-
reau.”
	AVOID singularity. There may often be
less vanity in following the new modes than
in adhering to the old ones.—“Joubert.”
	WE sacrifice to dress till household joys
and comforts cease. Dress drains our cellar
dry, and keeps our larder lean.—“Cowper.
	MOTHERS, will you be missionaries? We
will appoint you a mission to teach your
children their duty; and instead of ruffles
and fine dresses to adorn the body, teach
them to adorn the mind, — “Brigham
Young.”
	BE neither too early in the fashion, nor
too long out of it, nor too precisely in it;
what custom hath civilized is become de-
cent, till then ridiculous; where the eye is
the jury, thy apparel is the evidence.—
“Quarles.”
	THE person whose clothes are extremely
fine I am too apt to consider as not being
possessed of any superiority of fortune but
resembling those Indians who are found to
wear all the gold they have in the world in
a bob at the nose.—“Goldsmith.”
	MEN of quality never appear more amia-
ble than when their dress is plain, Their
birth, rank, title, and its appendages are at
best invidious; and as they do not need the
assistance of dress, so, by disclaiming the
advantage of it, they make their superiority
sit more easy.—“Shenstone.”
	BEAUTY gains little and homliness and de-
formity lose much by gaudy attire. Lysander
knew this was in part true, and refused the
rich garments that the tyrant Dionysino prof-
ered to his daughters, saying, ‘that they were
fit only to make unhappy faces more remark-
able.”––“Zimmerman.
	IN Athens the ladies were not gaudily,


but simply arrayed, and we doubt whether
any ladies ever excited more admiration.
So also the noble old Roman matrons, whose
superb forms were gazed on delightedly
by men worthy of them, were always very
plainly dressed.—“George D. Prentice.”
	THOSE who are incapable of shining but
by dress would do well to consider that the
contrast between them and their clothes
turns out much to their disadvantage. It
is on this account I have sometimes observed
with pleasure, some noblemen, of immense
fortune, to dress exceeding plain.—“Shen-
stone.” 
	As long as there are cold and nakedness
in the land around you, so long can there be
no question at all but that splendor of dress
is a crime. In due time, when we have
nothing better to set people to work at, it
may be right to let them make lace and cut
jewels; but as long as there are any who
have no blankets for their beds, and no rags
for their bodies, so long it is blanket-making
and tailoring we must set people to work
at, not lace.—“Ruskin.”


THE JIMMYJOHNS.

	Mrs. Diaz tells in "Our Young Folks" a
comical story of two twins, who looked so
much alike that the neighbors could not
tell which was Jimmy and which Johnny,
and so called them "the Jimmy Johns."  And
this is the account of one of their funny 
"ways:"  When the Jimmy Johns were little
toddling things, just beginning to walk, 
they were constantly falling down, tipping
over in their cradle or bumping their heads
together; and Mrs. Plummer found that 
the best was to stop the crying, at such
times, was to turn to kissing.  The reason
is very plain.  In crying, the mouth flies
open; in kissing, it shuts.  Mrs. Plummer
was a wonderful woman.  She found out
that shutting the mouth would stop crying,
and to shut the mouth she contrived that
pretty kissing plan, and at the first sound of
a bump would catch up the little toddlers,
put their arms around each others necks, and
say:—"Kiss Johnny, Jimmy!  Kiss Jimmy, 
Johnny!"  It was enough to make anybody
laugh to see them in the midst of a crying
spell, run towards each other, their cheeks
still wet with tears, and to see their poor,
little, twisted crying mouths, trying to shut
up into a kiss!


LEAF PHOTOGRAPH.

	A very pretty amusement, especially for
those who have just completed the study of
botany, is the taking of leaf photographs.
One very simple process is this: At any
druggist’s get a dime’s worth of bichromate
of potash. Put this in a two-ounce bottle
of soft water. When the solution be-
comes saturated (that is, the water has
disolved as much as it will) pour out some
of the clear liquid into a shallow dish; on
this float a piece of ordinary writing paper,
till it is thoroughly and evenly moistened,
Let it become nearly dry, in the dark. It
should be a bright yellow. On this put the
leaf; under it a piece of soft black cloth,
and several sheets of newspaper. Put these
between two pieces of glass (all the pieces
should be of the same size), and with spring
clothes-pins, fasten them all together. Ex-
pose to a bright sun, placing the leaf so that
the rays will fall upon it as nearly perpen-
dicular as possible. In a few minutes it will
begin to turn brown; but it requires from
half an hour to several hours to produce a
perfect print. When it has become dark
enough, take it from the frame and put it


in clear water, which must be changed every
few minutes, till the yellow part becomes
perfectly white. By following these direc-
tions it is scarcely possible to fail, and little
practice will make perfect.


﻿   MISCELLANEOUS.

	THERE is a whole sermon in the saying of
the old Persian, “In all thy quarrels leave
open the door of reconciliation."
	All religious orders in Guatemala have
been suppressed and their property has been
devoted to instruction at San Juan, Del
Norte.
	SURELY one of the best rules in conversa-
tion, is never to say a thing which any of
the company can reasonably wish we had
rather left unsaid.—“Swift.”
	A SHREWD old gentleman once said to
his daughter, "Be sure, my dear, you
never marry a poor man; but the poorest
man in the world is one that has money and
nothing else."
	So witty a compliment is rarely made as
that of Sydney Smith's to his friends Mrs.
"Tighe and Mrs. Cuffe:—Ah, there you are
the cuff that every one would like to wear,
and the tie that no one would lose."
	"How will we settle the labor question?"
exclaimed a member of the Georgia Legis-
lature, in the midst of his speech. "By all
going to work, and earning your living
honestly!" thundered an irreverent specta-
tor in the gallery.
	THERE have been many definitions of a
gentleman, but the prettiest and most pa-
thetic is that given by a young lady, who
says:—“A gentleman is a human being
combining a woman's tenderness with a
man's courage."
	A MAN, after waltzing six times with one
lady at a ball, was asked if he was fond of
dancing. “Oh, no,” replied the youth, "I
don't care for it, but my doctor advised me
to-day to take a sweat, and this is cheaper
than a Turkish bath."
	AT a recent Connecticut wedding, in re-
peating the words, "If you know of any
just cause," etc., the minister looked
straight at a nervous young man directly in
front of him. The fellow sprang up with
much haste and trepidation, and blurted out:
"Oh, no, bless me! not the slightest objec-
tion, sir."
	HE who has not learned the lesson of
resolute self-help has made little progress
as a student, has grown little towards real
manhood. Half the world refuses to do its
own thinking, to toil through the solution
of its own knotty problems, hence half the
world who will not do this must be subject
to the other half who will. They who do
the thinking will either directly or indi-
rectly do the governing.


﻿"ONE of the most interesting features of
the Granges” (of the Patrons of Husbandry,
the new Order founded by the Western
farmers to oppose the encroachments of rail-
road monoply), says Coleman’s Rural World,
"is that not a single one can be organized
without the companionship of the ladies.


﻿Two girls in New Bedford, Massachusetts,
aged twelve and fourteen, who lost their
father some months ago, have, since his
death, taken the entire care of a horse, five
cows, and a great flock of hens; done all of
the odd “chores” about the house, attended
public school, and in their leisure moments
taken lessons on the piano.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		﻿MISCELLANEOUS.

		TELL YOUR WIFE.
	If you are in trouble or a difficulty, tell
your wife—that is, if you have one—all
about it at once. Ten to one, her invention
will solve your difficulty sooner than all
your logic. The wit of woman has been
praised, but her instincts are quicker than
her reason. Take counsel with your wife,
or your mother, or sister, and be assured
that light will flash upon your darkness.
Women are too commonly pronounced shal-
low in all but purely womanish affairs. No
philosophical student of the sex thus judges
them. Their intuitions, or insights, are
subtile, and if they cannot see a cat in the
dark cupboard, there is no cat there.
	In counseling a man to tell his wife, we
would go further, and advise him to keep
none of his affairs from her. Many a home
has been happily saved and many a fortune
retrieved by man’s confidence in his “better
half.” Woman is far more a seer and a
prophet than a man, if she have a fair
chance. As a general rule, wives confide
their minutest plans and thoughts to their
husbands, having no involvements to screen
from them. Why not reciprocate, if but for
the pleasure of meeting confidence with
confidence?
	We are certain that no man succeeds so
well in the world as he who, taking a part-
ner for life, makes her the partner of all his
purposes and hopes. What is wrong of his
impulses or judgment she will check and
make right with her almost univerally right
instincts.
	"Help-meet was no insignificant title, as
applied to man's companion. She is a meet-
help to him in every darkness, difficulty,
and sorrow of life. And what she most
craves, and most deserves, is confidence—
without which love is never free from
shadow.
	Why is kissing your sweetheart like
eating soup with a fork? Because it takes
a long time to get a enough of it.
	BRINGING A SISTER TO TERMS.
	Sister.—“If you don’t give up making
that noise with your drum, I’ll call ma.”
Juvenile.—“Do, and I’ll tell her how the par-
son hugged you last night whenyou let him
out.” (Sister subsides.)
       ANECDOTE OF DR. JOHNSON.
	Andrew Miller was a principal proprietor
of Dr. Johnson’s Dictionary, and the man-
ager or treasurer of the fund out of which
payments were from time to time made to
the author. When the work was com-
pleted, Andrew was so overjoyed, that he
sent the following acknowledgment of the
receipt of the last sheet of the manuscript.
	“Andrew Miller sends his compliments
to Mr. Samuel Johnson, with the money for
the last sheet of copy of the Dicitionary, and
thanks God he has done with him."
	Which drew from Johnson this keen
retort:
	“Samuel Johnson returns his compliments
to Mr. Andrew Miller, and is very glad to
find, as he does by his note, that Andrew
Miller has the grace to thank God for any-
thing.”
		SHE HAD THEM THERE.
	A lady in town chances to be unfortunate
in the opinion of some of her neighbors.
A physician has of late been necessitated to
visit her family rather frequently. There
being no hitching post before the lady’s own
door, the doctor several times fastened his
horse to a post in front of a neighbor’s resi-
dence. This he was shortly warned not to
do again. So, when next the Æsculapius

[Column 2]
made his appearance, he asked the lady who
was at one of the windows of the house,
where he should “tie up.”
	“Let the horse stand,” was the prompt
reply “the neighbors will watch him for
you!"
	Enough of those same neighbors heard
the complimentary remark—we only hope
it did them good.
			HABITS.
	Like flakes of snow, that fall upon the
earth, the seemingly unimportant events of
life succeed one another. As the snow
gathers together, so are habits formed ; no
single flake that is added to the pile pro-
duces a sensible change; no single action
creates, however it may exhibit, a man’s
character; but as the tempest hurls the ava-
lanche down the mountain, and overwhelms
the inhabitant and his habitation, so passion,
acting on the elements of mischief, which 
pernicious habits have brought together by
imperceptible accumulations, may overthrow
the edifice of truth and virtue.


THE SEX.

	“We need woman’s influence in govern-
ment, to aid in the suppression of vice and
intemperance.”—“Bishop Simpson.”
	THE girl of this age is unfit to be wed
who don’t understand  how to make nice
sweet bread. And the man is a dunce who
a partner will take, who don’t undersand
how to wash, knit and bake.
	AN Illinois girl having six lovers offered
to marry the one who should “break up”
the most prairie in three days. The result
was she got a smart husband, and her father
found his farm ready for planting free of
cost.
	WITH woman’s influence with us, we
shall have no such word as fail. Her in-
fluence is for good, and we are glad to know
she will exert it in behalf of those who are
nearest and dearest to her.”—Coleman’s
“Rural World.”
	A MARRIED friend of ours said he would
always have remained single, but he
couldn’t afford it. What it  cost him for
“gals and ice cream,” was more than he
now pays to bring up a wife and eight chil-
dren. Bachelors should think of this.
	IN TURKESTAN a traveler relates, if the
husband of any woman go away upon a
journry and remain away for more than
twenty days, as soon as that time is past the
woman may marry another man, and the
husband also may marry whom he pleases.


﻿FLOWERS.

	HE who is only in good health and is wil-
ling to work has nothing to fear in this
world.
	BAD temper bites at both ends; it makes
one’s-self nearly as miserable as it does oth-
er people.
	IT is almost impossible to state any truth
strongly without seeming to conflict with
some other truths.
	BE slow to decide but quick to perform.
	THE three things most difficult are:—To
keep a secret, to forget an injury, and to
make good use of leisure.
	THERE cannot be a pleasant smile on the
lips of the hopeless. The blow that crushes
the life will shatter the smile.
	SPARE moments are the gold dust of time.
Of all the portions of our life, spare moments
are the most fruitful in good or evil.


EXAMINE YOURSELF.—Do it impartially;
do it faithfully; do it often. Sit down by
yourself, and shutting out all thoughts on
other subjects, review your own life for the
last day—for the last week. Recall both your
acts and your words, for both to others and
to yourself your words are often as serious
realities as your actions.


MARY H. BARKER M. D.,
Office opposite Old Constitution Building, Main
Street. Office hours--10 a m. to 3 p m.

MRS. CARPENTER,
			Physician and Surgeon,
Office at the Townsend House, Room No. 50.

CALDER & CARELESS,
	No. 37, East Temple Street. Salt Lake City.
Agents for the Arion Piano, Mason & Hamlin Organ
and Wilson Shuttle Lock-Stitch Sewing Machine.
	All kinds of Music and Fancy Goods.	jel5

FURNISH YOUR HOMES.
	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by
			H. DINWOODEY,

	At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street

H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.

BOOKS! BOOKS! PEOPLE IN WANT OF
	BOOKS IN ALL BRANCHES OF LITERATURE AND
EDUCATION will find at JAMES DWYER'S BOOK
STORE everything they need at less than Eastern
Prices. Special discounts made to all who purchase.
A Splendid Stock on hand. 

			NEW CLUB RATES.

	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the
part of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of
the EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects con-
templated in its publication, by making it truly an
exponent of the views of the women of Utah, sus-
tained by them, read by them, and its columns
enriched with a widely circulated expression of their
thoughts, we offer the following terms to clubs, so as
to prepare for increasing the value and importance of
the paper with the beginning of the next volume,
which a larger subscription list will enable us to do:
10 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club		-	-	-	-	$13 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club		-	-	-	-	  26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club and a framed steel engrav-
	ing, 12x16 inches. of President Brigham
	Young, selling price, $2 50	-	-	  34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club, and a superior first proof,
	steel engraving of President Brigham
	Young, handsomely framed, selling
	price $4		-	-	-	-			  48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time; and addi-
tions can be made after the first list of names has
been sent.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the
risk of the publishers.
	We hope ladies throughout the Territory, especial-
ly the Presidents and Secretaries of Relief Societies'
will endeavor to get up clubs, and that they will con-
stitute themselves agents for the extension of the
circulation of the EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
