VOL. 2.	    SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 1, 1874    	NO. 19.


[Column 1]
		EDITORIAL NOTES.
	THE FATHER of the noted and worthy
Florence Nightingale, died recently, at his
residence, Embly Manor, near Romsey, Eng-
land. He was in the eightieth year of his
age.
	A SOUTHERN history of the late civil war
is to be compiled and published. Every
story has its two sides, and both may be
profitable considered.
	DISBAELI FORMALLY accepted the Pre-
miership of England on the 18th ult., and
Gladstone, who has for some years held the
office, is reported to be "glad" that this
"stone" has been so cast.
	WHEN PEOPLE feel like finding fault with
work which has been accomplished by
others, they should reflect before giving an
opinion, whether they could have done bet-
ter themselves. 
	THE SUMMIT of the Jungfrau mountain in
Switzerland, has been attained by an Ameri-
can lady which is considered a perilous feat
to perform. Miss Brewood is the name of
the lady who has thus distinguished herself.
	THE EDITORIAL contributor of the "Wo-
man's Journal" writes that "In London,
what was formerly called 'husband,' is now
a young lady's 'connubial attache,'" We
are not informed of what the latest style is
of designating a young man's better half.
	THE SEMI-centennial anniversary of the
foundation of the Franklin Institute was re-
cently celebrated at the Musical Fund Hall
in Philadelphia. Mr. Fredrick Fraley, one
of the founders of the Institute was present
and gave interesting recollection of its
establishment.
	MARSHAL BAZAINE, the old French war-
rior, who has been sentenced to spend the
remainder of his days as a prisoner, having
been charged with disloyalty, will be grant-
ed the society of his family. His wife made
the request, and the French Government
had the consideration to receive it favorably.
	PERHAPS SOME of the most unconscionable
men upon the American Continent are resi-
dents of Jersey City, N. J. It has been tele-
graphed that twenty-five women, who be-
gan the crusade against liquor in that city
went to a billiard saloon, knelt and prayed,
and exhorted for half and hour without pro-
ducing the desired effect. The men treated
them with jeers.
	AMENDMENTS TO the Indian intercourse
bill of 1855, designed to abolish the liquor
traffic among Indians, providing heavy pen-
alties for any infraction of the law against
such traffic, have been proposed. General
Harney recommends the suppression of
whiskey sellers by shooting or hanging
them. A law by which white men could be
enforced to set Indians better examples than
drinking whiskey, might have a beneficial
effect.
	MR. WENDELL Phillips asked, at the
Women's Centennial tea-party, in Boston,
"What would Sam Adams say to-day?"
And a New York editor farther queries,
"Would he have celebrated his famous tea-
party with the ladies who declared that taxa-
[Column 2]
tion without representation is tyranny, or
with the gentlemen who said so a hundred
years ago?" These questions are very sug-
gestive—Who will answer them?
	THE "AMERICAN Journal of Education"
is published monthly by E. N. Andrews, at
Chicago, price $1,50 a year. It is of conve-
nient size and of excellent typographical
appearance, and being devoted to the cause
of education, aims to be a popular as well
as professional periodical; useful to the
teacher, the school officer and all friends of
education.
	THE CALIFORNIA State Legislature has
passed a bill, making women eligible to
School offices. The same step has been pre-
viously taken by several other states; and
this is considerable in favor of woman's
abilities. If she is competent to instruct
the youth of our land, should she not cer-
tainly be possessed of sufficient intelligence
to entitle her to a voice in the arrangements
or laws by which the schools of our country
are to be governed?
	A LATE telegram from Erie, Penn., gives
the following item of news: "The wife of
Ezra Cooper, one of the wealthiest men in
this country, was arrested to-day on suspic-
ion of having murdered a servant girl, of
whom it is said she was jealous, imagining
there was too great an intimacy between the
deceased and her husband." Another sad
instance of the dire effects of letting pas-
sion, and not principle, take possession of,
and rule the human heart.
	CASES OF poverty and distress, in New
York city are lately being brought to light
in astonishing magnitude. Women from the
wealthiest and most refined families of the
city, have been so touched by the sights of
destitution and suffering which have pre-
sented themselves, that they have not only
offered the contents of their purses, and
clothing from their wardrobes, but some
have even volunteered their services as
seamstresses for the poor. We repeat the
words of one old lady, a recipient of mercy,
"God bless the rich who are charitable to
the poor." And He will. 
	THE LEGISLATURE has appropriated $10.-
000 to the Deseret Agricultural and Manu-
facturing Society. Miss Joan M. Campbell
has been elected secretary of the Society,
in the place of her father, Mr. R. L. Camp-
bell, resigned. Miss Mary L. Campbell is
assistant secretary, and Mr. G. B. Wallace
corresponding secretary. Ladies through-
out the Territory should keep in view, the
fact that they are desired and expected to do
their part in making the Territorial Fair for
each season a success; and their works for
this purpose should always be contemplated
and begun in good time. 	A CHEERFUL and energetic woman of this
city—whose name we have not permision to
publish—has been chief assistant to her hus-
band in building two houses. She said to
us, "He prepared the concrete while I laid
the lower part of the house and one of the
gable ends; then we exchanged work, and I
mixed the concrete while he finished the
upper part." During the same conversation,
this lady remarked that she was so eager to
learn the news of the day, it seemed as
[Column 3]
though she could hardly wait for the papers
to be issued. We would like Senator Frel-
inghuyson, or the Salt Lake correspondent
of the "New North West" to inform us why
this lady should be disfranchised.
	IN THE recently published Autobiography
of John Stuart Mill, M. P. he has declared
almost his entire life a disappointment.
His father, who had been educated for the
ministry but became an unbeliever, was his
teacher. At three years of age the child was
put to studying Greek, and at eight he had
read most of the renowned Greek works.
So his life and studies were continued; really
anything but pleasant and happy to himself.
He tells how he was disappointed "In his
fellow-students, in his fellow-laborers, in so-
ciety into which he had ceased to go, in his
father's opinions, in his own, in his political
efforts, in Parliament, in the philosophical
radicals, in the workingmen, in the Board on
which he worked all his life, in the reforms
he saw effected; in every thing with which
his life was associated except his fellowship
in feeling and labor with his wife, and that
for only seven years." Sad failure of a life,
one of honor and affluence, yet with no sat-
isfaction in it, for the man to whom it was
kindly lent. Parents who are ambitious for
the future of their children, may better
teach them to pray to and reverence God,
without ever putting a book into their hands,
than to crowd their brains with all sorts of
worldly knowledge in order that they may
become great in the eyes of the world.
More than one useful moral might be drawn
from the life-history of Mr. Mill as given by
himself.


HUMOR AND SARCASM.

	It is not everybody who knows where to
joke, or when, or how; and whoever is ig-
norant of these conditions had better not
joke at all. A gentleman never attempts to
be humorous at the expense of people with
whom he is but slightly acquainted. In fact,
it is neither good manners nor wise policy
to joke at anybody's expense; that is to say,
to make anybody uncomfortable merely to
arise a laugh. Old Aesop, who was doubt-
less the subject of many a gibe on account
of his humped back, tells the whole story in
his fable of "The Boys and the Frogs."
What was jolly for the youngsters was death
to the croakers. A jest may cut deeper
than a cruse. Some men are so constituted
that they cannot take even a friendly joke
in good part, and instead of repaying it in
the same light coin, will requite it with con-
tumely and insult. Never banter one of
this class, for he will brood over your badi-
nage long after you have forgotten it, and it
is not prudent to incur any one's enmity for
the sake of uttering a smart double entendre
or a tart repartee. Ridicule, at best, is a
perilous weapon. Satire, however, when
levelled at social follies and political evils,
is not only legitimate, but commendable.
It has shamed down more abuses than were
ever abolished by force or logic.


Plans have been prepared for the bridge over the
Mississippi at Quincy, Ill. It will be 2,400 feet in
length, double-decked, with a draw of 300 feet.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


"DON'T WHIP HIM."

		ANONYMOUS.

Our Bobby was pinching the kittens,
	And kicking the primmer about,
And pulling a beetle to pieces,
	His face all awry in a pout;
His mamma, who silent and patient,
	Had heard all his fretting and noise,
Now reached for the whip on the mantle—
	The terror of four-year-old boys.

But Grandma, with snowy-white kerchief
	Pinned over her warm, loving breast,
Where ten little heads had been pillowed
	And rocked into childhood's sweet rest,
Looked up from her little wool stocking,
	Just finished and laid on her knee.
And said, "dear, you'll ruin his temper,
	Please listen a moment to me.

"Don't whip him; his father before him
	Was flogged and shut up in the dark,
And stood on one foot in the corner,
	And disciplined up to the mark;
We gave him no credit for honor,
	But watched him as spiders watch flies,
And what did it teach him? why mainly
	To practise deceit and tell lies.

We called it affection and duty—
	God knows we were fond of the boy—
But I guess his remembrance of childhood
	Is not quite a well-spring of joy.
So put up that willow whip, daughter,
	And try little Bobby once more;
You see he's forgotten his passion,
	And lies, half asleep, on the floor."

Then Grandmother lifted her darling,
	And patted his head on her breast,
And sang an old favorite ditty,
	Till all Bobby's woes were at rest;
And so the wee whip, bright and yellow,
	Was laid on the mantle again,
And this is  way that these grandmas'
	Spoil nine little boys out of ten.


R. S. REPORTS.

	Mrs. Sinah Bishop, Secretary of the Re-
lief Society of Paradise, Cache Co., writes
that on the 5th of Jan., Sister Maughan,
President of the Relief Societies in Cache
County, met with the sisters of Paradise and
reorganized the Relief Society there. Some
of the former officers having moved from
the settlement, they were released and
others duly appointed to fill the vacant
places. Sister Martha Wright was appoint-
ed President, Sister Lydia R. Remington
first, and Ann James second Counselors, and
Sister Elizabeth S. Jackson Treasurer, with
a sufficient number of Teachers. Sister
Maughan gave some excellent instruction,
which the sisters appreciated and seemed
desirous of profiting by. Mrs. Bishop con-
cludes her report with, "Hoping we may
individually and as a Society add our influ-
ence and unite in the building up of the
Kingdom of God, we are your sisters in the
Gospel Covenant." 

	Mrs. Betsy Gold writes from Washington,
Washington Co., that the young ladies of
that place, with a few others of more ma-
ture years, met at the residence of ex Bishop
R. D. Covington, Feb. 9th, 1874, and organ-
ized a Young Ladies' Retrenchment Soci-
ety, with the following officers:
	MISS LUCY COOPER, President,
	 "	CHRISTY JOHNSON,		}
	 "	EMILY HARMON,			} Counselors
	 "	IDA PARKER, Secretary,
	 "	HANNAH LARSON, Treasurer.


A distinguished German surgeon named
Esmarch has invented a process whereby
amputation of the limbs may be performed
bloodless by applying bandages to the limbs
above the point of operating. The method
has been successfully tried in New York
city.


[Column 1]
	"BEAR YE ONE ANOTHER'S
			BURDENS."
	Galatians, 6th chapter, 2nd verse.
	To me this text seems peculiarly applica-
ble to women. A woman's nature is natur-
ally one of sympathy, and none are so ready
to lend assistance, to succor the weak, aid
the poor, pour balm into the wounded heart,
and to comfort by every means in her power
those whose fortunes are hard, as gentle,
self-sacrificing woman. O woman! surely
your mission is one of tenderness and love.
How particularly necessary then, that we
should love one another; that we may the
more readily aid, comfort, strengthen, en-
courage and truly sympathize with each
other. If our labors are arduous and com-
plicated, they may be materially lightened
by mutual participation and co-operation.
We can all understand this in relation to
practical everyday life, and as that is a com-
plete prototype of our spiritual life, the
same rule will apply in spiritual matters as
well as in those of a temporal nature.
Every human soul, at any rate every wo-
man's soul, needs support and comfort from
outside sources. We are none of us entirely
independent of each other, no matter how
self-reliant, or how strong-minded, however
extraordinary our gifts, intellect, attain-
ments or possessions. Sometimes I think
the stronger the mind, the more sympathy
it needs. If it is continually pouring forth
to others, the fountain must needs be replen-
ished. To be sure we have always our
Heavenly Father to go to, and his fountains
are inexhaustible; but then we are mortals,
dwelling in mortal bodies, and as such, have
need of sympathy from mortal beings.
	We are engaged in a stupendous work,
view it in whatever light we may, and the
work is increasing on every side. It is im-
possible to define its limits, or determine its
magnitude. Think you then, there is no
need of assistance from one another? We
have each of us the same object in view, a
similar interest at stake, if we could only
realize it; we are working not only for our
own mutual improvement and advancement,
but for the good of future generations. The
seed we sow will assuredly spring up, blos-
som and bear fruit in the future; .and having
the same prize to obtain, the same goal to
reach, aiming at the same great result, the
regeneration of woman; let us be philan-
thropists in the truest sense of the word;
and a constant support to each other in
word, in action, and in very deed. If we
have strong minds or bodies, so much the
better for us, and so much the more devolves
upon us to do, for "where much is given
much will be required." If we possess
gifts, talents, or abilities, are we justified in
allowing them to perish for the want of use,
any more than the miser in hoarding up his
gold while the poor around him are starv-
ing? I think not; but in humility, laying
all upon the altar of our faith, trusting in
God for guidance and support, let us exert
every faculty we possess, in the great work
of advancement and redemption. Let us
stretch forth a hand to the weak and erring,
lift up the fallen, raise the bowed down,
help the tempted to resist temptation, and
stimulate those who are dilatory to prompt
and decided action.
	We have been told that "Pure religion
and undefiled before God and the Father, is
to visit the widow and the fatherless in their
afflictions,"&c. Do we not visit the widow
and the orphan, the poor, the sick, the igno-
rant, the weak and by every means in our
power contribute to their comfort, well-be-
ing and happiness? And we do not say
[Column 2]
"Be thou clothed and warmed and fed," but
we act in the matter, and our actions and
words correspond; then are we not bearing
the burdens of the weak, and striving to
fulfill the law of Christ, that "Inasmuch as
ye do it unto the least of these, ye do it unto
me?" Sisters, take courage; our love for
each other is increasing, we are becoming
acquainted with the character and develop-
ments of woman, our associations with each
other, (in our organizations) are gradually,
yet steadity uniting our influence. We may
be frowned upon, have to encounter preju-
dice and scorn, be criticized on all sides by
those who do not understand our motives;
but we must bear it bravely—without
shrinking or looking backward, trusting in
God and in each other; and always having
in view the great Cause in which we are
engaged; our march must be onward, our
motto progression.
	God has not given to all the same gifts,
therefore He must have intended us to help
each other; women as well as men. Why
should not women uphold each other by be-
ing associated together? I know it is the
opinion of most men that women are in-
capable of being true to each other, espec-
ially where there is the least chance for
rivalry either in affection, opinion or char-
acter; but notwithstanding man's voice to
the contrary, I believe it is possible for
women to arrive at a higher standard ofcharacter and excellence than has ever yet
been attained. And if man, being the ver-
itable living head, will lend us his sanction
and approbation, will look upon our efforts
with a smile of approval, even though he
withholds the helping hand, which it is our
right and privilege to expect, we will yet
succeed in the accomplishment of a purpose,
purifying and renovating in its influence,
powerful and effectual in its results for good
upon the human family. And many yet
unborn will have reason to bless those who
braved persecution, insult and calumny, to
establish organizations for the benefit of
woman; and as woman was the first to yield
to temptation and to induce man to follow
her, so ought she to be diligent and untir-
ing in her efforts to reinstate herself in the
presence of her Creator—and assist in per-
fecting and leading man back again also.
For whatever exalts, elevates, purifies and
refines woman, cannot fail to have a direct
influence upon man, for is it not given unto
her to "Bear the souls of men?"
			BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.
	Salt Lake City, Feb. 18th, 1874.


THE WILL MUST BE TRAINED, NOT
			BROKEN.
	Men often speak of breaking the will of a
child, but it seems to me they had better
break the neck. The will needs regulating,
not destroying. I should as soon think of
breaking the legs of a horse in training
him, as a child's will. I would discipline
and develop it into harmonious proportions.
I never yet heard of a will in itself too strong,
more than of an arm too mighty, or a mind too
comprehensive in its grasp, too powerful in
its hold. The instruction of children should
be such as to animate, inspire, train, but not
to hew, cut and carve; for I would always
treat a child as a live tree, which was to be
helped to grow, never as dry, dead timber
to be carved into this or that shape, and to
have certain moldings grooved upon it. A
live tree, and not dead timber, is every lit-
tle child.—Theodore Parker.
	Music in the St. Louis public schools costs $28,
000 a year.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿A LETTER.
		South Cottonwood, Feb. 1874.
MRS. L. Greene Richards:—
	I have been thinking of writing something
for the EXPONENT a long time; but being
young and timid, I have only just gained
sufficient courage to undertake the task.
First, I must ask permission of you, to have
my letter published. I do not know as I
can write any thing to edify any one, but I
think by trying, I may be able to benefit
myself.
	I will speak to the young daughters of
Zion. I wish I could see you all, and tell
you what I think about some things. I
would ask you to be steadfast, ever walking
in the paths of righteousness. We should
be more and more cautious every day, of be-
ing led astray, remembering that we are
surrounded with every kind of influence,
both bad and good, I fear almost more of the
former than the latter. We should, if pos-
sible, guard against all evil things. And of
course we can if we will. Let us retrench
in our dress and in our actions, and be very
careful with whom we associate. The young
men of our day like to see us dress well, and
we like to please them; but we should not
go to excess, either to gratify their whims
or our own. I am sorry there are not more
young men in this Territory, that are very
good, quiet kind of men; but there are some
such, and I would give them all the credit
which is due them. If we will live as we
should live, the right one will come along
in the right time, for every girl, not one
need throw herself away. Let us ever
serve God and keep his commandments.
	I will bid my young sisters good day. God
bless you all and help you to do his will, is
ever the prayer of your faithful sister.
							E. E. D.


[Column 1]
﻿	THE INFLUENCE OF FLOWERS.
	As spring is here, and time for the
planting of flowers now approaches, we
would call attention to this beautiful and
healthful employment. Upon this subject,
a successful and experienced New York busi-
ness man, has written as follows:
	“If the penchants of men could be turned
from billiards, dinners, club-houses, theaters,
riches, excessive business application and
the vulgar mania for cheap, vapid distinc-
tion; and the penchants of ladies from the
enslavements of arbitrary forms and fash-
ions and the trivial occupations which these
impose, to a real, practical fondness for flow-
ers—a physical, moral and intellectual bene-
fit to them and to their children would prove
the happy result.
	Every part of flower culture, from the
preparation of the soil to the gathering of
the seed, requires a gentle, skillful, patient
hand—hence its wholesome and disciplining
influence in these directions. As inhaling,
noisome odors, living among unsightly sur-
roundings, associating with foul-mouthed,
untidy people tend to stifle every aesthetic
sense and beget a kindred taste and spirit,
so living among the flowers and, as it were,
talking their chaste language, breathing
their fragrance, watching and caring for the
plant from the seed to maturity, cannot fail
to purify, or to create—to strengthen every
refining inpulse of the soul.
	In some of the vilest districts of New
York, we occasionally see in windows, gera-
niums, morning glories, ivies or other vigor-
ous plants. It maybe from the fifth story of
a building—the home of perhaps twenty
families. Call in at this room having the
[Column 2]
flowers in its window and see if in its scanty
furniture there is not a tidiness and preci-
sion not noticeable in other apartments. See
if the woman and her husband and her chil-
dren are not more kindly spoken, more man-
nerly, more decent than the occupants of
the other sections. Still further—inquire if
this family of the flowers has not “seen bet-
ter days” than those which condemned it to
a fifth story room in a neighborhood of filth
and wickedness.
	The natural love of flowers guarantees a
superior natural intelligence. It guarantees
a kind heart and affectionate impulses. Pick
out, then, this fifth story room if you are in
search of a servant. The little girl will not
choke your baby to keep it from crying; the
man will not kick and bruise your horse;
the woman will do your house-work dili-
gently and thank you sincerely for every act
of benevolence.
	The general diffusion—or a more general
diffusion—of a love of flowers is what, above
all other things, we sordid, plodding Ameri-
can people need. Ye heads of large houses,
ye brokers, ye merchant princes, alas! would
that ye merited such high sounding names,
—listen! cut down your expenses for just
one year a thousand dollars or so, and invest
this saving in a flower-garden—aye, a flow-
er-bed. Start for your offices a little later
and return a little earlier each day. Devote
an hour to the companionship of flowers.
It will invest home with a new, potent and
enduring charm; it will open a path to
higher thoughts; it will unite you more
closely to your wife and children; it will re-
veal the grinding selfishness of your busi-
ness relations; it will induce a more liberal
course towards those in your employ and it
will have its effect to raise the disreputable
standard of most mercantile pursuits as they
are at this day conducted.
	The question is often asked among new
acquaintances. “Are you fond of flowers?”
Rarely, we guess, is the reply in the nega-
tive—for those who are not fond of flowers
are ashamed to make it known; and full
well they may be. Are not the most capti-
vating scenes in nature but vast flower-gar-
dens? A natural park from which we cull
the choicest gems to adorn the epitome
grounds about our homes. They lack, in-
deed, but the grandeur of an extended
view. The cultivated grassy lawn is not to
be found upon the untouched hillside. The
tricolor Geraniums, the Roses, Camellias,
Gladioli and Carnations of to-day—glorious
results of the florist’s patient skill—we can
scarcely believe are the sisters of the mod-
est, simple plants which we meet in the
fields. Alas, then, for her or for him who
loves not the flower-garden—for, with the
same eye and sentiments, must be viewed
the hill and the valley, the woods and the
fields and all of earth’s growing things with
which God has beautified the world.”


A generous Georgia girl recently peddled
out 300 kisses at ten cents a smack and then
gave the money to the poor to buy coal and
flannel and things.
	Honorable mention is made of a Maine
servant girl who is now serving her 82nd
winter under the same roof. Per contra, a
Missouri girl aged 9, keeps her father’s
house and makes his trowsers.
	There are milk baths in New York City
which are patronized largely by ladies who
pay $5 per bath in milk that is warranted
pure, for the sake of improving their health
and beautifying their complexion.


FLOWER GARDENS FOR CHILDREN.

	It is desirable on many accounts that chil-
dren should cultivate flowers rather than
fruits or vegetables. Most children are fond
of flowers, and can be taught to love them,
and the hardier and commoner sorts at least
do not tax the energies so heavily as either
fruits or vegetables in cultivation. Besides,
since flowers appeal solely to the moral sense
they facilitate the inculcation of generous
habits. As children acquire strength and
skill, they may gradually be intrusted with
the care of vegetables and fruits; but they
must be taught to use the products of their
little gardens as a means of conferring hap-
piness on others; for thus can their own
happiness be most effectually attained, since
that which is selfishly enjoyed must ulti-
mately result in discontent. But of all the
lessons to be learned in a garden, the most
valuable is the art of observing; for so varied,
so delicate, so minute, and yet so unerring,
are the operations of Nature, that, though
the closest study may fail to fathom her
mysteries, the rewards of such a study are
so rich and so surprising that even the stu-
dent of tender years is perpetually stimula-
ted to fresh researches. This interest in
natural objects, once awakened, will prove
an inexhaustible source of pleasure while
life lasts: for it is an interest that the com-
monest health can gratify: and he that has
made good use of his powers of observation,
he that has trained his senses to bring him
accurate information, cannot "travel from
Dan to Beersheba and cry 'Tis all barren."—
"Home and School."


FACTS AND FIGURES.

	Kansas City has five miles of metropolitan tele-
graph.
	Rochester, N. Y., has a new school house cost-
ing $28,000.
	Locomotives are now heated in Russia with the
raw petroleum of the Volga
	There are only eight gold watches in Harrisburg,
Pa.—according to the official tax levy.
	A club of farmers in Chesterfield, Ill., takes $100
worth of magazines and newspapers annually.
	Without reckoning exports, the English consump-
tion of coal amounts to 100,000,000 tons per annum.
	Stanislaus Co., Cal., has 250 farms of over five
hundred acres each—ranging from 504 to 39,148
acres.
	Agassiz’s house and library were all the property
he had to dispose of by will. He had no time to
make money.
	In Carthage, Ill., boys under the age of 16 are,
by a city ordinance recently passed, prohibited from
chewing tobacco.
	The City of New York invests $65,000,000 in
manufactures, $90,000,000 in seventy-one banks,
and $200,000,000 in the liquor business.
	The Government Bureau of Engraving and Print-
ing, at Washington, employs 1,405 men with sala-
ries amounting to $800,000.
	The new Minnesota Legislature has cut down the
cost of stationery from $4,000 to $500, and refus-
ed to appropriate any money for postage stamps.
	Mr. Wm. Trotter of Taylor Co., Kentucky, has
fallen heir to $500,000, bequeathed by an aunt in
England. Before his good luck overtook him he
used to be old Bill Trotter.
	Two thousand dollars is a pretty high price to
pay for a single rooster. That is what Mr. Davis of
Portland has just given to Ira Batchelder for a black
Spanish cock—considered the best game bird in the
country.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
		L. GREENE RICHARDS, EDITOR.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Miss Cornelia H. Horne, Business Manager. Office hours
from 9 to 12 a.m., and from 2 to 5 p.m. on Mondays and
Fridays.
	Address all business communications to
					Publishers WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.
			SALT LAKE CITY, MARCH 1, 1874.


[Column 1]
			SPLINTERS.
	It is estimated that one quarter of the in-
habitants born upon the earth, die during
their first year, and one half, before reaching
their fifth year......Bass, the English brew-
er is reported to have refused the peerage
offered him.......Scotland receives $1,000,000
a year from California for wheat bags......
The "coming man" in the musical circles of
Europe is May Bruch......The body of the
infant violinist, James Speaight, who re-
cently died at Boston, will be sent to Eng-
land......A New York man recently eloped
with his thirteen-year old sister-in-law......
About $10,000,000 worth of eggs were im-
ported into England within the last nine
months......A Lee county, Ga., woman cul-
tivates 1,000 acres of cotton and 500 acres of
corn......The Rev. Jesse Lee did the first
methodist preaching ever done in Boston, on
the Common, in 1790......The late Thomas J.
(Stonewall) Jackson left one daughter, an in-
teresting young lady who is now in Char-
lotte, N.C. at school......Jacksonville Flori-
da, is said to have become a city of boarding-
houses......Boston expends $142,000 yearly
for church music......Miss Harriet Agusta
Smith of Wisconsin, has gained the title of
a heroic woman, by shooting a bear.......A
Universalist clergywoman of Kittery, Me.,
recently officiated at the marriage of her
own son......Portland, Maine, has four hun-
dred manufacturing establishments......East-
ern Pennsylvania has about forty Welsh Con-
gregational churches......Spurgeon, the cele-
brated English preacher, is making a tour
of the Continent for his health......Miss Nel-
lie Watson of Flint, Michigan, has gone to
Burmah, Asia, as a missionary......Bienniel
sessions of their legislatures are being talked
of by several of the Western States......The
Iowa Senate is considered a heavy body, the
average weight of each member being over
one hundred and seventy pounds.......The
Government, since its beginning, has given
away to soldiers 74,052,800 acres of land
......Every year, Aroostook, Maine, sells ten
thousand dollars’worth of honey...In Connec-
ticut last year, there were 104 business fail-
ures, the total liabilities of which were $1,
752,000......A car load of silk worms’ eggs,
passed through Chicago lately, on the way
from Japan to France......George F. Train
writes, “my speech-making days are over;
those who have never heard me, never will.”
......The life of Theodore Parker, by Mr.
Frothingham is promised shortly to appear
......The wife of the Itaiian Minister at the
Hague, Mrne. Bcrtniatti, is called the most
regal looking lady in Washington...It is Em-
erson who says, “We do not count on a ma’ns
years until he has nothing else to count”
......A bill has been passed by the United
States Senate' to take posession of the Louis-
ville and Portland Canal aud pay all endebt-
edness on the same......California claims a
net gain in population of 33,196, for eleven
months of 1873......Nearly ten and a half
miles of iron structure was built last year,
by a single bridge company in Baltimore....
It is reported that the Spanish authority
propose to draft all vagrants into the army
......New Haven has a rich old who keeps
her hens in the parlor and feeds them on
jelly cake and walnuts......Is is reported that
in Sussex County, New Jersey, hydropho-
bia among the dogs and horses, prevails to
an alarming extent.....When 1,011 bills had
been introduced in the House of Represent-
atives this session, 189 were private bilis
......Two hundred and sixty-eight thousand,
five hundred and tweenty-three acres of
land have been forfeited for non-payment of
taxes in South Carolina during the past year
[Column 2]
......A treaty providing for the interchange
of postal cards berween the United States
and Germany, recently went into effect......
Senator Logan refuses to tell how old he is.
Whose business is it bnt his own?.......A
Chicago female sexton is charged with re-
serving all the best graves for the young
men......It has been ascertained that the
Rev. Mr- Drake and wife, of Indianna both
died from the effects of poison, inhailed
through the opperatinn of tearing green pa-
per from a wall......Late reports from Ohio
say the woman’s war on the liquor traffic is
unabated......The Brooklyn Woman's Tem-
perance Society is trying to devise means
to prevent the sale of liquor on Saturdays
......Two editors in San Francisco lately
quarrelled, fired several shots on the street
and were arrested......A fire in the Empire
coal mine, at Wilksbarre, Pa. has been burn-
ing for more than six weeks.


[Column 1]
	 ﻿WOMAN SUFFRAGE IN UTAH.

	In order that the following act may be read
in connection with some portions of extracts to
which we here give place, we publish it, as
taken from the published Laws of Utah.  Read
it carefully, friends, and before you have finish-
ed this article, you will, without doubt, refer to
it once or twice again.
				 AN ACT,
CONFERRING UPON WOMEN THE ELECTIVE
				FRANCHISE.
	Section 1. Be it enacted by the Governor and Legis-
lative Assembly of the Territory of Utah: That every
woman of the age of twenty-one years who has resided
in this Territory six months next preceeding any general
or special election, born or naturalized in the United
States, or who is the wife, widow or the daughter of a
native-born or naturalized citizen of the United States,
shall be entitled to vote at any election in this Territory.
	Sec. 2. All laws or parts of laws conflicting with this
act are hereby repeated.
	Approved, February 12th, 1870.
	Mrs. Duniway has, in the “New North
West” of Jan. 30th, an article containing a
lengthy portion of a letter from Salt Lake, on
the Frelinghuysen Bill. She says:
	"A legal gentleman of Salt Lake City, whose acquaint-
ance and friendship we value highly, has written us at
length in favor of Senator Frelinghuysen's Utah bill.
We are sorry he does not give us liberty to publish his
argument in full over his own signature, as its subject
matter is candidly discussed. But he fails to convince
us that the Bill is what it ought to be.”
	Speaking of the provision of the bill men-
tioned, her friend has written:
	“By this provision the right of dower will be returned
to every lawful wife in Utah, the repeal of which, by
legislation, has been the cause of so much complaint.
	We should like this legal defender (?) of the
rights of woman, to tell us something more
about the complaint which has been made con-
cerning this act of our Territorial legislature,
as this is the first we have heard of it. We
wonder if he supposes the women of Utah
would relinquish the power of the ballot, with
all its additional rights, for the mercenary con-

[Column 2]
sideration to which he refers. They are by no
means such foolish worshippers of money, as
he may be, very likely is, himself.
	Again we extract:
	“But yourself and Mr. Blackwell object to the Freling-
huysen bill because it amends the statute of Utah con-
fering suffrage on women. Have either of you ever seen
that law?—a law that rivets the fetters of degradation
upon the poor, brutalized victims of lust and fanaticism
in Utah, and adds the contempt of compelling them to
draw tighter the chains while they wear them. Having
first, by a system of brutalism so revolting that in other
civilized countries it consigns those who indulge in it to
the cell of the felon, reduced the women of Utah to the
most abject shame, they seek to divert the attention of
the country from their crimes by conferring, nominally,
the right to vote on women, and some of our avowed
advocates of the question of universal suffrage allow
themselves to be caught in this transparent snare.
Why is it that the anomaly of reducing women to mere
'things' through the system of polygamy has not invit-
ed scrutiny into the paradox of investing these 'things'
with the elective franchise? When Napoleon was cho-
sen First General he had the ballots of the people, but
how? 'Vote as you please, but remember, that he who
does not cast his vote for General Bonaparte shall be
shot.' The women of Utah are entitled to vote, but
every Mormon woman knows that to vote for her free-
dom is to bring down upon her head swift and irrevoca-
ble ruin. You might as well have advocated suffrage
for the slaves of the South before their emancipation.
The ballot that does not and cannot express the senti-
ment of the voter is a burlesque on the right of suffrage,
in that the suffrage makes women sanction their own
degradation and support a system which they at heart
abhor. It is a cruelty that has about it a coolness and
ingenuity that is purely satanic. And your intelligent
advocates of woman’s right to vote in order to give her
independence, and elevate her to the social and busi-
ness departments of life, are blinded by their seeming
adherence to principle into an indorsement of that
which to-day is doing more to keep the women of Utah
in the bondage of polygamy than all else.
	"Would not the giving of the ballot to the Southern
slave without emancipating him from the control of
his master have been but a cruel mockery? It would
have added simply to the power of the oppressor.
	"Such is the situation in Utah, and the residents of
this woman-degrading Territory know this and have
asked that the statute be annulled, which enables the
enemies of woman's elevation to keep her in her pres-
ent degraded position.
	"Let emancipation be accomplished first, and then the
ballot can be given where it can be used to express the
wishes of the voter.
	"Now as to the statute of Utah which we ask shall be
amended:
	"First, you are aware, probably. that a large majority
of women in Utah are of foreign birth, and when, ac-
cording to Mormon statements, you are informed that
there are three thousand men, who have from one to
twenty wives each, you can judge of the number of
women who are living in polygamy—ten thousand is a
low estimate. There are then three thousand male na-
tives, and ten thousand women who are committed by
their votes to the system of polygamy—saying nothing
of the non-polygamous movement—the former being a
majority of two-thirds of the votes of the Territory.
The law not only allows the wives, but the daughters of
male citizens to vote, without reference to age and with-
out naturalization, requiring no time of residence ex-
cept on the part of the husband, and thus we are over-
borne by a tide of ignorance and fanaticism in defiance
of all right or justice.
	“You call Senator Frelinghuysen’s Bill a ‘serpent.’
If you had felt the serpent’s tooth that this Bill proposes
to extract you would not thus speak. I yield to no one
in the sincerity of my advocacy of the doctrine of Uni-
versal Suffrage; but its application must, like all other
measures, be governed by circumstances of time and
place. You seem not to comprehend that you cannot
apply the same rule to a set of ignorant crazy fanatics
that you could to a civilized and sane community. Re-
member that when you deal with lunatics you may
have to put them into straight-jacket treatment; and
rules perfectly applicable to other Territories cannot be
adopted in Utah. Her people must first be emancipated
from religious fanaticism: must realize something of
the responsibilities of citizens before they can be trust-
ed with those sacred privileges which even the best-in-
formed often abuse."
	Mrs. Dunaway then comments thus:—
	“If our friend doesn’t want us to print what he writes,
he mustn’t write such good letters. And with this
apology for publishing so much of his letter as relates
to Senator Frelinghuysen’s Bill, we now proceed to no-
tice the main feature of the Bill, which is the determi-
nation to disenfranchise the Women of Utah:
	We have no doubt but our friend truthfully portrays
the system of compelling Mormon wives to vote ac-


cording to the dictates of their masters; but we fail to
see why the women, only, should be deprived of the
right of suffrage because the Mormon men compel them
to abuse the right. We should heartily second the pas-
sage of a Bill to disfranchise both men and women who
live in polygamy, but, despite our correspondent’s dis-
claimer, we emphatically insist that any legislation
which makes invidious distinction against women as
American citizens is a serpent more dangerous than the
deadliest Cobra.
	We all know that the old English common law recog-
nizes no property rights in woman which her husband
is bound to respect. And while the right of dower to
the first, or lawful wife, in Utah, or anywhere else,
should be respected, we must not forget that there are
thousands of Mormon women whom the provisions of
this Bill would cut off from any claim to a support from
their fractional husbands for themselves and children.
These women are just as good, morally, as the ‘legal,’
or first wives, many of whom espoused Mormonism,
polygamy and all, of their own free-will and choice.
They and their children have moral rights, despite their
degradation, which the legal wife and children cannot
rightfully ignore.
	If the ballot in their hands, and those of their masters,
is a fetter, strike it from the hands of both oppressor
and oppressed and we shall not complain; but let Con-
gress pass the infamous Bill of insidious class legisla-
tion now pending, and the Nation shall witness a cla-
mor compared to which that over the back-salary steal
was mere child’s play.”
	We do not envy Mrs. Duniway the “acquaint-
ance and friendship,” of one who could descend
to such misstatements and direct falsehoods.
We presume he had good reasons for wishing
his name withheld from publication. Perhaps
it was that he felt himself unable to withstand
the keen shafts of Truth which might be point-
ed at him from the “Deseret News.” Or that
he dreaded the idea of falling under the good-
natured, but well-aimed criticisms of the “Salt
Lake Herald.” It is quite as well for him, at
all events, that he is a coward as well as tra-
ducer. For it is possible that some of those
women, who have been “reduced to mere
THINGS through the system of polygamy,”
have still sufficient fire left in their composi-
tion, to make Salt Lake too warm for such a
villifier of their purity and intelligence.
	But we are surprised, mortified and indig-
nant that Mrs. D.—a WOMAN—a well-informed,
sensible woman, should allow herself to be so
easily led to so far concur in sentiments intend-
ed to prove the inferiority of her sex. Why
did she not answer this calumniator of woman’s
worth, in the language of a true, brave de-
fender of honor and of woman? Was he not
basely maligning her sisters at Salt Lake, and,
indeed, casting indignities upon her sex in gen-
eral, by his inferences? That TEN THOUSAND
WOMEN, already possessed of the high power of
franchise—for which they are all contending—
would be tamely, meanly submissive to debas-
ing and degrading injuries from three thousand
men, is an insult to WOMAN, besides being a
burlesque on common sense. We should cer-
tainly suppose that any woman could readily
perceive that this false character is no defender
of woman’s virtue, no advocate of her rights;
but that he seeks to hide his littleness, under a
thin covering of sophistry. If there exists a
serpent with a venomous tooth in Utah, it is
with such as himself, who would take from
woman the legitimate rights, which the spirit
of truth and liberty has confered.
	It is not the subject but our space which we
have exhausted for the present.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	HARPER'S MONTHLY for this month, con-
tains illustrated articles on the Light-houses,
and the Observatories of the United States,
also other reading, suited to almost every taste.
For sale at Campbell & Patterson’s, Main St.
	A DIRECTORY of Salt Lake City and Utah
Territory, to be edited by Mr. E. L. Sloan, and


issued by the S. L. Herald Publishing Co., is
announced. The work is in competent hands
and as it will be one of great and general bene-
fit it is respectfully desired that every facility
for obtaining correct information of names,
residences, etc., be extended to canvassers.

	THE MEMBERS of the new City Council, ex-
cepting two not present, were sworn into office
at the regular meeting on the evening of the
17th ult. 

	THE ANNIVERSARY of Washington's birth-
day falling on Sunday this year, Monday the
23rd was observed as a holiday instead. Al-
though there were no public ceremonies in
honor of the occasion, business was generally
suspended, and the "Star Spangled Banner"
floated from many public buildings and places
of business. Quietness amd peace prevailed
during the day.

	WE LEARN from recent communications to
the S. L. Herald that workmen from Franklin,
Weston, Lewiston and Oxford, in Cache Co.,
are energetically grading on the U. N. R. R., as
fast as weather will permit. The officers and
employees are highly commended for their “en-
ergy, courtesy and attention to their duties.”
We are also pleased to notice in the same paper
a well deserved compliment paid to the con-
ductor on the Utah Central.

	THE TWENTY-FIRST Session of the Legisla-
ture of Utah, closed at 6 o’clock A. M., on Sat-
urday, Feb. 21st. the members having been at
work the previous night. At the joint session
towards the close, and during election of offi-
cers, on motion of Mr. Mann, Miss Joan M.
Campbell and Miss Georgiana Snow were elect-
ed Notaries Public for Salt Lake County. The
ladies of Utah should be fast preparing them-
selves to occupy responsible and worthy posi-
tion; and it is gratifying to know that many of
them are taking advantage of every opportu-
nity presented for this purpose.


FROM DIXIE.
		ST.GEORGE, Feb. 8th, 1874

DEAR EXPONENT.—
	We are all well, and enjoying ourselves.
Our principle enthusiasm is now about the
Temple. Seven hundred and thirty cords of
black rock have been hauled on the ground,
and all laid except about thirty cords. The
remainder of the black rock will be used for
the footing of the columns inside of the
Temple. There is about two hundred cords
of beautiful red sandstone already on the
ground. The quarry is open for a quarter
of a mile, making room for the hands to
work, who have left the black rock quarry.
	St. George and Washington had a Sunday
School jubilee in the Tabernacle here, yes-
terday. It was a highly creditable affair,
showing that the Sunday School Teachers
have not spent their time in vain. By the
examination of the classes, it was evinced
that they understood doctrine and history,
taught in the Bible, Book of Mormon and
Doctrine and Covenants, as well as the his-
tory of the Church from its rise, also the set-
tling of this Southern country. Among the
prizes awarded were one hundred Hymn
Books, thirteen bound volumes of the Juve-
nile Instructor, thirty Books of Mormon,
fifty Catechisms, twenty-five Readers and
Primers, and several hundred cards and
portraits. The County Superintendent is
Elder Miles P. Romney.
	The weather is fine; people are making
gardens. Truly yours,
			BATHSHEBA W. SMITH.


FOLLIES.

	To think that the more a man eats the fatter and
stronger he will become.
	To believe that the more hours children study at
school the faster they learn.
	To conclude that if exercise is good for the health,
the more violent and exhausting it is the more good
is done.
	To imagine that every hour taken from sleep is
an hour gained.
	To act on the presumption that the smallest room
in the house is large enough to sleep in.
	To commit an act which is felt in itself to be
prejudicial, hoping that, somehow, or other it may
be done in your case with impunity.
	To advise another to take a remedy which you
have tried yourself, without making inquiry as to
whether the conditions are alike.
	To eat without an appetite, or to continue to eat
after it has been satisfied, merely to gratify the
taste.


NEGLECT OF DUTY.

	The lesson of the pestilence at Memphis
and Shreveport is plain and simple. The
prevalence of the disease is directly traced
to official neglect of duty. During the sum-
mer the streets were full of reeking filth,
and some alley-ways had not been cleansed
for months. Nothing seemed to arouse
those in authority to a sense of the danger,
until the fearful harvest of neglect was
reaped in the early autumn. The usual pop-
ulation of Shreveport is said to have been
about 10,000 in summer and 14,000 in win-
ter. During the prevalence of the fever it
was not over 4,500.
	Neglect of duty costs, and the cost must
be paid. Sight drafts do not always come
in the shape in which they were presented
at Shreveport, but they come sooner or
later. If we do not elect good men to make
laws for us and the proper officers to execute
them, we must smart for this neglect of
duty.—Ex.


TWELVE GOOD RULES.

	1. Cultivate an equable temper; many a
man has fallen dead in a fit of passion.
	2. Eat regularly, not over thrice a day.
	3. Go to bed at regular hours. Get up as
soon as you wake yourself, and do not sleep
in the day time, at least not longer than ten
minutes.
	4. Work always by the day and not by
the job.
	5. Stop working before you are very much
tired—before you are "fagged out."
	6. Cultivate a generous and accommodat-
ing temper.
	7. Never cross a bridge before you come
to it; this will save you half the trouble of
life.
	8. Never eat when you are not hungry,
nor drink when you are not thirsty.
	9. Let your appetite always come unin-
vited.
	10. Cool off in a place greatly warmer
than that in which you have been exercis-
ing; this simple rule would prevent incalcu-
lable sickness and save millions of lives
every year.
	11. Never resist a call of nature.
	12. Never allow yourself to be chilled
"through and through;" it is this which de-
stroys so many every year, in a few days'
sickness, from pneumonia, called by some
lung fever or inflammation of the lungs.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[For the EXPONENT.]
	     "SISTERLY FRIENDSHIP."

Give me the pure friendship of sisterly love
'Tis the sweet, balmy dew, shed from flowers above;
'Tis the virgin's trimmed lamp, to lighten the way
To a garden of flowers, e'er green, bright and gay.
It will search the dark caverns, of hopeless despair,
And soothe and encourage hearts wearied with care;
It is music to charm the wild nature in man,
A pure gem that sparkles as nothing else can.
'Tis a shield for the young in the battle with strife,
And gives warmth like the sun, in the winter of life;
It gently forewarns, when temptation looks sweet,
And cautions us kindly, of thorns near our feet;
And smiling through tears of dark sorrow and grief,
It unselfishly renders our troubles relief.
Ah! yes, with meek Mercy's vail, Scorn's frown 'twill
	screen,
In Charity's modest cloak often 'tis seen.
Crossing deserts and oceans and mountains of snow,
To bless and encourage, where'er we may go.

Oh yes! It will come from its pure spirit home
To tell us of happiness shortly to come.--
Dear Sister Ellen in robes of fair flowers,
Came whispering to me of true friendship "like ours."
The flowers in wreaths, were all linked like a chain,
Thus forming robes gorgeous, yet simple and plain.
Oh! The beauty and lovliness none can express,
As my Ellen appeared in her bright spirit dress:
And with the sweet comfort she poured in my heart,
All the wealth of the world could not cause me to part:
She called her fair flower robe, perfect and sweet,
Emblematic of sisterly friendship complete.
When safe "o'er the river," in that home of flowers,
We'll twine wreaths for robes for dear sisters of ours;
The chain of true friendship will link all pure hearts,
And its balm will heal wounds from all envious darts.
And this grand, eternal pow'r never will end--
I ask no gem richer than a pure sister-friend.
							M. O. KELTING.


[Column 1]
			HOUSEHOLD HINTS

	If the first duty of the woman lies at home, it is
the duty of the man to provide the home, and pro-
tect and sustain her in it. Moreover, as man is
king in his domain, so woman should be queen in
hers—the home should be her kingdom; she should
be the disburser of the revenues supplied by the
man, and made responsible for the exercise of her
powers for the general prosperity of her domain and
the welfare and happiness of her subjects.
	The love of beauty and refinement belongs to
every true woman. She ought to desire, in modera-
tion, pretty dresses, and delight in beautiful colors
and graceful fabrics; she ought to take a certain,
not too excessive, pride in herself, and be solicitous
to have all belonging to her well-chosen and in good
taste: to care for the perfect ordering of her house,
and harmony and fitness of her furniture, the clean-
liness of her surroundings, and good style of her
arrangements; she ought not to like singularity,
either of habit or appearance, or be able to stand
out against a fashion when fashion has become cus-
tom: she ought to make herself conspicuous only by
the perfection of her taste, by the grace and harmo-
ny of her dress, and unobtrusive good-breeding of 
her manners: she ought to set the seal of gentlewo-
man on every square inch of her life, and shed the
radiance of her own beauty and refinement on every
material object about her.—Selected.
							[For the EXPONENT
	Grandma's "Dutch Cake".—Take one half tea-
cup full of good yeast, one cup of sugar, three eggs,
two spoonfulls of shortening, one cup of raisins, or
dried grapes, one cup of warm, sweet milk or water,
and flour enough to make a thick batter; let it stand
and rise and bake like bread; you will find it good
eating and not unhealthy				M. O. K.

	Meat Toast.—Take as much meat as you require
and mince finely. To one pint of mince put two
tablespoonfuls of cream, or fresh, rich milk. Boil
it five minutes; prepare well buttered toast, and
spread the mince on them. Strew over this
well grated bread crumbs, a little parsley if desired,
and some small pieces of butter. Brown in a quick
oven and serve hot.

	To Cure a Cold.—Mother K. is nearly ninety years
of age, has a voice like a ship's captain, and her

[Column 2]
cure for a cold is so good and simple I must tell you
about it. Cut an onion in slices, add salt, pepper
and a little piece of butter with a half pint of wa-
ter. Stew until the onion is done. Drink the liquor
hot, when going to bed. It will cause the sweetest
sleep; and three times trying will cure, if taken as
soon as the cold is. By putting in a little honey or
sugar instead of the seasoning, you have a pleasant
tea. Please try it.

	Recipe for Crystalizing Grasses.—Get one pound 
of alum, dissolve in one quart of water scalding
hot; pour into a wide crock and put your grass inside
holding the stem in your hand for ten minutes, then
turn them over and rest or wait for five or ten min-
utes more; turn them again and so on until the wa-
ter is nearly cold; then lay them out to dry. The
water ca nbe heated again and used in the same way
for smaller grasses. The largest should be used first.
Grasses treated in this way and mixed with some
that have not been so treated, make a very nice
boquet.—H. V.

	Peas' Cake.--Look over and wash one pint of dry,
white marrow-fat peas (whole or split); add two
quarts of water cover close and stew gently, until
the peas are quite reduced to a pulp; strain through
a course sieve or a colander; salt to the taste, and 
pour into a flat dish to the depth of an inch or more;
let this stand to cool several hours, or until it is quite
firm; cut in short, slices half an inch thick, and serve
cold, as a relish, wlth bread and butter and stewed
fruit. It is palatable, nutritious and wholesome,
provided one does not eat too much. Cooked in
steam, or in a double boiler, it requires less water.

	To Color Azure Blue.--This will not fade on
cotton. For three pounds of goods; use of copperas
4 ozs; prussiate of potash, 2 ozs; oil vitriol, 1 oz;
dissolve the copperas in two pails of soft water; and
scald the goods in this solution two hours, then take
out and rinse in cold water. Empty the kettle and
put in two pails of clean water. Dissolve in it the
prussiate of potash; boil the goods in this solution
twenty minutes; take out and stir in the oil of vit-
riol. Again put in the goods and let them remain
until as dark as desired. Rinse thoroughly in cold
water and let it dry; afterwards wash in soap suds
and this color will not fade.


DOMESTIC ECONOMY.

	Jesus said "Gather up the fragments that
nothing be lost." It has been said truthfully,
by some writer, that the pride and extrava-
gance of some women when indulged in,
would bankrupt a nation. Upon the same prin-
ciple, a state a county or a family would be in-
volved. If every person could realize that
to be in debt is bondage—according to the
law of ancient Israel, they are servants un-
til their debts are paid. If this law was un-
derstood, how few there are who would be
willing to go in debt beyond their means.
Instead of the wife or the daughters teasing
father for the ten dollar bonnet or dress, we
should hear; "Oh! dear Papa, if you are not
able to afford it, I can make out with one
that costs only five." And the true wife and
mother would say, "Yes my dear, you are a
good girl and you will feel a great deal bet-
ter in a plain calico dress than you would in
a silk one that was not paid for."
	Some women are like children, they want
every thing they see, whether they need it
or not. A Prophet of God has said, "Eat
less and wear less, and you will have more
time to cultivate the mind. The body with-
out the spirit is dead, but the spirit without
the body is life and immortality. How nec-
essary it is then that we cultivate and adorn
the immortdl as well as the mortal. An
ancient Apostle said, "To be carnally mind-
ed is death but to be spiritually minded is
life and peace."				W. E.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	The Tichborne Claimant has already cost
the Government of England the small sum
of $2,500,000.
	Three gentlemen are in the field for Gov-
ernor of Vermont—Bradley Barlow, a
banker, N. T. Sprague, Jr., farmer and manu-
facturer, and T. W. Park, a railroad man.
	James E. Harvey, formerly minister to
Portugal, and more recently editor of the
Washington Patriot, is to be the editor of
the New Age at Philadelphia.
	Rev. Robert Collyer has followed Mr.
Beecher into fiction. "John Watkinson's
Wife" is the subject, and she is at present
installed in the pages of the Lakeside
Monthly.
	King John of Saxony having translated
the best work of the English poets, has
lately been engaged on the poems of Amer-
ican writers. He is a great admirer of the
English language, and requires it to be
taught in the lyceums.
	Love and sorrow in our souls resemble the
fire in some deep mines; it may for a long
time be apparently smothered, we fancy that
it is entirely extinguished, but some sud-
den draught, some ashes dropped, and the
flames, wild and consuming, will break forth
with redoubled fury.—Bremer.
	One of the funniest things in nature is a
council of fashionable youths over a new
coat just brought home. The inspection of
the cloth, bindings and distance of buttons,
anxious examination it the shoulders are
wide enough, the patting in the back, and
walking off in suspense to decide the final
question whether the "tails split," are
enough to set a woman off in unextinguish-
able laughter.
	Of Law there can be no less acknowledged
than that her seat is in the bosom of God,
her voice the harmony of the world, all
things in heaven and earth do her homage,
the very least as feeling her care, and the
greatest as not exempted from her power,
both angels and men and creatures of what
condition soever, though each in different
sort and manner, yet all with uniform con-
sent, admiring her as the mother of their
peace and joy.—Hooker.
	There are many men of superior talents
and refined taste, who, with lively imagina-
tions, and powers of action, not inferior to
those of other people, read a great deal, and
digest what they read, but go no further:
and can never be prevailed upon to turn
their information to account. It is of little
benefit to the world, that a man thinks
deeply and justly, if the results of his re-
searches are applied to no useful end. Con-
templation and action may be compared to
Rachel and Leah; the first was fairest, but
the latter most fruitful.
	No woman now goes to the wash-tubs, or
a fox hunt, to pruning grape vines, garden-
ing, or vegetable growing, with corsets on.
So we hope the day will come when horri-
ble head-dresses, dowdy frills and furbelows,
monstrous bunnets and trailing skirts will
disappear, like other vulgar things, from the
promenade, the street, the church, and such
other public places as are manifestly inap-
propriate for them. There is a time and
place for everything, and ladies only need
to recognize this fact in connection with
their costumes to always dress sensibly and
healthfully.—Home Journal.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


VOCAL CULTURE.

* * * * * * * Until recently the
practical belief has been that the ability to
read or speak well was a gift, not an acquire-
ment.
	No analysis of the subject had been made,
and but few teachers were able to detect the
radical defects in the utterances of pupils,
much less to correct them. Reading books
contained a few exercises in articulation,
emphasis, inflection, pauses &c., and these
accidents were considered the Alpha and
Omega of utterance.
	Now, however, a more careful investiga-
tion of the subject has disclosed the fact
that every vocal expression contains six es-
sential elements, viz.: Form of voice, quali-
ty of voice, force of voice, stress of voice,
pitch of voice, and movement of voice, and
that excellence in reading or speaking con-
sists in a proper use of these six elements;
that from a combination of two or more of
these elements all other attributes of utter-
ance are produced, and that the defects of
reading and speaking are almost entirely the
result of an improper use of one or more of
these six elements.
	The defects in inflection, emphasis, ar-
ticulation, &c., that weaken or destroy the
power of expression are few indeed in com-
parison to the defects in quality, form, stress,
pitch, force and movement. And yet it is,
perhaps, safe to affirm that nine teachers out
of every ten and ninety-nine speakers out of
every hundred can neither define nor illus-
trate form, much less give it application to
the various styles of thought. How one
can read correctly or teach others to read
correctly, a selection the elements of which
he does not understand practically or theo-
retically, is a mystery yet unsolved. No
one would presume to sing a tune, ignorant
of the notes composing the tune, and yet to
read without knowing the elements of utter-
ance is quite as difficult.
	That these elements of expression exist
and are observed by all who have attained
distinction in this department, all will admit
who have attentively observed.
	Booth, Murdoch, Barret, Siddons, Cush-
man, all read pathos with effusive form,
pure tone, subdued force, medium stress,
low pitch, and slow movement; didactic
thoughts with expulsive form, pure tone,
moderate force, radical stress, middle pitch,
and moderate movement; and this they do
because it is in harmony with the principles
of nature—principles established by the
Almighty himself "when the morning stars
sang together and all the sons of God shout-
ed for joy;" principles still exhibited by
Him in every bird that carrols its joyous
song of praise to its Maker, in every hissing
serpent that crawls upon the ground, in
every sighing breeze that murmurs among
the branches, and every angry, roaring tor-
nado that sweeps across our prairies. That
which constitutes the difference in the read-
ing of these distinguished artists is not in
the use of different elements' but the group-
ing of the same elements,
	To read aright, we must determine and
then employ the appropriate elements of
utterance.—"American Journal of Educa-
tion."


THE GOVERNOR of Maine has asked the
Supreme Court for a decision upon the ques-
tion of the legal right of a woman to be a
Justice of the Peace. Wouldn’t the gov-
ernor of Utah prefer to decide all such
questions himself?


REFLECTIONS.

Dear Exponent:
	I would call attention to the 18th chapter
of Revelations—read the whole chapter.
Now, what I wish to say concerning it, is
this:—Are we to understand, as is generally
conceded, that this "fall of Babylon" means
her overthrow and utter destruction; or does
it refer to her departure from the paths of
rectitude, and the principles of rigeteous-
ness, virtue and morality? I think the lat-
ter: and that the sayings therein containted,
strictly personate and declare the present
situation of this American, or Republican
Government. For how—oh how! hath she
fallen! That great city, Babylon. Now
Babylon signifies confusion—mixed:—What
government so confused and mixed as this?
bearing the elements of every other govern-
ment, and the inhabitants of every other
nation. Where have the merchants of all
nations made themselves rich in the traffic
of metals and all merchandise, and in slaves
and souls of men?
	After speaking of her fall, it says in verse
8. "Therefore shall her plagues come in one
day," and tells what they are—"Death and
mourning and famine, and she shall be ut-
terly burned with fire." Then, in the 10th
verse it says "In one hour is thy judgment
come." Also in the 17th verse, "For in one
hour so great riches is come to nought."
We understand that one day with the Lord
is as a thousand years, and one hour, the
twenty-fourth part of a day, or of a thou-
sand years, is forty-one years and two-thirds
of a year.
	Have not the destructions here spoken of
commenced? Was there not "death and
mourning" when Columbia's sons were slain
by thousands and tens of thousands in the 
late internecine war? Is not the earth with
its contents being burned up? Is not the
blood of the prophets found in her? See
24th verse. And if Jerusalem was to be
adjudged guilty of the blood of all the pro-
phets from the days of Able to the death of
Zachariah in their day, how much more shall
this government be charged with the blood
of Prophets, of Saints and all the blood that
has been shed upon the earth! having the ex-
amples of all previous generations:—May
God help us to understand.
							M.


RAILROADS IN ITALY.

	A traveler, who spent much time in Eu-
rope, pronounces the railroads of Italy the
finest in the world. The road beds are al-
most entirely smooth, the embankments are
all of solid masonry, while the bridges are
of cut stone, often built in the most artistic
style. The stations are most magnificent
structures, the waiting rooms being elegantly
frescoed, and the seats of the finest velvet.
At all stations where meals are taken, the
train stops an hour. Every man connected
with a railroad wears a uniform, and his
position is indicated by a badge. Passengers
are shown into carriages by the conductors,
who see that they have a comfortable seat.
The light baggage is carried in for them by
porters. The guard, or conductor, raises his
hat as he politely asks you for your ticket,
and thanks you for your trouble as he returns
it. Accidents are almost entirely unknown
on Italian railroads, and trains arrive at sta-
tions on the minute. The cost of making
and equipping these roads is enormous. The
coal used in generating steam is brought
from England, and costs $10 per ton at sea-
port.


AN INTERESTING PAPER.

	Mr. Editor—Dear Sir: My father cut the
following from a paper printed in Albion,
Orleans Co., N. Y., some forty years ago.
Never having seen it in any other paper, I
will send it to you for a place in your col-
umn of “Religious Reading.—EMMA S. D.,
Albany Co., N. Y.
	“A description of the person of Jesus
Christ as it was found in an ancient manu-
script sent by PUBLIUS LENTULLUS, Presi-
dent of Judea, to the Senate of Rome:
	“There lives at this time, in Judea, a
man of singular character, whose name is
JESUS CHRIST. The barbarians esteem him
as their prophet; but his followers adore
him as the immediate offspring of the im-
mortal God. He is endowed with such un-
paralleled virtue as to call back the dead
from their graves, and to heal every kind of
disease with a word or touch. His person
is tall and elegantly shaped; his aspect amia-
ble and reverent; his hair grows in those
beauteous shades which no united colors can
match, falling in graceful curls below his
ears, agreeably couching on his shoulders
and parting on the crown of his head; his
dress of the sect of Nazarites; his forhead
smooth and large; his cheeks without either
spot, save that of lovely red; his nose and
mouth are formed with exquisite symmetry;
his beard is thick and suitable to the hair
of his head, reaching a little below his chin,
and parting in the middle like a fork; his
eyes are bright, clear and serene. He re-
bukes with mildness, and invites with the
most tender, persuasive language; his whole
address, whether in word or deed being ele-
gant, grave, and strictly characteristic of so
exalted a being. No man has ever seen him
laugh: but the whole world beholds him
weep frequently; and so persuasive are his
tears, that the whole multitude cannot with-
hold their tears from joining in sympathy
with him. He is modest, temperate and
wise. In short, whatever the phenomenon
may turn out in the end, he seems at pres-
ent to be a man of excellent beauty and di-
vine perfections, every way surpasing
men.'"—"Rural New Yorker."


THE SEX.

	Four hundred women have enlisted in
the temperance movement at Xenia, Ohio.
	Mrs. Benjamin Wood recently appeared
at a charity ball wearing only $40,000 worth
of diamonds and point lace.
	Mrs. Maxwell is engrossing clerk, Mrs.
Elliott is postmaster, and Mrs. Quixon is
paper-folder for the Iowa Legislature.
	Samuel A. Adams was recently granted a
divorce by a Vermont court "on account of
the intolerable severity of his wife Sarah."
	At the seige of Ancona in the eleventh
century, the city was more grievously press-
ed with famine than by the arms of the be-
seigers. A woman heart-broken by the ex-
haustion of her two sons, and hopeless of
other relief opened a vein in her left arm;
and having prepared and disuguised the
blood which flowed from it with spices and
condiments (for these luxuries still abound-
ed,) as if to mock the cravings of that hun-
ger which had slight need of any further
stimulant than its own sad necessity, pre-
sented them with the beverage—thus pro-
longing the existence of her children, like
the bird of which similar tenderness is
fabled, even at the price of that tide of life
by which her own was supported.—History
of Italy.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

			Millard County.
	  ,,	Delilah Oleson, Fillmore,
	  ,,	Belinda M. Pratt, 	,,
	Miss Mary Callister,	,,
			Beaver County.
	Mrs. Ruth Tyler, Beaver,
			Iron County.
	  ,,	Mary Weimer, Parowan,
	Miss Josephine Smith,	,,
	Mrs. Ellen Lunt, Cedar City.
	  ,,	Mary Ann Lunt, Cedar City.
			Kane County.
	Mrs. Sophia Parker, Kanarra,
			Washington County.
	  ,,	Caroline Jackson, St. George.
	  ,,	Elizabeth Canfield, Hamlin's Fort.


﻿				AGENTS.

				Salt Lake City.
Mrs. Zina D. Young,	Mrs. Elvira Barney,
  "	Margt. P. Young,	  "	Amanda Kimball
  "	Lily Staines,		  "	Elizabeth Davis,
  "	Sarah Smith,		  "	Hampton, 16th
  "	Mary J.Thomson,			Ward,
  "	Margaret Steel,	  "	Sarah E. Smith,
		     Miss Sarah E. Russell.
			     Weber County,
	Mrs. A. M. Frodsham, Ogden,
	  “	Caroline Lunn, Huntsville,
	Miss Maggie McBride, Eden,
		       Oneida County, Idaho.
	Mrs. Orissa Allred, St. Charles,
	  "	Mary Rich, Paris.
			Rich County
	  "	Ann E. Cook, Swan Creek.
	  "	Emily Woodruff, Randolph.
			Cache County.
	  "	M. A. Maughan, Logan,
	  "	Jane S. Coleman, Smithfield.
	  "	H. A. Shaw, Hyrum.
	  “	Maria Parkinson, Wellsville. 
			Box Elder County.
	  "	Harriet Snow, Brigham City.
			Davis County.
	  "	Mary Clark, Farmington,
	  "	Aurelia Rogers,     "
	  "	Margaret Randell, CentrevilIe,
	  "	Elizabeth Barlow, Bountiful,
	  "	Susan Grant,		     "
	  "	Sylvia Clark,		     "
			Salt Lake County.
	  "	—— Higgins, West Jordan,
	  "	Barbara Moses, Big Cottonwood.
			Tooele County.
	Mrs. J. De La Mare, Tooele City.
	Mrs. E. Clegg,
	Mrs. M. A. House, Grantsville.
			Utah County.
	  "	—— Brown, Pleasant Grove,
	  "	Ann Bringhurst, Springville,
	  "	—— Harrison, 	    "
	  "	Margaret T. Smoot, Provo City,
	  "	Rebecca Standering, Lehi.
			Juab County.
	  "	Amelia Goldsbrough, Nephi.
	  "	Ann Pitchforth,		"
	  "	Martha J. Coray, Mona,
	  "	Amy L. Bigler, Nephi.
			Sanpete County.
	  "	M. A. P. Hyde, Spring City.
	  "	Sarah Peterson, Ephraim,
	  "	Helena Madison, Gunnison.
	Mrs. Boel Peterson, Ephraim.
	Mrs. Mary Thorpe, 		"


RIGHTS VERSUS OBLIGATIONS.

	A man's wife is very often the real promo-
ter of his public actions, yet it is an ex-
tremely small minority of women who have
anything that deserves the name of a con-
science on public affairs. How could a wo-
man have a conscience about public affairs if
she were taught to believe that they were no
concern of hers? Give women the same
rights as men, and the same obligations
would follow. Another reason is the vast
amount of brain power and practical busi-
ness talent which now lie waste for want of
outlet into that great field of usefulness, in
which no one would pretend that such quali-
ties were not very much wanted. The whole
movement of modern society from the mid-
dle ages until now, and which has been great-
ly accelerated in the present century, points
in the direction of the political enfranchise-
ment of women. Their expulsion is the last
remnant of the old state of society. The
regime of privileges and disabilities, and
of all monopolies, is gone or going, and the
whole spirit of the time is against prede-
termining by law that one set of persons
should be allowed by right of birth to have
and to do what others are not by any amount
of exertion or superiority of talent allowed
to retain.—John Stuart Mill.


GRACE OF MOTION.

	There is no gainsaying the beauty and
general fascination of American women, but
some of them are lamentably deficient in a
certain finish of manner. They are graceful,
but too quick in their motions to achieve
readily that admirable repose and distinc-
tion of bearing which is so indicative of
education and good-breeding.
	The first law of a lady's code is to move
slowly. The importance of its observance
is hardly at first apparent. It enables her,
however, to retain her presence of mind, to
be always on the watch, never to commit a
blunder, not get vulgarly excited, and never
to seem in a hurry.
	Slow motion is especially necessary upon
occasions of ceremony, in getting in and
out of a carriage, ascending a flight of steps,
or traversing the length of a room in the
presence of other persons. One is often
shocked by seeing ladies in rich dresses, and
even with trains, trip up and down steps,
across pavements, and in and out of car-
riages, in a conscious way that indicates very
brief possession of state appliances, and so
unerring is the indication of inaptitude that
even a street crowd will jeer at this evidence
of want of habit and training.—Selected.


A MEDALLION IN BUTTER.

	There is exhibited in St. Louis just now a
curious bit of work in amateur art. This is
a medallion of a sleeping face, very well
executed it is said, not in clay nor marble,
but in butter. It came from the head and
hands of an Arkansas farmer's wife, who
caught the idea while busy in her dairy.
She made a quantity of studies with the
aid of her butter paddle, cedar sticks, broom-
straws and a camel's hair pencil, and at last
succeeded in modeling a really creditable
head. It is ingeniously mounted in a milk-
pan, which in turn is framed. There is
something pathetic in the endeavor of this
untaught, hard-working woman, to use her
natural talent in the intervals of buttermak-
ing and dish-washing.


﻿CORSETS AND CHRISTIANITY.—A lady who
had charge of a girl's Bible class, speaking
of defective home training, said that her
best pupil, 18 years of age, had caused her
the most acute anxiety. Rain or shine she
was always at her post. The girl's whole
soul seemed absorbed in the straightening
out of intricate theological problems; "and
yet," said the teacher," the girl was so pale
and wan that I was afraid every Sabbath
would be her last in the class. One day she
fainted, and in trying to restore her I loosed
her dress, and what do you think I found?
Corsets so tightly drawn that a full respira-
tion was impossible. I removed them and
found that the girl's ribs actually lapped!
I took her to her mother, a very prominent
and useful church member, and stated the
case without reserve. "Well, you see," said
the parent, "Fanny never had any figure.
I shonldn't be surprised if the lacings were
drawn a little too tight. Her waist is nat-
urally so large that it is almost impossible
to make anything fit genteely on her. How
is your class prospering, Miss——? I hope
you are drawing many souls to Christ."

	In Dresden the ladies are combining to
regulate the price of groceries, meats, and
what they are dressed in.


MRS. H. K. PAINTER, M. D.
			ELECTRIC PHYSICIAN.
		Electricity administered when cases requre.
	Office, East side of Second East Street, one and a hal
blocks south of Theatre, Salt Lake City.
MARY H. BARKER M. D.,
Office  opposite. Old Constitution Building, Main
Street. Office hours—10 a. m. to 3 p. m. 
MRS. CARPENTER,
		Physician and Surgeon,
Office at the Townsend House, Room No. 50
			H. DINWOODEY
Has removed his Furniture from Main St. to his three
			storey Brick Store on
FIRST SOUTH ST. 1/2 BLOCK WEST OF CO-OP. CORNER,
		Where he is prepared to do a 
WHOLESALE AS WELL AS A RETAIL BUSINESS.
H WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies 
to purchase.
			NEW CLUB RATES.
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the
part of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of
the EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects con-
templated in its publication, by making it truly an
exponent of the view of the women of Utah, sus-
tained by them, read by them, and its columns
enriched with a widely circulated expression of their
thoughts, we offer the following terms to clubs, so as
to prepare for increasing the value and importance of
the paper with the beginning of the next volume,
which a larger subscription list will enable us to do:
10 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club	-	-	-	-	$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club	-	-	-	-	 20 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter  
	up of the club and a framed steel engrav-
	ing, 12x16 inches, of President Brigham
	Young, selling price, $2 50 -	-	34 00
30 copies. 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club, and a superior first proof, 
	steel engraving of President Brigham
	Young. handsomely framed, selling
	price. $4		-	-	-	-	48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time; and addi-
tions can be made after the first list of names has
been sent.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the
risk of the publishers.
	We hope ladies throughout the Territory, especial-
ly the Presidents and Secretaries of Relief Societies
will endeavor to get up clubs, and that they will con-
stitute themselves agents for the extension of the
circulation of the EXPONENT.


Woman's Exponent.
