VOL. 2. 		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 15, 1874. 		NO. 20.


﻿EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE WOMEN'S temperance crusade in Ohio
and Indiana is unabated.

	THE LIFE of Agassiz, written by his wife,
is now completed and ready for the press.
The lady has been employed on it for several
years. It will doubtless prove a work of
great interest and value.

	STEPHEN AND Abby Foster, of Worces-
ter, Massachusetts, lately allowed a valua-
ble homestead, belonging to them, to be sold
at auction for one hundred dollars. And at
sixty-five years of age they are cast adrift
in the world, with no other dependence than
their own work and that of a noble daugh-
ter. All because they refused to sustain
taxation without representation. Every
good and just cause has its heroic votaries.

	MRS. LEONARD and Mrs. Chickering of
Boston, speak in favor of a separate prison
for women. The latter states that 4,000
women are yearly being committed to the
jails in Massachusetts, and coming out rarely
or never better, generally worse. Such an
estimate, if correct, should justify imme-
diate, favorable action on the part of the
Prison Committee, to whom a petition from
the ladies has been made.

	THE RAISING of frogs for market has been
proposed, as the demand so much exceeds
the supply that they are becoming scarce.
Seth Green believes "there is nothing made
in vain" and even the stagnant pools might
be converted into frog ponds; also that "It
would make the man wealthy who could
raise a million frogs and get them to mar-
ket." After reading Mr. Green's experi-
ence for two years, in which he mentions
the numerous dangers besetting the infan-
tile frogs, we concluded it might cost a
small fortune to get them there.

	EX-PRESIDENT MILLARD Fillmore died
on the 8th inst., at his residence in Buffalo,
New York. President Grant, on the 9th,
announced the event to the country; eulo-
gized the deceased, and ordered the Execu-
tive Mansion and public departments to be
draped in mourning also that suitable mili-
tary and naval honors be paid on the occasion
as a token of respect for the memory of the
ex-President. Mr. Fillmore's name was in-
timately connected with the early history of
this Territory, having signed the bill creat-
ing it, and  appointed its first governor. In
honor to him, one of its counties is called
Millard, while the seat thereof, once the
Territory's capital, is known as the city of
Fillmore.


Girls who place all their dependence on
pink and white beauty ought to remember
what N. P. Willis once wrote on the power
of education to beautify—that it absolutely
chiselled the features; that he had seen
many a clumsy nose and thick pair of lips
so modified by thought awakened and active
sentiment as to be unrecognizable. And he
put it on the ground that we so often see
people homely and unattractive in youth,
bloom in middle life into a softened Indian
Summer of good looks and mellow tones.


MEDICAL EDUCATION FOR WOMEN IN
PARIS.—A Boston paper, of a date evidently
previous to the collapse of the Napoleonic
dynasty, says; "The Empress is at last go-
ing to have a wish dear to her heart real-
ized—the foundation of a free medical col-
lege, for ladies, in Paris. The supporters of
the plan are Nelaton, Milne-Eduards, and
ex-Minister of Public Instruction Duruy.
Three-fourths of the parishes of France are
without a 'medicine man;' the Sisters of
Charity, with their stock of simples, is all
the healing art within reach; and though
the law is very severe against unlicensed
practitioners, it winks at the substitutes cre-
ated by necessity. Sweden has taken the
lead in this matter, and by the cures of the
doctresses a sensible diminution has been
the result in the death-rate of the rural
populations." Here is an acknowledgment
which is of some value to lady-physicians,
especially in the way of encouraging them
to persevere in so useful a department of
effort.


Mrs. Prescott, an intelligent and educated
half-breed, appeared before the Committee
on State Affairs of the Wisconsin Legisla-
ture, to plead for the Winnebagoes. She
asked how the whites would like the treat-
ment some of the Indians had received were
the case reversed.


[Column 1]
			A LETTER,
			EROM J. R.
		GLENDALE, Feb. 12th, 1874.
MRS. L. GREENE RICHARDS,
	Dear Friend:—On the first of this month
I visited Kanab, to give a parting word to
Bro. John L. Blythe and the brethren who
go with him on a mission to Arizona. If I
did not know that God is with us—and if I
had never seen His power made manifest in
making the feeble strong—my heart would
be filled with fear for this humble band of
brethren: As it is—they are full of hope,
faith, and energy; and I believe they will
be blessed of the Lord, and find happy
homes in the much dreaded land of the
Colorado. Here I will leave them, and turn
my thoughts toward fulfilling the promise I
gave you so long ago.
	On the 5th of October, 1869, a small com-
pany of men, under the Presidency of Jacob
Hamblin—the famous “Indian Man”—left
Kanab with the intention of visiting the
Moquis Indians, Our first day's ride of 25
miles, brought us to the Western foot of the
Buck skin Mountain. The country passed
over, was covered with sage brush and
scrubby cedars, no running water. We
found a few “Pockets”—holes in rocks—fill-
ed with rain water. These "Pockets," in
the winter and rainy seasons, abound all
over Southern Utah, and some parts of Ari-
zona.
	We camped near a band of Piedes. Their
medicine man "pow-wow'ed" all night over
one of their Braves who was accidentally
wounded a few days before, while hunting
deer; the thigh bone was badly broken, and
the bullet still in his body. The following
day three Piedes of this band went with us
as guides.
[Column 2]
	I was much pleased with the scenery of
the Buckskin mountain. The western as-
cent is gradual, free from rock, and hence
favorable for wagon roads. The excellent
groves of pine poles and saw timber are
cheering to the eye. We traveled 16 miles
in a south-easterly direction, and came to
the Eastern slope. This descent is steep and
rocky. Four miles from the "Jump off,"
we find the House spring. The water, a
small, pure stream, gushes from a cove in a
purple mountain. The facilities for winter-
ing stock are excellent, but too small for
farming.
	Oct. 7th, we moved 12 miles, direction
south-east, keeping close under a high pur-
ple mountain; heavy sand the entire dis-
tance. We nooned at Jacob’s Pool—so
named because there is a good place to make
a pool—a small spring affording water barely
sufficient for our horses; wood scarce. We
found the boat, left there by Jacob Hamblin
in 1860, in a demoralized condition. The
lumber was sound, but the nails were all
gone, and the boards sadly warped. We
held a council and resolved to rest there for
the night; and agreed to divorce the boat,
"Pride of the West" forever! The boys
made several large paddles from boards
taken from the boat; these we carried on
our pack horses to the river.
	On the 8th we made an early start. Our
trail still kept close to the foot of the moun-
tain. That day we doubled the Purple
Promontory and swung round to the North.
	The portion of country there is very
sandy, and often broken by deep, rock
bound gullies. For 12 miles there was
plenty of grass, then the soil changed from
sand to purple or blue clay—at times cover-
ed with thin slate rock, but the greater part
soft and dusty like an ash heap. Our horses
often sinking to their knees in this dry
mineral. Thirteen miles on, we reached
Soap Creek, a small stream impregnated
with alkali, and other poisons, rendering it
unfit for use. From here we passed on two
miles and halted for dinner.
	From this camping place on, we found no
feed until we reached the Colorado, near the
mouth of the Pah-reah; and the road was
very bad, deep washes in considerable num-
bers, and very dusty.
	We passed Boulder Point—so named from
the fact that there are many boulders from
10 to 20 feet in hight and nearly square,
poised upon a small column of clay, 6 or 8
feet high, wind and water having evidently
washed the rest of the earth away. As we
neared the river, the mountains were tower-
ing high and close to each other. Just be-
fore sunset the scene presented was wild and
romantic but of a dark, death like shading.
We camped on the banks of the Colorado,
having traveled 25 miles.
	October 9th. Peter Shirts or any other man
is welcome to the Pah-reah. At the mouth
thereof, there is no timber, no farm-
ing land, and the water seems always to be
muddy.
	At this point the Colorado is about 250
yards wide. We spent the day in construct-
ing a raft, and in rafting ourselves over.
We made eight trips, and succeeded in
reaching the eastern shore with the loss of
two horses.
			To be continued.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[For the EXPONENT.
			RETROSPECTION.

				By M. J. T.

	A good wife sat in her kitchen door,
	Her face was faded, and old and poor;
	Her hands were weary, and wanted rest,
	As she folded them silently on her breast.
	And her heart was sad as she sat and thought
	Of the many days she had plannned and wrought,
	Of the socks she’d knit, and the clothes she’d made
	For the little ones that around her played.
	How, early and late she had ever strove
	With heart, and hands in the labors of love,
	To train the minds and to guide the feet
	In the ways of righteousness pure and sweet;
	And her footsteps were ceaseless many a day,
	For the little hands at their merry play.

	But all alone she was sitting there,
	And her heart was weary and full of care:
	For the little feet from the garden stile
	Had wandered many a weary mile;
	And the mother’s hope and the father’s pride
	Were fondly set on the boy that died,
	With the laughing eye and the curly hair,
	With the will to do and the heart to dare.
	No more would the bright young faces come
	To brighten with sunshine their early home;
	The hopes and joys she had cherished then
	Might never gladden her heart again!
	But her eye lit up with a tender smile
	As she thought of him who had shared her toil,
	The hopes and cares of her weary lot,
	Her heart grew glad and she murmured not.

	For she thought of the days when she was fair,
	With a merry face and golden hair;
	When he stood so proudly by her side,
	And press’d her to his heart—a bride.
	But years had come and years had gone,
	And the blooming bride was aged and wan;
	For time and sickness and wearying care
	Had faded her cheek and blanched her hair.
	But he who had loved her a youthful bride,
	Still held her tenderly by his side;
	And he said, to him she was far more fair
	Than the dainty daughters of fashion were.
	She had walked by his side for many years,
	She had shared his joys, his hopes and fears,
	And he still would clasp her to his heart
	And hold her there until death should part.


R. S. REPORTS.

HEBER  CITY, WASATCH CO., Feb. 26th, 1874
EDITOR WOMAN’S EXPONENT:—
	The Relief Society which was instituted
by President Joseph Smith, years ago, and
has been reorganized by President Brigham
Young, I view as one of the most sacred
and glorious organizations ever established.
For in it is given to us, to find employment
and means of support for the poor, to visit
the sick and administer to their wants, to
prove ourselves in various ways, that our
faith and works may be blended together.
Living in harmony with each other and
each moving in her own proper sphere. I
also rejoice in reading of the organizations
of the young in different parts of the Terri-
tory; and feel that inestimable good will be
the result, where these associations are pro-
perly conducted and encouraged.
						ELLEN LEE.


[Column 1]
	﻿SAFEGUARDS TO PURITY.

	There are many parents who fancy that
they can bring up their children, and espe-
cially their daughters, in a large degree ig-
norant of the evil that is in the world. As
the king in the fairy tale banished all spin-
ning wheels from his dominions, that his
daughter might not wound her fingers with
a spindle, and realize the prophecy of the
spiteful fairy at her christening, even so
mothers withhold useful and necessary
knowledge from their daughters, lest with
it may be mingled something leading to
harm. And even as this charming princess,
notwithstanding every precaution, as by
accident came upon the only spinning wheel

[Column 2]
in the realm, was wounded by the spindle,
and fell into her hundred-years’ slumber, so
often does the young lady unawares, stum-
ble upon experiences of whose possible exis-
tence she never dreamed, and which are
far more disastrous to her than those that
befell, the sleeping beauty.
	Boys and girls as they grow will learn the
ins and outs of this wicked world. If their
parents do not give them this knowledge,
somebody else will, and the manner in
which the information is given is in all
moral respects vastly more important than
the matter. The parent may instruct the
child in everything it should know, satisfy
its curiosity within proper limits, and thus
pre-occupy the ground that otherwise would
be sown by chance cultivators more with
tares of vice than with the wheat of know-
ledge.
	It is simply astonishing how soon young
children pick up slang words, vile words,
profane words, and attach to them mean-
ings. It is equally surprising how instinc-
tively they conceal all this knowledge from
their parents, and while the mother thinks
her little girl a model of innocence and
purity, her neighbor may know that such is
very far from being the case. Therefore it
is not possible for the mother to cultivate
too great an intimacy with her child. She
should have the juvenile heart spread out
before her as a mirror, reflecting every
thought, every feeling, every passion of the
child. Thus she will be able judiciously to
administer antidotes to vice and build up
safeguards to virtue.
	Girls are as a general rule brought up in
ignorance of very much which it most con-
cerns them to know. Many a young lady
dances on the verge of a precipice, not
knowing her danger, and many fall from
virtue because their mothers had not the
courage to warn them of the pitfalls in their
pathway, and the steps leading thitherward.
The love of purity, like the love of know-
ledge and the love of fame, grows by what
it feeds on, and dies if it have not suitable
nutriment. The girl and the boy who have
steadily held up before their eyes an ideal
of high and pure womanhood and manhood,
who are taught from early childhood that
their bodies and their souls are alike sacred
to purity, will hardly fail to realize in ma-
turity the highest wishes of their parents in
these respects. Heroic virtue is never the
result of ignorance in man or woman. We
who know the shoals along the entrance to
mature life should build lighthouses on
sunken reefs, plant buoys in dangerous
places, and build life-boats for the rescue of
the shipwrecked.
	In his prayer for his disciples, Christ said,
“I pray not that thou shouldst take them
out of the world, but that thou shouldst
keep them from the evil.” Purity is not
inconsistent with knowledge of evil, and as
soon as a child is old enough to wander from
the right way, he should be instructed in
the dangers that are most likely to befall
him, and the way in which they can be
avoided.
	When there is a perfect understanding be-
tween parents and children; when the
daughter feels that she can confide every
thought and desire of her heart to her
mother, and the son is in full sympathy and
counsel with his father, there is little dan-
ger that the happiness of the parents will
be wrecked by the profligacy of their chil-
dren. Many grown people seem to think
there is no harm done in evading questions
asked by children, or in giving such answers
as totally mislead and confuse them. This
is a woful mistake, and most disastrous con-

[Column 3]
sequences follow it. Truth never injures
anybody, and though it may be diluted, so
to speak, when given to children, any false-
hood mingled with it is deadly poison. The
ranks of fallen women in our great city are
largely recruited from the country. Rarely
does any young woman knowing her dan-
ger become identified with this unfortunate
class, and young men who have been fore-
warned by judicious parents of the alluring
temptations which seek them out on every
hand, are too wise to wander far from the
paths of virtue.—“N. Y. Tribune.”


MUSIC IN A FAMILY.

	Music in a family is a means of domestic
cheerfulness. A musical family, in spite of
cares, perplexities, or even trials, may be a
cheerful family. Cheerful in that sense of
the term which implies good spirits, and in
which needless depression of mind and
morbid melancholy are kept away. You
can have the sunshine of cheerfulness in
your house in the most rainy, cheerless or
wintry day that ever was if you can have
music. Music provokes good uature in
a family; and, in this world, where there
is so much evil nature manifested in
a thousand ways, and in the family some-
times, as well as elsewhere, anything
which will promote good-nature is to be
prized. Who can fret and scold when the
very air around is blended with soft har-
mony?

			     THE SEX.

	Miss Sarah Norris M. D., of Boston is gone
to practice medicine in Bombay.
	The latest musical attraction in Paris is a
quartette of Swedish girls, singing Scandi-
navian melodies.
	A New York mother wants the authori-
ties to prohibit boys under sixteen from
smoking, drinking, or chewing.
	The Massachusetts Supreme Judicial
Court decides that women, under the Con-
stitution, can be members of school commit-
tees.
	A Russion lady, Lydia Rodelrena, has
given $40,000 to endow a department for
medical instruction for women in St. Peters-
burg Academy of Medicine.
	One of the last official acts of ex-Gov.
Davis, of Texas, was the appointment of a
woman as the Commissioner of the State to
the Centennial celebration at Philadelphia.
	Mrs. Emi B. Swank of Indianapolis, has
recently made an address at the Annual
Meeting of the Home for the friendless, in
Richmond, Indiana, which is highly com-
plimented by the press.
	After twenty years' work the women of
Charleston, South Carolina, succeeded in
raising $28,000 for a monument to John C.
Calhoun, only to end their labors by voting
down a resolution to erect a monument, after
all. Now it is proposed to devote the money
to educational purposes.
	Some years ago, Fanny Fern attracted the
horrified attention of people of strictly con-
ventional ideas by writing a letter to Lester
Wallack, insisting upon the right of women
to attend places of amusement without the
escort of men. But now it has become not
at all unusual to meet ladies of the utmost
respectability at public places unattended
except by others of their own sex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
						[For the Exponent.]
		STRONG-MINDED WOMEN.

	The election has come and gone, and how
often has been heard from women the re-
mark "Oh! no thank you, I did not vote, I
am not strong minded." Poor, silly things!
Did you not know that by such a speach you
called forth pity for yourselves and the male
members of your families, from every
thoughtful person? Acknowledge, if you will,
that you are indifferent to the interests of
the community in which you dwell or, that
you are too ignorant to understand the social
and political questions involved, but do not
say it is because you lack moral strength to
express those opinions in public. There is
no misery entailed on the other sex by mar-
riage so great as that of being united to a
weak minded woman. Fancy what a safe-
guard the counsels of a woman would
be to a man in the temptations that beset
him in his youth, what a comforter in the
hour of adversity, how unflinchingly she
could bear poverty by his side and help him
to meet, with indifference, the scorn that
the world heaps upon failure. Better! ten
thousand times better be strong minded, the
true companion of your husband and bro-
thers, the guide and promoter of your chil-
dren's welfare, than the puny, inane crea-
ture who has not the strength to think. I
do not advocate the claims, of a masculine
woman, to admiration. On the contrary, I
think she should be sweet, and womanly,
and not flaunt her opinions in every one's
face because she knows enough to form them;
no more than a man, though he be an athlete,
should attempt the role of a bully and prize
fighter, yet who sometimes might realize
that strength was a Godsend to him for the
defence of those he reverenced or loved.
So should we consider and guard the elec-
tive franchise, useing it conscientiously, as
a God given privilege, and when men are
placed in nomination, of rulers or dele-
gates who would rob us for our rights, our
united ballot should be against them.
But, methinks, I hear the gentlemen say,
"We will restore the right of dower." Sirs,
are you so ignorant of the doings of the
Utah Legislature that you do not know that
at the same session during which they took
away the right of dower, they gave us the
right to hold property exclusive of our hus-
bands' control? So that an industrious wo-
man, with a trade or business, though tied
to a thriftless man, need not be despoiled of
her earnings to supply the needs of his lazy
existence. And the heiress, who would
fain be loved for herself alone, need not fear
the advances of the fortune hunter, for her
possessions are still hers after marriage, if
she chooses to retain them; it is only
through her affections that she can be reduc-
ed to beggary. But here is where Legisla-
tures, Congress and Presidents have failed
to repeal the fiat given to woman by the
great Law Giver, in the day of her creation,
"Thy desire shall be to thy husband, and
he shall rule over thee;" and every loving
wife feels the force of it as strongly now as
she could the day it was promulgated and
she would not have it otherwise. But for
any upstart demagogue or unprincipled lib-
ertine to claim the right to legislate for, and
govern a woman's heart and conscience, sim-
ply because he is a man, is what no strong-
minded woman will concede. Should such
men (?) succeed, however, in disfranchising
us, we will continue to study the art of self-
government, and the principles of religion
and so instruct our children that it shall not
be said of Utah:

[Column 2]
			"Her pride was crushed,
Her sons were willing slaves, nor blushed
In their own land,—no more their own,—
To crouch beneath a stranger's throne.
*	*	*	*	*	*	*	*
Where slaves, converted by the sword,
Their mean apostate worship pour'd,
And cursed the faith their sires adored."	
					LAURA M. MINER.
S. L. City March 8th, 1874.


GARDENING AS WOMAN'S WORK.

	This has long seemed to me an employ-
ment in which women would not only gain
health and strength, but in which the most
modest and retiring might find congenial
occupation, and the products of which are
never depreciated because raised by women.
A peck of peas has a certain market value
not depending upon the hands which raised
them. A woman who works at making
pants receives fifty cents a day, not on ac-
count of the amount or quality of her work,
but because she is a woman. A man en-
gaged on the same garments receives $2 a
day, not because of the amount or quality
of his work, but because he is a man. It is
doubtless true that, in very many cases, the
man does his work better than a woman;
but it is not less true that in a majority of
cases, the difference is sex. So of the school.
A male teacher receives $1,000 a year, not
because his moral influence is better, not
because his pupils learn more, but because
he is a man. A woman teaches a similar
school, and receives $400, not because of the
inferiority of her moral influence in the
school, not because the pupil learns less, but
because she is a woman. Now, happily, all
this is avoided in gardening. A man who
would sell a beet is not obliged to put on a
label "raised by a man, ten cents," and upon
another, "raised by a woman, four cents,"
but the article brings its market value. This
is a great advantage and one affording a
special gratification to women of spirit. Be-
sides gardening is an occupation that re-
quires little capital, and except in the fancy
departments, comparitively little training.
Near any of the cities a woman can earn
more upon a half acre of land, with four
months work than she can by sewing twelve
months, saying nothing of the unhealthiness
of sewing.—Dio Lewis.


FROM CACHE VALLEY.

		SMITHFIELD, March 4th, 1874.
Dear Exponent:—
	I have just returned from Bishop Wm.
Hyde's funeral; how comforting when we
are called upon to part with friends, to rea-
lize that, "What is our loss is their gain."
	I have known him since June, 1874. He
was born in Sept., 1818; embraced the gos-
pel April 7th, 1834, under the hands of Bro.
John Murdock; and has been a true and
faithful servant of the Lord Jesus Christ,
ever since. He may truely be said to have
worn his life out in the service of God. He
has traveled much to preach the gospel to
the unbelieving world; was one of the 500
who volunteered to lay down his life to save
his friends, and marched across the plains
and deserts to the seat of war in Mexico.
He has finished his work upon the earth, he
has kept the faith and now has gone to reap
his reward; a crown of righteousness, redemp-
tion from sin, andeternal lives in the king-
dom of our God. Well did the Poet say,
"The chamber where the good man meets
his fate, is privileged beyond the common
walk, 	*	*	*quite in the verge of hea-
ven."


﻿There was a very lage congregation out at
the funeral notwithstanding the cold inclem-
ent time. The speakers were Prest. B.
Young Jr., Bishops Wm. B. Preston, M. W.
Merrill and Elders E. M. Greene, Moses
Thatcher and J. Hatch: They dwelt mostly
upon the subject of the "passing away" of
those who had learned from the Prophet
Joseph, and have been faithful to the present.
Bro. Hyde was buried with military honors.
	Colds, coughs, and a kind of scarlet fever
are quite prevalent here, mostly among the
children: The snow is from eighteen inches
to 2 feet deep, and more is coming nearly
every day. The weather is very cold: The
Utah Northern is blockaded with snow from
four miles below Hampton's Station, so
there is no passing by rail into this valley.
								M.


HELP FOR WOMEN.

	We need more vocations in which educa-
ted women can work, says the Boston Globe,
without compromising either their respecta-
bility or their substinance. There is a grow-
ing demand that professional and other oc-
cupations, now monopolized by men, should
be open to the sex. There are considera-
tions of natural adaptations which, in the
long run, will determine this question in
particular employments. The moment that
educated women make their mark in any
honorable occupation, more is done to obvi-
ate the evils of relying on the chances of
marriage for support than any amount of dis-
cussion can accomplish. Education must be
adapted to the circumstances of the pupils,
and we trust the time is not far distant when
a false idea of respectability will not pre-
vent parents from affording their daughters
such instruction as will fit them for an hon-
est and honorable independence.


FACTS AND FIGURES.

	Of the new trade dollars 1,400,000 have been
coined.
	Iowa grew more wheat in 1873 than any other
state.
	There are forty Protestant places of worship in
Rome.
	Boston has twenty-one Baptist churches, with
7,579 members.
	The Buffalo (N. Y.) Young Men's Christian As-
sociation is 38 years of age.
	Coaches or carriages were first used in England
in the year 1530. They were introduced from Ger-
many by the Earl of Arundel.
	In New York in winter, the price of a handsome
basket of flowers is from five to fifty dollars. Bou-
quets can be made at from three to twenty-five dol-
lars.
	A "fossil" egg, said to be larger than that of an
ostrich, has been purchased for the St. Petersburgh
museum, at a cost of seven hundred and fifty dol-
lars. It was found in one of the Russian provin-
ces.
	Extensive farming.—The Colusa Sun states that
Mr. H. E. Glenn, of that county will put in 40,000
acres of wheat this year. It is calculated the yield
will be 1,000,000 bushels, and worth, at least, $1,000
000.
	The "Publishers Circular" (England) states that
during the past year there were published in that
country, 3,463 new books, 1,286 new additions of
former works and 242 reprints of American publi-
cations; making a total of 4,991. According to the
classification, tales, works of fiction, etc. were the
most numerous, while works on law were the few-
est in number.


156 	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
L. GEEENE RICHARDS, EDITOR.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Miss Cornelia H. Horne, Business Manager. Office hours
from 9 to 12 a. m., and from 2 to 5 p, m., on Mondays and
Fridays.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers Woman’s Exponent,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY, March 15. 1874.


SPLINTERS.

	It is said that New York buries six hundred
and twenty-seven of her paupers in one
trench...Seven persons were lately poisoned
through eating fresh pork in Cincinnati......
Strong resolutions have been passed by the
Maine Woman's Suffrage Convention in be-
half of its object......The Baroness Lionel de
Rothschild is said to be gaining some notori-
ety as an authoress......Maine promises to do
a good business in ship-building this season.
......Emily Faithful still lectures in England
on the subject of "Eight months in America"
......Boston has been astonished over a well-
dressed, able-bodied man who wears a pla-
card on his hat which bears the inscription.
"I want work!"......General Louis T. Wig-
fall died at Galveston, Texas, on the 18th ult
Henry Ward Beecher wants to know, if it is
wicked to laugh in meeting, "why Provi-
dence permits honest, well-meaning souls to
be tempted beyond what they are able to
bear"......A plan for the improvement of the
colored race is to be laid before the President
by "Sojourner Truth"......Militia men in
California protest against being disbanded...
Mrs. Fannie U. Roberts has been installed
over the Universalist Church in Kittery,
Maine......It is stated by Alabama papers
that land is selling very cheap all over the
State, some of the best cotton land for two
to four dollars per acre......Ellen M. Babb is
the third lady who has been appointed to the
position of Justice of the peace in the State
of Maine......Pupils in the High School at
Dover N. H. have regular examinations in
periodical literature, to ascertain how thor-
oughly the news-papers are studied......Rev.
Phebe A. Hannaford has written a historical
sketch of her parish in New Haven........It 
has been decided by the Supreme Court of
Indiana, that the law requiring a man guilty
of drunkeness to tell where he got his li-
quor, is unconstitutional......Abba G. Wool-
son lectures succesfully in the New Hamp-
shire lyceum on the "Yosemite Valley".....
A Titusville paper announces that there are
upwards of 1,000,000 gallons of crude oil at
that point, in the tanks, with no protection
against fire......Ninety-one females are en-
rolled at the Michigan University for the
current academic year......The village Cerro
de Pasco, which is situated on the slope of
the Andes, 14,000 feet above the level of the
sea, is said to contain the highest newspaper
office in the world......Sixty-five rail road
trains enter and leave Portland, Maine, daily
......The latest style for speaking of a fraud
committed by an officer of public trust, is to
say, "he was caught in the rain without an
umbrella"......This country is said to raise
annually 2,000,000 bushels of pea-nuts.....
Iowa has seventy-two counties and treasur-
ers of twenty-three of them have been found
guilty of embezzelment.....A bill has passed
in the New York Senate to consolidate the
City and County of New York..........Seven-
teen applications for divorce were made in a
Rhode Island court in one day. Pretty good
for a small place.......A Georgia farmer late-
ly discovered that his dog liked milk so well
that he had got into the habit of milking a
fine cow......Bull fights have been prohibited
in France......Gov. Allen, of Ohio, refuses
to accept free passes......A ladies' society
has been organized at Keokuk, to hunt up
husbands who stay at "The Lodge" after 11
P. M........Ground was broken, Feb. 18th, for
the foundation of the first Reformed Epis-
copal Church to be erected in the Uni-
ted States. It is, we believe, to be styled
the "Church of the Rock of Ages"......A
late fire, at Evanston destroyed fourteen build-
ings. Total loss estimated at $200,000.


NOTICE.

	THE ANNUAL Conference to be held in this
city on the 6th of April next, will meet and
adjourn to Thursday, May 7th, at 10 o'clock
a. m.						
					BRIGHAM YOUNG,
					GEORGE A. SMITH,
					DANIEL H. WELLS.


DOMESTIC HINTS.

	It is the mother who forms the character of
the child—it is Woman who gives tone to
society. Yet it is but a few years since this im-
portant truth was conceded; but now the world
knows and acknowledges it, and every one is
repeating it. There certainly can be no mistake
about this, for even before its birth, the natural
mind of the child has been stamped with the
emotions, desires and reflections which have
been cherished by its maternal parent. And
for months after becoming a distinct inhabitant
of earth, it is still dependent in a very great de-
gree, for existence upon the same source from
which it had hitherto been sustained. Then;
during all the days of childhood and youth, it
is mother's examples and influence which reg-
ulate, mold and impress, until mature years
have marked the character a settled reality.
	While, then, it is obviously, the sacred
duty of every mother, and of every woman
who has hopes of becoming a mother, to culti-
vate to the utmost extent of her capabilities,
ALL EXELLENCE within herself, in order that
she may be able to impart th same in abun-
dance to her offspring; under what obligations
is man placed concerning these things?
	Let it be considered that his dally proceed
ings, whether they may have much or little di-
rect influence on the dispositions of the chil-
dren, have a great deal to do with the feelings
and consequent course of the mother. And if
she has need to be so perfect in her ways, how
necessary it is that she should receive encour-
agement, sympathy and strength continually
from him. He should have thought and con-
sideration for her welfare and happiness even-
above his own; and should never allow him-
self to be so wrapt up in things which he may
think of greater importance, as to forget or neg-
lect to assure her by tender looks and expres-
sions, that he entertains a proper regard for her
as his wife and the mother of his children.
Nothing is so cheering and refreshing to the
tired, over-tasked mind and body of a half-sick
wife whose "work is never done," as a proof of
the real appreciation and sympathetic consid-
eration of him for whom, principally, she la-
bors. And why should he ever, even in one
single instance, withhold these simple rewards?
Even though he may be too poor to afford her
sufficient help in her household duties, and too
busy to offer her assistance himself, in little af-
fairs, at times when a helping hand is so much
needed—when present, he may still bestow the


blessing of a kindly smile and loving sentence.
And these without expense or loss of time.
	If he shows the respect due her in her impor-
tant position, his children will rarely think of
doing otherwise. But let him manifest, in their
presence, doubts of her efficiency to wisely con-
duct the management of her own, especial,do-
mestic concerns, and see how readily his sons
at least, will take advantage of his injudicious
example. If he would generously assist the
mother in her arduous labors of training the
little ones, he might as well interfere with the
kitchen fire and seek to enliven it by throwing
on icicles, as to utter words of disparagement
in relation to her manner of directing or cor-
recting her children in their hearing. Such a
course being taken, while the children were
present, has not only wounded the tender sen-
sibilities of many a mother, but also lessened
the good influence she might have over them.


TO CORRESPONDENTS.

	Writing for the press, like many other occu-
pations, to be performed aright, requires the ob-
servance of certain rules or principles. Some
of these principles are so simple that any one,
who is able to write, can learn them in a few
minutes; yet perhaps the non-observance of
these rules may give more trouble than the neg-
lect of others requiring deeper and longer study.
To mention a few ideas connected with the sub-
ject, was our purpose in commencing this arti-
cle. Though the contributions of our friends
may not always be suited to, or find place in
the columns of the EXPONENT, we trust that
not even the humblest contributor will feel dis-
couraged, or take offense. But on the contrary,
we will be glad to see all—with the improve-
ment that study and experience brings—con-
tinue to be co-workers with us in seeking to
show forth and promote the best interests of
women. To this end, we invite correspondents
and friends throughout the Territory to com-
municate their views and feelings. In doing
so, the real name of the writer should always
be given, not that it is necessary for publication,
but as a guarantee of good faith. If the wri-
ter desires to have the initials or an assumed
name published instead of the real name, it
should be so stated
	The date should not be forgotten, especially
in letters containing news, and business items.
	When sending names of subscribers, be care-
ful to also give the name of the Town and Coun-
ty in which each one resides. If the subscriber
is a resident of this city, the name of the Ward
to which the paper is to be sent should be sta-
ted.
	If a subscriber wants his or her paper changed,
the name of its former destination as well as
the place to which it is to be sent should be sta-
ted clearly. A neglect of the three preceeding
rules often occasions trouble if not loss.
	In writing do not mix business communica-
tions with those intended for publication, it is
better to write them on different sheets of pa-
per.
Communications for publication should be writ-
ten on one side of the paper only; especially
those which are lengthy.
	Be sure that words, particularly proper names,
are spelled correctly. If convenient and neces-
sary consult a dictionary when writing.
	And last but not least, though it may not be
necessary that the penmanship of a well written
article be beautiful, it is requisite that it be
plain, the plainer and neater the better. Good
black ink and clear white paper is the best to
use. Many are not careful to make their let-
ters sufficiently distinct; their n's and u's are
alike; such letters as a, o, d, etc., not being con-


nected at the top are often very indistinct, their
r's and v's are similar in form, as also their i's
and e's. These are but a few instances to which
attention should be given, particularly in writ-
ing proper names and foreign words, as the man-
uscript may be the only guide to the spelling.
Mistakes often occur through hurry, as the
poorest writer can, with care, avoid such errors.
And though these may seem small matters, they
may be more easily attended to by authors than
by those who correct for the press; and a little
care might probably save many mistakes.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	IRREGULARITIES IN the Cache Co. mail have
caused considerable discussion, in the papers,
lately. We hope better mail facilities in that
section will be the result.
	THE PROPOSITION to number the buildings
in this city is being agitated. The matter is
one of public importance, and, if properly car-
ried out, will doubtless be of great benefit.


[Column 1]
﻿		WOMAN'S VOICE.
EDITOR EXPONET:—
	For a season your paper has been lost to
me, and, indeed, I have felt lost without it.
But I have just been perusing one of your
issues, and it makes me feel thankful for the
truth which it so ably maintains. I thank
my Heavenly Father for the light which He
has revealed through His Prophet Joseph
Smith, and for the knowledge which He is
continually offering to us, through His Pro-
phets and Apostles who are living among us.
Why should we not rejoice, living in this
day over which holy Prophets rejoiced see-
ing it afar off? Sometimes I think we, as a
people do not realize and appreciate the
blessings which are, and those which might
be ours. Else why do we not deny ourselves,
"and lay aside every weight and sin which
doth so easily beset us, and run race with pa-
tience which is set before us?"
	I can remember the state in which we,
with the rest of the world, were,before the ef-
fulgence of Truth came forth through Joseph
Smith, the Prophet of God. Darkness had
pervaded the earth for more than a thou-
sand years. I shudder when I reflect upon
the benighted and wicked world as it was.
We read of many instances in "the dark
ages," where all who dared to hold on to
Christianity, men, women and children were
cruelly tortured, and often put to death.
Women were treated as beasts of burden;
and at one time in England, they were led
with ropes around their necks to be sold as
chattle in the markets. Eventually, the
Holy Bible came to be taught to the people
in some parts of the earth, and they became
more enlightened.
	But although the Bible came in purity,
its meaning was misinterpreted, and the
teachings of its sacred, precious truths per-
verted. Some thought the Scriptures meant
one thing and some another. Men of learn-
ing puzzled their brains to make comments,
just according as their ambition led them to
form opinions. There was no unity of faith.
The Christian world was divided into many
different sects, regardless of the words of
Jesus, "Except ye are one, ye are not mine."
	Joseph Smith received the Everlasting
Gospel from the Heavens; and it is by this
Gospel, and through its power, that the
world must be redeemed from the fallen
and benighted state in which it now grovels.
	I feel to praise and worship my God, that
he has given me a heart to receive the
Truth. I thank Him for revealing all the
[Coulmn 2]
glorious principles which lead to eternal
life and salvation; and especially for the one
which is so obnoxious to the world. For
without this—plurality of wives—the salva-
tion of the world could not be brought about.
	I have written this much, having a desire
to add my mite in bearing testimony to the
Truth and opposing evil.		EXCELLETTE.
		BEAVER CITY, Feb. 27th, 1874.
DEAR EXPONENT:—
	Although you hear very little from the Re-
lief Society in this place, we are not idle.
We hold meetings regularly once a week
and sewing circles once in two weeks; both
are well attended considering the severity
of the weather and the bad condition of our
streets. There has recently been organized
a Young Ladies' Retrenchment Association
here, of which Mrs. Harriet Fotheringham
is President, and Miss Ida Hunt, Secretary.
	All the sisters feel interested in the pro-
gress of the Temple at St. George and have
donated liberally to that as well as to other
public institutions. The readers of the Ex-
ponent are greatly pleased with its ad-
vancement, and wait anxiously for each num-
ber, thus proving it to be a welcome visitor;
we trust that the sisters will all realize its
worth and aid in sustaining it. There is
considerable sickness here, principally among
children, and several deaths have lately oc-
curred.
		MARY E. ASHWORTH, Secretary.
			SELINA, February 19th, 1874.
	The Relief Society of Selina held its first
annual meeting on the 25th of December,
1873, President Mrs. Margaret Rasmussen
presiding. The Bishop and Counselors were
present, and kindly assisted the President
and Secretary in filling out a pleasant pro-
gramme. A general good spirit prevailed
during the day, and in the evening a dance
was given in, which all seemed to enjoy
themselves. The members of the Society,
almost without exception, are anxious to do
all the good they can, and are generally uni-
ted.
		CELINDA A. MARTIN, Secretary.
DEAR EXPONENT:—
	In the year of sixty-one, as your readers
will remember, many of the families of
Northern Utah, were called to this Southern
Mission. And, not having duly considered
the divine authority, which our Father had
bestowed upon his Prophets, our leaders,
the hearts of some did fail; and they felt
that they must return to that, almost heaven,
from which they had—it seemed to them—
been exiled. Consequently, when Presi-
dent Young soon after came to visit us, his
heart was pained by the failure apparent in
some; and in dispensing encouragement and
gladness to the assemblies he addressed,
these words were repeatedly spoken: "Breth-
ren and Sisters, be patient, be faithful. Live
unto God and this sterile country shall, to
your satisfaction, become a most choice abid-
ing place, and many shall desire to flock
unto it." How truly have the Saints in
Washington found those words verified!
And shall the Latter-day Saints be doubtful,
and heed not the voice of God when He
speaks to them through the mouth of His
Prophet! Sisters, shall we not now, espe-
cially remember that time when the Ser-
vants of God were assembled waiting for a
manifestation of His power, a sound, even
as of a mighty rushing wind came and filled
the place where they sat. Yet waiting,
there came to them a still small voice, and
the Lord was there:—How sweetly expres-
[Column 3]
sive! And shall we not learn to listen, and
enjoy daily precious communion from on
high?				A. S. ATKINS.
	Washington, Feb. 24th, 1874.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	There was a special meeting of the sisters
in Heber City, called Feb. 28th, for the pur-
pose of getting means to finish our hall,
and also to fence in the lot upon which the
hall stands. When done, this work will be
a credit to the Society. The day was cold
and stormy, but despite that, the sisters
were warm hearted and full of the good
spirit, and of thanks to the Almighty for
His blessings to them, which crown their
feeble efforts in building up and beautifying
a place wherein they can meet and enjoy
the Spirit of God, without fear of intruding
upon, or hindering others. Respectfully,
				MELISSA REYNOLDS.


HUMOROUS.
	"LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS"—Chicago mar-
riages.
	QUERY—-DOES a dumb man always keep
his word?
	Q.—WHAT WAS Joan of Arc made of?
	A.—She was Maid of Orleans.
	WHAT IS the most becoming dress for the
bare earth? The skirts of a wood.
	A VERMONT CONTEMPORARY suggestively
remarks:—Anonymous communications are
worth four cents a pound at this office.
	A DOG PUT out of court by order of the 
bench is said to have “cast a look at the  
judge for the purpose of being able to iden-
tify him on some future occasion.”
	A MAN IN North Carolina, has been found
guilty of disturbing a religious meeting by
singing out of time, as he always came out
two and one-half bars behind. He is indig-
nant and appeals.
	A LITTLE BOY having broken his rocking
horse the day it was bought, his mother be-
gan to rebuke him and box his ears. He si-
lenced her by inquiring, "What is the use 
of a hoss till he's broke?"
	A SAMPLE of the tyranny of man was
shown at a woman's rights meeting in Ti-
tusville, where a gentleman entered and
told his wife, one of the officers of the meet-
ing, to come home quick "as the baby had
the colic." She went.
	IF I AM not at home from the party to-
night at 10 o'clock, said a husband to his
wife, do not wait for me. That I won’t,she
replied significantly, I'll come for you! To
prevent difficulty the gentleman managed
to be at home precisely at 10 o’clock.
	Titles are a plan got up bi humans tew
assist nature in promulgating aristokrasy.
	Titles aint ov enny more real use or nes-
essity than dog collars are.
	I have seen dog collars that cost 3 dollars
on dogs that want worth, in enny market,
over 88 1-2 cents.
	This a grate waste ov collar, and a grate
damage tew the dog.—JOSH BILLINGS
	PIRON, THE French author, was on one
occasion obliged to appear before a Parisian
magistrate who haughtily interrogated him
concerning his business or profession:—
	"I am a poet sir," said Piron.
	"O! O! a poet, are you? "I have a bro-
ther who is a poet."
	"Then we are even," said Piron, "for I
have a brother who is a fool."


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿A CHILD’S QUESTIONS.

	Was he ever a baby, mother,
	    That reeking and tattered man,
	With dead eyes out of his purple face,
	    Looking only as dead eyes can?

	Did a mother's kiss ever fall on
	    That frightful and grimacing mouth?
	Did it use to prattle and say sweet things,
	    Like a brook in a summer's drouth?

	Did he lift up white hands, praying
	    The Lord his soul to keep,
	Who now goes muttering dreadful words
	    As he rolls in the ditch to sleep?


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Happy Children.—As house-plants cannot flour-
ish without sunshine, so children cannot thrive and
be happy without love. How radiant are their
bright faces, as they respond to tones and words of
affection from the lips of their parents! Little
they know of the deep solicitude, of the constant
care exercised toward them; but they do fully un-
derstand and appreciate protestations of love and
tenderness. Why should we be chary of these,
when they cost only speaking? “I know,” said a
lady not long ago, “that my mother loved me ten-
derly, but during all my childhood I doubted it. If
I were really dear to her, I queried, why did she
never tell me so? Why did she never caress me,
and assure me of her love? She thought her ac-
tions spoke loudly enough without words. I could
not read her actions then as I can now, and how I
longed to hear her call me loving names, and to
have her wrap me in the sweet embrace of her
strong mother love.” Many a little heart aches
just as this lady’s did, and can be made happier by
the spontaneous utterances of maternal affection
than by beads or dolls, fine clothes or costly toys.
Children who grow up in this constant atmosphere
of love are rarely mischievous—never vicious. The
mightiest of all agencies to lead the young in paths
of virtue is in the hands of parents, and to com-
mand this agency they need to give expression to
the natural overflow of their hearts. Children to
be happy, need encouragement and praise. It is
not enough that they escape censure. Negatives
are always cold and blank. Our little ones want
warm, positive approval when they have done right;
thus they will be made to feel that the paths of
wisdom are paths of pleasantness and peace.
	Asthma Remedy.—1 1/2 ounces soda of potas, 1 1/2
ounces pulverized black licorice, 1 pint soda water.
Dose, one tablespoonfull three times a day, or less if
not required. Shake thoroughly before taking.
A sure remedy if taken as directed.
	Golden Salve Recipes—Two quarts raw linseed
oil, three pounds good fresh resin, three pounds
beeswax. Melt thoroughly together and turn into
tin boxes. This is the best salve known for burns,
scalds, flesh wounds, old sores, piles, etc. To
make small quantities the same proportion as above
is required.
	Remedy for Bee Stings, &c.—The tincture of
iodine is almost a sovereign remedy for the sting of
bees, wasps, hornets, the bites of spiders, any ex-
ternal poisoning as the crushing of caterpillars, hop
and corn worms, on the flesh. Apply the tincture
as soon as possible in any way convenient. It may
be had at almost any drug store or of any prac-
tising physician.
	Milk for Diarrhea.—The Milk Journal states on
the authority of Dr. Benjamin Clarke that in the
East Indies warm milk is used to a great extent as
a specific for diarrhea. A pint every four hours
will check the most violent diarrhea, stomach-ache,
incipient cholera and dysentery. The milk should
never be boiled, but only heated sufficiently to be
agreeably warm, not too hot to drink.
	Medicinal Use of Nettles.—Dr. Nicholl says that
the greatest preventive of yellow fever in Bermuda
is dried nettle, powdered and used as a condiment
in all cooking. The Doctor resides on the Isle of


Jersey, and he uses it successfully among his pa-
tients. He preserves it like herb teas; and keeps
it in a dry place. Dr. Thornton uses it as a styp-
tic. He dips lint into nettle juice and inserts it in-
to a bleeding nose, with quick effect. He also pre-
scribes it for goiter, for which it is a specific remedy.
In this case he grinds fifteen of the seeds, and ad-
ministers once a day. The juice of the nettle has
a singular effect on steel, which becomes flexible
by immersion in it.


CODE OF DRESS FOR LADIES.

	An experienced writer gives this code of
dress.
	1.—The first instinct about a new fash-
ion is the true one. Don’t wait till your
eye has lost its accuracy or your judgment
its edge. Subject the thing at once to the
general rule, and bow to the decision.
	2. What suits one person does not suit
another. Know thyself.
	3. Dress should supplement good points
and correct bad ones. Thick and thin, long
and short, are not all to be subjected to one
Procrustean style.
	4. Colors should be harmonious, should be
massed, should be becoming. Many little
points or blotches of color sprinkled over a
costume produce a disagreeably pied and
speckled effect, as of a monstrous robin's
egg or a plum pudding. One tint should
prevail, relieved by a contrasting tint. No
amount of fashionable prestige can make an
unbecoming color becoming. "Nile green"
will turn some people into oranges, though
twenty empresses ordain its adoption.
	5. Lines should be continuous, graceful
and feminine. It is better to look like a
woman (if you happen to be one) than like
any thing else—even a fashion plate!
	6. Ornament must be subordinate. Na-
ture, with all her profusion, never forgets
this fundamental law.
	7. Above all things be neat. Dainty pre-
cision and freshness is as essential to a
woman as a flower.
	8. Individuality is the rarest and cheap-
est thing in the world.
	9. And lastly, "Stylish" is of all the words
in the English language the most deadly.
It has slain its thousands.


﻿CAN WE TRUST WOMEN DOCTORS?

	It is rather late in the day to raise this
question, as women are quietly but success-
fully giving proof of their ability in every
department of medical science.
	Every fact is an argument, and the world
yet needs "line upon line" to free it from an
underlying contempt for the ability and in-
tellect of Woman.
	The Nantucket "Mirror" gives the follow-
ing fact:
	The little girl, Sarah Barrally, who had
the great sack or cluster of tumors removed
from her neck on the 7th of September last,
returned home last Tuesday. This remark-
able operation, which we noticed in our col-
umns at the time, was performed at the
New England Hospital for Women and Chil-
dren, in Boston, by a lady surgeon, Miss
Dimmock. No less than seventy-one
tumors, varying in size from the dimensions
of a pullet's egg down to those of a pea,
were found within the sack, and were suc-
cessfully removed. The little girl is now,
to all appearances, entirely well. The case
was an extraordinary one, and attracted the
attention of several medical men who visit-
ed the island last summer, as well as of all
our own people.—Ex.


FLOWERS.

	FAITH IN our own ability is half of every
battle.
	IT COSTS more to avenge wrongs than to
bear them.
	SOME MEN are worth nothing, and others
are worth less.
	IT IS the great art and philosophy of life,
to make the best of the present.
	EXPERIENCE WITHOUT learning does
more good than learning without experience.
	A LITTLE hole in a ship sinks it; so a
little sin sometimes produces a man’s ruin.
	THE NAME of the architect who builds
castles in the air is To-morrow, and Hope
lays the foundation.
	HE WHO thinks he knows everything is
often deceived. He who weeps for every-
body soon loses his eyesight.
	WE ARE always complaining that our
days are few, and acting as though there
would be no end to them.
	Spare moments are like the gold dust of
time. Of all portions of life, spare moments
are the most fruitful of good or evil.
	A WISE man will desire no more than
what he can get justly, use soberly, distrib-
ute cheerfully, and live upon contentedly.
	SUCCESS RIDES on every hour; grapple it
and you may win, but without a grapple, it
will never go with you. Work is the wea-
pon of honor, and he who lacks the weapon
will never triumph.
	LIFE IS divided into three terms: that
which was, which is, and which will be.
Let us learn from the past to profit by the
present, and from the present to live better
for the future.
	MANY OF the brightest virtues are like
stars—there must be night or they cannot
shine. Without suffering there could be
no fortitude, no patience, no compassion, no
sympathy.
	IF A man could make a single rose we
should give him an empire, yet roses and
flowers no less beautiful are scattered in pro-
fusion over the world, and no one regards
them.—Luther.
	GOODNESS OF heart is a ray of divinity
that dignifies humanity, attracts admiration,
and assimilates those who possess it to their
Creator: but like pure gold it is liable to be 
counterfeited.
	THAT PERSON may be guilty of imperti-
nence who considers not the circumstances
of time, or engrosses the conversation, or
makes himself the subject of his discourse,
or pays no regard to the company he is in.
	WHEN A Hindoo priest is about to baptize
an infant, he utters the following beautiful
sentiment: “Little babe thou enteredst the
world weeping, while all around thee smil-
ed; contrive so to live that you may depart
in smiles, while all around thee weep.”
	IT IS easier to tell when others are flatter-
ed than when we ourselves are; and many
a woman will lend a willing ear, and firm
belief to the soft nothings of the very per-
son whom she believes to be an arrant flat-
terer when other women are in the case.
	WHATEVER WE undertake demands the
best powers of our minds to discover its
whole bearing and intents, and the most
strict and vigilant observance of every spe-
cific duty which it involves. Nothing great,
or noble, or worthy is ever accomplished
without enthusiasm, self-sacrifice, and pa-
tient labor.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿BOOKS.

	How many books there are of various
kinds, from which we may gain useful
knowledge and information, upon any sub-
ject which we may choose.
	Always, my young friends, read those
books from which the most knowledge may
be derived, and those which will prove
beneficial to you. Do not indulge in read-
ing the light literature of the day, or what
is more properly termed, “ten cent novels.”
There is nothing in them worth knowing
that you could not learn from better books,
without the trouble of gleaning from so much
nonsense. Then why seek after such tri-
fling, unimportant things? Rather choose
to read those books that will teach you how
to behave, how to talk and when, and, above
all, how to respect old age.
	Indulging too frequently in reading light
literature, is apt to impair the memory to a
greater or less extent.
	Would you know whether the tendency
of a book is good or evil, examine in what
state of mind you lay it down. Has it in-
duced you to suspect that what you have
been accustomed to think unlawful, may be
innocent; and that may be harmless, which
you have hitherto been taught to think dan-
gerous? If it has done this, its purport is
evil—avoid all books of a like nature in fu-
ture. I believe that many an unsuspecting,
innocent young person has been led to ruin
by reading such works. But where do you
suppose the learned men of to-day acquired
their information concerning various things,
if not by studying good books? They have,
as far as we know, had to battle pretty hard
to gain that knowledge which they now
have. And from this we may be taught
that perseverance, patience, and hard and
wise study alone, is what makes the great
man or woman.
	Then let me impress upon your minds,
my young friends, the necessity of laying
aside novels, etc., and studying books that
will, eventually be of greater benefit to you.
For of course, we are all desirous of gaining
the true respect and confidence of our intel-
ligent friends, and to cultivate real wisdom
and goodness is the only way by which we
may obtain these blessings.		HETTIE.


STORY OF A SENSITIVE BOY.

	A New York despatch states that the ver-
dict of the jury, on Wednesday, to investi-
gate the circumstances attending the death
of a school boy named David White, who
put an end to his own life, at No. 146 Riv-
ingston street, is certainly very significant.
The boy, it would appear, was of an ardent,
ambitious temperament, highly sensitive,
and up to a certain critical point in his
school-boy life studious to the extent of dis-
tancing all class competitors of his own age.
Unfortunately, as the result showed, these
qualities attracted the attention of his
teachers and his parents and he was pro-
moted to a higher class, with the members
of which it was morally impossible for him
to cope. The natural result followed. The
studious boy, who had been facile princeps,
lost his ambition with the full knowledge
that he could not gratify it, and gradually
found his way to the end of his class. He
became so negligent that his teacher, in the
belief that he had degenerated through
simple carelessness, wrote up his name in
great letters on a blackboard, so that all
comers should read it. The rest is shortly
told. The boy told his schoolmates that he
would commit suicide, and he kept his
word, though they thought it was school-


boy bravado. He deliberately hung himself
with a book strap, and the verdict of the
coroner's jury was simply “suicide by hang-
ing.”
	The above touching incident should be
widely circulated; for it touches a vital
question. One can hardly visit a school,
especially those famed for “good discipline,”
without being pained by the injudicious
punishment of the pupils. Usually the ob-
ject would seem to be not so much the good
of the pupil as the gratification of the
teacher.
	Having seen much of boys, both in school
and out, and as the mother of sons, I should
be glad were there some punishments de-
vised which would result in good to the
pupil, as is so seldom the case now. Un-
fortunately almost all the so-called disci-
plinarians are persons of too quick tempers
to be able to stop to judge of individual
merits as would a calmer temperament.
Two or three things concerning punishment
in school are suggested:
	1. Punishment should never be adminis-
tered in anger.
	2. Never in presence of others. It in-
jures the good and hardens the bad, always,
to be corrected in public.
	3. Ridicule should never be used by a
teacher toward a pupil. It simply breeds
anger and stubbornness.
	4. No brutal punishment which may af-
fect the health should ever be used—as
standing or sitting in dark or cold places,
enforced cold bathing, etc.
	The “Index” says wisely:
	“What shall be done then with the terma-
gants with whom we have to deal? That
is for the wise to ponder and decide. Per-
haps we shall be forced to deal with the
young, as God deals with us, leaving them
free to choose evil or good, never fearing
that ‘as they sow, so shall they also reap.’”
—“Woman’s Journal.”


A FEW QUESTIONS.

	Is there anything gained by a hashing and
re-hashing of family matters before children
or strangers.
	Are children taught to love and obey a pa-
rent by hearing his or her failings discussed,
or do strangers improve matters by inter-
fering? Certainly it spoils a visit when
quarreling, bickering, twitting and flinging
up of each other’s faults, take the place, be-
tween husband and wife, of pleasant hospi-
tality and general conversation.
	As children grow up they learn the fail-
ings of their parents fast enough, without
being told of them when too young to un-
derstand that no one is perfect. Who thinks
more of a man because he taunts his wife
before strangers; that she is a “perfect gad-
about, taking no interest in home;” or that
she “has no government, and is ruining the
children by indulgence,” or that “his young
ones are fools and their mother is willing
to let them grow up so rather than drive
them to their books with a birch rod, which
they need three times a day.” Are a wo-
man’s charms enhanced when she asserts be-
fore a totally uninterested party, that her
husband “is a perfect tyrant and treats his
wife and children as if they were brutes?”
or “that he neglects his family and takes
his pleasure abroad.” These are very deli-
cate subjects which ought never to be men-
tioned before children or outsiders, if peo-
ple would have home as pleasant as possible
to all who come within its influence.


FROM DIXIE.

		ST. GEORGE, Feb. 25th, 1874.
	WOMAN’S EXPONENT, truly valuable and
ever welcome, comes to us in the “Sunny
South,” full of interest and good counsel.
I derive much pleasure and satisfaction
from the perusal of its columns; and in the
thought that I am associated with those
who are endeavoring to teach the principles
of truth, and bring about a reign of righ-
teousness upon the earth. The people of
Southern Utah appreciate, and are enjoying
very much the society and teachings of our
worthy President. We also feel highly fa-
vored in having the society of our much
esteemed Sister B. W. Smith, who meets
with us frequently in the Relief Society,
and imparts much valuable instruction.
	The Society is increasing in numbers, and
a lively spirit of interest is manifested.
					MINERVA SNOW.


﻿DARE TO BE POLITE.
	Young lady, please read the following
choice bit, which we have selected for your
benefit, and then pass it to your brother; or
to the young gentleman who is fond of your
society:—
	"Why there's grandma Moore,"exclaimed
Eugene, "excuse me young ladies, but I
must go to the rescue."
	With a bow at parting, he hastened for-
ward, joined the old lady, adjusted her wa-
terproof, which was flying in the strong east
wind, took her umbrella from her tired
hand, and then drew that hand gently
through his arm,and together they trudged
on towards her home.
	"I thought so much more of Eugene"
said the lively girl who related this inci-
dent, "for this kind act. We were all go-
ing home from church together, and the
wind whistled and blew, and it was as much
as we young people could do, to hold um-
brellas and secure our waterproofs.
	There was little Mrs. Moore just in front
old and feeble, and it did seem as if the
storm made a plaything of her, and whirled
her about at will, until Sir Knight became
her champion. I don't believe every young
gentleman would have been so polite and
kind to an old lady."
	We believe that many young gentlemen
possess goodness of heart, sufficient to make
them realize their duty in all such cases,
or similar ones, but who often lack the
moral courage to obey the kind impulses of
their hearts. They are afraid of being
laughed at or of appearing "odd" if they
show attention to a poor old woman. Help
them, girls, to be more truly gallant than
they can be, while they pay respect to none
but the young, the gay and the fashionable.
Let them know you are aware, that if you
live, you will all be old and perhaps infirm
some day. And that you can better trust
your future with young men who show es-
pecial and marked deference to the aged,
than to those who would treat them with
the slightest disrespect.


A LATE WASHINGTON story is that Mrs.
Speaker Blaine had a difficulty with Mrs.
Senator Sprague about a cook. Meeting at
a dinner table with only the Hon. Zach
Chandler between them, Mrs. Sprague
leaning forward said, "I am sorry Mrs.
Blaine, that we have anything disagreea-
ble between us." The Hon. Zach was con-
siderably embarrassed, never having heard
the interesting story of the cook.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
			Millard County.
	,,	Delilah Oleson, Fillmore,
	,,	Belinda M. Pratt,	,,
Miss Mary Callister,		,,
			Beaver County.
Mrs. Ruth Tyler, Beaver,
			Iron County. 
	,,	Mary Weimer, Parowan,
Miss Josephine Smith,		,,
Mrs. Ellen Bunt, Cedar City.
	,,	Mary Ann Lunt, Cedar City.
			Kane County.
Mrs. Sophia Parker, Kanarra,
			Washington County.
	,,	Caroline Jackson, St. George. 
	,,	Elizabeth Canfield, Hamlin's Fort.


﻿			AGENTS.
			Salt Lake City.			
Mrs. Zina D. Young		Mrs. Elvira Barney,		
	,,	Margt. P. Young,			,,	Amanda Kimball
	,, 	Lily Staines, 				,,	Elizabeth Davis,
	,,	Sarah Smith,				,,	Hampton, 16th
	,,	Mary J. Thomson,					Ward,
	,,	Margaret Steel,			,,	Sarah E. Smith,
					Miss Sarah E. Russell.
						Weber County,
Mrs. A. M. Frodsham, Ogden,
	,,	Caroline Lunn, Huntsville,
Miss Maggie McBride, Eden,
					Oneida County, Idaho.
Mrs. Orissa Allred, St. Charles,
	,,	Mary Rich, Paris.
						Rich County
	,,	Ann E. Cook, Swan Creek.
	,,	Emily Woodruff, Randolph
						Cache County.
	,,	M. A. Maughan, Logan,
	,,	Jane S. Coleman, Smithfield.
	,,	H. A. Shaw, Hyrum.
	,,	Maria Parkinson, Wellsville.
						Box Elder County.
	,,	Harriet Snow, Brigham City.
						Davis County. 
	,,	Mary Clark, Farmington,
	,,	Aurelia Rogers,	"
	,,	Margaret Randell,Centreville,
	,,	Elizabeth Barlow, Bountiful,
	,,	Susan Grant,		,,
	,,	Sylvia Clark,		,,
						Salt Lake County. 
	,,	— Higgins, West Jordan,
	,,	Barbara Moses, Big Cottonwood.
						Tooele County.
Mrs. J. De La Mare, Tooele City.
Mrs. E. Clegg,			,,
Mrs. M. A. House, Grantsville.
						Utah County.	
	,,	—— Brown, Pleasant Grove,
	,,	Ann Bringhurst, Springville,
	,,	——Harrison,		,,
	,,	Margaret T. Smoot, Provo City,
	,,	Rebecca Standering, Lehi. 
						Juab County.
	,,	Amelia Goldsbrough, Nephi.
	,,	Ann Pitchforth,
	,,	Martha J. Coray, Mona,
	,,	Amy L. Bigler, Nephi.
						Sanpete County.
	,,	M. A. P. Hyde, Spring City.
	,,	Sarah Peterson, Ephraim,
	,,	Helena Madison, Gunnison.
Mrs. Boel Peterson, Ephraim.
Mrs. Mary Thorpe,		,,


TIRED OF FASHION.

	I write in seeming bitterness, but I am
neither spiteful nor an old maid, but a plain-
faced, common-sense woman, who while she
confesses her own weakness of following
the fashions, and even absurd ones, most
heartily deplores what you and I, and every
right-thinking woman regards as a most per-
nicious evil. When we consider the time
spent in shopping, in looking for nondescript
colors. for "trimmings to match," for "loves
of bonnets," for all the little bundles of fash-
ionable folly daintily tied by handsome
clerks, and add that to the time taken for
"looking up" the most fashionable modiste
to have them adjusted to our forms, with all
their ruffling, pinking, quilling, and "fol-de-
rols," and then remember that this is done,
sometimes daily for weeks and months, it is
perfectly apalling! O, such precious mo-
ments frittered away! Running up, in one
short year to golden hours, weeks and
months! The English maiden, who de-
pends on the cultivation of mind and quali-
ties of heart for entertaining, allows herself
just fifteen minutes for the adjustment of
her toilet, while her American cousin spends
hours and hours, curling, frizzing, crimping
and coloring her hair, rouging her cheeks,
and penciling her brows, and after the
laborious process is completed, she only suc-
ceeds in disguising her natural loveliness,
and destroying her precious health.—"Wes-
ter's Recorder.


SAYINGS AND DOINGS.

	Iceland has altogether the start of Amer-
ica. We propose to celebrate our nation's
centennial in 1876; but meanwhile, from the
land of snow and ice, volcanoes and geysers,
comes the intelligence that the Icelanders
propose to celebrate their millennial in 1874.
In 874 Ingolf, a Norwegian chief, planted a
small colony on that island, which had been
discovered a few years before. In about
half a century many thousands of hardy
settlers had established themselves on this
cold and barren isle. At one time the popu-
lation numbered no less than 100,000; but
the inhabitants have suffered greatly from
famines, epidemics, and volcanic casuali-
ties, and the number is now reduced to 
about 60,000. Iceland contains an area of
40,000 square miles, of which the glaciers
cover a surface  upward of 4,000 square
miles and there are thirty known volca-
noes, of which eight have been active with-
in a century. There are also numerous ther-
mal springs, the principal of which is the
Great Geyser, in which the water, at a
depth of seventy-two feet, is thirty degrees
above the boiling point. Water and stones
are thrown at intervals from this geyser to
a height of 100 feet. No grain of any kind
can be raised in Iceland, but vegetables can
be cultivated, and fish and birds are abun-
dant. Forests formerly abounded, but now
the island is almost destitute of trees, and
the want of fuel is severely felt. The island-
ers are of the Scandinavian race, and are by
no means lacking intellectual capacity. Al-
though there are but few educational insti-
tutions, domestic education is universal,
and the people are intelligent. Many of the
most valuable works of English literature
have been translated into the native tongue,
and are read and appreciated by the com-
mon people. All the inhabitants believe the
doctrines of the Reformation in their primi-
tive simplicity, and the majority of them
are Lutherans in profession. In short, the
Icelanders are as prosperous as could be ex-
pected of any people living in such a bar-
ren country, and deserve a national festival.


A SMART WOMAN.

	Two years ago Miss Dollie Runkle, of Des
Moines, Iowa, commenced as a clerk in the
extensive dry goods establishment of Knight
Brothers, without any previous experience.
A few days since, Mr. Knight being unwell
and unable to make purchases that the house
required, the duty devolved upon this young
lady, who bought from samples seven thou-
sand dollars worth of goods, and, to use Mr.
K.'s own language, "did it as well as any
merchant in town could have done it.".
Success honestly attained in any occupation
is worthy of commendation, and the suc-
cess that in two years' time enables an inex-
perienced girl to perform the duty of an ex-
perienced merchant is as notable as it is
worthy.


﻿The human mind is searching for truth
as it never sought before, and when truth is
found no earthly power can destroy its force,
or shake the allegiance of those who love it
for its own sake. Theology, which is of
man, may bend or break: in its efforts to em-
barrass or hedge in the irresistable advance
of scientific investigation but religion,
which is of God, has nothing to fear from
the progress of truth.


MRS. H. K. PAINTER, M. D.

			ELECTRIC PHYSICIAN.
	Electricity administered when cases requre.
    Office, East side of Second East Street, one and a hal[-]
blocks south of Theatre, Salt Lake City.


MARY H. BARKER M. D.,

Office opposite Old Constitution Building, Main
Street. Office hours––10 a. m. to 3 p. m.


MRS. CARPENTER,

			Physician and Surgeon,
Office at the Townsend House, Room No. 50.


			     H. DINWOODEY

Has removed his Furniture from Main St. to his three
				storey Brick Store on

FIRST SOUTH ST., 1/2 BLOCK WEST OF CO-OP. CORNER,

			Where he is prepared to do a

  WHOLESALE AS WELL AS A RETAIL BUSINESS.


H. WALLACE

	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies 
to purchase.


			NEW CLUB RATES.
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the
part of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of
the EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects con-
templated in its publication, by making it truly an
exponent of the views of the women of Utah, sus-
tained by them, read by them, and its columns
enriched with a widely circulated expression of their
thoughts, we offer the following terms to clubs, so as
to prepare for increasing the value and importance of
the paper with the beginning of the next volume,
which a larger subscription list will enable us to do:
10 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club		-	-	-	-	$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club		-	-	-	-	 26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club and a framed steel engrav-
	ing, 12x16 inches, of President Brigham
	Young, selling price, $2 50	-	-	 34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club, and a superior first proof,
	steel engraving of President Brigham
	Young, handsomely framed, selling
	price $4		-	-	-	-		48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time; and addi-
tions can be made after the first list of names has
been sent.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the
risk of the publishers.
	We hope ladies throughout the Territory, especial-
ly the Presidents and Secretaries of Relief Societies'
will endeavor to get up clubs, and that they will con-
stitute themselves agents for the extension of the
circulation of the EXPONENT.


﻿		Woman's Exponent.
