VOL. 2.		 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 1, 1874		 No. 17.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE DEATH of the baby violinist, who
has been performing at the Boston Theatre,
has been recently announced. It will be
remembered that he visited this city some
months since. Not yet seven years old, he
had been before the public for more than
three years. There is nothing wonderful
in the fact that one so early trained to life
before the footlights, should pass away so
soon; but there is a touching pathos in these
words, which are said to have been his last.
"Great God make room in Heaven for one
more little child."

	HARRIET BEECHER Stowe says of co-
education, that "there is a masculine and a
feminine element in all knowledge; and a
man and a woman put to the same study,
extract only what their nature fits them to
see––so that knowledge can be fully de-
veloped only when the two unite in the
search and share the spoils." The idea is a
beautiful one, and might go far towards
convincing some stupid people who imagine
otherwise, that there is much in science of
every kind for woman as well as man to
understand.

	THE ACCOMPLISHED "artiste," Madam
Parepa Rosa, died in London on the night
of the 22nd ult. This favorite songstress
was born in Edinburgh in the year 1839.
Her mother was a fine vocalist and, at the
time of her gifted daughter's birth, was
winning musical fame. Parepa Rosa's
maiden name was Euphrosyne Parepa. Her
father, Count Demetrius Parepa, was a Wal-
lachian nobleman. The mother was greatly
opposed to her daughter's appearing in pub-
lic. But at last gave way, and Parepa Rosa
made her "debut" in the Island of Malta,
in the winter of 1859. She was triumph-
antly successful in her efforts to charm the
musical world. She sand in all the prin-
cipal European languages. In Milan and
Naples, Florence, Rome, Lisbon, Germany,
England and America she has been receiv-
ed with unbounded enthusiasm, and has de-
lighted the public every where with her
wonderful powers of song. As the accom-
plished lady of Carl Rosa, she was idolized
by her husband, and but lately, she became
a mother. From all the laurels gained in
her worldly career, but more than all, from
the ties of affection which must have ren-
dered her triumphs as a public songstress
most sweet, Parepa Rosa has been snatched
away while yet having scarcely reached the
prime of life.


[Column 1]
		   LOCAL NOTES.

		AS PER REQUEST,

Your reporter visited the Council Chamber
of the present Legislature.
		
			(THE COUNCIL
Is the higher department of the Legislature,
bearing the relation to that body that the
Senate does to Congress.)

			PERSONAL FRIENDS
Extended respectful attentions to EXPONENT
Reporter.

[Column 2]
			AT THE TIME
Of organization, the following named gen-
tlemen were found to be entitled to seats in
the Legislative Council:
	Beaver, Iron and Piute Counties, Jesse N.
Smith.
	Box Elder and Weber, Lorenzo Snow.
	Cache and Rich, Moses Thatcher.
	Davis and Morgan, Arthur Stayner.
	Juab and Millard, Thomas Callister.
	Kane and Washington, Jacob Gates.
	Salt Lake, Tooele and Summit, Wilford
Woodruff, William Jennings, William H.
Hooper, John T. Caine.
	Sanpete and Sevier, Jos. A. Young.
	Utah and Wasatch, A. O. Smoot, L. E.
Harrington.
			A COMMITTEE
Upon permanent organization reported the
following as officers, who were duly elected:
	For President, Lorenzo Snow.
	  "	Chief Clerk, L. John Nuttall.
	  "	Ass't Clerk, Patrick Lynch.
	  "	Enrolling Clerk, James Furguson.
	  "	Engrossing Clerk, Rulon S. Wells.
	  "	Sergeant-at-arms, J. D. T. McAllister.
	  "	Door keeper, William Bell.
	  "	Messenger, B. Y. Woodruff.
	  "	Watchman, A. E. Hinkley. 

		YOUR REPORTER,
Having been much interested during her
visit to the Council Chamber, is ready to
pronounce its members altogether an intelli-
gent, gentlemanly body, well worthy of the
positions they hold, as Legislators for the
people.

	THE MOST PRACTICALLY EDUCATED
Learn that much valuable instruction comes
from humble and unpretentious sources.

			IT IS SAID
That when men wore jeans and women wore
calico, there were fewer commercial failures,
less competition among business men, less
domestic infelicity, fewer divorces, less
scandal and more contentment and peace
than now. Who doubts it?

	THE CHEAPEST AND BEST
Soap for toilet use is pure Castile by the lb
or bar. French as well as American scien-
tists assert that the various toilet soaps and
vinegars contain arsenic and other deleteri-
ous poisons.

		 MEN AND WOMEN
Are equally responsible for the use of their
talents, faculties and powers.
The law of humanity requires each to seek
earnestly to promote the best interest of the
great family of Earth.

		WHILE TRUSTED MEN
Are regardless of justice, and sacred consti-
tutional rights are hanging, as it were, by a
thread in our Congressional Hall, patriotism
wears the blush of shame for national dis-
honor.

	MISS M. E. COOK'S GRADED SCHOOL.

We had the pleasure of visiting this admir-
ably conducted institution, on Friday, Jan.
23d, and witnessing some of the closing ex-
ercises of the second term of the year. We
were much gratified with the degree of ad-
vancement that was manifested in analyzing
principles of penmanship, and in elocution-

[Column 3]
ary exercises. The school is divided into
Senior, Junior and Primary grades with the
following list of efficient teachers: Louisa
Ashby, Emma Wells, Clarissa Smith, Lu-
cretia Heywood, May Wells and Lilly Tay-
lor.
	In addition to the above, Eliza R. Snow
assists in giving lessons in composition and
elocution. The third term of the school
year commenced on Monday, 26th of Jan.


HUMOROUS.

	A BAD habit to get into—A coat that’s not
paid for.

	MOSQUITOES NEVER trust—they invaria-
bly present their bills in advance.

	A VOLUME that will bring tears to your
eyes—A volume of smoke.

	ADVERTISING FOR a wife is just as absurd
as it would be to get measured for an um-
brella.

	THE LEAP year style of popping the ques-
tion now is, “Dont you want me to wash
dishes for you?"

	WHAT IS the difference between a Jew and
a lawyer? The one gets his law from the
prophets, the other his profits from the law.

	JOSH BILLINGS says: "When you strike
ile stop boring; many a man has bored
clean thru, and let all the ile run out at the
bottom.

	"BUB" ASKED a perplexed pedestrian,
"which is the quickest way for me to get to
the Eastern depot?" Accommodating news-
boy, "Run,"

	A NEW style of boys' trowsers has been
invented in Boston, with a copper seat,sheet-
iron knees, riveted down the seams, and
water-proof pockets to hold broken eggs.

	A MAIDEN lady who had once been jilted,
wrote her own epitaph, as follows:

		"Here lies the body of one
		Who died of constancy alone.
		Stranger, advance with step courageous;
		For this disease is not contageous!"

	"SO YOU don't care about donkey riding,
missy. And why? "O, I've got a pony,and
one doesn’t care about donkeys after that,
you know." "Has a pony got more legs than
a donkey, then?" Missy (who doesn't like
to be chaffed)—“Yes, exactly twice as many
as some donkeys that I know of."

	"I AM a self-made man," said a native of
Stonington the other day to a New York
gentleman with whom he had been driving
a sharp bargain. "Glad to hear you say so,"
responded the New Yorker, who had been
worsted in the trade, "for it relieves the
Lord of a great responsibility."

	"Oh, AUNT Hester, how can you be such
a hypocrite as to go to church, and exhort
and pray, and pretend to be so good, after
stealing and lying as you have?  I should
think you would expect that God would
strike you dumb."
	"Lordy, missus," responded Aunt Hester,
"do you spec I’se goin’ to gib up my bressed
Jesus just for one ole turkey hen?"


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[For the EXPONENT
		WAY SIDE GEMS.

	Cease young sister, young and fair,
	All thy useless thought and care;
	Follow not in follies train,
	All her senseless arts disdain.

	Gather for thy future life
	Gems with precious knowledge rife;
	Gems of endless beauty rare,
	Gems, not for thy glossy hair,
	Gems whose splendor will outvie
	All that,s bright of earth or sky:

	Gems of untold, countless cost,
	Gems too precious to be lost
	In the giddy whirl of life,
	'Midst its scenes of jealous strife!

	Treasures rare, which polished bright,
	Gleam with everlasting light:
	All that's good and pure of earth
	To these treasures owe their birth.

	Go then, fill thy youthful mind
	With all things noble and refined.
	Not the richness of the dress,
	But what hearts and minds posses

	True respect and love will win—
	Not all without nor all within;
	But when nicely blent with care—
	All fair within, without is fair.
BEAVER CITY.					A. B. C.


﻿R. S. REPORTS.

	A Young Ladies Retrenchment associa-
tion was organized in the 16th Ward of this
city on Saturday the 24th ult. Miss Mary
Williams was elected President. The occa-
sion was one of interest. Eliza R. Snow,
Mrs. Horne, Mary E. Cook and others spoke
words of instruction and encouragement ap-
propreate to the occasion. Their (the young
ladies) motto is “Improvement.” May their
efforts be crowned with success.
							S. M. K.


FROM DIXIE.

			ST. GEORGE, JAN. 15, 1874.
	DEAR EXPONENT;
	St. George is now enjoying a sweet, gen-
tle rain. Since we have been here, we have
had but one-half day’s rain, until to-day, to
hinder the workmen on the Temple. I
never before saw the roads about St. George
so good as they have been this winter.
There are sixty men at work on the founda-
tion of the temple, and a hundred and fifty
in the quarries, hauling rock, lime, sand and
other material. The ground where the tem-
ple is being built is so tinctured with min-
eral that it will dissolve sand stone and
limestone in three years, for this reason the
foundation and basement are built of black
volcanic rock so very hard that the mineral
does not effect it. The boulders from which
it is quarried resemble cast iron, and it
weighs thirty-four lbs. more per cubic foot
than sandstone. These stones are hauled off
the mountain west of St. George about two
and a half miles. We expect the whole of
the black rock will be laid by the first of
February. About one hundred and eighty
cords were yet necessary to finish the work
when we came here. Large quantities of
red sandstone are already on the ground.
It has to be hauled about two miles; and fif-
teen hundred cords of this beautiful rock
will be required to complete the temple.
The quarry from which this sandstone is
obtained is worth visiting.
	The Saints here seem healthy and pros-
perous; their meetings are well attended.
I met with the Relief Society on Tuesday
last, had a large attendance and a splendid
meeting. 		 BATHSEHBA W. SMITH.


[Column 1]
			A LETTER.

	MOUNT PLEASANT, NOV. 16th, 1873.
My Dear Sisters of the 11th Ward Retrench-
	ment Society:—
	With pleasure will memory ever recall
your dear names, and bright, happy faces:—
And our sacred associations in singing, pray-
ing and exchanging ideas, are cherished as
the sweetest and holiest reminiscences of
my life. O! would that I could ever feel
that heavenly influence that I have so often
experienced, when surrounded by you my
beloved sisters! How often have I felt the
presence of angels—and most truly do I be-
lieve they lingered near, rejoicing in the
words of the humblest child who endeavor-
ed to raise her voice in the cause of Re-
trenchment.
	Since being deprived of the great privi-
lege of joining you in these meetings, I
have frequently desired to write you a few
of my ideas of life, and the numerous duties
connected therewith. Earnestly desiring
to be inspired and dictated by the Spirit of
Truth, I give you the following thoughts,
hoping they may prove beneficial to you.
Often do I reflect upon the mission of wo-
man; and of the great opportunities afford-
ed us in these Societies, of preparing our-
selves for the great work of life. To me, it
seems more adapted to this purpose than
any other organization upon the earth; for
in addition to the natural capabilities of
women, we have the spirit of revelation to
aid us. If we lived up to our privileges,
how wise would be the women of Utah!
Though sad is the fact, it is too true that
very many of this people are careless and
negligent in regard to religious matters.
The young do not seem to realize the ne-
cessity of preparation for future usefulness.
Momentary pleasures occupy more time and
thought than do the stern realities of life.
But if woman ever fills the holy, sacred
station designed by the great Author of her
being, it is by looking life bravely in the
face, reflecting upon her duties, and by care-
ful preparation for those duties. Then let
us reflect upon what it is the desire of every
true woman to accomplish—to live a noble
life of usefulness. Oh! may we never let
an opportunity pass of doing good, for every
kind word, every kind act will be as dia-
mond stars in our crowns. Our merciful
Father desires his children to assist and
bless each other; and though we may con-
stantly impart our knowledge, our wisdom,
our kindness and love to others, the foun-
tains will be still undiminished; and these
virtues, by being used to the glory of God,
and the benefit of his children, will become
the brighter, the more potent, and power-
ful; and our hearts will abound with joy and
peace. "Then let our lights shine." By
keeping the Spirit of the Lord we will have
light, cheerful hearts; and how glorious is
the influence of such spirits in the home cir-
cle. Here I deem is woman's true field of
labor. To our parents, how much we are
indebted for all their loving kindness; but
all the return they crave for years of con-
stant, unselfish love, is our gratitude and
obedience. Then should we not freely give
these? And more—by our gentle love,
should we not seek to comfort and cheer
their declining years? And much, indeed,
can we assist them by our influence and ex-
ample in governing the younger brothers
and sisters of the family. In this, her first
home, woman's power of usefulness is very
great, in performing the duties she owes her
parents, brothers and sisters. If her respon-
sibilities are great in this era of her life,
how much are they increased when she as-

[Column 2]
sumes the sacred position of wife and of
mother! Would it were in my power to
impress upon your minds the necessity, as I
feel it now, of preparation for these most
important offices in life. Study, reflect upon
these things! Seek to develop the faculties
of your minds, and improve well your time
in gaining useful knowledge; and especially
seek to understand the principles of the gos-
pel. Cultivate the love of truth and right-
eousness, and God will bless you and give
you His Spirit to aid and guide you aright.
	That you may each one have long life,
health and strength and power to overcome
all evil, and gain eternal life in the King-
dom of Heaven is the prayer of your friend
and sister, who desires your good will, your
faith and prayers. 		ELLIS R. SHIPP.


﻿For the EXPONENT.
		LANGUAGE.
	When there are so many pleasant and ex-
pressive words and phrases in the English
language, it seems a pity that any one should
be foolish enough to make use of slang
phrases, and vulgar words. Especially is
this manner of speech unbecoming and un-
dignified when proceeding from the lips of
young ladies. Yet I regret to say, that even
here among the daughters of the Latter-day
Saints, it is becoming far too prevalent. I
am sure that young ladies who indulge in
the use of slang talk, cannot realize how it
grates upon the ear of a refined and well
educated person, or they would never suffer
themselves to speak any such unnecessary
words.
	How it sounds to hear a young lady answer
a question with “Not much!" or “Not for
Joe!” or remark if a statement is made,“Oh
that's too thin!” I think if the origin of
such low phrases was known to all the girls
they would never be spoken by any of them.
But even were there nothing worse attached
to them,(as the following in a measure after
the fashions of the base and ignorant,) such
expressions give evidence of bad taste and a
want of proper culture. Let them not be
known among the children of Zion—with
the teachings and examples we now have,
we should be above anything that could be
counted unworthy of the best societies.
							NELL.


A SURE HELPER.

	How often we say, in great anxiety, "Who
shall roll us away the stone? and when we
look again, behold "the stone is rolled
away," though it was very great. Every
time God helps us out of a difficulty, we
should return and give glory to Him, and
then go on our way with joy and fresh cour-
age. We should often review the circum-
stances, and see how God was at work for
us, maybe in distant places, at the very
time of our trouble; how he was ordering
events and disposing of men's wills, so as to
bring us just the help we needed. It is un-
Christian to call these occurrences "chance"
or "good luck." "All our steps are num-
bered." Let us learn to see God's hand in
all that befalls us. An old man who had
been long engaged in business said, "I have
had my ups and downs, but as I review my
life, those things which I thought, at the
time, most against me have proved the best
for me even temporally, besides teaching
me submission to Him who rules the
world."—Sunday-School World.


A BLONDE woman is considered a fright
in Russia.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[For the EXPONENT.
			OUR DAUGHTERS.
	"What shall we do with our daughters!"
	Mrs. Livermore, a popular lecturer in the
East, asks this question of almost every
audience she addresses, and it is echoed on
every hand: here in Utah, mothers gravely
look each other in the face and repeat the
echo. What is the matter, and what is the
remedy ?
	The celebrated Mrs. Howe replies, “make
cooks of them.” That may answer a very
good purpose under some circumstances, but
will that supply the only deficiency in Wo-
men’s Education ? Are they taught every
thing else that is essential to their happiness
in life ? Do they possess every other requi-
site qualification which will help them to fill
Woman’s Mission here? I think not.
	There are exceptions certainly some girls
have mothers who possess an unbounded in-
fluence over their whole lives and charac-
ters—mothers who have kept themselves
free from the excesses and extravagances,
which this generation indulge in to such an
unwarrantable extent—Puritan mothers, if
you will permit the expression—and they
have restrained as much as possible, this
spirit which prevails in the world. It not
only carries the sway in dress, in style of
living and so forth, but in ideas as well.
	Girls get the most exaggerated ideas of
love and friendship and all the relations per-
taining to material existence; and this spirit
is fast gaining ground among our daughters.
	How shall we stem the current ? And
who is to step forward in this great work of
reformation ? Have we come out from the
world, and embraced the gospel of salva-
tion, revealed from heaven for the express
purpose of redeeming the human family,
from these social evils—for which we have
endured persecution and privation, being
despised not only by the world at large, but
our own kindred, I say have we endured all
this, to allow the same evils to spring up in
our midst, and not lift our voices or our pens
to cry out against them ?
	It is an easy matter to say it is the moth-
er’s fault, in speaking of our neighbor, but
when the evil creeps into your own house,
when you find it springing up under your
own eye, whose fault is it then ? Certainly
not yours—O no!
	We profess to have more light than the
world, to live purer lives, to be led by the
Spirit of God. Then we ought to move in
this matter, and show the women of the
world, that we know what to do with our
daughters.
	Do we teach them the principles of the
 gospel ? I believe wo do so far as its first
principles extend; and even the ordinances
of the House of the Lord; but do we instill in-
to their minds the necessity of living every
day in accordance with the Holy Spirit ?
Or do we, because we ourselves yield to
temptation, call on our children for sympa-
thy, in the trials of domestic life ? Do we
let them see and understand we are living
unhappily, when our holy religion should be
sufficient support, under all our trials ? If
 we are suffering from any unhappy state of
mind, in all probability we are in fault; let
us not throw the blame on any one else,
until we are sure that we are ourselves en-
tirely exempt from blame in the matter.
	I have little feeling for that mother who
allows herself for one moment, to speak to
her children against their father. If she
must speak, let it be to some one, who is
herself married, and can understand and
appreciate the feelings of a wife. That men
are imperfect is true enough, but for heav-
[Column 2]
en’s sake let your husband’s faults be sacred
from the eyes of his children!
	I am fully aware that in speaking thus
plainly, I subject myself to criticism, but I
can bear that better than to see this evil
spreading so far in Zion. Many women do
not consider the influence their words, their
actions, their looks even, have upon their
daughters. I assure you this is not imagi-
nation, and in reading this, some mother
may perchance, bethink herself and restrain
her inclination to ask for sympathy; she
does not need it, unless from her husband,
and if he does not give it voluntarily, all
the fault-finding in the world, will not call
it forth.
	Some of our good sisters will not sustain
us in our efforts for the benefit of women;
say we get together to gossip, and all that
sort of thing; ridicule our endeavors and
pretend to think we make them to gain no-
toriety; that we are “strong-minded," un-
womanly, and so forth. Thank God there
are some women who have stamina enough
to stand boldly forth in defence of right,
and to cry out against wickedness under
whatever flattering guise it may appear! It
matters little what name they give us, so
long as our motives are pure, and our actions
honorable.
	Are we not all interested in this matter ?
Is it an individual consideration ? One may
say, “I am capable of managing my own af-
fairs; I do not choose to be interfered with,
my daughters are safe.” But will they re-
main so ? This spirit is contagious as dis-
ease it is carried from house to house, it pre-
vails in the ball-room and the Theatre, the
very atmosphere seems full of it.
	The Young Ladies Societies which have
been formed, are calculated to check the
progress of these evils; to benefit our young
ladies temporally and spiritually; it is not
simply retrenchment in dress, (which seems
to scare every body so,) but it comprises
everything which will tend to refine, elevate
and purify them socially. Every mother in
Israel should encourage the young, especially
her own daughters, to sustain these associa-
tions.
	We are seeking to open a channel of in-
formation more satisfying than the gilded
literature of the present day, which is so
widely circulated: every woman’s mind
craves some mental food and a certain vari-
ety of it; but it is not safe, in this day and
age, to let young girls choose for them-
selves; the moral taste has become vitiated
and wants purifying. Mothers, do not let
your little girls read books you know noth-
ing about; you cannot watch them too
closely; you are careful, many of you, of
their physical health, afraid they should eat
too much, or dance too much, or wear their
clothes too tight, or not dress warm enough,
and keep their feet dry. That is all right;
but does it ever occur to you, that they can
drink in moral poison from impure and un-
healthy reading, as well as from associating
with people whose morals are not in accor-
dance with the principles of virtue and
piety ? Every mother should know her
daughter’s associates, and what she reads.
Oftentimes mothers are satisfied if their
girls are at home reading instead of gad-
ding about showing themselves on the
street; making all manner of chance ac-
quaintances; but I would charge you, moth-
ers, be sure it is the right kind of reading.
“It is only a love story," may be the answer
if you ask them; but perhaps some of you
mothers are not aware that Infidelity, Spir-
itualism and other evil influences are insidi-
ously making their way into novels, poison-
ing the atmosphere of light literature.
“Books are companions," and some persons
[Column 3]
have an idea they cannot be bad compan-
ions, but it is a mistaken one.
	There are among our people, very many
parents, who have gathered from the old 
countries, who cannot read at all; how are
they to choose suitable books for their daug-
ters, and whose judgment should they take 
in the matter ? If they will influence them
to join the Young Ladies’ Retrenchment So-
cieties, they will then be instructed in rela- 
tion to this matter, by those thoroughly
posted on the subject.
	I have received the impression, in con-
versing with some of our young ladies, in
regard to joining the Societies, that they
think we want to restrict them in those
privileges and enjoyments, natural to the
young; that we wish them to be long-faced,
over-serious, and in short as they express it,
“awful religious!”
	We do not believe in long-faces; cheerful-
ness is one of the Christian graces, there
can be no better proof of a clear conscience,
than a uniform cheerfulness of disposition.
Our religion is not to be put on and thrown
off, as suits the occasion and circumstances, 
it is an every-day affair, it regulates, or
should do, our whole lives, and gives us
complete self-control in all the changing vi-
cissitudes of our mortal existence.
	Mothers, let me again urge upon you, to 
use your utmost influence in assisting in the
work we have undertaken; if your daugh-
ters are free from the spirit and influence
of the world, let them help to make others
so; their influence may be more beneficial
than that of older persons. Let us work to- 
gether, for "union is power."
	I am thankful to my Heavenly Father
that we are now able to edit a woman’s pa-
per, and I consider it a duty incumbent up-
on every woman in Israel, to use her best
efforts to support and circulate it. Read it
yourselves, have your daughters read it
and if it is not good enough, help to make
it better.
	We should be the ones to lead out, and
let the world see we are not ashamed of the
Cause we have espoused. We are not re-
stricted in our ideas of woman’s privileges;
we are not in bondage as they suppose; we
are perfectly capable of thinking for our-
selves; let us lift up our voices against er-
ror, and preach what we are trying to prac-
tice in purity, showing by our words that
we believe in the doctrine we have em
braced.
	We wish our daughters to understand
themselves, perfectly and thoroughly; why
they were created, and what their future lives 
are to be; how they are to fill their missions
here, control themselves, overcome every
inherent weakness, and live pure and holy
lives. Let us give them the benefit of our
experience so far as it will have a tendency 
to stimulate them in the path of duty, and I
save them the bitter lessons we have dearly
bought, if possible guard them from evil
influences, within and without, that our
garments may be clear, and we may have it
said to us, “you have been faithful in de-
veloping the precious gems commited to
your keeping.” We shall assuredly be held 
accountable in a coming day for all these
gems. What is there more precious to a
mother than her daughters’ welfare and
happiness ? Nothing.
	Is there any sacrifice too great to be made, 
to secure this blessing for her child? None. 
Then be careful of your words, do not throw
temptation in their way yourself. Be sure
you share their confidence on all subjects,
pray with them and for them, as well as to
advise them, and your influence as mothers
cannot fail to do good.
				Blanche Beechwood.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT

		L. GEEENE RICHARDS, EDITOR.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3. 
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents; East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Miss Cornelia H. Horne, Business Manager. Office hours
from 9 to 12 a. m., and from 2 to 5 p. m., on Mondays and
Fridays.
	Address all business communications to
					Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

		SALT LAKE CITY, FEB. 1, 1874.


﻿SPLINTERS.
	General Garibaldi has published a book
which gives an account of his Sicily expe-
dition; it bears the title of "Ten thousand"
.........Clerkenwell, London, has a regular
woman preacher, Miss Fransis Power Cobb
.......A brief "Life of the late Mrs. Parton"
(Fanny Fern) has lately been prepared by
Mr. James Parton.........Tschaggenny, the
Brussels animal painter, is dead...A Bruns-
wick man doped a nest-egg with a powerful
emetic for the benefit of a neighbor whom
he suspected of stealing his eggs, and his
own son was taken very sick the same eve-
ning......An old woman is reported to have
been killed in Nevada lately, for witch-craft
......The National Grange of Patrons of Hus-
bandry meets in St. Louis, Misouri, on the
4th inst......A Bethel, Kansas, man, wants
to know which is the correct term, "How's
your woman?" or "How's your wife?" The
"Rural New Yorker" thinks either one is
correct......A Connecticut man who stole
melons from a farmer last year, has sent
the seeds back to him in a letter, with the
request that he will plant the same this year
.........The Ville du Havre is the fourteenth
large Atlantic liner totally lost......Dinners
are being supplied to poor children in Lon-
don at two cents per head......Ralls Co., Mo.,
is troubled with hog cholera......Rome, with
all its learning, is said to have fewer book-
stores than Providence, R. I.......The next
European world's exhibition will be at Ber-
lin......The Supreme Court of Texas, declares
the late election of that state unconstitu-
tional....Boston pays her professional choirs,
according to report, an aggregate of 142,000
a year.......One hundred and twenty poor
families in Connecticut received abundant
Christmas dinners from one man......A mill
has been invented in England in which the
grain is pounded into flour, trip hammers
taking the place of stones......Scientists say 
that the son of Agassiz promises even great-
er usefulness; and quite as wide-spread
fame as his father.....A Hindoo lady, laying 
aside the prejudices of her people, is visit-
ing in London with her husband, and con-
forming freely to the customs of the coun-
try......Albani, the American soprano, a na-
tive of Albany, has met with great success
on the stage at St. Petersburg......The torn 
and blood-stained play bill with which Lau-
ra Keene attempted to staunch the wound
of President Lincoln in his box at Ford's
Theatre, on the night of the assassination,
is still kept by Treasurer Spinner as a relic.
......The Spanish colonel, Montayer, is re-
ported a prisoner among the Cubans......The
Rothschilds are considered to be worth about
1,000,000,000—twelve of them including
their individual fortunes......The death of
the Siamese Twins is recorded in late jour-
nals.


HINTS FROM HETTIE.

	TO THE YOUNG LADIES OF UTAH.
MY DEAR FRIENDS:—
	Allow me, through the columns of the
EXPONENT, to offer you a few words.
	It is always pleasing and gratifying to me,
to be able to have my weak voice heard in
relation to the work in which we are en-
gaged.
	We are not, generally, I am afraid, aware
of the responsibilities resting upon us as
daughters of Zion.
	Although young, we have missions to
perform here on the earth, as well as those
good and honorable women who have lived
before us, and those who are yet living to
instruct us in the way in which we should


walk. Our first duty is to listen and learn.
	We should remember that we are yet
young, and liable to be led astray by the
evil influences with which we are daily sur-
rounded.
	Do not, I beg of you, young ladies,let the
“evil doer”get possession of you.
	Remember, that once in his power,you are
utterly lost, as it were; and that you will be
cast out of the society of those who have
loved you. You are no longer respected by
those with whom you were associated. They
do not wish to be in your company. Seek
after the GOOD things of the world, and let
the evil things go to the wind and be swept
from your midst. Strive to live daily and
hourly nearer and nearer to that great Be-
ing, who gave you life, that you may merit
His smiles and blessings, and have His good
spirit to lead and guide you aright continu-
ally; that it may be said of you when your
worldly career is ended “Well done thou
good and faithful servant, enter thou into
the joy of the Lord." 		HETTIE.
	SALT LAKE CITY, Jan. 16th, 1874.


TAKE IT EASY.﻿  

	Perhaps the power of well meant kindness,
can place an inexperienced individual in no
position more painfully trying than that of a
public speaker. If anything is calculated to
take all vanity and self-conceit out of a timid
person, it must be an unexpected call to make
an extemporaneous address to a large and intel-
ligent assemblage. It is unnecessary for us to
expatiate upon the feelings it produces. Those
who have realized them, know that they are in-
describable, and those who have not, could gain
but small information from an attempted des-
cription.
	But we have no idea of frightening any one
or of giving rise to a belief that the ordeal is
one which people in general could not endure.
Severe as it certainly is to one of a sensitive na-
ture, we never heard of its producing death
And we have encouragement to offer on the
subject rather than to dissuade any one from
an attempt at lecturing or public speaking. We
are pleased with having received a prescript
tion—not for a preventive of the peculiar im-
pressions of which we have spoken, we are not
aware that such exists—but a remedy which if
properly applied will serve to alleviate the pain
of the sufferer, and at length prove to be a com-
plete restorative. At the first meeting for or-
ganizing the 14th Ward Literary Association,
the Chairman gave the following illustration.
	While studying in his younger days, to be-
come an extempore speaker, he was at one time
under the tuition of a learned and noted orator,
whose business it was to criticise the addresses
made by the young men of the school. At one
time when he—the Chairman—had taken the
stand, although he had studied well the subject


upon which he was to speak, soon after he com-
menced speaking, a sudden trembling seized
him; every thing seemed a perfect blank be-
fore his mind and a flatter break down was
never completed than he then made. His crit-
ic was close at hand, and brought him to his 
senses by calmly saying, "Take it easy—don't
be in a hurry—plenty of time you know—don't
get excited." So instead of taking his seat at
this critical moment, and considering himself
beaten, the young man stood like a statue be-
fore his audience, until he had collected his
thoughts and composed himself sufficiently to
proceed with his subject. He then went on and
completed a very creditable address.
	Every one who reads it, will doubtless, readi-
ly understand the moral of this "lesson." And,
young people, study, reflect, and make your-
selves familiar with subjects of general inter-
est. Then, when you are before an assembly to
deliver an address, "don't be in a hurry" don't
forget there is "plenty of time." And when
you feel a fluttering nervous, sensation coming
over you, remember the remedy and "take it
easy."


BIRTH-DAY GREETING.

	The 21st of Jan., 1874, was the seventieth an-
niversary of the birth-day of Miss Eliza R.
Snow.
	Early in the evening of that day, she was
called upon by a goodly number of the sisters,
who met in honor of the day—to pay their res-
pects to her, and offer congratulations. Although
a surprise, the reception and greeting were most
cordial and happy Miss Snow expressed her
gratification and recognition of the high honor
conferred by her sisters, in those renewed testi-
monies of regard in their kind remembrances
on that her seventieth birth-day. She said that
the day had been a pleasant one, and, to her
that anniversary was the most satisfactory of
any within her remembrance. It was a pleas-
ing reflection that she was really seventy years
of age.
	Remarks suitable to the occasion, were made
by Mrs. M.I. Horne, Mrs. M.T. Smoot and others,
when the following lines were read:

		SEVENTY YEARS OLD.

 GREETING TO MISS ELIZA R. SNOW.

Daughter of heaven, beloved and blest!
Of richest rarest gifts possess'd;
Bright gems of wisdom, fairest pearls of thought,
Bestowed by heaven's own hand, divinely wrought
With faith and hope, and with such charity,
That knowing, we, in meek simplicity,
As friends, as sisters, dare these boons extend,
With cheerful hearts, not fearing to offend.

With love, with confidence, and gratitude
For all thy teachings and examples good,
We bless thee—name thee worthy to be blest
With all earth’s bounties, richest, sweetest, best.
And more, the Treasures of Eternity
In glorious fulness are in store for thee.
And Zion’s daughters gather ’round thee here;
To offer greetings and fond words of cheer.

Have we not known thee, proven, tried and true––
And feel we not; all this and more is due?
Hast thou not blest us all, and each apart––
And know we not the yearnings of thy heart—
Thy soul’s desire for Zion’s EVERY WEAL––
Do not the Works the Laborer's Self reveal?
Live on, work on, still firm and bold.
Though Seventy years, thou art not old.

How kindly doth our Father’s will,
Yet spare thee to thy sisters still!
And firmer grow thy faith and might,
Yet long to battle for the right;
For this thy sisters humbly pray––
That thou mayest cheer and bless the way,
And bear with grace each coming test—
Daughter of heaven, beloved and blest.

	After the reading, Mrs. Z. D. Young remarked
that the poem spoke the feelings of all present


——Miss Snow was much moved by the warm and
heartfelt expressions of appreciation from the
sisters—briefly responding by saying that her
heart was too full for utterance—she was grate-
ful to God and to her sisters for all the testimo-
nials of love and confidence, which made her
feel very humble, and desirous of living wor-
thy of the blessing bestowed.
	It was an evening never to be forgotten by
those present. Indeed, we think a more inter-
esting and enjoyable was seldom, if ever, spent.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


STRONG-MINDED WOMEN.

	Mrs. Mary I. Horne, President of the 14th
Ward Relief Society, and also of the Co-opera-
tive Retrenchment Associations in this city,
considers herself a strong-minded woman. Not,
she says, in the common acceptance of the 
term, but in taking the words for what they
really mean. She thinks that any woman who
lives above reproach in all respects, who honors
her calling as a wife and mother and who seeks
to assist in the bringing forth of reforms, cal-
culated to benefit and bless mankind, may
justly be considered strong-minded, and that
there is no stigma attached to the term when
applied to such. We heartily concur in these
sentiments. Some weeks since, one of the
agents for the EXPONENT called upon us. While
in conversation, she remarked that a lady to
whom she had offered the EXPONENT rejected
it, saying that she was not a "strong-minded
woman." We agreed that she could not have
been. And when our visitor asked if we consid-
ered her-the agent-a strong-minded woman, we
unintentionally gave her an unpleasant feeling,
by readily replying in the affirmative.
	In our estimation, it is not the strongest or
greatest minds of the earth, that are continu-
ally reaching after something which they do not
possess, while neglecting to make proper use of
blessings and privileges within their reach.
But even these, though mistaken in their aims,
we regard as not so weak as those who do not
undertake to learn their duties as social beings
on the earth. Who neither possess ambition to
accomplish the good which lies within their
power to do, nor to advance to higher pursuits,
	If woman, to perform her mission wisely,
must work as well as man, it is as much her
duty to think as it is his. And if she must ob-
serve all laws as he must, she has as great need
to understand them, and as much right to as-
sist in framing them.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	AFTER VISITING the Representative's Hall of
the Legislature now in session in this city, an
intelligent lady remarked that she "saw noth-
ing being done there that women could not do."
We have reason to believe that the liberality of
at least the majority of the honorable body of
Representatives, would lead them to acceed to
this particular view of the lady.

	THERE HAS lately been organized, in the 14th
Ward, "A young peoples' literary association,"
with Mr. A. Miner as President.  This associa-
tion is instead of a young gentlemen's or young
ladies' society; and the result of such co-opera-
tion will probably be more beneficial to both
sexes than would be derived from an organiza-
tion of either separately. Although the organ-
ization has been formed for the special advan-
tage and improvement of the young people of
the Ward, we understand that their constitu-
tion admits to membership any person of good
moral character, without reference to age or
place of residence.


FROM THE "Juvenile Instructor" of Jan. 17th,
we learn that at a convention of Sunday School
superintendents and teachers, held at Provo
City, Utah Co., a County Sunday School Union
was formed. We are pleased to mark the grow-
ing interest which is manifested in different
parts of the Territory, in the cause of Sabbath
Schools, and of general education.

	IT SHOULD be remembered by the ladies of
this city, that Monday, the 9th inst., is the day
set apart for the election of municipal officers.
And each one should show her appreciation of
the right of franchise which she holds, by be-
ing promptly on hand, and fully prepared to do
her part intelligently in the matter of electing
officers for the city.

	THE WORK on the Utah Northern Rail Road
is progressing finely. We learned from Mr
Chas. Nibley, the general Freight and Ticket
agent, who was in town the other day, that the
cars would run to Ogden in a few days.

	BLANCHE BEECHWOOD sends us an apologet-
ical note, on account of the length of her arti-
cle which appears in this issue. We accept her
apology, and, although preferring that our cor-
respondents would write briefly, believing that
most of our readers have the same preference,
we advise every one who reads the EXPONENT,
to read the article referred to, under the head-
ing of "Our Daughters."


A BEAUTIFUL TRIBUTE TO A WIFE.

	I was guided in my affections only by the
blind affections of my youth. I found an
intelligent companion and a tender friend,
a prudent monitress, the most faithful of
wives, and a mother as tender as children
ever had the misfortune to lose. I met a
woman who, by tender management of my
weaknesses, gradually corrected the most
pertinacious of them. She became prudent
from affection; and though of the most gen-
erous nature, she was taught frugality and
economy by her love in me. During the
most critical moment of my life she relieved
me. She gently reclaimed me from dissi-
pation; she propped my weak and irresolute
nature; she urged my indolence to all the
exertions that have been useful or credita-
ble in me, and she was perfectly at hand to
admonish my heedlessness or improvidence.
To her I owe whatever I am; to her what-
ever I shall be. In her solicitude for my
interest she never for a moment forgot my
feelings or character. Even in her occasional
resentment, for which I but too often gave
her cause (would to God I could recall those
moments!) she had no sullenness or acrimo-
ny. Her feelings were warm, nay, impetu-
ous; but she was placable, tender and con-
stant. Such was she whom I have lost, when
her excellent natural sense was rapidly im-
proving, after eight years' struggle and dis-
tress had bound us fast together, and molded
our tempers to each other; when a knowl-
edge of her worth had refined my youthful
love into friendship, and before age had de-
prived it of much of its original ardor. I
lost her, alas! the choice of my youth, the
partner of my misfortunes, at a moment
when I had prospects of her sharing my bet-
ter days.—Sir James McIntosh.


No man stumbles upon success. Good luck
may open the way to the front, but he will
never reach it without brains. "What do
you mix your paints with?" asked a visitor
of Opie, the painter. "With brains sir,"
was the reply.


THE SEX.

	MRS. J. H. BIGGERS was elected copying
clerk by the California Legislature.

	WOMAN'S HOPES are woven of sunbeams;
shadows annihilate them.—George Eliot.

	MRS. ALEX. Agassiz, wife of the son of
Prof. Agassiz, died Dec. 22 of pneumonia.

	MISS CLARISSA Petit of Logansport, Ind.,
wears a $300 gold watch on the strength of
being the most popular lady in the city, ac-
cording to ballot.

	A Covington (Ky.) girl lent her shawl to
an invalid gentleman, riding in a stage, and
when he handed it back there was a $500
greenback pinned to the shawl.

	The Walker prize of Boston Society of
Natural History was won by Alexander
Agassiz. A deserved compliment to the
studious son of an honored father.

	THE FOUR hundred girls at Vassar College
are obliged to rise at 5 o'clock in the morn-
ing and are not allowed to have any beaux
except in the presence of three old women.

	AMONG THE ninety-six applicants for a
degree in the medical school of the Univer-
sity of Michigan, Miss Emma Call, daugh-
ter of A. A. Call, of Boston, carried off the
palm.

	AFTER THE Michigan Constitutional Com-
mission had vetoed the proposition to let
women hold office, Commissioner Ferry of-
fered, for separate submission to the peo-
ple, a proposition extending the right of suf-
frage to women.

	THE "JEWISH Messenger" exhorts the
Jewesses not to imitate the follies of Chris-
tian women in dressing for church. The
editor thinks in many of the churches wor-
ship is a full-dress affair, consisting in a dis-
play of finery, rather than devotion oft, hear

	THE FIRST daily paper printed in the En-
glish language was published in London, in 
1702, by a woman—one ELIZABETH MALLET.
It was called the Daily Courant, and was
not issued as a Woman's Rights paper, but
"to spare the public at least half the imper-
tinence which the ordinary papers contain."

	MRS. WEBB of Melbourne, has published
a pamphlet, entitled the Woman's Advocate,
in which she recommends that a bill should
be introduced into Parliament for establish-
ing a widow's fund, contributed to by every
husband, that no widow may be left desti-
tute. Also a maiden's fund, to which all
bachelors must contribute, that no maidens
may be left destitute after forty.

	MRS. ELLEN Sheely was among the bid-
ders in St. Louis, lately, for grading five
streets. the "Republican" of that city says:
"All the bids were very judicious and
evinced a knowledge of the business not in-
ferior to the oldest of our contractors. The
bids were very close on the mark, and the
contracts were only lost by a few cents. Mrs.
Sheely, as administratrix of her husband's
estate, completed an extensive piece of grad-
ing, last fall, for which he was contractor, in
the western part of the city, and is there-
fore not without experience in the business."


Geo. F. Robinson has received the medal
awarded to him by Congress in 1871 for sav-
ing the life of Secretary Seward, when at-
tacked by the assassin Payne, on the night
of the 14th of April, 1865. The medal was
made at the United States mint in Philadel-
phia, at a cost of fourteen hundred dollars.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[For the EXPONENT.
			JANUARY.

The fair South Wind, with the magical key
	To unlock Earth's cold fetters of ice,
Came singing of Southland about us to-day
	With tenderly tremulous voice.

She played with old Winter,s long icicled hair,
	With blandishments soothed him to sleep,
Then sprinkled with raindrops his carpet so fair,
	Which melted in rills 'round his feet.

She breathed on the diamonds which studed his crown—
	His rare—lustered jewels of frost
They melted, and trickling his wrinkled cheeks down,
	Plashed into the rills and were lost.

Then she mimicked and flouted the doting old man,
	And dabbled her feet in the rills,
Till bubbling with laughter the giddy brooks ran,
	But weeping were all the white hills.

But the stern old King woke from his slumber at last,
	And quickly perceiving her jeers,
He shook his wet locks, in his terrible wrath,
	And his glance froze the hills' tender tears.

He sent for fresh gems from his treasures untold,
	His rolling cloud-banners unfurled;
And called up the North Wind so cruel and bold
	To hunt the pert Miss through the world.

He came with his legions in frost-armor mailed,
	and with needle-keen darts poised in air—
They shrieked and they shouted and fiercely they wailed
	Like demons escaped from their lair.

The maid, at their coming, in trembling affright,
	Fled back to her innermost cell,
While furious North Wind, with torches alight,
	Obeyed stern old Winter King well.

He searched every dwelling with ruthless intent,
	He shouted through each lonely dell,
He shrieked down ravines 'mid the mountain-tops pent
	And all night his hoarse voice rose and fell.

His power supreme none might dare to deny,
	So, though quaking in terror and dread,
The meek driven snow, with a shivering sigh,
	Once more for a carpet was spread.

At last dawned the morning, stark. lifeless and cold,
	Enshrouded in vestments of white;
And though South Wind was safe 'mong her flowers of
		gold,
	All her rills had been slain in the night.
  Jan. 1874.						LU DALTON.


[Column 1]
		HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
	SOME REASONS why poverty and want ex-
ist; Bones are burned that would make
soaps. Nice handled-knives are thrown into
hot water and spoiled. Dish-cloths are
thrown where mice can destroy them. Tubs
and barrels are left in the sun to dry and 
fall apart. Clothes are left on the line to 
whip to pieces in the wind. Pie-crust is
left to sour, instead of making a few tarts
for tea. Vegetables are thrown away that
would warm for breakfast. Dried fruit is
not taken care of in season, and becomes
wormy. Bits of meat are thrown out that
would make hashed meat or hash. The
cork is left out of the molasses jug, and flies
take posession. Pork spoils for the want of
salt, and beef because the brine wants scald-
ing. Coffee, tea, pepper and spices are left
standing open, and lose their strength. Po-
tatoes in the cellar grow, and the sprouts are
not removed until they are useless. Flour
is sifted in a wasteful manner, and the bake-
pan left with the dough sticking to it. Vin-
egar is drawn in a tin basin, and allowed to
stand til both basin and vinegar are spoiled.
Cold puddings are considered good for noth-
ing, when often they can be steamed for
the next day.—[The Press in General.] Still
other reasons: Men lounge about corners,
grog shops and stores, when they should be
building or repairing poultry houses. Men
hang over patches of unbroken fences, talk-
ing of anything to kill time and leave the
broken panels unmended until stock get
in and destroy “Garden sauce” enough to
supply the family table a month. Wash tubs
are taken to the barn to wash horses legs in,
[Column 2]
﻿and are left to get dry and fall to staves.
Manure is allowed to go to waste when it
should be applied to land. Wagons are run
without greasing until a heavy black smith’s
bill is the consequence. Men take plow
shares to the shop to get them sharpened
and get to playing a "little game" in the
whiskey-mill close by, and forget the plow
until it is too late to use it that day, so they
go on playing one game after another, until
they are too drunk to use it the next day.
Ropes and sacks are thrown down and trod-
den under feet of horses.—Ex.
	A DAMPENED flannel will clean chair
cushions better than a feather duster.
	SCOTCH SNUFF will drive away red ants.
Scatter it on your shelves, and see how
quickly they will go.
	WHEN SILVER wants polish, take a piece
of soft leather and some whiting and rub
hard. The proprietor of one of the oldest es-
tablishments in Philadelphia,says that house-
keepers ruin their silver by washing it in
soap suds, as it makes it look like pewter.
	STOVE LUSTRE when mixed with turpen-
tine and applied in the usual manner, is
blacker, more glossy and more durable than
when mixed with any other liquid. The
turpentine prevents rust, and when put on
an old, rusty stove will make it look as well
as new.
	SALT IS a simple remedy for many things.
It will cure sick headache, make cream
freeze, make the butter come,take inkstains
out of cloth of any kind, kill wens, kill
worms, make the ground cool, so that it is
more congenial to celery, cabbage, etc.; ease
the itching pain caused by irritable skin dis-
ease, hives, itch, etc., produce vomiting or
stop it, as you like; and many other things
too numerous to mention.
	HOW TO COOK CRANBERRIES.—Add one
teacup of cold water to a quart of cranber-
ries, and put them on in a porcelain or other
preserving kettle. After cooking ten min-
utes, add two heaping cups of sugar and
cook about ten minutes longer, stirring con-
stantly from the time they are put on. Pour
out into a bowl, and, when cold, it can be
removed as jelly from a mold. The berries
will seem very dry before the sugar is added,
but if more water is put in they will not
form jelly.
	CHEAP VINEGAR.—Take a quantity of
common Irish potatoes, wash them until
they are thoroughly clean, place them in a
large vessel, and boil them until done. Drain
off carefully the water they were cooked in,
straining it, if necessary, in order to remove
every particle of the potato. Then put this
potato water into a jug or keg, which set
near the stove, or in some place where it
will be kept warm, and add one pound of su-
gar to about two and one-half gallons of the
water, some hop yeast, or a small portion of
whiskey. Let it stand three or four weeks,
and you will have excellent vinegar, at a
cost of six or seven cents per gallon.
	TO REMOVE mold stains from books with-
out injuring the paper, the Scientific Ameri-
can gives the following directions:—1. Wet
with pure, clean water. 2. Soak in a dilute
solution of bleaching powder. 3. Pass
through water made sour to the taste by
muriatic acid. 4. Soak in pure water until
all traces of acid are removed, and dry. It
is not necessary to say that this operation
requires careful manipulation. You may
try, instead, exposing the moistened paper
to the fumes of burning sulphur, which is a
good bleaching agent, and then passing it
through water and drying.


FLOWERS.

	GOOD, THE more communicated more
abundant grows.

	TRUTHS LIE scattered broadcast through
the ages, waiting eyes to see them.

	AFTER ALL, what we make out of life
depends upon how we communicate with
life.

	GRATITUDE is the throwing out of our
hearts in the light of another's kindness.—
H. W. Beecher.

	IT IS a great mistake to set up our stand-
ard of right and excellence, and judge peo-
ple accordingly.

	IT IS always safe to learn, even from our
enemies; seldom safe to venture to instruct,
even our friends.

	THE HISTORY of civilization may be sum-
marized in nine words: the more one knows,
the more one can perform.

	HOW INDESTRUTABLY the good grows
and propagates itself, even among the
weedy entanglements of evil.—Carlyle.

	THREE QUESTIONS to be put to ourselves
before speaking ill of any man:—First, is it
true? Second, is it right? Third, is it nec-
essary?

	THEN, SAID his Lordship, "Well, God
mend all!" "Nay, Donald, we must help
Him to mend it!" said the other.—Rush-
worth.

	THE TRUE glory of a nation is the full
recognition of the rights of its working
people. They are the basis of all its wealth
and prosperity.

	THERE IS no man's mind of so discordant
and jarring a temper, to which a tunable
disposition may not strike a harmony.—Sir
Thomas Browne.

	NO GOOD that the humblest of us has
wrought ever dies. There is one long, un-
erring memory in the universe, out of which
nothing good ever fades.

	CONSCIENCE IS a great ledger book, in
which all our offences are written and reg-
istered, and which time reveals to the sense
and feeling of the offender.—Burton.

	USEFUL INDUSTRY does not so much con-
sist in being continually busy as in doing
promptly those things which are of the first
importance, and will eventually prove most
profitable.

	SUCCESS RIDES on every hour; grapple it
and you may win, but without a grapple it
will never go with you. Work is the wea-
pon of honor, and he who lacks the weapon
will never triumph.

	THE ACTION of the soul is oftener in that
which is felt and left unsaid, than in that
which is said in any conversation. It broods
over every society, and men unconsciously
seek for it in each other.—Emerson.

	THE KING, in reality, is well served;
neither life nor fortune is considered when
his pleasure is the question. If we were as
well disposed toward God, we should be
saints indeed.—Madam de Sevigne.

	THERE IS no doubt of the essential nobil-
ity of that man who pours into his life the
honest vigor of his toil, over those who
compose the feathery foam of fashion that
sweeps along Broadway; and who ignoring
the family history, paint coats-of-arms to
cover up the leather of their grandfathers.
—Chapin.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
					[For the EXPONENT
	ADVANTAGES OF BEING OLD.

	      INCIDENTS OF TRAVEL.

	For once in my life, I was thankful for be-
ing recognized "an elderly lady." When
on a journey, all the way from Utah to Can-
ada East, a distance of 2,500 miles I was
frequently in circumstances, where, had I
been a young woman of an attractive and
fashionable type, I should have been under
great embarrassment. One or two incidents
I will mention, by way of illustration. At
Rome, N.Y. I had to change cars to go
north; all the other lady passengers were
going on to Montreal. The cars halted at
the depot, late in the night; I must wait
for the 6 o'clock train; where should I go?
there was no coach at hand. A gentleman
passenger accosted me with kind solicitude,
saying, "Madam, do you wish to go to a hotel,
where you can remain till the morning
train arrives?" I replied, "I do sir, but I know
not where to go." "With your permission
I will conduct you to a respectable house,
and commit you to the care of the Land-
lord, who will treat you kindly," was his
next remark. I thanked him, and accepted
his offer. I had two shawls and a carpet bag
to carry, (left my trunk,) he would take all
my things, and we started in the dark, for,
I knew not where. I thought he must be a
good man, he was so handsome, and well
dressed. I knew he ought to be, at least.
And so it proved, for he took me to a good
place, and told the Landlord to have me
ready for the morning train. As we were
walking, he inquired from whence I came?
I replied, "from Utah." He did not seem
excited over it so I felt safe in his company.
	Another instance, on my return journey,
I will mention. I had a "lay over ticket,"
for Sandwich, Illinois. I expected to arrive
before dusk, but some failure in the ma-
chinery, hindered the train a full hour. O,
how impatiently I waited for the cars to roll
on! fearing I might be troubled to find the
residence of my friend by night. A young
man stood at the foot of the steps, as I went
down. I inquired if he was a resident there,
and if he knew Mr. Trouslot, a French gen-
tleman, and would he direct me to the
house? He knew him well, and his family;
could give me directions: but added, "As it
is quite a distance, and no coach in readi-
ness, I had better go with you, or you may
lose your way." I was very thankful and
said many civil things. He relieved me of
what I had to carry, and presently knocked
at the door of a nicely finished building, and
I was ushered into the presence of my old
Nauvoo friend and relative; he proffered the
young man so many thanks for his polite-
ness to me, that he expressed himself more
than paid, in having been a witness of the
surprize and joy to which he had contribu-
ted. I spent a happy night and day with
my friends; and the next evening when
they conducted me to the cars, the same
gentleman stood on the platform, helped me
up the steps and put my baggage aboard.
I set his name down in my day book, and
felt thankful that there was a little genuine
politeness in the world. I recollect think-
ing as we were walking together that night,
"I am in a strange place with a stranger to
guide me, but all is well; I am 'an old
woman,' he is a young man, he will practice
no deception upon me."
	These incidents may appear to the reader
only common-place matters, but to me they
seemed worthy of notice; for I had not for-
gotten the fright I once experienced when
travelling by stage in the State of Vermont,
a State renowned for honesty and religion. 

[Column 2]
I was then a young girl and had been very
little from home. The coach stopped at a
hotel in Rutland, for the night; the house
had every appearance of being a respectable
one; and such, I believe, the owner intend-
ed it to be; but he was not a wide awake
man, besides he was a "bachelor"—how
could he keep a respectable house? I was
shown by the waiting maids, to my room;
I bolted my door and laid down to sleep.
Presently I heard noises in the hall, and
knocks on the door of my room. I was at
once convinced that there were evil design-
ing men in that hotel. I was electrified
with fear! I knew not whether I breathed!
But frightened as I was, I summoned cour-
age to say in a sonorous tone, "Leave my
door! I will report this house for a hundred
miles 'round, and warn all honest people to
shun it." The noise went farther off, and I
only heard it faintly; but no sleep was there
for me. I counted the minutes till the bell
rang at 4 o'clock, for me to be ready for the
stage. I dressed myself quickly, and thank-
ful was I to be again on the road, and breath-
ing the pure air. That day I was fortunate
in falling in company with an elderly lady
and her husband. I told my story to her,
she sympathized, and took me under her
care. The following night she engaged a
room with accommodations for us both. I
succeeded in reaching my home in Canada
with no further excitement; and resolved
never to travel again without an immediate
protector. From Burlington, Vt., I wrote
an indignation letter, addressed to that Rut-
land Landlord, denouncing the conduct he
suffered in his house.
	Four years after, having been married,
and settled in the State of New York, I
ventured on another journey, a much longer
one, without my companion; but then, I had
a little child in my arms. I felt that she
was a protection. She was a year and four
months old, had had great pains taken with
her, to render her attractive and make her
feel at home among strangers. An amiable
child wins for a mother respect and polite
attentions. No journey could have been
performed with more ease and pleasure.
And the reception we met in "the old, old
home," left heavenly memories, which came
to my worn spirit in after time, when bat-
tling with life's burdens. Until, after thirty-
eight years had passed away, I went on a
pilgrimage to the same old home, when
trust in God, and multiplied years, were my
safe-guards. I now declare in favor of
children, and old age. Let no one regret
being old. 			L. B. PRATT.
Beaver, Jan. 13th.


HOW TO USE YOUR EXPERIENCE.

	Here is some good counsel from Mr. Spur-
geon, concerning the duty of experience:
When an experienced Christian merely uses
his experience for his own comfort, or as a
standard by which to judge his fellow-Chris-
tians, or make use of it for self-exaltation, as
though he were infinitely superior to the
most zealous young men, such a man mars
his talent, does mischief with it, and makes
himself heavily responsible. I beseech you
who have long walked in the way of godli-
ness to use your experience continually in
your visitation of the sick, in your conver-
sations with the poor, in your meetings with
young beginners, in your dealings with
backsliders; let your paths drop fatness; let
the anointing God has given you fall upon
those who are round about you.


﻿The fashion wears out more apparel than
the man.


FACTS AND FIGURES.

	There are now fifty-two papers published
in Japan.

	Rimmel sold £20,000 worth of perfumes
at the Vienna Fair.

	A New Hampshire farmer has made 18,
000 bushels of potatoes into starch.

	Vermont has 26,983 farmers, three florists,
122 gardeners and nurserymen and seven-
teen stock drovers.

	The Post-Office Department is now more
nearly self-sustaining than any other branch
of the Government.

	Pennsylvania taxes herself $9,000,000 a
year for the education of her children in the
common schools.

	Nine insane patients from San Francisco
have been received at the State Insane Asy-
lum within four days.

	Local taxation in Ireland during the past
year has amounted to nearly £3,000,000, or
about 10s. 9d. per head.

	Switzerland exports $43,000,000 worth of
manufactured silks annually, and the manu-
facture there is rapidly increasing.

	J. J. C. Gillespie, cashier of the freight de-
partment of the Michigan Southern Rail-
road, is a defaulter to the amount of $70,000.

	A lady in Edinburgh wears a mole-skin
mantle manufactured from the coats of near-
ly 600 moles captured on her own property.

	Col. James Howe, nephew of senator Howe
of Wisconsin, gave up a salary of $12,000 a
year to accept the position of U.S. District
Judge.

	Mr. Leslie of Newcastle, Eng., the builder
of the Ville du Havre, has contributed $2,
500 for the relief of the sufferers by the loss
of that vessel.

	Miss Myrna Gurney, of South Abington,
has put six months and 40,000 stitches into
a life-sized worsted work portrait of George
Washington.

	Southern people are trying to raise by sub-
scription the sum of $20,000, which remains
unpaid upon the statue of "Stonewall"
Jackson.

	It is said that the Queen Dowager of
Prussia lost $500,000 by the failure of the
famous banking house of Quistorp at Ber-
lin, and that a prince of the Imperial family
will suffer to a greater extent.

	The greatest herdsman in the world is the
title claimed for Samuel W. Allen of Texas,
who owns 225,000 cattle. He has one ranch
eighty miles long and forty wide between
the Nevada and Colorado rivers.

	It is asserted that the Patrons of Husband-
ry of Iowa have saved the past year, in the
purchase of reapers alone, $350,000, and by
avoiding middle-men in both selling and
buying have saved not less than $1,000,000.

	The amount appropriated by parliamen-
tary grants for elementary education in
England and Wales rose from eight shillings
per scholar in 1863 to twelve shillings in
1873. About five million dollars a year is now
expended on free schools.

	The California Silk Company makes a
very prosperous report. They employ sixty
hands, mostly girls, and manufacture machine
and sewing silk, twist, tram, organzine, fringe
and hair silk.


136			WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS. 
				 AGENTS.
				Salt Lake City.
Mrs. Zina D. Young,		Mrs. Elvira Barney
"	Margt. P. Young,		"      Amanda Kimball
"	Lily Staines,			"       Elizabeth Davis
"	Sarah Smith,			"       Hampton, 16th
"	Mary J.Thomson,				Ward
"	Margaret Steel,		"	Sarah E. Smith,
			Miss Sarah  E. Russell.

			CORRESPONDENTS
Mrs. Laura.Miner, 			Mrs. E.B. Wells
"	A.B. Smith,			Miss Mary E. Cook.
			 	AGENTS, 
		Weber Connty,
 A.M. Frodsham, Ogden, 
		Oneida County, Idaho.
  Mrs. Orissa Allred, St. Charles, 
  " Mary Rich, Paris.
		Rich County
" Ann E. Cook, Swan Creek. 
"  Emily Woodruff, Randolph
		Cache County.
"  M. A. Maughan, Logan, 
"  Jane S. Coleman, Smithfield.
"  H. A Shaw, Hyrum.
		Box Elder County.
"  Harriet Snow, Brigham City.
		Davis County.
" Mary Clark, Farmington;
" Aurelia Rogers, "
" Margaret Randell, Centreville,
" Elizabeth Barlow, Bountiful,
" Susan Grant,  		"
" Sylvia Clark,  		"
		Salt Lake County.
" ------- Higgins, West Jordan,
"  Barbara Moses, agent & cors. Big Cot-
tonwood.
		Tooele County.
Mrs. J. De La Mare, Tooele City.
Mrs. E. Clegg,			"
Mrs. M, A. House, Grantsville.
		Utah County.
" ------Brown, Pleasant Grove,
"  Ann Bringhurst, Springville,
"  — Harrison, 	"
"  Margaret T. Smoot, Provo City,
"  Rebecca Standering, Lehi.
		Juab County
"  Amelia Goldsbrough, Nephi.
"  Ann Pitchforth,
"  Martha J. Coray, agent & cor., Mona,
"  Amy L. Bigler, Nephi.
		Sanpete County.
"  M. A. P. Hyde, agent & cors. Spring
	City,
" Sarah Peterson, Ephraim,
"  Helena Madison, Gunnison.
Mrs. Boel Peterson, Ephraim.
Mrs. Mary Thorpe,
		Millard County.
"  Delilah Oleson, Fillmore,
"  Belinda M. Pratt, 
Miss Mary Callister,
		Beaver County.
Mrs. Ruth Tyler, Beaver.
"  L. B. Pratt, agent & Cors.
		Iron County.
"  Mary Weimer, Parowan,
Miss Josephine Smith,
Mrs. Ellen Lunt, Cedar Ciiy.
"  Mary Ann Lunt, agent & cors.
  Cedar City.
		Kane County.
Mrs. Sophia Parker, Kaharra, 
	Washington County.
" Caroline Jackson, agent & cors.
  St. George,
"  Elizabeth Canfield, Washington.
Mrs. Mary Confield, Hamlin’s  Fort.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	A new toy for boys is a bear about two
feet high, which, upon being wound up,
growls and stands erect on his hind legs in
true bear style. These toys are made in
Munich.
	It is not generally known that among the
many other interesting incidents in the life
of President Andrew Jackson, he was twice
married to the same woman, a former Mrs.
Rachel Robards, daughter of Mrs. Donelson,
the widow of Colonel John Donelson, an em-
igrant from Virginia to Tennessee.
	All great leaders have been inspired with
a great belief. In nine cases out of ten,
failure is born of unfaith. Tennyson sings,
“Faith and unfaith can ne'er be equal pow-
ers." To be a great leader, and so always
master of the situation, one must of neces-
sity have been a great thinker in action.
	IT IS the weakness of some good men to
speak of man as miserable rather than
guilty. Indeed it becomes one who has ob-
tained mercy to pity rather than condemn.
Yet compassion should be mixed with a holy
indignation; for we may indulge a tender-
ness to offenders till we lose sight of the
abomination of sin.
	Happy indeed is the man or woman who
learns the lesson of gratitude for daily bless-
ings; for unbroken sleep, for convenient
food, for the necessity of labor, for the disci-
pline of sorrow, the enjoyment of one's
senses, for pure air and abundant water, and
is not envious or unhappy because a brother
commands something he or she cannot en-
joy.
	Jean Paul Richter says:—“To insure mod-
esty, I would advise the educating of the
sexes together; for two boys will preserve
twelve girls, or two girls twelve boys, inno-
cent, amid winks, jokes, and improprieties,
merely by that instinctive sense which is
the forerunner of matured modesty. But I
will gaurantee nothing in a school where
girls are alone together, and still less where
boy are.”
	A colored philosopher thus unburdened
himself on one of woman's weaknesses:
"Jim, de men don't make such fools of dem-
selves about women as de women do about
men. If dey look at de moon dey see a
man in it; and if dey hear a mouse nibbling,
it’s a man; and dey all look under de bed
last thing at night to find a man. Why I
nebber looks under my bed to find a woman
—does you?”
	An Indian maiden of fourteen years,
named Minnie Emunesky, or "White Fea-
ther," died on Sunday in Boston. She was
the sole survivor of the Cheyenne Indians
massacred some years ago at Sand river by
orders of an officer who was dismissed from
the service for the barbarous act. She was
adopted by a Boston family, and great atten-
tion paid to her education. The United
States authorities settled upon her 640 acres
of land, which now reverts to the nation.
	You should not only be religious and love
religion; you should make religion attrac-
tive, useful, and agreeable to every one
around. The sick will like your religion if
it leads you to tend them, your family will
be attracted to it if they see you more care-
ful in your duties, more patient, more dili-
gent, more gentle in finding fault. If your
husband sees that, as you become more de-
vout, you are also more affectionate to him,
more tenderly submissive, he will be won
to your religion. In a word, let your relig-
ion be as winning to others as possible.


WHEN THE Duke of Edinburgh visited
Birmingham, recently a fervid old lady el-
bowed her way to the front of the crowd, ex-
claiming, “God bless you! How’s your dear
mother?”


MRS. H. K. PAINTER, M. D. 

		     ELECTRIC PHYSICIAN.
	Electricity administered when cases requre.
Office, East side of Second East Street, one and a hal
blocks south of Theatre, Salt Lake City.

MARY H. BARKER M. D.,
Office opposite Old Constitution Building, Main
Street. Office hours––10 a. m. to 3 p. m.

MRS. CARPENTER,
		     Physician and Surgeon,
Office at the Townsend House. Room No. 50.

FURNISH YOUR HOMES.

	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by

			H. DINWOODEY,
	At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street

H. WALLACE.
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase. 

		NEW CLUB RATES.
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the
part of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of
the EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects con-
templated in its publication, by making it truly an
exponent of the views of the women of Utah, sus-
tained by them, read by them, and its columns
enriched with a widely circulated expression of their
thoughts, we offer the following terms to clubs, so as
to prepare for increasing the value and importance of
the paper with the beginning of the next volume,
which a larger subscription list will enable us to do:
10 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club		-	-	-	-	$18 00
15 copies. 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club		-	-	-	-	  26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club and a framed steel engrav-
	ing, 12x16 inches, of President Brigham
	Young, selling price, $2 50	-	-	  34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club, and a superior first proof,
	steel engraving of  President Brigham
	Young, handsomely framed, selling
	price $4		-	-	-	-			  48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time; and addi-
tions can be made after the first list of names has
been sent.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the
risk of the publishers.
	We hope ladies throughout the Territory, especial-
ly the Presidents and Secretaries of Relief Societies'
will endeavor to get up clubs, and that they will con-
stitute themselves agents for the extension of the
circulation of the EXPONENT.


MRS. S. M. PARKER, of the Fourth Dis-
trict of Indiana, is the first lady ever ap-
pointed Collector of Internal Revenue.

	A Beautiful Farewell.—Dr. Todd’s last
message to his church, sent on a Sabbath
evening, contained this passage;—“Tell them
that I have unwavering faith in Christ and
his salvation, and that I am waiting and
hoping for light, from the eternal world.
I want to see that light and I think that I
shall. 'Though I walk through the valley
of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil.'
And so I stand at the gate like a little child,
waiting for it to open and give me a glimpse
of the glory.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
