VOL. 2.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 15, 1873. 	No. 10.


SALUTATION.

DEAR READERS:
	Finding my name listed as a correspond-
ent, my heart fills with friendly greetings
to those whose eyes are to scan, and whose
minds are to weigh the thoughts and sub-
jects that I may, from time to time, place
upon paper. I trust that you will (mentally)
return the proffered friendly grasp, that we
may pleasantly explore together fields of
thought and regions of instruction.
	The pen is a power in the world, for the
right or wrong use of which its wielders are
accountable; God grant that mine may be
actuated to harmonize with the greatest
good to needy mortals in life's darkened
pathway.
	It will be my privilege in this correspon-
dence, to speak thus familiarly, upon relig-
ion, finance, politics, science, or any thing
instructive in which we may, or should take
a mutual interest.
	Hoping that this introductory note may
lead to a lengthy and profitable acquaint-
ance, I subscribe myself, EXPONENT'S cor-
respondent and reader's friend,
				SARAH M. KIMBALL.


[Column 1]
		EDITORIAL NOTES.

	“OLD PROBABILITIES,” Gen. A. J, Myer,
chief of the Government Signal Service Bu-
reau, has gone to Europe. As his wife lately
inherited a round million of dollars by the
death of her mother, it seems he could well
afford to go.
	THE BUSINESS of the Atlantic Cable is re-
ported to have largely increased since the
beginning of the money panic in New York.
The daily receipts are estimated at $27,000.
So it is, one system loses while another
gains, the world over.
	THE INHABITANTS of Memphis, Tenn.,
have been so stricken with an epidemic that
calls for aid for that city have been neces-
sarily made. Accounts of their sufferings
have been given in the daily papers which
are of a heart-sickening character.
	ANNA DICKENSON is said to have walked
with Prof. Hayden and party to the summit
of Long’s Peak, in Denver, Colorado, recent-
ly, making the ascent in three hours and
ten minutes. She got her name up for once,
if she did have to walk and carry it herself.
	AN AUTHOR in the dramatic line has said,
“There’s no such word as fail;" but the
poor, lone man, who had proposed marriage
to sixty different girls, and got the mitten
every time, used to say he knew there was.
However, he is married at last; so, perhaps,
there isn’t after all.
	CHARLES SPRAGUE, the venerable Boston
poet, author of “The Family Meeting,” and
other beautiful specimens of poetic genius,
welcomed his eighty-third birthday on the
sixteenth of September. He has the best
wishes of thousands for another seventeen
years, which will finish his one hundred.
	THE GREATEST difficulties with which
most young people are perplexed, when
starting out in life, are that they want to be
considered wise without the trouble of learn-
ing wisdom, good without having proved
[Column 2]
themselves so; and would like to become
suddenly rich without waiting to earn riches.
	IT IS proposed in Boston to organize a
“Workingwoman’s Mutual Benefit Associa-
tion,” the object of which will be the pro-
viding of funds for the aid of any member
in extreme need, and in case of death, to
provide a respectable burial. The proposi-
tion is a worthy one and deserves support.
	IN PRUSSIA, a Roman Catholic priest re-
cently preached that marriage among the
Protestants was nothing more than concu-
binage, for which he was sent to prison. He
should have come to America if he wanted
to berate the social systems of other denom-
inations than his own, without having any
attention paid to it.
	A NEW York man, who has been an in-
veterate smoker for years, was lately cured
of the habit, suddenly and effectually, by
knocking the embers from his cigar into a
keg of blasting powder. Others, who have
acquired the habit, and may be unable to
overcome it of themselves, might learn from
this an infallible remedy.
	THE AUTHORITIES of St. Louis are striv-
ing to convince the American public that
they have discovered the panacea for all the
evils growing out of prostitution, and that
their remedy for it should be universally
adopted. Let them first cleanse and make
pure their own city, and others will be ready
to learn of them without being urged to do
so. 
	A STRANGE and unnatural accident is re-
ported to have happened a young lady in
one of the Eastern cities; her hair being
caught and wound up in some machinery,
the entire scalp was torn off, from the eyes
to the back of the neck. And this was done
instantaneously, causing neither bleeding
nor suffering. She will have a wonderful
story to relate to her grandchildren in years
to come.
	A YOUNG lady wishes to know if direct
danger is not to be apprehended from a
notable bachelor’s having become a member
of the “High Council;” whether his “coun-
sel” to young men will not likely be of a
disparaging nature in relation to hymenial
matters. We think not. Distasteful epithets
concerning such things, are more liable to
originate with disappointed husbands than
with old bachelors.
	A TERRIBLE example has been made of
Captain Jack and three of his Modoc asso-
ciates, Schonchin, Boston Charley, and
Black Jim. They were hanged at Fort Kla-
math on the morning of the third inst., in
the presence of more than five hundred Kla-
math Indians, their own wives and children
being among the witnesses! Such are the
decrees of justice on Indian murderers.
	MISS RYE, a lady of superior abilities, is
spending her time and means in emigrating
poor working women, who are out of em-
ployment, from England to America, and se-
curing homes and work for them. She late-
ly sailed from Liverpool, having fifty-five of
those women in charge, for whom she has
homes and employment secured. Her labors
are laudable, and her name and benefactions
will be remembered throughout the genera-
tions of those who are receiving blessings
through her womanly exertions.
[Column 3]
	A STRANGE story is told of a death which
recently occurred in India. A fisherman put
the head of a fish in his mouth to bite it, as
it had proved troublesome in the matter of
wriggling. The fish wriggled into his mouth
and down into his throat, where it firmly
stuck. And not until the unfortunate fisher-
man had been taken to the hospital was the
fish removed in small pieces, directly after
which the man died. This is another proof
of the old truism, that it is best to go through
life with your mouth shut and your eyes
open; and it also shows that cruelty is some-
times wondrously rewarded.
	A GENTLEMAN of this city,  of refined
taste and superior understanding, says that
the worth of woman is by no means appre-
ciated by the great masses. In his office
where crowds of people often gather, he says,
it could scarcely be believed what an influ-
ence the presence of one lady will exert over
a throng of men. It seems to lead them from
their natural rough, careless manners, and
awaken softened, delicate sentiments,which,
without the presence of the gentle, supreme
power she exercises over them, would nev-
er appear. Man, he thinks, is nothing of
worth without woman. We propose a vote
of thanks to the gallant gentleman for his
liberal opinions, so freely offered.
	THAT EXTRAVAGANCE among Americans
is no late thing, may be realized by those
who read the following clipping: “In one
of the New York hotels is a Swiss waiter,
who once saw better days and kept a restaur-
ant in London. A guest lately happened to
hear him arguing with an American com-
rade on the relative merits of democracy in
Switzerland and in the United States. The
Helvetian went in for the superiority of his
own country, and insisted that there were
blots upon the fame of the American Revo-
lution which did not sully the fair name of
Switzerland. The guest, becoming curious,
intruded so far into the controversy as to ask
for some instance of this, whereupon the
Switzer assured him, in all sober earnest-
ness, that the spilling of the tea in Boston
harbor was a wilful waste of good substance,
whereof no Swiss never could have been
guilty.”
	THE “RURAL New Yorker” says: “It has
often been noticed that a farm which has
been given up in disgust by its owner, and
sold for a trifle on account of the light soil
composing it, after passing into the hands
of a man who has learned to use brain work
as well as manual labor in his calling, has,
in the course of two or three years, entirely
changed in appearance, both with respect
to the soil itself and the crops borne on it.”
The same fact is also noticeable in matters
of graver importance. Children who have
been thought to possess very inferior minds,
have, under favorable changes of guardian-
ship and influences, brightened up and
astonished former acquaintances by display-
ing real intelligence, and, in many instances,
superior genius. These different results are
occasioned by the opposites in treatment.
some tutors, like some farmers, expect to
gather largely where ingredients are already
insufficient, instead of affording abundant
supplies of material which is calculated to
enrich rather than impoverish the soil of
the earth or the mind of a child.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


For the EXPONENT.	
     A REFORMED HUSBAND.

		TO HIS WIFE.

Come darling put your sewing by,
	And chat with me awhile.
I want to hear the glad, free tone,
	And see the old sweet smile:
The tone in which you spoke to me,
	The smile you used to wear
When we were courting on the Ranch,
	When love was young and fair.
If then we loved each other well,
	As little as we knew
Of all the wrangling, jangling things
	That throng life's pathway through—
If then we loved and trusted well,
	Just starting on our way
When near a dozen years have passed,
	How should it be to-day?
We never got discouraged then,
	And harsh words never came;
But since that time we neither one
	Have always been the same:
We never got too tired then,
	To walk and take delight,
After a hard day's work was done—
	How would it seem to-night?
Let's be again the lovers true
	We were before we wed;
Nor think so much of "getting on,"
	So we have clothes and bread:
For supper and for breakfast too,
	Hot meals let us discard;
I'd rather eat but once a day
	Than have you work so hard.
I think that if we courted still
	Just as we used to do
Our children would be healthier,
	And better natured too.
Our home would be as cheery bright,
	And we should be again
As happy in each others love,
	And blest as we were then.
Now when the men have left their work,
	And quit the field and shop,
And I come in to read or rest,
	It's time for you to stop;
So let's put this machine aside,
	And cease its tedious hum:
The moon is bright, the air is mild—
	Then come, my darling, come.
								LULU.


AN ADDRESS.
To the Richmond Retrenchment Association.

	How natural to human beings, are thoughts
of self, how prone we are to care for our own
comforts heedless of the welfare of others.
If fortune smiles on us we forget that there
are those who are less fortunate, or who may
need our assistance. Our own enjoyment is
all the world to us; and yet there is not hap-
piness in all this self provision. Much calls
for more, and contentment does not linger
in the heart of averice. But courted or al-
lowed to remain, it takes possession of us
body and soul. And thus we go on grasping
for all within reach, often, perhaps, for that
which would do us no good, determined to
possess it even if it would be an incumbrance
to us, rather than see it enjoyed by another.
If a choice bit of lace or velvet or a nice
dress pattern is brought to some one of a
family, how apt is the young lady to say,
"give it to me. I need it and it suits me
better than my sister." And should
the coveted prize be gained, the thought
never enters her mind that doubtless some
of the rest wished for it quite as much as
herself only they were too good and self-
denying to take it from her. How admira-
ble seems generosity when we notice it in
our friends, especially if a favor has been
done us. But do we ever think to be gen-
erous in return?
	It is an easy matter to persuade ourselves
that people do very little for our benefit,
and to indulge the thought "Why should
we trouble to accomodate them?" Some-
times we pity some one and tell how much


they are in need of help, and if it were not
for some trifling reason we could render as-
sistance, trying to excuse ourselves for neg-
lect of duty. Thus our actitons are a great
deal like the letter p; first in pity but last in
help.
	We are all children of the same wise Pa-
rent, and is it not the duty of every individ-
ual to assist others? It is the only true way
to gain friends or happiness.
	We are not, or should not be, living
merely to gratify our selfish whims, but to
spread peace and love wherever we are. We
should never forget to do this, and especially
to comfort the sick and weary, that they, at
least, may testify that God has not created
us in vain. If we banish all selfish and evil
thoughts from heart and mind, and seek to
promote the prosperity of our brothers and
sisters on earth, God will reward us in hea-
ven.					MARY STUART.	
	RICHMOND, Sept. 27th 1874.


﻿OUR SCIENCE DEPARTMEMT. 
			
				For the EXPONENT  
	EXTINCTION OF RACES.
	Among the more recent results of scien-
tific investigation, are the unmistakable evi-
dences of the existence of men upon this
Continent from the most remote ages, and
of the presence of large settled popula-
tions in distant and also in comparatively
recent times. They were the "occupants of
the then fertile but now arid plains of the
Colorado;" of "islands that existed along
the Pacifi coast," long before the elevation
of the coast itself by which the sea was
shut out and California made habitable;
when the valleys of the Sacramento and
San Joaquin were drained of the waters of
the ocean, large populations came in and
"took possession of the land, leaving their
remains with those of animals long since ex-
tinct." Scientific research proves, in fact,
that "the man of the Florida coral period
existed long anterior to the Pharoahs, prob-
ably long before the land they ruled over
existed." The question asked cannot be
answered so as to satisfy the requirements
of science: "Where did the ancient races
of America come from; and where are they
gone?" With the discoveries made, comes
the unwelcome inference that in the exter-
mination of these primal races there is a
foreshadowing of the ultimate extinction of
the white races now in possession of the
land. In an essay, read recently before the
National Teacher's Association, it was shown
that "no race of human kind has yet ob-
tained a permanent foothold upon this Con-
tinent;" and the melancholy concessions
were that "unless some steps were taken to
avert the evil," we, the proud, enduring,
hitherto permanent occupants of this planet
are doomed, as a race, to an "untimely ex-
terminateion."
	It will be interesting to note the methods
that will be resorted to to avert this. Per-
haps it will be well to ascertain the causes
that gave rise to the extermination of the
races that once inhabited this Continent.
It may be possible that other than "climactic
influences" were operating then, by a "law"
that is not yet recognized. In the mean
time, we may read that which is a key to
these perturbations which exist in bosoms
that dread conditions that are inevitable:
"Wherefore I will consecrate this land (Amer-
ica) unto thy seed and they who shall be
numbered among thy seed, forever, for the
land of their inheritance. For, it is a choice
land, saith God unto me, above all other
lands; wherefore I will have all men that


dwell thereon, that they shall worship me,
saith God!"—Book of Mormon.
	FAT IN FORAGE PLANTS.—Notice is tak-
en by scientific journals of the discoveries
of the German chemist, Konig, who found
that by treatment with strong alcohol, the
fat of grass, clover and hay could be sepa-
rated into two parts—one a solid waxy sub-
stance, the other a fluid fat, soluble in alco-
hol. By other chemists it has also been es-
tablished that even as much as ten per cent
of the dry weight of cereals is fat and wax:
early meadow grass, six and a half per cent
of fat. This is worthy of notice for exposure
to atmospheric change such as occer when
fodder is left uncovered, would cause de-
composition of these fatty matters and thus
make them worthless as food.


For the EXPONENT.
A WOUNDED SPIRIT WHO CAN BEAR.
	
	In reflecting upon the wrongs which
woman is subjected to in the world, and the
evils now existing in consequence of her not
being allowed the choice of a husband in
aocordance with her affections, I have
thought, how appropriate for the considera-
tion of man in these days is the sweet ap-
peal of the poetess, Mrs Felitia D. Hemans:
		"Oh! cast thou not
		Affection from thee in this bitter world,
		Hold to thy heart that only treasure fast;
		Watch, guard it, suffer not a breath to dim
		That bright gem purity."
							EXCELEITE.


FOR THE EXPONENT.
BEWARE OF ACCUSING CHILDREN

	Under this heading perhaps a few words
may not be deemed inappropriate. Years 
and experience have given the writer op-
portunity to observe the influence prevail-
ing over children, that more or less help to 
mold their characters for the future iuflu- 
ence very much to be deprececated and most
heartily to be condemned; as often the re-
sults are lamentable.
	Living in a fsst age comparatively, very 
little consideration, is given to these things,
with all the boasted knowedgc of modern 
times. Children are expected to know
more, which, in fact, they do at a very ten-
der age, than in former days; children were 
children then, until really old enough to 
have some strength of mind and under- 
standing; parents were more cautious, in
respect to conversation in their hearing,
which now seems almost totally done away 
with. Careless habits have gained ground;
for as the world stands, no great or good 
things are advanced without more or less
evil to bring up the rear; which often proves 
almost an overbalance of power, counter-
acting, in a great degree, the good attained.
Thus it is only by the most strenuous efforts
and the exercise of exceeding watchfulness
and care, on the part of those engaged in
God's vineyard—to uproot and drive forth
the little evils, which like the moth, silent- 
ly, ceaslessly and most certainly work sor-
row and woe- that anything can be done.
Among the minor evils, one that carries 
great sway with the generality of people
and families, is that hasty accusation:
Children are often corrected in anger and
haste; more often than in calmness, or with
due deliberation. Because a certain piece 
of mischief is done, some child did it;
and perhaps the child, perfectly innocent of
the mischief said to be his or her doing, is
punished severely for it no matter how 
much he or she may say and protest


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[First column]
		HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
	CUCUMBER PICKLES.—The small, long
kind are the best for pickling, and those but
half-grown are nicer than the full-grown.
Let them be freshly gathered; pull off the
blossoms, but do not rub them; pour over
them a strong brine, boiling hot; cover close,
and let them stand all night. The next day
put your hand in the jar or tub and stir
gently, to remove all sand, drain on a sieve,
and then dry in a cloth. Make a pickle
with the best cider vinegar, adding spice in
the following proportions: To each quart of
vinegar put half an ounce of whole black
pepper, the same of ginger and allspice, and
one ounce of mustard seed. If the flavor is
agreeable add four shalots, and two cloves
of garlic, to a gallon of vinegar. When this
pickle boils up, throw in the cucumbers, and
make them boil quickly as possible three or 
four minutes. Put them in the jar with the
boiled vinegar, and cover closely. When
cold, put in a sprig of dill, the seed down-
ward, if you like it. Made in this way,
they will be tender, crisp and green. If the
color is not quite clear enough, pour off the
vinegar the next day; boil up, and pour
over the cucumbers; cover, perfectly tight.
	MELON PRESERVES.—To make an excel-
lent preserve from unripe melons, the green
part of watermelons and citrons, in imitation 
of preserved citron, boil in alum water—a
tablespoonful to about two gallons—pare, cut
in pieces, and lay in water for one or two
days, to take out the alum taste. The pie-
ces should not be quite soft, but like sweet
cucumber pickle. Drain well, make a sirup
of sugar—a pound to each pound of melon—
a pretty strong flavoring of ginger, as hot as
may be liked, remembering that when boil-
ed it will taste hotter, a little mace, and
some lemon peel or essence of lemon to taste.
Boil the pieces in this till clear. Unripe
melons are soaked for some days in brine,
cut up and freshened in cold water before
boiling in alum. This preserve requires-
watching, being very apt to mold.—"House
hold."
	TO CHECK diarrhea it is asserted that a
tea made with baked nutmegs is excellent.
	COUGH SIRUP.—Two ozs. licorice root, 1/2
pound raisins, 2 tablespoonfuls flaxseed
(ground), and liverwort, the more the bet-
ter; boil in two gallons rain or river water,
until the strength is out; then strain and
boil down to a quart; now add 1/2 pound white
sugar, when the sugar is dissolved take off,
and when cool add 1/2 pint good cider vine-
gar. The licorice root should be split up
finely, and the raisins divided. This makes
a sirup very pleasant to take, having no dis-
agreeable taste about it. It will cure coughs,
colds, soreness of the lungs, croup, and it is
said to cure consumption in its first stages.
	TO CLEAN MARBLE.—Take two parts of
common soda, one part of finely powdered
chalk; sift it through a fine sieve, and mix
with water; rub it well all over the marble
and the stains will disappear; then rub the
marble over with soap and water. It will be
as clean as new.
	BAKED TOMATOES make a choice dish.
Select those of good size and ripe, wash, and
bake unseasoned on a pie-dish in a hot oven
for forty minutes, or until quite tender.
They are best to bake on the bottom
and to reduce the juice. If there is danger
of drying up the bottom before the fruit is
done, add water or more tomato juice. A
little of the thick juice should be served
with each tomato. These harmonize nicely
with beans, for a dinner side dish. If desir-

[Scond column]
ed, the skins can be removed before they
are sent to the table. These baked tomatoes
are nice to dry, pouring the juice over them
as the drying proceeds. If put away in a 
close jar, these can be used to good advan-
tage for soups when it is not desirable to
open a can; or they may be gently soaked in
hot water and used as baking tomatoes. For
the latter purpose, however, it is better to
can them as soon as baked. Have an abun-
dance of juice, pour some of it into the can,
fill up with the hot tomatoes, then boil the
can a little while to expel the air, and seal
up as you do other fruit.
	HOW TO BLEACH COTTON CLOTH.—It may
sometimes become necessary or convenient
to bleach a piece of cotton cloth, although as
a general thing it is better to obtain white
cloth already bleached. Home-bleaching,
moreover, is apt to injure the fabric more
than the process in use at the factories, es-
pecially when manipulated, as it always is
there, by skilled hands. However, cloth
may be bleached as follows: To five pounds
of cloth take twelve ounces of chloride of
lime. Dissolve the lime in a small quantity
of boiling water; when cold, strain it into a
sufficient quantity of water to cover the
cloth. This must first be boiled fifteen min-
utes in strong soapsuds and rinsed well in
clear water. Then put it in the lime-water
from ten to twenty minutes, airing it well
by lifting up and down. Rinse thoroughly
in warm or cold water.—"Rural New York-
er."


﻿GOOD TEMPER IN SCHOOL.
	When things go wrong in the school room
through the misbehavior of scholars, the
very worst possible course to be pursued by
a teacher is to lose temper. If good man-
agement and rule cannot be kept with a fair
amount of power to interest, and a compe-
tent knowledge of what is being taught, you
may almost regard it as total unfitness for
the position. Some one else with more grace
and more good sense will do well to take the
place. Bad temper is of itself a sufficient
disqualification in any teacher. But patient,
good-tempered kindness will win love, break
down prejudice, and take possession of hu-
man hearts.


SELFISHNESS.

	Selfishness, in my opinion, is one of the
greatest causes of all evil. If all were wil-
ling to sacrifice their own private feelings
for the happiness and welfare of others, what
love and good feelings there would be,
where now exists animosity and discontent.
“Sacrifice brings forth the blessings of Heav-
en,” is verily true. If we are not willing to
bear crosses and make sacrifices, how shall
we expect to receive blessings?
	To my mind, one of the noblest, most
beautiful things in life, is a self-sacrificing
spirit. To see sisters, or wives, willing to
give way in favor of each other, is heavenly.
I think that persons possessed of such spir-
its are so near perfection, it would be quite
impossible to help loving them. But oh!
how few there are possessed of that heaven-
born influence, comparatively speaking.
When we can learn to forget self in seeking
to promote the happiness of others, we shall
be on the high road to perfect peace. Bur
now we are so apt to have self first in out
minds. If we were to show to others, that
wo had their interest at heart, we would
draw their affections in spite of themselves.
If we could have something like the same
feeling for our brother or sister that a moth-
er has for her child, I think it would be well
with us. There is no sacrifice too great for a


mother to make. Our blessed Saviour died
for all. He had no favorite, we were all the
same to Him. What an example of love and
self-sacrifice was this! And He says, “If ye
love me, keep my commandments; this is
my commandment. that ye love one another
as I have loved you. Greater love hath no
man thant his, that a man lay down his life
for his friends. By this shall all men know
that ye are my disciples,if ye have love one
toward another.”
	How many of us, do you suppose, if called
upon, would be willing to lay down life for
a friend? I fear but very few. But let us
cultivate this self-sacrificing spirit and over-
come selfishness, that we may be loved of
the Father and ever have His spirit to be
with us to lead us into all truth.
						  M.A.F.


﻿PEN AND SCISSORS.

	LIBERALITY consists less in giving pro-
fusely than in giving judiciously.
	ALL men would be masters of each other,
and no man is lord of himself.
	WITHOUT earnest convictions no great or
sound literature is conceivable.
	TAKE away ambition and vanity and where
will be your heroes and patriots?
	ONE hundred old ladies, from the Graham
Institute and Church Charity Foundation,
of Brooklyn, went on a free excursion to
Canarsie the other day, under the auspices
of the Fresh Air Committee.
	EVERY good man is not born with the gift
of speech. There are deep-minded, devout
and earnest Christians who can do every-
thing else better than to address a mixed
assembly. They are constitutionally timid
and slow-tongued; there is pure good within
them, but they cannot coin it readily into
current words.
	NO GIRL should be indifferent to her per-
sonal appearance. God meant woman to be
attractive, and it is one of her duties to car-
ry out this design. But that dress is to be all
is more than we can believe. Just because
we love to see girls look well, as well as to
live to some purpose, we would urge them
on such a course of reading and study as
will confer qualities which no modiste can
supply.
	THERE are a thousand reasons why cheer-
fulness and good humor are preferable to
peevishness and discontent. A few of them
are as follows: The former qualities make
life longer, and more enjoyable while it lasts;
they enable their possessor to find more good
in the world, and to realize a better appre-
ciation of it all; to discriminate more readily
and clearly between right and wrong; to
offer compassion instead of contempt, char-
ity rather than reproach, love instead of hate.
	A WELL-KNOWN author once wrote a pretty
essay on the power of education to beautify,
that it absolutely chiseled the features; that
he had seen many a clumsy nose and pair of
thick lips so modified by thought awakened
and active sentiment, as to be unrecogniz-
able. And he put it on that ground that we
so often see people, homely and unattractive
in youth, bloom in middle life into a soft-
ened Indian Summer of good looks and
mellow tones.


A LITTLE girl three years old, in Provi-
dence, R. I., lately fell from one of the  up-
per windows of a two-story house, striking
head first on some stone steps beneath. She
was uninjured. “Providence” has truly
wonderful ways.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TRUE INDEPENDENCE.

	At the late fall conference, one of the elders,
while instructing the people, said, in substance,
that the fact that his own family, or members
of the families of other prominent men in the
church, were extravagant, was no excuse for
other people's being the same. The truth of this
statement is obvious.
	Because wives and daughters of the ser-
vants of God may, and do, practically, refuse to
receive the teachings of those having divine
authority to teach, is no reason why others
should follow their foolish examples. Yet it is
astonishing that so many persons evince so lit-
tle individuality in regard to these things.
"Why," says one lady, "do such and such ones,
having so good and wise a father, dress as they
do, if there is evil in it? At any rate, it is no
worse for me to do so than it is for them, and so
long as they are permitted to dress fashionably,
I intend to make as good an appearance as they
can." What a want of independent feeling is
here manifested! Our Saviour might as consis-
tently have rebelled against His Father because
Satan did so.
	Now, that which is required of the daughters
of Zion in regard to their dress, is, simply, that
they cultivate good taste and judgment. It is
the height of absurdity for one person to pur-
chase an article of clothing because some one
else has something the same, or that cost as
much. Refined taste will enable any lady


to avoid such a mistake. And to discriminate
nicely between what is becoming to her, and
that which is not. No lady who has learned
this lesson well, can ever imagine that disfig-
urement of her person, in any way, will add to
her comeliness, no matter who she is or what
her position in life. Nor will a woman of good
judgment spend more on apparel than is requi-
site for comfort and neatness, however extrava-
gant her neighbors may be.
	The attempt to follow every new fashion that
is introduced, without being able to judge un-
derstandingly whether it is an improvement on
the old or otherwise, shows a great lack of in-
telligent, womanly freedom and self-reliance;
and betrays a weakness of mind from which
the votary herself would shrink in disgust did
it appear in any other form than that of the
love for dress and idle display.
	But to adorn the person tastefully and con-
veniently, without scrupulously bowing to the
whims of others, portrays the exercise of care-
ful thought, and that true independence of
character which ennobles and dignifies woman
in the eyes of all sensible beholders.
	If the women of the Latter-day Saints will
learn and practice wisdom, by and by the posi-
tion of a few prominent ones, whose present
course seems to lead away the hearts of many
after the vain things of earth, will be changed
They will see the folly of their ways, and seek
to amend them, or they will be without influ-
ence in the midst of the people.


THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT
		L. Greene Richards, Editor. 	

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms: 
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten copies 
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight 
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3. 
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street, 
Salt Lake City. 
	Miss Cornelia H. Horne, Business Manager. Office hours 
from 9 to 12 a.m., and from 2 to 5 p.m., on Mondays and Fridays. 
	Address all business communications to 
				Publishers Woman's Exponent,
						Salt Lake City, Utah. 

		SALT LAKE CITY, OCT. 15, 1873.


SPLINTERS.

	New Orleans has a swimming school for
ladies.	......$20,000 is said to have been
made by the "Graphic" balloon enterprise.
......The Grand Vizier of the Shah has been
sent to prison.	    ......Barnum stops at Sara-
toga while his great show goes round.
......William Penn's house in Philadelphia
has been made into a beer saloon.	......Pres-
ident Grant's Secretary, Gen. Babcock, and
wife, have gone to Europe.	......Vienna
has sixty splendid orchestras, all full.
......Gen. McClellan's summer residence is
at Maywood, N. J.	......Chestnut timber,
five hundred years old, in Westminister
Abbey, is still sound.	......Within three
weeks, four persons have dropped dead on
one street in Atlanta, Georgia.	......The
British navy has lately had three new war
vessels added, and there are twenty-five
others being built.	......The frequency of
criminals committing suicide in their cells,
is attracting attention in Switzerland.
......In one day, duties amounting to $15,000
were collected on Canadian wool at St. Al-
bans, Vt.	     ......Eighty-six women in Mich-
igan, have entered the University this
term. 	......Quincy, Ill., has set its organ
grinders to sweeping streets. 	......Great
destruction has been made among the grape
crops of Portugal this season by vine dis-
ease. 	......A celebrated brigand in Southern
Italy, known as Manzi, has lately been cap-
tured and his band extirpated.		......Mad-
am Nilsson and her husband, Sig. Salvini,
were lately visiting in New York.	......The 
Pope has recovered from his recent indispo-
sition.	......Joaquin Miller has been passing
a season with Minister Gladstone in Wales.
......A widower in Michigan, who has forty-
eight children, recently married his fourth
wife....... 	A New York writer gives an arti-
cle on "Intelligent Mules," and it is believed
if he can prove there are such, that women
will no longer 	denied the ballot. 	......A
new cave has been discovered near "The
Cave of the Winds," at Niagara Falls, which
promises to be one of the wonders of Amer-
ica.


TURNED UP NOSES.

	Mrs. A. turns up her nose at something
Mrs B. does or has done, and Mrs. B. lives
to see the day when she turns up her nose
at the same conduct in Mrs. A., forgetting
the record of her own history.
	Thus is the air continually more or less
filled with inconsistent turned-up noses,
when really there is no occasion for one to
think himself or herself better than another


FAILINGS IN MEN AND WOMEN.

	Women are at a decided disadvantage in
regard to shortcomings. But naturally no
better than men, they are expected to be
angels. If by any chance there is occasion-
ally found a woman whose wings have been
soiled by the sordid or other evil influences
so rife in this world of men, she is instantly
and forever branded.
	Faults which are excused in men become
crimes when committed by women, for
which the supreme court of society finds
them guilty and deserving of banishment
for life.
	To crave the license which society gives
to men will not mend matters at all, but if
women would look with a little more com-
plaisancy upon all grades of her own sex, the
yoke of injustice would not wound quite so
deep or frequently as now.


TO ERR IS HUMAN.

	Truth reveals that mortals are all erring,
and one time or another every one is guilty
of that which memory would rather blot
from the record.
	It sounds well for people to aver in lofty
style that they never did anything of which
to be ashamed. There is not, and probably
never was, a person so perfect that to a great-
er or less degree he or she has never done
wrong, wilfully or ignorantly. In either case
a blush of shame is but a slight token that
the spirit has realized higher and better
things, and has risen above the possibility
of committing the same error again.


NOTICE.

	The EXPONENT Committee of Consultation
is requested to meet at the residence of Presi-
dent George A. Smith, on Tuesday, the 21st
inst., at 2 o'clock, p. m. A full attendance is
respectfully solicited.
				   ELIZA R. SNOW, Pres.
	MINNIE HORNE, Sec.


PROGRESSIVE.

	A short time ago we clipped and published a
call for a woman's congress, which appeared in
the "Woman's Journal." In a late number of
the same paper is given a notice specifying the
time set for the meeting of those women whose
names had been forwarded in answer to the call
which is the 14th, 15th, 16th and 17th of the
present month. The list of names appended is
a long one, and it may be anticipated that good
results will follow this meeting of earnest re-
formers.


SOMETHING NEW WANTED.

	The eye wearies of gazing for a length of time
upon the same objects, however beautiful they
may appear at first view; and the most pleasing
sounds become tedious when long listened to.
Thus the human mind is forever reaching forth
for some new motive, some stimulus to urge
the senses to new action and new acquirements.
Old facts that have long been known, become
monotonous if often repeated, and a kind of
thirsting after something more is likely to be
felt. The child could never progress in learning
if kept always at its a. b. c. lessons and never
allowed to turn over the leaf.
	The Latter-day Saints want new ideas placed
before them continually. This is an age of rapid
progression, and the Saints want to keep up
with the rest of the world. But how few among
them seem to realize the necessity of learning
properly, thoroughly understanding and wisely
practicing the former lessons which have been
for years placed before them for their own ben-
efit. A wise teacher does not often give lessons
for in advance of what his pupils evince will-


ingness and ability to comprehend. And how-
ever immaterial some of the principles of the
Gospel of Christ may appear to many who have
taken upon them His name, and covenanted to
keep His commandments, they cannot advance
as the true hearted ever desire to do, until they
have learned to put into daily practice every
principle which has been revealed to them by
the spirit of revelation from God. Their teach-
ers become weary of haranguing the old lessons
year after year, and would rejoice to see all the
world uniting to make good use of what has
long been taught, and preparing for more ad-
vanced additions to God's law.
	But what does it profit the Lord to hand out
new laws to people who are unprepared for
them? When He revealed the law of Celestial
marriage to President Joseph Smith, how many
were prepared to accept it? How many, to-day,
are really impressed with the importance of
sustaining Co-operation, of paying an honest
Tithing, or of observing faithfully the Word of
Wisdom? Who among the Latter-day Saints
are prepared for new lessons, new laws and or-
dinaces, should the Lord see fit to extend them?
Surely not those who have ceased to attend
Sabbath meetings because the same old doc-
trines are preached from the stand, and they
want to hear something new.


HOLD STILL.

	In a private communication from Beaver,
mention is made of the cowardly acts of some
men in seeking to wrest from the rightful own-
ers portions of land in that locality. Our cor-
respondent says: "It can only be styled at-
tempted mobocracy when individuals from
other parts of the country come here, no doubt
scapegraces, escaped from justice for theft or
something worse, and claim the land which
our people have subdued and tilled for years.
Some of which is almost the entire dependence
of poor men, and widows and orphans." If pro-
fanity wasn't against the principles of the EX-
PONENT, we might think of something horribly
bad in contemplating this representation.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿BATHING.

	The “Journal of Health” says that the cause
of weakness after bathing is bathing at the
wrong time; too great fatigue at the time of
bathing; too much bathing; too long continued
bathing. When one is made weak by a bath,
he should cease to take that bath. There is a
great deal too much bathing carried on. The
use of water in this country has come to be with
people whose attention has been called thereto
only less dangerous than the use of medicine.
God has not made the human body to be im-
mersed in water all the time. If persons would
live rightly, they would need to bathe but very
little; and one of the best ways of bathing we
have ever found with feeble patients, is to have
them drink of spring water—always drunk,
however, in very small quantities at a time—
but drunk very frequently, and so bathe their
skins from the inside. This is one kind of
bathing that is not dangerous if rightly admin-
istered. The best time for taking a bath is at
that period of the day when the sun is in its
progress to the highest point in the heavens.
Along the forenoon is the best time to bathe,
other things being equal.
	Some, if not all of the above statements, may
be readily proven to be correct. Directly before
or immediately after eating is one of the wrong
times for bathing. An hour at least should in-
tervene between the times of eating a meal and
taking a bath.


[Column 1]
			HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE PARQUETTE in the Salt Lake Theatre is
now seated with iron chairs.
	PRESIDENT BRIGHAM Young, with some of
his counselors, held a two days’ meeting at
Provo City, on the 11th and 12th insts.
	AMERICAN FORK is reported by the Sunday
School Superintendent to take the lead in Utah
county, in the Sabbath School library depart-
ment.
	THE DESERET Teachers’ Association lately
held in this city a series of meetings, at which

[Column 2]
much valuable information, and many excel-
lent ideas, were given, of a nature calculated to
prove of great worth to those teachers who at-
tended.
	THE MUSIC and singing of the choir, during
Conference, deserves especial notice, and Pro-
fessor Careless merits all the compliments he
will ever get. Names may sometimes be sug-
gestive of character and habits, but when his is
considered in connection with the choice selec-
tion of pieces for that occasion, it sounds rather
inappropriate.
	IT IS thought that if ties can be procured by
the last of the present month, the Utah South-
ern railroad will have reached Provo city. Rail-
road enterprises are progressing finely in the
Territory, and by another fall the people of
many settlements may be accommodated with
a ride to the Fair and Conference, and home
again, on the cars.
	AT THE last monthly meeting of the Sunday
School superintendents and teachers, most of
the counties in the Territory were represented,
and a report from each, so far as had been re-
ceived, was read by the Secretary of the Sab-
bath School Union. It was estimated that as
many as nineteen thousand children were in
regular attendance at the various Sabbath
Schools throughout the Territory.
	IN THE Ladies’ department at the Territorial
Fair there was a variety of articles, particularly
many in crochet work, which were of so simi-
lar a quality that it was impossible to judge
which was the finest specimen. Some of the
Relief Societies made a very creditable display,
and they should all feel encouraged, and deter-
mined to make greater exertions to perform
good works in the future, even than have been
accomplished in the past.
	DURING THE Fair and Conference season we
were gratified to meet with many friends of
the EXPONENT from different parts of the Ter-
ritory, with some of whom our first personal
acquaintance was then formed. Among those
who favored us with pleasant calls we noted
the names of Mrs. Mary Hindley, President of
the R. S. at American Fork; Mrs. S. A. Peter-
son, President of the Ephraim R.S.; "Flora,"
from the South; "M.," of Grantsville; and Mrs.
Frodsham and Mrs. Herrick, of Ogden City.
	AN EQUESTRIAN match between six ladies
was witnessed by a large gathering of people at
the Agricultural Park track, in this city, on the
afternoon of the 9th inst. The competition was
not for the purpose of testing the speed of the
horses, but to decide which of the ladies rode
with most case and grace, and exhibited most
skill in the management of her horse. The first
prize, a handsome side saddle, was won by Miss
Birdie Clawson. Mrs. S. Ford gained the sec-
ond prize, which was the choice among a col-
lection of beautiful pictures.	THE SCHOOL Teachers’ Convention, that met
for three consecutive days, beginning on the
2nd of October, did efficient work in matters of
Education. All the addresses made were char-
acterized by the earnest spirit of progress, just
now, and always needed in this fast country
and age. The extemporaneous address of Gov.
Wood was not only eloquent, but full of prac-
tical suggestions concerning an educational law
for the good of the Territory, and betokened a
deep and abiding interest in the cause of schools
everywhere. The address of Mr. Rollins was
marked by uncommon ability for one so young,
and was delivered in a manner which portrayed
proficiency in elocution.


WORTH NOTING.

	Do instantly whatever is to be done; take
the hours of reflection for recreation after
business and never before it. When a regi-
ment is under march, the rear is often
thrown into confusion because the front does
not move steadily and without interruption.
It is the same thing with business. If that
which is first in hand is not instantly, stead-
ily and regularly dispatched, other things
accumulate behind till affairs begin to press
all at once and no human brain can stand
the confusion. Pray mind this; it is one of
your weak points; a habit of mind it is that
is very apt to beset men of intellect and tal-
ent, especially when their time is not filled
up regularly but is left to their own manage-
ment. But it is like the ivy round the oak,
and ends by limiting if it does not destroy
the power of manly and necessary exer-
tion.—Sir Walter Scott.


SUBLIMITY.

	Whatever ennobles the human character
and indicates superior energy of intellectual
or moral qualities, is what we call mental or
moral sublimity. The sublime of human
character produces love of admiration by a
display of all the noble qualities of our na-
ture; and there is considerable sublimity in
gifts of the imagination and the understand-
ing, like those philosophers as Newton, by
such heroes as Napoleon. But when there is
a constant exertion of mental vigor—an in-
variable display of elevation of mind—an
habitual heroism evinced even amid the
storms and agitations of the passions—where
there is an heroic disregard of danger—a
cool and firm presence of mind in difficulties
and embarrassments — disinterested vir-
tues—expanded benevolence—a strong sense
of every generous feeling—a principle of
virtue superior to the opinions of weak and
corrupt men and to the vile and inordinate
propensities of our low and debased nature––
then we discover all the virtues and quali-
ties that form the utmost sublimity of hu-
man character.


THE CULTURE OF FLOWERS.

	It is very surprising that anything that
will yield so much pleasure and enjoyment
should be so universally neglected by the
wives and daughters of our farmers. Al-
though, to be fair, I think the cultivators of
flowers are on the increase from year to year.
Many ladies would like to have a flower
garden, well enough. Oh! yes; they like
flowers—“but how shall we get the ground
prepared?” they say. “We cannot go out
and hoe, and dig in the dirt.” Oh, yes, my
readers, you could, and be the gainers there-
by. Let me tell you, as one who knows by
experience whereof he speaks, that it does
not take half the strength and vitality to go
out and hoe and shovel a while in the gar-
den, that it does to sit at the sewing machine
all day, to say nothing of the benefit to be
derived from being in the open air, and the
very great pleasure, the beautiful flowers
will afford to a lover of flowers. Oh! I wish
that everybody’s wives daughters could
be induced to try the cultivation of a few
flowers. If they could, they would soon see
husbands and brothers interested, to such a
degree at least as to perform the hardest part
of the labor, and their own happiness and
pleasure increased thereby.—“Maine Farm-
er.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TRUST YOUR MOTHER.

Trust your mother, little one;
In life's morning, just begun,
You will find some grief, some fears,
Which, perhaps may cause you tears,
But a mother's kiss may heal
Many griefs that children feel;
Trust your mother—seek to prove
Grateful for her thoughtful love.

Trust your mother, noble youth.
Turn not from the paths of truth;
In temptation's evil hour,
Seek her ere it gains new power.
She will never guide you wrong;
Faith in her will make you strong.
Trust your mothor—aim to prove
Worthy of her fondest love.

Trust your mother, maiden fair,
Love will guide your steps with care;
Let no cloud e’er come between--
Let no shadow e’er be seen,
Hiding from your mother's heart
What may prove a poisoned dart.
Trust your mother—seek to prove
Worthy of her sacred love.
				—“Youth’s Cabinet."


﻿WOMANLY MODESTY.

	Modesty is to merit, what shade is to fig-
ure in painting; it gives it boldness and
prominence. Nothing adds more to female
beauty than modesty; it sheds around the
countenance a halo of light which is borrow-
ed from virtue. Botanists have given the
rosy hue which tinges the cup of the rose
the name of “maiden blush.” This pure and
delicate hue is the only paint that Christian
virtue should use; it is the richest ornament.
A woman without modesty is like a faded
flower, which diffuses an unwholesome odor,
and which the prudent gardener will throw
away from him. Her destiny is melancholy,
for it ends in shame and repentance. Beauty
passes like the flower of the aloe, which
blooms and dies in a few hours, but modesty
gives the female character charms which
supplies the place of the transitory freshness
of youth.


A MAN'S OPINION.

	Philip Stanhope, Earl of Chesterfield, was
said to be a sincere man when he had no
special need to be otherwise. It may be a
valuable contribution to the woman’s rights
controversy of the present hour to show
what this gallant and experienced person
really thought of women. Writing to his
son, in the fullest sincerity and with the
most genuine and honest desire to instruct,
this is what he says: “Women are only chil-
dren of a larger growth; they have an enter-
taining tattle, and sometimes wit, but for
solid, reasoning good sense, I never in my
life knew one that had it, or who reasoned
or acted consequentially for four and twenty
hours together. Some little passion or hu-
mor always breaks in upon their best resolu-
tions. Their beauty neglected or controvert-
ed, their age increased, or their supposed
understanding depreciated, instantly kindles
their little passions and overturns any sys-
tem of consequential conduct that, in their
most reasonable moments, they might have
been capable of forming. A man of sense
only trifles with them, plays with them, hu-
mors and flatters them, as he does with a
sprightly, forward child; but he neither con-
sults them about nor trusts them with seri-
ous matters, though he often makes them
believe that he does both, which is the thing
in the world that they are proud of, for they
love mightily to be dabbling in business
(which, by the way, they always spoil), and
being justly distrustful that men in general
look upon them in a trifling light, they al-
most adore that man who talks more seri-


ously to them, and who seems to consult and
trust them. I say who seems—for weak
men really do, but wise ones only seem to
do it."
	Now with all this great man's sincerity in
his belief of woman, (and we would not in-
dicate that we doubt it), we will venture
that the mother of the young man to whom
that wise explanation was sent—or if not
her, some other woman—could wheedle him,
with all his wisdom, into her own ways, and
make him believe—yes, "believe,"—what-
ever she chose. Such a man is the very one
to be the victim of a woman's influence.


A WOMAN OF HONOR.

	A woman of honor and purity! What a
beautiful title that is! Who would not
rather have it than any that kings can be-
stow? It is worth more than all the gold
and silver in the whole earth. She who
merits it wears a jewel within her soul, and
needs none upon her bosom. Her word is as
good as a bond. If there was no law in the
land, you might deal just as safely with her.
To take unfair advantage is not in her; to
clothe her speech so that she may lead oth-
ers to suppose she means something that she
does not, even while they cannot prove that
it is not so, would be impossible to her frank
nature. Her speeches are never riddles; she
looks you in the eye, and says straight out
the things she has to say; acting towards
others as she would have them act toward
her. The maiden of honor is always respected.
She makes a good sister and a good wife.
	Young ladies let us strive to be honorable
before our Heavenly Father, and before all
mankind. There is honor in pursuing the
line of Retrenchment which has been mark-
ed out for us with so much wisdom; in gain-
ing and giving all the instruction we can,
for our own sakes, and for the sake of God's
Kingdom. Instead of pulling each other
down, let us try to strengthen and bless
each other, and God will help us in our ef-
forts. If we have faith in our hearts when
we want anything, we will ask the Lord for
it, and if we ask not amiss, He will be sure
to grant the blessing. Our duty to our pa-
rents should never be forgotten; if they are
sick, the gentlest, kindest care that we can
bestow upon them is not too much, or more
than they would do for us.
	To be women of honor, we must strive,
not only to be truthful and honest in all re-
spects, but lady-like and amiable also.
To be choice of the words we utter and the
manners we assume, are duties which we
owe, not alone to ourselves but to our fellow-
creatures as well. For making ourselves
agreeable is adding to the comfort of those
around us.			MRS. MAY TOUT.


THE BRAIN.—One of the most inconceiv-
able things in the nature of the brain is that
the organ of sensation should itself be in-
sensible. To cut the brain gives no pain, yet
in the brain alone resides the power of feel-
ing pain in any part of the body. If the
nerve which leads from it to the injured
part be divided, it becomes instantly uncon-
scious of suffering. It is only by communi-
cation with the brain that any kind of sen-
sation is produced, yet the organ itself is in-
sensible. But there is a circumstance more
wonderful still; the brain itself may be re-
moved—may be cut away down the corpus
callosin—without destroying life. The ani-
mal lives and performs all its functions which
are necessary to simple vitality, but no long-
er having a mind, it cannot think or feel.
It requires that the food should be pushed
into the stomach; once there, it is digested,
and the animal will grow fat.


PRAISE CHILDREN.

	There is an old superstition that praise is
too good a thing to be given to children;
that it is too rich for their mental and moral
digestion. Some parents are so afraid that a
child will grow proud that they never praise
him, and this course is often disastrous. It
is apt to produce either too much self-asser-
tion—for self-assertion is a legitimate out-
growth of the withholding of commendation
to which one is entitled—or to engender a
self-distrust, of melancholy hopelessness of
disposition. Praise is sunshine to a child,
and there is no child that does not need it.
It is the high reward of one's struggle to do
right. Thomas Hughes says that you never
can get a man's best out of him without
praise. You certainly can never get a child's
best out of him without praise. Many a sen-
sitive child, we believe, dies of hunger for
kind commendation. Many a child, starving
for the praise that a parent should give, runs
off eagerly after the designing flattery of
others. To withhold praise, where it is due,
is dishonest, and, in the case of a child,
such a course often leaves a stinging sense
of injustice Motives of common justice, as
well as regard for the future of the child,
should influence the parent to give generous
praise for all that it deserves. Of course
there is a difference in the constitution of
children. Some cannot bear so much praise
as others, and some need a great deal. It
should never be indiscriminate. We remem-
ber a wonderful woman who taught school
in one village until she had educated a part
of three generations. She was one of the
most successful of teachers. But her success
lay in her gift of praising with discrimina-
tion. A bad boy who was a good scholar got
praises for his brilliancy, sandwiched be-
tween her abomination for his bad behavior,
and so was won to a better life; and we re-
call a good girl who had no gift of learning
rapidly, but was saved from utter despair by
the praise she got from her untiring industry.
Into the discouraged hearts of the children
the praise of the teacher came like sunlight.
And the virtues, like other fruits, can only
ripen in the sunshine.—Rev. E. Eggleston.


CAUGHT IN THEIR OWN TRAP.

	A couple of California convicts recently
quite outwitted themselves in planning an
ingenious escape from jail. They managed
to store themselves in a large box in the
wheelwright shop where they worked, and
had the box nailed and so arranged that
when they arrived in San Francisco, and
landed on the wharf, they could open one
end. Unfortunately for them, when the box
came on the boat one of the deck hands
turned it up on end instead of leaving it flat.
This was more than the convicts could
stand. One of them stood on his head, and
the rush of blood was more than he had bar-
gained for, while the other cried out "this
box don't stand right." The deck hand was
astonished at this exclamation, and his first
idea was that ghosts were on board. A coun-
cil was held, and the captain decided to
break open the box. To the utter astonish-
ment of everybody, as soon as the sides were
broken off, two live men came creeping out
in a state of perspiration. They were at once
recognized as convicts and were sent back 
to prison.—"Exchange."


﻿JACKSON COUNTY, Iowa, has many potato
fields this year, in which the amount yield-
ed will not equal the seed planted. It is
often the case that people plant more than
they gather, in other fields beside those for
potatoes.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[First column]
	RULES OF CONVERSATION FOR
			YOUNG LADIES.
		
			CONTINUED.
	Besides all this moral evil attendant on a
habit of exaggeration, it is a great mistake
to suppose that it makes a person more
agreeable, or that it adds to the importance
of her statements. The value of a person's
words is determined by her habitual use of
them. "I like it much," "It is well done,"
will mean as much in some mouths, as "I
am infinitely delighted with it," "Tis the
most exquisite thing you ever saw," will in
others. Such large abatements are necessa-
rily made for the statements of these roman-
cere, that they really gain nothing in the
end, but find it difficult sometimes to obtain
credence for so much as is really true;
whereas, a person who is habitually sober
and discriminating in the use of language,
will not only inspire confidence, but be able
to produce a great effect by the occasional
use of a superlative. Fidelity and exactness
are indispensable in a narrative, and the
habit of exaggerating destroys the power of
accurate observation and recollection, which
would render the story truly interesting. If,
instead of trying to embellish her account
with the fruits of her imagination, a young
lady possessed the power of seizing upon
the points best worth describing, and could
give an exact account of them, she would be
far more entertaining than any exaggeration
could make her; for there is no romance like
that of real life; and no imaginings of an
inexperienced girl can equal in piquancy
the scenes and characters that are every day
presented to our view. Extravagant expres-
sions are sometimes resorted to, in order to
atone for deficiencies of memory and obser-
vation; but they will never hide such de-
fects; and, an habitual use of them lowers
the tone of the mind, and leads to other de-
viations from the simplicity of truth and
nature.
	Another way of falsifying a narrative, is
by taking for granted what you do not know,
and speaking of it as if you did. This jump-
ing at conclusions is a fruitful source of false
reports, and does great mischief in the
world. Let no one imagine that she is walk-
ing conscientiously, who is not in the habit of
discriminating nicely between what she
knows to be fact, and what she only supposes
to be such. Some girls, without any wish
to exaggerate, contract a habit of using cer-
tain forcible expressions on all occasions,
great and small, and consequently make
some very absurd speeches. A young lady,
for example, told us she was "passionately
fond of embroidery." She had used the
word in the sense of very, till she had lost all
perception of its true meaning.
	The frequent use of some favorite word or
phrase is a common defect in conversation,
and can only be guarded against by asking
your friends to point it out to you, when-
ever they observe such a habit; for your own
ear, having become accustomed to it, may
not detect it. Some persons apply the epi-
thet "glorious," or "splendid," to all sorts
of objects indiscriminately, from a gorgeous
sunset to a good dinner.
	A young lady once tried to describe a pic-
nic party to us, in the following terms:
"There were ten of us, four on horseback,
and the rest in carriages; we set off at a
glorious rate, and had a splendid time in get-
ting there; I rode the most elegant, perfect
creature you ever saw, and capered along
gloriously. When we got there, we all walked
about in the woods, and gathered the most
splendid flowers, and dined under the shade
of a glorious old elm tree. We had our cold

[Second column]
provisions spread out on the grass, and
everything was elegant. We had glorious ap-
petites, too, and the collation was splendid,
and put us all in fine spirits. Some of the 
gentlemen sung funny songs, but one sung
such a dreadful sentimental one, and to such
a horrid, doleful tune, it made us all miser-
able. So, then, we broke up, and had a
splendid time packing away the things. Such
fun! I almost killed myself with laughing,
and we broke half the things. But the ride
home was the most splendid of all; we arriv-
ed at the top of the hill just in time to see
the msot glorious sunset I ever beheld."
	In this short account, the word "glorious"
is used five times, and in all but the last it
is grossly misapplied; the same is the case
with the word "splendid," except that it is
not once used properly. "Elegant," too, is
equally inapplicable to horses and cold pro-
visions. Yet this style of conversing is so
common, that it hardly arrests the attention
of many who, nevertheless, would condemn
it at once if they thought at all about it.
		[TO BE CONTINUED.]


PLAY.

	Nothing can be more cruel and nothing
more foolish than to place children where
they must be dressed every day in fresh and
fashionable clothes, and their freedom to
play curtailed for the sake of appearances.
What childhood needs is perfect freedom
among the things of nature—freedom to
romp, to make mud-pies, to leap fences, to
row, to fish, to climb trees, to chase butter-
flies, to gather wild flowers, to live out doors
from morning until night, and to do all
those things that innocent and healthy child-
hood delights in, in cheap, strong clothes
provided for the purpose. Exactly that
which childhood needs, manhood and wo-
manhood need—perfect liberty, and perfect
carelessness at times. So, whether the dwel-
ler by the sea, go inland for his summer play,
or the resident of the inland city go to the
sea, he should seek some spot unvisited by
those devoted to fashionable display, and
employ his time in unrestricted communion
with nature, and in those pursuits and
amusements which, without let or hin-
drance, perform the office of recreation.


SELF.

	You may depend on others for daily sup-
port. Your household duties or business af-
fairs may be left to the care of others. Ex-
penses and toil and all responsibilities may
be shirked, and left for others to attend to.
But if you would become any thing of your-
self, if you would have a bright and honor-
able name, a pure and irreproachable charac-
ter, these can only be secured to you by your
own exertions. We read of self-made he-
roes, of self-educated men. No hero ever
existed who did not, by his own self-will
and personal endeavors, perform the noble
deeds for which he became famous. No
scholar ever obtained his knowledge through
the abilities of another. His own brain had
to exert itself, and gain for itself the treas-
ures with which it was stored.
	One of the most pleasing things in nature
is to see a person earnestly striving to ac-
complish something worthy of being re-
membered and imitated. Every one likes to
be appreciated and praised. Let every one
be willing to render to others that encour-
agement which they all want for themselves.
It is unfair and selfish to ridicule or misrep-
resent the efforts of others to do something
 n the world.					L.


SCRAPS.

	"BIRDIE" is what a young husband fond-
ly calls his wife, because, as he says, she is
always associated in his mind with a bill.
	"O, MAMMA," cried a little girl, in ecstacy
with her first French doll, "I'm just full of
happiness, and I wish I'd hurry and grow
bigger, so I could be happier!"
	THE word love in one of our Indian dia-
lects is "chemlendamaoughkanagogager."
Just fancy a sweet forest-maiden telling her
copper-colored brace that she chemlendam-
aoughkanagogagers him!
	A MAN in Jersey City is reputed to be so
witty that his wife manufactures all the but-
ter which the family use from the cream of
his jokes.
	A MINISTER at a marriage, said to a farm-
er, "Our joint occupations represent the chief
excellence of life. You till, I tie. (Utility.)
	A MENDICANT in New Orleans poked out
the eye of a lady who refused to give him
alms; and the justice before whom he was
taken wanted to know if his counsel moved
for a new trial.
	A GREAT military genius gives it as his
opinion that the only difference between the
plan of a battle-field and a roasted pippin is,
that the one is a war-map and the other a
warm-ap-ple.
	A JUVENILE correspondent wants to know
which is the oldest, Miss Ann Tiquity, Miss
Ann Terior, Miss Ann Cestor, Miss Ann T.
Cedent, or old Aunty Diluvian; which equals
the signatures accompanying the valentines
sent to an old bachelor last leap year. They
were Miss Jennie Rosity, Miss Ella Gance,
Miss Maggie Zine, and Miss Mattie Nay.
	THE following bit of news—startling and
wonderful(!)—clipped from a New York co-
temporary, will be of interest (?) to some la-
dies of this city:—"A report from Salt Lake
City says that George Q. Cannon, the Utah
delegate to Congress, has secretly secured
divorces from his three wives."
	A LETTER recently passed through some
of the Southern postoffices of this Territory,
with the following inscription, evidently for
the benefit of postmasters:
	You rascal, pass this letter by, There's
nothing in it worth a fly; It only asks a loan
of cash—Pioche again has gone to smash.
	The letter reached its destined place in
good time, and the recipient found, on its
arrival, that some appreciative postmaster
had replied to the above as follows:
	The writer of this letter merits an empty
purse, Himself a rascal or something worse.
To think such a thing won't reach its desti-
nation, Deserves to be doomed to conflagra-
tion!


TWO SIDES.

	Everything weak, timid, delicate, soft,
silly and inefficient is called feminine or wo-
manish, while all things strong, noble,
hardy, courageous and active are masculine
or manlike; and there are many of the femi-
nine sex who are rightly termed silly and
weak, but there are masculines who are so
soft and yielding that they cannot resist a
proffered wine-glass or a challenge to a game
of cards, though they know that the accept-
ance of either will lead to their eternal ruin.
And have you never seen a lord of creation
move about with the meek submissiveness
of a well-trained member of the canine fam-
ily, while his weak, (?) delicate (?) better-
half reigned (and sometimes stormed)
throughout his domicil?—Ex.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MARY H. BARKER M. D.,
Office opposite Old Constitution Building, Main
Street. Office hours—10 a. m. to 3 p. m.
MRS. CARPENTER,
			Physician and Surgeon,
Office at the Townsend House. Room No. 50.
CALDER & CARELESS,
	No. 37, East Temple Street, Salt Lake City.
Agents for the Arion Piano, Mason & Hamlin Organ
and Wilson Shuttle Lock-Stitch Sewing Machine.
	All kinds of Music and Fancy Goods.		je15
FURNISH YOUR HOMES.
	I would advise the Ladies who want to buy fine
Parlor and Bed-room Sets of furniture to call and
examine the immense stock kept by
			H. DINWOODEY,
	At No. 31, East Temple Street, and No. 75, First
South Street.
H. WALLACE
	Has the best, large t and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.
BOOKS! BOOKS! PEOPLE IN WANT OF
	BOOKS IN ALL BR NCHES OF LITERATURE AND
EDUCATION will find at JAMES DWYER'S BOOK
STORE everything they need at less that Eastern
Prices. Special discounts made to all who purchase.
A Splendid Stock on hand.
		NEW CLUB RATES.
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the
part of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of
the EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects con-
templated in its publication, by making it truly an
exponent of the views of the women of Utah, sus-tained by them, read by them, and its columns
enriched with a widely circulated expression of their
thoughts, we offer the following terms to clubs, so as
to prepare for increasing the value of the next volume,
which a larger subscription list will enable us to do:
10 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club		-	-	-	-	$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club		-	-	-	-	  26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club and a framed steel engrav-
	ing, 12x16 inches, of President Brigham
	Young, selling price, $2 50	-	-	 34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club and a framed steel engrav-
	ing, 12x16 inches, of President Brigham
	Young, handsomely framed, selling
	price $4		-	-	-	-		 48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time; and addi-
tions can be made after the first list of names has
been sent.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the
risk of the publishers.
	We hope ladies throughout the Territory, especial-
ly the Presidents and Secretaries of Relief Societies
will endeavor to get up clubs, and that they will con-
stitute themselves agents for the extension of the
circulation of the EXPONENT.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	WHAT MAN carries everything before
him? The waiter. 
	THE MAN who had "a will of his own"
didn't get on very well at home, because his 
wife had a "won't of her own."
	METHODS OF INFLUENCE.—There is no
doubt that, among our social obligations,
that of influencing others to right conduct
should rank very high. We have not ful-
filled our whole duty to our fellow-men when
we have accorded them liberty of action,
have secured their natural rights, and re-
moved all impediments to their onward 
progress; we also owe them a direct and 
positive influence for good.
	ENVY PUNISHED.—A Burnmese potter, it
is said, becasme envious of the prosperity of 
a washerman, and to ruin him, induced the 
king to order him to wash one of his black
elephants white, that he might be "lord of 
the white elephant," which in the East is a 
great distinction. The washerman replied
that, by the rules of his art, he must have a 
vessel large enough to wash him in. The 
king ordered the potter to make him such a 
vessel. When made it was crushed by the 
first step of the elephant in it. Many times
was this repeated; and the potter was ruined
by the very scheme he had intended should
crush his enemy. 
	A TRUE LADY.—I cannot forbear point-
ing out to you, my dearest child, said Lord 
Collingwood to his daughter, the great ad-
vantages that will result from a temperate
conduct and sweetness of manner to all peo-
ple on all occasions. Never forget that you
are a gentlewoman, and all your words and 
actions should make you gentle I never
heard your mother—your dear, good moth-
er—say a harsh or hasty thing to any person
in my life. Endeavor to imitate her. I am
quick and hasty in my temper; but, my 
darling, it is a misfortune which, not hav-
ing been sufficiently restrained in my youth,
has caused me inexpressible pain. It has
given me more trouble to subdue this im-
petuosity than anything I ever undertook.
	A WELL known German florist related, in
a high state of irritation, his troubles, in 
this way. He said: "I have so much drouble
mit de ladies ven dey come to buy mine
rose; dey vants him hardy, dey vants him
doubles, dey vants him moundly, dey vants
him fragrand, dey vants him nice gouler,
dey vants gim ebery things in one rose. I 
hopes I am not vat you calls von uncallant
man, but I have somedimes to say to dat
laides, 'Madame, I never often sees dat la-
dies dat vas beautiful, dat vas rich, dat vas
good temper, dat vas youngs, dat vas clever,
dat vas perfection in one ladies. I see her 
much not!' "
	FIFTEEN GREAT MISTAKES.—It is a great 
mistake to set up our standard of right and 
wrong, and judge people accordingly. It is 
a great mistake to measure the enjoyment
of others by our own; to expect uniformity
of opinion in this world; to look for judg-
ment and experience in youth; to endeavor
to mould all dispositions alike; not to yield
in immaterial trifles; to look for perfection
in our own actions; to worry ourselves and 
others with what cannot be remedied; not 
to alleviate all that needs alleviation, as far
as lies in our power; not to make allowances
for the infirmities of others; to consider
everything impossible which we cannot 
perform; to believe only what our finite
minds can grasp; to expect to be able to un-
derstand everything.


Saturday Night.

Some one beautifully says: "Saturday
night makes people human, sets their hearts
to beating softly.  it is Saturday night, and 
business breathes free again.  Homeward,
ho!  The door that has been ajar all the
week gently closes behind him, the world is 
all shut out.  Shut out? shut in rather. Here
are treasures after all, and not in the vault,
and not in the book, save the record in the 
old family Bible, and not in the bank.  May
be you are a bachelor, frosty and forty.
Then, poor fellow, Saturday night is nothing
to you, just as you are nothing to anybody.
Get a wife, blue-eyed or black-eyed; but
above all, true-eyed.  Get a little home, no
matter how little, a sofa just to hold two, or
two and a half, and then get the two in it,
of a Saturday night, and then read this par-
agraph by the light of your wife's eyes, and
thank God and take courage."


THE SEX	

	THAT girls spell better than boys the an-
nual spelling matches at Washington prove. 
In some of the schools the perfect spellers
among the boys were last year two to four 
among the girls.
	A POOR servant-girl, living in Decatur,
Ill., has labored and saved for years, that
she might send money to Germany, to bring
over her father, mother, and five brothers
and sisters. At last they received a sufficient 
sum, all embarked on the fated steamer "At-
lantic," and all were lost.
	IN Mexico, Senorita Lozana recently pre-
sented herself for examination for a vacant
professorship, in the college of St. Catherine, 
and got it, over six male competitors.
	THE first grass widow was Mrs. Nebu-
chadnezzar, an ancient Queen of Babylon.
	A YOUNG lady, who does not manage her
h's with much skill, wants to know if there
is a "he" in love. There is generally.
	LOVELACE, in "Clarissa Harlowe," lays it
down as a rule that, to study the character of 
woman, you should "first find out what 
books she reads."	
	A GIRL in Indianapolis, who has $200,000,
advertises for sealed prposals for marriage. 
The postmaster has decided to charge her
double price for her box, as  it keeps one
clerk half of his time filling it up with pink-
tinted envelopes, and the whole office is
scented with musk and bergamot, like a per-
fumer's shop.


PRESIDENT GRANT refused to loan the
Reserve Fund of $44,000,000 to the Wall
street bankers, because it would be illegal.
His view of the matter is a praiseworthy
one.


STATISTICS SHOW that there are thirteen
thousand children in Wisconsin who do not
attend school this year. There is an average
of nineteen thousand in Utah who do attend
school.


THE POLAR bear does not hug like other
bears, but snaps and bites instead. Some-
times we meet with savage appearing hus-
bands, who, we imagine, have a look of the
Arctic region about them.


AMONG THE curiosities at the late Territo-
rial Fair, one of the most wonder-exciting,
to some of the young people, was a trio of
Chinese ladies, with their odd costumes and
odder chattering, one afternoon.


IN PHILADELPHIA, it has become the
fashion to present friends with boxes of nice-
ly cut flowers instead of bouquets. The la-
dies greatly prefer this method, and the
gentlemen are too polite to object.


Woman's Exponent.
