Albert Edward Winship IN COMMEMORATION OF THE 80TH ANNIVERSARY OF Dr. WINSHIP's BIRTH By Alfred Osmond, Head of the English Department of the Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah The scholar at his desk did not forget; That deserts were to blossom as the rose, Nor tangle his emotions in a net That lures to pleasant landings of repose. The river of delight, that gently flows Into the moorland marshes of desire, Is still unknown to him who freely chose To cross the deserts and to fight the fire That separate our lives from all we-most admire. "From sea to shining sea," he freely moves To serve the grateful teachers of the nation; His life still running in the kindly grooves That tempt the minds of men to seek salvation. The forces that combined in his creation Had clear provision of our daily needs, For during all the years of his migration He carries to our lives selective seeds That blossom into flowers of good and gracious deeds. And we shall not forget the plausive words That challenge the attention of our ears, For they are like the minstrelsy of birds That captivates the spirit that it cheers. We all forget our failures and our fears When Winship tells us to be strong and brave, It matters not if treason frowns and leers At those who see the rising tidal wave That is to cleanse the world intelligence will save. But man must die, and others must be born, And time, we know, will win the final race. A future day will come when we shall mourn, Because he shall have left our meeting place. But even then our love will fondly trace The circling courses of his life's career, And fancy will reveal the shining face That, like the sun, has radiated cheer And left with us a name that nations will revere. EDITORIAL  _  RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor -: - - - - -: - - Clarissa SMITH WILLIAMS Associate Editor - - - - - -.: Atice LovtIseE REYNOLDS Business Manager - - - - -: - - - Jeanette A. Have Assistant -Manager - - - - - -: Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah 

Vol. XII FEBRUARY, 1925 No. 2