The Editor Abroad The Land of Scott and Burns Alice Louise Reynolds
As one enters Scotland, one is impressed with its pastoral beauty. On every hand one sees little farms of green grass, flecked here and there with white daisies and purple thistles. These farms are surrounded by fences; sometimes low stone walls, covered -with ivy; sometimes these low stone walls form only the groundwork for a hawthorn hedge; and sometimes, and then they are the most beautiful, there is only the hawthorne hedge. At intervals between these farms are the well kept country roads, the motorists' delight. These roads are not infrequently lined with double rows of trees, making long, green avenues, of trees that have had time to mature—of trees that cast their lovely branches across one's path until one fancies he is in a fairy tower. On these little farms we saw wheat being garnered for the winter, and good, fat sheep carrying heavy coats of long wool, being driven through the country lanes in a very gentle fashion, by very gentle shepherds, it would seem. These sheep were clean, for they spend much time in the green grass, kept clean by frequent rains. On these farms and in the villages adjoining them we saw little white cottages, of one story, clean on the outside and extremely clean on the inside we were told. They were very humble cottages, containing few of what we would call modern conveniences, but homes we were assured from which the spirit of contentment had not departed, and where much happiness is found.
Riding along one of these delightful avenues in a motor car, we saw at no great distance the Solway, which at once brought to mind Scott's famous lines in "Young Lochinvar," a tribute to the occupants of the old castle of Gordon, the Knights of Lochinvar. But his poem in which he tells us that "Love ebbs like


the Solway and flows like its tide," is not the only place in which Scott speaks of the ebbing and flowing of the Solway; for a similar reference is made in his novel Red Gauntlet. One of the last ~ Scotch rivers we visited was the Tweed, a reminder of Scott's reference in "Marmion," to "Tweed's fair river." All this by way of introduction, merely to emphasize the fact that lovely as Scotland is, it has an added beauty that none can measure, for its poets have immortalized it in such fashion that - it stands before us an enchanted land, with history and legend so commingled that its history is poetry and its poetry is history.
Wordsworth had said that there is no better time to visit the English Lake Districts than in September or October. It was during the last ten days of September that our party, consisting of Professor James L. Barker, his wife, Mrs. Kate Montgomery Barker, their two daughters Nancy and Margaret, and their little son "Jim," Mrs. Kate Carathers, Miss Vilate Elliott and myself, made a trip through Scotland in a motor car. This brought us in contact with the Autumn tints, as well as the rainfall, which came each day with such surprising regularity that the weather man, distressed by the drought in California and Utah, was seeking to even things up by according to Great Britain an overgenerous supply. In introducing the members of the party, it is with a belief that it will add materially to the interest of the articles, as our aim is to make them somewhat chatty and informal, and the introduction of one's traveling companions helps to bring about the desired results.
We had spent the night in Carlisle, an English city of considerable interest, and of considerable importance. We had just passed through the English Lake Districts, famous the world over for their beauty, and so we mused half wondering whether Scotland and her Lake Districts would be equally beautiful, when we were suddenly made aware that we had crossed the Scottish border. Five members of our party were of Scottish ancestry; the parents of one of them had been born in Scotland, the grandparents of another, as for the three younger members, it was for them, grandparents once removed. Five of the eight persons comprising the group had never visited Scotland before. It was a tense moment, "Sing something," this request came from Mrs. Barker, who intimated, thereby, that she had little faith in her own ability to sing under the present stress of emotion, or else that she did not indulge in singing under any circumstances. In any event, one tried "Annie Laurie," another "Auld Lang Syne," yet another the "Bonnie, Bonnie Banks of Loch Lomond," while a fourth, the venerable aunt, sang, ""Ye Banks and Braes of Bonnie Doon." Perhaps none of us succeeded in doing anything that might rightfully be called singing, but we did succeed in relieving
THE EDITOR ABROAD 57
our pent up emotions, and in proving once more that there is no dearth of songs in Scotch literature.
Finally, we arrived in Dumfries, a city in the south of Scotland, which Burns designated, the "Queen City of the South." We visited first the Mausoleum, where he and his wife are buried. They had struggled on in poverty with a family of nine children; only one of their descendants is now alive, a maiden lady, Jean Armour Burns Brown. It would seem after their struggle to rear their family that fate has been a bit unkind. The Mausoleum is one of many beautiful monuments found all over Scotland, as well as other parts of Great Britain, to the memory of the chief of our English song writers. From the
MAUSOLEUM OF BURNS
Mausoleum we passed to the little home where the poet died, a considerable part of which has been converted into a Burn's Museum, and on the window of which one may see his name scratched with a diamond ring. We now turned towards Ayr, the city of his birth. On our way we visited Ellisland, a farm which the poet leased from Mr. Metler in 1788. Here he composed "Tam O'Shanter," "Auld Lang Syne," "To Mary in Heaven," and a number of other favorites.. Passing from Ellisland, Mossgill was in our path, a place where Burns lived three years, and where he wrote a good many poems, most of them in the stable loft where he slept. "The
THE EDITOR ABROAD 59
ALLOWAY KIRK
A short distance ahead from the Burns cottage, we come to Alloway Kirk, now roofless, with the bells still hanging onto the gable. The poet's father is buried in this churchyard. The tombstone contains this tribute written by the son:
"O ye whose cheek the tear of pity stains, Draw near with pious reverence and attend; Here lies the loving husband's dear remains; The tender father and the generous friend; The pity heart that felt for human woe; The dauntless heart that felt no human pride; The friend to man, to vice alone a foe, For even his failings leaned to virtue's side."
But readers of Burns are more familiar with Alloway Kirk, as the place the witches were dancing, when Tam, passing by on his grey mare Meg, startled them from their frolic, from whence they pursued him to the keystone of the arch, departing hence with Grey Meg's tail. A very short distance from old Alloway Kirk is the Burn's monument, erected in 1820, at a cost of sixteen thousand dollars; its designer was Thomas Hamilton, of Edinburgh. Among the most interesting relics in the monument are a Bible presented to Highland Mary, at the time that she and Robert Burns became engaged, and the wedding ring of Jean Armour. The grounds about the monument are beautifully kept, the flowers were blooming in profusion in late September. We were told that they were


much more beautiful in July and August; even so, they presented a perfect riot of color, at this time.
We next came to the "Brig of Doon." The bridge has a Norman arch and is very old. It deserves the poet's tribute so. Popular in song:
"Ye banks and braes O' bonny Doon, How can ye bloom sae fresh and fair? How can ye chant, ye little birds, And I sae weary fu'o' care? Thou'lt break my heart, thou warbling bird, That wantons through the flowering thorn, Thou mind'st me of departed joys, Departed—never to return."
We crossed the Brigs of Ayr, both the Old Brig and the New Brig. If any of our readers are interested in these bridges they might find delight in reading Burn's poem, "The Twa Brigs of Ayr."
Leaving Ayr we started in search of Montgomery castle. The feeling in our party was most keen about the castle; for Mrs. Barker's uncle, her father's eldest brother, was the rightful heir to the castle. We were very much interested in knowing to whom the castle belonged at the present time. We rode along through a beautiful avenue of trees, finally reaching the lodge which, following the rule, in such cases, was at the gate, Mrs. Barker went to the lodge and was received by the wife of the keeper, who told her that the gentleman now in possession of the castle is one by the name of Arthur, but she added, he is not home, at present.: Nevertheless, we were permitted to enter the grounds, which we found to be exceedingly beautiful, and quite in keeping with the popular notion of estates belonging to British aristocrats. But whether or not the estate has passed from its rightful owners, its name remains unchanged, and like Old Alloway Kirk, and the Brig of Doon, has been immortalized by Burns, for it was here that Highland Mary lived, who was the dairy maid of the castle, and it was across this lovely country that Burns went to visit her.
"Ye banks and braes and streams around The Castle O' Montgomery, Green be your woods and fair your flowers, Your waters never drumlie! There Simmer first unfolds her robes, And there the longest tarry; For there I took the last fareweel O' my sweet Highland Mary."
THE EDITOR ABROAD 61
THE "BRIG OF DOON"
We left the Castle of Montgomery and drove into Glasgow. We had gone a distance of 41 miles during the day. When we arrived in Glasgow we learned that Sir Harry Lauder was billed for the week, and that the people in Glasgow were filling their commodious theatre twice each evening to hear him. We had heard Harry Lauder several times in America, but to really know what Harry Lauder puts into his songs one must see him and hear him in his own Scotland. The Clyde river runs through Glasgow in much the same way that the Thames runs through London and the Seine runs through Paris. On the evening that it was our good fortune to listen to Mr. Lauder the scenery that furnished the setting for one of his songs reflected the purple heather and yellow gorse of Scotland; and Harry Lauder, in a fancy Highland costume, sang, "Roamin' in the Gloamin', on the bonnie banks O' Clyde." In this environment the song took on a meaning that it never could have taken on, in other surroundings; a fact made doubly clear as we listened to the reaction of the audience, for they greeted him with round on round of applause, at the first note from the orchestra. There is much heart power in Scotland; one can feel it in the words they use in their ordinary conversation, as well as in their highly emotional songs. Surely there is more heart power expressed when a child is referred to as "A wee laddie," than as a


little boy. Our party was late into Glasgow that evening, consequently we were able to obtain only standing room. Very proudly one connected with the theatre told us that Sir Harry Lauder would realize $10,000 from the week's engagement, and that, he added, is more than he makes in America. We did not argue the case with our informant, we merely enjoyed his pride, for it appeared to us to be the honest pride of Robert Burns; and when after standing most of the evening the usher was able to find us seats, because some one had left, we were a trifle pleased, I think, that he said to us, "Come and sit down and rest a wee bit."
Yes, Scotland is bonnie, from the Clyde to the Forth, from the Solway to the Tweed, whether ye take the high road or the low road, it is all the same, from the banks and braes of bonnie Doon: to the bonnie, bonnie banks of Loch Lomond.