[WomansExponent | Vol11 | 1882 | March | Issue: 20 | Title: THE CHARACTER OF LADY | Author: Unknown]

	﻿THE CHARACTER OF LADY
			MACBETH.
			     _____
	In the character of Lady Macbeth, we find
the commingling of two sets of elements; one

[Column 2]
the combination of superior intellect, refine-
ment, high courage, womanly love and affec-
tion, indomitable will, power, and fidelity-
Contrasted with, antagonized, and finally over-
powered, by a baser set; foremost among
which, and predominating over all the others,
is mad ambition, in fact, the others are but
outgrowths of this one ruling power. Let us
examine this passion, and see under what
peculiar guise it is presented in the character
before us. The word ambition we generally
associate with an innate desire on the part of
its possessor to accomplish its own aggrandize-
ment, self, being the great central motive
power, or pivot, around which all other issues
revolve, and to which they are subservient.
But in Lady Macbeth we find that self is not
the basis or foundation of that vaulting ambi-
tion which transformed her into a thing of
evil, and caused her to violate not only the
most sacred claims of kindred and hospitality,
but also to lead Macbeth on to his destruction,
the one being on earth whom she had sought
to exalt. It was for him and not herself that
caused her to steep her heart in guilt, and
bathe her hand in blood, that little hand, that
"all the perfumes of Arabia could not after-
wards sweeten." It was for him that she be-
came the impersonation of evil passion; to
place within his hand the sceptre, and upon
his brow the imperial crown, she had sold her-
self to hell. Among the nobler qualities of
her mind and heart, we find high courage,
womanly love and sympathy, filial and paren-
tal affection; the two latter traits strikingly
exhibited where she says: "I have given suck
and know how tender it is to love the babe
that milks me," and the sentence, "Had he not
resembled my father as he slept," etc., occur-
ring as it does in the midst of a tumultuous
throng of evils, has been likened to the unex-
pected tender minor chord occurring in one of
Weber's or Beethoven's symphonies, and steal-
ing over the ear is heard amid the magnificent
crash of harmony, making the blood pause,
and filling the eyes with unbidden tears.
	We cannot look upon Lady Macbeth as a
monster of depravity, or a "masculine virago,"
but as a proud, noble, brilliant, intellectual
woman, who fell from her high pinnacle of
virtue through mistaken love, and the lack of
Christian influences. Had the circumstances
of her life been other than they were, she pos-
sessed elements of mind and heart which, pro-
perly directed, would have made her stand out
prominently among the noblest of woman-
kind.
	Black as is the crime which she ushers on
to a successful issue, we find by way of pal-
liation that she is not the sole originator of the
dreadful conception, for it springs within Mac-
beth's mind, before his lady is introduced; 'tis
true she takes a more active part in the crime
afterwards, but commentators on the play say
that it is due to her superiority of intellect,
rather than her love of blood, and her more
thorough executive ability, as compared with
that of her more timid husband, and had it
not been for her self-possession and courage,
they would have been discovered at the mur-
der of Duncan, and identified with it. It was
not altogether the pangs of conscience that
made Macbeth oblivious to the danger of his
situation, and the necessity of concealment, as
he stood with the bloody hands and dripping dag-
ger, in the open court, but a lack of that self
poise and dauntlessness that marked the supe-
rior mind of Lady Macbeth.
	After the commission of her first great
crime, we find her not a willing agent in other
deeds of blood, but devotedly engaged in sup-
porting the nervous weakness of her husband,
until that greatest of all  wrecks, aberration
of the mind, made her oblivious to all earthly
woes. In her sad life we read the story of "a
proud heart broken."			ZOE.


