[WomansExponent | Vol11 | 1882 | March | Issue: 20 | Title: R S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY | Author: Unknown]

R S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.
HYRUM.	
	The Primary Association of Hyrum held
their annual meeting, March l6th. The meet-
ing house was well filled. Quite a number of
visitors were present. On the stand were Presi-
dent Lucy Wilson, Jane E. Molen, President
of Stake, Christena Johnson and Frances
Stephens, Counselors of the Relief Society. Of
the brethren, Bishop Simpson Molen, David
Osborne and Alma Benson. Sister Lucy Wil-
son presiding. Prayer by Brother D. Osborne,
Singing. Roll called. Minutes of previous meet-
ing read and approved. Reports were then read
and accepted.
	Exercises. Lecture from Parley P. Pratt,
Milia Corbett; Recitation, Hannah Iverson;
Song, Joseph Wintle; Recitation, Clara Fellef-
son, entitled, “The Purest Pearl;” Dialogue
by Ella Stephens and Harriet Shaw, “Primary
Meeting;” Song, Sarah Hanson; Recitation,
“Cold Water,” by three little girls; Recitation,
Thomas Fellefson; Song, Emma Hanson and
Eva Unswortk.
	President Wilson made a  few remarks,
wished to do her duty at all times, and teach
the children the ways of life and salvation.
Sister Johnson was the next speaker; she spoke
encouragingly to the children, said there was a
great improvement in the Association. Sister
Stephens spoke a few words on the good that
was being done in teaching the children the
principles of truth, and preparing their young
minds for usefulness in the Kingdom. Sister
Molen spoke very interestingly to the children.
Bishop Molen said, “I regret there are not
more boys belonging to the Association; “said
the boys who attend the Primary are the best
boys, we ought not to drink liquors nor use to-
bacco,but should keep the “Word of Wisdom.”
	The Primary Association also gave an enter-
tainment in February. The exercises consisted
of songs and recitations, selected from the
Primary Speaker. We had a good time; all
present were pleased with the entertainment.
The proceeds were $15. We gave $7.20 to the
missionaries, and the remainder was used for
the Primary.
	Our meetings are interesting, and much
credit is due to the President and those asso-
ciated with her. Ever praying for the welfare
of Zion, and the success of the Exponent.
Alice TJnsworth,
Corresponding Secretary.

[column 2]
