[Vol21 | September 1934 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Article | Title: Happenings Cannon]

Happenings By Anne Wells Cannon SEPTEMBER? month of hope and beauty.
Asters and golden glow vie in loveliness with fleecy clouds and purple hills. Children's laughter makes music with the dancing leaves and: fragrance of lush meadows and fruited orchards whisper, "harvest time." LADY LINDSEY, wife of England's ambassador to America, is American born. She says "being a diplomat's wife isn't all trains and tiaras, one has to be very much a career woman herself." FRANCES E. WILLIS, one of three women in the American diplomatic service, has been transferred from' Stockholm to Brussels. The other women in the foreign service are Ruth Bryan Owen, minister to Denmark, and Constance Ray Harney, vice consul at Milan, Italy. MRS. RUTH HAMPTON of Chicago is assistant director in the agency government of America's non-continental domain. She will have charge of Hawaiian affairs. MARGARET HAYES of California, a Civil War nurse, died this summer at the age of 101 years.
Another centenarian, Rachel Burris, died near the same time, age 110 years. The 10 decades of the lives of these women marked marvelous events in the nation's history. MAUDE ADAMS at the age of 62 has returned to the stage for a tour of "one nighters" as Maria in Shakespeare's "Twelfth Night." KATHARINE CORNELL was recently voted the most popular stage actress by the senior class of New York University. MARIE DRESSLER, famed film actress, whose recent death was so widely mourned, completed her autobiography before she was stricken. Her book, "My Own Story," will be greeted with interest if like herself it tells the genuineness of life's struggle. It was her rich qualities of mind and heart more than her art which won the affection of her many friends. MME. RAMOLA HIJINSKY has written the biography of her artist husband, the famous Russian ballet dancer. She tells the strange story simply and directly.
Even so it is intensely dramatic. JESSIE B. RITTENHOUSE has recently published her own story, "The House of My Life," which the critics recommend as a tonic to the younger generation who may be hesitating over their own careers. She relates sincerely how she arrived in her chosen way of self expression and met many choice spirits of her day. PHYLLIS BOTTOME'S latest book, "Private Worlds," with its unusual background and setting?a mental hospital?has become very popular.
Though it is by no means her best novel, it is interesting, and as a psychiatric study is intensely dramatic. HOBART'S "River Supreme," Phyllis Bentley's "The Spinner of the Years," and "The Valiant Life" by Margaret Wilson, are among the most recent novels written by women.