[Vol21 | September 1934 | Sequence: 32 | Category: Guide | Title: Lesson Department]

Lesson Department Theology and Testimony (First Week in November) ALLEGIANCE TO THE CHURCH Ecclesiastical Authority.
Outstanding among all the characteristics of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is the claim that its authority to act in the name of God was received from heavenly personages empowered by the Messiah himself. A few other churches, including the Eastern Orthodox, the Roman Catholic, and the Episcopalian, assert that their authority comes from the apostles of Christ or through the bishops of Rome.
Other churches claim authority through the Bible, others through the so-called vested rights of the individual, while many others claim no authority at all. The Latter-day Saints assert that as early as 1829
John the Baptist appeared to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery, and ordained them to the Aaronic Priesthood, and that a little later the Melchizedek Priesthood was restored through the angelic administration of Peter, James and John.
Still later certain keys of the Priesthood were given by Elijah, Elias, Moses, and others.
With the most painstaking care this authority to act in the name of God has been conferred by one individual to another until at present there are thousands within the Church who possess it, in various degrees and with various responsibilities. The Priesthood is of such paramount importance to the Church that without it authority to act in the name of God would disappear, and the Church itself would be more or less indistinguishable from other ecclesiastical organizations. Indeed, if the Church were stripped of its Priesthood, there would be little excuse for its existence, other than for general moral purposes. The Latterday Saints understand this, and therefore they regard the Priesthood as the choicest gift of God, indispensable not only to the Church but also to their own salvation. Leaders Divinely Chosen.
With reference to the authority of the Holy Priesthood, the apostle Paul said: "No man taketh this honor unto himself, but he that is called of God as was Aaron." (Hebrews 5:4) The manner in which Aaron was chosen is recorded in the twentyeighth chapter of Exodus, first verse.
This is the word of the Lord to Moses, chosen by divine command as leader of the people: "Take thou unto thee Aaron thy brother, and his sons with him, from among the children of Israel, that he may minister unto me in the priest's office." It is a doctrine of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints that its leaders are chosen by inspiration from God. Men of themselves do not possess sufficient wisdom to make the proper selection. Moreover, when men are thus chosen Deity will give with them his Spirit, and thus make them equal to every requirement exacted of them. If, however, men are self-appointed, they have claim to no such promise.
Voice of the People. The best regard which Deity has for his children is shown in the fact that the individuals selected by him to be 558 leaders must be acceptable to the people before they are called to preside.
This was made known very early in the history of the Church, indeed, a few days preceding its organization. (See Doc. And Cov. 20: 63-67) When the Church was formally organized, April 6, 1830, Joseph called upon those present to know whether they were willing to sustain him and Oliver Cowdery as the presiding officers of the Church. It was not until after an affirmative vote was given that they were ordained to this position. (See History of Church, Vol. I, p. 77) That these men were called of God is shown by his own statement as follows: "There shall be a record kept among you; and in it thou shalt be called a seer, a translator, a prophet, an apostle of Jesus Christ, an elder of the Church through the will of God the Father, and the grace of your Lord Jesus Christ.
Wherefore it behooveth me that he should be ordained by you, Oliver Cowdery, mine apostle." (Doc. And Cov., Section 21) Following this practice, established and ordained of the Lord, the Latter-day Saints are now given frequent opportunities for expressing their approval or disapproval of their presiding officers.
Votes are called for, not only when the leaders are selected, but at numerous times during their terms of office. The procedure is well known among the Latter-day Saints and  therefore needs no description here.
Thus an individual may attain leadership only after he is called of God, approved by the people, and duly set apart by those having the divine right so to do. What Approval Entails.
Approval of those selected of the Lord is far more than a perfunctory raising of the right hand. It is a solemn agreement with God, executed in the presence RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of the congregation. In its essential form the condition is this: Deity has selected an individual for a specific position, and has instructed that his choice be submitted to the people for their action.
Thus when the member raises his hand in approval, he becomes a co-partner with God in his selection, and thereby tacitly agrees to do everything within his power for the success of the one thus mutually chosen. Moreover, this covenant is made in the presence of witnesses, both human and divine.
Such a pledge cannot be broken or even regarded lightly with impunity. The manner in which Deity respects appointments of this nature is well shown by his statement concerning the Prophet Joseph, as follows: "Wherefore, meaning the church, thou shalt give heed unto all his words and commandments, which he shall give unto you as he receiveth them, walking in all holliness before me; for his word 'ye shall receive, as if from mine own mouth, in all patience and faith." (Doc. And Cov. 21:4, 5) Again: "Whosoever receiveth my word receiveth me, and whosoever receiveth me receiveth those, the First Presidency, whom I have sent, whom I have made counselors for my name's sake unto you." (Doc. And Cov. 112: 20) Surely, when God respects his appointments in this manner, no doubt can exist concerning the responsibility of those who pledge themselves to support his selections.
Violation of the Covenant.
Perhaps two things are chiefly responsible for the violation of this pledge, namely: (1) failure to understand its full import, and (2) widespread tendency to criticize the acts of others. The first can ordinarily be overcome by proper explanation; the second is more difficult to eradicate. The individual should not permit his LESSON DEPARTMENT approval of Church leaders to become formal or perfunctory.
This covenant should be made with full knowledge of its meaning and sanctity.
When this is done it will seldom be violated. In the second case, there are some who appear to think that by criticizing others they may elevate themselves. Indeed, the spirit of criticism is an admission of supposed self-superiority. | Humble people never engage in fault-finding: this is done only by those who are convinced of their own excellence. Criticism, such as this, is a mark of weakness, not of strength. It should scarcely be expected that an individual can violate his covenant with God and remain immune to the consequences.
Deity does not remain bound in such cases. God's promises to his children are predicated upon obedience.
Here are his words: "I, the Lord, am bound when ye do what I say; but when ye do not what I say, ye have no promise." (Doc. And Cov. 82:10) Accordingly, when an individual covenants, with uplifted hand, to support those whom the Lord has chosen, and subsequently violates his agreement, he cannot hope to retain divine favor. It is not strange therefore than when an individual acquires the habit of criticizing Church authorities, the Spirit of the Lord is withdrawn from him, and if he does not reform, he will sooner or later lose his testimony of the truth.
There is probably no surer way to lose interest in the Church than to criticize its leaders.
Duty of Parents.
Parents can perform a great service to their children in this connection.
Children should be taught the sanctity of the covenant involved in sustaining Church leaders.
They should come to recognize this covenant as a privilege and an obligation?a privilege in joining with God in the selection 559 of those who are to lead Israel, and an obligation to make the work of those thus selected most successful.
They must come to know that they have no right to criticize, and if they do so, they have violated their agreement and grieved the Spirit of God.
Perhaps most of all, parents themselves should never be guilty of fault-finding, for children learn even more quickly by example than by word. If parents deliberately planned to drive their children from the Church they could scarcely resort to a more effective measure than criticism of its leaders. The Church President. The Lord has made it very clear that there is only one person upon the earth at a time who has the right to receive revelation for the guidance of the Church.
Here are his words: "I have appointed unto my servant Joseph to hold this power in the last days, and there is never but one on the earth at a time on whom this power and the keys of this priesthood are conferred." (Doc. And Cov. 132:7) The responsibility for the guidance of the Church thus rests upon the President, and not upon its individual members; they are given neither the power nor the responsibility.
They have covenanted, however, to uphold the President and to sustain him in all his endeavors to promote the cause of righteousness. On the other hand, Deity will hold them responsible for this promise. He expects the members of the Church to receive the teachings of the President as if they came from his own mouth. (Doc. And Cov. 21:5) According to the teachings of the Latter-day Saints the President of the Church in this day holds the same power and responsibility as did the Prophet Joseph; and it accordingly behooves the members of the Church to give him the same respect and support. Noth560 ing less is acceptable to God. The members of the Church are required to give their allegiance not only to their President, but to every individual endowed with responsibility, from the greatest to the very least.
Even the deacon who calls at the door must be treated with courtesy and respect.
Every individual who is called to the work of Christ is entitled to the support of those with whom he is laboring.
Suggestions for Diesen and ? Review 1.
Contrast the authority held by RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE our church leaders with that held by the leaders of other religious denominations. 2. Why is it necessary in your judgment that Church leaders should be divinely chosen? 3. Why do you suppose that God requires Church leaders to be submitted to the vote of the people? 4. In what way does a member of the Church injure himself by criticizing his leaders? May he also injure others? How? 5. How can the Relief Society assist in promoting allegiance to the Church and to its leaders?