[WomansExponent | Vol21 | 1892 | September | Issue: 6 | Title: IN RURAL ENGLAND. | Author: Unknown]

IN RURAL ENGLAND.

XXII.
	The journey from London was com-
paratively dnll, Lady Anna grieved being
separated from Maitland, and Miss Conway
was full of vague uncertainties as to her
meeting the Doctor; Clair was the only
really cheerful one of the party; he was
returning heart whole, and with bright
prospects of future prosperity in store. He
tried to keep up a brilliant run of conver-
sation with the young ladies, but it was im-
possible even for him, with his youthful ex-
uberance of spirits; and the second day out,
he relapsed into silence.
	The old coach horses jogged on and the
hours wore away, there was very little to
interest one in the scenery at this early
season of the year, the clouds were dark
and the March winds blew fiercely, so that
there was no chance of opening the coach
windows, and Clair whistled and sang
snatches of songs for his own amusement
until his sister Anna complained, and then
he teased and worried her about Maitland
and Rob Harrison in sheer desperation for
want of something to occupy his time.
	Never was a young woman in more
thoughtful mood than Jane Conway during
the entire journey; she scarcely spoke at all,
except when it was positively necessary, but
on reaching the grounds near the park, she
felt it an imperative duty to herself and
others to rouse from the reverie that had
enveloped her all the way from London,
and to make an effort to respond at least to
the cordial welcome, if homely one, she
knew would be given the party on their re-
turn to the Castle.
	Some rods distant from the great gateway,
horsemen were seen coming towards them,
and Jane's heart beat rapidly feeling sure
Dr. Bland was one of the company. Sure
enough it was the Doctor and a few of his
friends, to escort them in. Jane Conway
knew by this demonstration that he felt
sure of her, or he would have come un-
attended; she was not certain of her self-
control but summoning courage she stood
the test modestly as became the occasion,
and no one unless skilled in love matters

[Column 2]

could have detected the embarrassment she
really felt.
	"The feast is spread, the servants in
holiday attire and the gateways festooned
with trailing evergreens from the park, and
you will be welcomed in the most courtly
manner; a few of the neighbors have been
invited to welcome home the young master
of Hilliard Castle and estates," said the
Doctor, after the first salutations were over.
	"I was in hopes our home-coming would
have been with out parade or demonstration
after so long an absence," replied Miss Con-
way.
	"It would have been impossible after the
message sent down by Burke and Hemen-
way that Mr. Hilliard was to take formal
possession in place of his father, and the
Rector himself has been invited, so you see
it becomes a duty of the nobility he repre-
sents to have some formality, in order to
give a sort of legality to the affair, and
really the gathering is very small compared
to the wealth and rank of the young heir.
It shall be made as light as possible for you,
Lady Anna will be expected to show her-
self equal to the honors, but the principal
thing will be to make the right impression
upon all present, and especially the old re-
tainers and tenantry who are critical on
these customs and usages at festive cere-
monies."
	"We must have time to change our
traveling dresses for dinner costume, after
responding to the salutations outside, my
good Doctor," said Lady Anna.
	"As to that you are the best judges, I see
nothing amiss, your maids will attend to
the dressing, whatever an old fellow like
me might have to say. I see you have a
new attendant, and the Doctor bowed po-
litely to the pretty French maid who rode
with them to be near when wanted. The
coach drew up to the wide massive door-
way and the ponderous oak doors were un-
bolted with great ceremony and there stood
in state, not only the porter and attendants
but the late Baronet's solicitors Burke and
Hemenway, whom the in-coming party had
supposed were at their office in London; the
young Baronet was almost carried off his
feet, and so little did he know of the
strange proceedings that he was scarcely
coherent in his replies. The young Lady
did much better, and Miss Conway whose
part in the involuntary program came last
was so reserved, only bowing, nodding and
smiling that she quite awed the crowd of
enthusiastic admirers, who thronged the
hall and outer landing.
	"How handsome the young heir has
grown, what a magnificent figure and bear-
ing he has! A charming foreign accent and
wonderful eyes! He'll set the whole
country wild!" These and many other
similar exclamations from the crowd were
heard as they passed along, as well as favor-
able comments upon Lady Anna's figure
and appearance, "so like her mother,"
some were remarking, "the same delicate
features, and heavenly eyes;" finally the
girls reached the apartment made ready for
them, where warm wood fires and pale yel-
low lights cast gloomy shadows in the dark


[Column 1]

﻿rooms; and a shiver of nervous fear ran
through Lady Anna as she recalled the
scenes that had transpired of late, and she
could not avoid saying aloud "what a home
coming this is." Her maid caught the re-
mark and began praising everything, tell-
ing her she must not indulge in idle fancies,
but hurry up with the preparations and
consider what to wear on such an auspicious
occasion.
	"The most elegant and decidedly plain
dinner dress I have in my wardrobe," said
Lady Anna with a positive tone that made
Marie look up in amazement, but she yield-
ed the point, though she had prided her-
self on having her resemble a fairy queen
in crepe and pearls which best suited her
style-
	The great bell rang announcing the ban-
quet and Clair was on hand to escort his
sister, the Doctor waited impatiently for
his fiance, for he had not been alone with
her yet; he took her arm in his and led her
aside for a moment; with the calmness of a
saint at the altar of sacrifice she received
his tender embraces, and he was too much
wrought upon to notice her coldness, and
attributed her silence to the excitement and
the importance of the responsibility which
was pending. He was so certain of the
prize he had won that no doubt of its slip-
ping away from him ever entered his head.
	The dinner was a tedious affair as such
feasts generally are, everything was on such
a large scale, and Clair unaccustomed to
presiding at table for the small family of
three, would have been lost without Dr.
Bland's efficient help, who lightened his
task (for such it was) in every conceivable
way.
	Clair had been informed when he first ar-
rived that there would be dancing later on,
a thing unknown in that place, in fact no
one present could recall such an event never
at any time during the recollection of the
guests assembled now, so said one after
another.
	"There is no help for it" said Anna to
her consin, "we must dress again, though
I'm dead tired, and don't want to dance
with these country bumpkins, Clair and the
Doctor are the only good partners, and I
want to go to bed, after such a jaunt and all
this fuss and flurry. Clair is welcome to
all the honors, and I shall not dispute any
claim, and therefore he should do all the
honors, and excuse me from any 'part or
parcel' in the matter; which seems to be
wholly for his glorification."
"O, as to that" replied her cousin, "it is"
pretty evenly divided between you, bnt save
for the fact of his masculinity my opinion
is, we never should have heard of his ex-
istence."
	Anna looked as if she but half compre-
hended the insinuation but said, "Clair is
older and seniority counts a great deal
among the English nobility, it might have
been more unpleasant for me, had he not
been a boy, with those bewitching eyes of
his; I'm glad its no worse, and really what
makes you say we should never have heard
of the heir if he had not been a boy."
"Because it is a stubborn fact of which I am
fully assured; have you not observed in the
course of your short life the deference paid
to men of title in contra-distinction to wo-
men of rank who were far more deserv-
ing."
	"O, but its so different with us, we're of
very little consequence until we're married,
we have no prospect of public trust as papa
used to say, "all this bosh and humbug of

[Column 2]

elections, spending a lot of money to get
some one into office so as to keep up with
the rest of the world," he believed in the
old feudal times of the Barons when every
man's castle was his stronghold, and he was
master by right of his inheritance."
	"He lived up to that as well as he could
in those times, methinks; but, honor bright
cousin mine, its all wrong this discrimi-
nation against our sex, we ought to have
the same rights as our brothers; but we
must dress to dance with the guests of the
fete in honor of the new master, whatever
dislike we may have to the reverent com-
pany," and so the colloquy ended for the
time being. The hours sped gaily notwith-
standing, the great variety of costumes
and colors, the quaint and uncouth manners
of the country people gave merriment to
the festivities, and the young ladies were
highly amused, and danced and laughed
and forgot their weariness and ill-humor in
the general hilarity.
	Even stately Jane Conway grew more
genial under the influence of the music, and
her old bachelor lover felt quite at ease in
the warmth of her smiles, though not a
loving word passed between them until the
time for departure, which was very late, the
great clock of the castle had long since
sounded the midnight hour, and in crowds
the guests were leaving, when, drawing
Miss Conway aside, her lover whispered in
her ear, "tomorrow I shall be here early,
and now my best beloved, Good-night," and
he pressed her hand warmly.
	The guests were all gone, the lights were
extinguished, Clair and Anna had retired,
everything was quiet only Jane Conway
restless and dissatisfied with herself, paced
up and down her room fretting like a caged
bird, beating against its bars. "Tomorrow
he will come and what does my heart say?
That I would rather a thousand times live
out this poor life alone, than be united to
one I cannot love unreasonable, and yet he
is so noble and so true, why not make this
sacrifice of self for his happiness? he
deserves it from me, and I can devote my
whole life to him, would it be right? I know
not. No man in the wide, wide world will
ever care for me perchance as he does, and
I dread the future. Anna will marry soon
and go to her own home; in time Clair will
bring to the old homestead a fitting bride,
and I should be a pensioner, as it were in
my late uncle's domain. No! I shall not,
will keep my troth, I am resolved, come
what may," and she threw off her apparel
hastily and jumped into bed as though
afraid to meditate longer. Once sound
asleep after the fatigue and worry of the
day, she dreamed such a dream as one sel-
dom forgets.
	"She was in a strange land, everything
was rude and primitive, she was dressed in
dead black from head to foot, and stood in
the midst of a crowd feeling utterly alone;
she gazed afar off and saw the great bound-
less ocean heaving and surging, and she
heard the sobbing and moaning of the sad,
sea waves as she had often heard it when a
child. She strained her eyes in the distance,
and discoverd afar off a speck in the dim
horizon or on the great sea waves; the
others seemed to be all going in the same
direction: she felt her hand grasped with a
warm clasp and, looking down, saw a little
boy, fair haired and sunny-hued, his golden
curls streaming over his velvet collar, he
too was all in black, and her heart smote
within her as if some terrible calamity had
befallen her. She gazed athwart the sea

[Column 3]

again and nearer came the speck dancing
as it were upon the distant waves. The
noise of the crowd upon the shore seemed
shrill and cruel in her ears and she tighten-
ed her hold upon the child's hand, who
looked lovingly into her face and uncon-
sciously she exclaimed "so like Dr. Bland,"
and the boy wept; but she shed no tears,
nor did she try to soothe him, but gazed afar
until the deafening shouts, went up from
the landsmen "ship ahoy! see she comes
this way!" and then she turned and hurried
inland; mechanically along a winding path
till she came upon a cluster of hamlets in
the deep forests unlike any she had ever
seen, rougher and heavier built, one or two
women met her on the way, they were go-
ing towards the seashore, and they spoke
pityingly, but she passed on not heeding
them; all the time the cries and shouts of
the people on the beach were sounding in
her ears, and echoing back from among the
green woods; the child turned often to look
backward, but she kept on her way and en-
tered the low doorway of one of the rude
cabins seemingly to rest for she felt very
weary; the child begged her to go back to
the shore to see the ship, and finally she
rose and followed the little child, who hast-
ened towards the sea; the people nodded
pleasantly and some saluted her gallantly,
one or two dark-skinned and warrior-like
in stature and equipments, such as she
never remembered having seen before, spoke
kindly and patted the lad's head, though
their faces were painted and they were be-
decked with feathers, beads and the fur of
animals; she recalled having read of such
people in the old, old books; she must have
lingered long away in that hut in the forest
she thought, for the ship had landed, and
putting up her hand to shade her eyes, for
she was dazzled, she saw coming ashore,
and questioning the by-standers as he came
Rob Harrison; but he was much older,
though she knew him at a glance, and
blushing she turned to fly from him, but
the boy was not at her side and she felt she
must not lose him; while she hesitated, the
stranger had overtaken her,and without ask-
ing, kissed her there upon the highway,
the crowd bustling around them; the boy
was there too and when the man found ut-
terance he said, "where is my cousin An-
na?" So shocked was she to hear a familiar
voice among strangers, that she woke,
dreaming that she was sobbing upon the
bosom of this strange man from whom she
had been so many years separated; the great
clock was striking and her own maid stand-
ing over her in bewilderment, for she was
really sobbing in her sleep.


WOMANS EXPONENT.


MRS. BELLE C. JOHNSON is editor of the
Salem (Ill.) Republican.
	MISS ZELIA NUTTALL, of San Francisco,
is making her mark as an anthropologist.
Just now she is in Dresden, Germany,
where she has a fine collection of books on
Mexico. She is remarkably well-informed
in Aztec history and arts. In the last num-
ber of the “Internationales Archivfur Eth-
nographic" she publishes an illustrated
article upon the feather shields of Mexico.
In a recent visit to Florence, Italy, Miss
Nuttall discovered in the library an Aztec
manuscript with pictures. It turned out to
be a treatise upon dress and ornament, and
contains a text in Spanish. This, reprinted
in facsimile with critical notes and an
English translation, Miss Nuttall will pre-
sent at the next Congress in October.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


