	OF EMILY D. P. YOUNG.

	Continued.
	"On Friday night, November 1st, a party of
the mob proceeded to attack a branch of the
Church at the prairie, about twelve or fifteen
miles from the village.  Two of their number
were sent in advance as spies, namely, Robert
Johnson and one Harris, arrived with two
guns and three pistols. They were discovered
by some of the Saints, and without the least
injury being done them, said Johnson struck
P. P. Pratt with the breach of his gun over
the head; after which they were taken and de-
tained till morning, which, it was believe[-],
prevented a general attack of the mob that
night.  In the morning they were liberated
without receiving the least injury.  The same
night another party in Independence com-
menced stoning houses, breaking down doors
and windows, and destroying furniture, etc.
This night the brick part of the dwelling
house of A. S. Gilbert was partly pulled down
and the windows of his dwelling broken in
with brickbats and rocks, while a gentleman
stranger lay sick with a fever in kis house.
The same night three doors of the store of
Messrs. Gilbert & Whitney were split open;
and after midnight the goods lay scattered in
the street, such as calicoes, handkerchiefs
shawls, cambrics, etc.
	"An express came from the village after mid-
night to a party of their men who had embod-
ied about a half a mile from the village for
the safety of their lives, stating that a mob was
tearing down houses and scattering the goods
of the store in the streets.  The main body of
the mob fled at the appearance of this com-
pany.  (I think this company were the men who
had gathered at our house that I mentioned
before.)” The same night some of the houses
had long poles thrust through the shutters and
sashes into the rooms of defenseless women and
children, from whence their husbands and
fathers had been driven by the dastardly at-
tacks of the mob, which were made by ten, fif-
teen or twenty men at a time.
	"Saturday, Nov. 2nd, all the families of the
Saints in the village moved half a mile out,
with most of their goods, and embodied to the
number of thirty for the preservation of life
and personal effects.  This night a party from the
village met a party from the west of the Blue,
a river, and made an attack upon a branch of
the Church located at the Blue, about six miles
from the village; here they tore the
roof from on dwelling and broke open 
another house and found the owner,
David Bennett, sick in bed, whom they
beat most inhumanly, swearing they would
blow out his brains, they discharged a pistol,the
ball ot which cut a deep gash across the top of
his head.  In this skirmish a young man of the
mob was shot in the thigh, but by which party
remains yet to be determined.
	"The next day, Sunday, Nov. 3rd, four of
the Church, Joshua Lewis, Hiram Page, and
two others, were despatched for Lexington to
see the circuit judge and obtain a peace war-
rant.  Two called on Esq. Silver, who refused

[Column 2]
to issne one on account, as he has declared, of
his fears of the mob.  This day many of the citi-
zens,professing friendship,advised the Saints to
clear from the county as speedily as possible,
for Saturday night’s affray had enraged the
whole county, and they were determined to
come out on Monday and murder indiscrimi-
nately; and in short, it was proverbial among
the mob, "Monday would be a bloody day.”
	"Monday came,and a large party of the mob
gathered at the Blue, took the ferry boat be-
longing to the Church, threatened lives, etc.
But they soon abandoned the ferry and went
to Wilson’s store about a mile west of the Blue.
Word had previously gone to a branch of the
Church several miles west of the Blue that the
mob was destroying property on the east side of
the Blue,and the sufferers there wanted help to
preserve their lives and property.  Nineteen men
volunteered and started for their assistance, but
discovering fifty or sixty of the mob had gath-
ered at Wilson’s they turned back.  At this
time two small boys passed on their way to
Wilson’s, who gave information to the mobbers
that the Mormons were on the road west of
them; between forty and fifty immediately
started with guns in pursuit.  After riding
about two or two and a half miles they discov-
ered them, when the company of nineteen  im-
mediately dispersed and fled in different direc-
tions. The mob hunted for them, turning their
horses into a cornfield belonging to the Saints;
searching their cornfields and houses, threat-
ening women and children that they would pull
down their houses and kill them if they did
not tell where the men had fled.  Thus they
were employed, hunting the men and threat-
ening the women, until a company of thirty of
the Saints from the prairie, armed with seven-
teen guns, made their appearance.  The former
company of nineteen had dispersed and fled,
and but one or two bad returned to take part
in the subsequent battle.
	"On the approach of the latter company of
thirty men, some of the mob cried, "Fire, God
d—n you, fire.” Two or three guns were
then fired by the mob, which were returned by
the other party without loss of time.  This
company is the same that is represented by the
mob as having gone forth in the evening of the
battle bearing the olive branch of peace.  The
mob retreated early after the first fire, leaving
their horses in Whitmer’s cornfield;two of their
number, Hugh L. Brareal and Thomas Lin-
vill, died on the ground.  Thus fell H. L. Bra-
real, one who had been heard to say, "With
ten fellows, I will wade to my knees in blood,
but I will drive the Mormons from Jackson
Co.” The next morning the corpse of said
Brareal was discovered on the battle ground
with a gun by his side.  Several were wounded
on both sides, but none mortally, except one
Barber, on the part of the Saints, who expired
the next day. 
	"This battle was fought about sunset, Mon-
day, Nov. 4, and on the same night runners
were despatched in every direction under the
pretence of calling out the militia; spreading
as they went every rumor calculated to alarm
and excite the unwary, such as, the Mor-
mons had taken Independence, and the Indians
had surrouuded it, and they being colleagued
together, etc. 

	The same evening, Nov. 4, not being satis-
fied with breaking open the store of Gilbert &
Whitney, and demolishing a part of the dwell-
ing of said Gilbert the Friday night previous,
they permitted Mc.Carty, who was detected on
Friday night as one of the breakers of the
store doors, to take out a warrant and arrest
the said Gilbert and others of the Church for
a pretended assault, and false imprisonment of
Mc.Carty. Late in the evening, while the conrt
was in progress with their trial in the court,
house, a gentleman unconnected with the

[Column 3]
court, as was believed, perceiving the prisoners
to be without counsel and in imminent danger,
advised Gilbert and his brethren to go to jail
as the only alternative to save life, for the
north door was already barred and an infuria-
ted mob thronged the house with a determina-
tion to beat and kill; but through the interpo-
sition of this gentleman (Samuel C. Owens,
Clerk of the County Court, whose name will
appear more fully hereafter) said Gilbert and
four of his brethren were committed to the
county jail of Jackson Co., the cell of which
must have been a palace compared with the
court room, where dignity and mercy were
strangers; naught but the wrath of man in
horrid threats stifled the ears of the prisoners.


