PRIMARY, S. L. STAKE
	The Quarterly Conference convened in the
Fourteenth Ward Hall, Dec, 27, at 10 a.m.,
Mrs. Elien C. Clawson presiding. Opened by
singing "Dearest Children;" Prayer by Sister
Jennie McLean; singing, "Hope of Israel."
Minutes were read and accepted. Mrs. M.
James reported that in the Seventh Ward Pri-
mary they had what they called an emigra-
tion fund and hoped to be able to send for a
child to come to Zion very soon. Miss L. Ed-
monds said that in the Tenth Ward if the
officers were not present the children would
carry on the meetings, said it had taught her a
lesson not to postpone their meetings for any-
thing. Mrs. Clawson reported the Twelfth
Ward as improving and increasing in numbers.
Mrs. L. A. Wells reported the Thirteenth
Ward, and stated that they had a varied pro-
gramme and a complete organization.
	A song was then sung by four little girls of
the 20th Ward, entitled "God bless Papa."
Mrs. Clara Cannon of the 14th Ward said she
had been sick and not able to attend her meet-
ings of late, but was much interested in the
work and wanted to see the children improve.
A very little girl from the 20th ward recited
a piece entitled "Darling Nestlings." Mrs.
Morris, 15th Ward, said their Primary was do-
ing very well; they had a very nice party on
Thanksgiving Day, and spoke of a little orphan
girl in the ward that was a beautiful dancer,
and the children had made her a nice present.
The children sang in concert "Word of Wis-
dom."
	Mrs. Herridge gave a good report of the 16th
ward Primary, and Mrs. Toone of the 20th.
Two little girls sang, "Let us all speak kindly
to each other." Mrs. McGhie, Sugar House
Primary, told how they had taken the chil-
dren in the summer to see an old lady who was
blind, and one of the little boys bore his testi-
mony, which gave the blind woman great joy.
Mrs. Sutherland of Big Cottonwood said their
association had made a quilt, and pieced it
all themselves. The children were all very
anxious to come to their meetings. A little
girl from the 15th ward sang "Welcome, wel-
come, Sabbath morning"
	Prest. Clawson made some remarks and re-
minded the children of the Fair that would be
held next fall.
	A little girl from the 16th ward recited a
piece, "When we are standing on the thresh-
old." Two boys from the 10th ward sang,
"Rally round the flag, boys." Coun. Lydia
Ann Wells urged the children to pray in the
morning as well as the evening; said she no-
ticed that few of the presidents said amen at
the close of their remarks; told them she heard
Apostle Lyman say that every one should say


Amen at the close of remarks; made other sug
gestions.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Children sang "The Lord's Prayer." Benedic-
tion by Elder R. Horne.


