	CORCORAN ART GALLELRY.

	The Curator said he could not tell, as he
had never kept track, of the comparative at-
tendance of men and women; but they did keep
account of the number of persons who visited
the Art gallery daily.  "On cloudy or rainy
days," he said, "if my memory serves me right,
we have a greater number of ladies than gen-
tlemen in attendance; on fine and pleasant days
there is an apparent preponderance of males.
I suppose, however, they balance each other
about equally in the end.  No, I can't say I
am able to account for the more general atten-
dance of ladies on dull days, unless it is that
they do not feel as much like walking and vis-
iting outside places of attraction; but if that
were so, one would think the rule should hold
good with regard to men also; but the reverse
is the case, for they come mainly when the day
is a pleasant one.  Without wishing to speak
lightly of the art taste and art admiration of
the ladies," continued the gentleman, "I muse
state that the men show better judgement, or
taste, or whatever you may call it, in the choict
of a day to visit the gallery than the ladies do,
The success of a picture, its life—or it fidelity.
which is the same thing—depends upon the
light by which it is seen.  A cloudy day may
be calculated to help some pictures, but a vast
majority are painted for a full light, and should
be seen in such a light to be seen well.  Since
the object of viewing a painting must be for
plesaure, it seems strange that ladies (usually
so particular about enjoying the full sense of
pleasure which anything calculated to add to
the sum of human happiness can produce)
should be not only so willing to put up with
an indifferent measure in the pleasure of view-
ing pictures, but really seem to prefer the les-
ser joy.  I can't understand it, for anyone who
has seen a picture by a poor light and then be-
held it when the light was so arranged as to
bring out, every touch of the artist's genius,
must have felt within himself they were differ-

[Column 2]
ent paintings—certainly different in the high-
est degree, in the power of each to promote
pleasurable sensations through the medium of
the eye.  But, then, the ladies seem to prefer
it, bless their dear, sweet faces, and I suppose
that fact should make me happy; but somehow
I am never fully satisfied until I know the full
measure of the cup of joy has been drained by
everyone who loves art as it is shown in paint-
ing and sculpture."
	He did not mak an oration to the above ef-
fect, but he said as much in the course of some
conversation had with him while I was visiting
the Corcoran Art Gallery, on Pennsylvania
Avenue, Washingon. While it is one of the
youngest, it is also conceded to be one of the
best art galleries in the United States, and in
it are master pieces of modern art in painting
and productions from the easels of many of the
most noted of recent painters, which are so
characteristic of the authors as to give to the
attentive observer a clear idea of the peculiar
style of "individualness" of each.  Strive to
overcome the feeling however much I may, my
heart runs involuntarily to landscape painting,
so much so that I find it difficult to give a
passing glance to portrait painting, even of
characters well known and prominent in the
world's history.  Thus, were reference to the
more notable works displayed, possibly that
reference would not be an impartial one, and
consequently could not be satisfactory.  How-
ever, as each work of art is by an author who
has peculiar and distinctive charactersitics
(even though it may not be as attractive as
some others), it is nevertheless, to a very large
extent, full of interest as a study and as show-
ing the style of the artist.
	I cannot resist, however, a passing notice or
two—one of "Charlotte Corday," the other "On
the Coast of New Jersey."  The former is a
most impressive one, in a variety of ways.  It
is by Charles Louis Muller, known by his "Roll
Call" of the victims of the guillotine during
the first French Revolution.  Muller has won
three medals, was, or is, an officer of the Legion
of Honor, and a member of the Institute of
France.  I do not believe it possible that lan-
guage can be made to give expression to the
strange, the pervading, the potent feelings this
picture produced in me.  It was a fascination,
from the effect of which, though it is sometime
since seen, I have not yet recovered.  The pic-
ture shows the heroine of the Revolution in pris-
on, after the killing of the blood-thirsty Marat.
She leans wearily against the prison bars, her
head resting on one hand, while the fingers of
the other hold the pen with which she has just
been writing the most touching and noble let-
ter to her father.  Her eyes are raised to the
light and the pose of the figure conspires with
the rare expression of the face, to produce a
powerful impression of weariness and resigna-
tion.  The face is a remarkable one.  It is full
of character and determination.  A nobility
of purpose gives a radiance and glorifies it to
an extent almost incomprehensible.  And yet
it is tender and fair and sweet, so surpassingly
sweet that the heart is drawn towards it irre-
sistibly and melts into a moving sympathy,
which, while it saddens, compels admiration
and fills the hearts of those who have read her
story with high purposes and noble resolves.
Though the expression is one of weariness and
sadness unutterable, there is absolutely want-
ing the slightest tinge of regret; and no saint
ever seemed more serene in awaiting the com

[Column 3]
ing judgement which follows the dissolution of
earthly ties, than does Charlotte Corday as
Muller has divinely told her story.
	The gallery was filled with ladies the last
morning I was there—it was a dull day—and
the painting seemed to have the same fascina-
tion for all who looked upon it.  I could not
forget it if I would; I would not if I could.
	The other, "On the coast of New Jersey,"
was a surprise.  There were other picturea of
greater charm, more enchanting by far; but
this one, different as human intellect can ima-
gine from that of Corday, till possessed  the
same element of focring atention and of draw-
ing the spectator towards it with an indefinite
longing.  It produced a sensation of rest,
which one cared neither to break nor to resist.
It can hardly be called a seashore scene; it is
marine to a marvellous degree.  The foreground
shows a long, level, sandy beach, with a gen-
tle and unbroken decline into the ocean's
depths.  From the breakers to the very point
are a succession of eddies, or waves, lessening
in depth and force as they run up the beach,
till the nearest one the eye can see, glides, or
seems to glide, playfully along the silvered
sands, breaking into a myriad ripples laughing
in the sunlight, each freighted with its tiny
white air bubble.
	Away to the back, far as the eye can reach,
until the ocean and the over-arching sky seem
to mingle, the green of the ocean stretches,
growing smoother and smoother with each re-
move, until the great distance produces an end-
less and unbroken stretch of green wave, as
calm and placid to the watching eye as the
liquid depths of a summer sky.  Far in the dis-
tance a solitary white sail is seen, nearer a lone
sea gull skims over the breakers.  Save these,
there is not a thing, animate or inanimate, but
the endless width of wave and sea.  And yet
it is marvellously full of interest; it excites ad-
miration; the eye loves to linger on it, and all
the while a soft and insinuating sense of soli-
tude and rest permeates the whole being.  It
is a marvellous work.  It is by W. S. Rich-
ards, who, while he had devoted his rare talents
to landscape painting for some years, ultimate-
ly found that his genius lay in the handling of
marine subjects.
	There are any number of others which one
could love to dwell upon and find pleasure and
satisfaction in such a crude, uncomely and im-
perfect description as the above; but life is too
short, and the number all too great.  To go to
Washington, however, and not visit the Corco-
ran Art Gallery, is to wrong oneself.
	There are deparments for sculpture, con-
taining original casts and copies of the most
renowned pieces of art, ancient and modern.
magnificent porcelain vases, lacquered, bas re-
liefs, bronze statues and bronze in various
forms, framents of marble figures, and other
things coming properly within the scope of a
first class art gallery.
	The Coreoran Gallery of Art, including
grounds, building, its contents and endowment
given is the free gift of Mr. W. W. Coreoran to
the public.  It was deeded to a board of trus-
tees May 10, 1869, the deed stating that it was
designed for the encouragement of the fine arts,
and "as the perpetual establishment and en-
couragement of painting, sculpture and the
fine arts generaly; that it should be opened to
visitors without charge two days a week, and
on other days at moderate and reasonable
charges, etc."  The institution was chartered


by Congress May 24, 1870, and declared
exempt from rent.
	January 19, 1874, it was opened, or that
portion of it embracing the Picture Galleries,
Octagon Room, and the Hall of Bronzes.  April
29, 1874, the Halls of Sculpture and Bronzes
were opened, and in Dec. of the same year two
side galleries of sculpture were also opened.
	The gallery is now opened free three days a
week, and three days an admission fee of 25 cts
is charged.	R.


