	WASHINGTON, Jan. 1, 1885.
EDITOR EXPONENT:  	
	“An important step—one which will exeite
considerable interest in as well as out of the
medical profession—has been resolved upon by
the Columbian University of Washington city.
At a special meeting of the board of officers of
that institution, upon the unanimous recom-
mendation of the faculty of its medical de-
partment, they decided to admit women to the
study of medicine in the university, with all
the privileges of instruction in that branch of
education now accorded male students. This
action, it is stated, is due in a large measure to
the earnest and persistent efforts of a number
of ladies who have attended the medical lec-
tures since the beginning of the current schol-
astic term, one of whom is the daughter of a
celebrated physician of Washington. Two

[Column 2]
others are of the faculty of a well known female
seminary. The unanimity of the faculty of
the medical department in recommending this
innovation is noticeable, and evidences that the
profession of this city recognize the demands of
public opinion in this direction.”
	The following brief editorial comment from
the Washington Post on the action of the fac-
ulty, is pertinent; but as showing the approba-
tion with which that action is meeting, and on
account of the ever-widening sentiment that all
other things being equal, women should enjoy
every privilege which is an inheritance of
men.
	“The action of the trustees of the Colum-
bian University of this city in opening the
medical department of that institution to
women students as well as men is to be com-
mended. It is following in the line of pro-
gress which leads to a fuller emancipation of
womanhood from unnatural and oppressive
restraints, opens the way to an avocation for
the successful pursuits of which in many of its
branches the sex is peculiarly well-fitted, and
thrusts aside another of the antiquated preju-
dices which have so long shut in its face the
doors of professional life. Wherever the in-
novation has been made the results are bene-
ficent. It will not be many years before the
justice of the principle and the wisdom of its
practice will be universally acknowledged.”
	“Columbia University, it appears, is but fol-
lowing in the steps of Howard University,
which has thrown, its doors open to female stu-
dents since 1869. The first female physician
ever graduated in the District of Columbia
was Dr. Mary D. Spackman in 1872. Dr.
Mary A. Parsons, of Colebrook, N. H., fol-
lowed in 1874, and in 1877, Francis S. Hillyer,
Grace Roberts, and Eunice P. Shadd, the last
named colored, were given diplomas. Mary
E. Hart, Juliet G. Shearer, Anna W. Mc.Cor-
mick, Mary L. Wooster, and Nannie Stafford,
the last a colored resident of Elizabeth, N. J.,
were the later graduates. There are now six
female students and eleven colored men in the
medical classes," showing the cosmopolitan and
Catholic custom which now prevails in educa-
tional matters. It is also indicative of the
spirit that is at work everywhere and which
must result, ultimately, in opening to woman
every avenue for emyloyment that man enjoys ,
and every distinction and honor—political, so-
cial or educational—which superiority in these
directions and in the battle of life may justly
entitle her to. It is a little strange that people
must ever be educated to giving justice to their
fellow creatures who have been held by custom
in what may have been considered a subordi-
nate sphere; but it is nevertheless true. It
seems such a palpable, such a self-evident
proposition that woman should enjoy every-
thing that the same talents possessed by man
would win for him,  A man should be
ashamed to take advantage of the base customs
prevailing to retain himself in position and
power, lest it might be wrested from him by a
woman. If man were what that word should
imply, he would be too proud, too manly to de-
ny to woman an equal chance iu all spheres,
and let the better and the more talented prove
victorious.
	The old fol-de-rol, clap trap chatter about
superiority of the male sex is falling into such
ignoble repute that a man who pretends to
be fair, or just, or to possess any breadth of
thought, dare not advance it. Only the ignor-
ant creature,who is coward enough to abuse his
wife, makes use longer of that assertion—
which, at one time, or for some unaccountable
reason, was actually called an “argument.”
Nor is there a less rapid decrease in the num-
ber of those who, as an irrefutable argument,
point to the fact that so few women have been
distinguished for learning, or in other direc

[Column 3]
tions once considered exclusively masculine,
walks,.as placing them in an invulnerable posi-
tion, from which they may perpetually shout
“Woman, as we have shown, is intellectually
incapacitated by nature for competition with
men in the pursuits of life.” If incapacitated
by nature, why fear competition? That very
declaration, broad and bold as it appears to be,
is the certain and unmistakable evidence that
men do fear, and are unmanly enough to let
that fear force them into the ignoble attitude
of employing the strong arm of existing power
to keep women out of the ranks of competi-
tion.
	I am not one of those who run wild on the
woman question; and I must say there are
some things I view with much more patience
than a lot of women gathering together for the
ostensible purpose of arousing women, but who
do little else than abuse men and the existing
ways of men. There must be something better
and more ennobling in the woman suffrage
cause than this; and this being true, for heav-
en’s sake let woman be true to herself, and
show that she is worthy her own cause, that she
seeks the bettering of her race, the elevation
of her own sex, and that advocacy of these
ideas docs not necessarily involve a perpetual
abuse of men.
	If woman wants to vote, and has all the
qualifications that are required of man, then
let her vote; If there is any position on earth
to which she aspires, and by using the same
means that men employ she can gratify that
ambition, then let her secure it; but for her
own sake let her drop this incessant, intermin-
able and absolutely useless crying about men’s
tyranny, domineering, and what not.
	On the 20th of this month the women hold
a national convention here, when a number of
the most noted of the sex—politically and
otherwise—will hold forth and discuss the wo-
man’s suffrage situation. When that event
transpires there may be something of interest
to tell your readers.
	If the Washington ladies are not remarkable
for the percentage of beauties to the female
population, they are remarkable for the neat-
ness, the surpassing neatness of their we ring
apparel. They always look lovely.
	Bangles, bracelets are the rage, to the dis-
carding of the old fashioned ones—one for each
arm, and both alike. A lady will wear two
or three on one arm. Diamond earrings,
diamond finger rings, diamond bracelets and
diamond pins abound. They are worn on the
street, in the house, and everywhere. A sin-
gle bud or a few flowers is not sufficient;a nese-
gay of enormous size, such as ladies would
consider ordinarily as out of all proportion for
a hand bouquet, are now worn midway be-
tween the waist and bosom. They are not ar-
tificial, but made up mainly of tea roses. On
a fine day Pennsylvania Avenue is literally
crowded with ladies splendidly attired, and a
majority of them adorned with the bouquets
referred to above. The avenue, for square
after square, is filled with that delightful, per-
vading and insinuating odor peculiar to tea
roses.
	Everything in the upper classes is on wheels,
reception parties and calls, to which some men
submit with becoming grace, and which are the
delight of that “fashionable dude,” by courtesy
called the young gentleman of society.
