	MILL CREEK WARD.
	Our associatton was re-organized August 13,
1884, by Bishop J. C. Hamilton and Counsel-
ors, and Patriarch Alexander Hill, with the
following named officers: Elizabeth Hill,
Prest.; Ann Lemmon and Elizabeth Snedaker,
Counselors; Francis H. Hanson, Secretary;
Araminta North, Treasurer; Albertina J. North,
Asst. Sec. and Treasurer. Mary A. Hamilton,
Janet Park and Ann Morgan, as Directors of
the grain association. There are ninety officers
and members enrolled.
	It was thought advisable to sell the old
wheat and replace it with new wheat; the bin
has been moved to the Bishop's, as a more cen-
tral location for the accomodation of the sisters.
It was done by several of the brethren and
their teams, under the management of our
Bishop. Cash received for wheat sold; $375.-
75; wheat sold, 417 bushels, 29 pounds; bought
in, 507 bushels, 18 pounds; showing an increase
of $89.49; 31 bushels, 38 pounds received by
donation, making a total of 538 bushels, 51
pounds of wheat in teh bin. We have reoeived
very efficient aid from Bro. G. Bailey, clerk of
the ward, for which we return many thanks,
also to any who have assisted in any of the
arrangements.
	Our late respected Bishop, Reuben Miller,
wished the society to make a donation of $200
for the Salt Lake Temple; our last report shows
we have on hand $128.80 of that amount.
	We can report our association to be in a
prosperous condition. The President and her
Counselors are faithful and united in promot-
ing the advancement of the society. The
teachers are alive to their duties; the poor and 
sick are cared for; all calls are cheerfully re-
sponded to. The Bishop and his Counselors
often meet with us, giving good instructions
and words of encouragement. Sister Ara-

[Column 2]
minta E. Hanson and Sister Sarah Waters
have been called by the society to study ob-
stetrics. The ward is greatly in need of sisters
proficient in that branch of science. As a band
of sisters we are trying to do the best we can.
	At our meeting of Dec. 9th, we were visited
by Prest. M. I. Horne, Sisters E. S. Taylor,
H. M. Whitney B. W. Smith and E. Howard,
who addressed the assembly; their instructions
were of a very encouraging nature, and they
thought we were blessed indeed to have the
Bishop and his Counselors and other brethren
take so much interest. Said the Mormon
women had a great work to do; enjoined upon
all the necessity of instructing their children;
spoke upon the principle of plural marriage,
and advised all to sustain the principle; honor
the Priesthood and help to carry out the laws
of God. Were pleased that the Bishop en-
couraged the parents to attend the Young
Ladies' meetings. The Bishop and Counselors
expressed themselves well pleased with the in-
structions from the sisters, and made some very
gook remarks.
	It was a meeting long to be remembered, and
the sisters hope for many more of the same
kind.	ELIZABETH HILL President,
