THE DISTINGUISHED DEAD OF 1884.

     "Of the multitude who have gone over to the
majority during the past year there are the
usual number of prominent characters in state
and church, literature and the professions.  The
eloquence of Wendall Phillips has been stilled
before the silver tongue had lost its magic
power, and with him his fellow philanthropists,
Herr Lasker, the German Liberal, and Kes-
hub Chunder Sen., the remarkable East Indian
promoter of the Brahmo-Somaj.  Of public
men in active life this country loses Secre-
tary Folger, Senator Anthony, ex-Secretary
Hunt (minister to Russia) Judge Noah Swayne,
Augustus Schell, John J. Sisco, and President 
John W. Garrett, of the Baltimore and Ohio
road.  Of an older generation were Charles
O'Conor, the once famous jurist, J. Watson
Webb, Royal Phelps, all of New York; Reuben
R Springer, of Cincinnati, The more promi-
nent journalists of the lists are Thomas Chenery,
editor of the London Times: Thomas Kinsella,
of the Brooklyn Eagle; George W. Danielson,
of the Providence Journal; Wilbur F. Storey,
of the Chicago Times; Dr. Sanford D. Hunt, of
the Newark Advertiser; Gen. James Watson
Webb, ex-editor of the New York Courier and
Inquirer, and with these may be included Isaac
Henderson, F.J. Ottarson, Thomas Maguire,
Mary Clemmer, Jane G. Swisshelm and Mrs.
Anna Ottendoffer.  The most noted name in
literature is that of Charles Reade, who will be
remembered long after the world has forgetten
that an English Prince named Leopold died
about the same time.  Of eminent clergymen,
Bishop Simpson, Bishop Clarkson, of Nebraska;
Bishop Kavanack, of the Methodist Episcopal
church South; Bishop Wiley, Chinese mission-
ary; the Rev. Lawrence Walsh, of Rhode Island,
treasurer of the land league, and the Rev.
Henry Morgan, of Boston.  Other names not
to be overlooked are those of Eugene Rouher,
French statesman; Bastien Lepalge, Gen. Tod-
leben, of Russia; Midhat Pasha, Judah P. Ben-
jamin, Sir Bartle Frere, Samuel Ward, Wil-
liam Anson Wood, Henry C. Work, Mrs. Far-
ragut, Brignoli, Maria Taglioni, Cetewayo,
Hans Makart, Fanny Elssler, Charles Eenno
Hoflman, Profs.  Packard and Williams, of
Yale; Abbott, of Harvard, and Guyot, of
Princeton, and Taylor, of Andover; Commodore
Hunt, Gen. Weitzel, and not least the Russian
banker, von Stieglitz, worth &76,000,000."


"Whatever I know," wrote Frederick Deni-
son Maurice in 1840 to his wife, "except as to
its outward expression, has come to me much
more from women than men; I am certain they
have taught me the deepest wisdom."
     "A benevolent lady in New York runs a home
especially for cash girls.  She began two years
ago in a little parlor with five or six girls, and
has since so enlarged her work that in the last 
year she entertained and assisted 2,500 chil-
dren and young sales-girls."


