NOTES AND NEWS.

	Mrs Matilda Joslyn Gage lately addressed
the "Political Equality Club, of Albany," N.
Y.
	"Mrs. Julia Ward Howe has a furnished
house assigned to her at New Orleans, by the
Committee of the Exhibit."
	A Scotch colony consisting of about 2,000
persons is now being organized to go to Los
Angeles, Cal.
	Mrs. Helen M. Gougar has been speaking in
Wisconsin since her return from Iowa, and will
continue until the end of the month.
	Mrs. Helen Jackson has gone to Los Angeles
for the winter. Her story "Ramona" is every-
where recognized as a notable achievement in
literature.
	Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball started the Western
Reserve School of Design, in Cleveland, O. It
was founded for women, but several young men
have been admitted.
	Mrs. Mary L. Leonard has been admitted to
practice in the courts of Washington Territory,
and is said to be the first woman who has pur-
sued the study of law in the Northwest.
	The eightieth birthday of Mrs. Mary
Thompson Willard was celebrated recently by
Miss Frances E. Willard and Mrs. Mary B.
Willard, her daughter and daughter-in-law,
who gave a reception in her honor. "Her chil-
dren rise up and call her blessed."
	The friends of Oliver Johnson, the well
known abolitionist, gave him a reception at
New York the fifth inst., on the seventy-fifth
anniversary of his birth. Several hundred in-
vitations were sent out; among others, to
John G. Whittier, Rev. Samuel May, William
Lloyd Garrison, and others, of Boston and vi-
cinity.
	Miss Kate Field has become the possessor
of a perfect copy of the first edition of the
Book of Mormon, published at Palmyra, in
New York, in 1830. Its title page announces
Joseph Smith as "author and proprietor" of the
book, held to be the word of God. Later edi-
tions omit this statement.—Inter Ocean.
	The Married Women's Property Rights Law
of Vermont was secured by the persevering,
noble effort of Ron. H. C. Ide, senator from
Caledonia Co. A bill similar to the new law
was introduced into the Vermont Senate by
this gentleman two years ago, passed that body
but was lost in the House. This year the bill
was again introduced by Senator Ide, and has
become a law.
	The active opponents of women meddling in
politics (such as write us to-day on the women's
influence in our city election) must begin to
feel like Mrs. Partington on the sea beach in
a flood ride rising on a northeast gale, on read-
ing in the morning news that in Germany, of
all enlightened countries under the sun, Bis-
marck, of all the politicians in that country, is
invoking the aid of the women to operate upon
public opinion and public affairs. If in Ger-
many, where they still harness a woman and a
horse or a dog together to a cart. and in the
highest circles expect her to keep silent and
mind her knitting when men are talking, the
greatest political bully of all Christendom calls
on women to come into politics and help him,
what shall not come to pass in woman-ridden
America?—Boston Transcript.


