	SALT LAKE STAKE.
	The Quaterly Conference of the Relief So-
ciety of the Salt Lake Stake was held in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, Dec. 26,
1884, commencing at 10 a.m., Mrs. M. I. Horne
presiding. Opened by singing, "Know this
that every soul is free," etc.; Prayer by Coun.
E. S. Taylor; Singing, "The time is far spent."
Minutes of May Conference were read by Mrs.
E. B. Wells and accepted; roll of presidents
called, after which the wards were represented
verbally as follows: First Ward, Coun. Margar-
et Steele; Second, Coun. McGregor; Third,
Prest. E. Wiler, Fourth, Teacher Mary Ann
Hadley; Fifth, no report; Sixth, Prest. Rhoda
Fullmer; Seventh, Prest. Mary Alice Lambert;
Eighth, Prest. E. B. Fletcher; Ninth, Prest.
Sarah Groo; Tenth, Teacher Elizabeth Paul;
Eleventh, Coun. Jane Lawson; Twelfth, Prest.
Julia Druce; Thirteenth, Prest. Rachel Grant;
Fourteenth, Prest. Agnes Shwartz; Fifteenth,
Teacher Mary Grey, Sixteenth, Coun. Fisher;
Seventeenth, Secretary Lydia Alder; Eigh-
teenth, no report; Nineteenth,  Prest. Rachel
Whipple; Twentieth, Coun. Owens; Twenty-first
Teacher Mary Davis; Farmer's Ward, Prest.
Emma Woodruff; Brighton, Sec. Agnes Jones;
Riverton, Jane Silcox.
	Prest Horne made some suggestions to the
officers of the several branches, and gave some
instructions to teachers; thought their calling a
very important one and urged them to carry
with them the Spirit of God to discern light
from darkness. Spoke of the storing of wheat
and entreated the sisters to avail themselves of
these abundant years of plenty and store up
grain against a day of need. After many good
remarks calculated to interest and strengthen
the faith of those engaged in labora of either
a spiritual or temporal nature.
	The meeting adjourned until 2 p.m., sang
Doxology, dismissed with prayer by E. B.
Wells.
	Afternoon session, 2 p.m. opened with sing-
ing, "How often in sweet meditation;" Prayer
by Mrs. Sarah M. Ktmball; singing, "Mid
scenes of confusion." Mrs. E. B. Wells read
minutes of September Conference, which were
approved. Prest. Horne called officers from
various country wards. North Jordan Ward
was reported by Coun. Mary Bennion; Sister
Cooper, West Jordan; Sugar House, by one
of the members.
	Coun. E. S. Taylor in the course of her re-
marks said: It is thought women are not good


[Column 1]

financiers, but it seems those associated in the
Relief Society have done a great deal, and with
small means; and said much more in regard to
their building, taking care of the poor and the
sick. Also alluded to the increase of our
numbers, not only by emigration, but through
the offspring of the Latter-day Saints. Spoke
of the opposition to our labors and that preju-
dice against women's organizations was gradu-
ally wearing away; and said many other good
things.
	Sister P. L. Kimball alluded to the remark-
able events now transpiring, the fulfilment of
prophecies, and the beautiful manifestations that
had been received by those laboring in the Lo-
gan Temple for the redemption of their dead.
She had visited several of the settlements
North and met with the sisters in their meet-
ings, found them doing an active work in their
local organizations. Spoke of the way in
which woman had been considered in past ages
and of the opportunities for knowledge and ad-
vancement she enjoyed to-day.
	Sister Sarah M. Kimball in the course of her
remarks said, the sisters are increasing in faith
and in the ability to handle means and this is
favorable; for if we are faithful over a few
things we have the promise of more, and we
have proven that the blessing of God has been
upon the Relief Society. It had a small be-
ginning and we had much to humiliate us, but
thank God for the degree of standing we have
attained and for success in our endeavors.
	Spoke of the tact necessary to bestow help upon
those in need without hurting them; thought
all these things required wisdom.
	Sister B. W. Smith thought the times would
grow better and that the saints would be more
happy; we ought to be wise, watchful, prayer-
ful, and if we had to contend for our rights we
would appreciate them all the more.
	Sister Sarah J. Cannon spoke of her desire to
do whatever the could to aid in the great work
the sisters were doing; she felt that it was a
good place to be instructed, and those that
came there ought to do something more than
just to be represented. She enjoyed meeting
with her sisters and was determined to perse-
vere.
	Sister E. B. Wells spoke of her desire to
make more rapid progress in the new year and
to do better; had made many new resolves;
thought we ought to be specially kind to for-
eigners and all new comers, and made other
remarks upon the present condition of affairs
here.
	Prest. Horne presented some business mat-
ters and spoke of the great blessing it is to ob-
tain knowledge of the things of God. Encour-
aged the sisters in good works; urged them to
attend to their duties in the Relief Society and
prayed God to bless them.
	Dr. E. S. Barney having been called to the
stand, said she had been devoting the most of
her time for the last four months in searching
genealogical records in the Historian's Office for
the names of Stevens, it being her father's
name; she was gathering all she could find on
both continents, expecting to have those of
that name assist in doing the work for the
dead when the record is completed. It is in
accordance to Scripture to perform ordinances
for the dead. It is this that the saints are
building temples for. Of course we will have
to get together our records and be diligent in
getting them before they are destroyed by fires
and calamities of different kinds that are sure
to come upon the nations. Prest. Richards has
kindly proffered a gratutious access to his gen-
ealogical library in the Historian's Office for
the saints. He has published also a list of re-
cords of families in the Deseret News, but
many names are found in the Index of those
families that are associated with them by
intermarrying that he could not publish, but

[Column 2]

they can be found by taking sufficient time.
Work of this kind cannot be done in a hurry,
but time must be given to it, as one would if
studying arithmetic. When these records are
compiled then each can refer to the record of
his own name and lineage and work from
them, then it can easily be seen what is fin-
ished. All of that name, though different fam-
ilies, will run back into the one family. This
will save a great deal of trouble and confusion.
We should keep our records. She knew of
families that do not keep a record of the birth
of their own children. She heard a letter read
from a poor family of ten in the old country,
and they were in a state of great destitution;
but we are here where there is no lack but an
abundance. Organization as we have it here is
beautiful; united we stand: divided we fall.
When we hear the reports read of the many
thousands of children under eight years of age,
it seems as though Zion was growing and the
blessings of life and health are with us.  When 
we were but a handful, driven from our homes,
living in sod houses on the hillside to protect
us from the cold of winter, instead of using
our tallow candles to make our hut cheerful,
we were thankful if we had one to grease our
frying pans with, our food, though coarse, our
fare, though hard, we enjoyed with a relish
and peace that God only gives, and we can tell
the world with all their apposing influence
that we know on whom we lean.

