THE DAY IN WHICH WE LIVE.

	Any one who pauses in the steady treadmill
of life to reflect for one moment must come to
the conclusion that this is an eventful period of
time.  Earthquakes, wars, accidents of all kinds,
disturbances of the elements of nature on the
land and on the sea—all these things,and others
combined, to the p ophetic mind portend some
still greater manifestation or culmination at no
distant time in the unknown future. Those
who read the Scriptures, particularly those in-
spirational books, Isaiah, Jeremiah and Malachi,
have the interpretation of the day and age in
which we live unfolded before them as clearly
as one can see his own face in a mirror. Those
who shut their eyes and harden their hearts may
not see and understand these things, but they
will awaken one day to the full reality.
	Many are disposed to meet you with such
reasonings as these: “O it is only a repetition of
past history, and there have always been wars
and desolation and famine and oppression, and
therefore time will continue to run its course,
and there is nothing greater to be expected than
what has been.”
	The Latter-day Saint knows better, and can-
not help seeing how ominous are these signs of
the last days that are now transpiring before the
very eyes of those who are taking an active
part in the great drama that is only the prelude
to the tragedy that will follow, in which all na-
tions and kingdoms that exist will have a promi-
nent part.
	One of the p[-]edictions of the Apostles in re-
gard to the signs of the times, was, that knowl-
edge should increase in the earth; this is cer-
tainly coming to pass now.  There never was a
time when knowledge and science had reached
the height it has in the present day.  Every day
some new truth is developed that will advance
man still further towards that which it
seems to be his ambition to attain to, viz.,
a knowledge of all things in heaven and on
earth. But God has set bounds that man in 
his pride and glory cannot circumvent. 
	The recent earthquakes in S[-]a[-]n and the sub-
marine roarings in the Atlantic have set some
people thinking of the possible an[-] prob b[-]e de-
struction of that old country, where in former
days the Inquisition flourished, striking terror to
all hearts.  The record of its cruelty is, perhaps,
unsurpassed in history.  Italy, too, has a history
almost as terrible in this respect, and la belle
France is not far behind.  Who can read the
history of these countries and not feel that judg-
ments must await them.
	T[-]e Scriptures say the earth shall reel to and
fro like a drunken man, and men’s hearts shall
fail them for fear, and so on.  That cities and
even countries will be sunk in the sea is some-
thing that may be looked for with certainty in
 ulfillment of prophecy.  To be prepared for the

[Column 2]
great events that are transpiring and about to
take place in the earth,is what is most necessary 
for those who are now living, for it will be a
terrible ordeal to pass through with those who
are living on the earth when these things come 
to pass.
	Even now the newspapers are so full of
horrors,that one’s nerves want bracing to be able
to read the accounts of fires, murders, suicides, 
and other horrors with which the columns are
filled.	
	The present condition of America,“the land of
the free and the home of the brave,” is not so
pleasant to gaze upon, as the anticipations of her
people would fain have imagined, for the Con-
stitution, once the pride and boast of her sons
and daughters, seems to be trampled upon by
those whose duty it is to uphold it. Many think
now that a new admistration under a democratic 
President will turn the tide of affairs and “every
wrong will be righted,"but time will prove. It is
devoutly to be hoped for, but not to be expected
judging from the past history of that party. 
	In Utah there may be some little hope from a
change of officials, at least it will afford time for
people to catch their breath. However, it gives
one pleasure to be able to chronicle a decision of
any kind in the Federal Courts fovorable to the 
people here, or that portion of them who have 
made this part of the United States habitable.
Judge Zane in his decision rendered on the 
Seventh Ward school question did himself great
credit. Looking all the ground over rationally 
one could not but reach the same conclusion
that Judge Zane did, if testimony were taken as
evidence, but this people have so often had ad- 
verse decisions given in cases where the testi- 
mony was as clear as day light in their favor,
that it is no wonder it took some people a little
by surprise when that decision was given.
	There are some important decisions yet to be
given that this people are wa ching with the
greatest interest; not that it will effect in the 
least the principlss they hold, or the opinions
expressed, but it will decide some matters more
important than the lives and practices of pri-
vate individuals. The fate of this nation depends
greatly upon whether it will sustain and main-
tain the principle of religious liberty and freedom
not only in thought or belief, but in actual
practice. God gave the constitution of this
country by inspiration, and He put it into the
hearts of the forefathers of this blessed country
to make the provision they did for securing re-
ligious liberty, which is not merely an idea, but
a fact and a principle, from which man cannot
depart without involving fearful consequences.


[Column 1]
