PROFESSIONAL TRAVELS.

	Mrs. Margaret C. Shipp, M. D., has recently
returned from rather an extended and interest-
ing professional trip through Northern Utah,
parts of Wyoming and Idaho. Leaving this
city September 25th, the Dr. visited Coalville,
Grass Creek and Wanship, then returned home
to attend O[-]tober Conference. Immediately
after conference, resuming her labors in this di-
rection, she visited Morgan, Evanston, Almy,
Woodruff, Randolph, Laketown, St. Charles, 
Bloomington, Paris and Montpelier. In each
of the places mentioned she lectured to the ladies
upon those special subjects that interest women
so greatly. At St. Charles the Dr. says she had
the pleasure of meeting Mrs. Nancy Pugmire, a
daughter of the late Apostle C. C. R ch, and
President of the Y. L M. I. A. of Bear Lake
Stake, over which she presides with dignity and
rejoices in her work. She proposed to call
meetings in the different towns of the Stake,
and by her invitation she visited, in company
with President Pugmire, the Associations of St.
Charles, Bloomington and Paris. Their associa-
tions have a large membership and its members
are active and spirited in their work. At Mont-
pelier she took the Oregon Short Line to the
Junction of the Utah Northern, visiting Cache
Valley on her return home. She lectured at
Providence, Millville, Hyrum, Paradise, Wells-
ville and Logan. She remained at Logan three
weeks and several sisters followed her home
from different parts of Cache County, to place
themselves under her treatment. Dr Shipp says
in her trip of twelve weeks and a half she was 
kept constantly very busy lecturing and treating
uterine diseases. At each place she informs us
she spoke very highly of and always recom-
mended patients desiring treatment to the
Deseret Hospital.
	Dr. Shipp intends giving lectures in the sever-
al wards of the city by invitation of the Y. L.
M. I. A. On Wednesday evening, Jan. 7[-]h, she
gave an excellent lecture  under ths auspices of
the Young Ladies' Association, giving season-
able and logical advice and suggestion, as well
as scientific facts and results of investigations
by the most learned men and women of the
medical profession. Dr. Shipp i[-] a very pleas-
ing speaker, and she has some pertinent truths 
to impart to young women, and especial[-]y to 
young mothers.


