	HOME AFFAIRS.

	We acknowledge with thanks the receipt of
several interesting documents from Washington,
by the courtesy of our delegate; "Message of the
[----] the United States," "Report of the
Utah Commission," and "Special report of the
Utah Commission to the Secretary of the Inte-
r[-]," speech of Hon. Joseph E. Brown of
Georgia, delivered in the Senate of the United
States, May 27th, 1884, entitled, "Polygamy in
Utah and New England contrasted."
	We learn from Mrs. M A. Freeze, who at-
tended the lecture given under the auspices of
the Y. L. M. I. A. in the Seventh Ward, by Dr.
Margaret C. Shipp, that the subject treated up-
on in  her lecture was one that shoul[-] interest
all young women. She ought to b[-] invited to
give her lectures to women only, in each of the
several wards.  It would be a great benefit if
the girls and young women were better and
more thoroughly instructed in the matters
which pertian to their life and health, and to
maternity.

[Column 2]
	From the Juvenile Instructor Office we have
received recently a pamphlet, entitled, "Blood-
Atonement."  An address delivered in the
Twelfth Ward Assembly Rooms, Salt Lake City,
October 12th, 1884, by Elder Charles W. Pen-
rose, and reported stenographically by John
Irvine. The enemies of the Latter-day Saints
have had a great deal to say upon this subject,
and have published the most wicked accusations
against leading men in the Church, willfully ac-
cusing them of the vilest and foulest deeds,
whereas the belief of this people is diametrical-
ly opposed to the shedding of blood.  To all peo-
ple seeking information on this subject we
would recommend this little book. Price 25 cts.
It is a direct and complete refutation of the
malicious calumnics used to destroy the charac-
ters of the Latter day Saints.
	Two handsome pictures hang on our walls re-
ceived from the large mercantile firm of Z. C.
M. I.  They have been prepared expressly as a
decorative advertisement, and certainly are
artistic in design and coloring.  Each has a
calendar so on each day in the month and each
month in the year when one refers to the calen-
dar on the wall, one is reminded of the whole-
sale and retail establishments of Z. C. M. I.,
where they can always purchase the best quality
of all varieties of goods at the most reasonable
rates.  Ladies can buy there fancy as well as
staple groceries, glass, china and silver ware.
Fancy dress goods in all styles, ribbons, scarfs, 
shawls, laces, gloves, hosiery, shoes of the best
quality.  A room has been fitted up where a lady
can feel perfectly comfortable to try a shoe on.
There have been a number of desirable changes
made in the inside arrangement of goods during
the past year, and a decided improvement is the
result.  Everybody trades at Z. C. M. I.  They
carry the largest stock of goods of any wholesale
house in the Western Interior.
	Mrs. Priscilla M. Staines of this city recently
sent to England an elegant piano scarf embroid-
ered by her own hands, that was exhibited at
the Ladies Fair in London during the holiday
season, and mentioned in the London papers,
and it was greatly admired there, and some
of the ladies stated that it was handsome
enough to exhibit for charity.  It was an elabor-
ate and artistic piece of handiwork.  The ma-
terial was very fine, wine colored satin finished
at the ends with plush of the same color.  It
was embroidered at one end in  pincushion cac-
tus, cream color, the pattern very natural indeed
as if you could pluck them; among other flowers,
at the other end, Scotch Thistles;  the most per-
fect you could posibly imagine.  The middle
part was worked in waterlilies with roses, very
natural, and the most beautiful pansies; in the
centre was a lovely spray of wild roses, as if it
was a bouquet laid on.  It was the most exquis-
ite article of needle work we have seen.  Those
who think nothing good can come out of Utah 
ought to see Mrs. Staines' needle work, for in
her idea and execution of fancy work she is
second to none.  Daeca silk, split chenille,
arasene and floselle, were the materials used in
the work.
	With the Phrenological Journal for January
we received a very elaborate colored chart.  A
symbolical head with all the "bumps" marked
giving names and descriptions.  It is quite a
work of art, each characteristic being noted
with a minature picture descriptive of the at-
tribute.  It is an ingenious design, and one from
which much may be learned.  The magazine
this year celebrates its fiftieth year.  The Jour-
nal contains woodcuts of many distinguished
men in the profession of phrenology.  Joseph
Francis Call, who promulgated the doctrine in
1757, and announced it publicly in Vienna 90
years ago.  His associate, John Gasper Spruz
hiem of Prussia, and George Combe of Edinburgh.


These pictures are followed by Prof. O. L.
Fowler's, his brother, L. N. Fowler, his sister,
Charlotte Fowler Wells, her late husband, Prof.
S. R. Wells, then Nahum Capen L. L. D. and
Nelson Siz[-]r.  These last are well and favor-
ably known to the world as able expounders of
the now well recognized science of Phrenology.
There are other pictures of noted men, famous
buildings, etc. It is a more than usually inter-
esting number, containing a brief history of the
Journal itself, sketches of its editors, and so on;
"Phenomena of Immortality," by John Waugh,
"The Great Cotton Centennial," with illustra-
tions and other instructive articles. It is one of
the best magazines in the world.
	We have also to thank the publishing house
of Fowler and Wells for another very entertain-
ing and useful book, entitled, "The Fallacies in
Progress and Poverty." The book is by William
Hanson- Price $100. It is a review of Henry
George's "Progress and Poverty," Henry Dun-
ning Macleod's "Economics" and other works
on protection, free trade, the industrial problem,
etcetera.


