EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thanks, many, for the Xmas gift you sent me, 
"Woman's Place To-day," by Lillie Dovereux
Blake, containing four lectures in reply to the 
Lenten Lectures on "Woman," by the Rev-
Morgan Dix D. D., I have read it with much 
pleasure and information. She has answered 
his arguments and wonderful assertions in such 
a clear, truthful and erudite manner that if he
does not respond to them all must decide he 
considers them unanswerable; she asserts
nothing but what every candid mind must en-
dorse as truth, which all may see, know and un-
derstand, if they hold their minds open to con-
viction. 
	The determination in men not to see what 
really belongs to woman's true position, is verily
a problem, for it would seem their own knowl-
edge and daily observation must tell them how 
necessary, how important it is that she should
be a cultured, well educated being, that she be
able to inform the minds of her children from 
their earliest earth-life, and, indeed, know 
enough to understand how to educate the ante-
natal existence; at this point the intelligence of 
motherhood should commence, and it is a sub-
lime study, in which the young female mind
should be instructed as an imperative portion of 
her early training. 
	I often feel, when ignorance seems to over-
whelm me, and there seems so much to learn, 
that we scarce know how to live till we are un-
der the necessity of dying! Dr. D[-]x, with all 
his collegiate education, must have become a 
fossilized being, belonging to several past ages, 
surely he admires Emerson, the poet and philoso-
pher of America, let him hear what he says:
	"A certain awakened consciousness of in-
feriority in the men may have given rise to the
new chivalry in behalf of 'woman's rights.'
Certainly, let her be a[-] much better placed in 
the laws and in social forms as the most zealous
reformer can ask, but I confide so entirely in 
her inspiring, musical nature, that I believe
only herself can show us how she shall be served. 
The wonderful generosity of her sentiments
raises her at times into heroic and God-like re-
gions, and verifies the pictures of Minerva, 
Juno and others; by the firmness by which she 
treads her upward path, and she convinces the 
coarsest calculators that another road exists, 
than that which their feet knows."
	I would like to go on, for that which follows is 
so truly beautiful, realizing all that the heart of 
woman looks for in man, that there ought to be 

[Column 2]
a continual reiteration of it, especially in such 
ears and understandings as the Rector of Trin-
ity seems to possess; Emerson was a spiritual 
expounder of laws, receiving his ordination direct
from the chancery of heaven, hence he is cra[-]u-
ler. It is a problem yet to be solved, why man 
has so tenaciously struggled to subordinate
woman! It must arise from an entire ignorance
of her character and of her capabilities; they 
are not aware that the very system which they
have constantly inaugurated for her subj[-]ction, 
is the very cause of her supposed inferiority. 
From the beginning of the world there have
ever been women who have stood forth as the
oracles of womanhood, placed there either by 
birthright or circumstances, giving them a posi-
tion where they could develop themselves, and 
redeem their sex from the stigma of inferiority
and almost of imbecility with which man has 
branded her. In such positions she has shown
that she is capable of exalting and refining hu-
man nature, and also defining that beautiful and
most delicate position that he shall hold in re-
gard to his association with her; this is her pre-
reogative when she knows her place, and a true, 
pure woman will hold it with a tenacity that 
God has given her. 
	The greatest men of history have left on re-
cord, for the information of the world, that all 
that was worthy in them they derived from their 
mothers; showing the grandeur of their rich ap-
preciation. Were it not that the human voice
has to be exercised to propel truth and establish
it, I should feel it beneath the dignity of woman
to attempt to clear the opaque vision of some
masculine minds; "God is His own interpreter,
and He will make it plain." That the time has
come to clear the track for the progression of His
daughters, I rejoice; that there are noble men 
who boldly stand forth as the brother and the
advocate of woman in her upward path that
leads to emancipation, one of these I have be-
come acquainted with through his noble book, 
entitled, "Common Sense About Women," by 
T. W. Higginson; coupled with this is, "Woman's
Place To-day." These books should be found in 
the libraries of all advanced minds of the 19th 
century, for they contain an epitome of all that
need be said upon the subject, for to my under-
standing it appears that one who cannot see and
feel and comprehend the truths they contain 
must willfully shut their eyes, and then quer-
ously exclaim, "I cannot see!" Such would not
be persuaded though one rose from the dead. 
Alas! there are many such incredulous minds
upon the earth to day, even now when knowl-
edge and science are withdrawing the veils that
have hitherto obscured the mental vision; sure-
ly such prefer "darkness rather than light;" or 
is it that lethargy is upon many minds; that
sleep which Scripture so vividly portrays by the
ten virgins—they all slumbered and slept, from 
which truth, with her ever glowing lamp, could 
not awaken. 
	Oh, let us watch! that we be not one of these. 
A mind always kept open to conviction will re-
ceive truth by whatever hand it may be brought. 
Like the diamond and the gold, it is indestruc-
tible; and such a mind, ignited by its flame, will
be ready even to hear and obey that thrilling
voice, "Behold the Bridegroom cometh, go ye 
out to meet Hi[-]!"
	HANNAH T. KING. 
Salt Lake City, Jan. 5th, 1885.


[Column 1]
