Y. L. M. I. A. S. L. STAKE.
	The Y. L. M. I. A. Quarterly Conference
of S. L. Stake convened in the Fourteenth
Ward Assembly Rooms, Saturday, Dec. 27,
1884, Mrs. Mary A. Freeze presiding. After
the usual exercises of singing and prayer, the
minutes of previous conference were read by
the secretary and accepted. Prest. Freeze
then called upon the presidents to report their
respective associations. The following wards
were reported: 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 6th, 7th, 10th,
11th, 13th, 14th, 15th, 17th, 19th, 20th, 21st,
Sugar House, Big Cottonwood and Union.
	Prest. Freeze said, I am pleased to see the
young sisters come forward and report their as-
sociations; they are gaining ground and will
continue to improve; expressed herself very
well satisfied with the reports and urged the
young ladies to try to make their meetings in-
teresting and attractive, said she thought the
best meetings were testimony meetings, and
that when the spirit of our religion was more
fully grown in our hearts that we would do
away with our programme. Believed in form-
ing good resolutions; said we find thus by
watching ourselves how weak we are; said if
we would refrain from speaking of persons in
their absence except as we would in their pres-
ence, it would be a great point gained. Spoke
against round dancing and gave some other
good counsel. Referred to her having chosen
Miss Nellie Colebrook as her counselor, and
asked the young ladies, as she felt sure she was
the right person for the place, to sustain her.
Spoke of the necessity of a Stake fund.
	Counselor Nellie Colebrook occupied a short
time, referred to the difference in standing be-
fore the sisters to address them by the right
spirit and the actress reading the words of an-
other aright. Referred to spiritual influence,
and spoke of her happiness in reflecting that
she had been an obedient girl to her parents,
and exhorted the young to obedience to par-
ents and to authorities.
	Dr. Maggie Shipp gave a sketch of her trip
north, and protested in her remarks against
skating rinks as injurious to health, as well as
injurious in other ways.
	Coun. Mattie Horne Tingey thought if the
young ladies remembered half they had heard
it would advance them a long way towards
perfection; thought if we had not a testimony

[Column 3]

it was our own fault, for the Lord expects us to
seek for it. Let us seek after the Spirit of God.
Let us control our thoughts lest we speak or
do wrong, every one has a right to a certain
portion of revelation.
	Prest. E. S. Taylor congratulated Prest.
Freeze on her choice of a counselor; thought
presidents in choosing counselors should seek
those that were congenial to them. Spoke upon
obedience, felt that there had been great pro-
gress made by the young ladies; referred to the
reading in the associations and recommended
them to read from the Bible and Book of Mor-
mon, denounced fictitious literature, and said
we want that which will cultivate the Spirit of
the Lord. We drink in the spirit of what we
read.
	Prest. Freeze in her closing remarks advised
the associations not to forget their Hospital
dues. Thought concerts were preferable to
dancing parties.
	Conference adjourned for three months; sing-
ing; benediction by Prest. Louie Felt.

