THE WORLD'S EXPOSITION. 

NEW ORLEANS, La.,  Dec. 29th, 1884. 
EDITOR EXPONENT: 
	On reaching this city, and finding that Utah 
has made no move towards an exhibit in this 
immense World's Exposition in the Woman's

[Column 2]
﻿Department, I take the first opportunity to ap-
peal to you, with, the assurance that there is a
space awaiting the women of Utah, and the
opportunity to do themselves credit before the 
world, in literature, science, art, invention,
household employment and home industries; in
short to make an exhibit that may show her
steady advance, [-]levation and cultivation.
	It may seem a late time to make a move—let
me assure you,and the rest of the ladies of Utah,
that it is not too late; There are many delays
in all directions; detentions by rail, searc[-]y of
lumber for furnishing spaces, etc., so this gives
one courage to ask for immediate and prompt
sc[-]ion.
	Call all the earnest, appreciative, talented and
co operative women together, and see how much
good work can be done in the shortest time, and
I will do all in my power here for you towards
the care of goods entrusted, and see to it that
they have a proper installation,
	In Literature—There must be some shining
lights, who, if they have not published a book,
have short stories written for papers and maga-
zines. Collections in scrap bocks, and leaned
for the time, would fill the gap. If any works
are issued, all the better.	
	In Art—Are there not artists in oil, water
colors, crayon pictures, wood-carving,etching on
glass, etc;, needle work, fancy, o n amental and
practical; screen painting, carpet and rug mak-
ing, etc, etc.
	In Science.—Who has made a collection of tire
plants of Utah, Its minerals, birds insects, ete ?
	Invention must have claimed the attention of
pome one or more, no matter how, simple if
practical.
	In Enployments and Industries of all kinds
suitable to women, such as canning fruitin glass,
dried fruits, bee farming, silk raising, what ex-
hibits can be made?
	This outline, in brief, I venture to give an
idea of what may be desired and desirable, In
case the ladies of Utah, respond; and allow me to
add, that, as the collection of articles is made, it
 is desirable to duplicate the invoice of each box,
Bending a duplicate to me. Have the name of
each contributor marked upon a label and at-
tached to the article. If to be sold, its value.
When sold, at the close of the Exposition, the
 money will be sent instead of the goods, after
deducting 10 per cent, an express regulation of
the Woman's Department. The goods to be sent
by quick freight, plainly marked “Woman’s Da-
partment, World’s Exposition, New Orleans, for
Mrs. J. G. Lemmon.” 
	Transportation to and from the Exposition,
the cost of installation of goods and all necessary
expanses here will be defrayed by the Depart-
ment of Women.
	You may recall Prof. J. G. Lemmon and my-
self on a brief visit to your beautiful city in
1881, when we participated in celebrating the
90th anniversary of B[-]shop Hunter at the old
folks' picnic. Last season in botanizing in Ari-
zona, we made our botanic headquarters at the
former home of Elder John W. Young, and
there had the pleasure of becoming well ac-
quainted with Elder Segmiller, who made the
hospitalities doubly pleasant, while exploring in
and about the beautiful region of the San Fran-
cisco Mountains.
	Par on this pleasant digression—my thoughts
are none the less alive to the good work ahead;
if you all, over there, act with promptness, and
I know you will esteem it a privilege to offer the
best and do what you can for a good work in
this truly great World's Exposition. Are none
of you coming over here? If you could, and
take the goods under immediate supervision, all
the better. Allow me to say, that whatever I
am doing, or may do, I receive not a dollar of re-


numeration; but with cheerfulness do all I can;
and expect to remain till after the close of the
exhibit.
	With cordial remembrances and good wishes
for the New Year, believe me,
	Yours Respectfully,
	MRS J. G. LEMMON,
	Vice President of Pacific slope (including
Utah) Woman's Department, World's Exposi-
tion, New Orleans.


