[Vol45 | October 1958 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Lesson | Title: Work | Author: Barnett]
[Work Meeting — Qualities of the Effective Home Manager Vesta Barnett]
Work    Uleeting — Managing  a  Home 
(A  Course  Recommended  for  Use  by  Wards  and  Branches  at  Work  Meeting) 
Discussion  4— Qualities  of  the  Effective  Home  Manager 
Vesta  Barnett 
For  Tuesday,  January  13,  1959 
Objective:  To  point  out  qualifications  important  to  an  effective  home  manager. 
TF  you  were  applying  for  a  position,  successful  home  management.  The 
your  employer  would  make  every  sympathetic  understanding  of  indi- 
effort  to  get  an  evahiation  of  vour  vidual    differences    of    members    of 
personal  characteristics.     Since  you  the  family  is  a  great  aid  in  solving 
alreadv    have    the    most    important  problems  and  reducing  frictions  and 
position  in  the  world,  perhaps  you  disappointments  in  family  life.   The 
can  do  some  self-evaluating  and  see  home    manager    who    shows    confi- 
whether  you  would  score  a  plus  or  dence  in  another's  ability,  expresses 
a    minus    in    these    characteristics  approval  when  work  is  well  done, 
recognized  to  be  important  in  the  and  who  is  consistent  and  fair  in 
make-up     of     an     effective     home  dealing  with  all  problems  does  much 
manager.  toward  creating  happy  relations  in 
1.  Intelligence  means  putting  the  the  home. 
intellect  to  work.  One's  ability  to  4.  Imagination  is  an  essential 
pick  out  the  essentials  of  a  problem,  characteristic  for  creative  experience 
to  sec  the  situation  as  a  whole,  to  in  homemaking.  It  is  the  ability 
use  knowledge  previouslv  acquired  to  visualize  and  make  plans,  to  fore- 
in  solving  a  new  problem,  and  in  see  results,  to  anticipate  many  prob- 
reaching  the  goal  depend  upon  lems  before  they  arise, 
one's  intelligence.  Intelligence  is  a  5.  Judgment  is  one  of  the  home- 
comprehensive  term  for  observing,  maker's  most  priceless  character- 
understanding,  thinking,  remember-  istics.  Judgment  is  acquired  through 
ing,  and  the  ability  to  acquire  experience,  and  it  grows  slowly.  It 
knowledge.  is  that  quality  which  enables  one 
2.  Enthusiasm  is  another  charac-  to  weigh  fairly  the  various  facts  in 
teristic  successful  managers  always  a  situation  and  to  see  the  problem 
seem  to  have.  This  quality  is  in  in  reasonable  proportion  to  other 
part  a  by-product  of  good  health,  problems  to  be  faced, 
temperament,  and  one's  conviction  6.  Perseverance  combines  courage 
of  the  importance  of  the  task.  En-  and  patience.  It  is  the  quality  that 
thusiasm  motivates  others  to  inter-  makes  one  work  courageously  and 
est  in  the  activity  and  stimulates  unremittingly  for  achievement.  It 
oneself  to  higher  levels.  A  sustained,  is  that  quality  that  gives  one  the 
lively,  and  healthy  type  of  enthus-  courage  to  face  facts  as  they  are 
iasm  is  preferable  to  an  erratic  type,  and  to  act  in  full  knowledge  instead 
3.  Understanding  of  human   na-  of  blindlv.     It  enables  one  to  see 
ture  is  an  indispensable  quality  for  beyond  the  short  term  goals  to  the 
Page  695