[Vol45 | October 1958 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Fiction | Title: You Can | Author: Jennings]
[You Can Sew — VII. — Setting in Sleeves Jean R. Jennings]
Adaptability is that human quality that makes for flexibility in living. Much of one's ability to meet and solve daily problems depends upon one's ability to adjust to situations, demands, and changing conditions. 'The human environment is not static. Plans must frequently be shifted or even relinquished. Conflicts must be adjusted and difficulties overcome. Failure to meet changing conditions reflects inflexibility of mind which stifles growth and progress and causes disharmony in the home. 8. Self-management is the management of one's own feelings. It involves patience which denotes calm endurance, fortitude, and selfpossession, especially under suffering and provocation caused by inflicted wrongs or misfortunes. The ability to take the everyday happenings of life in one's stride is a worthy characteristic to be cultivated by all. Many problems of management involve personal adjustment and relationships. Mature children usually come from homes where parents meet the problems of life in a mature way. Discouragemrent, worry, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1958 frustration, or a feeling of defeat may indicate poor mental health. The homemaker, more than any other family member, sets the atmosphere in the home. The goal in all happy homes is an atmosphere of harmony and love. The mother must be calm when personal conflicts arise, as they are bound to do in every home. She should be able to handle the emotional entanglements of family members without a display of feelings. Management is successful in so far as it places development of individuals ahead of organization and makes the process of management the means to the end, which is satisfying human experiences. The individual homemaker who would be effective in the management of her home will shape the daily plans of action to fit her own family needs and desires. When this is done, management becomes a_ growing, vital part of the family experience. Discussion Thoughts 1. What are some qualities desirable in a good homemaker? 2. How can self-evaluation be of value to a homemaker? 3. When is management of a home really successful? > She Sra nstent Grace Ingles Frost Summer is a transient thing, Here today, then, fleet of wing It speeds away tomorrow.
