[Vol45 | October 1958 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Elen | Author: Sharp]
[Elen Louise Wallace Madsen Appointed Second Counselor in the General Presidency of Relief Society Marianne C. Sharp]
ELEN  LOUISE   WALLACE   MADSEN 
/^N  August  11,  1958,  Elen  Louise 
Wallace  Madsen  was  called  to 
be  Second  Counselor  in  the  Gen- 
eral Presidency  of  Relief  Society  to 
fill  the  vacancy  occasioned  by  Helen 
Woodruff  Anderson  being  called  to 
serve  a  mission  with  her  husband, 
Alexander  P.  Anderson,  who  was 
named  president  of  the  New  Zea- 
land South  Mission. 
Louise  Madsen  is  well  trained  and 
qualified  to  accept  the  heavv  respon- 
sibilities of  her  new  position.  She 
has  served  on  the  General  Board 
since  December  1947.  Throughout 
those  past  eleven  years  she  has  had 
the  wholehearted  support  and  co- 
operative help  of  her  husband, 
Francis  Armstrong  Madsen  (Presi- 
dent of  the  Madsen  Furniture  Com- 
pany of  Salt  Lake  and  Ogden,  Utah ) 
and  of  her  five  children— Francis  A.

652 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— OCTOBER  1958 
Pre\ioiisly  she  had  served  in  both  the 
hterature  and  theology  departments 
of  Rehef  Society.  Her  work  on  the 
General  Board  has  been  marked  by 
untiring  application  to  every  assign- 
ment ^^'hich  has  been  given  her.  She 
has  ser\ed  on  nearly  every  General 
Board  committee  and  has  magnified 
her  office. 
Louise  Madsen  has  endeared  her- 
self not  only  to  the  General  Board 
members  with  whom  she  has  worked 
so  closely;  but  her  sweet,  gracious 
personality,  her  humility,  and  testi- 
mony have  brought  her  close  to  the 
sisters  in  the  stakes  whom  she  has 
visited  on  con\'entions  and  special 
assignments.  The  happiness  and  hu- 
mility with  which  she  has  accepted 
this  new  calling  are  evidence  of  her 
own  strength  and  her  acceptance 
and  reliance  on  the  inspired  words 
of  Nephi,  "For  I  know  that  the 
Lord  giveth  no  commandment  un- 
to the  children  of  men,  save  he  shall 
prepare  a  way  for  them  that  they 
may  accomplish  the  thing  which  he 
commandeth  them." 
Louise  Madsen  will  accomplish 
this  latest  assignment  with  distinc- 
tion to  herself  and  to  her  beloved 
Relief  Society. 
I  iostalgic    Ujalin 
Elizabeth  MacDougall 
There  grows  beside  a  desert  cabin  door 
On  western  plain,  a  morning-glory  vine. 
Each  day  a  sun -browned  woman  bends  before 
The  struggling  plant,  as  if  it  were  a  shrine. 
The  souvenir  of  all  she  counted  best
