[Vol45 | October 1958 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: In | Author: Young]
[In Memoriam — Elder Clifford Earle Young S. Dilworth Young]

Because he did the will of the Father in becoming the Atoner for mankind, Jesus is able to destroy Satan and his works at the end of the world (verses 2, 3). There follows in this revelation the familiar scriptural standard of LESSON DEPARTMENT judgment: namely, that all men will be judged according to their works. (See D & C 19:3; Revelation 20:13.) But verses 4 through 12 make known an important doctrinal concept of the character of God. The importance of this doctrine is best indicated in the historical background in which it was given. When one knows the beliefs of Joseph Smith's period concerning hell and punishment, he is prepared to understand how the modern Prophet's theological teachings paved the way for a far nobler understanding of God than that conceived by an apostate world. It was not that Joseph Smith had discovered these theological teachings in the Bible, but rather that the Lord revealed them to him. There is another phase of this subject which is important to realize. It is that a change has come about in the Christian world relative to the doctrine of hell and punishment that, sometimes, makes it difficult for some Latter-day Saints of this generation to appreciate fully the message given by the Savior in the First Vision. Some may find it difficult to understand why the Lord would say to the inquiring boy Joseph Smith that he must join none of the churches:. For they were all wrong, and the personage who addressed me said that all their creeds were an abomination in Fis sight: that those professors were all cortupt; that "they draw near to me with their lips, but their hearts are far from me; they teach for doctrines the commandments of men: having a form of godliness, but they deny the power thereof (D. H. C. 1:6). "Christian" Doctrine Changed That a decided change has come during the past century in Christian 687 thinking relative to hell and punishment is well expressed by George Harris in A Century's Change in Religion. He says that ev erlasting punishment is seldom mentioned in the pulpit now (1914); that "hell" is seldom uttered. The concept of a morally ruined man has come to be considered as the character being debased, rather than of extreme physical suffering. He states that the unquenchable fire, the worm that does not die, are believed to mean corrosion and decay. The "Abominable" Doctrine But when did this new thought arise? Several decades after the days of Joseph Smith, even as late as the last quarter of the nineteenth century, theologians were teaching a doctrine which was an abomination in the Lord's sight. Just what was that doctrine? Some ideas held then and to some extent today were brought to the attention of people in England as well as the United States by the Dean of Canterbury in a series of sermons delivered in Westminster Abbey, November and December 1877. In the Preface to his book Eternal Hope, Dr. F. W. Farrar states that the common view is (1) that at death there is passed upon every impenitent sinner an irreversible doom to endless tortures, either material or mental, of the most awful and unspeakable intensity; and (2) that this doom awaits the vast majority of mankind. In further exposition of these common teachings, the Dean said in one of his five sermons: What the popular notion of hell is, you, my brethren, are all aware. Many of us were scared with it, horrified with Otto Done RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1958 MARTIN HARRIS HOME Wayne County, New York it, perhaps almost maddened by it in our childhood. It is that, the moment a human being dies—at whatever age, under whatever disadvantages—his fate is sealed hopelessly and forever; and that if he die in unrepented sin, that fate is a never-ending agony, amid physical tortures the most frightful that can be imagined; so that, when we think of the future of the human race, we must conceive of "a vast and burtting prison, in which the lost souls of millions and millions writhe and shriek for ever, tormented in a flame that never will be quenched." You have only to read the manuals, you have only to study the pictures published, though but rarely, by members of our own Church, and more frequently by Roman Catholics on the one hand, and some sections of Nonconformists on the other, to see that such has been and is the common belief of Christendom. To illustrate the horrible concept of hell as taught in an earlier day, Dean Farrar quotes several examples, among which are these two from Jonathan Edwards: The world will probably (!) be converted into a great lake or liquid globe of fire, in which the wicked shall be overwhelmed, which shall always be in tempest, in which they shall be tossed to and fro, having no rest day or night, vast waves or billows of fire continually rolling over their heads, of which they shall ever be full of a quick sense, within and without; their heads, their eyes, their tongues, their hands, their feet, their loins and their vitals shall for ever be full of a glowing, melting fire, enough to melt the very rocks and elements. Also they shall be full of the most quick and lively sense to feel the torments, not for ten millions of ages, but for ever and ever, without any end at all An apostate "Christian" world had gone astray in fostering such teachings concerning eternal punishment and hell (spirit world). It had lost a true understanding of the relationship of God and mankind as a parent-child relationship. 'The understanding of the character of LESSON DEPARTMENT God was perverted by a false concept of his plan for his children. People eventually revolted against this position by even denying the existence of and the power of Satan in the world. (See 2 Nephi, chapter 28.)