[Vol45 | October 1958 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Danger]
[Danger — Curve Ahead]
DANGER— CURVE  AHEAD 
665 
So— slow  down!  ITccd  before  you  speed.  It's  vour  highway,  your  car, 
your  hazard.  You  hold  the  steering  wheel.  You  control  the  throttle.  It's 
your  life  to  live  usefully  or  to  spend  recklessly;  your  life  to  save  or  lose. 
BE  HONEST  WITH  YOURSELF 
DANGER 
curves  ahead!

LKecipes  cJroin  the    liew  cAoealand  c>outh    1 1  iission 
Submitted  by  Wealtha  S.  Mendenhall 
Trifle  Supreme 
Vs c.  sugar 
pinch  of  salt 
1/4    tbsp.  com  flour  (cornstarch) 
iVi    c.  milk 
1   two-layer,  eight-inch  sponge  cake 
1   egg 
1   tbsp.  butter 
1   tsp.  vanilla 
/4    c.  ginger  ale 
!4    c.  blanched,  sliced  almonds 
raspberry  jam 
fruit    (pineapple,   passion   fruit,   or  a 
banana) 
Vi    pt.  whipped  cream 
Mix  in  double  boiler  the  sugar,  salt,  corn  flour  (cornstarch),  and  milk.  Cook  until 
thick,  stirring  often.  Beat  the  egg  and  add  to  a  portion  of  mixture.  Then  add  this 
mixture  to  remaining  mixture  and  blend  all  together  well.  Cook  one  minute,  stirring 
constantly.    Remove  from  heat,  add  butter  and  vanilla.    Cool. 
Have  ready  two  layers  of  sponge  cake,  and  spread  each  generously  with  raspberry 
jam.  Place  one  layer  in  deep  serving  dish  and  moisten  with  ginger  ale,  then  cover  with 
half  of  the  custard  mixture. 
Arrange  a  layer  of  fruit  over  the  custard.  Pineapple,  passion  fruit,  or  a  banana 
would  be  delicious.  Sprinkle  the  fruit  with  blanched  sliced  almonds.  Spread  with 
whipped  cream. 
Place  the  other  layer  of  sponge  cake  on  top  and  repeat  with  the  ginger  ale,  custard, 
fruit,  almonds,  and  whipped  cream. 
Whole- Wheat  Scones 
%    c.  white  flour 
1   tsp.  syrup  (light) 
4    c.  warm  water 
1   egg  (optional) 
milk,  as  directed 
Vi   tsp.  salt 
4  tsp.  baking  powder  (level) 
1  !4    c.  whole-wheat  flour 
2  tbsp.  butter 
Sift  into  bowl  the  white  flour,  salt,  and  baking  powder.  Add  the  whole-wheat 
flour.  Different  proportions  of  white  and  whole-wheat  flour  may  be  used.  Add  the 
butter  and  rub  in  with  tip3  of  fingers.  Place  syrup  in  a  cup  and  add  warm  water.  Fill 
the  cup  with  milk  and  mix.  Pour  into  flour  and  form  into  a  soft  dough.  A  little  more 
milk  may  be  necessary.  An  egg  may  replace  some  of  the  milk  and  make  a  lighter  dough. 
Roll  into  a  piece  about  one  inch  thick  and  cut  into  desired  size.  Bake  from  ten  to 
twelve  minutes  in  a  very  hot  oven  on  a  greased  cookie  sheet. 
Homemade  Yeast 
/4   c.  hops  (generous) 
1  pt.  water 
1  tsp.  salt  (scant) 
%  c.  plus  1  tbsp.  sugar 
Vi    c.  flour 
Vi   lb.  potatoes 
Simmer  hops  and  water  together  for  forty-five  minutes.  Strain  and  when  luke- 
warm add  salt,  sugar,  and  flour.  Stir  to  a  smooth  thin  paste.  Put  in  two-quart  bottle 
and  cover.  Keep  in  warm  place  for  two  days,  stirring  occasionally.  Boil  potatoes  until 
well  done  and  then  mash  and  add  to  the  hops  mixture.  Leave  until  next  day,  stir- 
ring occasionally. 
Page  6££

RECIPES  FROM  THE  NEW  ZEALAND  SOUTH  MISSION 
667 
Hop  Brkad 
For  Sponge: 
8  oz.  homemade  yeast  mixture  (above)  i   tsp.  salt 
Yz    pt.  water  (lukewarm)  24  oz.  flour 
2   tbsp.  sugar 
For  Dough: 
48  oz.  flour 
Mix  in  bowl  the  homemade  yeast,  \\ater,  flour  (24  oz),  salt,  and  sugar  to  make 
a  sponge.  Let  the  sponge  remain  in  bowl  until  it  bubbles  and  is  double  in  amount. 
Then  add  in  a  center  hole  in  the  sponge  mixture  the  additional  flour  (48  ozj.  Add 
enough  water  to  make  a  dough  of  all  the  flour.  Knead  well  on  a  board  (10  minutes). 
Add  more  flour  if  neeessary.  Put  back  in  bowl,  co\er,  and  keep  in  warm  place  until  it 
rises  again  to  double  the  amount.  Knead  well  again  and  place  in  loaf  pans.  Let  rise 
until  double  in  amount  again  and  bake  in  hot  o\en  at  400°  for  fifteen  minutes,  then 
lower  heat  to  550°  for  forty-fi\e  minutes. 
Jx   cJi'ibute  to   the   Quilling   C^hair/nan 
Colleen  Pincgnr 
As  work  day  begins 
And  the  ladies  start  to  come, 
\\'ith  their  thimbles  all  poised 
For  the  task  that's  to  be  done. 
There's  a  ver}^  special  feeling 
That  permeates  the  room. 
As  these  housewixes  do  assemble, 
Lea\  ing  home  their  mop  and  broom. 
The  quilt's  so  very  beautiful, 
And  vou  can  hear  the  sisters  say, 
"I  wonder  who  has  been  here  first 
To  pin  it  up  this  way." 
Yes,  someone  had  been  there 
Long  before  they  came, 
To  make  sure  it  would  be  ready 
For  work  dav's  quilting  game. 
She  wages  the  battle 
Of  the  tacks  and  the  pins. 
She  struggles  and  stretches 
And  finalh'  she  w  ins. 
Then  with  her  task  completed, 
She  surveys  what  she's  done. 
And,  rubbing  her  pricked  fingers, 
Hopes  it  pleases  e\  cry  one. 
So,  if  you're  a  quilting  chairman. 
Or  ha\e  been,  or  hope  to  be, 
]\hiy  we  offer  appreciation 
And  our  gratitude  to  thee. 
JLast   K^anipfire 
Elsie  McKiunon  Strnclmn 
The  last  of  autumn  burns  here: 
Crackle  of  golden  stubble. 
Crimson  of  sumac's  flame. 
Sun  on  the  fruit-sweet  bough; 
Here,  where  our  fire  burns  bright, 
Smoke-quills  lazily  pencil 
The  last  farewells  .  .  .  while  wc 
Bask  in  the  flickering  now.