[Vol45 | October 1958 | Sequence: 11 | Category: General Feature | Title: Notes | Author: Parker]
[Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities Hulda Parker]
FROM    THE    FIELD 
Hiilda  Parker,  General  Secretary-Treasurer 
All  material  submitted  for  piibli.eation  in  this  department  should  be  sent  through 
stake  and  mission  Relief  Society  presidents.  See  regulations  governing  the  submittal  of 
material  for  "Notes  From  the  Field"  in  the  Afagazinc  for  January  1958,  page  47,  and 
in  the  Relief  Society  Handbook  of  Instructions. 
Photograph  submitted  by  Florence  S.  Jacobsen 
EASTERN  STATES  MISSION,  ALBANY-HUDSON  DISTRICT  SINGING 
MOTHERS  PRESENT  MUSIC  FOR  RELIEF  SOCIETY  CONFERENCE, 
April  26,  1958 
Seated  in  the  front  row  (foreground)  at  right,  right  to  left.  District  officers:  Helen 
J.  Barton,  Sccrctar}'-Treasurer;  Addie  M.  Murdock,  Second  Counselor;  Ivinetta  R. 
Oliver,  First  Counselor;  Jean  W.  Wood,  President. 
Standing  in  the  second  row  at  the  right,  next  to  the  piano,  right  to  left:  Norma 
R.  Spencer,  chorister;  Norma  Maughn,  organist. 
Florence  S.  Jacobsen,  President,  Eastern  States  Mission  Relief  Society,  reports: 
"The  AlbanyTIudson  District  (New  York),  consisting  of  five  Relief  Society  organiza- 
tions, is  one  of  ten  districts  in  the  Eastern  States  Mission.  Each  district  Relief  Society 
presents  twice  a  year  a  complete  Relief  Society  Con\ention  program.  At  the  con\en- 
tion  held  April  26,  1958,  in  Albany-Hudson,  the  Singing  Mothers  from  all  the  Relief 
Society  organizations  practiced  in  preparation  for  singing  at  the  Sunday  services  held 
during  the  General  Authorities'  tour  of  the  mission  by  President  Milton  R.  Hunter.  I'he 
abo\e  picture  was  taken  after  they  had  just  finished  singing  a  most  beautifully  rendered 
song,  at  a  conference  where  353  members  and  investigators  were  present.  We  are  grate- 
ful for  the  devotion  of  the  outstanding  Singing  Mothers  groups  throughout  the  Eastern 
States  Mission.  They  give  unselfishly  of  their  time  and  talents  and  lift  us  spiritually 
with  their  voices  in  song. 
"Sisters  from  the  following  Relief  Society  organizations  participated  in  the  chorus: 
Albany,  Schenectady,  Poughkeepsie,  Kingston,  and  Newburg." 
Page  679