[Vol45 | October 1958 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Lesson | Title: Social]
[Social Science — Weighed in the Balances John Farr Larson 704]
personality.  During  adolescence, 
for  instance,  when  growth  and  social 
dexelopment  come  at  such  a  rapid 
pace,  most  youngsters  get  feelings 
of  inferiority  and  anxiety.  Often 
these  feelings  are  contributing  fac- 
tors in  wrongdoing.  Physical  de- 
fects often  suggest  inferiority  feel- 
ings and,  to  compensate,  some  per- 
sons perform  acts  which  arc  de\'ia- 
tions  from  rectitude. 
Delinquent  behavior  may  result 
from  deep  personal  conflicts  which 
arise  in  a  variety  of  ways.  The  need 
to  grow  intellectually  and  to  give  ex- 
pression to  this  drive  is  so  strong 
that  any  attempt  to  thwart  it,  or 
e\en  failure  to  encourage  it,  often 
results  in  uncommendable  intellect- 
ual achievement.     Mental  capacity

706 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— OCTOBER  1958 
influences  behavior.  Mentally  su- 
perior persons  are  known  to  get  into 
trouble  because  they  have  far  too 
little  to  keep  them  challenged  and 
busy.  Persons  of  low  mentality  are 
less  likely  to  misbehave  but  are 
easilv  led  by  others.  Some,  who  are 
mentally  retarded,  are  unable  fully 
to  sense  right  from  wrong. 
The  social  development  of  chil- 
dren primarily  involves  steps  towards 
independence.  This  development 
follows  a  normal  course  with  indi- 
vidual variations,  but,  when  it  is 
unduly  accelerated  or  retarded,  the 
probability  of  problems  is  greatly 
increased.  The  child  who  feels 
socially  inadequate  is  often  observed 
to  seek  success,  of  a  kind,  by  his 
misdeeds. 
Failure  to  provide  a  climate  for 
spiritual  growth  diverts  the  indi- 
vidual into  unwholesome  activity. 
Spiritual  growth,  which  comes  from 
a  close  association  with  Deity 
through  prayer,  knowledge  of  God 
and  his  ways,  and  by  living  consist- 
ent with  God's  teachings,  makes  life 
meaningful  by  providing  a  goal.  The 
person  who  has  no  such  influence 
drifts  easily,  lacks  a  sense  of  values, 
and  becomes  actively  interested  in 
momentary  pleasurable  experiences, 
many  of  which  are  of  the  baser  type. 
The  Imprint  oi  Parents 
Parents  are  the  most  vital  influ- 
ence in  the  lives  of  children.  Parent- 
child  relationships  determine  the 
degree  of  the  child's  respect  for 
others  and  their  rights,  and  the 
child's  conception  of  right  from 
wrong.  Somewhat  in  reflection  of 
the  affection  shown  by  parents,  chil- 
dren display  a  warm  or  critical  atti- 
tude toward  others.  A  good  affec- 
tional  relationship  with  parents  gives 
the  child  emotional  balance.  A  poor 
one  encourages  unsatisfactory  affec- 
tional  relationships  with  others. 
These  relationships  often  involve 
seriously  distorted  conduct.  An 
emotionallv  disturbed  child,  the  re- 
suit  of  a  poor  parent-child  relation- 
ship, or  other  stress,  often  turns  in 
desperation  to  delinquent  acts. 
Parents'  reaction  to  their  child's 
current  behavior  affects  the  child's 
future  behavior.  Children  who  lack 
the  stimulation  of  parents  for  de- 
sirable accomplishments  often  drift 
into  delinquency.  On  the  other 
hand,  parents  who  place  too  much 
stress  on  success  often  cause  children 
to  resort  to  wrong  behavior  as  a 
substitute,  frustrated  because  they 
are  unable  to  attain  the  heights  de- 
manded by  parents. 
Community  \ni\uenees 
We  are  greatly  influenced  in  our 
lives  by  the  community  and,  par- 
ticularly, by  those  who  are  close 
around  us.  Most  of  us  like  to  "be- 
long" and  we  are  thus  inclined  to 
agree  with  the  accepted  activity  of 
others.  This  is  the  basis  of  the  so- 
called  ''gang"  spirit.  When  such 
activity  differs  from  righteous  teach- 
ings, these  teachings  are  a  deterrent 
to  delinquent  behavior  if  such  teach- 
ings have  been  clear  and  have  been 
made  to  seem  important. 
The  commission  of  crime  may  be 
suggested  by  communication  media, 
such  as  movies,  television,  news- 
papers, radio,  and  comic  books. 
These  media  often  curiously  suggest 
that  crime  and  violence  are  all  right 
under  certain  circumstances.  For 
example,  the  criminal  is  often  pic- 
tured as  having  a  fascinating  life- 
one  whose  chief  concern  is  to  avoid

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
707 
arrest   rather   than   to  refrain   from 
wrongdoing. 
The  lack  of  wholesome  recreation- 
al ontlets  and  the  presence  of  tav- 
erns, pool  halls,  and  other  such  in- 
fluences, often  contribute  to  de- 
linquency, particularly  where  young 
people  arc  not  creatively  engaged. 
Schools  generally  contribute  to 
desirable  conduct,  but  the  school  in- 
fluence may  also  be  negative.  The 
child  who  fails  to  obtain  satisfaction 
from  school  progress  may,  for  atten- 
tion, turn  to  unacceptable  activities 
such  as  destructive  acts  at  the 
school. 
What  to  Do  About  Delinquency 
What  can  we  do  in  our  role  as 
parents,  grandparents,  community 
members,  Church  members,  and 
persons  interested  in  youth,  to  pre- 
vent the  de\'elopment  of  delinquent 
tendencies  and  to  correct  or  change 
persons  who  commit  delinquent 
acts? 
Home  and  Family 
Parents  can  properly  teach  their 
chiklien.  Latter-dav  Saints  have 
been  enjoined  specifically  and  par- 
ticularly that  they  must  assume  this 
responsibility.  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith  at  one  general  conference  ad-
