[Vol45 | October 1958 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Fiction | Title: Womans | Author: Cannon]
[Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon]
Sixtyi    Ljears  J/igo 
Excerpts  From  the  Woman's  Exponent,  October  i,  and  October  15,  1898 
"For  the  Rights  of  the  Women  of  Zion  and  the  Rights  of  the 
Women  of  All  Nations" 
THE  GENERAL  CONFERENCE:  The  sermons  and  instructions  during  the 
conference  have  been  particularly  spiritual  in  their  character.  .  ,  .  The  great  need  of 
faith  in  God  has  been  one  of  the  strong  points  in  all  the  teaching  given,  and  the  need 
of  a  living  and  abiding  testimony  of  the  truth  of  the  gospel  as  revealed  in  this  last 
dispensation  .  .  .  and  the  future  awaiting  those  who  remained  faithful.  ...  A  feeling  of 
serenity  and  of  faith  abides  with  the  saints.  .  .  . — Editorial 
THE  SILK  INDUSTRY:  Ages  have  demonstrated  that  immense  wealth  has  been 
produced  bv  sericulture.  The  Chinese  and  Japanese  date  back  thousands  of  years  the 
existence  of  this  wonderful  industry  which  has  furnished  the  most  costly  and  ornamental 
clothing  the  world  has  ever  worn,  even  royalty  itself  owes  its  richness  of  attire  .  .  . 
to  a  worm  so  forbidding  to  some  of  our  more  refined  ladies,  as  to  become  repulsive  to  the 
sight.    And  yet  this  worm  is  the  producer  of  all  the  silk  in  the  world. 
— Elizabeth  Packard 
ETERNITY 
.  .  .  Still  on  in  the  dim  prospective,  in  the  solemn  march  of  time, 
We  read  the  story  of  Light  and  Love  struggling  up  to  a  height  sublime. 
Eternity  looms  before  us:  Shall  Humanity's  dream  come  true? 
Ah,  yes,  for  the  trend  of  the  Soul  mounts  on  with  deathless  life  in  view! 
— Ruby  Lament 
SUMMIT  STAKE  RELIEF  SOCIETY  CONFERENCE:  Counselor  Ruth  M. 
Pack  addressed  the  sisters,  advising  them  to  build  good  granaries  and  lay  up  wheat  .  .  . 
work  in  the  time  thereof  J:hen  your  duties  will  be  easy.  Get  the  Spirit  of  God,  have 
your  lamps  trimmed  and  burning,  that  you  may  be  prepared  for  whatever  is  before 
you.  It  is  a  grand  thing  to  be  a  Latter-day  Saint.  We  have  to  do  our  work  in  this 
dispensation  to  prepare  for  the  future.  .  .  . 
— Mary  L.  Woolstenhulme,  Sec. 
PUBLIC  SPEAKER:  When  you  talk  or  read  to  a  congregation  .  .  .  don't  hide 
your  face  behind  a  book  or  down  in  your  hands,  but  lift  up  your  head  so  that  your 
voice  may  go  out  clear  and  distinct  to  the  hearers. 
—  (Mrs.)  Dr.  E.  S.  Barney 
A  WOMAN  EDITOR  AND  PUBLISHER:  Mrs.  Ellen  Louise  Demorest,  founder 
of  Demorest's  Monthly  Magazine,  died  recently  in  New  York  City.  Mrs.  Demorest  had 
been  actively  engaged  for  many  years  in  philanthropic  and  temperance  work  and  in 
publishing  the  magazine  and  other  literary  and  fashionable  periodicals. 
— News  Note 
Page  660

Woman*s  Sphere 
Ramona  W.  Cannon 
■pOUR  women  have  been  selected 
by  Queen  Ehzabeth,  with  the 
appro\al  of  her  ministers,  to  take 
their  seats  in  the  House  of  Lords  in 
November  iq^S:  Dame  Katherine 
Elhott,  fifty-five,  former  delegate  to 
the  United  Nations  and  Chairman 
of  the  Advisory  Committee  on 
Child  Care  for  Scotland;  Barbara 
Frances  Wootton,  sixty-one,  econo- 
mist, former  professor  of  social 
studies,  University  of  London; 
Baroness  Ravensdale,  sixty-two,  \^ice- 
President  of  the  National  Associa- 
tion of  Girls'  Clubs  and  Mixed 
Clubs;  Stella,  Dowager  Marchioness 
of  Reading,  sixty-three,  founder  of 
the  Women's  Voluntarv  Ser\'ice  for 
Civil  Defense.  The  Marchioness  of 
Reading  visited  Salt  Lake  City  in 
June  and  was  entertained  at  a  re- 
ception by  the  General  Board  of 
Relief  Society  in  the  Relief  Society 
Buildmg. 
OERTHA  MAHONEY  MILLER 
and  Elinor  Whitney  Field  are 
editors  of  Caldecott  Medal  Books: 
1938-1957,  which  give  biographical 
sketches,  with  delightful  illustrations 
by  the  illustrators  of  children's  books 
who  have  received  the  annual  Calde- 
cott  medal  for  the  picture  book 
judged  most  distinguished  by  the 
Children's  Library  Association. 
jyrRS.  DEAN  LEFEVRE,  of  Pan- 
guitch,  Utah,  who  supervises 
the  school  lunch  program  for  Gar- 
field County  school  district,  was  the 
1957  national  winner  of  the  Ameri- 
can School  Food  Service  Association 
award.  She  was  cited  for  making 
"the  most  outstanding  contribution 
to  the  goals  of  the  school  lunch 
program  in  a  local  situation."  Left- 
oxer  government  commodities,  such 
as  dried  eggs,  peanut  butter,  and 
canned  figs  were  going  begging- 
disliked  by  the  children.  Mrs.  Lefev- 
re  supplied  recipes  to  use  them  all 
in  puddings,  cookies,  and  breads. 
jyi RS.  GITA  SHENOUDA  is  the 
first  Egyptian  woman  to  practice 
interior  decoration.  She  studied  her 
profession  for  four  years  in  New 
York  City  and  upon  her  return  to 
her  native  land,  she  participated 
\\ith  her  husband  in  many  decorat- 
ing projects  before  accepting  as- 
signments for  herself. 
r\R.    SUAD   AL-KASSAB   is  the 
first  Iraqi  woman  to  hold  a 
Ph.D.  degree  in  bio-chemistrv.  A 
homemaker  and  an  excellent  cook, 
Mrs.  Al-Kassab  combines  these  ac- 
tivities with  her  work  as  a  faculty 
member  at  the  Institute  of  Medical 
Research  in  Bagdad. 
Page  661

EDITORIAL 
VOL.    45 
OCTOBER    1958 
NO.    10 
L^hildren  in  Uxelief  Society 
A/f  ARY  sat  in  Relief  Society  meet- 
ing with  David  on  her  lap.  Her 
two  daughters  were  in  the  Relief 
Society  nursery,  but  Mary  wanted  to 
keep  David  with  her  as  he  was  still 
afraid  of  strangers.  Last  time  she 
had  left  him  in  the  nursery,  he  liad 
been  upset  for  the  rest  of  the  day. 
Mary  had  chosen  her  seat  care- 
fully in  the  back  so  David  could 
stand  down  if  he  wished,  and  not 
disturb  the  other  sisters.  Most  of 
them,  though,  smiled  at  David  and 
seemed  to  enjoy  seeing  him. 
After  Relief  Society,  Sister  Parker 
drove  Mary  and  the  three  children 
home.  ''We  are  so  happy  that  you 
bring  your  children  and  come  to 
Relief  Society,"  Sister  Parker  con- 
fided. ''We  know  it  must  be  quite 
a  rush  for  you  to  get  them  ready  and 
walk  over  with  them." 
Mary  gave  a  retrospective  sigh. 
"Yes,  it  is,  but  I  always  learn  so 
much  in  Relief  Society  and  I  love 
to  meet  with  the  women  of  the 
ward.  While  I  iron  I  think  about 
what  is  said  at  the  meeting  and  it 
really  helps  me.  ...  It  spurs  me  on 
to  study,"  Mary  confessed.  "It 
seems,  I  need  something  to  make 
me  take  the  time  to  keep  studying. 
I  could  spend  all  my  time  in  house- 
work and  taking  care  of  the  children 
—then  reading  something  frothy. 
Now  I  read  the  lesson  before  I  go  to 
meeting  and  that  gives  me  the  urge 
to  read  something  worthwhile  when 
I  have  a  chance. 
Page  662 
"The  thing  that  worries  me, 
though,  is  keeping  David  with  me 
when  they  have  a  nursery.  Fm  afraid 
some  of  the  sisters  think  I  should 
not  bring  him  into  the  meeting.  He 
is  just  at  the  age,  though,  when  he 
isn't  happy  unless  he  stays  with  me." 
Sister  Parker  did  not  speak  for  a 
minute  or  two.  When  she  did  she 
seemed  to  be  reliving  an  experience 
of  the  past.  "As  long  as  you  take 
David  out  when  he  fusses  or  cries, 
as  you  always  do,  Fm  sure  his  little 
sounds  or  walking  by  your  chair  do 
not  interfere  with  the  sisters  hear- 
ing and  paying  attention  to  the  class 
leaders.  The  nurserv  is  provided  for 
the  children,  but  when  a  mother  has 
a  reason,  perhaps  known  onlv  to 
herself,  why  she  doesn't  wish  to 
place  her  child  in  the  nurserv,  I'm 
sure  the  sisters  are  understanding." 
"They  al\\ays  seem  very  friendlv/' 
Mary  admitted.  "I  get  so  much 
from  being  in  Relief  Society  and  not 
worrying  over  David.  Nan  and  Su- 
san are  happy  in  the  nursery,"  Mary 
glanced  at  the  two  girls  in  the  back 
seat,  "and  next  year  I  think  David 
will  be,  too." 
Sister  Parker  urged,  "It  is  my  ex- 
perience that  it  is  important  for  a 
young  mother  with  children  to  at- 
tend Relief  Society.  I  remember  a 
dear  friend,  Jane,  many  years  ago. 
Her  husband  was  forced  to  be  away 
from  his  family  very  much  because 
of  the  nature  of  his  business.  I 
noticed  that  Jane  was  beginning  to