[Vol45 | October 1958 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Fiction | Title: Not to | Author: Sutherland]
["Not to the Swift" — Chapter 4 Deone R. Sutherland]
Leaving us to watch its flight, It passes swiftly from our sight And fills the heart with sorrow For the loss of beauty shed, Which so lavishly is spread For us to gather at our will; Yes, summer is a transient thing Gay of heart and fleet of wing, Of which we never have our fill, Though we beg and strive to borrow Hours from time's reckoning. — — America's Literature — Meet the New World Lesson 4—Some Puritan Women Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature, by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes, Dryden Press, New York, pp. 11, 53, 54, 55-57) For Tuesday, January 20, 1959 Objcctive: Through glimpses into the lives of Puritan women to acknowledge some of the common bonds which tie them to their sisters, regardless of time. THOSE of us who have attempted to make a drawing, know how difficult is the problem of perspective, or creating on paper the illusion of space-relation among various objects. Gaining a true historical perspective is no less difficult. 'To stand surrounded by our living present and attempt to judge fairly each historical period, first according to its own merits, then in relation to preceding and following periods, is a task most of us have never dared to attempt. 'Those who have attempted it usually have been professional historians; even so, despair and frustration often have been their bedfellows. As illustration, who realizes that by 1959 exactly the same number of years will have passed since the ending of the Revolutionary War as had elapsed before the war, starting from 1607 and Jamestown, the first permanent English settlement in the New World. To regard the distant, ancient struggle of the Founding Fathers as a halfway mark seems preposterous. Yet such is the case. And such is the difficulty in earning a historical perspective of our own living past. A related problem, but even knottier, might be to cite specific names as proof that, before Betsy Ross or Martha Washington, at least half the "Founding Fathers" were of the female sex. From the female names on numerous tombstones (families of ten to thirteen children were not uncommon ) as well as the lovely cut and stained-glass pieces, the rubbed hardwood paneling in bedroom and parlor, the full-colored velvets and silks, the sterling silver pitchers and tableware, the distinguished oil paintings in the homes, we know that women were not far distant,
