Recipes From the Northern Mexican Mission," by Sister Taylor, page 514. &veryday Life in Colonial Tlew &ngland (1620-1781 ) PART 1. Alberta H. Christensen Member, General Board of Relief Society Illustrations by Virginia Sargent What do you see, William Bradford, Looking landward, looking seaward, From the dunes? ROM the beachhead of Plymouth Bay, William Bradford could see a _ wilderness of ocean, three months wide, between him and a religiously turbulent motherland; looking landward, beyond the sand dunes, lay a wilderness of trees, silent and unexplored. He could not foresee the miracle of dominion over resources of land, of sea, and of air that would eventually transform such wilderness into urban America. What he and _ his companion Separatists of 1620 did envision, was a community of saints living according to the Bible's word. The story of colonization is the story of the flexible, the resourceful, the willing, and courageous. Such were these strangers to New England shores who left so deep an imprint on what we call the American way of life. We know some of them intimately through their own words —a valuable legacy of letters, diaries, sermons, poetry, and historical journals. Although our Pilgrim-Puritan ancestors did not create a great body of distinctive art or sculpture or music, they were literature and history conscious, and they did create a large body of literature. From these writings we can, with reasonable accuracy, visualize the everyday Page 502 ways of early New England. But we must keep in mind when speaking of colonial living that great progress took place in every aspect of life, between the settlement of Plymouth and the close of the Revolutionary War—from wooden mug to silver chalice; from village cooper to skilled cabinetmaker; from bark-covered hut to the colonial brick dwelling with its imported or locally made beautifully designed furniture. 'There were also daifferences in the various areas of New England during the colonial period. Conditions in the Massachusetts Bay Colony were somewhat different from those of the Rhode Island and Connecticut settlements, and life in the Pilgrim colony of Plymouth varied in several respects from that of Puritan Boston (before they were united in 1692), although less than fifty miles separated them. Therefore, in any attempt briefly to reconstruct this period, many omissions must consciously be made and°many interesting exceptions be lost in generalization. Of Houses To provide temporary shelter was the first concern of our New England settlers, once they had dropped