Visiting Seacher ITlessages— Truths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants Message 10—Remember the Worth of Souls Is Great in the Sight of God" (D & C 18:10). Christine H. Robinson For Tuesday, November 4, 1958 Objective: To show the importance of saving souls. HE message expressed in The Doctrine and Covenants (18:10) although brief, is profoundly significant. God's plan of salvation ultimately is concerned only with the saving of our souls. Our Father in heaven said: "... This is my work and my glory—to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man" (Pearl of Great Price, Moses 1:39). Throughout all of his teachings, Jesus had the same great goal in mind and expressed it over and over again in exhorting his disciples to go into all the world and preach the gospel and to bring souls unto him. This emphasis on the worth of souls, is a source of great encouragement. The Lord's declaration that the worth of souls is great in his sight elevates mankind to a level of dignity and majesty which should be a source of inspiration and motivation to all of us. William Jordon expressed this thought in these words: "Man is never truly great. Until filled with knowledge of the majesty of his possibility. He must first breathe the fresh, air of recognition of his divine im- LESSON DEPARTMENT portance as an individual asa great human soul with marvelous possibilities" (Self - Control — Its Kingship and Majesty, page 8). Our Father in heaven organized the universe for the benefit of his children. All that this world is and all that it possesses is for us, to be used wisely for our joy and wellbeing. To fulfill its destiny and God's purpose, however, we his children must live so as to earn eternal life. The great challenge this message brings us is how we can assist our Father in heaven in bringing souls unto him. Our first responsibility is to make sure our own souls are saved. Fortunately, probably the best way to do this is to work conscientiously to help others save theirs. The joy of this labor is made clear in the following verse: And if it so be that you should labor all your days in crying repentance unto this people, and bring, save it be one soul unto me, how great shall be your joy with him in the kingdom of my _ Father! (D & C 18:15). One way all of us can help is to teach the principles of the gospel and bear testimony of its truthfulness to our family, neighbors, and friends. Too many of us overlook this wonderful opportunity to help bring souls to our Father in heavyen. Not long ago a mother presented to her teen-age daughter a lovely antique silver bowl which her great-grandmother, over a hundred years earlier, had brought to Utah in a covered wagon. The mother 549 told the daughter she hoped she would always cherish the bowl. She also suggested that when she was married and had a daughter of her own, she should in turn give the bowl to her daughter so that she, too, would remember the courage and fortitude of a great-great-grandmother who had forfeited most of her worldly possessions for the gospel. 'The mother said: Although this bowl is very beautiful, I should like to help you obtain something even more beautiful. I want you to possess something more precious than silver or gold. It is something for which you yourself must work diligently. However, when once you have earned it, no one can ever take it from you, so long as you wish to keep it. 'This precious possession is a testimony of the truthfulness of the gospel. Your great-grandmother was the first in our family to possess this silver bowl and a testimony. This testimony had a profound influence upon her and also upon the life of her daughter, your grandmother. Now I, your mother, should like to pass my testimony on to you. We can help also to bring souls unto our Father in heaven through living exemplary lives. Consciously or unknowingly, we constantly influence the lives of those around us for good or evil. In order to make our influence felt as a power for good, we must have a firm and settled faith in the gospel and then must practice putting these gospel truths into action in our lives. We must so live that others will see the fruits of the gospel and will desire to follow its teachings. Let us strive to bring souls to our Father in heaven. Let us always remember that "... The worth of souls is great in the sight of God."