What Can We Expect From the Home, Jean Cox It is the function of the home to make available for the various members of the family opportunity for health, encouragement, happiness, rest, work and recreation. The most important responsibility of the home in the light of recent investigations is to adapt to individual needs the different health principles which contribute towards radiant health. In view of the wide distribution of information on the value of protective and growth-promoting foods, every home-maker of average intelligence should make these valuable foods important factors in the family diet. Wanton disregard of this available information will undoubtedly bring reproach from the grown-ups of tomorrow. Happiness, rest, recreation and work, are also very important contributing factors toward health. Opportunities for these are, however, difficult to classify as they belong to the tangible phase of homemaking about which we may feel but find difficulty in expressing» Another important responsibility within the home is the giving of encouragement necessary for the best development of the different members of the home group. One of the most important phases of homemaking is responsibility of keeping the different members of the family from becoming discouraged. It is impossible to succeed if the person loses faith in his own ability. At the present times there is much discouragement which results from unsatisfactory social and economic conditions. One very successful homemaker put away a dress that had been troublesome, an hour before the absent family returned, so as to overcome her own feelings and be better able to commend and encourage their different activities. Nor did she lose by helping the others, the next day the sewing was easily accomplished. But better still, she also had the satisfaction of having her family enjoy a happy evening and start out on the new day's work with confidence and success. A delightful habit which helps to maintain a high morale (of this homemaker in his family is in addition to the usual goodbye the expressed wish "Have a nice day.") The home should be cooperative rather than individualistic. Where individual interests are distinct and separate from the major interests of the group, meal times are strained, hours are irregular and the house usually has a general atmosphere of wanting to blow up and away. Without some interests in common, the family cannot make the most of their individual and group re- 
 sponsibilities. Where children are reared in homes of this kind there is a spirit of evasion and an almost uncanny ability in sliding out from under responsibilities, which do not result in good moral training. _ Satisfactory. Homes are cooperative. The same principles of cooperation which developed during the world war in willingness to help others and taking care of the weaker should be lived up to and practiced within the home. Helping the small toddler to complete a self-appointed task, almost too big for diminutive arms, is not more important than helping some extra tired member of the family to finish successfully a piece of work that was over long. \When the daughter comes in from school and cooperates willingly, mother's responsibility seems much less. The same thing is true if the son shoulders some responsibility in earning the living. In either case, the results are not as important as the spirit of comradeship and approval of efforts made. The kindly personal interest in the activities of the different members of the family binds them together. Perhaps the importance of this is not fully realized. It isn't the binding up of the small finger that is important in the cure but that assurance that mother is sorry because of the hurt. The actual assistance given the twelve-year-old in making a car that will run is relatively unimportant. Her faith in his achievement is much more necessary for the success of the undertaking. 'Mothers who persistently express discouragement over prospective achievements are gambling with the failure of the individual in his life's work. Men of middle age who have tried and failed have very often suffered major discouragement because the members of the family had too little faith in what they could do. Homes are unsatisfactory where ambition to maintain an expensive standard of living overtops common sense. This condition is most common in homes with grown-up children who have friends with a larger income than their own. In this striving to do and appear as prosperous as the well-to-do friends too many makeshifts and subterfuges are necessary to make self respect easy or satisfactory. Uusually, however, this period of stress or strain is short lived, as the native common sense of the parents finally proves convincing that more satisfaction results from being one's self than from aping others. Perhaps, however, the home most to be pitied is the one of the newly married couple who have accumulated a mountain of debts and worries to the detriment of the happiness which should be theirs. Pride in possessions which are not paid for has been the cause of financial and marital ruin to many young couples. This failure to meet obligations not only injures them, but the resultant loss to furniture stores and automobile dealers makes honest people pay some of the bills which resulted from an over ambition to display. Part. Of the responsibility of the home is to convince young people that a small WHAT CAN WE EXPECT? 495 salary cannot possibly be stretched to pay living expenses that can only come out of a salary twice as large as their own." The selfish home has very few common interests. Each member does as he pleases regardless of the rights or feelings of others. No one is inclined to put himself out to help someone else. The spirit is dominantly selfish and unsatisfactory. Chores, work and various duties are done grudgingly because the spirit of cooperation is wholly lacking. Family pleasures, excursions or picnics are as foreign to this type of home as the North Pole. There is little personal interest in the comings and goings of the other members of the family. Groups of this type have not learned a fundamental social principle that "The things we do together make us one." A "House" is not a Home By Josie E. Childs Yes! I do love the dear old "House," Built out upon the farm, Where we can sleep with open doors, Without a thought of harm. The vine clad porch and banks of flowers, And rockers here and there, With books and strains of music That ease our load of care. Yes, all these added to a "House," From cellar to the dome, Will change the attitude of all And make the "House" a home. Utah Dixie's Pioneers By George A. English Oh! That I may make you to understand, How pioneers made Utah's Dixie Land. Where only one could see from day to day, Sharp cactus, thorned "mosquite" and Joshua; With lava rocks in great high ridges piled, That flung across the lee for mile on mile. Scarce green was seen in that most barren waste, And yet they dared to live in such a place. When these brave men stood on the desert's rim, What rugged thoughts think you occurred to them? What wondrous visions did these travelers see, When they gazed forth into eternity? On the lofty rim their free way was blocked, By ledges high with crags and lava rocks. How could they hope te reach the desert floor, Below a depth of three thousand feet or more? Down devious trails which Indians knew, These brave frontiersmen drove their oxen through. Their wheels of wagons thonged and tightly bound, With strong ropes tied well the axles round,: With cables strong they did the wagons lower, Safely down to the great vast desert floor. Passing onward they reached the journey's end, The only destiny they'd comprehend. Onward they pressed, onward from day to day, While naught could their determined progress stay. It was a task most Herculean to face, To build fit roads through that great desert waste. Huge lava rocks in heat of burning sun, Would face them whichever way they'd turn. Through mountains with high rocks and boulders strewn, Undaunted yet, crude passage roads were hewn. They halted not at hills to be displaced, Nor yet at soft sand doons to be effaced. Wagons were dragged to journey's end at last, By oxen wearied of the heavy task. What hardships these courageous souls endured, Rich blessings for the future to procure; For wealth is limited since creation, By methods and by means of transportation. How slow their pace, how little gained each day, While nature battled hard their right-of-way. Though they had none, they marked a future trail, That a recovered land might yet prevail. May those who speed through Utah's Dixie Land, Mark the debt they owe those intrepid bands. Note well the way, as Utah you pass through, What these most sturdy settlers did for you. It were well to pause a brief bit of time, And view the way o'er which your cars have climbed, And note how weary oxen sore have passed, With loads of all their masters had possessed. UTAH DIXIE'S PIONEERS 497 Many had left their homes and native land, To reclaim this vast waste for fellow man., Still pressed they on, with anxious hopes deferred And murmured never once a single word, Ever striving to well obey God's laws, And living faithful to His Holy Cause. So this great desert land is rarely blessed, And weary people here may find their rest. \ As their necessities less pressing grew, They thanked their God that He had brought them through. Their blessings, though still meagre for their needs, Were all with true and sincere thanks received. There were no idlers in that moving train, For all did work with earnest might and main; Father, mother, as well as children too, Had all a will the desert to subdue. The task was near beyond the power of man, To master and subdue such barren land. But by their faith and trust in Mighty God, They finally reclaimed it rod by rod. Water by toil and labor they secured, The ground they plowed, and sowed, and crops matured. Till then there was but drought and burning heat, Naught grew but cruel cactus and "mosquite." For months and years did they all need to toil, To bring the welcome water to the soil. As they still conquered hardships one by one, It seemed their battles could not all be done. The oppreéssing toils they all so well endured, A good productive country was secured. They suffered hardships we cannot conceive, This vast expanse of country to retrieve. No great storehouses were there ready filled, In this desert place which they came to till, Every morsel by hard unyielding toil, ° Was won from that dry and forbidding soil. The true devotion to complete the task, Has in all history ne'er been surpassed. The greatest courage that was ever known, Was by their noble suffering women shown. No greater fortitude and sterling worth, 'Was shown since Eve bore children here on earth. Through the greatest hardships they prevailed, These brave and noble women never failed. Their love for God it was that made them try To keep all His commandments, and ask not why. For they believed His blessed Word in whole, Nor ever did they prate of birth control. No greater battles have men ever fought, Nor greater triumphs have they ever wrought. And always by their fruits shall they be known, For such devotion do they stand alone. Naught can enhance their rich glory more, Than do their sons and daughters which they bore. These nearly all have passed to their reward, Their memory is incense to the Lord.