[Vol56 | April 1969 | Page 313 | General Feature | Hobby Features— Annie N. Morrill and Mary Ann M. Allred | Lesson Department]
[Hobby Features— Annie N. Morrill and Mary Ann M. Allred Lesson Department]

A yard free from all unnecessary clutter 

313 April 1969

 3. Walks and entrances well swept and free from dirt, ice, or excess moisture. 4. Hose and other gardening equipment inconspicuously placed or housed. Trees and shrubs pruned and trimmed. 6. Garden plots and_ shrubbery kept free from weeds and undergrowth. Outdoor living space made pleasant to look at in all seasons, with appropriate planting, arbors, fences, and other such features. (A well-kept patio adds to outside enjoyment.) 8. Fences, gates, and walls kept neat and in good repair. 9. Garden furniture, urns, flower boxes, and other embellishments in good repair and_ properly placed and arranged. (A garden or grounds should never' be crowded with bric-a-brac. Garden furnishings should be adequate and functional and should add to, not detract from, its overall appearance.) on "I HOW CAN WE ACHIEVE BEAUTY IN OUR GARDENS AND GROUNDS? Like any worthwhile project, a successful garden requires time and effort on the part of those who would achieve this goal. Many people, even when they can afford to consult a professional landscape architect or to hire a gardener, want the satisfaction which comes from doing their own gardening and experiencing the excitement which follows. Homes with small plots of ground hold opportunities for development as interesting and as beautiful as the larger places, and certainly the rewards are just as great. It is surprising how many useful and _ attractive features can be worked into the comparatively small home grounds if planned for carefully. 314 ottingham Nattingh Lace Caltlecloths Famous throughout the world.

Cotton lace 55x70" $6.50 70''x90" 7.50 108''x90"' 8.50 Terylene 70"x90" 9.50 All Post Charges Paid. Leach and Tooley 65 Mill Road Newthorpe Nottingham, England New Magazine Binding Prices and Postage Rates A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover - $3.50; Leather Cover - $5.50 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone land2 _-_.555 Zone5 __-_..75 Zone3 _~___._.60 Zone6 ____-..85 Zone4 __._._.65 Zone7.__.-.95 Zone8__.- -1.05 a. DESERET FREws PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892 Continental Trailways Escorted Tours HISTORIC EAST 19 Days from Salt Lake City 6 Departures during July Famous places of historic interest to members of the L. D. S. Church as well as the standard scenic attractions of the areas visited. You'll travel via: e CHICAGO ¢ NIAGARA FALLS e PALMYRA PAGEANT e NEW YORK CITY e WASHINGON D. C. E RICHMOND e ST. LOUIS CANADIAN ROCKIES 15 Days from Salt Lake City Departure Date: August 15 e BANFF « LAKE LOUISE e JASPER NAT'L. PARK AND ICEFIELDS ¢ VANCOUVER e VICTORIA © SEATTLE These are just a few of many scenic attractions you'll visit on these escorted tours. All transportation on air-conditioned, rest room equipped Silver Eagle® motorcoaches;: deluxe hotel accommodations; many sightseeing excursions as well as the services of a guide-escort on each tour. For detailed brochures, contact your travel agent, local Continental Trailways agent or: 77 WEST SOUTH TEMPLE SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 84101 328-8121 Continental © Trailways GOUPS 0 Lesson Department These include facilities for lounging, cooking, dining, working, playing, and even sleeping— not to mention herb and vegetable plots or compost heaps. The following suggestions might be helpful whatever the situation. Whether we are just beginning our home planting or whether we are simply improving existing home surroundings we should carefully plan and then carry out the development in a gradual, orderly way that will not be too costly at any one time. Existing trees suggest where to establish the flower beds, terrace, lawn, and service features of the property. The city garden, regardless of its type, needs enclosure to insure privacy. In situations where it is impractical to have growing garden plots and lawns, plants may be grown in containers or in soil pockets made in the paving. Hedges, shrubbery borders, fences, and garden walls are used to extend the privacy of the house to the property lines. A kitchen garden of salad vegetables and culinary herbs can be a delightful and practical addition somewhere near the kitchen entrance. (Sometimes these useful plants can be attractively interspersed in the gardens themselves.) Cooperation with neighbors and friends can result in exchange of plants and flowers. (Many a magnificent rose garden has resulted from slips from the stems of gift roses or of those from a friend's garden.) Seeds which will supply a complete flower garden can be obtained at small cost. (Early planting of seeds indoors will supply bedding plants.) Seed-bearing plants will yield seed which can be planted to produce beds. Ground covers which spread rapidly can be obtained for little or no cost Family cooperation can result in garden projects to beautify and improve the grounds. CONCLUSION Our gardens and_ grounds, however, large or small, not only form the setting for our homes; 

315 April 1969

 Hill Cumorah Pageant 3 TOURS departing Salt Lake City — July 19 for 16 days — $279.00 July 26 for 20 days — $359.00 July 12 for 24 days — $395.00 (July 12 tour includes Canada) EXPERIENCED ESCORTS ON ALL TOURS our best tour to HAWAII Annual "ALOHA WEEK TOUR" escorted by owner, GARY MITCHELL 14 days departing SLC Oct. 20 — returning SLC Nov. 2 TEMPLE SESSIONS INCLUDED TOURS FOUR DIFFERENT ISLANDS Request itineraries and assistance for all travel needs from HOLIDAY AWAY Travel Service Suite 301, 136 South Main St. Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Telephone 328-8981 formerly Margaret Lund Travel Service aS PE "BB SL WET MUSIC COMPANY 'Singing Mothers'' ''Choir Directors"' We specialize in Mail Order Service Sheet Music Pianos And Supplies Come in and Acquaint yourself with our music department Home of the world's finest Mason and Hamlin pianos Yes! We Ship All Over the World. -NEW ADDRESS- 65 South West Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Phone: 364-6518 Instruments 316 they are also an essential part of them. In addition to these important functions, they serve in other ways to enhance our daily living. They bring beauty and repose from the burdens of the day; they provide nourishment for the soul as well as for the body; they are a source of hospitality to our families and our friends. If we, like the Persians of old, cherish our gardens and take pride in their care and appearance, we, also, will find in them a paradise on earth.

This one day of simple service (Was I meant for better things?) by itself can count as nothing; yet, a certitude it brings that this day of willing service, multiplied a hundredfold in the tender care of others, and repeated till I'm old, does not count as one day given in the holy courts above; This is not a house I'm keeping— it's my monument to love. —Evalyn M. Sandberg *K NOTE TO THE FIELD New Prices for Binding The Relief Society Magazine The new prices for binding the year's copies of The Relief Society Magazine at the Deseret News Press are as follows: Cloth Cover $3.50 Leather Cover $5.50 For address and postage rates, see the Deseret News Press advertisement on page 314 EOE eGC~"sTEO April 1969 DEAUIIFUL All Grain 4 Stone & Ground Flour Mill For full information, ' write Dept. R. S. Gam P. O. Box 115. Tremonton, Utah 84337 PLAN YOUR VACATION WITH US Annual Tours * California Holiday July Sth-1 6th Hill Conerci Pamworit 16 days and 23 days leaving July 26th ¥% Black Hills Passion Play August 17th-24th * Canadian Rockies and Northwest August 18th-31st * Hawaiian Aloha Week October 12th-25th Call or Write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 What would you give for an easy way to teach your child the GOSPEL? In a medium range for children 3 to 9. Ideal for mothers, teachers, and family home evenings to teach the gospel to children. Songs like ''Easter is a Happy Time of Year,'' ''Faitn,'' ''Someday I'll Be a Missionary,'' ''Why Do I Say My Prayers."' Available at your local bookstore or write: Singing with Joy 965 North 8th West Salt Lake City, Utah 84116 318 Here's a Bargain for only Simple, easy to learn songs $9 50 "Add 15¢ postage and 8¢ tax. BERNINA MADE IN SWITZE " RLAND 7 o were Precision engineered to give trouble-free convenience for all your sewing needs. Now you can Blind Hem Stitch, Stretch Stitch, Baste Stitch, Tailor Tack, Buttonhole, Darn, Fancy ZigZag Stitch, Applique without cam changing! Plus Bernina gives you many more convenience features THERE'S A BERNINA JUST RIGHT FOR YOUR SEWING NEEDS... ATA PRICE JUST RIGHT FOR YOUR FAMILY BUDGET! * No tension adjustment required to sew on all types of material, awh? Regardless of weight. A OK — & ae: ° CB Shuttle eliminates thread jamming — a Bernina exclusive for greatest sewing convenience. * Patented snap-on feet makes needle changing quick and easy with a simple twist. * True stretch stitching. ¢ Plus many, many, other Bernina features! FREE Send the coupon below to the address shown for a free copy of the 50 picture. Full color brochure FULL that gives you the full story on the Bernina Sewing COLOR Machine No obligation. Of course! Jr eee eee BROCHURE I BERNINA IMPORTERS RS 4/69! I I 70 South Orchard Drive North Salt Lake, Utah 84054 Pree 8 eee - PUBIBRESS -_ gee..--.----cege--- ne eee eee CITY STATE ZIP. Creative Playthingsoe e ($2.25) 4 ($2.75) This 3 year old (on the left) is fascinated with the problem of lining up holes with the pegs of the NUMBER SORTER which is designed for children 2-5. The MATCH MATE set by her side provides number experience by matching jig-saw pieces. Every ward Relief Society nursery needs toys. NOW Deseret Book is proud to announce that their 'Creative Playthings Department" can supply this need. Creative Playthings are hardwood toys durable enough to withstand heavy duty use. They are age classified and have been selected by educators in over 45,000 schools as toys to stimulate a joyful for Ward (R.5.) Nurseries ($2.50) The baby is learning to grasp and feel the difference in shapes and texture with the two HEDGEHOGS and CLUTCH BALL. The boys, ages 2 and 3% are playing with just two of many instructional transportation toys designed with moving parts for ages 2-8. Interest in learning from infancy to early adolescence in music transportation drama doll play science and building blocks of all sizes and shapes. Send for our free catalog, 'Creative Playthings, Guide to Toy Selection" NOW! Or see them at Deseret Book Store, 44 East South Temple when you attend April conference. DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110, or 777 South Main, Orange, California 92668 Please send me items circled 123 4 5 6 Total Cost $ 0000000000..I enclose check [] money order [] Charge established account [J Residents of Utah ordering from Salt Lake add 312% sales tax residents of California add 5% tax when ordering from Orange. Apr. R. S. Mag. 69 Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah -