[Vol56 | April 1969 | Page 285 | General Feature | Black Satin and Love Ada | Stonely Yates]
[Black Satin and Love Ada Stonely Yates]

She is attracted to Steve Rey, the son of her mother's close friend, but Jim Long, whom she met in Houston, is competing for her attentions. A phone call in the dead of the night summons the family to the hospital where her mother has been put due to complications. M After the first tears at the shock of losing her mother, Jennifer's composure was marvelous, and beneficial to the rest of the family. She set about the tasks before her with serenity and a calmness that, at times, amazed even herself. She had been grateful to have Bea there for those first difficult weeks. The older woman's quiet, unobtrusive assistance and compassionate understanding were 286 UT Chapter 6 most welcome, and aided Jennifer in getting her bearings for the months ahead. By the time Bea returned to Houston, Jennifer was in firm control. It was a bright day in late September. Jennifer stepped outside for a breath of air. It was autumn. That had been _ her mother's favorite time of year. The valley lay clothed in colorful beauty, and harvest time was near. The air was no _ longer heavy with the stifling heat of summer, nor had the nip of winter begun to appear. It was a pleasant time. For more than a month, Jennifer had been manager of the household. She was so grateful that her mother had seen fit to prepare her for this, even though, at the time, she had not known the preparation process was taking place gradually and surely. She was glad that she remembered so many of the talks she had had with her mother during those last months. She could better understand the personalities and needs of her father and the boys, because her mother had given her so much insight and meaningful advice on how to cope with certain situations. She had always said to welcome the task that takes you beyond yourself, and now Jennifer knew that this was such a task. She sighed very deeply. The set of her jaw was solid. There was a job that must be done, and it was her responsibility. The decisions she made now, and the methods she used in handling the situations that were bound to arise, would have a profound effect on her three brothers, even upon their eternal progression. She knew that it was only a matter of time before the deep shock of their mother's death wore off, and that their reverence would be replaced by normalcy, that her authority would be challenged. Common _ sense told her that each of them had a mind of his own, and none of them was perfect. Fortunately, they had been well brought up, but the removal of their mother's influence from their lives would leave a void, and they would try their wings, and there would be problems to solve for life was full of challenges, anyway, she thought. In her new role as homemaker for the family, Jennifer had little time to ponder her own future. She had a responsibility to fulfill, and she knew that she had been guided toward this. Welcome the Task There was little romance in her relationship with Steve at this time, but he had been a tremendous help to her. The thing which disturbed Jennifer most was that her father seemed lost and totally disinterested in what was going on about him. He barely noticed that the meals she prepared were nutritious and attractively presented, or that the house was as spotless and beautiful as it had ever been. But far more serious was the fact that he took no interest in the boys, who needed him now more than ever. This was Dave's important senior year, and as captain of the football team, he was an important man about the school, and as small towns go, he was somewhat of a hero to many people. He was beginning to take a real interest in girls, and needed a man's advice and encouragement. Jennifer was unable to fill the role of both mother and father. It was at this point Steve came to her rescue. Jennifer was sitting on the front porch trying to plan the coming week's menu, but lost in her own thoughts. "Why so solemn, Jenny?" he asked, seating himself on the step beside her. "Oh, Steve," she said, "I just don't know what to do. Dad doesn't seem to take any interest in what's going on around here, and the boys need him. I can't seem to reach him at all." "He's really lost without your mother, isn't he?" "Yes, and I knew he would be, but I can't bear to see the boys suffer this way, too. I can under- 

287 April 1969

 stand how it is for Dad, but I don't think I can explain it to them, for they've lost their mother, who gave them every ounce of love she had, and it can't be replaced." "Is there a specific problem right now?" Steve asked. "Well, nothing has been said, but I can sense that Dave feels as though he may as well not even try. It was Dad who interested him in football. I know something about the game, but not enough to be anything but enthusiastic. He wants to discuss plays and such, and Pete and Sam just don't know enough about it, and all Dad gives him is vague attention." "There I can be of some help," Steve said rising. "Is he in the house?" Jennifer nodded and watched him disappear. She hated to burden Steve with all her problems, but he was always helpful. With Jim, she could relax and enjoy an evening and forget about the pressures at home, but Steve always took action, and she always felt free to tell him about the latest uproar in the family. She wondered about her feelings for the two young men. She depended heavily upon Steve, and his coming over several times a week, if only briefly, to be of help or keep her company. Occasionally, they would go someplace. If he knew about Jim, he said nothing, although he had been over several times when she was out with Jim. Jim had the uncanny knack for making her laugh. He was brilliant both in his studies and his handling of people. He would make a fine lawyer, she thought. 288 Nothing would stand in the way of his success, and he had his future mapped out nearly to the finest detail. Several times he had hinted that Jennifer could share in that future, but she had not encouraged such conversation, for her father and her brothers were her major concern for the time being. She thought about the night of his fraternity party. It had been a costume affair, and Jim had suggested they go as Raggedy Ann and Raggedy Andy. In the little spare time she could muster between the study load she was carrying, the housework, and her Church obligations, she had made them costumes that had turned out, even she admitted, extremely well. She had been somewhat hesitant when Jim suggested in the middle of the party that they go to the student union center to go bowling. She had told him how embarrassing it would be to have people staring at them. "Nonsense," he insisted. "It's Halloween night, what could be more perfect? We could go trick or treating, if you would rather." Another couple had joined in, and they had indeed gone trick or treating around the other sorority and fraternity houses. Even Jennifer admitted that it had been fun. However, Jim still insisted that they go bowling afterwards, and the other couple joined them. After a while Jennifer forgot everything but the good time she was having. She could momentarily forget that Dave's homecoming game was to be soon, and that his father might not attend. She could forget about the test that she must take Monday, and must pass well above average to qualify for student teaching. There were many things she could forget in that moment of merriment. On the way home they were still in a gay mood. Jim glanced at her and commented, "Jenny, you need to laugh like this more often, you let things bother you too much." "What do you mean, Jim?" "You worry too much about your brothers and your father, you've got to think of yourself, too, you know." "Oh, Jim," she insisted, "I do. And I'm finishing school as I have always wanted to. They are all wonderful about helping me." "T still think you work too hard. I wish I could think of a way to make it easier. You stick with me, honey, and you'll never want for anything. As soon as I get my degree, I'll have it made." Jennifer didn't like talk like this. For several weeks he had been putting on gentle pressure, and dropping little hints she wasn't ready for. Whenever Steve was around the house when Jim came, he started out the evening just a little sullen, yet he had known better than to demand that she not allow Steve to come. For this she was grateful, for she did enjoy Jim's company, but she enjoyed Steve's help and companionship also. "Look Jim, a shooting star." "Make a wish, Jenny." "I wish I didn't have to study for a test tomorrow, and that you would turn up the radio just a little, I love that song." A flash of lightning interrupted her reminiscing. She so hoped Welcome the Task that it wouldn't rain for Dave's game tomorrow. Her father wouldn't be home but Steve was taking his mother, Jennifer, Pete, and Sam over to Provo. It could be the deciding factor in the State championship. ' Jennifer sighed and went back to her menu planning. It was hard to plan around the likes and dislikes of the three boys, especially Sam. She knew that her mother made them eat what was placed before them, and measured dessert portions by the size of vegetable portions, but she had tried to avoid confrontations by cooking what everyone liked. She knew that sooner or later, however, an issue was bound to come up. She had attempted to discuss household budgeting with her father, but he had merely told her to use what she needed, for there was plenty. Jennifer, frugal by nature, had put herself on a budget that would challenge her creativity somewhat. Just as she finished the shopping list, Steve returned. "I think I helped a little, Jenny. But you're right. He has college and a mission facing him very soon, and he needs to share his success and failures with someone." "I guess I am just going to have to try harder," she sighed wearily. "You try too hard already, Jenny," Steve said, gently placing an arm about her shoulder. "I wish I could help you more." "You've helped me more than you'll ever know, Steve, and I appreciate it so much." She was amazed to find tears very near the surface. 

289 April 1969

 Steve sensed this and pulled her closer, his jaw tightening noticeably. He said nothing as Jennifer shed the tears that had been locked away for so long. Wordlessly he handed her a handkerchief. When, at last, she had regained her self-control, she looked up at him. His eyes were a steely gray and there was a faraway look in them. "I'm sorry, Steve, I guess I'm just tired." "Don't be sorry, Jenny," he said tenderly. "Don't ever be sorry for that." He kissed her gently and bade her farewell, turning to wave as he closed the gate. "See you tomorrow," he called softly. Jennifer found the days becoming increasingly more difficult. She continued with the typing for Dr. Moran, although at times it was a toilsome task to keep up with the housework, schoolwork, and the typing. "T declare," she told Nyta Rey one afternoon over a glass of tart lemonade, "I didn't realize those boys owned so many shirts and trousers." "You really should let me help you, Jenny, I don't keep too busy with just Steve and myself." Jennifer smiled. "You've helped in sO many ways as it is. No, I can handle this ironing. It was never one of my favorite tasks, but I'm learning to like it more and more. I'm just glad they aren't girls." "Well, just this little piece of advice then. You make certain that those boys can at least iron a shirt passably before you send them out to the mission field." "Oh, I will Sister Rey." I Nyta was about to leave. 290 "Don't you think it is time you called me _ something besides Sister Rey?" she asked. "I']l try to remember, it's hard after so long," Jennifer smiled, liking Steve's mother more each day. "Well, call me Nyta, anyway. Although I would like it to be Mom someday." Jennifer picked up the meaning of this pointed remark and blushed. She wondered if any remarks like that were made to Steve, and what his reactions were, probably a loving brush-off, she guessed. She wished she didn't blush so much when someone suggested that she might like to become Mrs. Rey. It never embarrassed her when Pete asked if she was really going to marry that "Long fellow," but when he reminded her that Steve was a pretty terrific fellow, she could feel the redness creep into her cheeks. Then Sam would call everyone's attention to the fact that Jennifer was blushing, and she would turn redder and redder. She wouldn't be surprised if the entire neighborhood knew the goings on of the Miles household, at least when Sam commented upon anything. She was surprised one evening when Dave came in to give a helping hand with the dishes. "Why thank you," she said, genuinely pleased. He had been so quiet lately that she was worried about him. He began somewhat awkwardly. "I know Dad will be out of town again next week, but on Thursday we're having this play at school, and I have this date with Kathy—you don't know her," he added hastily. Jennifer was interested. "And you need some money or my ear?" "Oh, no, it's not that. I still have plenty of the money I saved from my job for spending, and as soon as football season is over I'll be working Saturdays again." Jennifer looked at his handsome face. It was flushed. She was very certain that he was going to ask a favor of her, but what, she had no idea. "Well, uh," he began again. "T_well, I was wondering if you would mind if she came over to dinner that night. I want you to meet her and all," he rushed on. "Why, Dave, I would be delighted to have her come. We all would," she added. "It's nice that you want us to meet her. I'm only sorry Dad can't be here." Dave ducked his head and mumbled, "Don't be, it doesn't matter to him anyway." Jennifer knew that this could not go on. She vowed that she Welcome the Task was going to have a talk with her father. It had been more than three months now, and his sons needed him, and so did she. Her angry thoughts were interrupted by Dave. "Another thing. Do you think you could invite Steve, or that other fellow if you'd rather, then it wouldn't look like she was on display or something?" Jennifer smiled. "Of course. And how about if we invite Nyta that night. It might be nice to have an adult around." Jennifer began mentally to plan what she would serve. Once more Dave interrupted. "Would you talk to Sam and keep him from making comments?" Jennifer promised, resisting the temptation to remind him of the many times he had embarrassed her in front of a young man. She didn't wish to run the risk of having him cut himself off again, now that an opening had been made. Jennifer was pleasantly surprised to find her father willing to listen and most cooperative as she approached him nervously about the family problem of which he was so much a part. When she told him about the dinner, he offered to cut the trip short and be home that evening. He would indeed put forth more effort on behalf of his family, he promised. Jennifer wished that she had approached him earlier, he was so cooperative. It made her heart lighter to think that things were really improving around the house. It was a good feeling. (To be continued) 291 292 pet EEE shear We ys 'NN ae 1968 a ¥ Magazine Honor Roll 3% Ay Counselor Marianne C. Sharp i! "223355, as os "PORT" @ The 13,513 increase in the number of Relief Society Magazine subscriptions in English as of August 31, 1968 over August 31, 1967, testifies to the faithful devoted services of stake and ward Magazine representatives working under the inspired leadership of their respective presidencies. The General Board seeks to include features in the Magazine which will appeal to Latter-day Saint women of different ages living in different countries under differing conditions. It is interesting and helpful for the editorial department to receive comments from women in different countries, even though not all of them can find space in the ''From Near and Far'' department. In planning future issues their suggestions are taken into consideration as the space in the Magazine allows. One sister writes she is not interested in the fiction but enjoys the lessons.