[Vol56 | April 1969 | Page 281 | General Feature | Birthday Congratulations The Home— Inside and Out | ]
NOAPWNE 278 BN Woman's Ramona W. Cannon Belle S. Spafford, General President of Relief Society, also President, National Council of Women of the United States, was honored in Washington, D. C. In January 1969 by — Mrs. Robert Law Bacon, a prominent Washingtonian. Wives of Cabinet members, wives of several members of Congress, women newly appointed to high governmental posts, wives of many foreign ambassadors, women community and social leaders, representatives of the International Council of Women both from foreign countries and the United States, were invited to Mrs. Bacon's home to meet Mrs. Spafford who assumed her post as President of the National Council of Women of the United States in October. Two Latter-day Saint women are wives of members of President Richard M. Nixon's cabinet: Lenora Bingham Kennedy, wife of David M. Kennedy, Secretary of the Treasury, and Lenore La Fount Romney, wife of George Romney, former governor of Michigan and now Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development. Mrs. Kennedy, born in Ogden, grew up there with her future husband. Mother of four daughters, she moved to Illinois, with her family in 1946, where she became a member of the Women's Board of the University of Chicago. She has been very active in genealogical research, also in both the Relief Society and the Mutual Improvement Association programs. Mrs. Romney, born in Salt Lake City, attended George Washington University while her father was a member of the National Radio Commission (Predecessor of the Federal Communications Commission), then was a student at the American Laboratory School of the Theater in New York City. For a time she was a moving picture actress with Metro-Goldwin-Mayer. Married in 1931, she is the mother of two sons and two daughters. She has been an active campaigner with her husband in his political life, and was highly praised as a speaker by the national press. She has been a very active and capable worker in the Church. Mrs. Patricia Nixon looked very earnest as she held two family Bibles, one atop the other, upon which her husband, Richard M.

[Birthday Congratulations The Home— Inside and Out]

Nixon, swore the inaugural o
