The Cover: Frontispiece: Art Layout: Illustrations: Matterhorn and Riffels Transparency by Camet Lithographed in Full Colé Calla Lilies Photograph by Don Knight Dick Scopes ' Mary Scopes LET ME BE FREE Let me be free! For there are stars to lean upon And newer worlds with lovelier songs to sing. Long have I companied the world and hungered, Thinking to find them in earth's fostering. Let me be free! For there are ways untrammeled, As there are lilies with their petals still unblown; And always thoughts like heartbeats calling. Write, write, for we are yet unknown. Let me be free! With words like rainswept meadows, Performing truth, unalterable, sublime; Unwritten, save in hearts of heroes; Let me be free to manifest in rhyme! —Linnie F. Robinson Speaking as a nonmember of the Church, I would like to pay tribute to The Relief

Society Magazine. It certainly meets the spiritual and inspirational needs of women

the world over. May I tell you as a wife and mother I have grown in skills and knowledge.

Most important, with a humble heart, I can bear testimony that every issue bears

witness of "By their fruits ye shall know them."

Marian Pappas, Binghamton, New York

I have been a subscriber to The Relief Society Magazine since I can't remember when,

and I read it during my growingup years. My mother, a widow with nine children

to support, still found enough money to subscribe for the Magazine. I read the Magazine

almost through before I put it down. I especially love the poetry. I took nurse

training before my marriage, and the lessons on nursing have helped me to review

my training so that I can better care for my children.

Bertha Rollins, Selma, Alabama

Each year I have become more thrilled with the wonderful Relief Society Magazine. In

the January 1969 issue, the article on the Giant System in genealogical research is

greatly appreciated. I have been privileged to work as an officer and teacher in the

Relief Society at various times, as well as in callings in genealogical work. There is a

great need for Relief Society sisters to be more mindful of their "living" dead. Too

often this work is set aside for a future day which does not arrive.

Lucile M. Struiksma, San Diego, California

May I express my appreciation for the lovely Relief Society Magazine. The stories and

articles, as well as the lessons, are an inspiration to me. I read the entire Magazine

from cover to cover. Lucille Tilton, St. David, Arizona

I am not a member of your Church, and yet I receive The Relief Society Magazine. It

was a gift to me from one of your nicest members— Marilyn Grant. She is a delightful

person, warmhearted, devout, honest, and kind. When, out of her kindness, Marilyn

made me a present of a subscription, I found the Magazine to represent much the

same values and qualities my friend has. As I read the Magazine and put it away, it

refuses to remain away. I find myself reflecting on some of its lessons and modifying

my behavior along some of its tenets. My dear friend is away now as she has been for

two years and will be for two more— for her husband's work has taken the family to

Holland. However, each month when I receive my Magazine, it is almost as if Marilyn

had returned for a visit. Thank you for this publication.

Carolyn Orr, Campbell, California

It is hard to find a Magazine with the good in it that The Relief Society Magazine has.

I belong to the Lutheran Church, but am happy to read material of such high quality,

and I will pass the Magazine along to be read by others.

Miss Alice Tribhan), Galesburg, Illinois

I am one of your long-time readers, as well as a member of Relief Society for more

than fifty years. I enjoy the Magazine in my leisure hours, which are many now. I

think the Magazine does a great service for women, and I send wishes for many more

years of service. Magdalene C. Stephens, Salt Lake City, Utah

I greatly enjoyed the story in the February Magazine "A Day for Diddle Daddling,"

by Alice Morrey Bailey. There is naturalness and reality in this story and effective

representation of characters. Love to you, Alice, and all your "diddle-daddling"

friends. Rosa Lee Lloyd, Salt Lake City, Utah

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1969 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be rétained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 243