EDITORIAL Salt Lake Region Welfare Meeting WELFARE leaders of the Salt Lake Region were given a rich opportunity for enlarged vision of the Church Welfare Program and for renewed stimulation and encouragement in carrying it forward at a special welfare meeting held in Salt Lake City, Tuesday, February 7, 1944. Independence on the part of all was defined as the "hope and ultimate goal for which the Church has been striving during these past years'; and production, above and beyond what would be produced "except for the measures we are taking" was given as the practical method whereby the emergent needs of the day may best be met and the ideals of the Program realized. The care of the poor was designated "the job of the bishop," and the Welfare Program was declared to have been inaugurated to help the bishop perform his function. In discussing the production phase of the Program, President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Referred to the comfort and satisfaction of each one having his own "stock pile," stating that "this policy of having a year's provisions ahead is just as old as our presence in the mountains." But in addition to this, said President Clark, as far as the Church is concerned there should be a Welfare stock pile out of which the Church could take care of its members who Page 220 cannot provide for themselves, those who are in need. There is, of course, a national stock pile consisting of practically all food that is industrially produced. "I feel," advised President Clark, "that where we do have our family stock pile we should quit drawing upon the national stock pile, and let that become more plentiful for those who do not have and, under some circumstances, cannot have a family stock pile." He further stated that everything we put into the Church Welfare stock pile "just relieves the national stock pile that much, and it should be so understood and we should approach it in that kind of spirit and that kind of way." The advantage of producing over contributing money to the Program was Clearly pointed out, and Church members were urged not to be satisfied with merely making money contributions. Elder Harold B. Lee of the Council of the Twelve, managing director of the Church Welfare Program, pointed out some of the obstacles that have impeded progress in the Program and interfered with the realization of some of its ideals, and showed why and how these obstacles must be removed. He said: "The Lord's ways are not man's ways, and the more we school the people of this Church to learn to not merely take the course of least resistance, EDITORIAL but to act as a perpetual revolution against all pursuits and all philosophies that are contrary to God's divine plan, then and then only may we hope to claim the blessings of our Heavenly Father." Other addresses, including that of Elder Marion G. Romney, assistant director of the Program, added materially to an understanding of the details of the Program, particularly as it is worked out in the Salt Lake Region, and should result in 221 increased appreciation and a greater will to do. Relief Society women are thoroughly converted to the Church Welfare Program. This is evidenced by their attitudes and generous contributions to it. The acknowledgement of the valuable part they are playing, and the commendation of their efforts by those who are leading in this great work were highly pleasing. ?BSS. ? FROM A MAGAZINE READER The . Dear Friends: February 7, 1944 My wife's aunt has sent us your Magazine. Your Editorial in the issue is good. The State I live in has very good farm land. We have many industries and factory towns. We see too many children who forget the old folks that started them out, forget them in times of prosperity and run home for assistance when times become slack, borrow from them and forget to repay, so they can buy new cars and other things, and when the old folks have been bled poor they put them on the County to let live the best they can. My father was bedfast for five years, most of it during the depression. It was tough going. After he passed away, my mother wanted to be out working but I stopped that. She attended church and all other things that an old person likes to do. She told me that she was having the time of her life. She lost her life in an accident. I might have been many dollars ahead, but that one compliment is the best pay I will ever get. Yours truly, W. M. J.?Indiana. WATCH THE WASTE BASKET You wouldn't knowingly throw away a parachute, but you probably never stopped to realize that the morning newspaper if salvaged could help make one. Paper parachutes are now being used to drop food and equipment from planes to men in difficult terrain. "Invasion raincoats" are made of paper, too, so that the boys who wear them can throw them away on landing. This innovation came from the discovery that moisture from the air in a cross channel flight can add as much as five pounds to the weight of a man's clothing. And, of course, there are a hundred other uses for waste paper: Packaging food, blood plasma and vital supplies; to plug and protect machine gun nozzles; for bomb bands and shell cases. - + + paper salvage is a long term problem and should be part of regular household routine.?Women's Club News Service, . WATCH YOUR LOCAL NEWSPAPERS FOR PAPER COLLECTIONS. NOTES T0 THE FIELD Relief Society?Stake Quarterly Conference In stakes where the regular sessions of Stake Quarterly Conference are concluded in the afternoon and where an additional evening session is planned, auxiliary organizations, if invited by the stake presidency, may share in the use of this Sunday evening session. The following schedule for participation in the 1944 Quarterly Conferences has been adopted by the auxiliaries: Primary Association? Genealogical Society? Third Quarter June 3?September Society?