General Secretary-Treasurer Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes from the Field" appear in the Magazine for , page 104. MESSAGES FROM THE MISSIONS New England Mission OLLOWING are excerpts from a recent letter from Bertha S. Reeder, mission Relief Society president, and Elder Kenneth W. Porter, mission Relief Society supervisor: "During 1943 seven new Societies were organized, as follows: Augusta, Maine; Concord, New Hampshire; Hyde Park, Massachusetts; Litchfield, Maine; Newport, Rhode Island; Danforth, Maine; and Eaton, Maine. "The two latter groups, being in northern Maine where deep snows make the holding of meetings extremely difficult, are not now functioning. The meetings which were held, however, did much to fill the needs of those who participated and were, thus, profitable. The new Societies in some of these places are the only Church meetings being held and are valuable in maintaining faith and unity. "Fine anniversary meetings, bazaars, and branch conferences were held in most places of the mission during the year. The sisters of the branches where we have recently purchased chapels are working diligently to improve and beautify these buildings, and have done much to Page 232 stimulate increased interest on the part of other members. "Due to quite a strict curtailment of gasoline we have not been able to visit each branch as frequently as desired.... With the great reduction in our missionary force, it will be necessary for our Relief Societies to carry on with even less supervision than before, but most of them are now fairly well grounded in practices and should operate regardless. These Societies are the backbone of Church activity in several localities. "During the month of September most of the officers of the mission Relief Societies (about fifty-five in number) met at Cambridge in conference, where work and methods for the present season were discussed. Those attending carried back to their respective branches inspiration and enthusiasm which is gratifying. The accompanying picture was taken on that occasion. "The mission has received upwards of twenty-five quilts and many boxes of clothing from the several Societies. We provided complete Christmas for five or six families in northern Maine, and throughout the year have helped several dozen persons. ? "Our objectives have been and NOTES FROM THE FIELD 233 shall continue to be the organization of more neighborhood groups, getting the women more adept at handiwork, an increased amount of welfare materials, and the keeping of more complete and accurate records. OFFICERS OF RELIEF SOCIETIES IN THE NEW ENGLAND MISSION at a conference in Cambridge, Massachusetts in , where work of the 1943-44 season was considered "It has been gratifying to work with the women of the mission during the past year. Several baptisms have resulted from Relief Society work. We have learned much; our happiness has been deep. The future looks bright and our faith is strong."
The General Board notes with particular interest the organization of a Relief Society at Concord, New Hampshire, during 1943 as reported in the first paragraph of the foregoing letter. New Hampshire has been the only state without a Relief Society, according to the geographic distribution of Relief Societies, in recent annual reports. With the organization of a Relief Society at Concord, the 1943 annual report will doubtless show organized Relief Societies in every state of the Union, as well as in the District of Columbia, the territories of Alaska and Hawaii, and in many other countries. A commendable accomplishment of the New England Mission during 1943 was the completion of an historical summary of all Relief Societies in the mission for the eighteen-month period, through . This compiled history was mimeographed and distributed to all Societies in the mission, so that each might review the activities and accomplishments of the others. Mission Relief Society president, Bertha S. Reeder, and mission Relief Society supervisor, Elder Kenneth W. Porter, who edited these historical summaries from the branches, point out that 234 more work was actually done than would appear from this record due to the brevity of the reports, and that it is hoped that this first history will be followed by a regular series of such reports. They also recognize that varying conditions in the different localities naturally influence the accomplishments of the local Relief Societies, some of which are small and operate as neighborhood groups, and others of which are larger and more experienced in Relief Society work. They conclude: "Yet every group has done much to spread happiness and to comfort and care for the needy; each has helped to improve conditions of many homes, has brought a unity and love into places which previously had not known such peace;" and that the accomplishments of each Relief Society demonstrate the effectiveness of the realization that the Relief Society was organized by the Prophet Joseph Smith. They also feel that the effort of compiling and distributing copies of these histories would be justified if each local Society, in reviewing the work of other Societies in the mission, were "to get one new idea, one improved method or inspiration to carry on in the face of difficulties." Spanish-American Mission IVIE H. Jones, president of Relief Societies in the Spanish-American Mission, submitted the following account of accomplishments of two of the several local Spanish speaking Relief Societies in this mission: " When in my name but two or three shall meet, I there will surely be? "The above words of our Lord ? and Master seem especially appropriate for the Spanish-American Relief Society of Kingsville, 'Texas. "At the beginning of 1943, this Relief Society had one L. D. S. Member,