the Christ. Don't you think so?"
Gaetha's hands grew rigid in her lap; the color receded from her face. Her eyes, with a strained, burning look, were fastened on those of her visitor. Mrs. Paulsen stirred uneasily, but she persisted.
"Your right to claim the child is undisputed, Mrs. Langley. But surely you can see?Nona's love for her religion was all-absorbing; I am sure she would wish her daughter to be brought up in the same faith?"
Gaetha Langley leaned forward and it seemed that her words poured from her lips: "I intend that she shall be, Mrs. Paulsen. Oh, if you could only know?if I could only tell you, how I long to believe, as Nona did!"
"Listen, Mrs. Paulsen, I would give anything I have?all I have?if only I could believe that there is a Christ. But all my life?all my father's life, I mean?he taught me that there is none. That no loving, just, all-powerful God would permit the sorrows and griefs of life to descend upon his beloved children as griefs and sorrows do fall. He taught me that it was folly to believe in God, because an all-wise God would be compassionate, merciful?while facts show that there is only trouble, bereavement, loss. There were my father and mother, worshiping each other! Would a loving God have taken her away, leaving him to spend those long, lonely years without her? There were my young husband and I?Ralston was snatched away almost before we could realize that we had been wed?and we so rich in love for each other. He, too, was an ardent believer; I hoped that he might have helped me to see as he did. But he was taken away. Father's influence was renewed; there was no refuting his arguments, for he always had new examples to prove his views, and he seemed to know every discrepancy in 'God's Book' itself, or to make discrepancies seem


to be there?if you prefer to put it that way. I could not help believing that he must speak the truth. I cannot now?his teachings are the strongest influence in my life.
"But, Mrs. Paulsen, I envy those who do believe in God. They find so much joy in their faith?joy and comfort and serenity. Oh, if only I, too, could know that?if only I could believe!
"There is so much in what one is taught when young. And I would never, never pass on to anyone these teachings that destroy faith. They cause only unhappiness; my father was a wretched man, and I have always been unhappy most of my life. I don't know one of father's friends who shared his disbelief, who was not sad and bitter. Nona's baby shall be taught to believe?I wish she might never know that I do not. All that her Church can give her, she shall have; all that I can give her, all that friends can give?it shall be favorable to sincere belief in a Supreme Being of goodness and love. She shall live in the sunshine of faith, and never know, if I can help it, that there is such a thing as 'outer darkness.'"
As Gaetha's voice lowered and ceased, the only sound in the room was the ticking of the clock on the mantel, between the two silver-framed photographs of the men who had had parts in Gaetha's life: her father, whose face was deeply lined with bitterness and sadness, whose heavy gray hair seemed somehow to add to his general appearance of stern, sour, disillusioned old age; and Ralston Langley, who had been killed in a run-away a week following his marriage to Gaetha. Her eyes, always dark with tragedy, now sought his eyes in the picture and passed tenderly over the handsome boyish face that had been so alight with youthful hope and ambition.
Mrs. Paulsen was silent, feeling as if Gaetha had lifted aside a curtain and let her gaze for a few moments upon an anguished soul. Not so much in the words?for Gaetha was too much the repressed Puritan to express clearly or forcefully her emotion; but Mrs. Paulsen had sensed more than she had listened to, and she seemed to think of a helpless child thrust into a dark room and left alone and sobbing for its parents who could not come to it.
She laid her hand on Gaetha's, sympathetically; but at the touch Gaetha stiffened and the moment of revelation was over.
For long years afterward, Mrs. Paulsen seldom thought of Gaetha Langley without hearing in her memory that repressed cry, "Oh, if only I could believe!"
"It seems so simple!" the good lady would sigh to herself. "Why can't she believe if she wants to?" But puzzling over the question, day after day, she found a parallel in her own life, in her hesitancy to disregard certain old superstitions which her parents and grandparents had observed. "I know it's foolish?but these things that you're told when you're young and im-
THE ABUNDANT HARVEST 211
pressionable?how they do stay with you!" It was then, as if a light had suddenly flashed before her, that she understood Gaetha Langley's position. "It's a shame! He destroyed her powers of belief; his positive, know-it-all teachings can't quite be thrown off, and she's afraid of fooling herself. Oh, if one could only help her! But she's mostly so hard to talk to, so aloof. * * *"
And thus Mrs. Paulsen would meditate, and wish, and occasionally pray for Gaetha. But there was no further move toward removing Nona's baby from Gaetha's custody and care. Mrs. Paulsen was able, efficiently, to see to that.
And so Gaetha had, again, her single purpose that saved her life from being utterly useless. Through the years, the little Nona grew out of her babyhood, passed the days of childhood; climbed steadily the stairs of life toward maturity. She was fairly idolized by Aunt Gaetha, but never was little maid more sweet or unspoiled. She was her mother over again; the image in looks and ways of Ralston Langley's little orphaned sister whom Gaetha had cared for after the death of the elder Mrs. Langley, when Nona had been sixteen. There had been only a short absence after Nona's marriage for she was widowed before her baby was born, and it was to Gaetha that she turned for aid and comfort. And then there were a few months when Gaetha had "mothered" both Nona and her wee daughter * * * and then Nona had gone, too, and once more Gaetha bowed, but bitterly, to the will of fate. * * *
So now there was another Nona, her mother over again with an intensified beauty and love of beauty, which added sweetness and passion for good.
It was easy for Nona to be "Christian." From the time that her baby lips could utter the words, prayer was as natural to her as breathing. Aunt Gaetha, teaching her the first little, set, rhymed prayers, used to tremble lest the child sense the mechanical quality of her praying, the insincerity she felt; but "Belief" seemed to be so inherently a part of the child's being, that she never questioned any phase of it, and Gaetha rejoiced in the sunny, trustful faith that grew with the years.
Nona was fourteen when the inevitable revelation of the truth came about. She had innocently suggested Aunt Gaetha as a teacher for her Sunday school class. Surprised and puzzled at the reception of her suggestion, she demanded explanation?and got it, in an embarrassed, stammering, incomplete way that sent her scurrying home to Gaetha herself to seek admission or denial.
The first tears that Gaetha Langley had shed in years, mingled with Nona's as they clung together in those moments of Nona's consuming disappointment. Then they tried to get down to a quiet talk that would explain each one's position, and at last


Gaetha's terror that Nona's faith might be weakened, was entirely calmed. For the girl put her delicate little hands on each side of her aunt's face and held it so that their eyes looked directly into each other's.
"Auntie Gaetha, I think you're wonderful, anyway. Most people would have been hard and bitter?but you've done everything you could to help me know that there is a Father in Heaven who is loving me and caring for me always, and will some day take me again to my lovely mother and my father. I think it must be terrible to feel like everything is just chance in life, and not planned at all; but do you know, Auntie, I think that deep down in your heart there is a spark?a big spark?of your own faith. Wrong teachings have covered it with ashes of disbelief; but sometime, we'll find some word of explanation that will be like a strong wind blowing the ashes away, and the spark will grow into a flame, and as quickly as that"?she snapped her slender fingers?"you'll know. I'm going to help you find that word, Auntie?I'll never stop searching until I find it."
Gaetha sat helpless with amazement. Was this Nona, who had come to her so like a little child a few moments before? This upturned face, framed in bright curls, was the face of a woman, young, but with an expression of responsibility, of determination, of purposefulness, that made it seem, to Gaetha, almost maternal. She could not speak, but drew Nona into her lap and sat for a long time holding her close.
They talked often, after that, on the subject which meant so much to both of them. Nona was so full of youthful fervor, so sure and secure in her own faith, that Gaetha would be held spellbound while the girl was speaking. But then Gaetha's eyes, lifting her eyes to her father's picture, would see his stern features seem to grow sterner yet, and his voice, with all its old magnetism, its old power, would seem to resound in her ears: "Trash?all of it! Trash for superstitious fools! There is no God!" * * * And Gaetha would sigh, and Nona's voice would cease its sweet pleading; and they would wait until another day.
"Sometime, Aunt Gaetha," Nona said once, "We'll find just the right word?you know how it is: we can hear a thing over and over, but until it's said just right, we don't understand. I'll not stop searching until I find just the word that will make you understand!"
There was a ring of prophetic depth in her tone that thrilled Gaetha and set her to marveling at the girl's power over her.
The days passed. The miracle of spring, which Nona saw as a proof of immortality; the richness of a summer unsurpassed for beauty and bountiful growth. Rain came generously, pests and blights were singularly rare. And Autumn came, on blazing wings of gold and scarlet.
THE ABUNDANT HARVEST 213
The passing months had seen no abatement of Nona's enthusiasm for her self-appointed mission. Often Gaetha found herself on the point of professing conviction merely to see the light leap up in Nona's eyes?"But she'd know I was deceiving her; I must not try to fool us both," she decided, and wondered whether her father's teachings or Nona's youthful arguments would ever triumph over her own doubts and fears.
Then one day the tragedy that always seems to stalk near, entered Gaetha's life again. Nona, hurrying homeward with unusual eagerness, ran lightly into the street?directly ahead of an approaching streak of gray and blue polished nickel?there was the screech of brakes, too late?a horrified gasp from spectators?and a moment later Nona was being lifted from the dust, bruised, bleeding and unconscious.
Gaetha Langley admitted the silent procession wordlessly. Her lips were stiff; her heart seemed turned to ashes. Beside the white bed where Nona was laid, she waited the coming of the doctor. Someone was trying to tell her how the accident had occurred; the words beat meaninglessly against her eardrums. * * *
The doctor shook his head. "There is a chance * * * but that is all * * * I fear?"
The word was passed along. Outside, where a group of friends and neighbors had gathered, women and girls sobbed. Gaetha heard the sound with a sort of wonderment * * * she felt so weary, so old; her movements were purely mechanical, she could speak no word still.
Through an interminable night and day they watched by Nona's bedside. At last consciousness returned; weakly she spoke, recognizing those around her, and a ray of hope pierced the atmosphere of despair. Nona seemed suddenly eager.
"I want to talk to Aunt Gaetha." The doctor hesitated, then assented, with a warning, "Not too much effort, though, Mrs. Langley," to Gaetha as he motioned the nurse to leave the room with him.
"Auntie Gaetha," Nona began, with a pathetic excitement, "I know just how everything happened. I was hurrying so, I just couldn't stop?oh, auntie, I found something for you?I know it's just what we've been looking for! It's a poem?I copied it and put it in my 'lit' book?find it, please, Aunt Gaetha?if only it didn't get lost?"
She was half striving to rise from her pillow, but fearfully Gaetha restrained her and went to find the book, which someone had picked up and brought to her after the accident. Nona made a second effort to rise when Gaetha returned, and as Gaetha hurried to her with a warning, Nona understood and smiled tenderly.


"You aren't going to lose me, Aunt Gaetha," she murmured. "The Father?knows just how you need me!"
"The Father * * * *" Across the span of years, the voice of Gaetha's father echoed harshly: "A Father?who takes away those most needed here. Fools!" She felt a sense of dread creeping over her. * * * But Nona was speaking again.
"Find it, Auntie?I can't wait for you to read it!" Gaetha turned the pages of the text-book obediently. She wondered dully what Nona could have found?but presently she was holding the piece of folded paper on which Nona had copied a few short verses. Nona lay watching her; her eyes were bright and shining.
"There is no unbelief!" The words seemed to leap at Gaetha from the page; they might almost have been blazoned in letters of flame. She grasped the bedpost to steady herself, but read on:
"There is no unbelief; Whoever plants a seed beneath the sod, And waits to see it push away the clod, He trusts in God."
Tears came to Gaetha's eyes. This?this!?was what Nona was bringing to her, eagerly, exultantly sure that it held that enlightening word for which she had sought, when she had been?struck down. In that moment of exaltation, of supreme joy and faith?in that moment?the accident?had happened.
A blurred vision of her father's face appeared before her; his sarcastic voice?"Fools!" But Nona was waiting, breathlessly, her eyes like twin stars. Her eyes said, plainly, "Hurry and read! You can't fail to see now!"
With her lips compressed, Gaetha read the rest of the poem. Never had she felt less inclined to open her mind to receive light?but at the last verse she suddenly halted, re-read it and then read it again, with a swift intaking of breath that drew Nona's attention and heightened her excitement.
"* * * day by day, and night, unconsciously, The heart lives by that faith the lips deny? God knoweth why!"
The paper fell from Gaetha's hand. Nona's clutched it tightly.
"Isn't it, Aunt Gaetha? Isn't it just right?" she demanded. And then without waiting for an answer, she went on eagerly: "It's so lovely?so beautiful?and it fits you so exactly. You wanted to believe?that was your heart saying you do really believe. And all those other things you'd been told?they were only 'lips denying.' This explains everything?but let's not talk
THE ABUNDANT HARVEST 215
any more now, I can wait?I'm so sure, anyway, you wouldn't need to tell me at all, only that I want to hear you say it.?But I want to sleep now?I can sleep now; Aunt Gaetha, you've no idea how tired I am!"
With a sigh she closed her eyes; but her smile lingered as she fell asleep.
Gaetha experienced a final moment of overwhelming fear, which was calmed as she noticed Nona's easy, regular breathing. The doctor re-entered the room, looked closely at his patient, and his gravity relaxed somewhat. He gave a few brief instructions, which Gaetha hardly heard, and withdrew.
Gaetha looked again at the slip of paper which she had again picked up. And suddenly there was a rush of blinding tears. "She was hurrying to me?with this?oh, my darling!
"The heart lives by that faith the lips deny?God in Heaven, if you are there, let me know it somehow! Don't let this child's sweet efforts be in vain. If my heart 'lives by faith??'"
Gaetha stopped, in wonderment. She was praying?from the depths of her heart; not mechanically, not even consciously, but confidently, as one who asks a boon from a Giver who will, without doubt, generously bestow. She felt a warm glow enveloping her; was it the "flame" being fanned, as Nona had said?
Stifling a sob lest it awaken the beautiful sleeper before her, she fell to her knees beside the bed. "Oh, my Father?I have wanted Thee so?I have wanted Thee so!" she whispered, as a child might have done. "Never let me lose Thee again?" her hand crept out and closed over Nona's?did she stir? No?except that there was surely a faint answering pressure of the slim fingers!
Gaetha bent forward until her head rested beside Nona's on the pillow. She felt no discomfort in her position; it seemed that physical sense was lost in that wonderful spiritual peace which encompassed her. Still kneeling, and smiling still, she fell asleep.

The western sky was aflame with amethyst and rose, flecked with clouds that seemed like billows of silver and violet shot with darts of gold. Long shadows crept over the fields and lawns where fallen leaves were strewn, turning brown and withering in the path of oncoming winter.
Gaetha Langley watched it from her doorway, drinking in the beauty of it with a glorious sense of comprehension and reverence. She did not realize that a man had entered the gate and come up the walk, until his voice roused her from her reverie:
"Evening, Mrs. Langley. How's the Nona girl getting along?"
"Splendidly, Mr. Barlow, thank you," Gaetha answered. "The doctor says she'll be around again very soon now."


"Glad to hear it?glad to hear it. My, it was a close call, Mrs. Langley. Miracle she's come through, isn't it?"
"Yes, it is indeed. We are very thankful."
"Well, we'll all join with you in thankfulness, Mrs. Langley?Well, I'll be getting on. Just passing?thought I'd inquire. Fine crops this year, aren't they?"
"Yes, indeed. The harvest is abundant," the woman replied as if in a trance.
Mr. Barlow turned back towards the street, reflecting that Mrs. Langley talked a bit queer and bookish-like, but then she always had been sort of odd. At the gate he glanced back. He thought that the woman on the porch was watching him, and walked a bit straighter and swifter because of the thought. * * *
But Gaetha, though her face was turned that way, saw him not at all. For she was thinking how, from her sowing of seeds of "comforting faith" in the little Nona, had sprung this amazing, glorious harvest for herself. And though she was joyously aware of the beauty of the landscape and of the sky, she had no words to express her pleasure, because all her words were busy with her thoughts, and together they had traveled far away?far, far, even beyond the sunset.