Soil for Potted Plants By Dr. Thomas L. Martin
A pleasant occupation for the winter time and one that pays big dividends in artistic appreciation and home comfort is that of growing potted plants in the home. Some find no trouble in growing a good, healthy plant, while others find it quite a task. The flower pot is small when one considers the amount of top growth. The root system is rather elaborate and draws heavily upon the sustenance within the soil; it is important, therefore, that the soil be the right kind and well supplied with the fertility required.
There are certain ways in which soils for potted plants may be prepared. A few suggestions are as follows: Take one part of an ordinary garden-loam soil, one part of turfy material from the lower part of a pasture sod, and one part of well rotted manure and sand, half and half, and mix well together. This should constitute a good, rich, friable soil for the growth of house plants. The soil must be loose and friable, should drain easily and not crust when water is applied. The above mixture answers these requirements.
THE ABUNDANT HARVEST 217
In the midst of the firs and spruces in our canyons, one may find forest mold. If the surface two inches is scraped away and the balance for twelve inches collected, one may secure a fine quality of soil for potting purposes. The first two inches contain many spiny leaves, which, during the first stages of decomposition, give off a number of poisons detrimental to plants; this is the reason for the removal of the surface.
Soils may be prepared quite readily during spare periods. In the spring, after grass has begun to grow well, remove the sod of an old blue-grass pasture, where soil is rich and deep. Cut the sod into strips a foot wide and three inches thick and place in thin layers; then place on top two or three inches of well rotted manure. Repeat until the soil is three to five feet high. Keep it wet for two or three years, then cut a slice through and mix with a little sand. Do this whenever new soil is needed. This will furnish, on hand at any time, a most excellent flower-pot soil.
In the preparation of flower pot soil it is well to use manure. Cow-yard manure is really the best. Secure it when it is old and friable. Fresh manure should never be used, its physical effect for flower pot soils being detrimental. Hen manure is too strong, and horse manure heats too much.
A little ground bone mixed with the soil is good. Also, when the plants are growing and show signs of paleness, they may be revived by the addition of a little ammonium sulphate at the rate of about one-half ounce to a gallon of water, added at the time of watering the plant. Paleness may be due to root binding. If this is the case, the plant must be removed to a larger pot. However, removal may be postponed awhile by the addition of a little ammonium sulphate.
These are suggestions for keeping the plants in our homes in a healthy state. Many people are interested in this daily chore and these hints should prove helpful to them.
God's Garden By Merling D. Clyde
Little yellow violets On a grassy hill, Blue and white for-get-me-nots Growing with a will;
Dainty little blossoms Lowly on the sod, Spreading gracious beauty, Tended just by God.