We are GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 223 almost appalled at the importance of early religious character building, the foundation of which is belief in God; and to neglect it is to assume a fearful responsibility. Project Four. The Work for the Dead.. In this project men and women come close to the line of redemption chains and tying knots of love. If all the dead one works for should reject the work done for them, still would the worker be richly paid; because trying to save is as heroic as saving. A dollar sent to the temple is like one spent to keep a boy on a mission; it goes in the service of salvation. If our eyes were adjusted to spiritual waves, what signals for help might we see over there; and if our ears were spiritually attuned, what songs of gladsome gratitude might we hear for what we do for them who cannot help themselves. Questions and Problems 1. Distinguish between a purpose and a project. 2. Name the projects set forth in this lesson. 3. What is our duty concerning the book that was the product of the first great project of the dispensation? 4. Name the workers in the project (a) mortal; (b) immortal. 5. To what point was the organization of the Church completed on the sixth of April, 1830? 6. Name the six charter members of the Church. 7. Give evidence that the organization of the priesthood of the Church was years in being completed. (See Essentials in Church History, by Joseph Fielding Smith, p. 84.) 8. Make as complete a list as you can of the names of beings who have taken part in the projects of this dispensation and state the special mission of as many as you can. (See D. & C. 13, heading; 128:20-21. 110:3, 11-13.) 9. What evidence have we that many angels other than those of record have taken part in the project of this dispensation? (D. & C. 128:21.) 10. Who was Raphael? (See Commentary Doctrine and Covenants, pp. 998, 999.) We 11. What are the beliefs and the conduct that make up Latter-day Saint Christian Character? (Articles of Faith, 1 and 13.) 12. What fearful responsibility is assumed by neglecting to teach and train children? (See D.& C. 68:25, 28.) 13. What great Project of the dispensation points to the necessity of a skilled genealogist in every family? - 14. Discuss: Our salvation depends on our interest in the salvation of the dead. (See D. & C. 128:15.) 15. Discuss "What is Life Without a Project?" 
 LESSON II Work and Business (Second Week in June) TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR JUNE?THE HOME Music in the Home "To hear the highest music is to be made immediately conscious of our nobler self. The interest that music arouses is the interest that attaches itself to every human heart; and the love of which it speaks is the love which proclaims the kinship of humanity."?Colvin McAlpin. 1, The cultural value of good music. As a people we should: Concern ourselves with music of real worth. Provide the best musical instruments we can afford. Acquire gradually a good musical library. Cultivate the power to be appreciative and intelligent listeners. E. Create an abundant love for the best music, and a will to participate in it. Ae op Interest in singing and playing, and attendance at concerts, grow naturally from a progressive experience of music gained in childhood and continued into adult years. A. We should stimulate playing and singing in our homes and communities. B. Cultivate a love of hymns and good songs. C. Get the message the words convey. D. Emphasize the beauty of "part" singing. If we improve the quality of our music both vocal and instrumental, it will arouse in us a love for and an interest in music and lay the foundations of a cultivated musical taste. GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 225 LESSON III Literature (Third Week in June) WILLIAM HENRY DRUMMOND When we considered Eugene Field's "Little Boy Blue," we told you that it is a well-nigh perfect poem of its class. As we study the writings of William Henry Drummond, the Canadian, compared to the pen-pictures of Robert Burns in Scotland, for they are pictures of the peasant life of Canada. They may also undying masterpieces, These paintings in verse by William Henry Drummond, are like Millet's paintings?masterpieces, His Canada. He was born in the village of Mohill County, Lartim, Ireland, on the 13th of April, 1854. When he was a lad his father lived in the little village of Tawley on the Bay Donegal. It was in this village that the poet's education began. While yet a lad the family moved to Canada, where the father survived only a few months, leaving but Spare means for the support of his wife and children. As a result, William Henry had to leave school at a very tender age, to help provide for the family. He had learned telegraphy and was employed at Borde a Plouffe, a small village on the prairies near Montreal. It was here that he first came in which occurred in 1907. He was the type of man who wins 
 hearts, so that those who knew him wept at his demise with those who loved him best. He had married in 1894, Miss Mae Harvey of Savannah la Mar, Jamaica. It is to his wife that we are indebted for the story of his first appearance as a poet. He had been invited by the Shakespeare Club of Montreal to read a poem. He was very timid, but he won his audience as men of his type are almost sure to do. This was the beginning of a long series of triumphs. It is not always true that dialect adds to the quality of poetry as in the case of the French-Canadian dialect, but certain it is that this dialect has a charm about it that eludes description. For instance, take one of the most papu lag of Mr. Drummond's poems, "Tittle Bateese." LITTLE BATEESE You bad leetle boy, not moche you care How busy you're kipin' your poor gran'pere Tryin' to stop you ev'ry day Chasin' de-hen aroun' de hay? W'y don't you geev' dem a chance to lay? Leetle Bateese! Off on de fiel' you foller de plough, Den w'en you're tire you scare de cow, Sickin' de dog till dey jomp de wall, So de milk ain't good for not'ing at all? An' you're only five an' a half dis fall, Leetle Bateese! Too sleepy for sayin' de prayer tonight? Never min', I s'pose it'll be all right, Say dem tomorrow?ah! Dere he go! Fas' asleep in a minute or so? And he'll stay lak dat till de rooster crow, Leetle Bateese! Den wake us up right away toute suite Lookin' for somet'ing more to eat, Makin' me t'ink of dem long leg crane, Soon as dey swaller, dey start again, I wonder your stomach don't get no pain, Leetle Bateese! But see heem now lyin' dere in bed, Look at de arm onderneat' hees head; If he grow lak dat till he's twenty year I bet he'll be stronger dan Louis Cyr An' beat all de voyageurs leevin' here, Leetle Bateese! GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 227 Jus' feel de muscle along hees back, Won't geev' heem moche bodder for carry pack On de long portage, any size canoe, Dere's not many t'ing dat boy won't do, For he's got double-joint on hees body too, Leetle Bateese! But leetle Bateese! Please don't forget We rader you're stayin' de small boy yet, So chase de chicken an' mak' dem scare, An' do w'at you lak wit' your old gran'pere, For w'en you're beeg feller he won't be dere? Leetle Bateese! Another poem of similar charm to "Little Bateese" is "De Nice Leetle Canadienne.". De Nice LEETLE CANADIENNE You can pass on de worl' wever you lak, Tak' de steamboat for go Angleterre, Tak' car on de State, an' den you come back, An' go all de place, I don't care? Ma frien', dat's a fack, I know you will say, W'en you come on dis contree again, Dere's no girl can touch, w'at we see ev'ry day, De nice leetle Canadienne. Don't matter how poor dat girl she may be, Her dress is so neat an' so clean, Mos' ev'rywan t'ink it was mak' on Paree, An' she wear it, wall! Jus' lak de Queen. Den come for fin' out she is mak' it herself, For she ain't got moche monee for spen', But all de sam' tam, she was never get lef', Dat nice leetle Canadienne. W'en 'un vrai Canayen' is mak' it mariee, You t'ink he go leev on beeg flat An' bodder hese'f all de tam, night an' day, Wit' housemaid, an' cook, an all dat? Not mcche, ma dear frien', he tak' de maison, Cos' only nine dollar or ten, W'ere he leev lak blood rooster, an' save de l'argent, Wit' hees nice leetle Canadienne. 
 I marry ma famme w'en I'm jus' twenty year, An' now we got fine familee Dat skip roun' de place lak leetle small deer, No smarter crowd you never see? An' I t'ink as I watch dem all chasin' about, Four boy an' six girl, she mak' ten, Dat's help mebbe kip it, de stock from run out, Of de nice leetle Canadienne. O she's quick, an' she's smart, an' got plaintee heart, If you know correc' way go about, An' if you don't know, she soon tole you so, Den tak' de firs' chance an' get out; But if she love you, I spik it for true, She will mak' it more beautiful den, An' sun on de sky can't shine lak de eye Of dat nice leetle Canadienne. We are including in the lesson the following paragraphs from Logan and French, because we think them especially il-. Luminating: "William Henry Drummond, like the dramatis personae of his poems, the Voyageur and Habitant, was a 'child of nature.' No other kind of man, save this large-bodied, warm-hearted, openminded lover of human kin and of the creatures that live in the wild, who saw and felt the common things of life, as the habitant saw and felt them, could have been a truthful interpreter of the habitant. The merely scholarly poet, the poet of a hothouse refinement, the poet who went to work at the craftmanship of poetry as if he were carving arabesques in verse, could not have the imaginative insight into the mind and heart of the French-Canadian peasant and the sympathy with him that would make it possible for such a poet, with kindly, playful humor, to express the elemental feelings and thoughts?the real humanity? of the habitant. "Drummond was above all things a human poet. His sympathies were inclusive. By intuition he could feel just as the habitant felt about good and evil in the universe. Drummond's heart was warm and large and religious, which meant that he could call nothing that was made in the image of God common or outcast. Though he was well read in the modern poets and was a student of literature, he was not a bookish man. He distinguished between the literature which possessed only aesthetic and artistic beauties and that which was the embodiment of the finer goods of the spirit, the inalienable satisfactions of existence. He loved only the literature that was human and beautiful? simple, pure, and true. GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 229 As, then a 'child of nature', with a large sympathetic heart and a Keltic vision of the 'divinity' which is in all men and also in the wild creatures that are near to Nature, and with a gift of ready expression in rhythmical verse, Drummond was uniquely fitted to be the interpreter of his simple, kindly, reticent, but genuinely human and sincere, fellow-being, the Canadian habitant. Thus singularly fitted to be, as he has been called, 'the Poet of the Habitant. Drummond, in his verse, actually performed a social and a literary service for his country. On the social side, to the English-speaking Canadian, who up to the last decade of the 19th century, considered the habitant as little better than a chattel, Drummond revealed the human, lovable, and admirable virtues of the humble French-speaking compatriot, and also engendered in the English-speaking Canadian a sincere respect and affection for his French-speaking fellow countryman. On the literary side, Drummond created a gallery of genre pictures and spiritual portraits which constitute a unique contribution, not only to Canadian poetic literature, but also to English literature." Other poems of William Henry Drummond are "The Wreck of the 'Julie Plante', A Legend of Lac St. Pierre," 'Johnnie Courteau" and "Madaliene Vercheres." They may be found in a book called Canadian Poets, edited by John W. Garvin. If you chance to have it in your local libraries you can make use of it. Questions and Problems 1, What was Drummond's nationality and what his profession? 2. Do you recall any other persons of his profession that are also writers? 3. Where did he find the people of whom he writes so charmingly? 4. Words from what two languages are mingled to produce the very pleasing effect that we have in Drummond's poetry? 5. These people are people of simple lives and rather narrow opportunities! Does Drummond make us care more or less for them through his presentation of their lives? 6. What mental picture, based on Drummond's description, did you get of the "Leetle Canadienne"? 7. What is your mental picture of Bateese's gran'pere? How does he resemble all good grandfathers that you have ever known? 
 LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in June) THE CHILD-STUDY COURSE The Social Traits of Childhood and Youth (Based on Chapter 6, ""The Child: His Nature and His Needs"') In the last lesson we considered the child's moral equipment. There we noted the established principles of a new movement in education?character development. The subject matter of the present lesson?''The Social Traits of Childhood and Youth'?should be considered in the light of the preceding lesson, because the two topics are merely different aspects of the same thing. The author this time, Dr. Frederick E. Bolton, is professor of education at the University of Washington. He is another recognized authority on psychology and child study. A.?GREGARIOUSNESS AND IMITATION (Pages 107-114) Perhaps the most striking thing about human beings is their close dependence upon one another. It is more than the "herd instinct," 1. E., the desire to congregate in groups: it grows out of the fact that we are so completely dependent upon one another, not only as children, but as adults. This fact makes for suggestibility and imitativeness in children. Several facts are specifically responsible for the child's imitativeness, among which might be noted: (a) the long period of immaturity, with (b) its consequent suggestibility, and (c) the imperative need to grow up quickly. And become an adult. Language is the best illustration of how these factors concretely operate. The child acquires his fundamental language behavior by a process similar to contagion. That is, he "catches" the language behavior of those who make up his immediate social world?his parents, brothers and sisters, playmates, etc. It is this fact which determines whether or not he shall speak English or Chinese; use proper words or inappropriate ones; use "baby talk" and so on. So that by the time the average child enters the first grade, his language habits are set and his future language -behavior is practically determined. How important then, that the young child shall be exposed only to good models of English? It is just as easy for a child to imitate correct models of speech as it is to copy poor ones. Questions 1. Could a child of German parentage, for example, learn to GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 231 speak English just as easily as he could learn to speak German, providing he heard nothing but English? Explain. 2. How far is it true that "baby talk" develops only by imitation? 3. If a child's language habits develop largely as the result of imitation, how far is it also true that he gets his moral and religious ideas in the same way? 4. Study the language habits of a number of young children accessible to you, noting (a) their choice of words, (b) the size of their vocabularies (c) their use of slang, "baby talk," etc. Note particularly the extent to which these traits have been developed by imitation. B.?Gangs (Pages 114-121) The wish for recognition is without doubt one of the strongest drives in human nature. Since man's struggle for existence has ceased to be a hand to hand encounter with enemies and destructive forces, and survival has become largely a social matter, recognition has become an indispensable element in human happiness. Since society and the groups which make it up, can give or withhold recognition, it is very clear why we all readily conform to group sentiment and group control. The meaning of this fact for education should be clear. Parents, teachers, and social leaders should be concerned to provide children with many and various opportunities for securing membership in groups with harmless and helpful social purposes, If the child is left to his own devices, it very often happens that he associates with an anti-social group. Questions 1. How do the children known to you satisfy their wish for recognition? Study the gangs, cliques, "crushes," etc., known to your community. 2. Consider Scouting, the M. I. A., and the Primary Association from this point of view. 3. How can society regulate, if it should, the group affiliations of children without supervising such groups and therefore destroying one of the desirable aspects from the standpoint of the child? C.?Sex Education (Pages 121-124) In view of the fact that one entire lesson next year is to be devoted to the Adolescent Period of Sex Education, we recommend SL RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE that class leaders omit the discussion of sex education which appears in the text at this point. E D.?ADOLESCENCE AND CITIZENSHIP (Pages 124-131) It is common knowledge that adolescence is a period of profound character change. At this time, children seem to reach the threshold of adulthood suddenly. The religious zeal which commonly appears at this time is one of the evidences of the extreme hopefulness of youth. Religious leaders will do well to capitalize the energies of the adolescent boy or girl in the interest of his or her character development. In an age of science and utilitarianism this is not easy to do. It is an art. An over-dose of religion at this time may deter the individual from what would otherwise be a wholesome religious life. The altruism of youth is another outstanding trait of adolescence. Youth is essentially idealistic and optimistic. Why not, then, give youth more opportunities than they customarily enjoy to participate in community projects and social-service enterprises? Elaborating the author's splendid suggestions at this point, why could we not engage the energies of our "Mormon" youth in an attack upon local problems of poverty, delinquency, political incompetence, and mental disorder? Some competent observers believe that modern youth is wasting its energies because parents too jealously guard their control in society. Since no generation has solved all of the human ills "the flesh is heir to," and since the present generation in the saddle has all, and probably more, than it can handle, might it not be an advantage all around if we gave youth an opportunity to create and extend our cultural traditions? Questions 1. To what extent do boys and girls in your community become profoundly religious upon reaching adolescence? Do these young men and women continue in this zeal? 2. To what extent do the adolescent boys and girls in your community participate in community activities and civic projects? What opportunities might be offered to them so to participate? 3. What happens (a) religiously, (b) morally, (c) vocationally, to the boys and girls who grow up in your community? 4. Make a list of boys and girls who were adolescent in your community ten' or fifteen years ago. What has happened to members of this group? Where are they located? What are they doing? Are they active Latter-day Saints? Are they useful citizens? Perennial Flowers Plant Now You will enjoy our splendid assortment of more than 100 choice varieties of hardy perennial plants for Spring planting. Just note the following offer. P.-W's selection of one each 12 best everblooming perennials. All for $2.50, postpaid. Everything else in Seeds, Plants, Shrubs and Trees. GET FREE CATALOG PORTER WALTON CO.