[Vol24 | March 1937 | Sequence: 27 | Category: Guide | Title: Lesson Department]

Lesson Department (For First Week in May) Theology and Testimony Lesson 8
The Christ AND THE GATHERING OF ISRAEL Helpful References In the Bible: Deuteronomy 30:1-5; Isaiah 5:25-26; 11:11-12; 14:1-2; 35:4, 10; 43:5-7; 54:7; Jeremiah 3:12-15, 18; 16:14-16; 23:2-4, 7-8; 31:7-12; Micah 4:1-2; Matthew 15:24; 24:31; John 10:16; Revelation 18:4. See also "Ready References." In the Book of Mormon: I Nephi 10:14; 19:15-17; 2
Nephi 6:11; 9:2; 10:7; 30:7-8; Jacob 6:2; 3
Nephi 5:26; 20:29-33; 21:1; 26- 28. In the Doctrine and Covenants: Sec. 29:7-8; 42:36; 45:17, 25, 43, 69; 57:1-2; 58:56; 63:36; 101:13, 20- 22, 64-69; 105:24; 110:11; 125: 2; 133:7, 26-35. Smith: The Way to Perfection, Chapter 20. Talmage: Articles of Faith, Chapters 18, 19. 1. Israel the Spiritual Leavening Agent in the World. It is of special significance that the Christ was born of an Israelite mother and brought up among the Israelites. It is perhaps of greater significance that His personal ministry was confined to Israelites. Why was this? It can scarcely be accidental. Nor to the Latter-day Saints is it such. In the economy of God the Israelite nation was seemingly chosen to be the spiritual leavening agent in the world. The Old Testament bears record of this, as also does the New Testament. These books cannot be properly understood without knowing that the salvation of the human race is in great measure linked up with the fortunes of the house of Israel. Jehovah, the pre-existent Christ, once said to Abraham, "I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee above measure, and make thy name great among all nations, and thou shalt be a blessing unto thy seed after thee, that in their hands they shall bear this ministry and Priesthood unto all nations; and I will bless them through thy name; for as many as receive this Gospel shall be called after thy name, and shall be accounted thy seed, and shall rise up and bless thee, as their father." (Abraham 2:9-10.) Thus it is seen how the Redeemer planned to send forth His word by a people especially delegated and chosen. The declaration of the Christ to the woman of Samaria that "salvation is of the Jews" (John 4:22) is also in accord with the promise made to Abraham. On another occasion our Lord said, "T am not sent but unto the lost sheep of the house of Israel." (Matthew 15:24.) When He appeared to the Nephites, the Christ confirmed and extended our understanding of the peculiar relationship existing between Himself and the House of Israel. (3
Nephi 15:11- 16, 20.) 2. Israel To Be Gathered Preparatory To Reign of Peace. Israel through the centuries has LESSON DEPARTMENT. Been alternately blessed and punished according to her regard or disregard of the covenant made with God. She has been scattered, but even in this the wisdom of a wise Creator can be seen. The Savior taught, as did the prophets before Him, that Israel should eventually be gathered to help bring to pass God's purposes preparatory to a reign of peace among men. While speaking of the latter days, Christ declared, "And now I show unto you a parable. Behold, wheresoever the carcass is, there will the eagles be gathered together; so likewise shall mine elect be gathered from the four quarters of the earth." (Pearl of Great Price, An Extract from 'a translation of the Bible, verse 27.) 3. Not All of Israel To Be Gathered To Palestine. Unfortunately, the Gospels do not contain in fulness the Savior's instructions concerning the gathering. They. Are limited in their scope; we have to rely on the Book of Mormon and the Doctrine and Covenants, to give us a clearer insight to His interpretation of this doctrine. It is plain that the Christ in His teachings about the Gathering refers to distinct groups of Israelites. We shall see this as we proceed. "And I will remember the covenant which I have made with my people; and I have covenanted with them that I would gather them together in mine own due time, that I would give unto them again the land of their fathers for their inheritance, which. Is the land of Jerusalem, which is the promised land unto them forever, saith the Father." (3
Nephi 20:29.) This scripture cannot mean that all of the House of Israel will be gathered to Palestine. Doubtless it refers to the greater portion of them, the house of 181
Joseph mostly being excepted. Christ in speaking to the Nephites, said, "And it shall come to pass that I will establish my people, O house of Israel. And behold, this people will I establish in this land, unto the fulfilling of the covenant which I made with your father Jacob; and it shall be a New Jerusalem." (3
Nephi 20:21-22.) The Jaredite prophet, Ether, was also permitted to see in vision the establishment of the remnant of the house of Joseph on this continent. "Behold, Ether saw the days of Christ, and he spake concerning a New Jerusalem upon this land. And he spake also concerning the house of Israel, and the Jerusalem from whence Lehi should come?after it should be destroyed it should be built up again, a holy city unto the Lord; wherefore, it could not be a new Jerusalem for it had been in a time of old; but it should be built up again, and become a holy city of the Lord; and it should be built unto the house of Israel. And that a New Jerusalem should be built up upon this land, unto the remnant of the seed of Joseph, for which things there has been a type.... Wherefore, the remnant of the house of Joseph shall be built upon this land; and it shall be a land of their inheritance; and they shall build up a holy city unto the Lord, like unto the Jerusalem of old; and they shall no more be confounded, until the end come when the earth shall pass away." (Ether 13:4-6, 8.) It is thus plain that the house of Joseph, comprising the tribes of Ephraim and Manasseh, will be gathered and remain on this continent. They will inherit it together with the righteous Gentiles. (3
Nephi 21:22-28.) 4. The Savior Speaks of the Lost Tribes of Israel. The Savior, while yet among the 182
Nephites, referred to a distinct body of Israelites other than the Jews and His immediate audience. He declared, "'And verily, verily, I say unto you that I have other sheep, which are not of this land, neither of the land of Jerusalem, neither in any parts of that land round about whither I have been to minister. For they of whom I speak are they who have not as yet heard my voice; neither have I at any time manifested myself unto them. But I have received a commandment of the Father that I shall go unto them, and that they shall hear my voice, and shall be numbered among my sheep, that there may be one fold and one shepherd; therefore I go to show myself unto them." (3
Nephi 16: i-3.) The "sheep" referred to by the Christ without doubt were the so-called "lost" tribes of Israel, the Ten Tribes, for our Lord had already appeared to the Jews and to the remnant of Joseph as represented by the Nephites. But the Israelites mentioned by Him can scarcely have been the ancestors of the body of Israel in the Church today, as many people contend. We should certainly have had some traditions about the appearance of the Christ to them, but we have not. Our patriarchs pronounce us as mainly of Ephraim. The Doctrine and Covenants speaks plainly of the "ten tribes" and makes a special distinction between them and the other portion of Israel. The Prophet Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery in a joint revelation say, "And Moses appeared before us, and committed unto us the keys of the gathering of Israel froth the four parts of the earth, and the leading of the ten tribes from the land of the north." (Doctrine and Covenants 110:11.) If the present generation in the Church consists of the
Ten Tribes, then we see no point in the distinction the revelation makes between "the gathering of Israel from the four parts of the earth," and "the leading of the ten tribes from the land of the North." (See also Doctrine and Covenants 133: 26-35.) Suffice it to say, that the gathering of the Ten Tribes is an important part of the work of the Christ in this dispensation; but the gathering is to occur in the future. Speculation as to the exact place where the Ten Tribes are at present is fruitless and is of no special importance to us. We can be sure the Lord will do His work at the appointed time and place. 5. The Gathering of Israel Attracts the Attention of the World. The gathering of the house of Israel is a significant factor in calling the attention of the peoples of the world to the plan of salvation. Many souls have already been led, and many will yet be led, into the fold of Christ by virtue of their curiosity in the movements, and in the teachings of the house of Israel. "Behold, I will send for many fishers, saith the Lord, and they shall fish them; and after will I send for many hunters, and they shall hunt them from every mountain, and from every hill, and out of the holes of the rocks." (Jeremiah 16:16.) Questions 1. Why should there be a "chosen" people? In what sense is God impartial so far as all His children are concerned? 2. Why is it necessary for Israel to be gathered? 3. Why is the Church at present not emphasizing the gathering to a particular place? 4. To what lands will the tribes of Israel be gathered?
LESSON DEPARTMENT Problems (Treat only those that time and circumstances permit.) 1.
Show in as many ways as you can how the nations of the earth have been blessed by the scattering and gathering of Israel. 2.
Point out how it is impossible to understand the Bible properly 183 without adequate knowledge of the part Israel is to play in the salvation of mankind. 3.
From a consideration of recent events show how the Jews may be gathered to Palestine. 4.
Explain as well as you can why the Christ ministered only to the house of Israel. Teacher's Topic (For May). THE Goop SAMARITAN Luke 10:25-37 ND, behold, a certain lawyer stood up, and tempted him, saying, Master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? "He said unto him, What is written in the law? How readest thou? "And he answering said, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy strength, and with all thy mind; and thy neighbor as thyself. "And he said unto him, Thou hast answered right; this do, and thou shalt live. "But he, willing to justify himself, said unto Jesus, And who is my neighbor? "And Jesus answering said, A certain man went down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and fell among thieves, which stripped him of his raiment, and wounded him, and departed, leaving him half dead. "And by chance there came down a certain priest that way; and when he saw him, he passed by on the other side. "And likewise a Levite, when he was at the place, came and looked on him, and passed by on the other side. "But a certain Samaritan, as he journeyed, came where he was; and when he saw him, he had compassion on him. "And went to him, and bound up his wounds, pouring in oil and wine, and set him on his own beast, and brought him to an inn, and took care of him. "And on the morrow, when he departed, he took out two pence, and gave them to the host, and said unto him, Take care of him; and whatsoever thou spendest more, when I come again, I will repay thee. "Which now of these three, thinkest thou, was neighbor unto him that fell among the thieves? "And he said, He that showed mercy on him.
Then said Jesus unto him, Go, and do thou likewise." In the question, 'Who is my neighbor?"
Christ shows the person is our neighbor who is in need.
This parable exposes those who make great pretentions but whose lives are not consistent with them.. The Samaritans were hated and despised by the Jews.
They would have no dealings with them.
Christ spoke this parable to the Pharisees 184 who in their proud self-righteousness held aloof from all others.
According to their teachings none but Jews would be considered neighbors. The good Samaritan permitted no consideration of family, friendship, personal inconvenience or nationality to influence him in his work of charity. It was enough for him that the unhappy man lying there on the road needed his help, Before the Samaritan resumed his journey he finished his work of charity; he did all that was necessary to be done. To this beautiful example which he had related) Jesus added this question, (Luke 10:36): 'Which now of these three, thinkest thou, was neighbor unto him that fell among the thieves?"
However the lawyer might feel about what a Samaritan would do, he must admit that the good Samaritan had proved himself a neighbor to the poor unfortunate man. Christ added, "Go and do thou likewise." That is, to give service to any one who needs your help, for he is your neighbor. No doubt you could relate instances where the spirit of the good neighbor has been shown and where true neighborliness has not consisted alone in giving material relief. Discussion According to this parable could there be an individual unworthy of assistance if he were in need? How can one be "a good neighbor" in our present day?