[Vol24 | March 1937 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: Little Moments of Hoggan]

Little Moments of Eternity WHAT SHALL WE DO WITH THEM? RECORDS Take Time to
Salvage the Worth Whiles 
By Lella Marler Hoggan "Having had a great knowledge of the goodness and the mysteries of God therefore I make a record of the proceedings in my days." I Nephi 1:1. Since the beginning of time truth has been recorded for the good of humanity. The first truths, written in the rocks by the hand of Nature, tell the story of the creation of the world, a story that men are today slowly and studiously deciphering. Ancient Scripture, man's written testimony of God's dealings with His children, has for long years been a guide to the Christian heart. In loving remembrance of the Master's great work, his Apostles wrote the story of his life and his message, that it might be passed on to other generations for their eternal betterment. When in ancient times, the Prophet Lehi and his family began their journey into a new world, it was necessary that they should carry with them the recorded Word of God, even though it had to be obtained at the cost of a man's life. "It is better that one man should perish," directed the spirit, "than that a nation should dwindle and perish in unbelief." (1
Nephi 4:13) The Nephites of this early day, were a record making people. They. Had a religion and a literature. They LITTLE MOMENTS OF ETERNITY cherished the traditions and the religious belief of their forefathers, the Israelites. The Lamanites were influenced by no such civilizing force, and they became a degenerate nation.
Without records men do not reach a high degree of civilization. The uplifting influence of the recorded word is essential to growth and development. A vital part of the Church of Jesus Christ in these latter days, rests on the sacred record of Mormon, the ancient prophet and historian. Out of the world's confusion of 1830, came the restored Gospel with all of its promises for women.
Twelve years later, the Woman's Relief Society was organized in Nauvoo, by the Prophet Joseph Smith. His words of instruction and inspiration were recorded and carefully preserved by the organization.
During the subsequent journeys of the Church, from state to state, this record was held in safe keeping.
After the tragic death of the Prophet, it was valued even more highly than before.
When the Saints began their westward trek, it was stowed carefully away with their precious treasures, and was carried more than a thousand miles across the barren plains. And when the organization again became active, the record was brought forth, that its inspired teachings might give strength and courage, comfort and cheer to the women of Zion, Paul of old, gathered together the truths of the Master's teaching, and through his own great epistles, preserved for humanity the Gospel philosophy in all its strength and beauty. In a similar manner, the Relief Society women went through their 161 early day records and gleaned out the Gospel truths that were to guide them in their activities.
These truths give the foundation principles and the philosophy and purpose of the Relief Society work.
They reveal the part that women are to take in establishing the Gospel of Peace in these latter days.
Here are some of the Prophet's words of revelation and prophetic promise: "The Society is not only to relieve the poor but to save souls. "And I now turn the key to you in the name of God, and this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time. "You should be armed always with mercy. Be pure in heart. By union of feeling, we obtain power with God. "Work together in a cooperative manner, and respect and hold sacred the confidences of one another. "If you live up to your privileges the angels cannot be restrained from being your associates."
Down through the ages the wheat has been separated from the tares and garnered for the use of man. Is it not the obligation of each generation to conserve the best that the past has given, as a contribution to the future? Do not throw away too lightly the lovely gifts of life. Do no permit the really worth-whiles to be tossed into the scrap heap.
Standards and institutions that have cost years of inspiration and sacrifice to build, should not be cast on the wheel of chance. The ideals and traditions of a nation and a people, that have been purchased at so great a price, should not be permitted to perish; but should be preserved and wrought into the very life of that people, to 162 uplift and glorify the daily quiet tasks that make up life. MUCH of the history of any nation is gleaned from the daily journals of its pioneers. Is one of these precious journals, stowed away in some old trunk in your home, the ink on the yellowed pages fast fading into oblivion? Is Grandmother sitting at home alone and lonely, with a wealth of priceless memories that have not yet been recorded?
Perhaps she is nearly ready to graduate from the school of life. Any day her book of memory may be closed. Are you going to wait too long to record these interesting experiences, and permit them to be lost to you and yours forever?
These pioneer stories should be saved.
Memories grow dim with age. In a few years there will be no one left to tell these tales from experience. It is a great joy to any person to see his life's story set down in permanent form, but it is especially appreciated by those who tread the sunset trail of life. (GENEALOGICAL and Family Records, Books of Memory, and Treasures of Truth, are invaluable when properly prepared.
Certificates of blessing, baptism, ordination, etc., should be carefully kept.
What of the miraculous manner in which God's watch care has been over you and yours through the years? Why not make a record of these experiences? Modern Miracles, by Jeremiah Stokes, is a real contribution to the faith-promoting publications of the Church. Our theologians, historians, biographers and poets, from year to year, are adding to and enriching the literature of the Latter-day Saints. And monuments in stone and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE bronze are recording the deeds of matchless valor of those early day men and women who trod the lone trails stretching across the prairie, to establish a commonwealth in the heart of the desert. Are you writing the story of your life?
When you embark on your last great adventure will your loved ones have to scurry through a few scraps of information to supply the demands of the news reporter? Why not begin the writing of your biography while your mind is still alert and your memory dependable? You know, as no one else can ever know, what has made the biggest mark on your life. In writing your story do not give space to a clutter of uneventful prose; neither should you make it a weather report nor a calendar of social events. In looking back over your life, select the big moments; the events that have shaped your life; the high lights; the sweetest, happiest moments; the tenderest remembrances. You might include some old sweet songs, or bits of poetry, wise sayings, new truths, amusing stories. But above all, let it reach the depths of your inmost life.
Make it a record of your highest aspirations, your best plans, your greatest achievements and your loveliest memories; that it may be an inspiration and a joy to all those who read it.
Busy mothers seldom find time for daily journals.
That need not discourage them. A weekly or a monthly report will serve their purpose quite as well.
Some persons make a written report to themselves once each year. A report at regular intervals is an urge to progressive activity. In every life there are some moments of leisure. Why not use a portion of this free time to salvage some of the worth-whiles of life?