[Vol24 | March 1937 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: A Rational McConkie]

A Rational Proposal By Vivian R. McConkie HEN in human industry it \) \ was discovered that two people working together could accomplish more than the sum of their work separately, the beginning of the modern doctrine of industrial co-operation began. The same theory proves true in the uniting of efforts of ecclesiastical organizations. In any organization cooperation of the different members of the group is essential for efficient and wholesome activity. Likewise, the co-operation of groups is a step toward a bigger, more concentrated, and influential program. The virtue and permanence of this closer relationship would be insured by a hygienic, progressive attitude, which would avert disintegrating conditions and would maintain coherence and solidarity by purposive activity in the performance of significant organization projects, to which all could contribute for a common purpose. As a result an attitude of confidence would pervade the organizations, for confidence is developed and is maintained by purposive activity and by productive achievements, without which the desired results of our collective efforts can scarcely be achieved. If the art of working together is helpful to social and economic causes it would be equally helpful in church organization, for all of the members of the church have, or ought to have the same purposeful aim in view. UST as integration is the most important characteristic of the wholesome individual personality, it is the most significant characteristic of the mechanics of church groups.
Homogeneity is an equally desirable condition for the women managed auxiliaries. The Relief Society, the Young Women's, and the Primary Associations are working for the same great cause, that is, to help their members save themselves. The integration of these organizations is vitally important, for it causes them to fit more perfectly in the plan of redemption, and is not too much to be hoped for. It can be effected by the women's organizations, for they have a common purpose,—a common task. But its accomplishment requires co-ordinated interests. WE do the things in life that we are interested in doing. Our interests determine our courses. We make our own elections. We have individual agency, so we classify ourselves both here and eternally. The interests of all mothers, daughters and primary children of the church ought to be challenged.
With close co-operation between the organizations of these various groupings, what could not be accomplished in the unifying of interests, by placing first things first.
Interests are of relative value. Our daily conduct reveals them, as well as our understanding, our appreciation, and our hearts, for the Lord gives unto the children of men according to the desires of their hearts. We ought, therefore, to elect to desire the things that will take us back into the divine presence.
Such lofty purpose needs all available power to help and encourage it on its way.
With closer co-operation of the organizations in whose care is entrusted all of the women and children of the church, every member could be accounted for. A RATIONAL PROPOSAL ANY do not have sufficient understanding of the worth while things of life to intelligently evaluate.
Many are deceived by the craftiness of men, and follow after vain things, and neglect eternal values.
Some church members are interested wholly in educational pursuits. A few have brilliant minds but lack balance and faith in God.
With the great variety of existing conditions it is comprehendable why only a part of the women of the Church are enrolled or actively interested in the women's organizations. Our problems are so interrelated that if they were viewed from a larger perspective, with clearness of vision of important and practical affairs, with the co-operative efforts of all of the women and of all of the children in the church, a greater degree of perfection could be reached. No organization would lose its identity through this enlarged vision and extended interests. To do so would merely contemplate unifying efforts and would continually keep in mind the big purpose of it all. The women's organizations of the Church could purposively and attentively co-ordinate their. Plans, and the execution of them, in such a way as to solve many problems that threaten us. For instance, the living of church standards would be a significant task to work on. I have unbounded confidence in the influence of good women, in this respect. Our efforts would be incommensurate. If conditions can not be justified as they are; if there is waste of energy or loss of effort, or failure in attainment, then something ought to be done about it. The Lord has given ' us the organization and the agency to act, and we ought to move forward according to newly created conditions. We ought to keep apace, mechanically, with the need.
That seems to be the Lord's plan. If our efforts 157 are less fruitful we ought to inquire whether we ought to mend our methods. How great a force for righteousness it would be if all Relief Society mothers; all Mutual girls, and all Primary children, acted according to their knowledge; if each knew how to live, and if each had the will to purposively co-ordinate mind and body. No wind is favorable to the captain who does not know the port to which he is bound. THE Church Security Plan offers wonderful opportunity for collective planning, co-operatively administered. The plan of the priesthood is a plan of co-operation. The progress of the whole Church program is dependent upon this principle. It seems clear that a co-operative plan for the women's organizations could and ought to be worked out. By that I mean a plan that is best for all concerned, that will obtain the best results. The women ought to develop a plan that would be best for their executive officers,— one that is best for all the members of the organization; one that would give to them the greatest opportunity to serve, and one that would develop the keenest possible helpful desires. It ought to hold up and to magnify the fine standards of the Church, for only through them can there come a high degree of excellence.
Careful co-ordination of the efforts of the executives of the Relief Society, and of the Young Women and of the Primary, in the distribution of responsibility to their membership, is an important thing to insure success. All persons must put forth an effort worthy of themselves, then the results will be so much greater. No matter how hard the officers work, with their limited physical strength, they can not hope to accomplish all that their members can do.
There must be no lowering of standards in the execution of these 158 duties. On the contrary the standards of the people must be made comparable to the standards of the Church.
There must be established, in the hearts of members, a healthy attitude toward projects so estimable as caring for the needy, the development of faith, the establishment of good character, and the understanding of the gospel.
Each must be taught that the response of the individual will be representative of themselves; that the gift is worthy the giver. NOTHER virtue of close relationship would be that all would become acquainted with the programs of each other, as well as with their needs, their capabilities, and with their strength, which would inevitably lead to a closer understanding, and to greater love one toward another. Our problems are all so interrelated, and we are all so interdependent that youths' problems are mother's problems, and children's problems are the problems of both youth and mother.
Closer co-ordination of these auxiliaries would aid the gospel plan, which has been given for the blessing and for the progress of man, in its forward march, and would aid the women of the Church to more clearly see, as a whole, and to unify their efforts.
With this greater interest all special drives, which, after all, are instituted for personal salvation, accomplished through the furtherance of the Lord's purposes, could be accomplished with less effort and with greater efficiency. For instance, the children's hospital penny drive, a project assigned to the Primary, carries individual responsibility, but the mother, who is a Relief Society member, possessing understanding and being aware of the project, could prepare the family to receive the Primary workers, and to satisfy their RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE needs. A vast increase of pennies would result, if every family were so organized and taught.
Every member of the family would be learning to give.
What an achievement! To learn, early and well, how to give.
When these primary children and mutual girls become mothers, they, having learned to give, would be disposed to make a suitable monthly contribution to the Relief Society, for charitable purposes.
Having been a ward Relief Society president for some years, the need of generosity has been doubly clear to me.
People do not give because they have an abundance. Of course, one can not give that which he has not, but generally we give because we have learned to give.
Generosity is less universal than is selfishness.
Commonly it must be developed.
Many people must learn to give or they will never be generous. It is hard to deny one's self of coveted pleasures, or of that which one needs badly, to give for another. We love material substance, and before we can learn to part with it, a long course of training is usually necessary. One must be elevated to a higher level before he is generous. "He must have developed a good heart. We respond because our hearts have been touched, and our training determines whether our hearts can be touched. The statement: "If I had I would give," like many virtues, is over-worked. It would be well if all who could give would do so, and if all who have not would honestly say that they would if they had. But there are only a few who can not give, if it is not more than the widow's mite.
Many women would give, not if they had the ability, but if they had the desire to give,—if they were acquainted with generosity, and with the joy of freely giving. The rule is, and it seems natural enough, that the A RATIONAL PROPOSAL needs and the desires of men exceed their ability to acquire, so, when they give it is a sacrifice. By force of long development and of will they learn to place self in the background, and to give because they have cultivated the desire to give, and not because their wants or their needs have been gratified. An exception to this rule is the case of the rich man, which is so rare as to need no comment. I vision the day, when, through close co-operation between the women's organizations of the Church, all Latter-day Saint girls who grow to womanhood in Church activity, and who have homes of their own, will have been taught that they are expected to so budget their expenditures that they can give a monthly contribution to the visiting Relief Society teachers, and who will be willing to do so without pain.
With the merging of efforts of these organizations, and with mutual adjustments made, and with the technique of working together learned, duplication of effort will be eliminated.
Take for example an enlistment project of "Every member accounted for." One group of workers could make the survey for the three organizations concerned.
Assume that the Relief Society visiting teachers were given, early in the season, before the fall meetings begin, a prepared questionnaire, and were asked to fill in the names, addresses, ages, and telephone numbers of the 159 members of the family, From the information an enlistment secretary could prepare a list of eligibles for all three organizations, and place them in the hands of the several executives.
Each presidency could, in that manner, acquire all the information regarding prospective members, etc., that a separate group of workers could supply, and what is more important, all of the organizations would become gospel conscious, with relation to the whole scheme of the women's organizations; family interest would be aroused; mothers would be “auxiliary" minded, and all would grow "Tuesday conscious,' and there would be a broadening of services rendered on that day. Finally, the conception that the gospel is for man would impress itself upon us and we could unite our full efforts toward righteousness. We could vitalize such slogans as: Faith enough to trust in the Lord; If the Lord be God, serve Him; A spiritual awakening in the home; Every member of the family accounted for on Tuesday; etc., etc. In short, more of the glorious blessings that the Lord has in store for the faithful would inevitably be our portion, if we would apply maximum co-operative methods to our efforts in accomplishing our Gospel assignment, which greater co-operation, it seems to the writer, could be worked out for the salvation of many and to the glory of the Lord. NATIONS will not war against each other when those who make up the nations have nothing but love and unselfishness in their hearts. The place to start is with one's own self—Lawrence D. Wright. EMPERANCE and labor are the two best physicians of man; labor sharpens the appetite, and temperance prevents from indulging to excess.—Rousseau.