[Vol24 | March 1937 | Sequence: 29 | Category: Guide | Title: Work and Business]

Work and Business Floors AND Floor Coverings Handicraft, pp. 28-30 HE floor, besides serving as a support for the furnishings of a room and affording a stable and level footing for the occupants, is the real foundation for the equipment of a room. If this foundation is not good, the effectiveness of all the rest of the room is greatly reduced.
Floors may be made of a large variety of materials, but wood seems to be the best for most indoor rooms. Concrete, tile, mosaic stone, and brick all have their place, but are not desirable where people sit and have their feet in contact with the floor for any length of time. However, a floor may have the appearance of tile by following the instructions given on page 28 in "Handicraft For Every Woman." The kind of wood to use for a floor is a matter of individual taste. Oak is the most popular because of its beautiful grain, rich coloring, strength and durability. Maple, beech, birch, pine and fir are also used. No matter of what material the floor may be made, the finish is an exceedingly important consideration.
Since the floor is also the background of the room, it should always be the heaviest note, as dark colors suggest qualities of strength and support. It has been said that a dark color and a wax finish constitute the magic formula for floors whether they be hard wood or soft Old floors where the physical condition is good but the surface is not satisfactory for waxing may very advantageously be stained or painted with floor or deck paint, or they LESSON DEPARTMENT may be effectively grained by following directions found in "Handicraft For Every Woman," pages 28 to 30. No floor is so bad that it cannot be made really good looking with stain or paint properly applied.
Walnut is the first choice in color for a floor stain, since it is dark and glows with beautiful reflections, and it is so neutral that it blends with any furniture. If the floor is in bad condition with uneven boards and unsightly cracks, a crack-filler will work wonders. Then, too, the floor that is painted some color is decorative, especially with a rag rug or a hooked rug as coverings.
Some helpful suggestions for making rugs are found in "Handicraft For Every Woman," pages 98 to 100. In most rooms the rug covers so much of the floor surface that it in reality becomes the foundation. The decoration of a room begins with the floor coverings, which act as a keynote. For all furnishings.
Choose the rug to contrast with the walls. A contrasting color gives a richer effect than a corresponding color; that is, if walls are brown or tan, a blue rug or one in which blue predominates will be more effective than a brown or a tan one. The correct balance of values between floor coverings and walls adds a sense of space and airiness to the room that cannot otherwise be obtained.
Rugs break a room up, making it look smaller, while carpets draw it together giving the maximum appearance in size. For a long narrow room the use of a carpet is the only way to avoid the appearance of a hall. The size of the rug is important; decorators tell us that a too 185 small rug is as much a misfit as a too small dress. The question of durability in floor coverings is most important. The better grades of domestic rugs such as the Wiltons, Axminsters, and Chenilles are made very much in the same way as the Orientals with a high upstanding pile which is closely and firmly bound together at the back, and they are fully as durable as the Orientals. Then, too, as in the Orientals, the yarn in the better grades of domestic rugs is dyed in the skein before being woven.
Since the wool forms the entire face and wearing surface of a rug or carpet, the amount used is a big factor. One can usually tell something about the amount of wool by the height of the pile and the closeness of the weave. The quality of a Wilton rug is judged by looking at the back. The more rows per inch the better the grade.
Linoleum is another useful covering; in fact, it is one of the popular demands of the day. It has been said that linoleum has "come out of the kitchen" and found a welcome in living room, dining room, bed room, and hall.
Fiber rugs and grass rugs are colorful and serviceable for use in sunrooms and porches.
After acquiring a perfect floor covering treat it with respect, for care and economy.
Regular cleaning of rugs to prevent dirt from working down into the back and possibly cutting the threads, and removing spots before they have had a chance to get ground into the pile, will keep the floor covering looking fresh and will add vastly to their length of life. 
  Literature (For Third Week in May) Lesson VIII Julia Warp Howe IN THE autumn of 1844
Mrs. Howe returned to America, and located in what was known as the ''Doctor's Wing" of the Perkins Institution. Up until now she had known Boston only as a visitor. "She had been the acknowledged queen of her home and circle in New York. Now there were many adjustments to make. She was the wife of a man who had neither time nor inclination for society; a man of tenderest heart but of dominant personality, accustomed to rule?" a man devoted to causes to her known only by name, one who was to spend comparatively little time in the home. The daughters Laura and Maud, respectively, Mrs. Richards and Mrs. Elliott, who are the writers of the biography, say of their father that during the thirty-four years of their mother's married life, "the doctor was captain beyond dispute; yet sometimes the mate felt she must take her own way and took it quietly." Nevertheless, while the book gives ample evidence that Mrs. Howe had problems to meet which any woman must have, married to a man who was both physician and philanthropist, yet there is abundant evidence that she was happily married, and that the children, six in number, enjoyed greatly the home their parents made for them. Dr. Howe soon discovered that his wife was not comfortable at the Perkins Institution so he purchased Green Peace, which turned out to be the children's "Paradise." As Green Peace was out from the heart of Boston, they sometimes spent the winters in Boston, where Mrs. Howe indulged her liking for company, and met, as was her wont through life, the prominent people of her time. It was while she was at Green Peace that she wrote: "Boston has been greatly enlivened during the past month by a really fine opera, with a fine orchestra and chorus, all Italians. The Prima Donna is an artist of the first order, and has an exquisite voice. I have had season tickets and have been nearly every night. This is a great indulgence, as it is very expensive, and I have one of the best boxes in the house, but 'Chev' is the most indulgent of husbands. Think of all he allows me, a house and garden, a delicious carriage and pair of horses." Her daughters say that through her life and her long widowhood she never ceased to call for their father particularly if excited. "Chev" was her usual name. At times we glimpse the long hours of waiting growing out of his many interests. In August, 1846, she wrote to her sister Louisa from Bordentown, where she appears to have been vacationing, "Sumner and Chev came hither with us, and passed two days and nights... Philanthropy goes ahead, and slavery will be abolished, and so shall we." These were the days when the young wife sang in her nursery: "Rero, rero, riddlety rad, This morning my baby caught sight of her Dad. Quoth she, 'Ah Daddy, where have you been?'