[Vol24 | March 1937 | Sequence: 31 | Category: Guide | Title: Social Service - Lesson VII: The Observance of the Law]

Social Service
Lesson VII
THE OBSERVANCE OF THE LAW
Text: Civic Sociology, Edward A. Ross, Chs. 17 and 18.

THE BEHAVIOR of the members of society to each other as individuals and in regard to group life as a whole has always been one of the important problems of social life. The attitudes that people build up towards the rights of others, and the willingness with which they temper their actions for the good of all largely determine the atmosphere of government.

Government has been organized as an administrative power to control and regulate behavior. It is the outgrowth of the small occurrences that underlie the general trend of daily life and may be likened to a rope in which each strand and twist contributes to its character. But some people feel that the social inheritance which has come down through the generations in the name of liberty and freedom grants them the privilege of being a law unto themselves without due regard for the consequences of their actions. They sometimes claim that individual rights justify behavior which is not in harmony with public welfare. Such rights, sometimes called personal liberty, are the outgrowth of centuries of previous experience. But as society has developed and its institutions have become more complex the manner of expressing one's rights has been changed to meet new conditions. The rules which have been devised to govern individual actions have been accepted as laws with the principle of group welfare in mind quite as much as for the protection of individual rights from the unprincipled actions of others, or of individual rights in the name of personal freedom. The willingness with which people comply with these rules, or the laws of government, constitutes the great problem of law observance. The subordination of individual desires to the interests of the group comprises the problem of social control. Greater social control and more willing obedience to the law is an important need of the day.

To improve the individual reactions to group situations and to law observance for the benefit of society as a whole, the following purposes will be developed:

First: To show the relationship between personal liberty and the social order.

Second: To develop an attitude which will contribute to better law observance.

Personal liberty may be defined as the rights, privileges, and immunities which are possessed by an individual by virtue of his birth and citizenship. They are his guides in the pursuit of happiness. But since the dawn of history the term "personal liberty" has received various interpretations which have given rise to a great deal of conflict and confusion in its application to humanity. Its present status has been achieved at incalculable costs. Every country points with pride to national figures who have given freely of their property, efforts, and even of their lives to bring justice and freedom to its citizens. The roster of national heroes is made up of just such fearless and courageous characters. National spirit and loyalty has thus been developed. The American and French Revolutions were fought in the name of liberty.

It is no wonder that today it is considered one of the priceless treasures of humanity and one which should be defended at all cost!

In the days when life was simple the privileges of personal liberty were very different from the privileges in the complex industrial world of modern times.

In the agricultural age man lived largely by himself, and, to a wide extent, his pleasures were whatever his fancy desired. Probably, the deepest tradition in the hearts of those who people the North American continent is laid in an agricultural foundation. There are three governments represented on this continent: The Canadian, the United States, and the Mexican. But there are many more nationalities. The population of these various countries is composed of the greatest mixture of peoples on earth. Also, the history of North America has been too brief to establish deep roots in the generations which have occupied the land. Therefore, without long established family traditions, without the welding force of a single race or nationality in any one of the governmental provinces (which condition is especially true of the United States), and without the background of age, relatively speaking, it is natural that the traditions of the countries mentioned should stem from the agricultural period which was the beginning of life in America as it spread from border to border and from coast to coast. It is probably the greatest single common bond in the otherwise contrasting hearts of the people of the American nation. For even those who have come to this country as immigrants since the agricultural age inherit the ideal of personal freedom and rugged individualism which has come down as the common heirloom of this era in American history. And that inheritance, as embodied in the agricultural tradition, places a tremendous emphasis on the ideal of personal liberty and freedom.

But it is well known that personal liberty as an ideal has lost much of its gilt-edge meaning in the impact of the industrial age upon the agricultural life. Life has become exceedingly complex. Economic power has become more centered in the hands of the minority, and the destinies of the many are controlled by the few as far as money is concerned. But even this condition has not deprived the great mass of the American people from still enjoying the greatest amount of personal liberty ever known in organized society since the dawn of history. However, since the disappearance of the frontier and the centralization of population, a great socializing force has been brought to bear upon this ideal. And with the increasing complexity of society, personal liberty cannot be maintained without a realization of the relationship of the individual to the group. A well ordered society depends upon the ascendency of the group over the individual. Personal freedom is an extended condition which reaches from the smallest unit of group life to the largest. Government has been organized to control this ascendency. And individual reactions must be tempered to meet the requirements of group life if the maximum amount of personal freedom is to be enjoyed.

Most people are familiar with the inalienable rights which are rehearsed in all of our civic teachings. Among these may be mentioned particularly the privilege of worshiping according to one's conscience, the freedom of speech, the freedom of the press, and the right to earn an honest living. When life was simple these ideals could be carried out with little regard as to what others might be doing. But as people became more dependent upon one another a greater amount of action in common has come to be recognized as essential to life. This can be accomplished only by the giving up of individual wishes and desires for the sake of the common welfare, or in deference to social judgment and social needs.

Another approach to this problem may be made from the educational standpoint. It is a mistake to look upon the child who is trained under the so-called system of "child-centered" education as the privileged child if such training grants him greater freedom than is commensurate with group life, as he is bound to discover when he attempts to take his place in society. It is the child who is taught the social ideal of the welfare of all and respect for governing powers who is privileged. The social ideal cannot be taught too early in life. And it is just as important for those people who enjoy special privileges and opportunities from economic favor to learn to appreciate the social ideal as it is for the really under-privileged to learn that jealousy, envy and destructive tendencies will not bring about their ideas of personal freedom.

To develop harmony of living, or to promote ways of life in which action in common is shared, laws are made for all people to follow. Some laws are permissive, that is, they grant permission to do certain things. Others are prohibitive, and deny the right of undesirable actions. Back of both types of regulation is the essential thought of directing the actions of all for the common good. These rules form the basic law of the land.

Since liberty aims to preserve inherited rights for the individual, obedience to law is liberty. Unless the will of the people, as expressed in law, is carried out the people do not rule. But liberty is secure only as the people actually do govern. Law restrains the arbitrary interference of one person with another. The strong are inclined to take advantage of their strength and destroy the liberty of others. It is the function of law to secure freedom for all and to protect it from destruction at the hands of the violent and the ruthless. Since the greatest amount of personal liberty cannot be enjoyed without some restraining power on those who would take advantage of others, that power, or force, is exercised by government. It is essential that there must be law and a government that has the force to execute the law if there is to be liberty. Such regulation is society's way of preserving the maximum number of personal rights and privileges for each individual.

The second problem in this lesson, namely: The creation of a sentiment in favor of greater law observance is vital to every living soul. Not only are peace and happiness dependent upon it, but the safety of life itself. A growing toll of death from the careless and reckless drivers, the jay-walker who crosses the street at the wrong place, the merchant who misrepresents the goods he sells, the dairyman who fails to observe principles of sanitation, and the family which knowingly spreads the unseen disease germ are but a few among the thousands of cases which are daily challenging our freedom in the pursuit of happiness. Each violation reveals the need for a greater social consciousness and an improved attitude toward law observance.

The need for education in this field is revealed by the fact that most persons acquire their attitudes and political philosophies in family life rather than through any process of individual analysis or careful study. The teachings in the family and the example of every action should contribute to the creation of a social attitude.

Each citizen shares in the moral obligation to maintain the law. One who aims to live by his rights alone is not fulfilling his entire social obligation. Rights alone are not a sufficient basis for a settled social order. The only possible basis for such an order is the conscious recognition by each individual of his obligation to make the observance of law a reality, even though the law may at times fail to accord with his personal wishes and interests.

Growing out of this principle is another thought. Because laws are often neither wise nor just, the possibility of changing them should not be too difficult. It often happens that a law is passed which is advanced of the moral standing of the people. A period of confusion and law violation follows. During the adjustment many justify the ignoring of the law or even its open violation on the grounds that it infringes upon their liberty or some inherited principle. As long as the law exists each one should obey its principles. Those who feel that it should be changed should register their protests in the manner prescribed by law, but they should continue to obey it as long as it remains upon the statute books.

Laws regulating the traffic and speed of automobiles are examples of the bad effect that the ignoring and personal interpretation of regulations can have upon society. The annual death toll of over 36,000 people in the United States alone and the injury of upwards of 1,000,000 more testifies to the greatest disrespect for law ever known to a well organized country. Thus the evil is two-fold in its nature. Many of the guilty and careless speed demons undoubtedly believe that the law violates the individual's personal rights. But apparently those people have never been taught the right of society to control the actions of the individual for the good of society.

The responsibility for teaching this attitude rests with the basic institutions of society, namely, the home, the schools, and the church. The church, particularly, has a peculiar responsibility as an agent of culture and social control. Perhaps too much time is spent expounding dogma and not enough effort is placed upon an attempt to modify human behavior. Both phases are essential to a well-rounded life, but the opportunity for the latter is not recognized by many religious teachers.

Several avenues of approach are open to those who would improve the social conduct of others. People may be appealed to through a sense of social justice, through the desire for sociability, through the power of social and personal suggestions, through the force of personal ideals, and through the sense of justice and fair play. Too often we expect action to be modified by an appeal to authority. Such a method is usually ineffectual, especially with the young adolescent. An appeal to the natural emotions and desires is far more effective than detached information of an intellectual nature.

The first obligation, then, of a citizen is to obey the law. The duty is binding whether one likes a given legislative act or not. Every one should use his influence to promote the attitude of law observance in both private and public life. When all people can so order their lives, law observance will be a reality instead of a goal toward which society is striving.

Activities
1. Make a list of the laws which are most frequently violated in your community. Prepare a short talk which could be delivered to the violators which would persuade them to observe the law. Be sure the appeal is made on the basis of the experiences of the listeners.

2. Name a few characters in Church history or local community life who have been good citizens in the highest sense. What are the qualities in the lives of these individuals that have made them ideal citizens? Show the relationship of these qualities to the principles developed in this lesson.