[Vol24 | March 1937 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: What the Relief Society Carruth]
Thank the Lord for the Relief Society Organization! But. Our work has only begun.
This coming year we must redouble our efforts, profiting by the mistakes we have made and add to our success to the ultimate triumph of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints in demonstrating to the world its ability to satisfy every need of the human soul.
What the Relief Society
Does for Its Members 
By Sara Hodson Carruth OR ninety-five years the Relief Society has functioned as the organization for service for the womanhood of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Who can 'measure the achievements of those years?
Today the lives of some seventy-four thousand members are being enriched and enlightened by the programs the society offers. — DURING the last decade in our country, as well as in other progressive countries of the world, great emphasis has been laid on the subject of Adult Education. It is interesting to reflect that for long years previous to this time the Relief Society had been carrying forward a great project of adult education for the women of the Church.
Definite lessons on vital subjects 144 were carefully outlined a year in advance by expert educators.
These lessons were studied and discussed each week by hundreds of Relief Society groups.
Group thinking and discussion were encouraged.
Many thousands of L. D. S.
Women thus learned to talk things out. The following words of modern scripture proved at once an urge and an inspiration, "Seek ye diligently and teach one another words of wisdom; yea, seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom; seek learning even by study and also by faith."
Through the years, splendid courses in theology, literature and social service have been given.
With such stimulation many members became students.
Classes in home making have received a great deal of consideration.
Special attention has been given to such subjects as home nursing, home sanitation and beautification, child hygiene, needle work and handicraft of many kinds.
From the beginning the members have been made to feel that they should continue with mental activity and education as long as life should last. The fact that these women were busy home makers with husbands and children to care for was, they believed, but an added reason why they should be mentally alert and, "go on learning."
Side by side with this cultural program, and always in the vanguard, has been the relief program —the service for human welfare.
Taught to give freely of themselves in the service for mankind, experiences of these unselfish women as they have gone into the homes darkened by want, sorrow, sickness or death have given remarkable opportunities to apply the truths learned in the interest of human betterment.
Perhaps no volunteer organization RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE in the world has so rich a heritage of traditions. The members lived and loved and worked together unselfishly, not alone because of their sympathy for their fellow men, but because they believed therein lay “Pure religion, undefiled before God and the Father."
Such has been the past of this organization. WHAT of today?
Never in its history has the society had so much to offer its members.
Among these offerings is a series of lessons comparable to college extension courses—lessons that meet present day needs; advanced thought, simply worded. The products of the best minds and the noblest workers are garnered.
World happenings and living issues are presented. The aim is always to discover truth and beauty that may be applied in the lives of the members. It would seem that no woman could be exposed to these lessons without becoming a better home maker and a finer citizen, No doubt the greatest spiritual growth comes through the study of the Theology lessons. As we meditate on the glorious truths of the Gospel and on the life and ministry of the Savior, our faith that we are indeed the children of God, destined to become like Him, is strengthened.
Thinking and talking together along these lines develop an awareness of our obligations and a determination to live in harmony with God's laws.
Thus a divine purpose is given to life. In the lessons of the Literary Department the works of the great masters with their deep understanding of human nature are studied.
These bring to the members a clearer interpretation of the values of life.
They revel in their lofty ideals and in their beauty of expression.
During this season many hundreds of our women have come to enjoy the
WHAT THE RELIEF SOCIETY DOES FOR ITS MEMBERS 145 study of biography as never before. It has proved a very real intellectual recreation. In the Social Service Department much emphasis has been placed on the rearing of the child—woman's most important work.
There are splendid lessons for those mothers who are trying to understand their children's personalities, who are eager to intelligently guide their loved ones along the paths of physical, mental, emotional and social health.
Community problems are studied with the purpose of developing civic pride and of making living conditions better in our towns and cities. The Relief Society offers these courses of study to every member without charge—free as the air they breathe. The practice of publishing the lesson outlines in the magazines each month makes it possible to standardize the work in all associations and places the lesson material in the hands of all the members. OOD music also comes in for serious attention.
Every woman has a chance to develop her talent along this line through group singing under good leadership. The Relief Society Chorals throughout the Church are bringing much that is fine, joyous and uplifting into the lives of its people. HE Society gives to its members the joy of association with fine, good women.
They grow by such contacts. The most beautiful friendships are formed—friendships that surely will be eternal. The organization furnishes an outlet for social activities.
Many lovely affairs are enjoyed by all the members.
They learn to get along together; to play, as well as to work together. Indeed, many of the members have but few other social contacts. HE Relief Society is a great training school for service.
Overshadowing all else is the opportunity it gives its members to learn to serve well.
Every member, no matter how humble or timid, may become a worker—a teacher—a leader.
Every opportunity is given for socialized self-expression. UR system of visiting teaching gives opportunity for thousands of women to participate. As they go into the homes each month with a special spiritual message and _ tactfully ascertain the needs of the families, there comes into the hearts of these teachers a great love for their fellow men and an increased charity for his weaknesses.
With an intelligent conception of social welfare problems they are able to encourage the distressed and disheartened, to comfort the sorrowing, and lift the burden of fear from the hearts of many.
They minister both materially and spiritually. As these teachers go about doing good they come to feel that they are richly repaid.
They find that they have developed a new fund of confidence within themselves, and that they have built up a new set of interests.
Above all is the joy of a deep seated conviction that they are doing the will of the Master. "Inasmuch as ye do it unto the least of these, my.
Little ones, ye do it unto Me." In such ways the work of the Lord is glorified and advanced. HOSE who have worked in the Relief Society for many years find a never failing source of satisfaction in watching the development of the members.
Women of little or no background have been stimulated to study and participate until they have become outstanding teachers.
Timid little women have with encouragement and practice become 146 poised and gracious presiding officers.
Many volunteer social workers in our cities and counties, who are now doing excellent community betterment work, have had all their training from Relief Society sources. WHAT a marvelous thing it would be if all the women of the Church were taking advantage of the opportunities offered. The organization set-up seems almost perfect:. The material for growth is prepared and placed before them: "All that is lovely or of good report" to assist them in living well balanced happy lives. However, they must realize that they must do their own growing. No organization can take the place of self effort.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Growth comes only through self-activity and by overcoming difficulties.
Think of the influence for good our women might be if they all were doing their full part. MY word of personal testimony is that the experience gained in Relief Society work has helped me in my attitude towards life and life's problems. It has broadened my horizon and has helped me to find joy in simple things. It has taught me loyalty to a mighty cause and has given me increased trust in my fellowmen. It has given me the fortitude and the ability to face some of the hardships and trials of life with a degree of courage. Humbly, I thank my beloved Society for its valuable contribution to my life.
