[Vol24 | March 1937 | Sequence: 32 | Category: Guide | Title: Child Guidance - Lesson 8: Some Suggestions on the Parent-Child Relationship]

Child Guidance
Lesson 8
SOME SUGGESTIONS ON THE PARENT-CHILD RELATIONSHIP

AN INTENSE emotional experience, as we learned in the lessons on anger and fear, tends to become associated with all the circumstances surrounding the child at the time. The frightening of a child with threats of the bogy man and punishing him severely act as boomerangs to the parent; the child associates the parent with the unpleasant experience. Since the parent is likely to be interested in getting immediate results, she loses sight of an extremely important consideration, one that should enter into the parent's thinking whenever any treatment is given the child; how does it affect our relationship to each other? Are we going to get along better or worse, eventually, because of what I do now?

Concentrated thinking on the parent-child relationship is the prime condition for successful child management. The parent, for better or for worse, always enters into every discipline picture. When sight is lost of the importance of the relationship itself, we see the parent who may get immediate results from giving a sound and impressive thrashing. But at what cost? At the price of losing the cooperativeness, or rapport, of the child. No discipline is effective by the parent when rapport does not prevail. Rapport here means a certain kind of intimate and friendly cooperativeness.

In this lesson we shall merely mention a few conditions that destroy a good relationship between the parent and the child, and attempt to suggest how a good relationship can be established and maintained.

Every parent is bound to make many mistakes in attempting to work through the numerous details of training a child; but if the relationship can be restored and kept wholesome, she is likely to be a successful mother. One of her first struggles in maintaining this ideal, is to overcome the desire to keep the child preserved as a baby. The attention of such a mother is obviously diverted from the child and the relationship to her selfish interest. If the mother's love is enlightened, she will permit the child to grow at his optimum rate. This point was elaborated in an earlier lesson on development. The parent's problem persists throughout the growth of the child and becomes particularly acute during adolescence when the child begins to change into an adult and to live his own life with a newborn thirst for freedom. The need for a wholesome relationship at this period is as obvious as it is difficult to achieve. To see the youth's point of view is more imperative during adolescence than at any other age.

But to look at earlier childhood further, the innumerable frustrations through which a child must go, and the many more unnecessary ones, permit a parent to break down the good relationship that might have carried over from the fondling days of infancy. "Don'ting" a child unnecessarily is a fertile cause of poor cooperation. But the question may be asked, What can be done for the child who persists in opening the refrigerator and taking all the lids off the bottles, who must throw things in the living room or across the dinner table, and who throws himself on the floor when you show affection for his little sister? The