Even as the Arabs By Lorene Pearson Why not make it a camping trip in preference to staying at home this lean year? ITH cut budgets, or prac- \ \ tically no budgets at all the very idea of planning a trip seems to bring on consternation. Travel seems to be one of the luxuries that can be gone without. But since this is essentially an age of going back and re-discovering, a very interesting fact has been brought to light. First, that camping can be enjoyed, even after the subject or subjects have been accustomed to luxurious resorts. It is a different type of enjoyment to be sure, but a re-discovery that will amaze the most blase. Second, that camping can be done for about the cost of remaining at home and mooning over the depression. Why not be pioneers again in the great out-of-doors? Sleep under the stars, cook over an open fire and conquer anew the pleasures that are ours for the taking. Every frontiersman, of course, gathered all the information possible about his trip. During the winter months he sat by his fire making plans, looking at maps and dreaming of summer months. The vacationer may take a hint from him. And he will find that once organized and understood, the camping trip is superior to others, particularly for vacations spent in National Forests and Parks, or, if he happens to have a flair for desert camping, he can spend a night or two on a picturesque, desolate, brilliantly starlit sand dune where no hotel would think of alighting. HERE are several essentials that make for a good camping trip. | The prospective camper should first of all have a definite knowledge of the country into which he is going. Secondly, he should know the capacity of his car for the carrying of The camper pitches his tent where his whim takes him by lovely lake, by crystal stream, or by lonely sanddunes of the desert. EVEN AS THE ARABS passengers and sufficient equipment for comfortable camping. Thirdly, everyone should know what can be expected in the way of enjoyment on a camping trip and then set about enjoying themselves. Last, but not unimportant therefore, the good camper should distrust the promiscuous information offered so freely by other tourists as to the desirability of this Park and that road. The chances are his experiences, standards and tastes are very unlike those of the listener. As to planning the trip and learning the country, these come first in the winter or spring months. The intelligent use of maps and books will help here. With the family gathered around a map it should not take long to have a list of travel possibilities that will take years to carry out. Here is the first caution—try not to plan all the suggestions for one trip, spread them out over a period of years. Travel, particularly that by camping, is more enjoyable when a little country is learned well, rather than a large country just passed over. The following winter must be taken into account, when there will either be the memory of a country well explored, or just a vague impression. Of a great number of places. Decide the number of days you will have to spend, then allow a reasonable amount of mileage per day for not more than three-fourths of the days. It is possible to cut down somewhat on the number of days to be spent in camp, but these are advisable if you are to rest up, do the laundry, read a little, hike or take some nature study notes, or do any of the number of things that the hasty traveler overlooks altogether. Now that the route has been planned find out what type of country you may expect—desert, National Forest, or a country where 427 commercial camps must be depended upon. These facts may often be ascertained from maps, or from bulletins and books that your librarian will be glad to show you. Figure out just about where you will spend each night. The essentials of a camp are good water and wood (if you do not carry a gasoline stove). These two things will very likely be found in abundance in the forests and parks. In the desert you can usually find something to burn in the form of greasewood, sagebrush or other woody desert plants, but water is a precarious matter. It is possible to make a so-called "dry" camp. And enjoy it, using a three gallon water can of the necessary liquid. But for the most part, it is well to plan a good camp for the night. Know, then, where streams are to be found along your route. OW that the trip is planned, the next thing is to check over your equipment. Two people with a coupe can easily carry all the luggage necessary for a camping trip inside the car and this is an ideal arrangement since the hazard of dust and rain do not have to be - taken into consideration as when equipment is tied on the outside. If three people go in the coupe the tent, (which is better than the bedroll for obvious reasons) can be tied on the outside and if necessary, old suitcases. With a sedan or coach, two or three people can travel as easily as with a coupe, using the back seat for storage, but if more than three go along, it is almost necessary to comfort and enjoyment to take a trailer. It is a mistake to take five or six people and then try to crowd the camping equipment in around them and all over the outside of the car. Nothing but disenchantment can come of such an arrangement. 428 The camping equipment for two people is approximately the same as for more people with the exception that more of each article is required in the latter case. First of all no more should be taken than can be packed away conveniently in an hour or less if possible. For two people a folding springs, or two air mattresses should come first. Sleeping comfortably is an essential. The bed roll should consist of wool blankets sufficient for cold mountain nights and either sheets or a cotton blanket that can be washed and small pillows. One large pillow divided and made into two is ideal. The roll is better rolled up in canvas which keeps out dust and which may be put on the ground without soiling the blankets. A small wooden box is about the most convenient container for the food, which you buy on the road as you go. The amount of food and the kind will vary, so that the arrangement won't remain the same. It is well to carry with you from the start the staples, such as salt, flour, lard, a can or two of beans and soup for emergency and sugar, coffee and tea. Butter is best kept in a glass jar so that if it melts it will not get on other things. Bacon also is best kept in a jar. The dishes, a set that will go inside a kettle or bucket, are very satisfactory. A frying pan should complete the table equipment. Two suitcases should be enough. In one may be carried the clothing necessary to dress up when in town, or ina Park hotel for dinner and dancing. Also in this case should be extra room for clean camp shirts, underwear, socks and towels. In the other case are the things being used every day, such as pajamas, towels, toilet equipment, etc. This case is the only one, then, that needs to be opened every night, a good time - siphon in. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE saver, because packing suitcases is a task. It is convenient to take along an inexpensive little gasoline stove for cooking. This does away with blackened dishes that are hard to handle. The romance of the campfire need not be dispensed with; it can be kept burning nearby. A word here about keeping this little stove filled with gasoline. Some tourists will carry the tank of their stove down to the gasoline pump to be filled, which it needs about every other night. It is more convenient to take along a rubber tube several feet long, with a glass pipe on one end. There are now on the market little pumps that start the gasoline siphoning from the tank of your car into the stove, but these are not necessary. The rubber end of the tube can be put in the gas tank of the car and by sucking on the other end the gasoline can be brought up to the glass. You can watch for the rise of the liquid so that you need not get it in your mouth. However, a little gasoline will not hurt you beyond a little disagreeableness of taste unless it is ethyl. The glass end can then be inserted in the opening of the stove's tank and the gasoline will A tent should be taken. For two people with air mattresses, the teepee type is excellent. With springs the wall tent or umbrella type are excellent. In most Parks, now, table and chairs are available, but if it is desired a small folding table and chairs that fit inside may be part of the camp equipment. Depending on the trip a brief case of books, a portable typewriter, cameras and gasoline lantern may be tucked in. A good set of tires all around and at least a fairly good spare and you should be ready for the time of your life. These camping articles may be purchased for less than one hundred dollars and they last for years with care. One EVEN AS THE ARABS 429 The open fire is the hearth stone of the camper. Here he comes for comfort after the explorations of the day. Camping trip will surely mean another.. HE organization and management of the trip are no less important than the planning and equipment. Distribution of camp duties comes first. If there are five in the party and only one member to pack, cook, etc., the caravan cannot help being slow to start in the morning and late at getting into camp. Cheerfulness and good will lead to enjoyment and these come most easily when each person has a duty to perform. One person may have charge of the dishes. He or she should know how many plates, knives, forks and spoons there are so that he may count them as they are packed, thus avoiding delay in repacking if another dish is found. Thus _ each member should have a specific duty. Bodily functions must be kept in good condition if everyone is to remain happy. The fewest departures from the habits. You are accustomed to is the best way to accomplish this. Camp so that supper may be on time is not as inconsequential as it may seem, If it isa gloomy day stop at Making an early noon and cook a good hot lunch. If it seems you will not be able to make the camp you planned until late in the evening it is wise either to stop and eat on time and then go on, or to make camp at some closer point. Needless to say, early rising and early starting is also important. OW, you may ask, what are the especial enjoyments of a camping trip? First of all, there is joy in "performing the very duties of the camp—the smell of the wood fire burning, which you have built and kindled, the smell of bacon frying which has a special odor when mixed with the scent of pine and there is the special joy of rolling out the nice clean bed when you are so tired that the hard ground would even feel heavenly. But besides these everyday occurrences there are always conditions that can be capitalized as they arise. If the camp chances to be near a good trout stream or a good lake do some fishing. Even if you are an indifferent angler fishing has many compensations in exercise and the discovery of lovely spots. There are always pictures to be taken, botany  specimens to be gathered or sketching to be done. The point is to do something, to make the most of whatever is at hand. If it is a rainy day and you do not enjoy hiking in the rain, get out your book, get into the car, roll up the windows and read. Or maybe get that delicious feast ready for those who will be returning hungry. By all means take a camping trip if the amount of money to be spent is limited. There is little or no charge for camps on a trip that will include National Forests, Parks, or deserts of the West. Gasoline and Park entrance fees, which are small, will constitute the chief cost of the trip. Food has to be eaten at home. This summer why not fold your tent "like the Arabs and silently steal away."