A Parsee Wedding By Marcia K. Howells
THE Parsees are a remarkable community. There are only about 60,000 of them in Bombay and only about half as many as that in the rest of India. They make up in importance what they lack in numbers. They are highly educated, energetic, enterprising, progressive and rich. They build and endow hospitals for both men and animals. They have a pure and lofty religion, and they order their lives by it.'—Mark Twain. I FIRST saw the bride at the altar. His majesty, the groom, had not yet appeared. She was tall, lovely and graceful. Her eyes were dark with the mystery of the orient, yet her skin was fair as that of a northern girl. Brides are interesting in any land, but this Parsee bride was pleasing to the eye with her dignity, supple grace and rare beauty. She furnished a picture never to be forgotten. Her flowing white robes, trimmed with gold and intricately draped, clung to her well-moulded form. The only ear I could see held a large diamond, and a rare string of pearls hung from her beautiful neck. A PARSEE WEDDING Her arms were heavy with presents for the groom. With the first appraising glance I thought surely she must be the prize for some wealthy rajah—but no—a Parsee bride waiting for the groom. The Parsees have never intermarried. He was just a scared young man, dressed in white silk, with a funny little black cap on the back of his head. His arms were heaped with presents for the bride —silk, silver and a couple of drinking bowls. The Parsees came from Persia, to India, many hundreds of years ago, the finest race of Orientals in all the East. They are called the Jews of India, they freely share their vast wealth with needy Hindoo neighbors. It was an open-air wedding, with a temporary altar erected in the court-yard. Rich rugs were thrown around on the grass while silken flags formed a canopy above. Sweet perfume of tropical flowers made pleasant the air. It was a beautiful scene with the rich costumes, vivid colors and jewels in evidence, like an opening night at the Metropolitan. The wedding ceremony began just at sunset, for the Parsees observe all rules and laws of a very exacting religion. The native orchestra struck up the familiar strains of "Hindustan," then popular in America WEDDING 399. The young couple exchanged presents. The marriage service was long, the priests chanting, throwing rice, and reading in monotone. They were brave, that bride and groom, for during all that long service, they were constantly bombarded with handfuls of rice, but not once did I see them lift a hand to protect their faces. Rice is still the main diet of the East, and the throwing of rice symbolizes a wish for plenty. The wedding ceremony over, the reception began, but this bride remained unkissed. The Hindoos were served first—coconuts and cornucopias of sweets, which they took home to eat. You cannot with propriety open a coconut at a party. I was led up near the altar and the groom placed a beautiful garland of flowers around my neck. Then T was escorted to a long table laden with rare tropical fruits, dainty sandwiches and rich pastry. The refreshments were so good. Guests moved about in a gracious manner —the music soft and low—a big tropical moon came out from above the heat-laden city of Bombay. This Parsee wedding stands out in my memory as a most vivid picture of rare experiences in a strange country—a country where women wear rings in their noses and cows are considered sacred. May heaven bless and keep happy that fair bride and boyish groom.