A Land of Promise By Cora Carver Ritchte UD, mud, rain, rain! The horses' backs dripped, the wagon tongue and wheels were twice their thickness with mud. One wheel was pulled out of the mud to the hub and another one sunk in. Would he ever reach home? It seemed a long day since John left home that morning. It had looked like rain then but he had only four miles to go and he must get that cellar done. So he had been digging all day and now he must try to get back to Mary he- A LAND OF PROMISE fore night. He coaxed his faithful horses on. They jolted over a trackless plain and soon came to a rough log cabin. A dim light shone through the cracks in the walls. The only window was on the opposite side of the house. John was glad to see the smoke coming from the chimney. He whistled; then listened. No answer came, so he opened the door softly and called tenderly, "Mary Ann, Mary Ann." <A sob came from the bed. 'Are you all right, Mary?" "No, John; go as fast as you can for Mrs. Weaver." RS. WEAVER and John were soon giving all the aid they could to the woman on the way to meet death and life. It was well they had a warm fire and boiling water, the only antiseptic in that leaky, windswept log room. Quilts were hung on the walls around the woman to keep out the cold, damp wind. Pans were placed where they could catch the rain water as it leaked through the muddy roof. Two candles shed the only light. As the woman went farther into the valley of the shadow of death, the man and the neighbor worked faster and prayed harder. Hour after hour the woman fought on and on. If things were wrong no one knew it; if all was well, thanks be to the Father, for he was the only physician present. The man felt he could not endure this much longer. Was there nothing else to do? Did God want him to bring this lovely woman out on these plains to suffer, so far from all earthly help? Who was he to ask this sacrifice of her? He paced the floor in pain and anguish, the more terrible because he was so helpless. After ages, it seemed to him, 423 a faint cry told of a new life that -had come to them. Later, as Mary opened her eyes, she smiled and her lips formed the words, "How good God is." John bowed his head, kissing Mary's hand; his tears trickled unheeded down her callous fingers. Outside the rain seemed to beat more softly on mud and logs. The wind seemed to cry with less vengeance. Again woman's trust in God had conquered pain and death. AS the days passed and, the night of horror gradually faded into memory, the courage that brought this man and woman out to this desert land was born anew. Fresh hope came each day, for they were planning to go to their new home, the home that was to be the journey's end. "Are you sure, Mary, you want to goon? It is not too late to go back if you think it is to be too much for you," said John. He realized what a trial this pioneering was for his frail, beautiful wife. "No, no, John. I do not want to go back. We will go West. Do you think I have forgotten the promises we have received? We shall have a home for our children in this land of promise." She held her head high and looked bravely into the future. At last all their earthly possessions were loaded into the wagon and hauled to the new home. They were to reach their goal at last. The day was clear and cold. Her new home—a dugout, nothing but a hole in the ground with rough boards overhead. Cold, damp floors, no fire, no stove, no furniture, no light, no beds. Tin dishes, bundles of clothes. No friends, no one to welcome them. Could she go on? What about the baby? Could he live here? 424 She must fight back the tears. John must not know how she revolted. Yes, she must go on. Was not this the end of the journey over boundless sea and endless desert? She would go on; they would find a better way., John went over to the neighbor's to borrow some fire. He had carried a supply of sage from below the hill, and found spring water. Soon the crude fireplace was aglow. After a supper of milk and potatoes, husband and wife were ready to thank God for his protecting care. For had he not led them to this far West where they could worship God as they chose? And had he not kept them from sickness and persecution and the ever present Indian? Surely a better future was near. "THE next spring, logs were hauled from the canyon and a new log cabin was reared with a real fireplace, solid homemade tables, chairs, stools, chests, benches, and even beds were built, Spring was near! Soon they could plant a garden and have real food once more. One day while Mary was unpacking old clothes, she found some squash seed. What a garden they would have with wheat, corn, and potatoes! They had even planned to send to Salt Lake City and get some apple trees to set out. In the spring of 1869 they planted their first fruit trees. The large ditch was nearly finished. They carried water from the streams to water the trees and squash. The wheat came up with a promise of a wonderful crop. Thirty-five bushels had been saved over for the next year. That precaution would not be necessary now, with water in the ditch and the wheat fields so green. With 1870 came the grasshoppers to Mary's garden and John's farm. They came in hordes, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE so thick at times the sun was hidden as by a cloud. John and all the children and neighbors spent many weary hours trying to drive the grasshoppers off their crops. They fought them with sage brush, old sacks, willows and fire, but all to no avail. The ground was covered with grasshopper eggs, and as the summer wore on the pests seemed to be worse than ever. Mary tried to save some of her pretty clothes which she had carried from her home in England, but one day she discovered that the grasshoppers had been eating them. This was the final blow. The children were crying with the grasshopper bites. There were only a few leaves on the shade trees, and it looked like the young trees were ruined. This _must be the end. John came in as Mary was trying to hide her dresses. She wiped the tears from her eyes and tried to smile. John sought to comfort her. "That is too bad; not even a dress left for you. Why didn't they eat my homespun jeans? What a shame to take your only decent dress! Mary, do you want to go back home for a trip? It will help your cold and may cure you." Her cold had clung to her for two years now, and her health worried the husband. "No, no, John. I came here of my own free will. These children will some day thank me for all I am doing now. I can't help being angry at the hoppers eating up our apple trees and garden and now my dresses, but I'd rather stay here with you through all this, than go back to all the wealth in England." So they watched the pests eat up their sweet apple trees, the apples she loved so much. They saw the wheat mowed down in the fields. They could not save the feed for their cattle and before the summer was over they saw their favorite A LAND OF PROMISE cows and horses die in the pastures. The Indians ate the dead cattle to keep themselves alive. What was to be the end? Surely Mary had better go back, John thought. She was only a frail woman. Child-bearing, cold winters and hot summers had at last left their indelible imprint on her. She was now a consumptive beyond human help. She coughed day and night. She could not rest now seeing the grasshoppers eat up everything. But her spirit never said, "Turn back." John pleaded with Mary once more to go back East for her health where she could get better doctors. The neighbors would lend her the money. ARY looked out of the cabin window at the barren fields where countless grasshoppers were not leaving one green blade. Mary shook her head slowly; a new light came in her eyes. No she would still stay. God would not let her sacrifices be in vain. He would come to their aid as he had done so many times before. God was still in his heaven and would not forget them. Starvation might be at their doors but God could find a way. Suddenly they heard a roaring, rumbling noise coming from just below the hill. "Oh, John, go see what it is," cried Mary. The children were frightened and tried to hide behind their mother. What a sight met John's eyes! Great white birds coming right towards them— flocks and flocks of them. What a calling of bird to bird! What flapping of wings! How quickly they flew to the fields! What were they for? Fear gripped John's heart. What else was in store for them? It did not take many minutes to see the gulls were after the grasshoppers. John's. Farm was only 425 fifteen miles from the Great Salt Lake. All day long John and Mary watched these strange birds fill up on grasshoppers and then fly in the direction of the lake. Then back again for more pests. Mary, watching the gulls, spoke softly. "Surely, John, God is always good. What a miracle! Do you not see we are saved by these beautiful birds? This is surely to be our home. God has sent the gulls to save this land for our children." John was still the doubting Thomas and must see for himself if this queer prank of the birds was really true. He decided to go to the little mountain to get a load of sage, as it was near the lake. ~The shores of the lake were lined with gulls, disgorging the grasshoppers into the salty water. Then back they flew toward the settlement where the land had been cultivated and the grasshoppers were the thickest. The grasshoppers were washed upon the lake shore in piles as high as John's waist. But the gulls wouldn't even look at them, and no wonder—the stench was terrible. When John told of his discovery at the lake, the wonder soon spread. Many trips were made to the lake the next day. Surely this was a miracle! Dead pests piled on the shores of the lake four and five feet high for miles and miles! The birds worked diligently; the grasshoppers were fast being exterminated. Mary realized with thanksgiving in her heart that God had sent the gulls just in time. Her husband and children and neighbors could not have lived much longer. They had already shared with each other and the Indians until there was nothing left to divide. But now she had lived to see their home saved for her children. She had seen a mighty miracle.