Meat and Meat Substitutes By Lucy Rose Middleton
EVERYONE knows the old, worn story of the marketman who advertised three grades of eggs: strictly fresh, fresh, and eggs. A parallel is found in the grading of meats. A wise buyer knows in an instant which grade she is getting, but to many, meat is meat. For those whose budget is greatly limited the cuts of meat which have the most waste in form of fat and bone should be avoided. T-bone steak is an example. Although it is one of the choicest cuts, it does not feed the family to the same advantage as, say, the same amount in pounds of round steak.
Meat is a protein food and is easily and quickly assimilated by the body, which it builds and repairs. Other foods which perform this function are milk, eggs, fish, and cheese. These are called meat substitutes, for they can supply the protein requirement of the body with proteins of high biologic value. Other foods such as Jello, dried peas and beans contain proteins but not of the kind or amount to substitute for meats.
During the warm months our appetites call for food of much less nutritious nature than those served in the winter. Therefore, meat substitutes, or dishes containing only small amounts of meat in combination with other foods, may well play an important part in the summer dietary.
Scalloped Eggs 4 hard-cooked eggs. 2 cups white sauce. ¾ cup chopped cooked ham, chicken, veal, or fish. ¾ cup buttered crumbs.
Chop eggs finely. Sprinkle bottom of a buttered baking dish with crumbs, cover with half of eggs; cover eggs with sauce, and sauce with meat; repeat. Cover with remaining crumbs. Bake in moderately hot oven until crumbs are well browned.
Baked Macaroni and Cheese ¾ cup macaroni. 2 quarts boiling water. 1 teaspoon salt. 2 eggs. ½ cup grated mild cheese. 2 cups rich milk.
Cook macaroni in boiling salt water 20 minutes or until soft; drain in strainer, pour over it cold water to rinse thoroughly. Put macaroni in a baking dish then add the milk, grated cheese, and slightly beaten eggs. Season well with salt and pepper. Bake in a pan of hot water in a moderately hot oven 20 minutes, or until the custard is set.
Spanish Rice 1 cup rice. 4 slices of bacon. ½ green pepper. 1 cup thick tomato juice. ½ cup grated cheese.
Wash the rice thoroughly and cook in boiling salt water until tender. Grind the bacon and cook with the shredded green pepper until crisp, then mix bacon, pepper and bacon fat with the rice. Add the thick tomato juice and grated cheese. Mix well. Bake in a slow oven until the mixture is well heated, then serve.
Chicken Noodle Ring
Noodle ring: 1 package noodles. 3 eggs. 2 cups milk. 2 tablespoons butter. Salt and pepper.
Cook the noodles until tender. Drain off the water. Add the beaten egg yolks, milk and butter. Season well with salt and pepper. Beat the egg whites until stiff then add to the mixture. Bake in a ring pan for 1 hour at 350 degrees F. When cooked turn out on a platter and fill center with the chicken filling. Serve hot.
Chicken filling: 1 stewing hen. 5-6 tablespoons flour. 2 hard-cooked eggs. ½ cup mushrooms. ¼ cup pimentos. ¼-½ cup rich milk or canned milk. Salt and pepper.
Cook the chicken until it is tender. Let cool, then cut in cubes. Remove the fat from the stock. (There should be about 2 cups of the chicken stock.) Add the milk. Thicken with a flour and water mixture. Add the mushrooms which have been simmered well in butter, the pimentos, sliced hard-cooked eggs, and season well. Bring to a boil then pour into the noodle ring.
Tomatoes Stuffed with Crab Meat
Select 6 small well-shaped tomatoes. Cut the top off carefully. Scoop out enough of the pulp to leave a firm wall of tomato. Salt the inside and invert on a platter. Set in refrigerator. Flake a large can of crab meat and add to it one tablespoon of finely chopped green pepper or pimento. Mix with enough mayonnaise dressing to make filling moist. Stuff the tomatoes with the mixture and replace the tops. Serve on a lettuce leaf with french dressing.
Noodles with Hamburg ½ pound hamburg. 1 medium sized onion. 1 green pepper. Salt and pepper. 1 package noodles. 2 cups tomato sauce. 1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce.
Simmer the chopped onion and green pepper in butter. When tender add the tomato sauce, cooked noodles, and the hamburg which has been well browned in frying pan. Season with salt and pepper and Worcestershire sauce. Put in a baking dish, bake in a medium oven for one hour.