Spinning Wheel and Cradle from the Log Cabin Monument of Pleasant Grove A Pioneer Trousseau By Elizabeth Cannon Porter his home,—a log house plastered with mud,—with a flourish. "Gwen!" he called excitedly. His daughter, a slim, vivacious girl came to the door. "See what I've got for you. Hastily alighting he pulled out a bolt of white sheeting from his wagon, followed by one of unbleached muslin, another of turkey red, a parcel of gray linsy-woolsy, some flannel and a roll of gay-colored calico. His wife, who had now come out, exclaimed in wonder. R OGER HUGHES drove up to "Gee, Daddy, where did you get them?" queried his small son Harty. "Traded the span of mules for them. That Jack and Jill were getting so ornery that I was afraid of them. Was glad to get rid of the critters. The goods is mostly for Gwen for that trousseau that she gave away on the plains. Remember I told her that the Lord would make it up to her?" "Oh, Dad, what will I do with a trousseau when I haven't even a lover? Nevertheless she was touched and tears welled in her eyes. "How about Charles Johnson? He seems to be hanging around here 416 a good deal." He spoke of a young Scandinavian who had helped them on the trip across the continent and who had still worked for them after their arrival in the Salt Lake Valley. "Charles is a fine fellow. I like him but I don't love him," said Gwen slowly. Though no one mentioned him they all knew that she was thinking of Jim Murphy, the man who had gone away. "Flow on earth did you come to get so much cloth?" asked Mrs. Hughes practically. While the father ate his meager supper, for the people were on rations in the bleak year of 1849, he told dramatically the story. Freighters from the East, enroute to California, had heard of the discovery of gold on the coast, and anxious to be the first to arrive and reap the rich harvest, had unloaded their heavy vehicles, traded them for lighter and swifter equipages, and started on the mad rush westward. After the man had finished his meal his daughter went back of his chair and put her soft arms around his neck. "Thanks, father. The cloth is lovely. We'll make good use of it, won't we, mother? Whether I find a husband or not," she added mischievously. WHEN the Hughes family, not long over from Wales, had left Missouri for Utah in the second year of the westward migration, they had brought with them two wagons and several yoke of oxen. The first wagon was literally a house on wheels (for this old country family was well fixed.) A wide projection supported its canvas cover. A frame was laid across the back part of the vehicle. This was corded as a bedstead and made sleep comfortable. Under the bed was the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE iron trunk with Gwen's linen to be used when she was a bride. There was a door on one side of the wagon cover and on the opposite side a window. The door which was between the wheels was reached by a step-ladder. The floor of this traveling house was carpeted. The furniture consisted of four chairs and a dresser adorned with looking-glass, candlestick and pin cushion. The second wagon was heavily laden with carpenter tools (Roger had been a cabinet maker in his native Wales), a plow, musket, tub, bucket and culinary utensils. Some of the latter Mrs. Hughes thriftily traded off to the Indians for buffalo robes. Besides these there were the needful supplies,—seeds, flour, bacon. Drippings from the latter had been diverted to grease the axles. Father Hughes drove one wagon, Jim Murphy, a young Irishman, the other, with his saddle horse bringing up the rear. Although not a Latter-day Saint he had joined the refugees in their trek westward. Gwen wondered whether he had joined the cavalcade on account of her or for the spirit of adventure. She suspected that it was both. A strong attachment had sprung up between them, but when she urged him to join the church he said, "'Not till I learn more about it, colleen." "A poor 'Mormon' I'd be." Nevertheless he lent his deep rich voice to the singing of hymns around the campfire at night when they were safe within the circle of the wagons. He helped manfully in ferrying the wagons over flooded streams, shot buffalo for meat and helped fight the flames when the Indians set fire to the prairie. He also kept watch at night when squaws pilfered stew kettles from the pioneer stores. One night Jim drew Gwen into the shadows far from the light of A PIONEER the campfire. He put his arms around her. "Do you think that you could learn to love me?" he asked. "T love you now," she replied. "Enough to marry me?" "Yes, if you join the Church. My people have sacrificed everything for their religion and I shall always believe in it." In the long, lingering kiss that he planted on her lips she read his acquiescence. That night a great happiness filled her and she lay long awake looking up at the stars. 'THE next morning he was gone. At first she could not believe it. But his horse, saddle, pack,—everything, had disappeared. Several of the other young men of the camp had deserted with him. The time was approaching for the cavalcade to start. "Who will drive the wagon?" asked her father in consternation. "I will," replied Gwen. "Vou 1" "Yes. I'll take the deserter's place." She curled her lip. But her Welsh compatriots did not know how to put the heavy yokes on the dumb oxen. Then young Johnson came and harnessed them and gave her an admiring glance. Gwen, who had never driven an ox in her life, placed herself doggedly by the side of the leading yoke of oxen. She wore a capacious sunbonnet and carried a parasol in one hand and an ox whip in the other. Soon it began to rain. As the parasol was entirely inadequate, Gwen, in disgust, threw it in the wagon. Then her sunbonnet got wet and caved in. It obscured her sight and she took that off. By TROUSSEAU second © 417 night she was draggled, muddy, and forlorn. That night a woman was confined and Gwen, with Celtish impetuosity dragged out her iron box and supplied fresh linen for mother and babe from her stores. After that the Welsh girl took a savage delight in distributing her trousseau among the camp. Some of her lace adorned the body of a year and a half old girl who died. It seemed to. Comfort the mother's heart to see her child beautifully arrayed. Afterwards she was buried on the prairie and the grave heaped with rocks so the wolves could not dig up the corpse. A sheet formed the shroud of an aged man. A fire was built over his grave and the wagons were driven through the ashes so Indians would not know that a death had occurred in the band. Bandages were available from Gwen's store and 'ere the hundred-day journey was completed her cloth was used to wrap the bloody feet of the marchers who had worn out all their shoes en route. When her father remonstrated with her she replied stolidly: "I shall never marry and I do not want the linen." Many were the conjectures as to what had become of the young men and some scouting parties were sent out to look for them, in case they had gone after game and been overtaken by Indians. But the general consensus of opinion was that they had turned back. Hurt pride was added to the heartache of lost love. Jim had not thought enough of her to stick! Every day Gwen scanned the horizon for horsemen and paid little heed to young Johnson who drove by her side, for while they were in the Indian country the covered wagons rode two abreast. 418 So tonight here in the valley by the light of a witch lamp (a button wrapped in a rag, burning in a dish of grease),—the two women examined the cloth that so miraculously replaced the lost trousseau. They tore off sheets, measured pillowslips, felt the quality of the flannel. A knock came at the door. Gwen's young brother answered it. "Tt's Jim," he announced. "Jim!" The girl turned white. "Yes, Jim Murphy." A tall figure strode into the room. Gwen was in his arms, her head against his breast, her breath coming in little gasps. "Oh, Jim, you've come back." She patted his bronzed cheek. He held her at arms length and looked at her. "Why, you're prettier than ever!" Her face had flushed to the pink of peach blossoms. "Where you been, son?' asked Father Hughes. "California. One of the fellows got a secret tip of the gold find in the streams. We daren't divulge it. What did you think of me sneaking off like that, Gwen?" "T always felt that you loved me," she replied bravely. "You bet I did, and it was to get RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE wealth for you that I went. Had good luck, too." He flung a heavy leather bag upon the table. While the others gathered around and examined the heavy yellow nuggets, Jim told Gwen his story. "One day when I was sitting under a hot sun panning the gold— doing pretty well, too,—it suddenly occurred to me that it was just a pile of rocks." "What if Gwen is sick? What if she is dead. Perhaps some other fellow has married her! What good will this do me?" "The thought gave me such a turn that I gathered up what I had, made preparations to leave, and started for Salt Lake the next morning." "You're still mine?" suddenly. "Of course. See all this cloth we can make the wedding things out of." "Make nothing. We'll get married first. You can send te New York for your things, if you like. We've plenty of money." "What about becoming a Latterday Saint?" she asked. "T''ll be baptized as soon as they'll let me. In the evenings out there I read the Book of Mormon through," he said fervently.