Evangeline Booth, Commander Salvation Army
Notes to the Field
MAGAZINE CAMPAIGN
WE deeply appreciate the loyal support given to the Relief Society Magazine. It is remarkable how many subscriptions we have had during the past few years when dollars were scarce and hard to obtain. At a meeting of the business managers of our Church Magazines, it was decided that each publication should have a specified time for making an intensive drive to get subscriptions; although subscriptions will be taken during the entire year, this will be the time when the most subscriptions will be secured. The Relief Society Magazine has from September 15th to October 15th for its campaign. Previous to this campaign all necessary preparations should be made so that it will be business-like and effective. Agents should be appointed who value the Magazine and who are good saleswomen. They should be women of vision, who know the people and conditions of their wards and who will be energetic in this work. They should look over their lists carefully and see who is already subscribing and when their subscriptions expire. We urge that a short and intensive campaign be undertaken during this period and that a house to house canvas be made. Stake directors should keep in close touch with the campaign in the various wards in their stake and give aid when ever needed.
MAGAZINE AGENTS
IN most of our wards we have been very fortunate in having Magazine agents who have done their work in an enthusiastic and business-like way. We realize that this position is taxing and so we would say to our agents—if you feel after two years service that your enthusiasm is waning, your methods of salesmanship are worn threadbare and that you cannot put the zest into your work that you have done in the past, and if you feel that someone else could get more subscriptions, then we say that you may ask to be honorably released and your places taken by those who will undertake the work with new fervor.
LITERARY TEXT FOR 1933-1934
WE advise our officers and members who are going to purchase the Literary text for 1933-34 to secure it as soon as possible. It is now on sale, price $1, at Room 28, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. It will be very advantageous to read this book during the summer. This will give a fine background for the work next season.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON President MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN First Counselor MRS. JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD Second Counselor MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND Secretary and Treasurer
THE GENERAL BOARD
Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Ida P. Beal Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Katie M. Barker Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Mary Connelly Kimball Mrs. Cora L. Bennion
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Mary Connelly KIMBALL Editor Louise Y. ROBISON Manager Amy Brown LYMAN Assistant Manager