THE EXPONENT. 
		    —
	Two numbers after the present will close the
first year of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT. So far
its success has been gratifying, the subscription,
list having grown encouragingly–through the
assistance of the friends of the paper in different
parts of the Territory. Yet it is desirable that
it should be still more widely read; and im-
provements which we have contemplated mak-
ing in it cannot be made without a still larger
list of subscribers. We would like to see the
printing of the EXPONENT done in an office
owned by and used for itself, supplied with all
the necessary appliances; where young women
could learn the “art preservative”—printing—
and qualify themselve for some other of the
duties and employments referred to by Presi-
dent Young at Conference. But a printing
office, to be self-sustaining, in connection with
the EXPONENT, would require to do more work
than this paper now demands, and a larger
amount of capital. We therefore ask the ladies
throughout the Territory to kindly use their
endeavors to send in clubs before the 1st of
June, for the second volume of the EXPONENT;
so that the paper may commence its second
year with increased patronage, in every sense
self-sustaining and capable of accomplishing
more good than it is at present; and with
brightened prospects for the future. A list of
premiums will be found on the last page of the
paper; and to that list we would add,
that any person, or Society, sending in
a hundred names, with two dollars a name,
will receive a sewing machine, valued at
seventy-five to ninety dollars, as we can make
arrangements. This we offer not as a prize,
but holding that those who exert themselves
in this respect should have their exertions sub-
stantially recognized, while we can procure
machines on more advantageous terms than
perhaps any of our subscribers could do.
	We would like to receive club-lists as early
as possible, so as to know the number of papers
to have printed, for it is not wise nor economic


policy to print off a large number on specula-
tion, and probably have them left on hand
—waste paper.


