HOME AFFAIRS.
	
	The Annual Conference was largely at-
tended and was a season of refreshing. Presi-
dent Brigham Young spoke several times,
giving much, excellent instruction and admon-
ition.
	A pleasing indication of Spring time anp
Spring weather is the sight of little maidens
culling the earliest blossoms which peep mod-
estly up from under the edge of fences and
along the brooklet’s, brink.
	Those who are called to form a settlement in
Arizona, south of the Colorada river, are mov-
ing to get there, some having started while
others will shortly do so. They expect to ren-
desvouz at Kanab and travel south from that
point together.
	The last letter received in this city from
President George A. Smith and the Palestine
party, up to the time of going to press, was
written from Jerusalem, where they had
arrived. Sister Eliza R. Snow had stood the
journey and was proving herself an excellent
horsewoman.
	In few places in this city can an hour or
two be more profitably or enjoyably spent
than in the Deseret Museum, Mr. J. W. Young
proprietor and Professor Barefoot superinten-
dent. The collection is large and varied, and a
wonderful amount of information can be
gained in it in a short time. 
	The Deseret Teachers’ Association held its
semi-annual meeting in this city during Con-
ference, and was largely attended; while the
programme of exercises elicited much valuable
information. An address by School Superin-
tendent R. L. Campbell reached us too late to
be given in this number of the Exponent, but
will appear in our next issue.
	The meeting of Sunday School Superinten-
dents, in this city, on Monday evening, April
7th, was exceedingly interesting, nearly, if not all,
the counties in the Territory being represented,
while a report was also handed in from Malad,
Oneida County, Idaho. From the reports of
the Superintendents this medium of good is
flourishing throughout the entire community.
Much interest is manifested in the schools by
parents and children, the average attendance
is large, and great good is resulting from the
labors of the superintendents and teachers of
the various Sabbath Schools. It is a noble
work, blessing those who teach as well as those
who are taught; and has the prayers and best
wishes of all who seek the welfare and growth
in grace and in sound principles of the rising
generation.


﻿LUCCA has taken out her preliminary nat-
uralization papers.
	OVER 1,000 American girls are now re-
ceiving their education in English schools.
	A female student of medicine out West,
wrote home to her friends for $28, “to buy a
man to cut up.”
	A LADY thinks it very strange that when-
ever she goes to balls with an escort, he al-
ways goes out between the dances to get
some cloves to chew.
	A PROJECT is on foot among the numerous
New York ladies for forming an insurance
company having only women for officers,
agents and policy holders.
	ETERNITY has no grey hairs. The flowers
fade, the heart withers, man grows old and
dies, but time writes no wrinkles in eternity.


