FACTS AND FIGURES.
			——
	A VINTON man brought sixty-one suits
in a justice court in one day.
	THERE is a widow in England who enjoys 
an income of $2,500,000 a year. 
	THE “Sunday Journal” of Toledo Ohio,
gives three of its columns to be used by the
Woman Suffrage Society of that city.
	AUSTRALIA proposes a free school system, 
and compulsory education, in the interest
of civilization and free institutions.
	NEVADA pays her male teachers $110:75
per month, and her female teachers $92:16.
Louisiana pays respectively $112 and $76.
	THE deepest sea-sounding ever taken
showed a depth of eight miles and three
quarters, double the height of the Andes.
	A BRAZILIAN savant has discovered that
men were on the banks of the Amazon
29,000 years ago.
	A THOUSAND American girls for whom
the schools on this side of the water are not
good enough are receiving their education
in France and Italy.	
	A COLLECTION of twenty five well-made
pins has been found in the subterranean
vaults of Thebes—showing that the modern
pin is only a re-invention. 
	A RECENT medical writer of good authority
says: “It is certain that in our times, among
our brain workers, there are 999 who do not
sleep enough to one who sleeps too much.
	A CEDAR Rapids woman has invented a
machine for making lace, consisting of 100
bobbins, and on this has manufactured hand-
kerchiefs and collars and lace equal to any
imported from Paris. 
	DANIAL Webster once said, “I well re-
member a marked difference between those
of my schoolmates who had, and those who
had not, access to newspapers. Other things
being equal, the first were always superior
to the latter in debate, composition; and
general intelligence.”
	A MIDDLING sized man would weigh as
much as 4,000 wrens, and as much as 10,000
locusts. The note of a locust can be heard
1-16th of a mile. If a man of moderate size
could make his note heard at a distance
proportionate in comparison to his size, his
voice would be heard at a distance of 1,000
miles.
	EX-Governor Merrill, J. P. Casady, John
A. Elliott, S. F. Spafford and ex- Lieut.
Gov. Gue, have formed a stock company
with a capital of $40,000, under the name
of State Printing Company located at Des
Moines. The object of this association is to
manufacture patent “insides” and “out-
sides” for the newspapers of Iowa, either
Republican, Democratic or neutral in poli-
tics.
	THE number of women who aspire to the
baccalaureate of belles letters, increases from
day to day in France. Madame Ribard,
wife of a young physician of Nantes, has
passed successfully the examinations for the
degree of Bachelor of Arts. After having
presented excellent written compositions
the young woman was questioned orally in
the presence of a large audience and passed,
after a series of interrogations, brilliantly
sustained.
	A TOWN meeting was to be held at Dan-
bury, Conn., recently, to decide whether or
not to license the sale of intoxicating
liquors. On the preceding day the ladies of
the town voted on the question in regular
form, with the following result:—For
license, 2, against license, 457. On the 
following day the men voted—for license,
452, against license, 487.


