WHAT MOTHERS CAN DO
			       —
	To none is given greater responsibilities
than those resting on mothers in training
their children in the fear of the Lord. We
are all aware that when we receive these
precious darlings, from the hands of their
Maker, they are perfectly innocent and
pure. Now, mothers, we have these dear
little ones committed to our charge to mould
and fashion, as it were, to our own liking.
They receive their first impressions from
us, and how important it is that those early
impressions should be directed in the right
channel. We wish to see our children grow
up to be noble men and women, honorable,
virtuous and intelligent; we wish them to
be affable and kind in their feelings to each
other, and to all with whom they associate.
And it seems to me that we can have the
desires of our hearts with regard to our
children in a great measure, if we are faith-
ful in the discharge of our duties to them
during their young and tender years. If
we instil into their minds the importance
of being obedient, truthful, virtuous and
obliging, and are kind and affectionate to
them in all our acts, and thereby twine them
around us, so that they will feel that we are
their best friends and advisers, they will be
willing to listen to our counsel; and then
if they ever see that they have done any-
thing that has grieved their parents, they
will be sorry for it, and try in the future
to do better. We should not fail to instruct
them in the principles of faith, that as the
Savior, when he was upon the earth, loved
little children and took them in His arms,
and blessed them, He still loves them,
and loves to listen to their prayers. Our
children thus taught, when they are sick,
will call upon their parents, or the Elders
to lay their hands upon them that they may
recover. And so with all the principles of
the Gospel; they will grow into them, hav-
ing had them impressed upon their minds
in infancy, and they will not fight against
any of the commandments of God; but will
be like those two thousand young men
commanded by Helaman, that we read of in
the Book of Mormon, Alma, 26th chapter.
They had been taught faith in God by their
mothers, and they did not fear to go into
battle, for they had been taught that if they
did not doubt, God would deliver them.
	Not only can mothers mould the minds of
their children in relation to religious and
moral matters, but, according to the care,
thought and judgment they use for the
purpose of fashioning and developing the
physical organization, will depend very
much, the strength or weakness, good or ill
health of their offsprings during life.
	For the sake of their children, if not for
themselves, mothers are in duty bound to
learn as far as possible, and strictly observe
the laws of health. This subject will bear
much further consideration, and I hope to
see it largely treated upon in the EXPO-
