MISCELLANEOUS.
				   —
	SMIGGLES says  that the most thrilling
tale he ever listened to was that of a rattle-
snake.
	A PAYING vein of silver has been dis-
covered on the head waters of the Arkansas
river, in Colorado.
	THE New Orleans “Times” says that the
daily interest on what that city owes is four
thousand dollars.
	THE best indication of a let up of hard
times, according to the Miami “Republi-
can,” is the large increase to marriages.
	THE directors of the Commercial National
Bank of Cleveland have voted to add
$260,000 to the bank’s capital.
	A SOUTHERN Kansas paper thinks it can
increase the population ot the town by offer-
ing to insert birth notices free.
	IT costs $80,000 per annum to keep up the
city government of Denver and supply the
aldermen with whisky straight.
	Beecher had an audience of one hundred
and ninety-eight at Rochester, and the
society realized $1:17 after paying expenses.
	IT is the general belief that a decent,
respectable man is safer on the outskirts of
the Modoc camp that in a New York street
car.
	It is believed that in less than two cen-
turies English will be the dominant lan-
guage, and will be almost exclusively
used in scientific works.
	THE Jewell “Clarion” man says he is able
to keep afloat by drinking his coffee without
sugar and turning his collar three times a
month. He thinks that’s economy.
	THE first Russian newspaper was pub-
lished over one hundred and sixty years
ago, under the special patronage of Peter
the Great, one of its principal contributors.
	SEDALIA wants to give the cold
shoulder to 1,100 colored folks, citizens of
the town, by asking the Missouri legislature
to cut off the Ward containing them from
the city limits.
	THE table on which the Declaration of
Independence was signed is still in exis-
tence in South Carolina. It has always
remained in the Laurens family, one of
whose ancestors was a “signer.”
	THE foreman of the Newborn “Journal
of Commerce” is only sixteen years old.
He and his brother, aged fourteen, set up in
a day fifteen full columns of bourgeois.—
“Eastern Paper.”
	THE “Bridge of Sighs” was a passage
in the gloomy bridge connecting the ducal
palace at Venice with the prisons, through
which condemned prisoners were led to
their death.
	THE Cathedral of St. Peters at Rome, is
four hundred and sixty-three feet; St.
Paul’s, London, four hundred and four feet;
The Monument, Lundon, is two hundred
and ten feet high.
	THE foreman of the “New Northwest,”
Portland, about as neatly gotten up a paper
as comes to this office, is but 16 years old.
the paper is set up in brevier and made
ready for the press each week by the fore-
man and two younger brothers.—“Lafayette
Courier.”
	IN Louisville some kindly disposed people
buy nuts and scatter them in the park for
the squirrels, and it has been discovered
that the tiny quadrupeds are regularly
robbed by boys. When we consider the
depravity of the juvenile heart we wonder
where all the good men come from.


