							L. M. SMITH.


[﻿For the Woman’s EXPONENT.
	    AN INCIDENT IN PLURALITY.
				     —	
	When that true woman and gifted lady,
“Grace Greenwood,” was here, she delivered
a lecture on that inexhaustible and interest-
ing theme “The heroes and heroines of
humble life. Several communications have
of late appeared in the EXPONENT on the
subject of plural marriage. A Gentile
writer, lately puts forth the idea, that the
solution of the “Mormon Problem,” will be
effected through the growing dislike of the
rising generation of “Mormondom,” to this
principle. The foolish, extravagant display,
and inconsiderate expressions of many of our
young people, partly justify this conclusion;
but the surface expression of a portion of
society, is not the heart-index of the people
at large, in their different avocations and by
their firesides.
	When first I came here from the outside
world, there was much that being new,
struck with a strange thrill, and surprised
me. In a settlement some distance from
here, was a large family whose clothing was
chiefly of home manufacture. The third
wife, had two little girls who really needed
new dresses; but how to pay the weaver,
was the serious question. Said an elder
daughter of the first wife; “Get the yarn
ready and I’ll take it home with me” (thirty
miles away) “and weave it for you.” “O!
no Maggie! I couldn’t think of it! You
have so much to do, and need the pay for
your work,” responded the mother of the
little girls with a burst of feeling. The young
woman replied; “I think it a pity if I can’t
do that much for my father’s children! and
I will.” Noble, generous girl! It touched
me then, and has never lost its first effect,
when I have thought of it since. She had
not the money to purchase dresses to present
to those children, but she gave them what
money could not buy—the labor of love
from her own hands, and a place of equality
and honor in her own heart, as, “my father’s
children.”
	I hope this true “heroine of humble life”
will forgive the liberty taken; for it serves
to illustrate that such writers as I have
mentioned, have not seen all; and the picture


is justice due to many of the rising genera-
tion of “Mormondom.”
								A. J. C. 
Salt Lake City, April, 1873.


