FAMILY MEETINGS.
		     —
	No gathering can be more sacred and yet
jubilant, or should be more conscientiously
recorded in the memories of the participants,
than the gathering together of the “family
circle,” after seasons of separation have
elapsed; changes having taken place since
the old, happy days when the parents were
young and the children small; new associa-
tions having been formed, new branches
woven in, individual cares and responsibili-
ties having been linked with the funda-
mental household cause, which is dear alike
to each member. There are they all—the
gray haired sire and grand-sire, with his
best of all God's gifts to him, the partner
of his life, sharer of his every joy and hope,
counsoler of his griefs, his faithful wife; who
hath borne for him that group of kindred
hearts. Brothers and sisters and their little
ones all congregated once more at “Father’s
house”—fair, typical display of grander
scenes, the blest, bright future in Eternal
Worlds.
	No timid spirit, fearing to be seen or
heard is there, nor restraint is felt; one is
not higher, greater than the rest, but all
alike are free and equal.
	With all the different casts of character
comprising a medley of entertaining lights,
with all the varying tasets and impulses,
imaginations, fancies, whims, and thoughts
inspired; there still exists with all, in all,
one natural sentiment uniting heart to
heart, and making each one’s interests the
common cause of all. Love, is that senti-
ment, love which reigns supreme within
the walls of every true home. For no
abode, however richly graced or proudly
ornamented or brilliantly illumined, should
bear the sacred name of home, where love
is not, or not considered chief of all attrac-


tions. And in large families, will be found
such vast varieties from nature’s store, that
the admiration, fervency of devotion and
warmth of affection in every soul, will find
some rich enchantment where, upon to feast.
	Some natures are best pleased with their
own like, as some thoughts call for echoes
of themselves; while others most adore
their opposites. But in the “family meet-
ing,” every desire for congeniality, of a
lofty nature, can be gratified. There will
be found the jocund, happy boy; the shy,
coy maiden; genius riper grown; and pleas-
ing innocence of tender years. There music,
mirth and joyous wit abound; and holy
aspirations are awakened and expressed;
a father’s prayer, a mother’s grateful smiles;
brothers’ and sistefs’ confidence exchanged;
aunts’ kindly sympathies for childish way-
wardness; uncles’ brave, manly generosity;
nephews and nieces—all are pets with all—
each is in some particular respect a favorite
with each, and every one delighted with
the “Family Meeting at Father’s House.
								  L.


