EDITORIAL NOTES.

	POPE PIUS Nono has been very ill the
past week. He is old, and his death may
occur at any time.
	THE LATEST agony in New York journal-
ism is a daily illustrated newspaper; and the
wood cuts show all the evidences of being
hurriedly got up.
	THE SECOND Adventists of Groton, Ver-
mout, fixed upon April 12, of this year, as
“the last great day;” but as it wasn’t, they
will have to refix the date.
	INDIANA proposes another “new de-
parture,” by allowing women the suffrage.
Should the proposition succeed where will
Massachusetts progress be?
	A DAUGHTER of President Thiers of the
French Republic, died at San Francisco
during the last week of March, and the
remains were taken to France for inter-
ment.
	AN INDIANA parson determined that his
discourses shall not be wanting in both
rhyme and reason, delivers them in rhyme.
His congregation should escape future pun-
ishment after having to endure such present
torture.
	MICHIGAN UNIVERSITY has graduated
twelve lady physicians and two lady law-
yers this year; and yet some of the New
England States querulously question wo-
man’s ability to practice either medicine or
law. The West keeps in the front!
	WILL ANYTHING frighten fashionable
ladies out of purchasing and wearing false
hair? Here is another “ghost” from Cali-
fornia:	“Somebody sold a dealer in human
hair some hair that had been cut from the
head of a small-pox patient, and the dealer
took the disesse and died.”	
	KENTUCKY HAS a town named Elizabeth,
with a population of 2,500, which spends
$200 a day in whisky; $73,000 a year for
that twenty-five hundred souls, male and
female, infant, youth, adult and aged, to
swallow some ninety thousand gallons of
liquid poison! Very probably they think
themselves temperate people, too! 
	AND NOW word comes from Minnesota
that the “foreman” of one of the leading
newspaper offices in that State is a woman.
There are people still who say women are
not competent to become printers; but the
world has never been rid of that kind of
people from whom even practical elucida-
tion will not remove such unbelief.
	NEW JERSEY legislative corruption bids
fair to outrank oven Congressional Credit
Mobilierism and New York legislative
venality. The question is not, did the leg-
islators sell out to railway magnates; but
how much was paid for them. As the
people elect their representatives they may
thank themselves if they are twice so
afflicted with the same men.
	THERE HAS been a very general outcry
through the press against the action of the
late Congress in passing the increased salary
bill, and making it retroactive so that each
member could draw the advance for the two
back years; and in some instances members
of Congress that voted for it have been
asked to resign. The feeling appears to be,
not that the country should pay more for its
legislation, but that it could do with a great
deal less of the kind of legislation it has
been favored with for some time. It is held,
too, that no act of the last Congress became
it half so well as that of dying.
	THE WOMAN Suffragists of California
were in convention in San Francisco last
week, but the brief telegraphic news re-
ceived concerning it by the daily papers,
contained so little information on the subject
that we must wait for due course of mail to
bring a fuller report.
	IT MAY be considered sad to record that
a number of women assisted, lately, at a
case of “lynching” at Fort Erie, Canada;
yet the foremost in deeds of daring among
the Paris Communists were women. It only
shows how the gentleness of the sex can be
turned to fierceness by association with
rough and bloodthirsty men, or by famili-
arity with scenes of violence.
	DIVORCE, WHICH was at one time deemed
cause for painful reproach has now become
fashionable, and the lady of the period can
meet with the utmost nonchalance the former
husband, while she hangs on the arm of
the present one. Our grand-parents looked
at things differently; but they had a kind
of old-fashioned faith in honor, honesty,
esteem and love, that is little admired now.
	OHIO HAS a Farmer’s Club for Women,”
the members of which meet regularly to
discuss practical questions applicable to farm
life; such as making bread, best methods of
curing fruit, how to make and keep pickles,
both sour and sweet, how to clean house
with the least confusion, least destruction
to furniture and most expedition, and the
like. This, certainly, is more becoming and
more profitable than the idle gossiping
which is fashionable.
	MISS PHOEBE Cousins, who was admitted
to the bar as a practicing lawyer in Salt
Lake City, as she could not secure such
recognition in St. Louis, is an applicant for
postmistress of the latter city, a Washing-
ton paper says. Why should she not be
successful? Unless, indeed, it may be
shown that her services in electioneering
last Fall were not so valuable as that of
some men whose persuasive powers, or
whisky expenditures, were more potent
with the “sovereigns” on election day.
	DR. NEWMAN, Chaplain of the United
States Senate and noted as coming to Salt
Lake to shear but going away with but little
fleece, having been appointed Inspector of
Consulates at a handsome salary and ex-
penses paid, was authorized to take a clerk
with him at $3,500 a year; and knowing
that Mrs. Newman would also like to travel,
sent her name in as clerk. This was
keeping the place in the family, which
might as well draw the money as there will
be little, if any, work to do. Dr. Newman,
however, is not on general principles, an
advocate of woman’s rights; only as far as
Mrs. Newman’s drawing her salary may go
he possibly is.
	PRESIDENT GRANT has appointed Mrs.
Cunningham postmistress of Provo, Utah,
and we understand the choice is acceptable
to the people, as the lady performed the duties
of the oflice very efficiently for some time
prior to the death of her late husband, who
was postmaster. In connection with post-
offices, we might say, while applauding the
commissioning of Mrs. Cunningham, that it
would seem a little singular anywhere else
than in Utah that all or nearly all the im-
portant post offices, where any pecuniary
benefit is derivable, are placed in the hands
of comparatively recent settlers in the Ter-
ritory; while the old settlers have the
chance to run post offices where the pay
does not cover the expenses, and the work,
consequently, has to be done “free, gratis,
for nothing.” We say this might seem
strange anywhere else than in Utah, but
here, impartiality, or old settlers receiving
paying offices, would be matter for surprise.
	HORACE GREELEY soon followed to the
tomb the woman who had been his partner
in life so long; and now Mrs. James Gordon
Bennett, wife of the other great New York
editor, follows her husband. She died
recently in Germany, and of her an eastern
paper say:	“She	 was formerly Henrietta
Agnes Crean, who kept a small hosiery and
fancy goods store in William street, New
York, when lower Broadway was still a
place of residence. She was a bright, viva-
cious woman, of large frame and great
vitality. At the time of her marriage, which
occurred at St. Peter’s church, in Barclay
street, on the 6th of June, 1840, Mr. Ben-
nett made the occasion conspicuous in the
columns of his newspaper, and afterward
faithfully recorded the birth of his children
in the same manner. Four children were
born to them, two of whom, a son and a
daughter, survive. Mrs. Bennett at one
time wrote a number of letters from Europe
for the ‘Herald.’ and they were distin-
guished by much vivacity and dash.”
	THERE HAS been a surfeit of horrors
during the last two weeks. The Atlantic
steamship, from Liverpool for New York,
with over a thousand souls on board, went
ashore on the coast of Nova Scotia, some
twenty miles from Halifax, and nearly six
hundred of the number were drowned or
dashed to pieces. About two hundred
were instantaneously killed, crushed or
mangled, by a boom breaking loose and
sweeping over the decks; hundreds were
drowned in their beds; many more in their
efforts to escape; while numbers died of cold,
exhaustion, and exposure in the rigging.
One lady, after hanging to the rigging for
six hours, partly sustained by one of the
officers, died still holding on with a death
grip, her clothing nearly torn and washed
from her person, and the jeweled rings that
glittered on her tender fingers, shining with
mocking glare on the hand of death. What
a fearful sight must have been presented!
And not a woman or child escaped; they all
perished; men, only, finding their way to
shore. A mere contemplation in fancy of
the awful scene is sickening; but what must
it have been for the fated participants to
pass through, before death kindly came to
their relief! Since then heavy floods in the
east have done great damage; destructive
conflagrations have devoured property and
life; and disasters have been of almost daily
occurrence. These are signs of the times,
if the world would but open its eyes to note
their intent.


