HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Woman was created for a helpmate for
man, and while it is his duty to provide for
and protect her, it is no less her duty to
assist him in all the minor affairs of life.
Her province is home; there she should
reign supreme, her busy steps never flag-
ging, her watchful eye never wearying;
the welfare of her children, the happiness of
her husband, her constant care. She should
strive to make her home the most delight-
ful place on earth to him, that when the
toils of the day are ended, and he seeks it
for repose, he may find in it his cares light-
ened, his sorrows soothed; that he may go
forth again to the contest with renewed
vigor and with cheerfulness and encourage-
ment in his heart.
	Domestic duties, and even, as is often the
case, household drudgery must necessarily
fall to her lot, and though she does not
shrink from the performance of these, there
are those of a different kind which have
no less claim upon her. God has given her
a mind, has bestowed upon her intellect,
and it is her duty to cultivate it—it is a
religious duty, for it was given her for a
noble, purpose that she might be her hus-
band’s pride, a fit instructress of her child-
ren, an ornament in her home. She should
not suffer the common details of everyday
life to render her manners coarse, or sour
her temper, but always strive to be mild,
refined, and polite.
	But woman—“the weaker vessel”—frail,
fragile woman, does she not need encourage-
ment and assistance? Is her life, though
spent in obscurity, exempt from trials,
snares, and temptations. Are there no
rough places in her pathway, no difficulties
to surmount?
	Her task is great, very great, and while
she earnestly tries to perform it, should she
not be strengthened and encouraged by words
and tones of affection and approval? This
is due her. If her husband desires a plea-
sant home he should prove to her that he
can appreciate one. If she must soothe his
troubled spirit let him not be impatient
should he sometimes detect a cloud upon
her brow; let him remember that poor
human nature connot always bask in the
sunshine, and that one cheering, loving
word from him might dispel the gloom
which rests upon her spirits. He desires
her to be delicate and modest, refined and
elegant, mild and affectionate, then let him
not shock her by coarse and unkind manners
and profane language.—“Magazine.”
	A cure for morbid thoughts.—Eat
mush and milk for supper, go to bed at nine
o’clock in the evening, rise at six in the
morning, and walk three miles every day.
	Sick Headache.—This is attended
with nausea and sometimes vomiting, and
is attributed to a disordered liver. Take
frequent sips of warm water until the
nausea subsides, and then occasional sips of
cold water.
	Pearl Barley, with water, simmered
to a jelly, is a valuable food for infants.
Strain all seeds, etc., before it gets cold,
Mix with due quantity of milk, or with-
out milk if preferred, and give it warm.
This is a happy medium between oatmeal
and arrowroot.
	Cleaning.—All saucepans, copper or
otherwise, and all bright tins, dish covers,
etc., ought if possible to be cleaned every
week. Spanish whiting and sweet oil,
made into a paste, rubbed on and allowed
to stand a little, then wiped off, and the
things polished with a leather and dry
whiting, will make tins and dish covers
look very nice.
	Whitening Ivory. — An, approved
method of whitening ivory that has turned
yellow, consists in heating a thin chalk paste
in a vessel over a fire, and then immersing
the ivory and leaving it until it has reached
the proper degree of whiteness. It is then
to be taken out, dried and polished off.
This method is preferred by a German
writer to one that has been a good deal in
use, namely, placing the ivory in a saturated
solution of alum for an hour, and afterward
rubbing it off with a woolen cloth, and then
wrapping it in a linen one, in which it is to
be allowed to dry.
	To clean Paint.—Provide, a plate with
some of the best whiting to be had, and
have ready some clean warm water and a
flannel, which dip into the water and
squeeze nearly dry; then take as much
whiting as will adhere to it, apply it to the
painted surface, when a little rubbing will
instantly remove any dirt or grease. After
which, wash the part well with clean water,
rubbing it dry with a soft wash-leather.
Paint thus cleansed looks as well as when
first laid on, without any injury to the most
delicate colors. It is far better than using
soap, and does not require more than half
the time and labor.


