DELICACY IN CHILDREN.
				   —
	Dio Lewis relates a story of a wealthy
gentleman and lady whose family he was
called upon to attend. Several children had
been born to them, and each had lived to a
certain age and had then been taken away
by death. At the time when the aid of the
noted physician was required, their last two,
a son and a daughter, had reached the ap-
pointed age, at which all the former child-
ren of the house had been snatched away,
and the consumptive decline by which the
others had been carried off was irresistibly
and unmistakably fastening upon them.
The doctor entered, the house and spent
some time in watching the little invalids.
He then asked the mother if she would
allow him to take  the little girl into the
garden. She assented, and accordingly,
the child was carried out into the beautiful
garden which belonged to the rich home-
stead. “Which, of all the shrubs and
flowers do you think the most lovely?’,
enquired the physician of the child. After
careful consideration she selected a moss
rose bush in full bloom, as being, to her
mind, the most beautiful of all in the gar-
den. Then the Doctor asked the child if
she could not return to the house and tell
her mother he wanted a suit of her—the
child’s—clothes—One of every article that
she wore, he said to her. When the little
girl had told her mother, the latter went to
the Doctor to ascertain if the child had
understood aright; and when informed that
she had, did as requested, bringing a little
suit of her daughter’s clothes; shoes, stock-
ings, chemise, drawers, petticoats, dress,
pinafore and even to the “shaker” which
the child had worn in the garden. The
Doctor took the garments, and with them
dressed the rose-bush which the child had
chosen. Every thing except the shoes, he
made use of, cutting the stockings open and
fastening them to the bottom of the bush.
When this was done, “There,” said he, “I
will visit you again in two weeks madam.
Do not give the child any kind of medicine,
and let the bush remain as I leave it.”
	In a fortnight he called again, as he had
promised. Going with the mother to the
garden he undressed the rose-bush, which
was drooping and withered and almost life-
less.
	“See,” he said; but even now the anxious
mother did not understand the meaning of
the exemplification, but wanted to be told
still more plainly the cause of her children’s
malady. “Look at this bush,” said the
Doctor; “a little while longer being thus
clothed, and shut in from the air and sun,
it would have been dead. Now there is
still life remaining sufficient to build upon,
and have health restored by proper treat-
ment. It is the same with your children.”
And still the mother queried what she could
do for them. “Give them air,” said the
physician, “undress them, and let them
bask in the sunshine. But at first with
their heads covered.”
	His directions were followed, proper
screens being prepared in two different
corners of the garden, where the children
were daily undressed and placed for a season
to gambal in the sunlight, while the Smmer
lasted. And the remedy proved effectual,
both children commencing to convalesce at
once.
	This story, told here almost precisely  as
it was repeated to us a few days since,
we believe very many mothers would do
well to draw references from, both for their
own and their offspring's good.


