WORK FOR WOMEN-
			      —
	One of the most interesting and most im-
portant features of the late general Conference
was the many excellent instructive suggestions,
made by President Brigham Young, to the
mothers and daughters in Israel. He called
upon them, and especially upon the Relief
Societies, to assist in the people becoming self-
sustaining, and counseled them to save and teach
the children to save “paper-rags;” and thus
aid in supplying the paper-mill with material,
so that the paper used by the Latter-day Saints
might be made by themselves, thus keeping
at home the means expended in procuring it
abroad. He then touched upon the impro-
priety of large, healthy, able-bodied men, who
should be engaged in farming, quarrying, stone
cutting, and other suitable pursuits, being em-
ployed as type-setters, proof-readers, book-
binders, clerks in stores, tailors; and in all
such branches of labor, which were legiti-
mately work for women, and should be largely
performed by them. He wished the women
and girls among the Saints to be educated to do
all such work as belonged to women. He was
desirous of seeing the school books used by
children in Utah, made by the people here, and
this also should be done to a great extent by
the women. The female mind was naturally
better fitted for such pursuits than that of the
male. Generally speaking, girls would mem-
orize spelling, grammer, arithmetic and almost
anything taught in books, more readily than
boys. It was a mistake to have girls taught
nothing but to play the piano, and when tired
of that to go to reading novels; they should be
taught cleanliness, neatness of person, and the
duties of a house-wife; with such branches of
useful knowledge as might be desirable, as well
as music and other accomplishments; while
the useful and practical should always take
precedence, and their education should be
wisely directed in all things. The speaker
urged that measures be taken to provide means
by which the women and girls of Utah might
obtain an understanding of and make them-
selves useful in type-setting, book-making and
such other occupations as justly belonged to
them; and that they should take in hand to
furnish the schools and families of the Saints
with suitable, intelligent and truthful reading
matter; that the vast outside expenditure, for
the purchase of books, which were no better,
nor so good as many of the women of Zion
were capable of preparing, might be stopped.
The officers of the Relief Societies, and, after-
ward, all the sisters, who were interested in
the welfare of Zion, were called upon to testify
their willingness to sustain the proposed under-
taking by raising their right hands. A fair
vote was given; and unless the wives and
daughters of the Elders in Israel, prove them
selves less faithful to the trust reposed in them
than they have hitherto done—which, there is
no cause to apprehend—much good will be the
result of the suggested enterprise.
	President Young proves himself to be the
most genuine, impartial and practical “Wo-
man's Rights man” upon the American conti-
nent, as he has ever done; his counsels,
instructions and advice to women being always
directed towards their progess and advancement
in usefulness and the possession of valuable
knowledge. And as these facts are well under-
stood by the large majority of the women of
Utah, we look for a prompt response to this
direct call for united and energetic action on


their part, in furtherance of the great object
of the community becoming entirely self-sus-
taining.


