 THE GOOD SPIRIT.
				—
	The Prophet Joseph Smith told the people
to “get the Spirit of God, and keep it.”
What a sermon there is in these few words!
If we always had the Spirit of God, we
would never do a wrong thing; for that
Spirit leads into all truth and goodness.
When any trial or temptation besets us,
if we possess that Spirit, we are sure to
come off victorious; and have strength to
withstand all the shafts of the adversary
which are directed against our peace and
happiness. But how prone is human nature
to give way, and let some little trial bring
wretchedness for hours, and perhaps days,
when it is our duty to be happy all the
time. When we are unhappy ourselves,
everyone around us partakes of the same
feeling, more or less, and they feel bad too.
Consequently we see that it is a duty we
owe to our friends as well as ourselves to
keep the Spirit of God continually, which is
the spirit of peace. I think if we could
realize how much easier it is to keep that
Spirit, than to regain it after we have
grieved it from us, we would try harder
than we do to overcome evil; for I am sure ;
there is no one that enjoys being miserable
so well as being happy. There are two
things that we should seek and pray for,
namely, patience and charity. Without
these there can be no true happiness. Then
let us my young sisters, strive with our
might to keep the good Spirit always with
us, to help us to be Saints in deed as well as
in name, and set an example worthy of im-
itation.	
							M. F


﻿We are always complaining that our days
are few, and acting as though there would
be no end of them.
	Though a taste of pleasure may quicken
the relish of life, an unrestrained indulgence
is inevitable destruction.
	The odor of flowers is never so sweet and
strong as before a storm. Beautiful soul!
when the storm draws nigh thee, be a
flower.
	Our true acquistions lie only in our chari-
ties. We gain only as we give. There is
no beggar so destitute as he who can afford
nothing to his neighbors.


