F. R. SOCIETY REPORTS.
	
	Sister Priscilla Evans, Secretary of the
Spanish Fork Relief Society, writes as fol-
lows:
	The Spanish Fork Relief Society, was
organized September 14th, 1857, in 4 wards.
Mrs. Rhoda Snell, President of the first and
Mrs. Lucretia Gay, President of the second
ward. We have had opportunities in the
last 16 years of doing much good, in help-
ing the poor, and assisting to build up this
Kingdom. I would especially mention the
time of the Echo kanyon expedition; when
among other things, we were called upon for
lariats. Some of our faithful mothers
worked day and night, carding and spin-
ning cattle’s hair for that purpose; they
made and brought in twenty-two lariats.
I don’t know but some of our daughters
would blush to read of such a thing in this
enlightened age; but, why should they?
I consider every trial we pass through in
this Kingdom, if done with an eye single to
its progress or defence, will give us experi-
ence and help to bring us conquerors
through, if we are faithful to the end. I
find in looking over the old accounts—
donated to the poor at different times, $1,227,
to the Emigrant fund and building of the
Temple, $294, to the meeting-house and
donations of labor $841; total, $2,362.
Through the exertions of a few, a great deal
can be accomplished.
	Sister Snell worked faithfully for 14 
years as President of 1st Ward Society,
until sickness in her family compelled her
to resign her office. Sister Gay also resigned,
on account of age and a large family to
attend to; but they are always ready with
their good counsel, and to assist when there
is a call. Mrs. Letitia A. Davis, (deceased,)
acted as Counselor to sister Gay until her
resignation, when sister Davis was called to
to the Presidency, which office she filled
honorably until ill health caused her also to
resign. The Spanish Fork F. R. Society
was reorganized in 1871 into 1st and 2nd
Districts, Mrs. C. A. Williams, President;
Mrs. Ruth Davis, and Mrs. J. Warren, 
Counselors, Mrs. Thirza Thurber, Treasurer
of 1st District. Since that time we have
donated to the poor, emigration and other
funds $225, and have in Co-operative shares,
cash and goods, $130. A meeting was called
March 11th, at which it was proposed that
we dispense with the word “Female” in
the name of the Society, which was seconded
and carried. It was also proposed that we
continue our meetings, and have a meeting
for prayer and testimony every Fast-day in
the afternoon. Your valuable paper is re-
ceived and appreciated by many. Success
to it, and every other herald of truth.

	From Providence, Cache County, we re-
ceive the following:
	Our Society was organized, April 27th,
1868. From that time, we have prospered,
a good spirit prevailing among the members.
It is a satisfaction to us to know that we
may lighten the burdens of our brethren in
helping to roll forth the Latter-day work.
Last year the sisters here donated to help to
gather the poor from the nations, in cash,
stock and grain, to the amount of $171:50.
We have also assisted our brethren towards
erecting a fine hall that is being built, and
donated means for the benefit of the Sabbath
school; have shares in the Co-operative
store, and the wants of the poor among us
have been supplied. The teachers visit the
members every month and find out the con-
ditions and feelings, and see that none
suffer for the common necessaries of life.
We hold meetings every month, and fre-
quently we have sewing meetings at private
houses, making clothes for the poor. At a
meeting held last October, the word “Fe-
male” was dropped from the name of our
Society by a unanimous vote.
	Mrs. Margaret Mathews, Prest.
	Mrs. Louisa Hammond, 	}	
	Mrs. Margaret Fife 		} Counselors
	Mrs. Emily Maddison, Secretary.

	The following letter comes to hand, from
Mrs. Caroline A. Jackson, Secretary of the
Relief Society of St. George, Washington
County:
	At a meeting in November our branch of
the Relief Society voted to drop the word
“Female” as recommended by Sister Eliza
R. Snow. During the past winter our
meetings have been well attended, and at
our first meeting in January 1873, President
Anna L. Ivins suggested to omit work and
substitute prayer and testimony as a fitting
beginning of the New Year, which was
done, and the spirit of the Lord was made
manifest in a remarkable manner.
	On the 14th of February, at a dinner
given to President Young and party, much
good instruction was given to the members
of the Society and a new interest was
awakened which has resulted in many new
members being added to our number, and a
prompt attendance of old members. We
feel honored in having our names enrolled
in this organization, and desire with our
sisters in the more favored “North,” to
help build up the Kingdom of God on the
earth.

	From South Cottonwood Ward, we have
received the following report:
	The Relief Society of this place is in a
flourishing condition, although there are
but few that attend our meetings. There
is a united desire with the sisters who are
faithful, to aid in building up the Kingdom
of God. At a recent meeting the word
“Female” passed into disuse with us in con-
nection with the Society’s name, in the
proper manner. We have additions to our
Society quite frequently; and have an inter-
est in almost every enterprise in this ward.
We are very much pleased with your inter-
esting and valuable paper, which a good
portion of the sisters take at present; and
we wish you prosperity in the enterprise.
	Mrs. Jenett Cahoon, President;
	Mrs. Lucy Bullock } Counselors;
	Mrs. Eliza Greene }
	Mrs. Ann E. Labrum, Secretary.
	Mrs. Francis Litson, Treasurer.


INFLUENCE OF A SMILE.—There is noth-
ing which makes the human face so
attractive as a bright smile. It breaks over
the countenance like the sun-light through
the rain clouds after a shower, and it enlivens
all upon whom it rests. A countenance,
ever so stolid and impassable and hard,
often becomes softened, vivacious and
charming under the influence of a smile.
There is something indescribable about a
smile, and a great deal of character is often
exhibited in it. No man or woman with a
really bad heart ever possessed an open,smil-
ing face, which brought peace and gladness
with it. Beware of the man who never
smiles, for “the motions of his spirit are as
dull as night, and his affections are as dark
as Erebus.”
	The smile of tenderness and affection
from the mother’s face greets us upon our
entry on the journey of life, and the recol-
lections of it lingers sweetly in the heart
while reason lasts. The smile of encourage-
ment in distress or sickness, is often worth
more than money or medicines. In the
domestic circle it lightens the burden of
life, and makes the hardest lot cheerful and
endurable. It is the offspring of Hope, and
the pledge of amity between friends. A
broad smile was never inspired by a bitter
thought or an uncharitable desire. In the
face where smiles prevail, happiness reigns
and a gentle human charity dwells in the
bosom of such. A smile is the language of
kindness and forbearance, and it emanates
only from the soul in harmony with nature,
and at peace with all the world.


﻿Corn is cheaper than wood for fuel in
Iowa lime kilns.
	That was a beautiful idea in the mind of
a little girl, who, on beholding a rose-bush,
on the topmost stem of which a rose was
fading, whilst below and around it three
beautiful crimson buds were just unfolding
their charms, at once and earnestly ex-
claimed to her brother: “See William these
little buds have awakend in time to kiss
their mother before she dies.”


