SABBATH SCHOOL TEACHERS.
				—
	It is often remarked that the teacher in
the Sabbath School, can do as much to help
in sustaining the cause of Truth as can the
missionary to foreign climes, preaching the
Gospel. The same sentiment was expressed
by one of the Elders who made an address
at the late Sabbath School Concert, held in
the old Tabernacle in this city, and a new
meaning came with the words as they were
uttered there. Women, as well as men,
may be efficient teachers. How many
young ladies, belonging to the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, have felt
that if would be a joy and great gratifica-
tion to them if they could have the privilege
of proclaiming the glad tidings of Truth and
salvation to those who are afar off, held in
darkness and in ignorance! And some 
times has not the feeling arisen that the
greater power for obtaining a fulness of glory
had been bestowed upon man, while his
faithful helpmate was destined to follow in
the rear? Here we find all cause for envy
or jealousy in that respect obliterated.
Woman may teach, by word and by example,
the fullness of the Everlasting Gospel, as
plainly, as faithfully as man. What more
can be done for the gaining and maintaining
of the highest exaltation?
	But to truly teach a principle, it should be
practically understood by the teacher. Hence,
no pains should be spared by a Sabbath-
School teacher, by which acquaintance may
be formed with any branch of learning that
may be made beneficial to a pupil or a class.
It matters not how simple a truth may be, it
is worth impressing upon the mind of youth.
It is only by a grand compilation of divine
truths, each one small in itself, that great
wisdom is wrought; and no teacher of youth
should be above explaining the simplest
fact which might puzzle the young learner.
	There are greater responsibilities resting
upon teachers of Sabbath Schools than many
are aware. As their missions are no less
than those which the Elders are called to
perform in going forth to teach the nations
of the earth, and warn them to repent of
their sins, should their condemnation be less
if they allow themselves to be slack and
careless in performing their duties in the
Sabbath School, than that of the unfaithful
servant who is sent abroad? The Sabbath
School teacher should seek as constantly and
fervently, the spirit of faith and revelation
to direct his efforts, as should the mission-
ary upon the seas or in foreign lands.


