SPLINTERS.
					—
	The “Danbury News” wonders that “Epi-
zootic hats” have not yet appeared......Colo-
rado is going to send her ores to the Vienna
Exhibition......Senator Frelinghuysen, by
his course on the Utah bill, has managed to
make himself unpopular with the ladies
every where; a pleasing position for a gen-
tleman of refined taste(?)......A vicious colt,
in Kansas, bit a little girl the other day,
who died a few hours after......Japanese
children, between six and twelve years of
age, are to be compelled to attend school....
The bill emancipating slaves in Porto Rico
has passed the Spanish Assembly......It is
asserted that woman as a voter is an accom-
plished fact in England....The Woman
Suffragists of Michigan have asked the
Legislature to strike out the word “Male”
in the State Constitution wherever it re-
stricts the right of suffrage; and they believe
in the final success of their movement......
Hon. S. W. Hale, gallantly got out his own
team, after midnight, and carried home all
the lady passengers who came to Keene one
night, and he is now on the track for the
next Republican nomination for Governor.
......In Ireland every woman who pays any
sum as a poor-rate, has a vote in the election
of Poor Guardians......The women of Massa-
chusetts petition for a separate prison for
women; can there be women criminals
there, sufficient to justify such an act?.....
An exchange says the Beechers take to the
pulpit and to heresy as naturally as ducks
to water; Mrs. Isabella Beecher Hooker
contemplates devoting herself to the minis-
try......All habitual water drinkers were
recently ordered by a vigilance committee
to leave Pioche City......Caldwell is spoken
of as the “weak-eyed, red whiskered child
of corruption, from Kansas.”......It is twelve 
years since Madame Adeline Patti left this
country, and she contemplates returning.
......The will of Napoleon III is sworn at
under $600,000, left without reserve to the
Empress; the Prince Imperial having but
one bequest, the Imperial crown......The
coal famine in England has led to the dis-
covery that chalk can be used for fuel......It
is estimated that nine million wooden to-
bacco pipes are manufactured in this country
yearly, and it is presumable that there are
blockheads enough to use them up......The
same postmaster has acted at Grayson
Springs in Tennessee, for forty years......
Iowa boot-blacks resolve to charge by the
square foot for shining-up customers...... 
Rome’s reigning beauty for the moment, is
said to be an Austrian, Princess Furstem-
burg......A Troy paper asks, “Shall lunatics
be licensed as murderers?”......Not a single
member of General Grant’s Cabinet is now
a candidate for President......A Vermont
dog was heart-broken at the recent death of
a horse-belonging to its master......Mrs.
Mary Monoghan died recently in New York, 
aged 102 years......A little girl in New Jer- 
sey fell into a cistern the other day; and
although she was in the water fifteen 
minutes before being rescued, she was
revived and recovered after two hours ex-
ertions in her behalf......Mrs Stanton says
the aristocracy of sex is the worst in the
world......Little boys in Oregon prevent
their rocking horses from taking epizootic
by fastening bits of red flannel around their
necks......A daughter of Zachary Taylor,
late President of the United States, Mrs.
Wood has been in destitute circumstances,
but is now to receive a pension of $50 per 
month......A Kansas youth set fire to a
school-house, because his mother would not
allow him to go to the circus......A little
[new column]
western girl, who is very strictly kept by
her parents says she would like to be a
minister that she might “holler on Sun-
day.”......A number of students in the State
University of California lately made their
appearance in last spring straw-hats and
last year dusters......A man in the cars on
the first of April whispered to the conductor
that another man present had just recovered
from small-pox; there was a general scat-
tering, but it proved to be only an “April
Fool."......The 31st ult. was celebrated in
San Francisco by the Spiritualists as the
twenty-fifth anniversary of modern “Spirit-
ualism.”......California prides herself on
the reputation of her '49ers, and grieves
that some of her first missionaries are get-
ting into trouble......One contemporary, by
reading the editorials in another, has found
out that “pain and misery have driven
many a person to desperation.”......Virginia
school girls learn to swim.


