[Vol7 | August 1920 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: A Vacation and a Rag-bag, a story Clara S. Fagergren]

A Vacation and a Ragbag Clara S. Fagergren. Mrs. Jones leaned her tired body heavily against the kitchen door, and watched the children running down the garden path in their haste to get to school on time. When they were out of sight and their shouting and laughter could no longer be heard, she sank down wearily on the doorstep, wiping the beads of perspiration from her prematurely aged countenance and heaved an audible sight of relief, murmuring: "It seems too good to be true! They are really off to school for the last time! Tomorrow is the beginning of their vacation and I'll not be forced to hurry them off spick and span promptly on the strike of the clock!" What a relief in knowing that the hustle and bustle and A VACATION AND A RAGBAG 441 agonizing hurry of getting the children ready for school could be dispensed with for the rest of the summer! No more hurried ironing at the last moment of a needed dress or a blouse The horror of seeing hastily swallowed breakfasts and the frenzied throwing together of school luncheons would not have to be endured for a long interval. She would not have to listen to their bickering and disputes over who should be the first to use the wash basin and the comb, for three whole months! Could this really be true? Mrs. Jones closed her eyes from sheer exhaustion;  she was too tired to think coherently, and she allowed herself the luxury of complete relaxation of body and mind. Her rest was brief, however. Startled she opened her eyes on hearing the postman's whistle outside the gate. Rising stiffly to her feet she stalked slowly down the garden path, receiving stolidly the letter which the carrier tossed her. When holding it in her hand, however, she could not repress the feeling of curiosity and inward foreboding that an unopened letter always caused her to have. A letter was a rare event in Mrs. Jones' placid life;  it meant either a marriage or a death, and either happening incurred unnecessary expenses. A glance at the return address informed Mrs. Jones that the letter was sent by her sister-in-law who lived in the nearby city. Walking slowly back to the house she opened it, reading the brief, business-like note through two, three, times, before being able to comprehend its meaning. On reaching the doorstep she crumped down in a heap as it were;  a low moan escaped her parched lips and her eyes stared glassily at the letter which she read again for the fourth time, hoping against hope that it might prove to be a mere hallucination;  that her hazy mind might be deceiving her. Yet the contents of the letter was neither exiting nor calamitous;  only a brief message, which read: "Dear Jane:— We have decided to spend our vacation with you this summer. The boys need out-of-door exercise and country air after their long confinement in the schoolroom. The summer resorts are not to our liking, consequently, we have voted unanimously to make the most of your farm. We shall, of course, pay our share of the living expenses. We hope to be with you the very first day of vacation. Love to all, from your sister, "Anna Short." The unwelcome missive dropped unheeded to the ground and Mrs. Jones bowed her tired head into her gnarled hands and actually wept;  the tears trickling slowly through her 
 fingers and dropping on her checked gingham apron. Her sobs shook her lean body while rebellious and self-pitying thoughts crossed her mind. She might have known something would happen to interfere with her plans of getting a little rest! Instead of getting meals and doing washing and ironing for six, there would be — let's see — Anna and three boys, — ten people to wait on. Those city people were no hands to pitch in and help with the work! All they did was to lie in the shade and read novels all day long and, of course, attend their meals. If this plan of spending vacation on the farm uninvited wasn't just like the doings of a sister-in-law! But here she was wasting precious time! Extra people meant extra work. The spare bedrooms needed cleaning. She must do some baking, too. The early June day was getting unbearably warm;  she was forced into doing all this extra work in the heat on account of unbidden guests, but Jane Jones was not the woman on whom a city sister-in-law should pass criticism, she soliloquized bitterly. Rousing herself with an effort Mrs. Jones began the self-imposed work grimly and determinedly. Such sweeping and dusting. Such washing of windows and hanging of clean curtains. Such cake and pie baking, — thank goodness she didn't have to be saving with food. A lot of vegetables always spoiled in the garden and milk was fed to the pigs. Such scrubbing of floors and steps, — all these preparations were done mechanically and listlessly without one welcoming thought for the expected guests. "There only remains one more thing for me to do," thought Mrs. Jones, ruefully, late that evening, while frosting cakes in the solitude of the roomy and old-fashioned pantry, "and that is to make my will." After ninety days of this hard work I shall be a dead woman. She finally crept wearily off to bed only to be disturbed in her fitful sleep by phantasmagoria in which she saw herself enacting the role of the wandering Jew;  always on her feet;  never taking any rest, but for everlastingly working and fussing for other people. The Jones's family were up betimes the next morning, — the children curious and eager to make the acquaintance of their city cousins;  the mother, worried and nervous for fear of having left any work undone that might offend the sight of her sister-in-law. Everything seemed to be in readiness, however, the youngsters were uncomfortable in stiffly starched dresses and blouses, and Mrs. Jones herself was arrayed in her new pongee silk waist which made her sallow A VACATION AND A RAGBAG 443 cheeks look ever more colorless and sunken than when she wore her everyday gingham. Promptly at twenty minutes after ten, an automobile loaded to the guards with boxes and bundles of miscellaneous sizes, and in the center of which four smiling faces looked eagerly about, stopped at the front door. Then followed a hurried scrambling and unloading of luggage. Mrs. Jones tried to say some cordial words of welcome but she felt bashful and confused. A strong hand clasped hers, understandingly, however, and she found herself looking into a pair of comprehending brown eyes. Mrs. Short interrupted her dispirited effort at speechmaking, saying cheerfully and wholeheartedly: "I'm sure it's more than kind of you to take us in on such short notice. We'll try not to be too much trouble for you. The boys have promised faithfully to do their share of the work, in return for which they want the privilege of pitching camp in the old orchard. Don't be afraid to put me to work, either. I'm used to all kinds of work. I know I shall enjoy every minute of my stay on this beautiful place." Somehow or other Mrs. Jones felt considerably relieved after meeting the dreaded visitor. Frankly speaking, she felt at home with her. She made a feeble attempt at relieving the other woman of some of her numerous bundles, but her sister in-law kindly but firmly refused her offer. "Here, Ned," she called to one of her khaki-clad boys, "take mother's things into her room. The others may remove the camping outfit and provisions to the orchard. Get your stove ready and show your cousins your skill at cook bothering dinner. us women Keep because busy for we the wish rest to of have the a day little and time don't to ourselves in which to visit and talk over olden times." The youngsters gathered up the designated boxes and bundles of the orchard with alacrity, with much and shouting disappeared among the Mrs. and laughing. shrubbery Jones had a feeling that amounted to almost happiness at the thought of not having the crowd of noisy children around the house, hindering and annoying her. Mrs. Short after changing her dress and shoes, came into the ample kitchen which also served as the dining room, picked up a panful of green peas and entertained her hostess with newsy gossip of the city while shelling them. The country woman unconsciously unburdened her pent up mind of many little problems which until now had remained unuttered and kept silent for want of an appreciative listener. By the time the noon-dinner had been eaten and 
 Mr. Jones — a tall, lank farmer — had gone back to the fields, the two women were chatting and confiding one to the other on the most intimate terms. The children were left to their own devices. "They'll never stop eating till they've had enough," the visitor said knowingly, "My boys often prepare their own meals and enjoy the experiments exceedingly, I've cautioned them not to waste food, and to clean their dishes and put everything in order after they get through eating." To her surprise Mrs. Jones found that she had the afternoon free and to herself after her sister-in-law's co-operation with the dishes and a few preparations for a cold supper. "We seldom eat anything but bread and milk for supper," the visitor informed her. "If you can spare us the milk we'll be more than satisfied." Mrs. Jones thought of the gallons of good milk that was being fed to the pigs and hastened to assure Mrs. Short that the question of milk need not bother her. It was a long time since Mrs. Jones had time to lie down for an afternoon nap. On this day, however, she relaxed her tired body, exhausted after her strenuous exertions of the day before, and slept soundly and restfully for two whole hours. She awakened refreshed in mind and body and after plunging her face into cold water and combing her scanty hair into a nearly becoming style, slipped on a comfortable house dress, feeling invigorated and almost like a new woman. The city cousins insisted on sleeping in the dog tent which they had pitched under the spreading branches of a giant apple tree, at the far end of the orchard. Mrs. Short readily gave her consent to the proposition. Mrs. Jones was finally persuaded into giving in to her own boys' clamoring that they, too, be allowed to sleep out-of-doors. She had always been afraid of bugs and crawling things. The boys had until now slept up in the attic where it was stifling hot and musty, but where she felt they were protected. The boys went back into the orchard in high spirits, equipped with extra bedding and provisions for breakfast which they were to prepare and eat in regular camping style. Mr. Jones appeared at the breakfast table the next morning with a worried expression on his otherwise beaming countenance. His wife anxiously inquired if the hired man had asked for an increase of pay, or, worse still, served notice to quit. The farmer shook his grizzled head dolefully, and said between mouthfuls of ham and eggs: "No, Hiram is working and seems satisfied. The trouble is, I wish I could hire more help for the next two or three weeks. The sugar beets need thinning. It's next to im A VACATION AND A RAGBAG 445 possible to hire extra help at this busy time and unless those beets are attended to within a certain time the crop will be a failure." The city visitor became visibly interested. "Why don't you put our boys to work on those beets?" she inquired impulsively. "Thinning beets is good exercise. Furthermore, any kind of out-of-door work is healthful and gives these youngsters a good appetite. Don't worry over extra help when those boys are just aching to get rid of their surplus energy." Mr. Jones's clouded face brightened instantaneously. "Do you really think they would work in those beets?" he asked joyously. "I don't want to interfere with their vacation, but if they'll help me out I'll be only too glad to pay them the regular price for thinning beets." "I'll manage the boys," said Mrs. Short, confidently. "The work shall begin tomorrow in the beet field. I'll give a special prize to the boy who can accomplish the most work. There's nothing that stimulates a boy's mind as much as the promise of a new baseball." A week later, after the beet-thinning had been completed to the satisfaction of Mr. Jones and the great pride of the boys who had earned a neat sum of money, Mrs. Short came in from the garden carrying a big pailful of early string beans. "I never saw so many beans in my life!" she panted. "Why don't you can some for winter use?" Mrs. Jones, who was churning butter on the back porch, looked up wearily and straightened her bent back before replying: "When would I get time to can vegetables? It is more than I can manage to tend to the fruit. We use the vegetables while they're fresh and feed the rest to the pigs." Mrs. Short determinedly and swiftly picked over the beans while a plan was fermenting in her busy brain. "I'll get the boys to pick and clean those beans," she announced with finality. "They can do the work the first thing every morning as long as the beans last. Then all we need to do will be to sterilize the jars, fill them with beans, set them in the wash boiler and let them steam three hours while we do up the morning's work." The tired woman at the butter churn acquiesced readily to this plan. Not only string beans, but also early peas, tender beets, sweet corn, and an abundance of raspberry, blackberry, and apricot jam were canned during the morning hours of the following weeks. The shelves in Mrs. Jones's fruit cellar were crowded with jars of good things to eat;  they were a joy to behold and a source of great satisfaction to that good 
 woman who never missed a chance to show off the fine array of fruit and vegetables to visitors, the sight of which emboldened many of the women to go home and try, if possible, to outdo Mrs. Jones's fine display. By dividing the work and letting the children do their share of it, the two women found they could easily get through by noon. After the dinner dishes were cleared away and the youngsters had departed on some expedition, they would bring their sewing out on the shady front porch and spend the afternoon pleasantly chatting and working. One afternoon, Mrs. Jones's being engaged in the useful thought homely task of patching men's trousers, brought out a huge rag-bag, the contents of which she dripped on the floor while searching for a piece of material. Mrs. Short interestedly noticed the miscellaneous collection of new and old pieces of cloth, discarded dresses and coats, half worn trousers and frayed shirts. Picking up a woolen skirt of a style long since obsolete but of good material and color, she exclaimed: "There's enough good pieces in this rag-bag to make a new wardrobe for your children to start school this fall!" The other woman looked at the speaker and at the contents of the ]; ag-bag incredulously, seeing nothing in the jumbled heap but just rags, rags, rags. Mrs. Short saw and understood the look;  she proceeded undaunted: "This old fashioned skirt, after being ripped, cleaned and pressed, will make a nice school dress for your ten-year-old girl. There is enough good material in these discarded shirts to make numberless nice waists for the boys and a few aprons for the girls. These trousers," she went on enthusiastically, critically examining several seemingly useless pairs, "will make up very nicely into boys' pants;  they will be of a better grade of goods than what you pay a big price for in the stores now-days." Mrs. Jones stood aghast at the prospect before her. "I could never do it!" she ejaculated hopelessly. "I'm no hand at sewing new goods, let alone making over old clothes." "You have a good sewing machine that you are able to run," Mrs. Short interrupted cheerfully. "You can be my assistant. I've had lots of experience in that line. Between you and me, I couldn't keep my boys looking decent if it were not for my making over things." Said and done. The two sister-in-laws began their making-over operations that very afternoon. Moving the sewing machine out on the porch, and taking turns at sewing, ripping, cleaning, pressing, cutting, and basting, the A VACATION AND A RAGBAG 447 women worked swiftly and harmoniously, turning out with wonderful rapidity a great assortment of useful clothing. The summer days passed only too quickly, for Mrs. Jones, who felt she was not only doing something useful but also was saving money and energy by doing her work systematically and economically. She also gained in weight, her cheeks took on a healthier color;  she felt invigorated and happy from being out in the fresh air a good part of each day and would be ready with keen appetite for the meals, she, who had always complained of being a poor eater and used to barely peck at her food. Sometimes they would eat supper picnic style underneath the big trees in the orchard. Mr. Jones enjoyed these spreads;  he would stretch his tall frame luxuriantly on the green grass while munching leisurely the cool salads and delicious sandwiches that had been prepared for these little festivals in the open. "I declare," he was heard to say more than once, "I never had so many good things to eat before in my life! It's just like going to a party. I'd rather stay at home in the shade than go gallivanting along the hot and dusty roads to some holiday picnic." "Well, I never saw a summer pass so quickly!" commented Mrs. Jones one day looking over the pile of clothes which she and her guest had made. "I don't remember ever doing so much preserving and canning of vegetables, not to mention sewing. Of course, I know I couldn't have accomplished half of this work if it had not been for your suggestions and assistance," she turned gratefully to Mrs. Short who was rocking complacently in the big rocking chair while piecing odds and ends of cloth into quilting blocks. "Do you know, I actually dreaded your coming," she went on apologetically. "Now I wish with all my heart that you could prolong your stay a few more weeks." The other woman looked up smilingly and appreciatively. "I know the kind of company you expected," she said understandingly. "I have had a little experience myself in that line. The kind of people who come all dressed up to the table for meals, expecting to be waited upon and who spend their leisure hours doing a little fancy work have a very small place in my affections. For my part, I can truly say, I've enjoyed every minute of my stay with you. The children are husky and tanned from their living out in the fresh air;  they are well fit to begin their school work again. I go home with a feeling of satisfaction of not having been a burden to you." Mrs. Jones spoke with deep feeling and real gratitude;  
 "I have learned many lessons and profited in various ways by your visit. When making plans for your next summer's vacation remember you are welcomed back with open arms to the old farm."