[WomansExponent | Vol4 | 1875 | November | Issue: 12 | Title: WOMAN'S RECORD. | Author: Unknown]

WOMAN'S RECORD.

	THE FIRST female graduate of the Min-
nesota State University, is Miss Helen M.
Ely:
	ELIZABETH STUART Phelps has been
commended by the London Athenium as a 
poet.
	DR. ANNA Monroe, of Boston, is connect-
ed with the Lasell Seminary at Auburndale,
as lecturer on Physiology and Hygiene and
is also Supervisor of Health Matters.
	MRS. E. S. Tupper, the celebrated bee-
woman, who wrote the most famous book
upon the subject of bees, has 20,000 lbs of
honey to dispose of this year, the product
of her own bees.

[Column 2]
	FIVE YOUNG American ladies have lately
received "honor certificates," equivalent to
the degree "Associate in Arts," from two
of the examiners of the Oxford University,
England.
	THE STORY of Tilda in Scribner's Monthly
for September, written by Kate B. Foot,
has been spoken of by leading Journals and
papers as deserving the encomium it every
where receives.
	MRS. CORNELIA Loring of Boston, who
died recently, left $5,000 to the New Eng-
land Hospital for women and children, and
$2,000 to the Boston Aid Society.
	MISS FLORENCE Marryatt, otherwise Mrs.
Ross Church, editor of London Society, has
a daughter who is about to make her debut
upon the stage. The young lady's name is
Eva.
	MISS SUSAN Augusta Fenimore Cooper
daughter of the novelist of that name, has
opened an Orphanage near Cooperstown,
New York, and is devoting herself to the
home care and educational training of little,
homeless children of both sexes.
	MISS YOUNG the English High Church
noted novelist, whose writings have been
very highly approved and sought after, is
about to give a paper on "Woman's Work
in the Church," at Stoke on Trent, before
a Church Congress.
	MME. CHRISTINE Nilsson made a visit of
a few weeks to Lady Emily Peel, by invita-
tion, at the Villa Lammermoor, Geneva,
before she returned to England to com-
mence her provincial concert tour.
	MRS. HARRIET Lewis, it is said, receives
a regular salary from Mr. Bonner of the 
New York "Ledger," of $10,000 a year.
Her husband, Leon Lewis, gets the same
amount. Writers of fiction are in better
demand than writers of facts.
	THE PRINCESS Mercedes, the probable,
successor and heir to the throne of King
Alphonso, is said to be an artless, innocent
child, totally unconscious of the honors that
await her. She is fond of croquet and
seems to concentrate her mind more on the 
interest of the game than on the future
probability of mounting a throne.
	MISS ANNA Maria Schuman, was one of
that class of females who, in this age, are
designated strong-minded. She lived in
the Seventeenth century and was known as
the "Tenth Muse." It is said of her that
she would write equally well in ancient or
modern tongues. She was a scholar, a
writer, a linguist and an artist; could use
the brush, the chisel and the engraver's 
knife. She made the Hebrew language a
speciality. She was one of the practical
examples of the higher [---]ation of woman,
and her memory should survive forever as
an illustrious example of woman's educa-
tional success.


IMPUDENT QUESTIONS.—To ask an un-
married lady how old she is. To ask a law-
yer if he ever told a lie. To ask a doctor
how many persons he has killed. To ask a
minister whether he ever did anything very
wrong. To ask a merchant if he ever cheat-
ed a customer. To ask a young lady wheth-
er she would like a beau. To ask an editor
the name of any of his correspondents.


MANY favors which God gives us ravel
out for want of hemming; for though
prayer purchases blessings, giving praise
doth keep the quiet possession of them.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		L. GREENE RICHARDS, Editor.
	CORNELIA H. HORNE, Business Manager

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 5 p.m. on Tuesdays and Saturdays.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
						Salt Lake City, Utah.

