[Vol53 | June 1966 | Page 414 | General Feature | Woman's Sphere Ramona | W. Cannon]
413 . - —_ % Prime Minister Indira Ghandi of India in March became the first woman head of a country to visit the President of the United States. The Ambassador to India, Chester Bowles, was the first representative of a foreign power to call on the new Prime Minister, and on that occasion extended to Mrs. Ghandi an invitation from President Johnson to visit him in Washington. The President is arranging for the United States, in cooperation with other nations, to send about twelve million tons of food to India to help feed her starving millions. The payment will be in Indian money (rupees), which will purchase products from India. Crown Princess Beatrix of Holland, twenty-eight years old, on March 10th married Claus von Amsberg, thirty-nine years old, a former German diplomat. They hope to stem the tide of disapproval among some Dutch people, because of his nationality, by serving Holland loyally and wisely. Peggy Fleming, a seventeen-year-old high school student from Colorado Springs, U. S. A., with her ''flawless'' skating won the woman's world _ iceskating championship in Davos, Switzerland, on February 27. Frances Carter Yost, prolific writer for The Relief Society Magazine and other Church and non-Church publications, has just published a new book "That They Might Know Thee"' (Deseret Book Company).
Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Hisako Nakahara was crowned Japan's Cherry Blossom Queen in Tokyo in la March. Her crown contains 976 pea set in 800 grams of gold. She went Washington, D. C., U. S. A., to attend t Cherry Blossom Festival, beginning o April 12. The Japanese presented t cherry trees to the United Sta Government in 1912. At the height o their spring blossoming, they prese a sight never to be forgotten. Dianna Lynn Batts, a recent convert tc the Church, from Falls Chure Virginia, is the present Miss USA ar placed second in the Miss World co test in London last fall. In an addr to 4,000 seminary students in the Sa Lake Tabernacle, Miss Batts urged t students to remain loyal to Chur standards at all times. She was member of Bob Hope's troupe in I three grueling weeks in Viet Nam tc entertain service men at Christmé time. Frances G. Knight is the United States Passport office director, and inthat position must be informed on the loyalty of Americans traveling abroad. Madeleine Helfrey, director of research and programming at the Utah State Training School for the mentally retarded, was appointed in March to President Johnson's Advisory Board on Mental Retardation, one of eight persons throughout the United State to serve on this board.
