[Vol53 | June 1966 | Page 408 | Special Feature | James A. CuUimore Appointed Assistant to the Council of the Twelve | ]
[James A. CuUimore Appointed Assistant to the Council of the Twelve]

407 w At the opening session of the 136th Annual General Conference of the Church, April 6, 1966, James Alfred Cullimore, a devoted and experienced Church leader, was er, was appointed as an Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, making a present total of twelve Assistants to the Council. Elder Cullimore was bom in Pleasant Grove, Utah, January 17, 1906, and was graduated from Pleasant Grove High School. At Brigham Young University, he was president of the senior class, and president of the student body. In these positions his outstanding qualities of leadership and his remarkable executive ability were evident. He received his Master's degree from the New York University School of Retailing. He was married in the Salt Lake Temple, June 3, 1931, to Grace Gardner of Spanish Fork. They have two daughters, Luella and Nancy, and a son Kelvyn. Church service began at an early age for Elder Cullimore and has continued throughout his life. During his mission in California (1925-27), he was made a district president. He was Timpanogos Stake Sunday School superintendent, branch president 408 Elder James Alfred Cullim in Sioux City, Iowa, and in th Oklahoma City Branch. Later, h became district president in th West Oklahoma District, Centr, States Mission, a position he hel for nine years. In 1960 he w sustained as the first presiden of Oklahoma Stake. Shortly afte this appointment, he was called to be president of the Central British Mission, where he served for two and a half years. During his presidency, many outstanding accomplishments were made, including the completion of the building of the Merthyr-Tydfil meetinghouse in time for its dedication by President David O. McKay, whose mother and her ancestors had lived in that area of Wales. Also, during his presidency, the distribution of The Book of Mormon increased from fifty to 300 a week, converts increased, and the gospel was made known to thousands by a vigorous and well-directed program which was carried to many new Elder Cullimore and His Family ' Standing at the back: Elder Cullimore; seated at the left: Grace ' Gardner Cullimore; at the right: Nancy Marie Cullimore; inset at left: Kelvin Henry Cullimore; at right: Grace Luella Cullimore Payne (Mrs. Cities and villages where Church organizations had not previously functioned. His great ability in leadership and management has served him well in business. He has been associated with Gimble Brothers of New York City and also Mandel Brothers in Chicago. In Oklahoma, during the past twenty years, he has established one of the largest furniture firms in the state, and, in 1960, he was given the Fourth Annual Alumni Achievement Award by the New York University School of Retailing Alumni Association. Elder Cullimore's outgoing and optimistic personality invites conDale Payne). Fidence and respect, and his influence among his associates in Church and community activities is uplifting and inspirational. The General Board of Relief Society and the Relief. Society members in the stakes and missions of the Church are pleased and gratified that Elder Cullimore has been made a General Authority, and they welcome his gracious and accomplished wife. In his address as a new General Authority, Elder Cullimore expressed humility in his calling and said "... Only by virtue of the strength I receive from the Lord can I become a good servant."
