[Vol53 | June 1966 | Page 406 | Special Feature | Relief Society Magazine in Spanish Marion | G. Romney]
405 Spanish Elder Marion G.
Romney of the Council of the Twelve 406 Min 1842, when the Reli Society was organized by the Prophet Joseph Smith, its objective was to "relieve the poor and to save souls." In other words, the women of the Church were to assume their share of the responsibility of carrying forward the work of the Lord. This, of course, was to be done under the direction of the Priesthood. With faith, courage, vision, and industry, the women of the Church have carried forward t objectives of the Relief Society to the present time. In the beginning, the messag of guidance given to the Reli Society by the Prophet Jose Smith, were carried by word 0 mouth to the sisters of the o ganization. Then, as the wo spread to outlying areas, es cially after the move to U and the western regions, the i structions and suggestions we made known by use of letters bulletins. The Relief Society was serv through the pages of the Wom an's Exponent from 1872, when i began publication under the direction of President Brigham Young, until it was discontinued inFebruary 1914.
in 1915, the Relief Society, with the approval of th First Presidency, began publishing its own Relief Society Magazine, "A monthly periodical— edited, managed, and published by the General Board of The Relief Society." You will note that it was from 1842 to 1915—a period of seventy-three years—before a Relief Society Magazine was mad available to the sisters through- out the English-speaking countries. Today, the Spanish-speaking Relief Society members constitute the greatest number next to the English-speaking members. As you know, the leaders of the missions have had access to the Magazine for many years, and have sent to Relief Society members, in bulletin form, many of the articles and suggestions, as well as the lessons. Now, at length, the Spanish-speaking sisters have the privilege of having the Magazine printed in the Spanish language, especially that they may use it in doing their part in "caring for the poor and in saving souls." In addition to the lessons and the helps found in the Magazine, there are "many literary, artistic, and practical articles, designed to improve our minds and beautify our homes," as stated in a letter announcing the first publi- 'cation of the Magazine.
Personally, I am very grateful that, after these many years, the Spanish-speaking sisters may now LIFT THE HEART TO GLADNESS Catherine B. Bowles RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE IN SPANISH have access to the same material and inspiration as do the sisters near the headquarters of the Church. They need it. Their families need it. Much emphasis is — being placed, on the home, home teaching of the gospel and the responsibilities of the parents in bringing up their children in righteousness. In the Relief Society Magazine will be found many articles, stories, and suggestions that will have enrichment value, not only for Relief Society members and the Relief Society program, but that will interest and _ inspire their families. We hope that the Spanish sisters will make every possible effort to get this Magazine into every home in their branches, and that each will read and use it. We think that enlightenment and increased faith will result, and that ways and means will be made clear to the sisters of the Relief Society whereby they can participate in "caring for the poor and saving souls."
