[Vol53 | June 1966 | Page 437 | The Home | Festival of the Dolls | ]
festival of the dolls South Cottonwood Stake (Utah) Eighth Ward Bazaar @ The "Raggedy Ann Tree" at the left is a peach tree bough sprayed with blue paint and ornamented with colorfully dressed dolls—boy dolls and girl dolls—clown dolls and storybook dolls. Fancy blue dolls hold court at the base of the tree, and others decorate the red "schoolhouses" represented at the left and right in the 'tree picture. A close-up of one of the schoolhouses is illustrated in the righthand picture. Such bright eyes the dolls have, such plentiful hair, such elegant clothes. One hundred twenty "Raggedy Ann"' dolls were made for the bazaar, as well as sixty sets of "Ann and Andy." Twice as many dolls could have been sold. Luella W. Finlinson is president of South Cottonwood Stake Relief Society and Myrna J. Giles is president of the Eighth Ward Relief Society. Counselors in the ward are Dorothy B. Neiswender and Lucille B. Cannon, with Jeanne H. Rydalch as work director. 437 antique VOUT plastic flowers Dorothy J. Roberts Transparencies by the author Decorative Designs from the home of Alberta H. Christensen @ "Voices of silence' — have you not admired them, too in the baroque plastic flower arrangements of the day, muted in tone, gilded and antiqued? Shades of the seventeenth century Flemish masters, and their famous pictures of floral art, are simulated in the oldworld feeling of these modern bouquets. For many of us who did not know of the special process for thus transforming the commonest, even soiled, plastic flowers and foliage, (cloth flowers cannot be used in this process), it is a joy to learn just how simple it can be. With little effort and small expense, plus the joy of creating beauty, these rich-looking home accessories can be possible for all of us by merely dipping each flower in the following manner. In a wide-mouthed can or jar or bottle, combine: 1 cup paint thinner or turpentine 1 cup clear varnish 1 tablespoon dark oak stain 1 tablespoon powdered gold (Venus, medium) Into this solution dip each flower, after bending back an inch or so on the stem end to form a small hook. Stir the mixture between each flower-dipping. Hang each flower upside-down on a line to dripdry till morning. Place papers under the line to catch the drippings. By the next day, colors will be muted by the stain and varnish, and leaves and petals veined and tipped with gold.