Preserve The Child's Family Life In Wartime Hazel M. Peterson Assistant Professor of Social Work, University of Utah
AN excellent recommendation, which has come to us from the United States Children's Bureau, on this problem is to establish a family counseling service in every community where there are large industrial plants. The particular form this service should take in any community should be determined after careful study of the best means of making it available to parents. It may be set up as a part of the local child care agency or, lacking this, in the office of the county department of public welfare. All mothers who are planning to enter employment should be encouraged to use this service in order to help them think through their plans so that the best welfare of the entire family may be served. Many mothers who have no desire to work, but feel pressed to do so, may be helped to remain at home. Others who cannot arrive at this decision can be assisted to make such plans that will insure adequate care for the children; and beyond this, will make it possible for mothers to have some association with their families every day. To place children for twenty-four hour a day care is to deprive them of the love and affection of their parents, which is rightfully theirs. There are certain intangible qualities in the child's own home for which there are no substitutes. His family ties should only be broken after an exhaustive study indicates that to maintain them will prove too destructive to him. As noted above, he is entitled to live with his own family; it is his right and natural setting. If war is being waged to preserve democratic civilization, then to undermine and destroy family life which is basic to this civilization, in order to produce the weapons of war, is to destroy the very goals for which we are fighting. At such a cost should mothers leave their children, particularly mothers of small children, to become wage earners? It is true that many mothers do not seek employment unless there is a pressing economic need. It is equally true that many do so because they feel a deep need to serve their country. Others are lured by the high prevailing wages in industry which will provide the luxuries the reduced family budget, during the depression years, could not allow. Still others are lured by the prospect of a career in a hitherto closed field. It would neither be democratic nor wise to set up barriers to prohibit any mother from exercising her right to work in Government war work. If she is banned from working there, she will seek the lesser paid positions of clerks, waitresses, taxi drivers, as the persons in these positions leave for better paid jobs in plants making war materials. Mothers themselves must, in the last analysis, determine whether they will enter employment and leave their children to the care of others, or whether they will remain at home and care for them. Whatever a mother chooses to do, every community has a responsibility to see that the welfare of all children is safeguarded.
IF the mother is the sole support of her family and would prefer to care for her children than to seek employment, community resources should be available to provide her family with adequate assistance of every type. To assist a family of children to develop into fine adult citizens of integrity is a full-time job and worthy of an adequate income to any mother who is employed in this undertaking. Full provisions should be made by the Federal Government to see that the economic needs as well as adequate medical care are provided for wives and children of fighting men and men injured and killed in war service. For mothers of children whose fathers are dead or have deserted or who are incapacitated, adequate assistance should be available from state and local departments of public welfare. A mother cannot be expected to remain at home to care for her children if the assistance granted is so meagre that it does not provide the basic essentials of living, when she can earn an adequate living in war production and at the same time 377 satisfy her desire to be of service to her country. Mothers who seek employment because of a patriotic motive must be helped to realize that one of the best services they can render to the nation is to provide for their children the security of a happy home life which is so essential to integrated personality development. Moreover, knowing that their children are safe at home will contribute to the morale of the absent fathers, thus enabling them to do a better job, whether they are on the battle field or in the factory. Whatever the motive that prompts a mother to work, her first duty is to her home and children. As President Roosevelt has said, "All Americans want this country to be a place where children can live in safety and grow in understanding of the part that they are going to play in the future of our American nation. "If anywhere in the country any child lacks opportunity for home life, for health protection, for education, for morale or spiritual development, the strength of the nation and its ability to cherish and advance the principles of democracy are thereby weakened." 
 Lundberg, Emma O., "A Community Program of Day Care for Children of Mothers Employed in Defense Areas." U. S. Children's Bureau Bulletin, 1942.
 Quoted by Katharine Lenroot: "A Message From the Chief of the Children's Bureau." The Child, .
"A person is what he is largely because of the influences spread around him by his parents and others in the plastic first years. It is well to know how vitally determinative is the handling of the baby's mind, including its emotional content, during the early months of his life when he is helpless." from Mothercraft.