In Retrospect CHAPTER VI RELIEF SOCIETY EDUCATIONAL WORK President Amy Brown Lyman
MY seventeen-year service in secretarial work on the General Board of Relief Society two years as assistant secretary (1911-1913) and fifteen years as general secretary (1913-1928) proved to be a rare and many-sided opportunity for me, and one of the pleasantest experiences of my life. Ten years I served under the presidency of Emmeline B. Wells (1911-1921), already referred to in the preceding chapter, and seven years under that of Clarissa S. Williams (1921-1928). I traveled with these two leaders extensively, carried on official correspondence for them, attended to their many personal and official engagements, and, under their direction, to the numerous details connected with the office and with the Society in general. The daily, intimate, personal contact with them was a constant joy and inspiration. They were pleasant and congenial, and very appreciative of every effort made in their behalf and in behalf of the organization. The close association I had with their devoted counselors and with the splendid and able women who made up the Board was also a source of pleasure and satisfaction. Another privilege a general secretary has, and which helps to compensate for long hours of work in connection with business details, correspondence, reports, figures, statistics, and other routine work, is the broad contact such a position affords Page 382 with the faithful Relief Society stake presidents and their aids, and with officials and workers of other organizations and agencies working in the same field. An outstanding feature of Relief Society work from the beginning has been the comradeship and love that exists among the members of the organization. Clarissa Smith Williams, the sixth general president, had a unique and unusual background in Relief Society work, which was a great asset to her and to the organization. She had served nine years as general treasurer and eleven years as first counselor in the general presidency; and before becoming a member of the General Board she had, since her girlhood days, held practically every Relief Society office in the ward and in the stake. Born, brought up, and educated in Salt Lake City, she was the first native Utahn and westerner to hold the position of general president, the other presidents all being converts to the Church and easterners by birth. She was the daughter of George A. Smith, who was a cousin of the Prophet, Church Historian, counselor to President Brigham Young, and one of the original Pioneers of Utah. Her mother was Susan West Smith. From her famous father she inherited her good judgment and wisdom, her progressive spirit and broad sympathies, as well as many other fine qualities of leadership. Her practicability and IN RETROSPECT thrift she inherited from her modest, industrious mother. Sister Williams was intelligent, well read, and had traveled extensively. She was a large, fine-looking, dignified, motherly woman cultured, kindly, gentle, and lovable. Outstanding traits of all of the Smiths are their great sympathy and their tenderness of heart. Many people have experienced the love and kindness of her brother, President John Henry Smith, and her cousin, President Joseph F. Smith, who were both great-hearted men and as tender and affectionate as women, as are also many of their descendants. These qualities were a part of her makeup. She was beloved by her Board, with whom she loved to share her honors, and by every member of the office staff, especially because of her appreciation of their gifts and qualifications and because of her consideration for them and their work. She was generous and fair, and the soul of honor in dealing with all of her co-workers. As a public speaker she was interesting and convincing. She was also entertaining and dramatic. Probably her greatest contribution to Relief Society work was her knowledge of its every detail. She was familiar with all the problems she knew the questions and many of the answers. She was a thorough business woman and an able executive. It was largely through her efforts that the business affairs of the organization were put on a sound foundation. She was forward looking and progressive, which helped materially in the advancement of the work. It was her desire that all that the organization 383 had gained and developed be preserved, but that it should grow and progress and be able to meet effectively the new problems and situations in the changing world of the day. She felt that the Relief Society women should look to the future as well as to the past. She constantly advocated more complete plans and better methods in family welfare work, and was quick to recognize any improved method of helping people out of trouble. She was deeply interested in maternity and child-welfare work, and it was largely through her efforts that the interest on the wheat fund was set aside for this purpose. She was also responsible for the establishment of memorials in honor of past presidents. Sister Williams was the mother of eleven children eight daughters and three sons. Their family life was ideal. Theirs was a hospitable and beautiful home, and Sister Williams was an ideal hostess.
DURING my years as secretary, I had the opportunity also of taking part in the many interesting developments and expansions of the work which were undertaken by the Board, some of which will be mentioned in this and the succeeding chapter. With new and adequate headquarters and increased revenue (the membership dues having been raised in 1913 from ten cents to twenty-five cents), the General Board was now better able to strengthen the splendid work already established in the fields of education and welfare and to branch out into new allied fields; and with modern office equipment and additional clerical and other help, it was able 
REPRODUCTION OF BRONZE MEDAL Presented to Relief Society in 1915 by officials of Pan-Pacific Exposition, San Francisco, California
to extend and enlarge its service to the stakes and wards. In 1912, a temple and burial clothes department was established. The Woman's Cooperative Mercantile Institution which had been located, respectively, in the Constitution Building across from Z. C. M. I. (1887), at 123 East First South Street (1890), and at 47 South West Temple Street (1912), had carried a limited supply of such clothing for sale locally, but was desirous of discontinuing the service and appealed to the General Board to take it over. The important project of supplying temple and burial clothing was developed under the able direction of Counselor Julina L. Smith, and it has proved to be a blessing to the people of the whole Church. In 1913, a Relief Society Home was established for the temporary lodging of women and girls seeking work in the city, in connection with which there was an employment bureau. After seven years, and when the Beehive Home for Girls was opened (1920) by the Y. W. M. I. A., the Relief Society Home, which had met a temporary need, closed its doors. During this same year the Relief Society was benefited by the action of the First Presidency in appointing a correlation committee whose duty it was to correlate the work of the various auxiliary organizations, to regulate study programs, eliminate duplication, and arrange for stake conventions for the five auxiliary organizations. In 1914, a Relief Society choir was organized for the purpose of furnishing music for Relief Society general conferences. The same year (1914) a uniform course of study was adopted, and weekly meetings instituted throughout the organization. The new study course superseded the commendable miscellaneous educational outlines and lectures which each stake had provided for its own use. It was prepared by the General Board and published the IN RETROSPECT first year in a monthly bulletin which was sent out free of charge. In the interest of further uniformity and with the view of increasing the value of the organization to its members, weekly meetings were recommended, and the educational work was arranged and prepared for four meetings a month covering a ten-month period, the two summer months being left open except for a monthly work-and-business meeting. Previous to this, it had been customary in some localities to hold semimonthly meetings only. The next year (1915), Tuesday was designated as Relief Society meeting day, and ward and branch organizations were advised to meet regularly on this day. The most important subject in the new course of study was genealogy, with testimony following this lesson. In connection with this study, special conventions and institutes were held, and temple excursions featured. The enthusiasm and interest created among Relief Society women spread rapidly, and the interest of the whole Church membership was greatly stimulated in this important work which the Society had so successfully promoted and which was featured in the organization for six years until 1920 when the Genealogical Society assumed full responsibility for the teaching of genealogy and the supervision of temple excursions. Mrs. Susa Young Gates, who was a member of the Woman's Committee of the Genealogical Society and a member of the General Board, was the prime mover in this splendid piece of cooperative work, and she later (1918), in connection with the work, prepared for publication Surname Book and Racial History, which was published by the Board and widely distributed. In the summer of 1915, the genealogical department of Relief Society assisted the Genealogical Society of Utah in conducting an excursion to the International Genealogical Congress held in connection with the Pan Pacific Exposition at San Francisco. A special train carried 265 Latter-day Saint delegates. The First Presidency of the Church and other Church authorities and genealogical workers were a part of the delegation, taking a train just ahead of the party. The Relief Society delegation was headed by President Emmeline B. Wells, then in her eighty-ninth year. The Utah genealogists on Utah Genealogical day created a great deal of interest when they gave a demonstration of class instruction in genealogy. "Pioneer Reminiscences," an address by President Joseph F. Smith, was the outstanding feature of this program. At the close of the convention, the Utah Genealogical Society and the Relief Society were both presented with bronze medals by the Fair officials. Further interest in genealogy and temple work culminated in a penny temple fund of $12,072.33 which was presented to the Church in 1916 by the Relief Society women, who had raised this fund as a gesture in the interest of temple building. A memorial temple grant was later established, the interest of which is used annually for temple work for women. Other interesting divisions of this first course of study were: Home Ethics and Gardening; Literature, Art, and Architecture; and Handwork. The course in Gardening, 
EIGHT REASONS Why You Should Have This Magazine in Your Home:
1. It is the OFFICIAL ORGAN OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
2. Its pages will be graced with the writings of our beloved President, Emmeline B. Wells.
3. It will have CURRENT EVENTS treated by a brilliant editorial writer.
4. In