Notes from the Field. MRS. JANETTE A. HYDE IN RETROSPECT training, the object being to improve class teaching: in the organizations by giving every person who was called to be a teacher an opportunity to understand and apply the fundamental principles of teaching. Teaching helps have continued through the years, and have greatly enhanced the courses of study. Opportunity for stimulating and strengthening the work was provided when it was urged that regular monthly stake board and union meetings be held. Department meetings held simultaneously at the general Relief Society conferences in later years have accelerated interest in good class teaching. These department meetings were recommended by Counselor Jennie B. Knight as early as 1928, and credit is due her for the introduction of this innovation at these conferences. The uniform lesson work has continued for twenty-eight years. At the outset it was understood that the educational work was to be permeated with the spirit of the Gospel, and this has continued to be one of the aims in all the work which has followed. The educational work has maintained four departments Theology and Testimony, Handwork, Literature, and a department which has included a study of Home Economics, Social Science and related subjects, the latter including many phases of human relationships and welfare activities with special reference to home and family life. The educational work has been a great boon to the-members of the organization, giving them almost unlimited opportunity for intellectual and spiritual development. In the fall of 1913, when it was decided to prepate and send out to 387 the stakes a uniform course of study, free of charge, the question arose as to how to finance the project, as there were no funds available in the treasury. 'The proposed plan was to use a prospectus in the form of a guide containing the announcement and a set of bare outlines, to be followed by a monthly bulletin of sixteen pages in which the lessons would be developed. Each issue was to consist of 12,000 copies to be distributed through the stake boards. It was estimated that the cost would be approximately $175 per issue. Susa Y. Gates was designated as editor, to procure, arrange, and edit the lesson outlines and a few additional features, and Jeannette A. Hyde and I were appointed as business managers to raise the necessary funds to publish and mail the periodical. We decided that the best means of financing the publication would be to obtain advertisements to be placed in it. We therefore set out to carry out this plan. We were very inexperienced, and when some of the business houses which we approached doubted that the project could succeed, we began to wonder about it ourselves. We persisted in our efforts, nevertheless, and were rewarded with success. It was necessary, however, for all the work in connection with this periodical to be done without expense; and with the help of our children we wrapped and mailed the Bulletin each month during the year. While the stakes had prepared their own educational work in a splendid and satisfactory manner and had succeeded well, they welcomed the new plan and hoped that in some way arrangements could be made for it to become permanent. HE Woman's Exponent, owned and published by Emmeline B. Wells, which had generously served as a medium for the Relief Society for forty-two years, ceased publication early in 1914, and the Bulletin, which had been temporary, was expanded in 1915 and became The a publication Board and stake presidents, the matter was thoroughly discussed. The stake presidents, as well as the General Board, were very anxious that the price remain at $1, and with their usual loyalty. And resourcefulness they helped to work out a new arrangement whereby subscription agents' fees of ten percent would be WATKIN'S GLEN NEAR CORNELL CAMPUS Left to right: Amy Brown Lyman, Emma A. Empey, Edith Smith (Patrick), Emily Smith (Walker), Jeannette A. Hyde at that time of forty-four pages, the first number of which appeared . Definite space was devoted to lesson work. Just as the Magazine was well on its way to independence, the increased price of paper and other materials, due to World War I and the depression which followed, caused a deficit, and it seemed imperative that the subscription price would have to be advanced, a step which had been taken by most magazines throughout the country. At a conference meeting of the General eliminated and their work taken over by stake and ward presidents. The tentative plan also contemplated a concerted effort to increase: the subscriptions to a number equaling three-fourths of the Relief Society membership. 'Through the sustained help of stake and ward presidents and other volunteer workers, and through careful economy in the office, the subscription price of the Magazine has continued at the original figure of $1, although the Magazine has since been increased to seventy-six pages per issue, and although IN RETROSPECT we now face increasing costs incident to the present world war. Since for twenty-eight years I have been associated with the business department of the Magazine, and for 'parts of two years have served as cditor, I have loved and been interested in the publication; it is as a dearly-beloved child to me. In 1914 and 1915, the General Board recommended that the wives of mission presidents throughout the Church be officially appointed and set apart as Relief Society mission presidents, to supervise the work already organized in the missions, to effect new branch organizations, and to insure closer cooperation between the missions and the General Board. Dr. Romania B. Penrose, a member of the Board who had recently returned from a four-year mission in Europe where her husband, President Charles W. Penrose, had presided over the European Mission, urged this action. She felt that placing this responsibility definitely on these sisters would insure increased growth in the work. While in a few of the missions this step had already been taken, it was not the universal practice, and in most of the missions the wife of the president limited her Relief Society activity to the branch in which the headquarters were located. It was soon found that with these appointments the work began to grow and increase in the missions, and regular and complete reports were available to the Board. In 1915 a circular of instructions in pamphlet form was issued by the General Board, which included a brief history of the organization and instructions for officers and other workers. One thousand copies of 389 the circular were distributed, and it was included in the issue of the Magazine. Uniform ward record books and visiting teachers' books were introduced in the Society in , which helped materially to standardize not only record keeping but the work itself, and to make definite and uniform reports possible. Two years later (in 1918), uniform stake record books were adopted. Jn 1919, a Relief Society Song Book was published, with suitable songs for Relief - Society meetings and with the music transposed to suit the voices of mature and elderly women. IN the spring of 1916, the Relief Society was invited to send delegates to a convention of the American Home Economics Association to be held in June at Cornell University, Ithaca, New York. This invitation came about because of the excellent cooperative work being carried on between the Relief Society and a number of western agricultural colleges, particularly their extension divisions which were promoting home economics education. Just as the Relief Society had become known in national peace, temperance, and suffrage circles, it was now known among those groups fostering adult education in specific fields, such as genealogy, home economics, and later in family welfare education. It was very interesting for this home economics group, which was struggling to get its work before the public, to learn that in 1191 branches of the Mormon Relief Society there were extension classes in home economics held monthly. When I was appointed one of the 390 three delegates to this convention I was particularly pleased, for going back to Cornell University and Ithaca, where I had spent several very interesting years and where I had many acquaintances and friends, was almost like going home. The other delegates were Jeannette A. Hyde and Emma A. Empey. In connection with the convention, we were appointed to visit branches of the Relief Society in the Eastern, Northern, Central, and Western. States Missions. When President Joseph F. Smith heard of our proposed trip, of which he heartily approved, he said he would like to have two of his daughters accompany the party, and he asked me if I would be willing to chaperone them. He was especially anxious for them to visit those places connected with early Church history. We were, of course, more than delighted to be accompanied by these two charming young girls, the Misses Emily and Edith Smith. The convention covered many subjects, including foods, clothing, housing and sanitation, health and hygiene, and the promotion of extension classes. The Utah delegates took an active part in the roundtable discussions. While in Ithaca, we were house guests for the entire five days of Dr. Ernest W.. Schoeder, professor in charge of the famous hydraulic llibrary of Cornell University. His automobile was at our disposal any time we were left free from our many engagements. We were also entertained at dinner at the home of Professor and Mrs. C. L. Crandall. Doctor Schoeder is a close personal friend of Dr. Richard R. Lyman. They worked side by side for several years in the graduate school of Cornell University, and Doctor Crandall, professor of railroad engineering at Cornell University, had been one of Doctor Lyman's teachers. Leaving Ithaca, our party went ditectly to New York City, where we held our first Relief Society conference. Other conferences followed at Brooklyn, Baltimore, Philadel-. Phia, Washington, D. C., Boston, Lynn, New Haven, and Toronto, Canada; and on the return trip at Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Louis, Independence, and Denver. At South Royalton [Sharon, Windsor County], Vermont, we visited the birthplace of the Prophet Joseph Smith on the old Smith farm, where a monument to his memory has been erected by the Church; we stayed at the cottage which stands on the exact spot where he was born. Following is an extract from a letter I wrote at the time to President Joseph F. Smith regarding this sacred spot: After dinner we took a walk over to the old site where the Mack house stood, saw where the old hearth and cellar were built, and the remains of the old flower garden. Whether this was the place or not, we imagined that it was here that Joseph Smith [Senior] courted and won the romantic hand of Lucy Mack. We discussed the matter, and all of us felt the spell. The whole thing was accentuated by a beautiful moon, which made things almost as bright as day. We wandered back to the old well where we had a refreshing drink. As we walked around the cottage: we could see in our mind's eye the little boy Hyrum playing about these grounds. We saw the old stone step where we imagined he sometimes sat and ate bread and milk out of a wooden bowl, using a IN RETROSPECT pewter spoon, or bread and berry jam, as other New England children were wont to do. Everything seemed so sacred to us. We sat on the porch a while and then decided we wanted to gather round the old hearthstone. We could imagine Lucy Mack Smith sitting here by a log fire, bathing the baby Prophet, and the dear little boy Hyrum waiting upon her, and leaning upon her shoulder in turns. We thought of the cold, bleak night when the Prophet was born, and wondered how they managed to keep warm. After chatting for a while we sang, ''Joseph Smith's First Prayer,' and other suitable hymns. I can assure you we will never live long enough to forget this wonderful and impressive night.... Today we shall visit the old schoolhouse, the farmhouse, the sugar mill or house, and the groves surrounding this sacred and historic spot." At Palmyra we visited the store in the upper rooms of which the first edition of the Book of Mormon was printed. We also had the privilege of meeting Mr. Pliny P. Sexton, the owner of the Hill Cumorah. We were then taken by auto out to the Hill Cumorah and to the Smith farm where the home built by the Smith family in 1824 still stands. Brother Willard Bean, in charge of the farm, took us all about the place and over to the Sacred Grove one of the most beautiful spots that can be imagined, some of the trees standing 200 feet high. I think we were more impressed with this grove than with any other spot connected with the visit in this locality, for it was here that Joseph Smith as a boy made his first appeal to heaven. Our next stop was at Kirtland, Ohio, where we visited the Kirtland Temple, owned * , Vol. 8, , pages 515-516. 391 by the Reorganized Church. We saw the old Mormon cemetery, which is well kept, also many of the original Mormon homes. The house owned by the Prophet, in which his son Joseph was born, was still standing and at that time was used for a store. Enroute from Chicago to Independence, we stopped in Nauvoo, crossing the Mississippi River from Montrose on a small ferry boat which was used to transfer hay, coal, livestock, freight, and passengers. In Nauvoo we visited the temple site and many of the homes of the early Mormons, also the spot where the organization of the Relief Society took place in 1842. We pictured this gathering of only eighteen members in the upper room of the building and wondered if they, or even the founder himself, comprehended the magnitude of the movement thus begun in the interest of women. In the afternoon we visited Carthage Jail twelve miles from Nauvoo. In and about Independence we were conducted to many places of historic interest by President Samuel O. Bennion, including Richmond and Liberty. At Richmond we visited the old Mormon cemetery where the Church has erected a monument in memory of Oliver Cowdery, who was buried there. We saw the home of David Whitmer, his grave in a city cemetery, also the site where the old Richmond Jail stood. It was in this jail that the Prophet Joseph and the Patriarch Hyrum were imprisoned all one winter. We also visited the site of the Liberty Jail, the basement of which remains as it was at the time Joseph and Hyrum Smith and Parley P. Pratt were imprisoned 392 aa: in it. They spent many months in President Joseph F. Smith and Presithis dark and dingy cellar place, and dent Emmeline B. Wells were both it was there an attempt was made to intensely interested in the details of feed them human flesh. Our trip. Upon our return after six weeks, President Joseph F. Smith and President Emmeline B. Wells were both intensely interested in the details of our trip. (To be continued )