Little Paths Of Peace To Follow Lella Marler Hoggan "Christ sought the mountain's solitude, and there his touch with God renewed. So I to meet each daily care, refresh my strength in silent prayer." T is a troubled world in which we are living today. The measured rhythm of marching feet, the zoom and roar of war, are drowning out the sound of song and chapel bell. It is a time of fear and foreboding, of anxiety and nervous strain. Our lives, like frail boats on a stormy sea, are being driven and tossed. The fundamentals of culture and progress are threatened. Life and all that life holds dear are hanging in the balance. "What part," we ask ourselves, "are we to play in this shamble of death and destruction? Is there no place in all the world where we may turn for protection and safety? Is there not some little harbor of rest where we may obtain solace and reassurance?" Even though fear and greed and hate now stalk the earth, there is in the hearts of many men, the world around, a passionate yearning for peace and security. But how many of them are having that yearning satisfied? 'Their purposes are being thwarted; their hopes and desires, frustrated. The things that couldn't happen, are happening. Men have tried to solve the intellectual, the social, and the economic problems of the world, but too often they have tried to solve them without the help of divine guidance. The condition of strife in which we find ourselves today is eloquent evidence of their failure. Obedience to truth brings its own Page 416 ?Mabel Jones Gabbott. Reward. Broken law administers its own punishment. If synthetic philosophies go into the pattern of life, how can we hope to produce something true and beautiful? If we permit the skeptics to take God out of religion and religion out of life, why should we wonder if the morale of the world goes "slumming"? The wisdom of the ages has been handed down to this generation. We are in possession of more inventions, greater discoveries, and vaster experiences than have been possessed by any other age of the world. Notwithstanding all of these privileges and blessings, we are today engaged in a war more devastating in loss of life, property, and basic values, than any other war in the history of the world. How can this chaotic condition be overcome and peace and order be restored? WE, learned long ago that writing words into a pact or document does not bring about a state of peace. The ideal has to be written into the hearts of men. Wise men down the years have given us little keys which, if accepted and used, would solve our problems. Centuries ago the Oriental philosopher, Confucius, said, "God leads men to tranquil security." When urged to give in one word the secret of a happy life, he gave, in the translation of our own tongue, the word, "equanimity." The old mystics proclaimed that LITTLE PATHS OF PEACE TO FOLLOW Christianity gives "peace at the center." Jehovah's voice to the ancients comes down the years to all of us: "Be still, and know that I am God." It is this "tranquil security," this "equanimity," this "peace at the center," that we need today to fortify us against the tragic emergency that is knocking at our doors. The life of the Master is a symbol of serenity. His plan of life and salvation is called the "Gospel of Peace." His spirit of peace still goes out to all men who bring their lives into harmony with his teachings. When we live in harmony with Him, and at peace with ourselves, we shall be prepared to live in brotherly love with our fellow men. We need the guidance of His holy spirit at all times, but particularly when the world is rocked with tumult as it is today. Prayer is the medium through which we commune with Him and receive the inspiration and guidance that helps us to solve many of the problems of these tragic times. Long ago He said: "Behold, I stand at the door and knock: if any man hear my voice, and open the door, I will come in to him, and sup with him, and he with me." That invitation is still held out to the children of men. The path of prayer may lead us to some quiet retreat where we may hear the call of birds, the cadence of falling water, or the rustle of the wind in the leaves, or it may lead us to the sanctuary of our own little room. It is the spirit of prayer, however, that is of most importance. If we go in faith, in humility, in sincerity, and confide in our Heavenly Father as our great, true friend, we shall come away from the place of prayer 
filled with the spirit of peace, and we shall be comforted, uplifted, renewed in courage, and ready for any emergency. There are many other little paths that bring us close to our Maker and which lead to peace. Through these troubled times of confusion and unrest they have not been blacked out. They are still open to all who are seeking to establish "peace on earth and good will toward men." There is the path of faith that leads us to the portals of the Church, wherein we may commune with the Most High. The sacrament, the Word of God, the holy song, the friendly greeting, send us back to our homes strengthened, reinforced, and better prepared to meet life courageously and victoriously. There is the path of service that leads us to administer tenderly to those who are in need. A handclasp, a word of courage, a beautiful thought, a good deed, bring new hope to another, and peace and satisfaction to ourselves. Then there is the path of song, where tender melodies and brave words lift the heart above the cares of every day. Let us sing little lilting songs of joy as well as those of more serious mood. Sometimes let us remember and sing John Henry Newman's great hymn:
Lead kindly light amid the encircling gloom Lead thou me on! The night is dark and I am far from home? Lead thou me on!
These and any number of other little paths, if followed, will lead to inner spiritual peace. As men follow these paths, there will come an outward peace among all men.