THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

Belle S. Spafford - President

Marianne C. Sharp - First Counselor

Velma N. Simonsen - Second Counselor

Margaret C. Pickering - Secretary-Treasurer

Achsa E. Paxman

Leone G. Layton

Lillie C. Adams

Alta J. Vance

Mary G. Judd

Blanche B. Stoddard

Ethel C. Smith

Christine H. Robinson

Anna B. Hart

Evon W. Peterson

Louise W. Madsen

Alberta H. Christensen

Edith S. Elliott

Leone O. Jacobs

Aleine M. Young

Nellie W. Neal

Florence J. Madsen

Mary J. Wilson

Josie B. Bay

Vol. 37 JUNE 1950 No. 6

Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741: Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245.
Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c.

=== UNCAPTURED BODY TEXT (3 segments, 43,113 chars) ===

These are always books that can be read with pleasure by every member of the family—books that can be discussed by all, that will become prized library volumes. How Club Members Save 50% If you join the Family Reading Club, you will receive the Club's review of the forthcoming selection each month. It is not necessary to accept a book each month—only four during an entire year to retain membership. And instead of paying $2.75 to $3.50 for each book, members pay only $1.89—plus a few cents for postage and handling. In addition, members receive a free Bonus Book with each four selections they buy, thus saving up to 50% on books they receive from the Club! Send No Money—Just Mail Coupon Send no money—just mail the coupon. We will send you your copy of 'Faith to Live By'' free—plus a copy of 'Gentian Hill''as your first selection, together with the complete story of the Family Reading Club. At the same time we will reserve a membership in your name. If you decide to cancel your reservation, merely return the copy of "Gentian Hill'' within 10 days and there will be no further obligation. But whether or not you join the Club, 7 copy of ''Faith to Live By" ours to keep ABSOLUTELY y BR REE. However, as the number of free copies to be distributed in this way is limited, we urge you to mail the coupon now! FAMILY READING CLUB @ MINEOLA, NEW YORK "GENTIAN HILL' by Elizabeth Goudge The author of ''Pilgrim's Inn"' now tells the story of two orphans who came together to relive one of the most beautiful legends in English folklore. Published at $3.50, but as your first selection, only $1.89. Selection if you decide to join. Amily ae Gh Makes You This Offer Mail This Coupon I ABSOLUTELY FREE "FAITH TO LIVE BY" FAMILY READING CLUB, DEPT. 6 RSM MINEOLA, NEW YORK Please send me at once a copy of ''Faith to Live By" and also a copy of ''Gentian Hill.'' At the same time, reserve a membership for me in the Club. If I decide not to join the Club, I will return 'Gentian Hill'' within 10 days and you are to cancel my reservation. Otherwise enroll me as a member and send me each month a review of the Club's forthcoming selection, which I may accept or reject as I choose. There are no membership dues or fees, only the requirement—if I join—to accept a minimum of four Club selections (beginning with 'Gentian Hill'') during the coming twelve months at only $1.89 each, plus postage and handling. As a member, I will be entitled to a free Bonus Book with each four Club selections I accept. The copy of ''Faith to Live By'' is mine to keep— free—whether or not I join. Mr. Aa Miss (Please Print) WOOMEES wk cece wets GH.. Um. Se Zone Staie Age if Occupation under 21 Same price in Canada: 105 Bond St., Toronto 2, Ont. Offer good only in U. S. A. And Canada. Py eos es es a ee ee ee we ol s % Willard Luce BLOSSOMS IN THE CANYON THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE VOL. 37, NO. 

6 JUNE 1950

 oS loral Offering Eva Willes Wangsgaard I send you this bouquet of purple phlox But more than petaled silk I offer you The perfume that the evening star unlocks, The sun in warm intensities, the dew Reflecting dawn, and midnight's purple peace. The rain is here and cool embrace of snow, The mold of leaves once scarlet, spring's release, The living loam, and life's mysterious flow. I offer all of these, but you alone Can know if it is earth or sky you hold. The sky records no path where birds have flown, No song or wing print, feather gray or gold; But nothing is minute enough to bare Its breast to earth and leave no imprint there. The Cover: Blossoms of the Joshua Tree, Photograph by Josef Muench. Brigham Young President Levi Edgar Young Of the First Council of Seventy his hands to mankind with a purer gesture; no man ever tried to make people happier than did Brigham Young. His life was one of conflict with his fellow men, for he was compelled to suffer the injustices of men who did not appreciate his ideals of religion and life. His comprehension of the feelings of children and youth gave him an appreciation of their hidden powers which naturally made them love the right. His sense of responsibility and love of duty made him kind. Yet he was a power and gave expressions of justice and the right with words not to be misunderstood. A hard worker and organizer, he led his people as a true leader, for people felt the power of his courage and rare intelligence. The Priesthood of God gave men power, and he awakened that power to activity and ideals for the establishing of faith in God and a rare patriotism which made for the kingdom of the hereafter. Brigham Young may be seen from many viewpoints. Born in a New England cabin in the State of Vermont, June 1, 1801, he knew from the beginning the meaning of pioneer life. When he became a member of the Church of Jesus Christ over which he was destined to preside, he first went forth as a humble missionary. Poor in purse, but rich in spirit, he acquired a knowledge and understanding of people's hearts. He saw men cut Page 364 N: man ever stretched forth down the sturdy oaks of the forests and build cabins for their homes. He knew the hardships of the clearing of the land for corn and wheat fields, and he developed that quick and - accurate observation vouchsafed to few men. Large in purpose was the march > of the Mormon pioneers to the West under Brigham Young's leadership, for it resulted in the creation of a commonwealth which takes its place industrially, socially, and intellectually among the foremost states of the Union. The winter of 1845-46 was a sorrowful time for the Mormons in Nauvoo. Forced out of their city, they crossed as an organized company the icebound Mississippi River, and camped on the frozen grounds of. Iowa. Nine little babies were born in one night in the snow-beleaguered camps. Men, women, and children had been forced into the wilderness; and anxious, alert, hungry, and weary, they followed their leader and were unafraid. 'There were no roads, and day by day they were compelled to ford dangerous streams, and to struggle through the mire of the days of melting snows. Into the silent new country beyond the Mississippi they marched on and on, knowing always that in the depths of the western wilds, Indians lurked to beset their paths. But the mists of distance were mellow and golden, and soon the winds of spring blew fresh and fair. In the long march to the country be- BRIGHAM YOUNG yond the Rocky Mountains, they realized that the boundaries of spiritual life were broadening; the physical frontier was becoming more flexible and vibrating. 'They had large problems to solve, and they knew that they could only be solved by open-minded constructive thought. They did not think of themselves alone, but of future generations. As we look back to those days, someone must have carried the chalice; someone must have borne the message of Christ our Lord. Those pioneers believed and proved by their work that art, knowledge, and religion are the unifying powers of life. Yet in the history of human achievement, progress comes as a result of the hands of toil. After their long trek over the plains, the pioneers drank of the waters of the mountain streams and heard the voice of their leader declare that "This Is the Place," and they realized that the problems of material existence and life must first be solved. They plowed on the first days, they planted their gardens; they turned the waters of the streams upon the land, and dedicated their work to God. The sagebrush waste and Indian wickiup gave way to the things that make for civilization and the larger life. Joseph Conrad, in his novel entitled Lord Jim, has written these words concerning the people who go out into the wilderness to build their homes: To us their less-tried successors, they appear not as agents of trade, but as instruments of a recorded destiny; pushing out into the unknown in obedience to an inward voice, to an impulse beating in the blood, to a dream of the future. 365 Into whatever climes the pioneers went, they were forced to conquer the soil, to dig ditches and canals, to fight the pests, to endure the cold of winter. They sang at their work, for they loved the soil. The blessing of God was over all the land. The sunlight gave forth life; streams and mountains became filled with the power of a new day. The desert was flooded with light; and happiness was in their homes, though they were at first but sagebrush huts and log cabins. HILE in camp at Winter Quarters, President Young was visited by Indian chiefs who solicited help from him and his people. On this matter Brigham Young wrote to the President of the United States in behalf of his people: NEAR COUNCIL BLUFFS, BUTLER'S PARK Omaha Nation, Sept. 7, 1846 Sir: Since our communication of the gth ult. To Your Excellency, the Omaha Indians have returned from their summer hunt, and we have had an interview in general council with their chiefs and braves, who express a willingness that we should tarry on their lands, and use what wood and timber would be necessary for our convenience, while we were preparing to prosecute our journey, as may be seen from a duplicate of theirs to us of the 3: lst of August, which will be presented by Col. Kane. In council they were much more specific than in their writings, and Big Elk, in behalf of his nation, requested us to lend them teams to draw their corn at harvest, and help keep it after it was deposited, to assist them in building houses, making fields, doing some blacksmithing, etc., and to teach some of their young men 366 to do the same, and also keep some goods and trade them while we tarried among them. We responded to all their wishes in the same spirit of kindness manifested by them, and told them we would do them all the good we could, with the same proviso they made, if the President was willing; and this is why we write. Should Your Excellency consider the request of the Indians for instruction, etc., reasonable, and signify the same to us, we will give them all the information in mechanism and farming the nature of the case will admit, which will give us the opportunity of getting the assistance of their men to help us herd and labor, which we have much needed since the organization of the battalion. A license, giving us permission to trade with the Indians while we are tarrying on or passing through their lands, made out in the name of Newel K. Whitney, our agent in camp, would be a favor to our people and our red neighbors. All of which is submitted to Your Excellency's consideration and the confidence of Col. Kane. Done in behalf of the council of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, at the time and place before mentioned, and Camp of Israel. Most respectfully, BRIGHAM YOUNG, President. WILLARD RICHARDS, Clerk To James K. Polk, President U. S. Brigham Young knew that he had settled on the lands that were claimed by the Indians. Must be done them. Among his friends from the first was Chief Washakie, who, with a_ considerable following, arrived in Salt Lake, August 6, 1847. With five of his warriors he called upon Governor - Young and expressed a desire to trade with the Mormons, and to Justice RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1950 conclude a peace with the Ute Indian chief, Walker. - Beautifully is the meeting of September 3d described by the historian, Dr. Grace Hibbard: Each chief brought with him about fifty of his warriors, and when Governor Young asked Walker and Washakie if they wished to make peace and to be friends with each other, the answer from both chiefs was, "Yes," whereupon Young requested each warrior who was of the same mind to rise and hold up his right hand. The vote was unanimous. He told them that they must never fight each other again, but must live in peace so that they could travel in each other's company and trade with each other. The pipe of peace was then produced and offered to the Great Spirit. Every one of the Indians smoked in token of lasting friendship. The colonists were constantly admonished by President Young to try to understand the Indians and to deal with them honestly and righteously. He made a remarkable statement, concerning the Indians, in 1856, when he said: Let the millions of acres of land now lying waste be given to the Indians for cultivation and use. Let the poor Indians be taught the arts of civilization, and to draw their sustenance from the ample and sure resources of mother earth, and to follow the peaceful avocations of the tiller of the soil, raising grain and stock for subsistence, instead of pursuing the uncertain chances of war and game for a livelihood. ONE of the first laws of Utah Territory established and _ provided for. A uniform system of schools supported by public taxation. Every county was divided into school districts which were the Courtesy, The Salt Lake Tribune STATUE OF BRIGHAM YOUNG BY MAHONRI YOUNG Placed in Statuary Hall, Washington, D. C. June 1, 1950 (Photograph is of the plaster model exhibited in Salt Lake City, Utah, in 1947. Page 36/ 368 Courtesy, The Deseret News BRIGHAM YOUNG MONUMENT At his birthplace in Whitingham, Vermont Dedicated May 28, 1950 This. Monument was designed by five grandsons of Brigham Young: Don C. Young, George Cannon Young, Lorenzo S. Young, Georgius Y. Cannon, and Edward P. Young. * xe x % ecclesiastical and political units of the government. 'l'owns were far "apart and communication was difficult, but with the laying out of towns and settlements, a school and meeting house were the first public buildings to be constructed. Schools were thriving in 1850. The Deseret News has this to say in its issue of November 27, 1850: Common schools were beginning in all parts of the city for the winter; and plans for the construction of school houses in every ward were being made, with a view for a general system of school houses throughout the city. One plan had already been submitted, which comprised three nearly two tons of school books. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1950 large school rooms, a large hall for lecturing, a private study, reading room and library. A parent or High School began on the 11th of November; terms, thirty shillings per quarter, under the direction of Chancellor Spencer. It is expected that teachers generally will have access to this school, and through them a system of uniformity will be established for - conducting schools throughout the valleys. Elder Woodruff has arrived with Donations from the states are already arriving in the shape of scientific instruments, and other apparatus for the benefit of the University; also valuable books for the library. Mr. W. I. Appleby is the lbrarian. In 1852, Robert L. Campbell, the secretary of the Board of Regents of the University of Deseret, said: We are happy to report that many select schools are in successful operation combining the languages and the higher branches of education generally. The founding of the University of Utah was contemporary with the founding of the State. After the harvest of 1848, in which year the gulls saved the crops, the pioneers began to plan for the building of a higher institution of learning, where the "rising generation" might partake of the influences conducive to "good citizenship." The people were over a thousand miles from the borders of civilization, and though they were just beginning to build their homes in the very heart of the Great Basin, and were without money, they opened in a very humble manner the first university west of the Missouri River. Soon after the organization of the provisional government of the State of Deseret, Governor Brigham Young signed an act, passed by the - first legislative assembly, incorporat- BRIGHAM YOUNG ing the University of the State of Deseret. 'This ordinance was approved February 28, 1850. 'The same legislative assembly that created the charter elected Orson Spencer, chancellor, and the following men as regents: Daniel Spencer, Orson Pratt, John M. Bernhisel, Samuel W. Richards, W. W. Phelps, Albert Carrington, William I. Appleby, Daniel H. Wells, Robert L. Campbell, Hosea Stout, Elias Smith, and Zerubbabel Snow. HE University of Utah, or the "parent school," was opened in the home of John Pack in the Seventeenth Ward of Salt Lake City, November 11, 1850. 'The Deseret News of November 16th 'says: The Parent School commenced on Monday at the home of Mrs. Pack in the Seventeenth Ward under the direction and supervision of Professor Orson Spencer. The Board of Regents has employed Dr. Cyrus W. Collins, M. A., for President, who will teach all branches taught in the High School. 'The prospects are favorable for a rapid advance in the sciences. In the same issue, the News announced the arrival of school books _ into the valley, which were brought by Wilford Woodruff. The Pack house was located on the corner of West Temple and First North, immediately east of the present Seventeenth Ward chapel. Sessions of the school were held in the parlor, and immediately across the hall was located the first store in Utah, where gold dust and beaver skins were used as mediums of exchange, and where goods were bartered off. 369 In 1855, President Young organized the "Universal Scientific Society," for the purpose of studying the scientific and historical questions and problems. A museum, library, and reading room were to be built, and a resolution was passed by the Board of Control stating that it would act and co-operate with the Board of Regents of the University of Deseret. Governor Young, in addressing the society in the Sixteenth Ward, in 1855, said: We wish you to go ahead and organize the society. Elect good officers and have lectures on every branch of science as often as possible. I The members proceeded to organize the society and extended an invitation to all the young men of Salt Lake City and the surrounding settlements to become members, and "unite in making a systematic study of the fauna and flora of Utah; and do all in their power to keep the history of their towns and to make careful record of Indian legends and traditions.' Wilford Woodruff became the first president of the society, and, at a meeting held January 8, 1855, the University of Deseret was solicited to extend its aid in every way possible. X OK OK OHN RUSKIN once wrote: "The power of the human mind had its growth in the wilderness: much more must be the conception, the love of beauty be an image of God's daily work.'" Centers of art and music were built in pioneer days. There was the "Tabernacle in. The Wilderness," which is a fine example of the utilizing of the re- 370 sources of the land for the purpose of having a place of divine worship. The building impresses one as an immense irresistible force, "humbly superhuman," and an example of sovereign intelligence and feeling. It is, as the great Ibsen would say, "an illumination of life." 'Thomas FE. Tallmadge says in speaking of Greek classicism found in America: Up and down the Atlantic sea board, through the Western Reserve, along the Gulf of Mexico, up the Mississippi, and over the plains, the Greek Revival spread. I have noticed that the famous Tabernacle built in Salt Lake City by that extraordinary man, Brigham Young, has the tell-tale Greek profiles in its mouldings and cornices. In all these localities, climate, building materials, and even the habits of the people differ enormously. Yet the style of architecture and even its forms are common to all. While from the beginning, it has been a place of divine worship, the great Tabernacle has always been a center for music, and the celebrated artists of the world have sung here. Symphony orchestras from the large musical centers of America have played upon its stage, and many of the world's noted speakers and lecturers have spoken from its rostrum., On July 5, 1869, exercises in honor of Independence Day were held in the Tabernacle, and were attended by the school children of the city, as well as the students of the University of Deseret. The different industries of the 'Territory were represented, and on the stand in front of the large organ the students of the University displayed a banner, on which were the words, "Protecteriam Scientiarum et Artium."

---

Books to Study Johnson, Burgess, New Rhyming Dictionary and Poet's Handbook, Harpers, New York, $2.50. Wood, Clement, Wood's Unabridged Rhyming Dictionary, The World Publishing Company, Cleveland, Ohio, $3.50. Hamilton, Anne, How to Revise Your Own Poems, The Writer, Inc., 8 Arlington Street, Boston, Massachusetts, $1.50. Coblentz, Stanton A., An Editor Looks at Poetry, Wings Press, Mill Valley, California, $2.00. Esenwein, J. Berg, and Roberts, Mary Eleanor, The Art oF Versification, The Home Correspondence School, Springfield, Mass., $3.00. A Gray Hawk Circling Marvin Jones A gray hawk circles where the endless sage Of desert silver merges with the sea— And circling, does the gray hawk sense the age Of desert silver— or infinity? What prompts his reaching wings to challenge wind, What wisdom lifts his wild heart to the sky, And in what measure is his living thinned By desert silver or a hurt, gray cry? Gray as the phantom of relinquished springs, I stood and reached to sky and sea and sand, Reached to the wind and its imaginings To find a greater desert in your hand The Short Story With a Plot Ramona W. Cannon* AY a "story" be classed as a story if it has no plot, in the generally accepted sense of the term? Some arbiters of short-story standards answer yes— others, no. We shall not argue for or against, but wish to call attention to the opinion of experienced craftsmen that amateurs must master the plot-story before they can successfully write any other kind. You know how most of us Jong to create the "art" story—in which the important aim is to sustain a mood, to highlight some very special character, to "render" a certain incident with beautiful and_ secret symbolism, or merely to reveal a "slice of life!'' But we should remember that no kind of expression of art, such as these listed above, for instance, is barred from a narrative simply because it conforms to a definite structural architecture, even as any house must do. It is a mistake to fee] that a plot must smack of the commonplace or the artificial— merely because some plots do so. Storytelling is a timeless art, perhaps the oldest in existence. The Egyptians were enjoying it six thousand years ago. John Gallishaw, highly regarded as a writer and teacher of writing, feels that he has made certain discoveries about the principles basic to _ storytelling throughout all these centuries. He presents these, with case stories, illustrating his points, in a book The *For a biographical sketch of Mrs. Cannon, see "From Near and Far," Only Two Ways to Write a Story. I shall attempt to discuss, in a greatly simplified and abbreviated form, a few of the highlights in his book. Gallishaw divides the plot story into two types, that of accomplishment, and that of decision. But, since there is little variation in the basic method of developing the two kinds, we shall remain with the story of accomplishment. It is called that because one main character in the story develops one main purpose and sets out to accomplish that purpose. Architecturally, there are three blocks which support the structure of the narrative. They are: (1) the beginning; (2) the body (or middle); (3) the ending. The beginning is divided into two parts: (a) an exposition of the state of affairs or the condition that is responsible for the purpose which the main character sets out to accomplish, and (b) a clear and* unmistakable statement of what that purpose of the main character is. As soon as we know that pur pose, we have finished the alti ning and are ready to launch into the body of the story. The body presents a struggle or conflict growing out of the main purpose of the main character. It may be one long-drawn-out struggle to bring about the accomplishment. Or it may be a series of briefer attempts. The reader's curiosity must page 432. Page 379 380 be whetted (suspense); he must feel as though he himself is the protagonist (identification); he must be consumed with a desire for the protagonist to win (emotion). If the suspense is to be keen, favorable incidents, which make it seem that surely this main character must win, should alternate surprisingly and dramatically with unfavorable incidents, which make it seem impossible for him to win. These favorable incidents Gallishaw terms, quite logically, "furtherances"; the unfavorable ones, "hindrances." And, for high story interest, they should follow very rapidly upon each other's heels. 'They should thwart each other in an exciting fashion, which produces the drama or clash which readers love in stories. The ending nearly always has two parts: (a) the "conclusive act," which shows whether the protagonist has accomplished his purpose or has abandoned it; (b) the "sequel"—an explanation of some sort, or another incident added for effect—something to bring about a gradual close rather than to drop 'one breathlessly from the top of the precipice of interest and action. CGALLISHAW, in his illustrative material, makes story, "The Adventure of Ulysses and the Cyclops," Lamb's version of one of the oldest stories known to man, taken from the Odyssey of the ancient Greek poet Homer. Ulysses' problem (or purpose) was to get out of the cave where he and his men were locked by the Cyclops, who was devouring them two at a time. This they eventualuse of the. ~ RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1950 ly accomplished, and took, with all haste, to their waiting boat. 'That is the "conclusive act"—the end. Then follows the "sequel." The blinded giant rushes after them, guided by sound, and hurls a crag at them in the sea. It barely misses striking the boat and killing them all. I should like to illustrate Gallishaw's plan of story architecture with the Biblical story of Joseph, which, while it is factual, is yet told with consummate skill. The first seven verses of Genesis, chapter thirty-seven, tell us the condition out of which the problem grows. Joseph, the favorite son of his father, is hated by his older brothers. He accentuates the situation by telling them this dream— that their sheaves bowed down to his. Angrily, they answer: "Shalt thou indeed reign over us? Or shalt thou indeed have dominion over us?" There is the problem growing out of the condition. Could it be more succinctly stated? But, with the Biblical feeling for poetical repetition, we have an even stronger statement of the problem. In another dream, the sun and moon and eleven stars made obeisance to Joseph, and his father said, "Shall I and thy mother and thy brethren indeed come to bow down ourselves to thee to the earth?" The "conclusive act" occurs when the eleven brothers bring their aged father down to Egypt, and the brothers bow down to the earth before Joseph. A fairly long "sequel" follows— Jacob's blessing of his sons, his death and _ burial. Now, for the "furtherance" and THE SHORT STORY WITH A PLOT "hindrance'—the dramatic clashes in the body of the story. We shall mention a few. Joseph's brothers plan to kill him (a decided "hind- -rance"'). Hoping to save Joseph secretly, Reuben persuades his brothers to put Joseph in a pit ("furtherance"). When Reuben is not there, they sell Joseph to the Midianites ('hindrance'). Joseph is sold into slavery in Egypt. This qualifies as what Gallishaw calls a dramatic "hindrance." It is, to all appearances, a "hindrance," yet, actually and surprisingly, it turns out to be a "furtherance." Potiphar's casting him into prison is a dramatic "hindrance" within a dramatic "hindrance," for there Joseph learns much as overseer of the prison to help him later, and he meets the butler and the baker, through whom he comes to P

---

Dark in the Chrysalis Alice Morrey Bailey CHAPTER 6 Edith Ashe, a widow, forty-seven, finds she is falling in love with her employer, Cory Lewis, a business man in his fifties. As companion to his mother, an aged and crippled woman, she has also assumed management of his large, badly decorated house, and has become attached to his daughter, Linnie, a singer, who is home from Boston to be married in June. She and Linnie redecorate the living and dining rooms into beauty, using Edith's lovely furniture which has been stored. The activity improves Edith's health, makes the girl happy, gives the grandmother something to live for, and _ stimulates Cory, on his return from a trip, to undertake the complete renovation of the old place for the wedding. Cory's announcement that he is going to marry, plunges Edith into disappointment. Alternately tormented and tormenting herself with questions and accusations after Linnie's unexpected outburst at the table. It was no use to tell herself that she was silly and romantic, or to be amazed that she could _ think of herself and Cory with Marvin gone only two years. The truth of it was she could and did, and it seemed not to have anything to do with her feeling for Marvin, to alter it in any way. She went over events leading to her present attitude, analyzing how this feeling for Cory came into being. It had been so from the first time she heard his voice, even before she met him, she realized. There was something dynamic and compelling that had drawn and held her, even over the telephone, even when he was away. Except for it Fates: lay awake a long time, She would never have taken this job in the first place, nor stayed once she was here. Why had he sparked her to exert her very best efforts, to increase her capacity? Why had she taken his daughter Linnie to her heart, as if she were her very own? More than that, she had sensed a reciprocated feeling in him. There were those moments when, as tonight, he had admitted her to his parenthood by so small and intimate a thing as a wink. These things had created that sense of belonging, that feeling of dovetailing in their personalities. It was no use to conjecture whether Linnie thought her father meant marriage with herself or someone else. Either was humiliating. Of course Linnie must have meant someone else, but deeper than embarrassment was this definite sense of loss. By morning, however, she had herself well in hand, having gone back to her original motive in doing the things she had done. It was still good. She had wanted to help Linnie, influenced or not influenced by Cory's personality. She had helped Linnie, and she still wanted to finish the program she had started. Inadvertently she had helped Mrs. Lewis and even Amanda, nor would she gloss over the fact that she had helped Cory. Pleased as she was at his approval, she had not launched upon this project as a bid for it. While her Page 407 408 motives were not so clear-cut these last two weeks, still she would continue to plan and work for Linnie. At last, she was able to go to breakfast with no shame in her heart before either Linnie or her father. "Morning, Aunt Edith. What's on the program for today?" There was no rancor in the girl's greeting, no seeming remembrance of last night's scene at the table. After the first guarded and searching glance there was none in Cory's. "We start on you next, my good girl," Edith said. "Oh, lovely. I hoped so. I know exactly the wedding dress I want, but I want you and Daddy to see it before I buy it." "Where is it, Linnie?" asked Cory. — "At Kauffman's, just across the street from your office. I hope you can spare a moment to run over, Daddy. They have the bridesmaids' dresses, too." So it. Was that, though Edith would have preferred to avoid Cory, she met him again in the afternoon. Her black suit, slim and smart, bought with two full weeks of wages, and her new hat, a gorgeous creation in black straw and pastel flowers, and the distinguished English' walkers, gave her the dignity she needed to keep even her inflections and gestures at the correct balance of interest and disinterest. Nobody, simply nobody, was ever going to find out how she had felt about Cory, how she still felt. HE ignored alike his quick look of appreciative appraisal when he saw her, the way he gripped her hand when Linnie came out of the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1950 fitting room—an angelic vision in white satin and lace—and his guiding hand on her elbow as they left the store. She burned with anger at herself, however, that she continued to experience a sharp awareness at his slightest touch. Edith bought a new dress for the dinner Friday night, thinking that it would do also for Linnie's wedding as she might want her to help with the serving, or to list the wedding gifts. The jacket was of metallic cloth in pale pink and silver, with a long, slim skirt of black crepe. On the night of the dinner, the pink highlighted her skin and the silver borrowed spatkle from the thinestones of her necklace and ear clips. With her hair done high in a coronet and curls, she felt very festive. A maid came to help Amanda with the serving. "You understand you are to remain with the guests, to help entertain them," Cory told her once, rather abruptly. "When Mother is tired and wants to go to bed, Amanda will help her." "Yes, Mr. Lewis,' Edith said obediently. 3 The dinner was a success from any point of view. The food, made from Edith's favorite recipes, was exactly right, from the chilled fruit cup to the tall, frosty desserts. Cory, at the head of the table, looked handsome and distinguished, and was an excellent host. Mrs. Lewis was surprisingly aristocratic in her lavender silk, with her white hair and black eyebrows. Her sharp wit was at its best, and brought roars of delighted laughter from the guests. They adored her, and DARK IN THE CHRYSALIS she loved being adored. Her black eyes snapped and her cheeks turned pink with excitement. The small diamonds in her pierced ears glittered and twinkled. Edith could hardly reconcile her with the bitter and lonely old woman of her first acquaintanceship, with the corpselike look she had on that first afternoon when she had fallen to sleep. Tonight she was like a young girl. Linnie herself could not have been more happy. In fact, Linnie was alittle subdued. Of course the guests had pounced on her. "This isn't Linnie!" they declared, and added many more such social inanities, and the usual banter about her coming wedding, the old, stale. Marriage jokes. Linnie smiled and was gracious, her manners letterperfect, but there was still a look of reserve about her. She was lovely as a Rembrandt painting in a flowered, bouffant taffeta, her fair hair shining, her eyes and lips softly dark on her creamy skin. Cory should be very proud of her, Edith thought. No one ever had a lovelier daughter. Edith felt a thrill of pride herself, but wished the guests could see the girl in all the glory of her personality. The conversation was not so scintillating and brilliant as Edith had half expected from these professional men and their wives. Instead, it was more homely and was warmly interesting. Edith liked these people—the Goodings, the Farleys, and Bowmans, the Pierces, and the Westings, felt comfortable with them; they were her kind. They were close friends of Cory's —friends of long standing, and the dinner had not progressed as far as 409 the club steaks before Edith had singled out the woman Cory was going to marry. GHE was handsome and charming and her eyes, flatteringly interested, rarely left Cory's face. If it seemed she was a little possessive, Edith put it down as justifiable under the circumstances, the fact that she noticed it, to her own pangs of definite jealousy. She was a Mrs. Hartwell—Cory called her Jane— and she had come with the Goodings. Cory had introduced Edith simply as Mrs. Ashe, not elaborating her position in the home. There was not a raised eyebrow in the group, but Edith could feel questions, tangible in the air. Its tension remained until Edith asked Linnie to sing. She had_ noticed Cory — glancing at his daughter occasionally, a puzzled concern lingering in his eyes, even while he seemed to listen to Jane, to keep the conversation moving along. She guessed that he felt the same as she did—wanting them to see the girl at her best. "Linnie, you must sing for us," she told the girl. "Oh, Aunt Edith, I would rather not," protested Linnie. All eyes at once turned to Edith. Immediately the question in the atmosphere changed to conjecture, but the guests followed Edith's lead, pressing Linnie to sing. "Linnie, do sing for us," Edith urged, and continued, "the child has a nice voice. She has been in Boston, studying, you know." She was wickedly delighted, thinking what a surprise was in store for them. Cory caught the little in- 410 nuendo of her understatement, and winked at her secretly. "Well," said Linnie, "if I am going to sing I want to do it now, before I eat another bite. I've eaten too much already." Accompanying herself, sang a gay Italian street song, her flute-like voice clear and true on the rapid, intricate notes. The guests applauded her enthusiastically, demanding more, as their food cooled on their plates. "She must have a recital," Jane declared, when Linnie would sing no more. "I'll arrange it." "That's good of you, Jane," said Cory. "She should have had one, but now there is hardly time." "She must have a recital." "No, it would be too much for her just now. Besides, she has no accompanist." "IT can get Emily Dante. She's almost world-famous, you know." "It is out of the question," stated Cory firmly. "The arrangements, a hall, the advertising—" "Forget it," Mr. Bowman spoke up. "I manage the Guild Hall. Best acoustics in town, and a cancellation for June tenth. It's all yours." I "And what's my newspaper good for if it won't advertise her?" chimed in Mr. Pierce. BPITH thought, with consternation, of all there was to do before the wedding. Cory was right. It would overtax the girl, but she stole a look at Linnie. Her face was flushed with excitement and pleasure. Linnie wanted that recital. "But she hasn't been practicing," protested Cory, his defense crumblLinnie RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1950 ing. He, too, could see the look on Linnie's face.. "She has practiced every day since she came home," Edith spoke firmly. "No one in this town ever heard such music as she will give them." "All right," agreed Cory, resigned. "Tf it can be done right. It shouldn't be a second-rate affair." "It won't be, Daddy," Linnie promised. When they rose from dinner she squeezed Edith affectionately in passing. "Your argument won, Aunt Edith," she whispered. "I wish it were you Daddy is martying. You are the prettiest woman here and I love you." Linnie's words were balm to Edith, thinking as she was, what a striking couple Cory and Mrs. Hartley made. Any hopeful doubts she might have harbored were dispelled when she led the women upstairs to repair any damage the dinner had done to make-up and lipstick. "Of course, you must be Linnie's mother's sister," Mrs. Gooding told her in an aside, and went on without waiting for her to reply. "We've wondered for years why Jane and Cory didn't marry. 'They are so tight for each other, and Jane could have done so much for Cory, and for Linnie." "Tm sure of it," smiled Edith. "They look very well together." "Perhaps they will, now that Linnie is leaving." "Perhaps," agreed Edith, noncommittally. It was preposterous, Edith scolded herself, to mourn the loss of something she had never had. Per- (Continued on page 426) Kuropean Pottery and Porcelain Rachel K. Laurgaard [lustrated by Elizabeth Williamson FAIENCE PITCHER Medieval French O you cherish a bit of Dresden china, a dainty ballerina in her petticoat of lace, or a flowersprigged dish with latticed edge? Or, is your pride and joy a fragile set of French Haviland scattered with wild pink roses, which grandmother once used for Sunday dinners? Perhaps a compote of Italian majolica, spilling over with gaily colored fruit is the conservation piece on your buffet, while plaques of blue and white delftware decorate the dining-room walls. There is a long and fascinating history behind these pieces of European pottery and porcelain, the story of ambitious artists and chemists, potters, and merchants striving to perfect ever more beautiful or more durable wares. Until the first specimens of Chinese porcelain reached Europe probably in the twelfth century, Europeans had supped, since time immemorial, from unglazed earthenware, wooden or metal dishes. Such beautiful and mysterious ware as Chinese porcelain excited their wonder and admiration. Princes and potters desired above all things to discover its secret. But they had no knowledge whatsoever of Chinese methods or materials and, for generations, they tried and tried without success. Among the most determined experimenters were the potters and alchemists of Northern Italy, whose patrons, the wealthy merchantprinces of the fourteenth century, were desirous of developing a lucrative porcelain industry of their own. The ships of Venice, Genoa, and Florence were bringing ceramic treasures not only from the Far East but from the Mohammedan countries of the Near East, as well. The Mohammedans specialzed in a ITALIAN MAJOLICA 1400 Page 411 412 GERMAN FAIENCE Lower Rhine Earthenware 1783 brilliantly glazed pottery on which splendid iridescent lusters were painted. From the Moorish traders of Majorca, an island off the coast of Spain, the Italians learned that the secret of this lovely glaze was oxide of tin, and henceforth "majolica'"' -ware—named for Majorca— became a famous product of Italy. The city of Faenza manufactured so much majolica, that when the craft spread to France and Germany, it was by the name "faience" that this tin-glazed earthenware was known. The early shapes of Italian majolica were simple, but later productions drew heavily on_ history and mythology for complicated painted scenes. Grotesque creatures, part human and part animal, were formed into handles and pouring spouts.- Majolica apothecary jars were decorated with the medical symbol of the staff of Hippocrates entwined with serpents. The peak of artistic excellence was reached in Florence under the patronage of the de Medici family, when the sculptor della Robbia was RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1950 the chief designer. His cupids and flowers and baskets of fruit, using lovely blue, Siena red, copper-green, manganese purple, and clear yellow, and his bas-relief plaques of the Madonna and "Bambino" have ever since been favorite subjects of Italian majolists. N spite of these successes, the Florentine potters continued to strive for porcelain. Believing, quite naturally, that its translucence meant that it was a form of glass, they finally evolved the formula for an imitation porcelain composed of a large amount of glass and a small amount of clay. This they. Decorated with designs reminiscent of Chinese blue and white. A few pieces of this so-called de Medici porcelain survive in museums and collections, but after the death of Francesco de Medici in 1587, no more of it was made in Italy.

=== EXTRACTED ADS ===

--- Ad content from V37_06_24_Art_Notes_From_the.txt ---

V37_06_24_Art_Notes_From_the.txt

Bill, her husband, said, "we'd really like to know." His paper, with the black headlines, slipped from his lap, ignored. "There's nothing to tell—that you'd be interested in," she said.
Then she smiled at the three of them. "Be off, all of you, if you don't want to be late." 431 of 1950 365 pages You'll love this big, intense story of faith and courage by a Relief Society Magazine writer. $3.00
Postpaid ORDER NOW Clip Coupon GRANITE PUBLISHING CO. P. O. Box 2521, Salt Lake City, Ut. 6 cents sales tax in Utah Professional and Social Stationery COMMERCIAL AND EDITION PRINTERS AND BOOK BINDERS PAPER RULING DESERET NEWS PRESS 40
Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah From Tear and Far Ramona W. Cannon, author of "The Short Story with a Plot," has contributed many articles, stories, and poems to Church magazines and local newspapers. One offering, "The Taking of Christmas City," won a-Deseret News Christmas story' contest.
With her: marriage to Joseph J. Cannon, Ramona Wilcox became mother to three children ranging in age from seven to two and one-half years, and added four more children to the family. Mr.
Cannon was a former editor of the Deseret News and author of numerous plays.
Five of the seven children show creative literary tendencies.
Four of the children were with their parents in England, where Elder Cannon presided over the British Mission (1934- 1937) and Sister Cannon was president of the Relief Society in that mission. Mrs.
Cannon holds a Master of Arts degree from the University of Utah, and has, at various periods, taught in that institution, in history, English, and languages.
Before her marriage she spent a year in Europe, traveling and studying French in Paris and German in the University of Berlin. She spent one and a half years in Colombia, South America, with her husband and their (at that time) five children. Mrs.
Cannon has been a judge in many literary contests and is a leader in several writers' organizations. She is the author of "Woman's Sphere," a regular feature of The Relief Society Magazine. One at a time—and sometimes two or three at a time—Mrs.
Cannon has been active in all of the Church organizations. * bs bs I am greatly enjoying the Magazine. The stories are delightful. —Grace Sayre, Pasadena, California I love the Magazine and look forward each month for its arrival.
There are so many worthwhile things in it. My husband enjoys reading it, too, and finds much therein to help him in his everyday life. —LaPreale W. Ketron, Davis Dam, Nevada We, here in this community, were especially interested in the story "Now I Know by Inez Bagnell (February, 1950).
Inez is a niece of Sister Grace Callis and is a very gifted and fine person. Her story was about her grandmother who was blind for many years before her death. The grandmother was an Arizona pioneer and her body was taken there for burial. It was on this trip that Inez visited the old homestead, which inspired her story. We would like to see more of Sister Bagnell's stories. —Thora R. Lambert, Kamas, Utah I've hesitated for weeks in writing this, but I have to clear my mind, for I think our Relief Society Magazine is tops. I am very perturbed over the-note in the December 1949 issue, page 864, signed A Bishop. The very idea of this person thinking our Magazine is sad! It is anything but sad, in my opinion. —Mrs. N. Cannon, Magna, Utah I have taken the Magazine for twenty years and love every issue of it. I find it gets better and better as time goes on. We are especially proud to have two of our Boise women win prizes in the recent short story contest—Dorothy C.
Robinson and Florence Berrett Dunford. My first recollection of Relief Society reverts to my association with Sister Robinson. She has been an inspiration and help to me and I have long admired her and her work. As a literary class leader she was a source of strength and support and we _ of the Boise Stake love her very much. She is now a stake counselor in Relief Society. —KEdna J. Vickers, Boise, Idaho I want to write and tell you how much my husband and I enjoy The Relief Society Magazine, He reads the stories and enjoys them very much. We also like the poems. We go thirty-four miles to Brookings to attend Sunday School and hold Relief Society meetings after Sunday School. —Mrs. Raymond Marso, Brandt, South Dakota Gifis— for a lifetime: ARTICLES OF FAITH _ - 56.00 By James E. Talmage Beautifully printed on Bible paper, gilt edges, full-limp leather, flexible binding.
Maroon or black. Library Edition, cloth 0 52.00 JESUS THE CHRIST _____ 2..22 2..2-..------57.00 By James E. Talmage A companion volume for thin paper, leather-bound edition of The Articles of Faith. 804 pages high quality flaxopaque paper, limp leather, gilt edges; black and maroon. Library Edition, cloth _ $2.00 VOICE IN THE WEST$5.00 By Wendell J. Ashton Packed full of human interest and stories of historic events. Deseret Book Company 44
East South Temple Street Salt Lake City 10, Utah and from your local dealers. Mention The Relief Society Magazine When Buying From Advertiser: U. S. POSTAGE 2¢ Paid wal PRESERVE HEALTI in the home ~ with abundance of fresh c canned fruits and vege tables for all year uss Sugar is a preservatiy and an enricher. UTAH-! IDAHO SUGAR COM PAN Y mY, — PESO VOL. 37 NO. My | braviews and Lessons for October
JULY 1950