[Sixty Years Ago]

Sixty Years Ago | | Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, June 1, and June 15, 1890 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RICHTS OF THE Women oF ALL Nations", OUR MOUNTAIN HOME: In contemplating the blessings of our Heavenly Father and the beauties of nature our admiration is particularly drawn out in viewing the magnificence of our lofty mountains, thereby expanding the mind with a sense of their vastness and grandeur; "standing as they do on the East: and on the West of us like sentinels guarding the towers of Zion," or over enchanted ground, filling our minds with a sense of safety from all impending disasters such as floods, tornadoes, etc.
Which are so prevalent in the world in this dispensation Annie N. Bowring
QUIET WAYS ARE BEST
What's the use of worrying, Of hurrying, And scurrying, _ Everybody flurrying, And breaking up their rest, When everyone is teaching us, Preaching and beseeching us, ~ To settle down and end the fuss, For quiet ways are best. —New York Evangelist TIME: "Lost, yesterday, somewhere between sunrise a sunset, two golden hours each set with sixty diamond minutes. No reward is offered for they are gone forever.'—Horace Mann. 'Time is the measurement of duration. We should-not let time pass without learning something that will result in good in our after life. We should cultivate some good principles and overcome bad habtis.
Time is the only little fragment of Eternity that —— to man; and like life it can never be recalled. —Annie Thompson ALL WILL BE WELL All will be well. Why should we ever Aout: it?
There were no blunders in creation's plan. When God's vast mind conceived. And went about it, He was not aided or controlled by man. The stars that move in such immortal beauty Through their appointed pathway seem to tell © Our questioning souls, if we but do our duty, All will be well." —Ella Wheeler 'Wileex - SNOWFLAKE STAKE:. The Relief Society Conference of the Sriowaaké Stake was held at Snowflake, May: 31st; 1890.
After singing and prayer Pres. Emma S.
Smith welcomed all to conference and expressed pleasure in meeting once more with the sisters. Sister Jemima W.
Smith was pleased to have the privilege of meeting in conference. Sister Phebe Kartchner said: "No matter how much wealth or education we may have we will not Fi happy, or able to do much good unless we have a good honest heart." —Della Fish, Sec.  LICE DINWOODEY MOYLE, widow of the late James H. Moyle, former assistant secretary of the United States 'T'reasury and United States commissioner of customs, died in Salt Lake City April fourth at the age of 84. She is survived by four sons and two daughters, including Elder Henry D.
Moyle of the Council of the Twelve. Sister Moyle lived in Washington for some years and later in New York, where her husband presided over the Eastern States Mission. She served for many years on the Ensign Stake Relief Society board and was also the Eastern States Mission Relief Society President. She felt that these experiences greatly enriched her life. ALICE STONE BLACKWELL died March 16, at the age of 93. She was the daughter of Lucy Stone, who believed that married women should retain their own surnames. Lucy Stone set the example. She and her husband, Mr. Blackwell, and their daughter Alice, who remained unmarried, worked ardently for suffrage and more just 'conditions for women.
Alice felt hurt these later years that women fail to use their potential power for great purposes.
Many even fail to vote. She thought they showed little appreciation for women like Woman's Sphere Ramona W.
Cannon her mother, who worked seventy years for the privilege of suffrage for women.
Alice felt that the proposed Equal Rights Amendment to the Constitution, if passed in its present form, would rob women in many states of hard-won favorable legislation. O two women death recently brought an early reunion with their husbands. Annie Dexter Noble died eight days after the demise of her husband, Abraham Noble.
Eminent for her faith, grace, and dignity, Mrs. Noble, with her husband, had fulfilled two missions to her native England. Rose Flashman Noall preceded her husband, Matthew Noall, in death by exactly one month. Mrs. Noall, a musician, who became mother to three children at her marriage, was noted for the unusual harmony and love that existed in her home, with its nine children. (SALLEEN ROBINSON (Mc KAY ), Utah Centennial Queen, and her two attendants, Marie Burnett (Housley) and Mary Louise Gardner (Gessell) recently met in Salt Lake City, to introduce their year-old children: Bill McKay III, Jay Housley, and Linda Gessell. Mrs. McKay and Mrs.
Gessell are residents of Salt Lake City, and Mrs.
Housley makes her home in Oklahoma City. | Page 389 CL) EDITORIAL 9 
VOL. 37 JUNE 1950
Brigham Young—Loyal and Jrue UNE 1, 1801 is the birthdate of Brigham Young, second President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
This year on June 1 ceremonies will be held in the Capitol at Washington, D. C., commemorating the placing of Brigham Young's statue, executed by his grandson Mahonri M. Young, in Statuary Hall as the representative of the State of Utah in the Hall of Fame. Today, 149 years after his birth, Brigham Young is generally acknowledged as one of the greatest, if not the greatest, colonizer in America.