[Vol50 | November 1963 | Page 840 | Fiction | Kiss of the Wind — Chapter 5 | ]
She gave KISS OF THE WIND Margaret a loving wink. "Do we sound smug, my dear?" she asked. "We really don't mean to. Some people never learn to like poi. No doubt Emma Lu is quite weaned away from it by now." "Let Emma Lu speak for herself," she said, as she came in from the garden with the monkey perched on her shoulder. Philip came in with her. Luana was glad he had forgiven his sister for being engaged. Miama, do we have bananas and grapes?" Emma Lu asked. "I think so, dear. Look in the basket on the lanai. 'There should be some, but I never know. Benjy and Bo eat them every day after school." "Now, they'll have to share them with Toki," Emma Lu said. "That's what I've named this little chum." She reached up to pat the monkey. "Ouch! He needs his teeth filed. Larry told me to do this first thing. He bites while he's playing." "That's nght," Phil agreed. "Larty knows all about these monkeys. He says they like you to chatter with them and make little clicking sounds with your tongue." "Like this," Emma Lu said. "Listen to the cute thing. He needs some baby food. Do we have any, Mama?" "Not since the twins were babies," Luana told her. "But Millie Togo, our foreman's wife, has a new baby. She will lend you some. They live in the cottage. We used to call it the playhouse. Remember?" "Tll be nght back," Emma Lu called as she ran through the dewdrenched foliage of the garden to- 84] NOVEMBER 1963 ward the little cottage in the rear of the big white house. The monkey was still on her shoulder. "She's crazy about that monkey," Phil said. "Real smart of Benjy and Bo to dream up that idea. Where are those boys, Mom? They'll be late for school." "Hurry them along, Phil,' Luana suggested. "I'll have everything ready." A minute later Philip called from the boys' bedroom. His voice was alarmed. / "Hey here!" Luana dried her hands on_ her apron as she ran. Ben was close behind her. Benjy was sobbing into his pillow. Bo was not there. "He's gone!"' Benjy wailed. "Bo ran away. He's never coming back. He won't apologize to any old school!" — Mom! Dad — come Luana pressed her hand to her mouth. Her stricken eyes met Ben's. They should have been prepared for something like this. Bo had always been unpredictable and stubborn. Ben sat down on the bed facing Benjy. "Now listen, son," he said, firmly. "Tears never won any battle. Oh, I remember that I have told you that men cry sometimes. But they don't cry very long when there's a job to do. Here, take Daddy's handkerchief and mop up. There — that's better. I want some straight answers. Where did your brother go? He must have told you." "But he didn't, Daddy." Benjy met Ben's eyes with childlike can- 842 dor. "He said he couldn't trust me. I don't know where he went. It was dark. He just sort of disappeared." "Why didn't you come to us?" Ben demanded. "You knew he was doing wrong." Benjy's face crumpled again. "He made me promise," his voice broke. "Scout honor. He said I couldn't tell until you missed him — then he would be clear off this old island." Luana felt sick and dizzy. Margaret, who had come in with Tutu, put her arm around her. "He can't be far away," she said consolingly. "I don't know," Luana answered. "Maybe he's hungry somewhere — or wet and tired. Where would he go? Benjy, look at me. Did Bo take something to eat with him. Tell me, dear." "Two bananas," he answered. "I told him to take Bengals and ham but he said he would have fish baked in the mud He said he would get a canoe." Phil snapped his fingers. "Old Hamana's," he said. "Benjy, have you been riding in canoes? He makes canoes for the native fishermen and for people who travel water between the islands. Tell us." Benjy nodded. "Well — yes. That's not blabbing on Bo, ls it, Phil?" "Absolutely not," Phil said. "You just answer our questions. How often have you been riding in Hamana's canoes?" Benjy drew a long tremulous breath. "Every week," he admitted. "On Saturday morning — after we did our chores. He took us for little rides. But he told us that some day when we had our father's permission he would ride us clear over to Molokai. The Air Force has a big base there now. They send rockets up. Missiles, too." "Molokai!" Margaret gasped, in a shocked voice. "Now I remember. Isn't that the leper island?" There was a long silence. Then Tutu answered, kindly. "Yes, Margaret. But that word is forbidden in Hawaii now. We call it Hansen's disease, and we call the Peninsula of Kalaupapa the Settlement. It isn't the place of horror that it used to be. I will tell you of it later." Ben got to his feet. "Benjy, get your clothes on. As soon as we have breakfast, you and Phil and I will go to Hamana's. We have to start looking somewhere." After the boys had gone, Luana sat quietly at the breakfast table. The food on her plate was untouched. "Some hot coconut milk will help," Tutu said, pouring it into their cups. "Take a few sips, my Luana." "It does help,'"" Luana told her as She drank it slowly. 'Tutu always knows what will help, she thought. Tutu brought her knitting basket and busied her fingers with a bright blue sweater for Pixie, who had hurried off to school. Luana thought it best that she should go as usual. "Take a piece of toast with your milk, Mama," Emma Lu coaxed. "You can't do Bo any good by starving yourself." "We must keep strong to help our men," Tutu murmured. "A woman KISS OF THE WIND can wither away with worry and no food. I have found it best to keep my mind on other things when trouble would send it whirling around in a circle." She looked at Margaret who was sipping milk, too. "I should explain Molokai," 'Tutu said as she knitted, "so that when you return to the Mainland, you can tell them of the wonderful progress that has been made on that island, especially on the peninsula that used to be the horror spot of the world." Emma Lu nodded approval. "I agree,' she said. "It's really sad how ignorance and prejudice try to hinder progress. And the world doesn't know of the progress on Molokai." She smiled at Tutu. "I remember a talk you gave at Relief Society before I went to the Mainland. Tell Aunt Margaret about it. She couldn't hear it from a better teacher." 'Well — maybe part of it," Tutu said, looking at Luana for consent. "I would like you to talk about it, Tutu," she said. "You have such a soothing voice. It quiets my fear even when I am too worried to think straight." "Molokai," Tutu began, "is the island between Oahu and Maui. We flew over part of it last night coming home. The island is the result of three volcanic upheavals — our other islands are the result of many more. The western part of Molokai was formed first. It is as bare as the plains of Nebraska and Wyoming on the Mainland. 'There is a long-dead volcano in the center. The eastern part was formed with a volcano five thousand feet high in the 


 center. Centuries later the Peninsula of Kalaupapa, where the Settlement is, was formed with the little Kauhako crater. Each part is entirely different from the other parts. The western part has nothing at all to offer visitors. Benjy was right when he said the Air Force is now using it as a base for rocket experiments. "The eastern part has much to offer those who like to explore. But there isn't much for those who are seeking pleasure and excitement. That is one reason the visitors know very little about Molokai. I want Margaret to know about it. Someday T will take her there myself. She will hear about the beauty of our other islands from visitors to Hawaii, but little about Molakai." Tuat's right," Emma Lu agreed. "There is only one real town on the island. 'That's Kaunakakai, the capkal," "Yes," Tutu went on. "Ben's father and I spent many happy days there when he was a supervisor for the pineapple company. We went there to inspect the pineapple lands. Now there is a nice little seaside inn there, motor courts, and eating places. But in those days we visited good friends who lived high on a mountain slope above the pineapple lands. Here we would visit and sing through the long evening sunset. We had clear crystal wai from their own spring, and wai-u from their own cows and deer, and waiupaka made from the wai-u and waiu-paka-paka...." Emma Lu's laugh broke in. "Tutu!" she said. "Aunt Margaret is puzzled. Tell her you mean spring 844 water and goat's milk and butter and cheese made from the goat's milk." Tutu chuckled. "Sometimes I get carried away," she said. "TI like the Hawaiian language. It is music — every word ends in a vowel. It is very easy to learn, Margaret. I could teach you in a short time. I have always been grateful that I learned it so soon after my arrival in Hawaii." Margaret shook her head. "I'm not good at languages the way you are, Tutu. Each to his own. Give me a paint brush, and I'll tell you a story of Hawaii that I hope the world will love to look at. I can hardly wait to get started." "How true," Tutu said. "Each to his own talent. You must paint when you get the feeling to do it." Luana stirred restlessly. She was ashamed of her reaction when Margaret mentioned her art work. "Tell about the cheese on Molokai," Emma Lu suggested. Tutu nodded. "My friends on Molokai made many kinds of cheese. One year they had such an abundance they decided to send several cartons of it to some relatives in San Francisco. They went to great pains to pack it and mail it carefully. Months went past, and still they heard nothing about the cheese. At last they sent a letter asking if it had been received. Word came back that the cheese had been received but was immediately thrown away when they saw the name Molokai on the address. They were afraid to eat anything from that island." "That's typical," Emma Lu said. "It shows how suspicious people can be when they are not informed and don't take the trouble to find out about things." "I must tell you of the progress of Kalaupapa," 'Tutu went on. "Only four white people have ever contracted the disease at the Settlement since its founding in 1866. Now it is being brought under control by drugs. It is not communicable to white adults. "A specialist in this disease has said that a person who has recovered from it is no more to be feared than one who-has recovered from tuberculosis or scarlet fever. In 1885 there were one thousand patients on Kalaupapa. 'Today, there are no more than one hundred. And the number is steadily declining. Of the hundred there are orily five white persons." T uru sighed deeply. "Still, we must admit," she said, "that some of the suffering is beyond words. But even that is being alleviated as fast as possible. You will be surprised, Margaret, when I tell you that Kalaupapa is now a happy place, with music and laughter. Some of the discharged patients don't want to leave it. We visit there regularly." "You visit there!'' Margaret gasped. "Right on Kalaupapa!"' Tutu's eyes kindled with compassion. "Yes, we visit there, Margaret — a group of women from this area. We take books and picture slides of the outside world. We have taught them how to make beauty blossom on that rock-bound peninsula. We took them seeds and cuttings from our choicest flora. From year to year, I have seen flowKISS OF THE WIND ers grow where none had ever grown before. "Our ward gave a bazaar and raised money for many ukeleles. I have taught many to play and sing. The ukelele is like the Hawaiian language, Margaret, easy to learn. Just a single chord will do to sing by. If you know two or three chords, you are an expert. When we first started going there a few years ago, after we were advised by medical authorities that it was safe to do so, I could see how starved the people were to express themselves. We taught them to sew and to weave beautiful baskets from the long grass and willows. We taught them to use wood from the barren trees for figurines. "My girls, Emma Lu and Luana, have helped there many times. Also Philip and Ben. That is part of our duty. We must leave no stone unturned where help is needed." There were footsteps on the graveled path outside. Luana jumped to her feet and ran to meet them. A quick glance at Ben's face told her they had not found Bo. His mouth was set in a hard, determined line. His voice was flat. "Hamana has not seen him. We must search again while it is daylight." Benjy's face puckered into tears. Luana held him close to her. "Maybe..." he choked, "he might go to the little crater. He always wanted to go.... Daddy? Said we couldn't go alone.... "That deserted crater!'' Ben said fiercely. "No one goes there. I'll call Elder Farnsworth. We'll form a posse." (To be continued ) 845 General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker Vii suatenal submitted for publieation im this department sheuld be sent through Stake nd itsston I ty I iat Sco regnlations governing the submittal of iitertal tian" No 1 tl d Viagazine for januan 195%. Pase 47. And RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES March 9, 1963 Standing, left to right: Florence Galbraith, Tokoroa Branch; Raiha TeNgaio, Temple View Ward; Theo Garry, President, Hamilton Stake Relief Society. Sister Garry reports: "Sister Galbraith and Sister TeNgaio are two of the oldest active Relief Society members in Hamilton Stake. They are seen with the birthday cake on the occasion of the stake Relief Society anniversary party." 


 Minnesota Stake, Minneapolis Second Ward Make Spring Hats April 1963 Front row, seated, left to right: Fay Dearden, Work Director Counselor; Hazel Rigby; Gwenevere Gwynn; Sharon Norton; Jennie Fisbaugh, work meeting leader. Back row, standing, left to right: Dorothy Mathias; Kay Packard; Joyce Haggen; Ruble Kiessling. Violet Larson, President, Minnesota Stake Relief Society, reports: "The sisters in the Minneapolis Second Ward had a very good time making hats and felt very proud of their accomplishments. Thirteen hats were made in the April work meeting. The straw braid and other materials were purchased at a wholesale milliner's, and the hats were made with the use of frames and hat blocks, steam, glue, and some sewing." East Los Angeles Stake (California) Singing Mothers Present ', April 20, 1963 Front row, beginning seventh from the left, left to right: Leah Jane Hill, First Counselor; Margaret W. Clarke, President, East Los Angeles Stake Relief Society; Oa J. Cannon, member, General Board of Relief Society; Priscilla Taylor, chorister; Katherine Larsen, organist. Sister Clarke reports: "We are very proud of our Singing Mothers who presented an outstanding concert on March 23, 1963, at the stake center in commemoration of the 12lst birthday of Relief Society. Approximately 450 members and friends were in attendance. Refreshments and a social hour followed the concert. This group also responded to an invitation to sing for the Mark Keppel High School PTA meeting in March. As the stake chorus is made up of ward Singing Mothers groups, we have had the pleasure of hearing from these ward groups at our leadership meetings this past year. They also furnished the music for sacrament meetings in their respective wards when invited to do so by their bishops." Hawaii Mission Relief Society General Meeting at Hilo, Hawaii May 22, 1963 Front row, seated, left to right: Pearl Mahi, secretary-treasurer, Hawaii District Relief Society; Abbie Kailimai, President, Hawaii District Relief Society; Chiyo Meyers, First Counselor, Hawaii Mission Relief Society; Lucile B. Fitzgerald; Blanche B. Stoddard, of the General Board of Relief Society; Louise S. Brooks, President, Hawaii Mission Relief Society; Mary Soon, Second Counselor in the Mission Relief Society; Carolyn Kilauuano, Secretary in the Mission Relief Society; Beatrice Bertleman, First Counselor, Hawaii District Relief Society; Annie Taukea, Second Counselor, Hawaii District Relief Society. Sister Brooks reports: "A wonderful general meeting was held, at which time the Singing Mothers participated, as well as representatives from the different branches to give a report of the activities of the past year, as well as to introduce the program for the coming summer months, which is a study of the Hawaiian language. "After the general meeting, we adjourned to the cultural hall where every branch participated in setting up its assigned section with its handiwork. Many Hawaiian kapas were on display. Some of these, with the Hawaiian coat of arms, are seen in the background of the picture. Also on display were lauhala weaving, cooking projects, the sewing of muumuus, and many other sewing projects. "It was truly a dream come true for many of us here, and we will long remember the many happy events that have made it so memorable for us. Sister Stoddard's words of wisdom will be long remembered and put into practice by the sisters." 848 Ie feegae 8 ® a gerne * April 12-13, 1963 Patricia J. Stone, North Argentine Mission Auxiliary Coordinator, reports: "The Argentine North Mission held its first seminar in a series of four during the month of April and the first week in May. These seminars were designed especially for each auxiliary organization. On April 12th and 13th, the presidents and secretaries from our district Relief Societies came into Cordoba to the mission home for a wonderful two days of instructions and learning. Since we are a new mission, we stressed mostly the basic structure of the organization and tried especially to stress the proper line of communication and Church procedure. It was a wonderful experience for all, and we ended our seminar with a testimony meeting. The Spirit of the Lord was with us in great abundance. All the sisters seemed thrilled with the experience of meeting one another and sharing ideas and talents together. "Dorcas T. Barragan is our mission Relief Society supervisor. She has as her secretary, Afton Anderson. Patricia J. Stone is acting as coordinator of the auxiliary organizations in the mission." April 27, 1963 Nola Parry, the chorister, stands at the right in the front row, and the accompanist, Mae Barton, stands at the left in the front row. Helen E. Bunnell, President, Carbon Stake Relief Society, reports: "The social was sponsored by the Carbon Stake Relief Society board, and was presented in appreciation to all the Relief Society members in the stake. The program depicted the many stages of a woman's life, showing that each period, from babyhood to old age, can be rich, happy, and rewarding. The stage was tastefully decorated with evergreens and spring flowers. Dainty refreshments were served from a beautifully appointed table. All who attended were impressed by the spirit and the message of the afternoon event. The Singing Mothers chorus also presented music for stake conference which was held at the time of the Relief Society convention in January." Front row, left to right: Margarethe Anna Wallner, West District; Maria Springle, West District; Olga Friihauf, South District; Caecilia Bogner, Vienna District; Paula Polz, Vienna District; Alice Colton Smith, former President, Austrian Mission Relief Society; W. Whitney Smith, former President, Austrian Mission; Helmi Luschin, South District. Back row, left to right: Gertrude Roth, West District; Elisabeth Elhenicky, Vienna District; Ruth Teml, Vienna District; Marie Luise Rieser, West District; Maria Anna Jankowsky, North District; Theresia Fauster, South District. Sister Smith reports: "Our mission has recently been divided into four member districts. The picture was taken during a recent conference in Vienna, at which the main feature was a planning session for the coming year's activities. The opportunity to meet aS a group once a year has proven beneficial to all districts, since the sisters can discuss common problems and their solutions, as well as share testimonies and enthusiasm for their callings. We all look forward to these conferences as a source of spiritual revitalization. I will miss the saints very much since we are being released." Frieda Marie Huxhold Loscher is the recently appointed Relief Society President. 


 £9 i b7 - a Cincinnati Stake (Ohio) Visiting Teachers Honored at Convention April 13, 1963 Front row, left to right: Phyllis Laney (who has served ten and one-half years); Angelina Jerdon (eighteen years); Ann Wells (eleven years); Hazel Stroup (ten years); Rosa Ban (fifty-two years); Adeline Taylor (twenty years). Second row, left to right: Connie Ban (twelve years); Erma Wolf (nineteen years); Doris Hunt (ten years). Back row, left to right: Juanita Laurents, President, Cincinnati Stake Relief Society (ten years service as a visiting teacher); Ollie Ferris (twelve years). The total years of the service of this group of visiting teachers is 184! Years. Sister Laurents reports: "We feel that this convention was very successful in that it inspired the leaders of our ward Relief Societies to make greater efforts in the visiting teacher program. The wards have many problems to overcome. There are many miles between the homes of most of the saints. Some of the visiting teachers have to travel 100 miles total distance to do their visiting teaching. Many of the sisters do not drive, and most of them have small children. There are some wonderful faith-promoting experiences to be learned from those who are faithful to this work, and some of these experiences were pointed out in our convention. One example is the work of Sister Marcella Roberts of the Northern Kentucky Ward. She has walked a distance of from twelve to fifteen miles, for many years, to do her visiting teaching. "Our convention began with a lovely salad luncheon served by the stake board. It was buffet style. Our tables were beautifully decorated by the sisters of the Cincinnati Second Ward. They used green candle holders filled with yellow daffodils, accented with green satin ribbon, as centerpieces. "After the luncheon, the film 'Unto the Least of These' was shown, and a program given. The two visiting teachers who have served the longest, and are now serving, were honored. They were presented with Relief Society pins by the stake Relief Society president. Lillie McGee, who has served for twenty-two years, and Rosa Bang, who has served for fifty-two years, were the recipients of these pins. Sister Bang gave a talk on 'The Blessings That Have Come to Me As a Visiting Teacher.' "The Responsibilities of a Visiting Teacher' was the subject of the stake Relief Society president's talk. An appropriate musical number, beautifully rendered, by one of our visiting teachers, was given." 852 THEOLOGY e The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 53 — The Bishopric; Parenthood Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 68:7-35) For First Meeting, February 1964 Objective: To examine some aspects of the bishop's calling and also the responsibility of parents to their children, INTRODUCTION Four elders, one of whom was Orson Hyde, came to the Prophet Joseph Smith that they might learn the mind of the Lord concerning themselves. With the assurance that Elder Hyde and the other elders named would be sustained by the Lord in their missionary work as they faithfully fulfilled their callings, it was revealed that there should be no fear in their hearts. They were to declare their testimony of Jesus Christ as the Son of the living God who is yet to come in glory on the earth. MISSIONARY MESSAGE All the faithful elders of the Church are to teach the testimony of Christ and the way that men may accept him as their Savior — by the first principles and ordinances of the gospel. As the disciples of the meridian dispensation were commanded to go into all the world with the message of faith, repentance, baptism in water, and the baptism of the Spirit, so also the elders of this dispensation are to carry the same message. (Matt. 28:19-20; D & C 68:7-9.) 'The promise is given that the elders so endowed with that Spirit would be blessed with signs, and they would also know of the signs of the times that herald the second coming of Christ. (Ibid., verses 10-11.) The saints will know the meaning of the times because the Lord has been kind to us and to all men who will believe the prophets. He who is wise in being forewarned will follow the path of safety by so living that he shall have the companionship of the Holy Ghost that gives 


 peace, comfort, and a sense of security. The world may not recognize the signs that announce the imminence of the Lord's second coming, but Latter-day Saints have reason to neither disbelieve nor fail to understand their importance. In terms of missionary obligation President Heber J. Grant said: The one supreme thing that devolves upon me, upon you and upon every Latterday Saint is the preaching of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, in public and in private, and above all to proclaim the gospel in our lives, by being absolutely honest in keeping the commandments of the Lord (Conference Report, October 1926, page 6). THE OFFICE OF BISHOP The first instruction given that bishops would be a part of the Church organization in this dispensation is found in Section 20:66-67, although these officers are mentioned as officiating in the Church during the time of the New Testament. (Phil. 1:1; Titus 1:7.) Edward Partridge became the first bishop, his appointment being made at the time of the introduction of the law of consecration in 1831. (D & C 41:9; 57:7.) Other bishops and counselors in the bishopric, as well as agents of the Church such as Algernon S. Gilbert (Ibid., 53:4) were appointed as the need arose. At this early period Bishop Partridge presided in Missouri while Bishop Newel K. Whitney officiated in a similar capacity at Kirtland, Ohio. (Ibid., 72:8.) As Paul said anciently, he who serves as bishop is in a good work. (I Tim. 3:1.) President George Albert Smith said this about such a call: 854... There is no position in the Church that will bring a greater blessing to any man than the office of a bishop, if he will honor that office and be a real father to the flock over whom he is called to preside.... I have followed them and seen what their experiences were; they have a very great responsibility, and it takes a lot of their time. But I want to say to you that there is no bishop, nor has there been a bishop in the Church, who has given the time that the Lord expected him to give in looking after the flock and teaching his people and preparing them to do the work, that has not received one hundred percent of the blessings that he labored for, and they will extend to him throughout the ages of eternity. He may not have had wealth, may not have had distinction. He may not have had the honor of presiding over clubs and things of that kind, but if he has done his duty as a bishop, he has been hand in hand with the Father of us all, and everything that he has done to bless his kind is laid up as a treasure in heaven and nobody can take the blessing from him (Conference Report, October 1948, pp. 186-187). BISHOPRIC APPOINTMENTS The office of bishop and calls thereto are stated in Section 68 following the missionary call of the elders mentioned in verse 7. As the Church grew, additional workers were called to take care of the temporal concerns of the members and the Church. (Ibid., 68:14.) These brethren were to be worthy high priests and appointed by the First Presidency. (Ibid., verse 15.) It is explained that a high priest has authority to officiate in all lesser offices of the Melchizedek Priesthood including that of bishop which holds the presidency of the Aaronic Priesthood. (Ibid., 107:13-15.) Since the Aaronic Priesthood is an ap- I pendage to the Melchizedek Priesthood, the elder or high priest may officiate in the offices of that Priesthood. (Ibid., 107:10.) Thus a ward bishop presides over the Aaronic Priesthood of his ward by reason of his ordination and setting apart as the president of the Aaronic Priesthood, and, at the same time, he presides over the Melchizedek Priesthood members of his ward, but not the quorum, because he is a high priest. LITERAL DESCENDANTS From the time of Adam into Moses' period the Higher Priesthood functioned. In the days of Moses, however, Aaron and his sons were set apart as priests in the Aaronic Priesthood which was named for Aaron.

This Priesthood was conferred upon Aaron and his descendants for all time. (D & C 107:13.) We learn in Section 68 that the seed of Aaron have a legal right to the presidency of the Aaronic Priesthood, provided the individual is the firstborn among the sons of Aaron and thus by birthright has the right of presidency. (Ibid., verses 16-17.) When no literal descendant can be found, and up to this time he has not been found, a high priest officiates as the Presiding Bishop of the Church. In the event a lineal descendant were available he would have to receive the requirements set forth in this revelation; that is, he would have to receive the same kind of a call as all other officers in the Church. The claimant to this presidency would have to be designated by the First Presidency and ordained by that Presidency, if he was worthy. A further limitation is put upon LESSON DEPARTMENT such a person in that it would be necessary for him to prove his lineage or to ascertain it "by revelation from the Lord" under the hands of the Presidency of the Church. (Ibid., verses 19-21.) 'These provisions again remind us that the Lord's house is one of order. It would be impossible for the membership of the Church to be deceived in accepting a deceiver who would lay claim to this Priesthood. Subsequently, the Lord revealed that the literal descendant, properly appointed, could act without counselors. (Ibid., 107:76.) Another item concerning the Presiding Bishop given in Section 68 concerns the trial of that officer. Verses 22 through 24 specify that the First Presidency may try him for his membership. The ward bishop is not in the same position, since he may be tried by the presidency of the stake under whose jurisdiction he serves, because he does not hold the keys of the Aaronic Priesthood for the Church as does the Presiding Bishop. MARRIAGE AND PARENTHOOD Marriage and parenthood are commanded of the Lord as necessary to fulfill the purpose of man's creation and also that of the earth. Those who maintain that marriage is not intended by God are not of him. In the foreordained plan of salvation, the spirit sons and daughters of God were destined to come to the earth and receive the experiences that an earth life offers. (D&C 49:15-17.) 'The assumption of parenthood by husband and_ wife entails an obligation of the most sacred kind. When one contem- 


 plates in what measure the blessings or punishments to be received by children in the eternities to come depend upon the training and teachings given by the parents, the tremendous responsibility of parenthood is better realized. OFT-QUOTED SCRIPTURE Because of this responsibility the General Authorities throughout this dispensation have given emphasis to these verses: And again, inasmuch as parents have children in Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized, that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of the hands, when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents. For this shall be a law unto the inhabitants of Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized. And their children shall be baptized for the remission of their sins when eight years old, and receive the laying on of the hands. And they shall also teach their children to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord. And the inhabitants of Zion shall also observe the Sabbath day to keep it holy (D & C 68:25-29). A summary of this commandment concerning parents and children includes the following: Parents are obligated (1) to teach their children the first principles and ordinances of the gospel; (2) to have their children baptized at the age of accountability — eight years of age; (3) to teach prayer; (4) to teach children to walk uprightly before the Lord; and (s) to teach observance of the Sabbath day. What do mean? These admonitions 856 FIRST PRINCIPLES Although faith is one of the first principles of the gospel, it is a gift that may grow as the person develops in understanding and practice of gospel principles. To nurture faith in the child, preparation must be made early when the greatest development comes to the individual. Accordingly, the parent teaches the fundamental principles of faith in Christ, of repentance, of baptism in water, and of the necessity for the Holy Ghost in the person's life. Although the Primary Association has some responsibility to prepare children for baptism, and the Sunday School assists, the first principle remains — the parents are responsible and are never relieved of this responsibility. BAPTISM OF CHILDREN Section 68 sets forth in plain language that eight years is the age of accountability. Before this time the child is blameless before the Lord (Ibid., 29:46-47), and is saved in the kingdom of heaven. Before the age of eight, the child is of that kingdom. (Mark 10:13-16.) The two main purposes of baptism are to receive entrance into the kingdom of God, and to receive remission of sins. In the case of the child, baptism insures full membership in the kingdom, and the opportunity for the remission of sins upon repentance. (D & C 68:27.) If the person at eight or later does not accept the atonement of Christ for individual sins committed after that age, he remains in the bondage of sin. (Ibid., 84:49-53.) By baptism of the water and the Spirit the door ls opened for the person to have the benefits of the atonement of Christ for personal sins through sincere and genuine repentance. (Lesson 49, Relief Society Magazine, July 1963.) There is a class of children and adults who do not require baptism. These are the mentally deficient, for the atonement of Christ satisfies the demand of justice and redeems them without baptism. (D & C 29:49-50; Moroni 8:22; Lesson 20, Relief Society Magazine, October 1959, page 689. ) TEACH PRAYER Fundamental to belief in God and the restoration of the gospel through Joseph Smith is daily prayer. There is probably no one thing that will destroy reverence for Deity and a spiritual life more than to neglect the opportunity to pray. The investigator of the gospel is requested by the missionary to pray that he might learn the truth. 'The indoctrination of children in the habit of prayer will, in a large measure, keep them from error and give testimony growth. Prayer must, however, be meaningful in words and sincere in thought. 'The whole heart is demanded of him who seeks for divine guidance as well as the offering of gratitude for blessings received. If you pray for your needs, then, as President Joseph F. Smith said,. You pray with intelligence; you pray with understanding; you approach the Lord with a knowledge of what you should do, and how you should approach Him, and how you have a right to ask Him for the blessings you need, even to the laying on of hands upon the sick, praying for them, and rebuking disease, that they may be healed under the blessing of the Lord; and that the world does LESSON DEPARTMENT not possess (Conference Report, April 1912, page 8). "TO WALK UPRIGHTLY" Who should teach the children right and wrong, of the blessings that follow virtue, honesty, respect for authority, honor, loyalty to Church and country, attendance at Church meetings, the doctrines of the gospel, faith in the standard works of the Church, obedience to the law of tithing, Word of Wisdom, and temple marriage? Here is what President David O. McKay says that bears upon this question: You may think me extreme, but I am going to say that a married woman who refuses to assume the responsibilities of motherhood, or who, having children, neglects them for pleasure or social prestige, is recreant to the highest calling and privilege of womankind. The father, who because of business or political or social responsibilities, fails to share with his wife the responsibilities of rearing his sons and daughters, is untrue to his marital obligations, is a negative element in what might be and should be a joyous home atmosphere, and is a possible contributor to discord and delinquency (Gospel Ideals, page 477). SABBATH DAY OBSERVANCE As always, the best teaching is by example. How can the parents expect the child to observe the commandments, including the keeping of the Sabbath day holy, and at the some time desecrate that day themselves? The importance of observing this holy day is given emphasis in Section 59 (Lesson 43, Relief Society Magazine, September 1962) and also in this section, verse 29. Although given about the instruction of children, the admonition is for all the inhabitants of Zion. 


 THE RICHES OF ETERNITY The condition of some of the saints in Zion (Missouri) in 1831 is depicted as idle, greedy, and with their children growing up in wickedness. (D & C 68:30-31.) We cannot put ourselves back in 1831, but there was a need for the instructions given then concerning parents and children as outlined in this revelation. With the stepped-up opportunities for wickedness resulting from the automobiles, movies—in and out of the home — false philosophies and theories, the youth of today and the parents may now have greater need for attention to this revelation than in 1831. The counsel of the Lord based upon the perspective of the eternities is: seek earnestly for the riches of eternity (D & C 68:31), and you shall find joy and peace in this life and eternal life in the world to come, for I "shall lead thee by the hand, and give thee answer to thy prayers" (Ibid., 112:10). Remember, "These sayings are true and faithful; wherefore, transgress them not, neither take therefrom" (Ibid., 68:34). QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION 1. In what way can the member of the Church sustain his bishop? 2. Name the five things brought out in Section 68:25-29 concerning the obligation of parents to children. Briefly tell something about each one of them. 3. Why should the Latter-day Saint take the attitude that there is no need to fear in this world of uncertainty and unrest? VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Message 53 —"And They Shall Also Teach Their Children to Pray, and to Walk Uprightly Before the Lord" (D & C 68:28). Christine H. Robinson For First Meeting, February 1964 Objective: To emphasize the basic fact that children reared in righteousness are among life's choicest blessings. Cornewi, daughter of the famous Roman leader Africanus who lived during the second century B. C., was renowned for her great beauty, her wealth, and her priceless jewels. On one occasion when distinguished visitors came to her home, a request was made that they might see some 858 of her most valuable jewels. She excused herself for a moment and returned with her two small sons saying, "These are my most precious jewels." Cornelia reared these sons so well that they both became revered leaders in their country. When a monu- ment was being erected for Gaius Gracchus, one of her distinguished sons, he was asked what inscription should be engraved on the statue for future generations to remember. He responded, "Simply inscribe 'Gracchus son of Cornelia.' " Without doubt, the gift of children constitutes the richest blessing, and at the same time, the greatest responsibility, that come into parents' lives. From Adam's time onward our Father in heaven has reminded us of this great blessing and responsibility and has repeatedly admonished us to teach these children, "to pray and to walk uprightly before the Lord." To Adam the Lord said "Therefore I give unto you a commandment, to teach these things freely unto your children" (Moses 6:58). Although teaching our children "to pray and to walk uprightly before the Lord" has always been of great importance, it probably has never been more urgent than it is today. We live in a fast-moving, complicated world full of pressures, which tend to pull parents and children apart and to encourage children to depart from righteous principles. Satan has never worked harder to enslave and to ensnare.