[Vol50 | November 1963 | Page 860 | Lesson | Visiting TeacChhreirs t iMnees s Ha.g e R o b—i n s"oAnn d They Shall Also Teach Their Children to Pray. . ." | ]
[Visiting TeacChhreirs t iMnees s Ha.g e R o b—i n s"oAnn d They Shall Also Teach Their Children to Pray. . ."]

With perverse advertisements and enticements he is working overtime on our youth, Solomon said, "Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it" (Proverbs 22:6). Undoubtedly, as stated in this scripture, if a child is taught righteousness from birth, he will most likely be a follower of nghteousness always. In the teaching of our children we LESSON DEPARTMENT should remember that they learn best from example and experience. The example we set for them is, without doubt, one of their most forceful motivators to action. If we expect our children to live uprightly, we must set the example of upright and righteous lives. "A father and a little son crossed a rough street one stormy day. 'See, Father,' said the little one, 'I stepped in your steps all the way.' " Experience, too, is a great and effective teacher. If we want prayer to become a fundamental part of our children's lives, we should give them regular opportunities to pray as they grow up. We should kneel with them regularly morning and night, so that prayers will become a part of their very lives. Let us give our children continuous opportunities to express thanks for and ask blessings upon the food. By all means let us all kneel regularly with our children in family prayer. If we are really wise parents we will, through example and experience, teach our children to have faith in our Father in heaven and to counsel with him constantly in all of their hopes, desires, and problems. Love is a fundamental part of righteous teaching. 'The love, consideration, understanding, and interest we consistently show our children, will do much to help them set righteous foundations upon which they will build their lives. Also, as a fundamental part of upright training, we should teach our children to be good citizens and love their fellow men. No effort or activity in our whole livés will bring us such rich dividends as the teaching of righteous- 


 ness to our children. In the words of Solomon, "The father of the righteous shall greatly rejoice: and he that begetteth a wise child shall have joy of him" (Proverbs 23:24). Surely, one of the greatest joys in life is to see our children walk uprightly before the Lord.