[Vol50 | November 1963 | Page 817 | Special Feature | Relief Society to Save Souls Louise | W. Madsen]
[Relief Society to Save Souls Louise W. Madsen]

We feel, however, sisters, that there should be more choruses than this among our more than 5,000 local Relief Societies. We were gratified by the excellence of the choruses which sang at the quarterly conferences during the first and second quarters of this year. We call your attention to the new book, Music Leadership in Relief Society, prepared by Sister Florence Jepperson Madsen. This book offers instruction by Sister Madsen resulting from a lifetime of training and experience in the field of music. The book is available at the General Board headquarters, price, ninety cents per copy. Any woman interested in music will find the book valuable to her. Indian Relief Society Organizations Sisters, within many of your stakes there are Indian Relief Society organizations. The circumstances of the sisters enrolled in these organizations vary, and, correspondingly, their needs differ, both as they relate to guidance and training in their individual and family lives, and also as they relate to the conduct of their respective Relief Society organizations. We must recognize that, in some instances, it is extremely difficult for the sisters to maintain their organizations following all of the Handbook recommendations. Some may be able barely to approximate this, while others may be able to do so in large measure, while still others being able to do so almost entirely. The same is true with regard to the programs of the Society. In some instances, for example, the homemaking program might need great modification over that conducted in our long established Societies, in order that the special needs of the Indian sisters, due to their culture, traditions, practices, and facilities, might be adequately met. The same would be true of the courses of study. In some instances, entirely different courses from those outlined for the Society as a whole might need to be used. We have a responsibility to help these sisters at the point of their needs with patience, intelligence, and understanding. I am sure you recognize that most modifications and adjustments in organization procedures and programs can best be made by the stakes wherein Jndian Relief Societies exist because here there is the great knowledge and understanding of the particular circumstances. Often, the greatest degree of help cannot be given through the stake board functioning according to regular procedures. We, _ therefore, suggest that in stakes having Indian Relief Societies with special needs, a sister with aptitude in working with the Indians be appointed, with the approval of the stake president, to work under the direction of the stake Relief Society president in promoting the best interests of the Indian sisters and in helping their Relief Society organizations to function as effectively as possible in the light of existing conREPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS ditions. Such an appointee would be regarded as "'a sister with a speclal assignment."" She would not be a stake board member. Authorization may be given her to use special courses of study. Where this is advisable the General Board is prepared to make suggestions, at the request of the stake Relief Society president, for suitable subject matter, and shortly will have available for use some lessons which may be simplified or amplified to meet the special needs of the Lamanite sisters. Authorization may also be given for the conducting of a department in connection with the regular leadership meeting for the Indian officers and class leaders. The sister appointed to work with the Indian sisters would keep close to them by frequent visits to their meetings. She would exercise loving watchcare over them. We will appreciate being notified of the name of the sister given the special assignment to work with the Indian sisters. We will also appreciate having the special activities in behalf of these sisters reported in the narrative section of the annual report. The Indian sisters are indeed our sisters, to whom we owe special attention, knowing the divine destiny of this race and our responsibility to it as Latterday Saints. We must be not only helpers, but defenders of our Lamanite sisters. Fund-Raising Relief Society takes pride in the fact that it independently maintains itself financially. The judicious raising of funds and their wise disbursement are regarded as important in the training of Relief Society women. The _ traditional method of earning money for the operating expenses of the Society 


 has been to engage in fund-raising activities which reflect the interests and regular work of the Society and, at the same time, develop the talents and abilities of the sisters. We are noting, however, that questions are being submitted to the General Board with increasing frequency regarding its attitude toward new types of fund-raising activities. Questions indicate a concern as to whether these activities would violate established fundraising regulations of the Society or in any way be. Questionable or unusual. As a guide to you in judging the acceptability of fund-raising activities, a number of which are identified with advertising of products or services of commercial institutions, we offer the following suggestions: The Society should not be placed in a position of being used, virtually, as a selling agent of a commercial institution in promoting the sale of its product, in order that the Society might benefit financially in some way from so doing. Care should be exercised not to place the Society in a position of influencing the sisters to patronize one merchant over another, either as to his product or services, in order that it might benefit financially. In no instance should the names of Relief Society officers or members be released to a commercial institution for solicitation in selling its product or for any other reason. We again caution Relief Society presidents against entering into arrangements with commercial institutions in the publication of books 822 — for example, songbooks, anthologies of verse, or cookbooks — wherein the Society must make certain commitments and where both the Society and the commercial institution share in the _ profits. Before entering into such an arrangement, we urge you to discuss the matter fully with your presiding Priesthood authority. In addition, sisters, we urge that in planning fund-raising activities, presidents carefully weigh the time, labor, and commodity contributions required of the sisters. We suggest that Relief Society presidents carefully review the instruction in the Handbook of Instructions on "Participation in Advertising Programs," page 108, and also the section on "'Funds" in the Handbook, pages 114-118, as well as instructions on funds issued in Official Instructions at past general conferences. We refer you to the following issues of The Relief Society Magazine: Volume 27 (1940), May, page 297; Volume 36 (1949), December, page 808; Volume 42 (1955), November, page 732; Volume 48 (1961), November, page 732. Conclusion Sisters, we are grateful for your wonderful service to Relief Society, for the capable leadership you are giving to the work, for your magnificent accomplishments. We are thankful for your devotion to Relief Soziety and the righteousness of your lives. May the Lord bless you with happiness and success in your Relief Society labors, I sincerely pray. Relief Society Supports the The inauguration of the Home Teaching program in the Church, as of January 1, 1964, marks a significant step in the implementation of the developing program of the Church Correlating Committee.