[Vol50 | November 1963 | Page 833 | Home | Stretching the Food Budget Part III — Peanut Butter Marion Bennion and Sadie | O. Morris]
In planning such programs we refer you to the series of articles currently being published in The Relief Society Magazine under the title, "Stretching the Food Budget." Work Meeting Homemaking arts and_ skills taught at the work meetings are basic to a well-rounded Relief Society program. Homemaking is close to the hearts of women, and attractive, orderly, thrifty homemaking practices are of vital] importance to the well-being of the family. During 1962 there were 611,591 sewed articles produced in the work meeting, and 275,265 nonsewed articles — a total of 886,856 sewed and non-sewed articles — an increase of 125,842. Education Courses The courses of study, including the work meeting discussions, appear to have been well received. REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS There is excellent preparation on the part of both stake and ward class leaders. More than 22,000 sisters are engaged in teaching, either in a stake or ward capacity. Courses of study are carefully planned to meet the needs of the sisters and to accomplish the purposes of the educational program. It would seem that a class leader would feel a deep sense of responsibility to adhere to the lessons as outlined. As in all matters pertaining to Relief Society, it is the responsibility of the president to see that only the reeommended and approved lessons are presented. Deviations from this, while rare, are occasionally reported. For this reason we call this matter to your attention. Nursery The increasing number of mothers enrolling in Relief Society who have young children is making it more and more mandatory upon ward Relief Societies to conduct nurseries. Instructions as to the nature of the nursery program were given at the recent Relief Society meeting held in conjunction with the stake quarterly conferences. We suggest that presidents review these carefully. It is anticipated that further instructions will be given at Relief Society meetings held in connection with the 1964 quarterly conferences. It is the recommendation of the General Board that the nursery be assigned to the education counselor as one of her special divisions of responsibility. The nursery leader should be carefully selected in the light of her great responsibilities. She is not a baby sitter as we have come 


 to regard this service. Rather, she is a leader of a division of the work designed to interest and develop children while their mothers attend Relief Society meeting. Recognition of the importance of this special asignment, appropriately, would lead to a full consideration by the presidency of the requirements made of the nursery leader, and any necessary assistants would be appointed. Appreciation for the service and that of those who assist her would frequently be expressed whether these sisters be paid or volunteer workers. Visiting Teaching Visiting teaching continues as one of the very strong and valuable programs of the Society. Not only is it accomplishing the original purpose for which it was _ established, namely, "to seek after objects of charity," but it is an effective means of exercising watchcare over the sisters in their homes. In addition, it is proving an asset to the Society in its membership-building and fellowshipping programs as well as affording opportunity for new members, particularly new converts and reactivated members, to be participating members of the Society in a very important aspect of the work. During 1962, there were 4,133,- 868 visits made to the homes by 107,252 visiting teachers. This was an increase over the previous year of 190,272 visits and an increase of 7,193 visiting teachers. There was an average of 9.35 visits made to each family in the stakes during the year. Maximum visiting would be twelve visits per family. The faithfulness and devotion of the sisters to this program and the quality of work done by them merits highest commendation. 820 Magazine Magazine subscriptions totaled 201,570 at the end of 1962, an increase of 18,334 subscriptions. This is the largest annual increase in the history of the Society. The General Board is proud of the wonderful work done by Magazine representatives. Singing Mothers Choruses Singing. Mothers Choruses increased by 125 during 1962, making a total of 2,724 choruses at the close of the year.