[Vol50 | November 1963 | Page 839 | Home | Christmas Tot Thoughts | Shirley Thulin]
[Christmas Tot Thoughts Shirley Thulin]

Thirteenth Day The making of chains is a very old Christmas pastime, but a good one for small children. Let the mother mark the paper and have the child cut the small rectangles about one-half inch wide and three inches long. (Colored construction paper is good for this project.) Now paste one strip into a cylinder, and paste the next one _ interlocking and so on to make a chain. He can make the chain as long as his patience will hold out. This is also a hang-it-on-the-tree article. Fourteenth Day This brings us up to Christmas Eve. Let the child weave place mats to use for your Christmas dinner. Take a sheet of green construction paper and cut slits across lengthwise, about one-half inch apart. Cut them to within one-half inch of the edge of the paper so there is a half-inch border all around the sheet of paper. Now, take red colored strips about one-half inch wide, and as long as the green paper is wide, and weave them in and out through the slits in the green paper. Write each family member's name on a mat. 838 CROCHET DESIGNS - Varwus and Beautiful Gertrude Talbot Lister, Salt Lake City, Utah, is an expert with the crochet hook. She has crocheted twenty-seven beautiful tablecloths and lace for many pillowslips. Her crocheted doilies have been much in demand for Relief Society bazaars, and Mrs. Lister has found that her handiwork makes lovely and appreciated gifts for weddings, birthdays, and for Christmas. Her fine and even stitches have enhanced the value of hundreds of quilts and have inspired other quilters to excel in this lovely and useful art. She is a devoted and inspirational member of Relief Society, loving and serving the sisterhood. Sarah Stevens Farmer Sarah Stevens Farmer, Monroe, Utah, has spent her lifetime helping others and has always appreciated beautiful handicraft. Wherever she has lived, and wherever she goes, her pathway has been designed in beauty. Not only has she found satisfaction in designing exquisite articles with needle and thread and crochet hook, but her flower gardens have been patterns of beauty for her sisters in the community to emulate. Mrs. Farmer has served for many years as a practical nurse, offering her kind ministraoa to those in need, and she is known for her good works in the valleys of her home and. 839 Synopsis: Luana Harrington, her husband Ben, his mother Tutu, and the five children live on a pineapple plantation on the island of Maui. Emma Lu, the eldest, has recently returned from San Francisco, where she graduated as a nurse, and became engaged to Sherman Grant. Margaret Lester, Luana's sister-in-law, who lives in San F rancisco, is visiting with the Harringtons. She is an artist and plans to enter an art contest in which Luana is also interested. Luana awakened later than usua! The next morning. Ben had already had his swim with Philip in the lagoon. Now he was dressing in his best dark suit and gray tie, instead of the customary whipcord trousers and aloha shirt, that he wore on the plantation. "Is there a Church meeting?" 840 she questioned as she bounced out of bed to help him with his tie. "I'm off to school with Benjy and Bo," he explained. "This js the day Bo must apologize to his teacher and his classmates. If I go along he'll realize how serious it Is. Otherwise, he might make sport of it. You know Bo." Yes, she knew Bo, Luana thought with a sigh. Bo always climbed the tallest trees, dived after the biggest fish, rode the highest waves, and wanted the most fun out of life. Ben was right. Bo must be made to realize how serious it was. Ben looked at the clock. "Lazy woman!" he laughed. "On your toes now, or we'll all be late." "All right, Sergeant," she laughed back. "You look real handsome this morning." "I feel real hungry," he answered. "Some cereal and eggs will just hit the spot. Ill get things going." "Tll bet Tutu has started breakfast,' Luana told him. "She always does when I oversleep." Minutes later, when she went to the kitchen, the table was set, and hot corn meal was bubbling in the double boiler. Ben, with a huge apron around his waist, was cracking eggs in a bowl. Luana mixed the fruit juice in a large pitcher. "Good morning, my darlings," Tutu called from the lanai. She was pounding breadfruit for poi. Margaret, fresh and pretty in a bright new muumuu dress, was seated beside her. "Last week I used taro roots for poi," Tutu explained. "I made three gallons then. It should be ready soon." "Yes, dear," Luana said. "Don't let it ferment too long. How many gallons do we have on hand?" "Not many," Tutu answered. "A family of eight eats so much. Now, with Margaret, there will be nine of us to eat poi every day." "Count me _ out!" Margaret laughed. "I couldn't eat poi every day. Not even once a week!" "We use it like bread," Luana said. "When I first came to Hawaii I felt as you do, Margaret. It tasted as flat as wallpaper paste. And that awful grayish color! But after awhile..." she smiled again as she shrugged her shoulders, "I accepted it as part of life in Hawaii." "When in Hawaii," Tutu said, "do as the Hawaiians do."