[Vol19 | July 1932 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: Alice D. Pitt Genevieve R. Curtis]
Alice D. Pitt By Genevieve R. Curtis LICE DECKER PITT was A the granddaughter of Presi" dent Brigham Young. Every pioneer daughter has in the album of her heart a picture of that master genius, that pioneer, that revered prophet. Many of his appreciative admirers, however, know but little of his early domestic relations. On October 8th, 1824, Brigham Young was married to Miriam Works, a refined and most estimable woman. She was_ kind and affectionate in her home, and faithful to her friends. They lived in Fort Byron, New York, for five years. This was perhaps the calmest time in Brigham Young's life. It was the lull before the storm. ALICE D,. PITT Here he and his wife lived in peace and happiness, each lovingly caring for the wants of the other, and carefully weaving the threads of joy and contentment into the happy little home nest. Here it was that their daughter Elizabeth was born on September 26th, 1825. She brought sunshine, which was made brighter when five years later Vilate came.
It was that the Gospel was brought to them. After careful study and prayerful reflection they believed it to be the word of God. Brigham was baptized April 14, 1832, his wife three weeks later. A new life seemed opened to them, and both soon became much devoted to their religion. They were not permitted to enjoy the new found happiness for long. Miriam's health failed, and on September 8, 1832, she passed quietly away. After Miriam's death, Brigham and the two little girls made their home with Heber C. Kimball's family.
Alice D. Pitt
In the spring of 1829 the family moved to Mendon, Monroe County, New York. Heber C. Kimball was at that time living in Mendon, and an intimate friendship existed between the two families. Vilate was named for Brother Kimball's wife. It was while they lived in Mendon
In the winter of 1843, Vilate went to Salem, Mass., to attend school. In June of 1844, her father came to see her, and while there the news was brought that Joseph Smith, their dearly loved Prophet, had been foully murdered. Vilate never forgot her father's face when the word came to him. She said he looked as if everything that was dear to him on earth, had been taken away. They returned to Nauvoo at once.
In February, 1847, while the Saints were in Winter Quarters, Vilate was married to Charles Franklin Decker, and in July of the same year she crossed the plains in the second company, arriving in the Salt Lake Valley in October, 1847. The first year after their arrival in the valley they made their home in the old fort with many other Saints. On January 15, 1848, a baby girl was born, bringing joy and comfort to this young and tender mother. Three years later, July 23, 1851, Alice was born.
Her grandfather, Isaac Perry Decker, was born in Holland. November 22, 1800, came to Utah in 1850. And settled on land across the Jordan River, where can now be seen the result of his labors. Her grandmother, Harriet Page Wheeler, was born in New Hampshire, September 7, 1803. She was the eldest of the three women that came with the Utah pioneers. She it was who designed and assisted in making the first national flag that ever waved in the Salt Lake Valley.
Alice's father, Charles Franklin Decker, was born in Ontario County, June 21st, 1824. He came in the second company after the pioneers, and with many others was instrumental in making the desert to blossom as the rose. He started in August, 1851, carrying the U. S. Mail, which he did for three years. He was called many times to go back to meet the incoming Saints, and also assisted the handcart companies through the mountains. He crossed the plains fifty-eight times, before the railroad left Omaha to come west.
