RESUME SIXTH TRIENNIAL TRANSAC-
			TIONS.
	The Sixth Triennial session of the Nation-
al Council of Women of the United States
was held in Seattle, Washington, July 14-16,
1909, with Mrs. Mary Wood Swift, Presi-
dent, presiding. In the absence of both
secretaries, Mrs. Flo Jamison Miller was ap-
pointed to act as Recording Secretary dur-
ing the session. The first meeting was held
in the Auditorium of the A. Y. P. Exposi-
tion and was an executive session for mem-
bers only. Minutes of the Union City Exec-
utive were read and discussed. Mrs. Stev-
ens read report of committee on revision of
constitution, but after some discussion the
report was referred to same committee for
further revision, was to be referred to execu-
tive organizations and complete report made
at some subsequent meeting The
names of Mrs Emmeline B. Wells and Mrs,


[Column 1]
Susa Young Gates were approved as Quin-
quennial Patrons, explanation made that a
Quinquennial Patron was from one Quin-
quennial term to another, and an Inter-
national Patron was for life, but in
both cases names must be approved
by the Council to which the appli-
cants belonged. The name of Rev. Anna
H. Shaw was presented for International
Patron by Mrs. Rachel Foster Avery in be-
half of the National Woman’s Suffrage
Association, and was unanimously approved.
The election of officers resulted in the fol-
lowing: President, Mrs. Lillian M. Hollister;
Vice-Pres., Mrs. Kate Waller Barrett, Cor.
Sec., Mrs. Flo. Jamison Miller, Rec. Sec’y,
Mrs. Emma E. Bower M. D.; Treasurer, Mrs.
M. Josie Nelson. Mrs. Sewall reported the
transactions of the Quinquennial period
while she was International President, were
ready for distribution and could be per-
chased for seventy-five cents a volnme, or
one dollar and fifty cents for both, and
urged all to send in their names to her. The
reports of various committees were read and
approved in Executive Session. Report on
Entertainment of Foreign Delegates read,
and a vote of thanks given the committee
for their work. Report of Treasurer being
printed was referred to auditing committee,
who after examination of accounts reported
accounts found correct and report was ac-
cepted. Report of Press, Local Council,
Catechism Education read and recommend-
ation of the chairman on Education made in
Union City, was reaffirmed. Committee on
Charities and Philanthrophy recommended a
delegate to national Conference of Charities
be again appointed, also that a special
committee be appointed to investigate the
matter of “Old Age Pensions,” both of
which were adopted. Report of meeting of
International Council made by Mrs. Barrett,
Proxy for the President, and was accepted
with much applause.
	Resolutions Committee reaffirmed the
resolutions adopted at last executive meet-
ing, thanks to all hosts and hostesses all of
which were adopted at this meeting with
the additional proviso that the thanks of
the Council for the efforts and kindness
shown by Mrs. Pitt Trimble and Mrs. Mar-
ion Baxter should be engrossed. Bill of
one hundred dollars for printing the pro-
grams was allowed. All unfinished busi-
ness referred to incoming officers, after vot-
ing the expenses of the President and
treasurer should be paid.
	The public meetings were held the first
day in the Exposition Auditorium and was
in the nature of a reception to the foreign
delegates. Welcome was extended by the
Consuls of Norway, France, Germany, Italy,
and England, and responses were given by
Mrs. May Wright Sewall, Hon. Pres. Inter-
national Council, Mrs. Emma S. Hampton,
U. S. Council, representatives from the dif-
ferent Councils. Sweet music was rendered
by beautiful singers, and the spirit of In-
ternationalism was felt by all. On Wed-
nesday, luncheon was served to the Council
and foreign friends by the Federated
Woman’s Clubs. The same day a six
o’clock dinner was given by the Exposition
officers where again good cheer and good
will prevailed. A most delightful reception
was tendered the Council on Thursday
afternoon by Mrs. J. F. Leary in honor of
her guest, our Honorary International and
National President, Mrs. Sewall. This was
greatly appreciated, and the beautiful home
and gracious hospitality will be long remem-
bered. The Federated Clubs, and Chamber

[Column 2]
of Commerce of Tacoma extended an invita-
tion to the Council to visit their city and be
their guests. The invitation was accepted
and a luncheon, drive and most cordial wel-
come was received. The Portland Press
Club extended an invitation to a reception
in the Oregon Building, but from lack of
time could not be accepted. The public
meetings were well attended, reports on or-
ganizations and work accomplished well re-
ceived. The warm hospitality shown the coun-
cil by the Ladies of the Maccabees of the
World and the Women of Woodcraft, in
their bounteous luncheons, entertaining
toasts and gracious attentions made the
courtesy more than pleasant. Seattle was
generous, hospitable and gracious, and the
Council of Women of the U. S. will long
remember its Sixth Triennial.—Com.


