Woman’s Journal, Mass.


No faith is to be given to the stories about
suffragettes biting and scratching police-
men. They are malicious fabrications.
When American audiences come face to
face with Mrs. Pankhurst, they will see
whether she is a woman to do or to encour-
age such things.—Ex.


[Column 1]
		A REMINISCENCE.
	Colonia Chuichupa, Nov. 3, 1909.
Mrs. E. B. Wells:
	DEAR SISTER:—In looking over the years
of our lives we find our memory pictures
among our most precious treasures, sunny
pictures, rainbow tinted, in the realms of
childhood and youth. pictures shadowy with
pain and anguish, tear-stained and pitiful,
yet, oh, how we cling to them through the
days and years that come and go.
	To my stories of such pictures, many
more were added during our visit of the last
six months to kindred and friends in Utah,
and in visiting and passing to and fro in old
familiar places, how many thoughts come
to me, as a flock of sweet singing birds, and
scenes long hidden in the midst of years
appear fresh and bright before me, I need
not tell to you who know so well, what
sacred memories dwell and cling around our
Temple block, and the old walls that shield
it from curious, prying eyes. I am not a
curio hunter, but I brought a piece of the
old time wall home with me to Mexico, for
it is the preface of a book of memory to
me. One day as I stood on the southeast
corner looking at the beautiful new Deseret
News Building, I rememhered one night I
stood there long ago, and watched the old
time Council House fall beneath merciless
flames that left but a smoking pile of ruins,
and then the art gallery of Brother Charles
Savage a victim, too, of the same fierce
element. I can see him walking about amid
the ruins as he did that morning looking
upon the fruits of years of anxious care and
toil swept away in an hour, yet he was calm
and still had a smile and kindly word for
the friends who gathered there that day.
It was a favorite place of mine, for I loved
to look at the pictures and books there.
Once I remember, as I stood before a beau-
tiful picture, choking back the tears it
called forth, he came and said, “Why look
so long upon this sad picture? Here is a
beautiful, more cheery one, look at it.” I
have always remembered the lesson given
in those few words, and how the sunshine
of his great heart was so freely shared with
all who came within its reach. And still as
I stood there, the stately Templeton faded
away and I saw the plain, white home of
Brother Wells, the “Daniel” of the Latter-
days, and I remember one day when he was
weighed in the balance and not fonnd want-
ing. And again, as I looked upon the 
monument of our Brigham Young, with
those grand representatives of pioneer days
grouped around him, they became living
beings to me. Oh, the pictures are many
that hang around that monument. I seem
to hear his voice, as I heard it first in the
old adobe tabernacle, the bowery, and later
the grand new tabernale, still the admira-
tion and wonder of all who see it. Yes, I
seem to hear again his words of encourage-
ment, of counsel and warning, and words of
mighty faith in the great work of God in
these latter-days, and his testimony of the
divinity of the mission of the Prophet Joseph
Smith; and I saw him at rest from his lab-
ors that day when all who knew him

[Column 2]
mourned the loss of a true and faithful
friend and leader. One visit to Ensign with
a company of Temple workers, the words of
inspiration spoken then, with a most pleas-
ant social gathering at the home of a sister
on our return, is something to linger long in
the memory of that little party. Then
again, the reunions of the remaining mem-
bers of the Fifteenth Ward choir, and with
their children, renewing ties of love and
friendship of the spring and summer seasons
of life, to feel again the warm haud clasp
after years of separation was a joy unspeak-
able to me. It was hard for me to go to the
last gathering at Saltair, for I knew it would
be our last meeting. for years, if ever again
in life; but there were fond remembrances of
the past around the table spread with all good
things, and looking out on the beautiful
lake. We were young again, and time’s
finger marks were all swept away. Again we
watched the sun sinking in the waters,
leaving a golden glow upon the tiny wave-
lets, and here I feel to pray heaven’s choic-
est blessings rest upon those who helped to
make our visit so pleasant for us. Of our
days in the Temple I may not write, they
are too sacred to me. When sometimes the
veil of mortality seemed drawn away, and we
could feel the presence of our loved one on
the other side. Again, may God’s blessings
rest upon the faithful workers there, and may
the sweet spirit of peace and love found
within its walls never depart from us.
	Now dear old City Creek claims a re-
membrance, for it sang to me the “Old
Songs” of happy boys and girls, and I
laughed this summer when I saw it
burst the bonds set by man, rushing
onward to the great lake, for it seemed
to me a type of the great Fountain
of Truth flowing on to the shores of eternity,
while the puny arm of man is raised in vain
to stay its progress.
	Do I weary you, dear friend, with my
wandering thoughts? For fear of doing so,
I will close with a prayer for our beautiful
city and her speedy deliverance from all
that would mar or dim her glory.
	As ever, your friend and sister,
