MRS. ADELINE F. FITZ, PRESIDENT-GEN.
	ERAL DAUGHTERS OF THE
		REVOLUTION.
	It often becomes necessary when inter-
preting patriotic personality to search out
all its springs of action to follow up the
links that bind it to a past. The import-
ance and influence of such characters as
played so promlnent a part in the birth of
New England, as those of Mrs. Adeline
Frances Fitz on the paternal ancestrial line:
namely, Lieutenant James Torrey, who took
the oath of office as early as 1633. Captain
Caleb Torrey, who lost his life while drying
the town of Scituate’s stock of gunpowder
during the French and Indian war, Nich-
olas, one of the twelve men who founded
Harvard College with Joan Elliott as pas-
tor, at Roxbury—assisting in the translation
of the old Bay Psalm Book into Indian
verse, John Slade, keeper of the famous
Bite Tavern, opposite Faneuil Hall, Boston
—cannot but be of interest to those who
claim her as their leader. Her maternal
ancestors did not reach the American shores
until after the close of the war of 1812.
Mrs. Fitz has been thoroughly trained along
patriotic lines—she has served two years as
Historian, two years as Vice-Regent, and
three years as State Regent of the Mass-
achusetts Society. She in that time sug-
gested for her society two pieces of memor-
ial work—one as a state work, and one as
a national work—through her energy and
untiring work she saw them completed
while in office. The first was a beautiful
bronze tablet placed in the Boston Pubiic
Library—to the writers of patriotic verse
and songs—and the second the Gateway at
Cambridge—marking the spot where Wash-
ington took command of the American
army. Her latest suggestion, that of the
Annapolis Memorial to the founders of our
navy and the Revolutionary sailor is wel-
comed with even greater enthusiasm by her
patriotic sisters. Mrs. Fitz is the daughter
of David Slade, one of the oldest members 
of the Chamber of Commerce of Boston—
the wife of Judge Frank E. Fitz and the
mother of three sons. Her life work outside
of her family has been devoted to music—
and as a composer of songs she is recognized
as a leader in her home state. Most of her
composftions were produced as a pastime,
or to fit occasions in which her friends were
interested and sought her assistance. They
include a vast number of hymn settings, 
piano solos—and songs for kindergarten and
concert use. She was finally induced to 
publish the songs, and their appearance was


enthusiastically received by the musical
public. Although interested in music above
all other arts, she has fine literary taste, as
is shown by the selections which she has set
to music. Quoting Mrs. Fitz, she says:
“After all, a song is but a happy thought to
music set.” Mrs. Fitz is also the writer of
four lectures on different subjects in the
world of music. Mrs. Fitz comes to our
state in the interest of her organization—the
Daughters of the Revolution. She is also a
member of the Professional Woman’s Club
of Boston. and of the Kosmos Club. of
Wakefield, Massachusetts.		Ex.


