DR. TALMAGE’S NEW BOOK.
	A new book by Prof. James E. Talmage
has just been published by the Deseret News
entitled “The Great Apostasy” “Considered
in the Light of Secular History.” It is a
book containing valuable information and
will be of great interest to students of re-
ligious history and to those who reason on
Scripture subjects, and in fact to both men
and women who desire to comprehend relig-
ious conditions as they have existed in the
past, without reading so many books, that
take more time than people of the present
day can afford, therefore the work will be
useful and acceptable in giving correct know-
ledge that can be relied upon by those whe
teach and instruct others, and who must of
necessity deal specifically with facts that can
not be controverted, but will stand the sever-
est critisism as to accuracy.
	Elders who preach the gospel at home or
abroad will be benefitted and instructed by
reading and digestiug this work; the book is
unique in style and fills a place in our Church
literature that no other author has undertaken
to deal with. It is finished in its literary com-
position and must hold a high place among
the sacred classics.
	It will perhaps not appeal to the ordinary
reader generally, as it will require depth of
thought and concentration to appreciate its
full meaning and application; but it will be
invaluable to those who must cope with
grave questions in the light of sound reason-
ing. The book contains 176 pages, and is
divided into ten chapters; and the contents
give one a good idea where to look for a
given subject.
	A brief preface tells the reader in a few
words some important facts that would
make one desirous of looking further into
its pages.
	The book evidences careful research that
has required much time and effort to compile


and arrange in such admirable order. The
subject is dealt with philisophically and from
a Book of Mormon standpoint as well as Bib-
lical history connecting the two most import-
ant and reliable books of inspiration and
prophecy of the past.


