	Mrs. Adeline F. Fitz, President-General
of the D. R. Society at large, with head-
quarters in Fifth Avenue, New York City,
arrived in this city as expected on Thursday
afternoon Nov. 11, and was met at the Rio
Grande depot by the Regent, Mrs. Alice
Merrill Horne, with automobile, and a few
of the members, who welcomed her to the
city and escorted her to the home of Mrs.
Maria Y. Dougall to dine and rest before
the evening reception.
	The reception was an exceptionally bril-
liant affair, given purposely to introduce
Mrs. Fitz to the D. R. members and their
friends. The Farnsworth home was brightiy
illuminated and the colorc of the D. R.
Society were tastefully carried out in the
elaborate decorations. The host and host-
ess, Mr. and Mrs. Farnsworth, were most
cordial in welcoming the guest of honor, and
the invited company; and the ladies arriving
in time, the Regent, the hostess and the
President-General, with several of the offic-
ers and members, welcomed and introduced
the gentlemen and ladies to the distin-
guished guest of honor.
	Later on there was a song recital by the
President-General, who is a musician, and
Miss Irene Kelley, a pupil of Prof. Hugh
Dougall, rendering exquisitely the songs of
Mrs. Fitz, who is a song writer and com-
poser of both words and music, and it was
her delineation that gave tone to the enter-
tainment. The program was very select
and high class, both in purity of style and
adaptability to the occasion, a delightful
variety, in fact, that was harmonious and
uplifting instead of the monotony of small
talk that often becomes irksome. The lady
read between the songs and music, and her
voice was very full-toned and clear and rich
in expression of sentiment.
	The dining room was brilliant with charm-
ing young girls who served refreshments
with grace and ease of manner, meanwhile
music was softly playing in a distant room
of the stately home. There were no disap-
pointments, and all was managed so perfect-
ly as to insure pleasure and variety.
	Mr. and Mrs. Farnsworth, the Regent,
Mrs. Horne, and the committee in charge of
affairs are to be congratulated on the per-
fect success of the entire evening’s entertain-
ment.
	Friday morning the D. R. ladies, with
Mrs. Fitz and the Regent were due at the
State University in time for devotional ex-
ercises, and after singing America and a
few words of welcome by President Kings-
bury, the President-General addressed the
college students in a very pleasing style, her
remarks were appropriate and well chosen,
powerful and replete with telling anecdotes.
	After the exercises some of the ladies
visited several of the University departments
and a delicious luncheon, served under the
direction of the Dean of Domestic Science,
Miss Lucy Vun Cott which was thoroughly
enjoyed, and the conversation between Pres.
ident Kingsbury, Prof. Marshall and Mrs.
Fitz was calculated to give her a good idea
of higher education in Utah.
	The State Regent, Mrs. Horne, President


[Column 1]
General Mrs. Fitz, and members of the D.
R. went direct from the University to the
Saltair depot, where they were joined by in-
vited guests of ihe party, Governor Spry and
wife, Hon. John Henry Smith and wife,
Senator W. N. Williams and wife, and other
gentlemen and ladies, a car full. The day
was fine, though rather too cold for bathing,
but the pavilion and its setting is a novelty
in itself, and is one of the unique features of
our “mountain retreat.” There was an hour
for getting acquainted, and Mrs. Fitz, who
has traveled extensively, seemed delighted
with the company, the scenery and the view
of the Dead Sea of America.
	The next place to be visited was the his-
toric Lion House and Mrs. Fitz was shown
over this famous dwelling piace, built in
early days by the great pioneer, Brigham
Young. In the room where pioneer relics
were, Mrs. Zina Y. Card explained to Mrs.
Fitz concerning the interesting articles on
exhibition.
	Afterwards the ladies repaired to the hall
up stairs where a banquet was given in
honor of the Prosident-General. There were
twenty of the D. R. members, including the
guest of honor herself. The table was hand-
somely decorated in the Society colors, rib-
bons, flowers, place cards and all the pretty
appointments neatly arranged. Mrs. Maria
Y. Dougall offered in a few words a blessing
on the repast, and each lady in turn read the
sentiment on her place card, which was a
pleasant opening to “table talk.” Later the
Regent, Mrs. Horne, introduced the toast-
master, Mrs. W. N. Williams, in a very grac-
ious way, with a humorous address, quite
original and characteristically amusing.
The toastmaster responded in an equally
happy and genuine manner, receiving ap-
plause from the ladies present. Mrs. Wil-
liams called upon Mrs. Dougall to give some-
thing of the drama and amusements in early
days in Utah, which was given in the most
delightful and edifying way imaginable.
	Mrs. P. T. Farnsworth was the next to re-
spond, and her toast to the pioneers is given
in full on another page. The second Vice-
Regent, Mrs, Lund, gave a brief resume of
“Early Education in Utah,” very impressive
and interesting, summing up in brief much
important matter truly significant of the
struggles and difficulties of pioneer teachers
and the great efforts made by the people
who settled this Rocky Mountain region.
	Mrs. T. G. Webber gave the D. R. Society
in her own characteristic way; it was a
strong appeal, setting forth the nature and
benefits of the General Society and what it
had done in the last few years.
	(Mrs. Webber’s speech on another page.)
	The editor of this paper had been asked
to give the welcome to the President-General
which she did in a few loving and gracious
words—stating it was the first time any of
the General Officers had visited us, and that
we felt greatly delighted and honored in
having so grand and queenly a woman in
our midst as our President-General, Mrs.
Fitz.
	The President-General responded most
lovingly in genuine appreciation of rhe kind-
ness and honors shown her, the hospitable
entertainments, and that she should remem-
ber with pleasure the visit and the Society,
hoping we would gain in members and
strength and would soon have a Junior So-
ciety in which she had been Director-Gener-
al for two years, and was greatly interested
in the organization; her address was compli-
mentary to the Society and replete with
good wishes for success.

[Column 2]
	The banquet was a  delightful affair, as
were all the functions given for Mrs. Fitz and
we trust she realized how glad we were to
have the opportunity of honoring the Presi-
dent-General of the D. R., and that we ap-
preciated her fitness for the position she oc-
cupies and her charming personality; her
musical talent, aside from the high office she
has been called to, would endear her to
Utah people, who are known the world over
as music lovers.
	Saturday morning the State Regent, Mrs.
Horne, and members of the Society accom-
panied Mrs. Fitz to the Tabernacle, where a
special recital had been arranged for her by
President Joseph F. Smith, Prof. McClellan
at the great organ.
	Ai 12 p. m. a luncheon in her honor was
given to the State Regent and officers of
the D. R. at Mrs. T. G. Webber’s residence.
Covers were laid for twelve and the decora-
tions were most artistic and up-to-date in
every detail, as well as the sumptuous re-
past.
	After the luncheon at Mrs. Webber’s we
had the pleasure of a call at this office from
Mrs. Fitz, the President-General of the D.
R. Society, the State Regent, Mrs. Horne,
and Mrs. Dougall, at whose house Mrs. Fitz
has been entertained in the city as an honor-
ed guest, and the writer had the pleasure of
dining at Mrs. Dougall’s Saturday evening,
and conversing with Mrs. Fitz an hour or
more until a party of us accompanied her to
the theatre, as we were anxious she should
see the Salt Lake theatre, built by Brigham
Young, the great pioneer in promoting
amusements for the people.
	Mrs. Fitz left Sunday at 12:10, Nov. 14,
1909 for the east via Omaha, Milwaukee
and Chicago, expecting to reach her home in
Wakefield, Mass., in good time for Thanks-
giving.
	Her stay in Salt Lake was very enjoyable
and, we hope, profitable to the Society she
represents, and we wish her success and a
prosperous and successful administration,
as well as joy and happiness in all her var-
ous pursuits.


