D. R. TOASTS.
	Delivered at the Daughters of the Revo-
lution Banquet given at the Lion House,
12th November, in honor of Mrs. Fitz, Presi-
dent-General of the National D. R. Society.
	The Pioneer Women of Utah came of a
fine, patriotic line of ancestry, many of their
forefathers, their grandparents were of the
old stanch colonial patriots who came to
America as early as 1830, and a few even at
a period prior to that. Their progeniters
held positions of trust in church and state,
were in the Revolution as officers and sol-
diers,and fought at Lexington, Bunker Hill,
Cowpens, Stillwater, Bennington, Quebec,
Saratoga; were with Washington at Valley
Forge the memorable winter of 1777 and
1778, in fact, all through the Revolution
until the surrender of Cornwallis at York
Town. Our Pioneer Women in connection
wtth the men of 47-8 suffered the privation,
want, almost starvation incident to their


long three months’ march across the deso-
late untraversed plains west of the Mississ-
ippi to the Valley of the Great Salt Lake.
They helped to lay the first connecting link
between the Great East and Far West,
which made travel safe and emigration sure.
They carded, spun and wove the cloth that
protected and clothed their families, they
cooked, sewed, washed and made their
homes comfortable and always gave a cord-
ial welcome to the stranger within our gates.
They, in some instances helped plant and
harvest the crops, and although many of
them had been well educated and tenderly
cared for all their former lives, in times of
extreme danger on the frontier they guarded
their homes and babies from the attacks of
marauding Indians, while husbands and
sons were in other parts, providing food or
in the discharge of duties.
	Like our Colonial Dames, our Revolution
Grandmothers, they gave their strong sup-
port, iheir heart’s love, hope, faith, fidelity
and patriotism in colonization work, in
helping establish the great commonwealth
in this western wild of America.
	God bless their memories, and may we,
their daughters and granddaughters, never
do ought that will desecrate, mar or cast a
shadow upon the character of our true, hon-
orable, heroic mothers, the Pioneer Women
of Utah.
		JULIA P. M. FARNSWORTH.
					U. S. S. Historian.


Toast given at the Lion House, Nov. 12,
1909, by Mrs. Mary E. R. Webber:
Madam Regent, President-General and
	Daughters:
	It is my happy previlege this evening on
behalf of the Daughters of the Revolution of
the State of Utah to speak of our Society.
Since the birth of the General Society, some
sixteen years ago, it has grown and multi-
plied and spread over the full extent of this
great American continent, and has become
a great force in the land. It has promoted
the spirit of patriotism in every loyal heart,
—not only in the parents, but in the child-
ren. It has filled them with a spirit of loy-
alty to our country that has no equal in
any other land on earth. It has bound to-
gether the hearts of every true American
citizen as with bands of steel. The General
Society stands for and represents true pat-
riotism, for is not every member a lineal
descendant of a patriot, one who stood for
liberty, or death—and the aim of the Society
is to in some way commemorate their brave
acts by placing monuments and tablets on
the sacred spots where heroes fought and
died. This, and to perpetuate in the hearts
of the people America’s independence is its
life work; and while we, the Daughters of
fair Utah, have no hallowed ground to tread,
or sacred spots to mark, we give our aid,
our love and our loyalty to the General
Society; may it forever remain true to the
cause for which it was organized; and may
its power in the land for good continue to
increase until every true American woman
will say, as Webster said at the laying of
the cornerstone at Bunker Hill mouument:
“I was born an American; I shall live an
American; I shall die an American.”


Mrs. Charlotte Perkins Gillman has brought
out the first issue of her bright new maga-
zine, the Forerunner. It is full of original
and suggestive matter, and all of it is writ-
ten by herself, even the advertisements.—Ex.


