WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORT
			NEBO STAKE.
	Minutes of the Quarterly onference of the
Relief Society of Nebo Stake, held at Lake
Shore, Sept. 24, 1909.
	Conference convened at 10 o’clock a. m.
President Eliza J. Dixon presiding. Sing-
ing; prayer; singing, and other usual exer-
cises. Sister Serena Yond, president of
Lake Shore spoke a few words of welcome.
Sister Kapple made the response of wel-
come and spoke of the Relief Society work
as being organized by the Prophet Joseph
Smith. Felt thankful for the testimony she
had of the truthfulness of the Gospel. Sis-
ter Dixon spoke of the organization of the
Church, how perfect it is; there are organi-
zations for all from the child up, where they
are instructed in the Gospel. The sisters
are expected to look after the morals of the
sisters and encourage the brethren to good
works; spoke on the work of the teachers
visiting and taking care of the sick and
needy, and laying away the dead, we should
be thankful that there is an organization to
look after these things. Let us be faithful
and keep the commandments of the Lord.
Sister Monk reported Palmyra Ward, forty
members enrolled, doing a good work, and

[Column 2]
helping the missionaries. Sister Yond re-
ported Lake Shore in good condition, bore
her testimony.
	Hymn by the choir. An exercise was
given by Sister Crook on parents’ class
work, subject “Motherhood.”
	Duett by Mary E. Berry and Gwen Huff,
entitled “Daughters of Zion.”
	Sister Brown who has been called to
labor in the Primary spoke for a short
time; said her interest was still in the Re-
lief Society, feels that the Spirit of the
Lord is with us today, if we are sincere the
Lord will answer our prayers and we can
all gain a testimony for ourselves if we
work for it and pray to the Lord.
	Brother Joseph Tanner spoke a short
time on shirking the responsibility of rais-
ing children. Related a circumstance of a
brother’s spirit leaving his body, and the
condition he found himself in, he was in
debt and was permitted to come back and
pay debts; spoke of his trip to Canada, and
some of the conditions there: how well
meetings were attended, and the good feel-
ing that prevailed. Conference adjourned
until 2 p. m., by singing.
	Benediction by Sister Eliza A. Hawkins.
	Afternoon session: Conference recon-
vened at 2 p. m., President Eliza J. Dixon
presiding. Singing; prayer; singing, and
usual exercises.
	Sister Hawkins made a few remarks
on her trip to California and her visit to
the branch of the Church in Los Angeles.
Song by Sister Hortense Anderson entitled,
“I need thee every hour.”
	A lecture was given on spiritual growth,
how knowledge comes, by Sister Evans.
	Bishop Argyle spoke on the sick being
healed by administration. Spoke of the
power our sisters have in administering to
the sick. Said we are preparing ourselves
for the second coming of-the Savior.
	Recitation by Sister Lizzie Huff, entitled
“If we knew.”
	Sister Kapple said we only gain by the
knowledge we get. We should train our
children by our own examples as mothers,
if we are humble and faithful the Lord
will bless us and we will be guided right
and know what to do when our children are
sick. Spoke of the blessings that are prom-
ised us if we keep the word of wisdom;
also on keeping our records correctly.
	Brother Francis spoke on Relief Society
work. Sister Dixon made a few closing
remarks, and thanked the people of Lake
Shore for their hospitality.
	Conference adjourned for three months
by singing and benediction by Elder Nath-
an Clayson.
			ELIZA A. HAWKINS,
							Cor. Sec.


[Column 1]
			AUTOBIOGRAPHY.
[LIFE AND TRAVELS OF NANCY M. TRACY.]
		(Continuation from page 26.)
	If we did not taste the bitter we could not
prize the sweet. Let us keep God’s com-
mandments, and trust in Him and work out
our salvation.
	But to return to my narrative. It is now
winter and in consequence of the trouble,
not much preparation for comfort, let alone
preparing for another move. Yet Brother
Joseph Smith would often send cheerful
messages to the Saints, suffering as he was,
telling them to get away as fast as they

[Column 2]
could for there would be no chance for him
and his brethren as long as one remained.
Imagine our feelings to leave the state, and
leave our Prophet and brethren in a cold
dungeon, and food loathsome beyond de-
scription placed before them of which they
could not partake but leave we must, and
as fast as the people could they started.
	I think it was on the 1st of March we
started to Illinois, for this was the direction
in which the Saints were traveling. My
husband fitted up our conveyance, the best
he could; which was a cart with a bed sheet
for a cover, and one horse. He was a noble
animal and did his part well. We called
him Prince. But after he had taken us
safely out of the state he lay down and died.
	I could not describe our suffering on this
journey. Five of us in this small convey-
ance, we could not take anything but our
bedding, a little clothing and food. It
stormed incessantly on the road. Some-
times we could travel no more than five
miles in a day, and when we got to the
Mississippi bottom, which was several miles
it was almost impossible to travel for mud
and water. At night we would gather brush
and sticks to lay our bed on and then be-
fore morning be drenched to the skin.
	At last we reached the river; having money
enough to pay for being taken across. We
had been three weeks on the road. We
crossed at Quincy and went up the river a
few miles, stopped for awhile to rest, and,
as I have stated, our horse died. So we
stayed in Adams’ county one year before
going up to Nauvoo; raised a small crop in
this placo, enough to live upon the winter
we stayed there.
	There were five families of us in this
place that had come from Missouri and
shared in persecutions. Three families of
the Tippits and Brother G. Perry. We en-
joyed ourselves with one exception: Brother
John Tippits lost his wife there, and that
cast a gloom over us all for a season, for she
was much esteemed by all of us for her
goodness. In the spring Brother Alva Tip-
pits loaned us a horse to go to Nauvoo.
	I will not attempt to give details of the
brethren’s escape from prison. Suffice it to
say, they got to Nauvoo before we did.
Providence had worked out their deliver-
ance, after the Saints had left the state and
they had been six months in that horrible
prison. Well, here we were again, not con-
quered in spirit, but determined to live our
religion and stand by the principles of the
Gospel and build up the kingdom of God.
	The people here in Illinois seemed hospit-
able and willing to give us a resting place,
but how long would they feel like this, time
alone would tell. It was a very sickly place
here, especially for children. We got a city
lot and built a comfortable log house at the
foot of the hill near the street that led up to
the Temple lot. We sold this place to
Brother Woodruff and took another lot one
block south of this, and were enabled to
build a better house—a frame with two
rooms.
	My fourth child, one born after we got
to Nauvoo, died in this house when he was
one year and eight months old. After his
death I took up a school and taught a term
of three months. This took up my time and
passed off the summer. Work on the Tem-
ple had commenced and the basement story
nearly completed. Elders were being sent
out to the nations to preach the Gospel, em-
grants were coming in from different parts
of the earth and the kingdom was rolling
on.
	About this time the Relief Society was


[Column 1]
organized with Emma Smith as president,
Eliza R. Snow secretary. I joined this So-
ciety. It was for the Relief of the poor and
for every noble purpose that came within
woman’s sphere of action. We had such
good instructions given in our meetings.
Sometimes Brother Joseph would come and
instruct us. Once in particular I remember
his opening the meeting with prayer. He
was full of the Spirit of God. His whole
frame shook, and his face shone and looked
almost transparent. This was about the
time that the celestial order of marriage
was revealed to him, and he had taught it
to a few who could bear it. But I heard
him say at one time on the stand, in the
grove on the brink of the hill, where they
held the meetings: “If I should make known
to these, [turning to those that sat behind
him] who pretend to be my best friends
what God has revealed to me, they would
be the first to seek my life.” Among those
that sat there were William Law and Wil-
liam Marks, and surely those men turned to
be his most bitter enemies, although they
had pretended the greatest friendship.
	It was not all sunshine here in Nauvoo,
the clouds began to gather thick around.
Brother Joseph was arraigned many times
before the law, but always was cleared of the
charges against him. It seemed no man was
harassed as he was; and for what reason?
Because he was a prophet raised up in this
wicked and perverse generation to be an
instrument in the hands of God to lay the
foundation of his kingdom on the earth; and
ws read in holy writ that in like manner they
persecuted the prophets before.
	To return again: Now we had an offer to
sell our home again; this time we realized, I
think it wns $225.00. It was all cash this
time. We now went up on the hill near the
Temple, and bought one quarter of an acre.
It was a beautiful location. In front to the
east lay the public square; on the south the
Temple and Main Street, called Mullholland
Street. Here, we thought would be our
home, and we would move no more. My
husband did his own carpenter work. He
built us a good frame house here, with
three rooms and a good cellar. I enjoyed
living in this house very much. I could
look over to the temple and see the work-
men at their work and hear the click of the
hammer from morn to eve, and their sailor
songs as they were pulling the rocks in
place with pullies; and I thought it de-
lightful.
	One day I looked over to the Temple and
saw a large crowd gathered at the north-
east corner. I thought I saw some females
in the crowd, so I put on my bonnet and
shawl and went over. Brother Joseph
seemed very busily engaged. The crowd
around the corner stone was so great that I
could not at first imagine what was being
done. At last Brother Joseph said,
“Brethren, stand back, and let these sisters
come and see for themselves.” There were
three of us. Sisters Whitney, Cahoon and
myself. The brethren gave way and we
went up to the huge rock, and in the center
was a square box chiseled out, I think some
over a foot square, and about the same
depth and lined with zinc. In this Brother
Joseph had placed the Bible, Book of Mor-
mon, Doctrine and Covenants, Hymn Book,
and other Church works, as well as the
newspapers—the Times and Seasons and
the Nauvoo Neighbor, that were printed in
Nauvoo,-and money that had been coined in
that year. These things were all laid in
this box, then a lid of stone cemented down

[Column 2]
and the house built on the top of it. This
made me think of the prophets in ancient
days hiding up records to come forth in fu-
ture generations. But I never had any ex-
planation, but supposed it was for some
wise purpose.
	This building progressed with great rapid-
ity, and I was present when the capstone
was laid. The Saints turned out to hear the
last ring of the trowel on that house and to
hear the address delivered on this occasion.
During the building of that structure the
brethren had a great deal to contend with,
hecause the people in the state were getting
more hostile towards us all the time; but
the Lord held them at bay until the house
was finished. The Lord accepted it at their
hands.
	Previous to this the Prophet Joseph Smith
had written his views on the powers and
policy of the government, and they were
printed in pamphlet form. The elders that
were sent out to preach the Gospel were
counseled to take this work with them, and
present it to the world. My husband was
among the number, and took this work with
him. He was to go to the state of New
York, consequently would go and visit his
birthplace before he returned. I had a great
desire to go with him and stay among our
relatives until he fulfilled his mission. He
went and asked counsel of Brothers Joseph
and Hyrum. They told him to take me
along and I should prove a blessing to him,
so he received his instructions, and we
rented our house and started.
	Our course was along the Mississippi river
on the steamer “Osprey” to St. Louis, and
on the “Robert Fulton” down to the mouth
of the Ohio river and up that rlver to Pitts-
burg, then by rail and canals until we
reached Buffalo, where we took a steamer
down the lake Ontario and landed at Sack-
ett’s Harbor, about the 25th of June.
	We were now within twelve miles of
Father Tracy’s. My husband walked eight
miles to his brother-in-laws, Samuel Mattison
and he, with his team came after us, brought
us to his house that night, and next day we
all went to Father Tracy’s and met with
a cordial greeting amongst our relatives in
general, having been absent ten years, we
had been visiting and enjoying ourselves for
one short week, and behold the heart-rend-
ing news reached us of the murder of our
dear Prophet and Patriarch, who so short
a time before had instructed my husband
concerning his mission and had come down
to the boat to see us off. Could it be true that
those noble men had sealed their testimony
with their blood my husband was so stricken
with the blow he could hardly bear up and
the cry was now, “Your Church will go to
nothing now, your leaders are killed,
they did not comprehend the prophecy con-
cerning the kingdom of God in the last days,
and that God was able to raise up another
to stand as a mouthpiece from Him to His
people, but now it was truly a gloomy, sor-
rowful time in Nauvoo. These men gave
themselves up to be tried with a pledge of
the state that they would be protected; but
the result is too well known. The plan was
concocted from the official head down to

[Column 3]
the lowest demons that committed the dark
deed. And this in our boasted land of lib-
erty that our fathers fought and bled to re-
deem from under the iron yoke and would be
permitted to worship God as they chose and
as their conscience should dictate, but where
now was protection from mob violence and
persecution? How often have the Latter-
day Saints sought for redress to the rulers of
this land, but they turn a deaf ear to our
entreaties. But surely the day is at hand
when God will allow the Saints to triumph
over their foes and so we will leave them in
the hands of God, for he says, “Revenge is
mine; I will repay.”
	I will return to my narrative. Before we
went east, my husband was in the employ
of one Amos Davis, a merchant in Nauvoo,
and had been for one year and a half, and
when he settled up with him, he very gen-
erously presented my husband with a suit of
broadcloth, with hat and fine boots, and
myself a dress pattern, said he regretted to
part with him, and when he returned if he
wanted employment he could have his place
back.
	While we were in New York my husband
preached the Gospel and baptized two, also
advocated Brother Joseph’s views on the
powers and policy of the government. We
bore faithful testimonies to our brethren and
relatives and in the spring bid our friends
farewell to return again to our home in Nau-
voo. We landed at the City of the Saints
the twelfth of August on Sunday morn-
ing, but O how lonely it seemed! Our
Prophet and Patriarch were not among the
Saints in person, but that day his spirit
rested upon Brigham Young and as the
mantle of Joseph fell on Brigham it seemed
that the voice and every gesture was like
Joseph and he was sustained as prophet,
seer and revelator by the voice of the people.
	After we got back to Nauvoo, my young-
est child, two years and two months old,
was taken very sick and only lived two
weeks. This was two children I had buried
in Nauvoo. They were laid side by side,
and were about the same age. They were
two fine children, but it seemed almost im-
possible to raise a child in Nauvoo.
