HENRY BROWNE BLACKWELL.
		(Continued from page 32.)
	He was instrumental financially in founding
the Woman’s Journal, Boston, Mass., in 1870,
and was nearly 40 years on the editorial
staff; it has been one of the most efficient
aids in woman’s work ever since its first
issue and is far the best woman’s news
paper in America. His last editorial ap-
pears in the issue of Sept. 11, in which ap-
pears the notice of his death. The subject
deals with the question of different methods


of work for suffrage in England and Ameri-
ca. Mr. Blackwell was always an old-line
Republican in principle, and had voted for
every Republican president. It is impos-
sible to even barely mention the many
enterprises he had engineered and the cour-
age and tenacity with which he persevered
under great difficulties. Mr. Blackwell was
a member of the old Literary club of Cin-
cinnati to which Rutherford B Hayes and
Ainsworth R. Spafford late Librarian of
Congress and other men afterward promi-
nent belonged, and was one of a group of
young men who were instrumental in bring-
ing Ralph Waldo Emerson and Theodore
Parker out to the West to lecture.
	The death of Wm. Lloyd Garrison fol-
lowed only five days after that of his life
long friend Mr. Blackwell, Sept. 12, 1909,
but was not so unexpected as he had been
failing for some months. Like his father
his home was always open to the field
agents and lecturers on anti-slavery, woman
suffrage and kindred reform movements, a
universal and all around reformer. He de-
manded justice and equal rights for all regard-
less of sex, complexion or nationality. He
might easy be termed a radical, supported
Home Rule in Ireland, was active in the
Anti-Imperial League, denounced the war
with Spain and conquest of the Philipines.
Mr. Garrison worked earnestly for the Arme-
nians and Moors. The single tax movement
had his most hearty sympathy and support.
He had a finished literary style in all his
works, an omniverous reader of books and of
current periodical literature, fond of poetry,
sometimes indulged in writing verses as a
sort of pastime.
	It is impossible to give an idea of this
remarkable man in a few words, but it is
said of him “That he never set his hand to
a bad cause and never turned his back on a
good one.” He was modest unassuming,
and sociable and had a world-wide circle of
friends in his own country and across the
sea. It is said he was intensely sympathe-
tic and generous to the needy, and most un-
selfish in all the relations of life.
	In accordance with his request no funeral
services were held and the simplest possible
casket contained his remains. He leaves a
wife (the niece of Lucretia Mott), five chil-
dren and six grandchildren.
	A memorial meeting will be held in his
honor at which representatives of the
reformatory movements in which he was an
active worker will participate.	E. B. W.


