WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT.
			OGDEN STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of the Ogden stake convened in the
Relief Society Hall at Ogden on the 19th
day of July, 1909.
	The morning session commenced at 10
o’clock.
	There were present on the stand Counselors
Isabel Foulger and L. Letitia Richards of
the Stake Presidency of the Relief Society
and all members of the Board with the ex-
ception of President Sarah M. Taylor who
was unable to be present. Of the brethren
there were President Thomas B. Evans of
the Stake Presidency and Elder George E.
Ferrin of the High Council.
	Counselor Isabel Foulger presiding. After
excuses, roll call and prelude, prayer was
offered by Sister Reast, and the usual exer-
cises of singing, minutes, etc.
	Counselor Foulger welcomed all present
and trusted that we might have an enjoy-
able time while together. Referred to the
significance of the day to the Relief Society,
it being thirty-two years ago today since
President Brigham Young met with the Re-
lief Society in Ogden, organizing them into
a stake. the first womans organization, with
Sister Jane S. Richards appointed president,
also inaugurating the quarterly conferences,
which have been so prolific of good. Re-
gretted that Sister Richards was too feeble
to be with us on this occasion. Stated that
our visitors from the city would arrive later.
	Reports from nine of the ten associations
were given, all denoting activity and growth;
the Mother’s work especially was growing
in favor and was the means of bringing
many young mothers into the society. The
poor and the aged were being tenderly cared
for and the careless and indifferent were be-
ing visited.
	The secretary’s report showed that weekly
meetings were held uniformly throughout
the stake and that one hundred and eighty
visits had been made to the associations,
by the members of the Board during the
eleven month’s existence of the Ogden stake.
Officers meetings were held monthly with
an average of 60 per cent attendance. As a
beginning we are not discouraged; although
we see much to be accomplished yet we are
learning “To labor and to wait.”
	President Evans had greatly enjoyed the
spirit of the conference, commended the sis-
ters for their punctuality for he realized that
the mothers in Israel had much to do. 
Spoke of the deplorable conditions existing
among our young people and wondered
whether the Relief Society was reaching the
mothers, for until we reach the mothers we
can never reach the daughters. Prayed the
Lord to bless us that we might be able to
minister to the spiritually sick and afflicted
for our mission is to save souls. 
	Sister Harriet B. Harker of the General

[Column 2]
Relief Society Board said our field of labor
is broad, there is nothing good or praise-
worthy but belongs to the Relief Society,
nothing good or great that we may not do.
Regarding the training of the child “preven-
tion is better than cure;” watch your chil-
dren from infancy. Every home properly
organized is a power for good in the com-
munity and when we have learned to rightly
govern our own we are qualified to help
others.
	Elder George E. Ferrin of the High Coun-
cil had greatly enjoyed the excellent things
he had heard but realized that not what we
hear but what we put into practice tends to
our growth and development.
	Sister Ida Smoot Dusenberry of the Relief
Society Presidency spoke on respect for the
aged. Paid a glowing tribute to the life and
labors of Sister Jane S. Richards, that great
woman who has done so much for the Relief
Society cause not alone in Weber county
but throughout Zion.
	The congregation sang and the benedic-
tion was pronounced and morning session
adjourned.
	A luncheon was prepared and served by
the sisters of the 7th ward and a social time
was had during the interval between meet-
ings.
	The afternoon session convened at two
o’clock.
	Counselor Foulger presiding.
	Prayer was offered by Sister Mary A. Jost
of the Stake Board.
	Counselor Ida Smoot Dusenberry of the
General Relief Society spoke at some length
on Mother and Child, pleading with the
mothers to start the training of the child
early and not to wait until “too late.” Real-
ized the great need of the home mother, and
yet there are times when we need to get out
and learn the needs of the community and
of the world; other souls are struggling with
problems as well as ourselves and perhaps
we have something that others have not and
therefore our Father requires us to co-ope-
rate and to bless and strengthen each other
and has given us the Relief Society as a me-
dium and it stands as a monument of virtue
and purity. Prayed the Lord to bless the
mothers in Israel that they might better
understand their children and that as a so-
ciety we might band together and do a little
preventive work in the community.
	Sister Harker of the General Relief Society
Board commended the work of the teachers.
Said they are the back-bone of the society;
their responsibilities are great but they can
get the spirit of their work, the spirit of dis-
cernment, by entering into their closets and
calling upon the Lord. Spoke of the Relief
Society Nurse Class and urged the neces-
sity of sending our girls that they might
qualify themselves for intelligent nursing.
	President Evans asked the Lord to help
us to apply all that had been said this day,
that we might be worthy examples before
our children and before the world.
	Counselor Foulger desired to be a power
for good in the midst of Zion. Trusted that
all would be stirred up to greater diligence
through the teachings given this day. Felt
that we had been richly blessed in having
our sisters from the General Board with us
and that their teachings would be a stimu-
lus to greater exertion and nobler efforts.
	The congregation sang “God be with you
till we meet again.”
	The benediction was pronounced by Pre-
sident Evans, and the conference was ad-
journed for three months.
			NELLIE BECRAFT, Secretary.


