WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		ALPINE STAKE.
	The quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society of Alpine Stake was held at Lehi,
July 28, 1909. Meeting commenced at 10
a. m., President Rebecca Standring presid-
ing. Meeting opened by singing, “Come,
come, ye Saints.” Peayer by Brother Wil-
liam Southwick. Singing,
	President Standring greeted the sisters
and announced that we had with us Sis-
ters Susan Grant and Hattie B. Harker of
the General Board. Was pleased to re-
port the Alpine Stake as doing well. Our
sisters are faithful and energetic in all their
work. “It is useless for me to speak of
our Stake Board, they are very dear to me,
every one of them. We have never had
any trouble since the stake was organized.
The spirit of God is here, and I pray that
His blessings may rest upon all who take
part here today.
	Four of the wards were reported by their
respective presidents, all united and willing
to do whatever they are called upon to do.
United, and have a good attendance at
their meetings and have the blessing of God.
	Stake Counselor Annie C. Hindley felt to
say a word in regard to Sister Standring,
that she is well qualified to teach and coun-
sel her sisters now as ever she was since the
came here in early days and has grown with
the work. Since this stake was organized
she has been a mother to this society, and
has the love and confidence of all the sisters.
The love and union of our sisters in the
Board is equal to that of David and Jona-
than. We have a noble set of women in
the presidents of our wards, and we as a
Stake Board love and appreciate them, for
they respond to every call that is made upon
them. Felt to encourage the counselors to
be always ready to assist the presidents in
any work required of them. Our sisters
are hard working women, they have much to
do, but we learn by doing. Felt to com-
mend the labors of our presidents, it rests
upon them to work out the lessons, and we
should be prepared to help all we can.
	Singing by the Relief Society choir,
“Beautiful Isle of Somewhere.”
	Sister Susan Grant was always pleased to
meet with the sisters, spoke of her long ac-
quaintance with Sister Standring. Told of
the severe sickness of her son, and of his
being healed through faith and prayers, and
thonght that the faith and prayers of the
sisters had much to do with his healing.
She had been President of the Stake where
she liyed for 25 years. Loved to meet with
the sisters and rejoiced in the interest the

[Column 2]
brethren take in the Relief Society. This
is a very great and important work that we
are engaged in, but if we trust in the Lord,
and do our duty we shall be able to over-
come by faith and prayer.
	Sister Harker said, “Many of you have
made sacrifices to come here today, and I
realize that I am not the one you expected
to see, but I came because I was sent, and
am in sympathy with the Society. We are
sent here with a purpose, to fulfill a mis-
sion to multiply and to bring spirits into the
world. The subject of raising children has
been avoided by the majority of women,
but if this subject had been taught when I
was raising my children, I believe that I
could have done much better. Every Relief
Society president should do all she can to
bring young mothers into this Society.
Fathers are called away from home a great
part of the time, but a true mother will
have the love and confidence of her child-
ren, her sons as well as her daughters. The
children should think that there is no place
like home, where mother is. We not only
desire our own children to be bright and
shining lights, but we can do much for our
neighbors.” Spoke of the two thonsand
young men of the Nephites, taught by their
mothers who overcame the great army of the
Lamanites. We cannot plant faith in the
hearts of our children, unless we have the
same faith in our own hearts.
	Meeting adjourned, after singing, and
benediction by Sister Sina Chipman.
	A nice lunch was served during the
recess.
	Afternoon session commenced at one p.
m. by singing, “Count your blessings.”
Prayer by Sister Emma Featherstone. Sing-
ing, “Scatter seeds of kindness.”
	Sister Sina Chipman of the Stake Board,
spoke of the duty of teachers. Wc are
proud of our sisters of the Relief Society,
What a power for good we can be when we
are united. What a great amount of good
the teachers can do if they go before our
Father in humility and ask for His aid and
assistance. Teachers should be well versed
in the principles of the Gospel, There are
many souls hungering, not for bread, but
for sympathy, for words of love and kind-
ness, and our teachers can give these. Teach
those you visit the importance of training
the children in the principles of the Gospel.
Let them feel that your visit is a joy and a
comfort to them, cheer up the sick and dis-
tressed. The teachers are a band of earnest
workers, and I pray the Lord to bless them,
and to bless us all, that we may do better
in the future than we have done in the past.
	Sister H. A. Harker said: “When I look
over this gathering I need not ask if the
sisters of Alpine Stake are interested in
Relief Society work. Your presence shows
it. Many are hungering after the seeds of
kindness, and the teachers can give this.
The sisters can pour out their troubles to
each other, but we should be very careful
and hold that confidence sacred, and never
let one word drop in the other houses that
we visit, but guard it as a secret. We de-
sire to become intelligent beings, we have
been placed upon the earth for this pur-
pose. We should not only attend our
meetings, but it is our duty to help with the
program, and be prepared to discuss the
subject in hand. Mothers must be progres-
sive. Plan our work and do it systematic-
ally, then we will have time to study and
attend to our duties. There is no excuse
for ignorance, but we progress not
so much by what we hear as by what we do.


Many through the visits of the teachers
have been led to see the condition they
were in, and turn and renew their dili-
gence in the Church. Let us do unto
others by being charitable to those who may
have taken the wrong course and try and
lead them back to the straight path.
	Singing, “Jesus, lover of my soul.” by the
Relief Society choir.
	Sister Harker spoke a few words on the
Nurse classes, advising the sisters who can
to take advantage of the offer made by Dr.
Roberts, so the people may have an oppor-
tunity of securing good nurses when in need
of them.
	Sister Susan Grant congratulated Alpine
Stake on such a good attendance. Re-
membered President Bathsheba W. Smith
and Sister Wells to the sisters, and urged
them to subscribe for the Exponent, that
was the organ of the Society. “I feel happy 
in being here, I have enjoyed these meet-
ings immensely. In blessing others you
are blessing yourselves. I was first a teacher
in the Relief Society. We had to go a
mile and a half to every meeting in early
days, and a long distance to walk to visit
our district. Teachers should be the best
women in the Society, and be able to talk on
any principle of the Gospel. A teacher’s
office is very important. Members, too, are
important, and it is our duty to mind that
we are present to answer to roll call. I was
acquainted with the Prophet Joseph Smith.
I was twelve years old when he died, and
can remember him and how he looked. The
pictures we see of him do not do him jus-
tice. He was a much finer looking man
than they show him. He was full of love
and kindness to the people. He was hunted
all his life, and his enemies thought when
they took his life that that would end Mor-
monism, but that was not the plan of God.
I know that each of our Prophets and Presi-
dents have been and are men of God, and
in the right place. The Church is beauti-
fully organized, and we must honor those
who are over us. We all have some faults
let us overlook them in others, and love and
sustain each other.”
	Brother A. J. Evans of the Stake Presi-
dency, rejoiced in the testimony of Sister
Grant, “for I honor the Pioneers, not only of
Utah, but of the Latter-day work. Spoke
on charity,” and quoted from the Book of
Mormon. Charity is the pure love of
Christ, let us think of this. You sisters
have your part to perform in the drama of
life. May the Lord bless sister Standring
in her high position, and all of you, that
you may be exalted in His kingdom. And 
I bless you in behalf of my brethren in the
name of Jesus.”
	President Standring also blessad the sis-
ters in the name of Jesus.
	Singing. Benediction by Sister Clark.
Conference adjourned for three months.
