EDITOTIAL NOTES.
	As it is nearing the close of the year and
many of the subscribers to the WOMAN’S
EXPONENT are delinquent in their payments,
some even several years behind, it seems
positively necessary to remind them—no
doubt in most instances it is forgetfulness.
It is something that the editor of this paper
very much dislikes to do; most papers and
journals are largely maintained by adver-
tisements, but this paper depends entirely
upon the subscription, one dollar a year from
the sisters. We trust this notice will meet
with the approval of our patrons so that we
may be able to meet all expenses at the 
close of the year.
	The delegates from the N. W. R. S., Mrs.
Alice Merrill Horne, proxy for the President,
Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith, and Mrs. Eliza-
beth S. Wilcox, delegate, attended officially
the triennial session of the National Coun-
cil of Women of the United States, held in
Seattle, Washington, July 14-16, and were
very cordially welcomed and allotted every
privilege due to the society they represented,
and in fact they were graciously received
at all the grand functions given in honor of
both the National and International Coun-
cils. These two ladies, Mrs. Horne and Mrs.
Wilcox, in company with their husbands,
visited Victoria and Vancouver previous to
the opening of the Council, and enjoyed the


trip very much and especially the scenery.
Returning to Seattle, they met the distin-
guished party of gentlemen and ladies of
the International Council from abroad, first
at a magnificent banquet given in their hon-
or at the Empress Hotel; they were in time
to hear the program of toasts which must
have been exceptionally brilliant and a very
great pleasure. Mrs. Horne says “I enjoyed
it so much meeting my dear Frau Marie
Stritt, Dr. Alice Saloman and some of the la-
dies from England, Scandinavia and Belgium
that I had met before and some new people.
It was a magnifcent occasion and the day
was beautiful, perfect.” Mrs. Horne and
Mrs. Wilcox were privileged to attend all
the functions given and had excellent oppor-
tunities of conversing with the cultured
women of the world, who are engaged in the
highest educational and philianthropic work,
for the betterment of society and humanity.


