Teach Your Toddler Gospel Truths
Margery Cannon = A young mother leaving for a week-end trip, deposited her eighteen-month-old baby in the arms of his grandmother. "Thanks, Mom, you're a dear. Oh, one more thing. Before you feed him, would you please put his little hands together and help him say a simple blessing on his food. We have family prayer with him at night, too. If you and Dad wouldn't mind kneeling by the side of his crib for prayers he's used to it. I think it would help him feel more secure." As her daughter disappeared down the driveway, the grandmother thought about the request. What wise parents they are, she decided. A habit in the making at eighteen months will be a way of life at eighteen years. She couldn't help but contrast her daughter's philosophy with that of the young mother next door. "I'm going to work until my baby is two and a half. Before that time babies don't really understand who you are or what life is all about, anyway." President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., once stated: "... The Lord has made clear in his revelations that, from earliest infancy, children must be taught in the principles of the gospel and in the doctrines of the Church, else 'the sin be upon the heads of the parents.' " Right now, the most significant research in the area of child development concerns the earliest months of life. Many psychologists believe an individual's progress throughout life may depend on what he has learned before the age of four. And they tend to agree that, once past these sensitive early years, a child will never again learn with the same naturalness and ease. Teaching moments with toddlers are ever present if we could just be aware and take advantage of them.

When our daughter Merilee was just two years old, she, along with her brothers and sister, knelt in prayer while my husband administered to me. The next morning I was well. At the dinner table, three days later, Merilee didn't want to eat. I noticed she was feverish. "Mommy," she said thoughtfully, "when you were sick, Daddy prayed for you and you got better." I nodded. Then she added, "Mommy, Daddy pray me." So her daddy administered to her, and the following morning she was up and well. Merilee is now ten years old. She still carries a fervent belief that prayers are answered.

When our seventh child was three or four months old, before he even knew the meaning of words, I began teaching him the most important truth of all— that his Father in heaven loves him, and Jesus loves him too." Words were prayers. Conviction that He is my Father and Jesus loves me, too," were repeated over and over, almost as if we lived and breathed them. Surely they would sink into his little mind one day.

Not exactly, but was a beginning. They teach the gospel to our little ones so eagerly and willingly associate words with loving actions. And if we teach the gospel truths rightly, surely they will understand. When our older children have grown tall, they will depart from us, but we put colored pictures of Jesus loving the child in their rooms: Surely they will not only see them but also understand.
 
The Song Lingers After the lark has ascended like a silver waterfall, ever-berating a melody over ledge and stone— even before the mate's sweet answering call. And I awake to memories: There was another hill Another love "SONG as vibrant and as sweet as this. Every sunlit rill— every gentle whisper of a lover's kiss, Nor would I for your voice—your mile—your touch The delicacy of springtime, the fragrant notes The road green valley below We loved so much, the blue forget-me-nots you picked for me to wear. Oh, take back the distant dreams On't let me know This hurting loneliness that another Spring has brought On't let heart be broken because a lark sings— On't let me stop to pick a small blue forget-me-not.