Woman's Sphere of Influence
Ramona W. Cannon
Sarah Isabelle Merrill Tanner, wife of President Nathan Eldon Tanner of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints, was presented "The Woman of the Year" Award at Ricks College, Rexburg, Idaho, in March. John L. Clarke, college president, cited Mrs. Tanner for "her outstanding life as a wife and mother, and for her service to the Church and to others." In accepting the honor, Mrs. Tanner spoke of the "ingredients for the rearing of a successful family as prayer, faith, obedience, and love."

Belle S. Spafford, General President of Relief Society, and President of the National Council of Women, was given Brigham Young University's "Woman of the Year" award March 3, 1970, and was cited for her outstanding accomplishments in leadership and her eminence in the work of women throughout the world. She addressed the student body and was presented with a quilt made by members of the campus Relief Societies.

Women, after a sixty-year tradition of "men only," are now to be admitted to membership in Sigma Delta Chi, the United States' national journalism society. Mary Ann Efroymson is a member of "Law Students in Court," a unique group sponsored by five law schools in the Washington, D.C., area. Seven seniors from each university serve as counsel to defend citizens who cannot afford an attorney. Mary Ann is one of the few women among the thirty-five. A graduate of Wellesley College, she now attends George Washington University Law School. Students and lawyers find this experience of much value.
 
Mrs. Dorothy C. McKenzie, of the English Department of California State College, is a specialist in library science. She says most worthwhile books are "ageless" and it is a mistake to do so much classifying of books as for children, for adults, and for all ages in between. An outstanding example is the keen enthusiasm of college students everywhere today for J.R.R. Tolkien's wonder fantasy "The Hobbit," supposedly written for children. Mrs. McKenzie advises mothers to have a book of poetry on a table at all times. She assures us that children will pick it up, read it, and develop a taste for poetry.

Mrs. Virginia Knauer, special assistant to President Nixon on consumer affairs, receives from two to three thousand complaints from consumers every month and is working hard to have the quality of services and products improved in America.

Miss Bene Arnold, from San Francisco, California, ballet mistress for Utah's highly praised Ballet West, teaches classes, "polishes" every ballet presented, and restages many works very creatively. She began ballet lessons as a child to help her to overcome glandular tuberculosis, which frequently kept her in hospitals. Now, fortified by this experience, she teaches classes for disabled children, helping them greatly with her patience and understanding.

Bess Myerson, television personality and Miss America of 1945, is New York City's Commissioner of Consumer Affairs. She is giving up her broadcasting and promises "a vigorous campaign against cheating and defrauding."
 
Cradle Sonnet: Phyllis Davidson

My heart leaped when I saw it first in the window of the furniture store.
It stood out among the other cribs, its cherrywood aglow from the rockers to the carved heart on the headboard,
And I wanted that baby cradle more than I had ever wanted anything before.

Don't misunderstand me. I am as modern as any other suburbanite.
I read all the magazine articles titled "How to Have a Happy Marriage,"
I do not nag my husband, and I know it is smart to wear pale lipstick, and curls on top of my head.
My house is decorated in second-hand contemporary Danish,
And yet I wanted that cradle so much I could feel my fingers tingle.

The salesman said "$97.89." It did not discourage the tingle I felt,
So I arranged my forces for the attack on the family budget.
I dressed my little girls like angels and set my hair, and when Bert came home,
He found us and supper waiting, looking like an advertisement from a magazine.

My husband is a fine man, tall, quiet, and generous. He ate his banquet without comment,
Responded with grunts and nods to my cheery wit, and retired behind his newspaper as soon as possible.
Only at bedtime when I told him about the cradle did he start talking.
"A hundred dollars for a baby bed? You are crazy!" "But, Bert, I tingle for it," I protested.
"Tingle away, then," he snorted. "It will make life very interesting for you.
Besides, we have a perfectly serviceable baby bed, and I just paid fifty dollars for that fender you smashed last month."
I winced. Some things, like burned potatoes and smashed fenders, a husband never forgets.

"Besides," he added, "you could use it only for a few months,
Then what would you do with it? You would have to have a dozen more babies
To get your money out of something like that." "Well, I could always make it into a planter or magazine rack
Or something like that." My voice faded away.
He jammed both his fists into his pockets, and I knew a lecture on finances was coming.

So we discussed money far into the night, and all the time I tingled.
I still tingled the next morning, so I kissed Bert goodbye and sent him off with cheer.
I could see he was relieved and thought I had forgotten the cradle. But as soon as he left,
I sat down to consider. Bert could not object as to how I spent my own money,
So I would have to earn some. I would have to do something on my own.

When Bert came home, he found me lettering posters saying "Washing and Ironing Taken In."
He looked at the posters for a moment, then without comment walked out of the room.
When he returned he was loaded to the eyebrows with shirts, socks, underwear,
And a few miscellaneous items. He dumped them on the signs. "Your first customer," he said,
"Nonpaying, of course." His back shook ever so slightly as he walked from the room.
I suppose he was chuckling, but I was furious with myself for blushing
As I looked at the pile. I put the signs away.

I was about to read Debby and Pam their bedtime story when the idea struck.

"Don't read us a story," Pam pleaded, "tell us one." I often made up stories for them about their favorite toys, and as I told them the story that Cradle Song night, my eyes traveled along the rows of storybooks on _ their shelves. I wondered how much money the authors made. The tingling started again. The children enjoyed the stories I made up for them even more than the stories in their books. Would other children enjoy them? Would a publisher's story editor like them? Next morning, after sending the girls out to play, ignoring the dishes and unmade beds, I rolled a clean piece of paper into my typewriter and sat staring at it. Half an hour later I was still staring at it. A few crossed-out lines of type stared back. A few days later, a pile of papers lay by my _ typewriter. They were marked over until they were almost illegible. I prepared a final copy, and, not daring to read it over one more time, I gathered it together with a paper clip and sent it off to a publisher. Things were back to normal as far as my family was concerned. They no longer ate cold suppers and slept in unmade beds. But I was not normal. My heart beat double-time every time I saw the mailman coming, and I tore at every envelope that came from New York City, which usually turned out to be an advertisement or discount catalogue. "It was just a way to kill time," I explained to Bert, trying to sound casual, and threatened to leave him if he ever told a soul. He had been awed by the whole thing. Often I would catch him looking at me as if he could not believe it was his wife who was writing a book. He read the 347 manuscript and proclaimed it head. I laid it on the desk, not explain to him how I felt. "It is most peautiful baby boy in the not just the cradle," | said, and world lies tucked under 4 small it was true. J had not throught patchwork quilt in the heart of the cradle in weeks. The cherrywood cradle, and that "J want to do something special tingle mingles with pride 9 special, something creative. 1 when I look at them. Was that really it? His boy than if 1 had written "Do you suppose the bookthe Great American Novel. He stores would give it a special must have known how I felt, and display?" Bert asked. When I came home from the "Oh, Bert, it is just a little hospital and saw the cradle in child's book. Perhaps qa write-up the nursery, | knew the depth of in the newspaper though," 1 mut his understanding. I still get the mured. Jittle tingle every time I give the Then the envelope came; with cradle a rock, but somehow it the expensive printing and letterisn't quite the same.