How Many Ways to Stroganoff? ROUND STEAK STROGANOFF 2 Ibs. Round steak 1 10¥%2-0z. Can consommé Yc. Flour Y2 soup can water 1 tsp. Salt 1 bay leaf 1 tsp. Paprika - 1 tsp. Italian seasoning Yc. Salad oil 1 can whole mushrooms, drained Y2 c. Chopped onion 1 c. Dairy sour cream Cut meat into bite-sized pieces. Dredge in a mixture of the flour, salt, and paprika. Heat oil in skillet, add meat and brown, then add onion and sauté until barely tender. Add consommé, water, and seasoning. Cover and turn to very low, and simmer 45 minutes to 1 hour (or until meat is tender). It may be necessary to add a little more water as meat cooks. Stir in mushrooms and sour cream just before serving time. Heat briefly, and serve over rice. Serves 6. Because of the cream soup in the following recipe, it takes some extra watching as it simmers. As its name implies, however, the flavor is superior, and worth the extra watching. "SOUPER" STROGANOFF 1% Ibs. Round steak, cubed Ya tsp. Garlic purée flour to cover meat 2 beef bouillon cubes dissolved dash pepper in 1% c. Boiling water Y%4 c. Butter or margarine - 1 can cream of mushroom soup 1 can sliced mushrooms, drained 1 c. Dairy sour cream 1 medium onion, chopped noodles, as desired Dust meat with flour and pepper, then brown in butter in hot skillet. (Do not salt meat, as soups add sufficient.) Add the mushrooms, onion, and garlic purée, browning lightly before stirring in bouillon and soup. Cover with tight fitting lid and simmer for 1 hour, watching carefully, and stirring often. Gradually blend in sour cream just before serving. About 20 minutes before the Stroganoff is ready, begin cooking noodles, so Sauce does not stand after Stirring in sour cream. Serves 4-6. Discover another easy, easy way to Stroganoff when you use the sour cream as a topping instead of a sauce. For a really new touch, add dill pickles to the sour cream. TOP-NOTCH STROGANOFF 1 Ib. Ground beef 2 cans cream chicken soup 2 Cc. Onions, sliced thin 1 4-0z. Can mushrooms 2 tbsp. Butter 1 c. Dairy sour cream 1 tsp. Salt ¥Y2 c. Chopped dill pickles paprika Brown the ground beef and onions in butter. Add salt, then undiluted soup, and mushrooms with liquid. Cook over low heat until hot. Serve over two cups quick rice Prepared as directed on package. Top each serving with sour cream mixed with Pickles, and sprinkle with paprika. Serves 6-8. You can even whip up a Stroganoff casserole when you are caught without a supply of sour cream. Just use this recipe which has a surprise substitute for the sour cream. BURGER BUTTERMILK STROGANOFF 4 oz. Noodles Y% c. Catsup 1 Ib. Ground beef 2 tsp. Worcestershire sauce 1 medium onion, chopped (or less to taste) Yc. Flour 2 oz. Can mushroom bits pepper to taste and pieces ¥% tsp. Salt 1% c. Buttermilk Cook noodles according to package directions. Drain. Meanwhile in skillet combine ground beef and onions. Cook until meat is well-browned and onions are tender, stirring frequently. Take from heat and blend in the flour, pepper, and salt, then add catsup, Worcestershire sauce, mushrooms with liquid, and buttermilk. Mix well, then add cooked, drained noodles and stir again until mixed in well. Turn into 1% quart casserole and bake 25-30 minutes in a 350 degree oven. Top with mild cheese slices if desired, and return to oven until melted. No Stroganoff repertoire would be complete without a few recipes featuring the homemaker's handy helper—hamburger! The following recipe is almost faster than opening a can, but you can't tell it by the results. SPEEDY STROGANOFF 1 lb. Ground beef 1 can cream of mushroom soup 2 tbsp. Green pepper, diced 1 tbsp. Worcestershire sauce 2 tbsp. Onion, chopped ¥% c. Dairy sour cream Brown ground beef in enough shortening to keep it from sticking to pan, adding green pepper and onion when meat is almost done. When beef is richly browned, and green pepper and onion are tender, add soup and Worcestershire sauce, stirring until well blended. Stir in sour cream, and serve immediately over hot Chinese noodles, rice, or mashed potatoes. When you are in the mood for something more original—this is it—Meatball Stroganoff with a most unusual ingredient in the meatballs. Add cocoa for a delicious new flavor combination that rates approval from everyone. ALSACE MEATBALL STROGANOFF 1 Ib. Ground beef 2 tbsp. Butter 1 tsp. Salt 1 c. Diced onion 3 tbsp.

Flour 1 2-oz. can sliced mushrooms 1 tsp. Cocoa 1 c. Hot water 1 c. Dairy sour cream Add salt to the ground beef, and divide into 16 balls. Combine the flour, and cocoa and roll balls in mixture until evenly coated. Fry meatballs in the butter until well browned on all sides, meanwhile adding onion to skillet so it can be cooking at the same time. Add mushrooms with liquid, hot water, and the remaining flour and cocoa, stirring constantly until mixture thickens to gravy consistency. Turn heat to low, and blend in sour cream. This is especially good served over fluffy brown rice. Serves 4.5. There is room in the Stroganoff sphere for lots of imagination, so let yours soar. How about cube steaks instead of round steak for speedier preparation, or hamburger patties marinated in a sour cream sauce? You will find many other tempting possibilities. Perhaps you will even make Stroganoff cookery your specialty! 
rr a yr? 5 ' A; Phe Kranj Wonder
Helen Hinckley Jones = Deep in underground caves in Yugoslavia lives a remarkable fish— the Kranj Wonder. For two hundred years men have seen this queer creature that looks something like an eel and something like a lizard, but only recently have they even guessed how strange the proteus anguinus really is. Scientists knew that the fish lives only in very cold water in underground caves, that it has colorless skin, occasional scales, atrophied legs with three toes on the front feet and two on the back; that it has large, round sightless eyes, and a flattened tail, oval toward the tip. What they didn't know is that the Kranj Wonder gives birth sometimes to eggs and sometimes to live offspring—the only known creature to do this remarkable thing. Scientists had recovered eggs—and argued they were not live young; peasants had seen infant fish and argued that they were not eggs. Two ichthyologists, Kramer and Nusbaum of the Ljubljana Institute finally solved the riddle. Live birth takes place when the water is below fifteen degrees centigrade; eggs are ejected when the water is warmer. No doubt ichthyologists will be studying the special organs that make this impossible thing possible.

I only mentioned the names of the scientists and the technological institute so that you would know I wasn't "putting you on," not because I intend to enroll in the institute or assist these men in their research. I would rather think about people and how different their responses are in a warm environment and a cold one. Most of us don't live in dark caves, isolated from the world, even in self-made caves. Most of us aren't sightless unless we fit the description "none so blind as those who will not see." But we know the difference between warmth and coldness, and we respond even though our environment is modified by a hundred different influences.

For many years I have observed children and young adults. This doesn't make me an expert, simply an experienced people-watcher, but this I have seen over and over again. A cold environment fosters a lack of appreciation, lack of interest, lack of love, gives birth to distressing attitudes of inner conflict, self-depreciation, antagonism, withdrawal. A warm atmosphere encourages the birth of such attitudes as friendliness, cooperation, a sound self-image, self-acceptance, love, and compassion.

Years ago I was having trouble controlling a high school boy who preferred performing antics to looking in a book or participating in discussion. One afternoon I talked with him, his long legs folded awkwardly under a classroom desk. At first he was reluctant to confide in me. Slowly, almost tentatively he began to respond.

"Derrick," I said (this is not his real name but will indicate his national origin), "I want you to write the first words that come into your mind when I say school teacher history... Father."

The words that came into his mind for school, teacher, and history didn't surprise me. "Boring, dull, long, useless." What really chilled me were the words he wrote in response to father. "Leather belt, pain, hate, kill."

When I read back the words he had written he said, "Well, it's true. I do hate my father, but I don't blame him for treating me like he does. I'm no good. I'm dumb. I'm stupid. It'd be better if I was dead. I'm nothing but a big ape."

Tears came into his eyes and he was angry at me for seeing them. I didn't mention his classroom behavior. It didn't take a psychologist to tell me that his antics before his peers were absolutely necessary to him if he was to cover his deep sense of inferiority.

How could this boy ever feel that he was a "child of God," how could he ever walk in the world with self-confidence and faith? At that time I didn't know the story of the proteus anguinus, the Kranj Wonder. Just the same I knew that Derrick was living in a dark cave in mighty cold water penetrated only now and then by a shaft of warmth and light. And I knew that I must be such a shaft if I could possibly grow big and warm enough to qualify.

I am thinking of adults as environment-makers. But sometimes children make our environment, too. One evening my five-year-old grandson said, "I wish I had someone to hear my prayers," his sweet undemanding way of making a request. I took his hand and we went together to a quiet room. He knelt by my knee.

"Heavenly Father, thank you for our beautiful world. Thank you for our beautiful Church. Thank you for our beautiful grandma...."

Beauty is a feeling to Sean rather than something that pleases the senses. I know right well how un-beautiful I am, but to be linked with the world and the Church in this loved child's thoughts made all the "water" around me warm and pleasant and lighted up my whole personal "cave."

Far away in Yugoslavia in cold water caves lives the Kranj Wonder. Just around my corner lives someone who is waiting for me to find reason for praise, an opportunity for an expression of appreciation, a genuine word of love.

I believe I'll leave the proteus anguinus to Kramer and Nusbaum.
 
Hattie B. Maughan

With love and nostalgic memories I have just set the last stitches in two "Beddy Dupeys." They are destined to find their way into the loving arms of two of my expected posterity, a first great-grandchild, and a latest (I refuse to say last) grandchild.

In case you do not know what a Beddy Dupey is (you won't find it in Webster's Unabridged), it is a baby quilt. But not just any baby quilt. It must have been cuddled and chewed upon and cherished until it has a character of its own and has been christened by its owner as Beddy Dupey, Pilt, Blanky, or some other endearing name.

Our youngest daughter who is about to present us with our twenty-fifth grandchild (only five are hers) gave the name Beddy Dupey to her quilt.

Others of the children called theirs "Pilt," "Blanky," or simply possessively "Mine." Because of the exclusive ownership of a Beddy Dupey it can never be passed on from one child to another. As the lengthening limbs of a child make the baby quilt obviously too short or too narrow, it is still cherished, smuggled into bed, wrapped around a kitten or a puppy, or just embraced as a loving, old-time friend. Since it will be a coverlet for an infant, it must be as soft and downy as a baby's cheek but, since it will also be expected to grow up with the child, it should be as durable as a pair of denims. I have chosen for my quilts a good quality outing flannel. It is dainty but colorful, tiny pink and blue flowers on a white background. The general effect is blue, but there is a sprinkling of pink so either sex may possess it and conform to the customary color for either a boy or a girl. It is filled with the best Orlon batting. A one-pound bat will make three baby quilts. It is tied three inches apart with Orlon yarn. A tied quilt is fluffier than a quilted one, and children love the ties. Be sure they are put in with good square knots so they won't pull out and be swallowed. Of course, nothing can guarantee that some of the ties will not be removed. There is nothing more persistent than a two-year-old's fingers or a four-year-old who has just learned to use scissors. I know from sad experience that an angelic little cherub, after being tucked in for her nap, can slip out of her crib, get her blunt scissors and, while awaiting the arrival of the sandman, systematically clip out the ties in her Beddy Dupey. Since the edges will be dragged over many floors, mine are reinforced with blanket stitching in the same yarn with which the quilt is tied. A Beddy Dupey is closer to a child than his clothes. He has daily changes of clothes, but a quilt is constant security. A child may at first be attracted to the softness or the color, but when the attachment is formed, the complexion of the coverlet has nothing to do with its loveability. The grimier it becomes, the more it is beloved. Squeamish mothers may shudder as a freshly bathed child grabs a corner of his soiled blanket to chew on as he goes to sleep. But separating the child from his or her Beddy Dupey for a necessary laundering can be a traumatic experience for mother and child. It is highly recommended that Daddy take the child to the store to get a popsicle while the necessary washing takes place. You modern mothers be grateful for a dryer to 'hurry the process. My days were not so fortunate. I had very unobtrusively slipped the Pilt into the washing one day. It hung dripping on the clothesline when my son returned from the store with his Daddy, chocolate ice cream generously smearing his face. "My Pilt," he screamed, clasping its dampness to his gooey hands and face. My Beddy Dupeys are not dainty creations of satin and chiffon. They are made for service. Let no child of mine ever say to a child of hers, "Don't you dare take that pretty quilt your grandmother made you into the sandpile or the tree hut." That's what a Beddy Dupey is for: It should see a child through the terrors of the night, the pleasures of the day, through sickness and through health.