This Happened To Me Rae B. Barker Relief Society General Board Member N my teens, I used to turn over in my mind this query—of all possible places in the wide world, why was I so fortunate as to be born in "a land choice above all other lands," America? And why, in the long succession of human life, was I privileged to live at this particular time, a time foreseen and foretold by early prophets, a time looked forward to with eager hope, the "fulness of times" during which great and wonderful things would take place? I feel deeply grateful that I am permitted to live here in these days rich with opportunities for women.: In 1842 a prophetic promise of great importance was given in direct and simple language to a handful of Latter-day Saint women earnestly desiring to do good. Their desire to unite for their mutual development | and for the purpose of rendering greater service to others received divine approval and blessing. Our latter-day Prophet, through inspiration, saw more clearly than did any other person, women's true place in the eternal scheme. The Relief Society movement was, therefore, established by the power of the priesthood of God so that women would be helped through knowledge and development to rise to that, noble place. From the day when that far-reaching promise was declared that "... Knowledge and intelligence shall flow down," and that "if you live up to your privileges the angels cannot be restrained from being your associates," striking gains have been made in women's status. Many forces have worked together toward that end. A desert transformed into a blossoming garden would present no greater change than the transformation of the 1842 world for women to that of 1942. Occasionally, arousing myself out of a state of placid acceptance of these wonderful blessings, I attempt to evaluate my opportunities as compared to those of my great-grandmother. She had a pump, a wood-burning stove, a wash board, a straw tick and a broom. I have unlimited hot and cold water, an electric range, an electric washer, a spring mattress and a vacuum cleaner, to say nothing of the many other modern conveniences. Page 77 She loved learning, but in her time education for women was vigorously opposed. My problem is not a lack of privileges, but rather one of selecting out of the present bombardment of educational opportunities those which are most worth while and essential. As a citizen, she was denied the right to vote, with all that this implies. She could do nothing directly to support righteous government or to improve unwholesome conditions, such as the unjust discriminations against women and _children. I have this franchise, but I am sometimes guilty of needing a reminder to use it. She could not enter into business contracts, nor could she be the guardian of her own children. No such handicaps curtail my activities. The highly favorable conditions, that I too often take for granted, exceed her most extravagant dreams. In England, great-grandmother heard the revealed truth. The light of its message changed her life immeasurably, and has influenced her children through succeeding generations. For the Gospel she willingly tore loose the roots that bound her to home and country, and in 1841 she came to America, the land of Zion. Because the Gospel came to me as an inheritance, I wonder if I recognize how much it has brought into my life. Relief Society has played a part in both our lives. One hundred years ago (1842) she was among the comparatively few who had the rare privilege of membership in a new organization for women—The Female Relief Society of Nauvoo. At that time the Relief Society program for the spiritual and cultural development of its members was only in embryo. Now, Relief Society has a comprehensive and well-organized program. Its courses have been planned to satisfy the entire needs of women, intellectual, religious, practical; and they are presented in the light of Gospel knowledge. These courses are mine for the taking. From old records I have learned how dearly great-grandmother prized her place in Relief Society. She believed that the plan came from our Father, and that it would be a mighty instrument in enlarging women's sphere of usefulness. She sensed that the individual efforts of many women could be greatly magnified through the power of organization. But she could not possibly appreciate the tremendous potentialities of one hundred thousand women a century later. ARCH 17, 1842, is a date to be remembered by all Latter-day Saint women because of its unusual. Significance. It marked the beginning of one of the most important movements for women ever inaugurated—a movement designed to lift women to the elevated position eternally planned for them. Every woman who added her little mite in launching this progressive program contributed wealth to the generations which would follow her. Each of us of these later generations has reaped the harvest of that pioneering effort. Those who fostered Relief Society through hazardous days and brought it triumphantly through a century of service have left us a rich inheritance. Guided by an inspired priesthood, made strong by the accumulated strength of many, — 78: THIS HAPPENED TO ME many thousands of truth-loving women, Relief Society today not only persists, but it is an increasingly active force for good. March 17, 1942, is but a few days ahead. That day marks the close of one hundred wondrous years of spititual growth for women through revealed light. On the eve of our Relief Society centennial celebration I am deeply: impressed by the unique experience that will be mine—mine and every other woman's who becomes a part of it. I will be one of many who will be assembled in villages, towns and cities to commemorate the completion of a significant milestone in the onward progress of a divinely guided program. Each one will contribute something of value to this anticipated spiritual feast. Each one will feel the strength of group spirit. We will sing together, pray together, worship together, and rejoice together. The testimony that God lives will burn stronger within us. More than ever before we will api) preciate the plan of life that can make all men brothers. The powerful voice of the many in praise and thanksgiving will go up as one voice. The sincere petition for inner peace, for direction, for sustaining power to stand with courage to meet the days ahead will be answered in divine benediction on the efforts of this organization. One hundred thousand valiant women will renew allegiance and devotion to a glorious cause. With faith to follow our inspired leaders and with unity of purpose we will welcome the approaching challenge of a new century for service. The days of our centennial celebration will quickly pass. We who participate will feel as travelers on the observation platform of a speeding train: The present will slip into the past almost before there is time to appraise this important observance. But as we begin to visualize this scene in its true perspective, who of us will not say, "Did this memorable experience really happen to me?" "VJ HEREFORE, do not spend money for that which is of no worth, nor your labor for that which cannot satisfy...." (II Nephi 9:51) IN these days of sorrow and trial it is well to remember the words of the Prophet Joseph Smith spoken to the Relief Society sisters: "All difficulties which might and would cross our way must be surmounted, though the soul be tried, the heart faint, and hands hang down." Y 66 A WORD fitly spoken is like apples of gold in pictures of silver." ( Prov. 25:11)