In Retrospect President Amy Brown Lyman CHAPTER II Childhood HE Brown children were brought up in a strictly relig-. Ious atmosphere and they were taught to observe the teachings and standards of the Church. Family prayers were observed daily, and monthly Fast Days were regularly kept. All earnings were carefully tithed and the Word of Wisdom was faithfully observed. We were always in attendance at Sunday School and Primary meetings, and we were expected to attend sacrament meeting on Sunday afternoon. This did not seem a hardship, however, since there was really little else to do. } The Sunday School class of which I was a member occupied two long benches which extended the full width of the Church. Our teacher had no guide or lesson outlines to follow. Classwork consisted largely of scripture reading by the teacher and the pupils. We read in turn as the Bible was passed along, and occasional comments were made by the teacher. Since a number of classes were held in the same room of the chapel, which was the only room available, it was always hard to follow the lesson. But we did get acquainted with the scriptures. It is unfortunate that there is not more scripture reading today. My mother was so familiar with the Bible that she could give quotations that applied to almost any situation, somePage 80 thing appropriate for almost any oc- | casion. We sometimes used to think father was too straight-laced and oldfashioned because he did not always see things as we did; for example, he would not allow us to attend dances held in adjoining towns, and he would not permit us to go into the canyons on holidays or week ends with mixed groups without elder chaperones. 'This sometimes was very embarrassing to us, and really we felt as sorry for him as we did for ourselves. Our. Home, a one and one-half story adobe house, was lighted with kerosene lamps and candles—lamps for downstairs and candles for upstairs. With a family of seven young children, mother thought it was not safe for us to carry oil lamps upstairs. The candles were molded by her own hands, and as we ascended the stairs each evening, a mark on the candle indicated how long we could study, or visit, or play before we retired. Lamps were quite a bother. They had to be filled, wicks had to be trimmed, and chimneys had to be cleaned every morning. We had no running water in the home. All water for household use was drawn from a deep well and carried into the house. We were well supplied, however, with washbasins, soap, and towels, and we were instructed how and when to IN RETROSPECT use them. In taking a bath we had to use a washtub, place it behind an improvised curtain, and curl up in it as best we could. Later we had a long, portable, tin bathtub. Our laundry was all washed on a board, including sheets, bedspreads, and men's shirts. For heating and cooking we had old-fashioned stoves—one in the parlor, or best room, which was lighted only on Sundays and special occasions, another in my mother's bedroom, and the cookstove in the kitchen. A pipe ran up from the stove in the bedroom to a drum in the bedroom above, which was supposed to make a warm place for us to dress. We usually had but one fire at a time, and we were cold as soon as we moved away from the stove. We were thus either too cold or too hot—usually too cold during most of the winter. We had the same situation at school, and most of the children suffered from chillblains. Lack of. Overshoes or rubbers added to our discomfort. We wore much more clothing than girls do today. Ours was all homemade, including our stockings. The underwear, of which we wore aplenty, was usually made of unbleached muslin which was hung out on the clothesline or laid on the grass and sprinkled often until it became soft and white. Our sheets and pillowcases were also made of the same material in a heavier grade. In the winter we wore at least two petticoats at a time—a heavy woolen one underneath with a thinner one on top. We wore warm, well-lined wool dresses. On our heads we wore knitted hoods or fascinators; on our hands, home-knitted woolen mittens. Sweaters were unknown in 81 AMY AND HER BROTHER, NOW DR. JOHN Z. BROWN those days. In the summer we wore calico, swiss, and lawn dresses with several stiftly-starched white petticoats. As children, we always wore aprons to school—little front aprons; and even at Brigham Young Academy the grownups wore aprons — dainty, white muslin ones trimmed with lace or embroidery. My first school dress*when I entered the Brigham Young Academy was a pretty, gray linsey-woolsey trimmed with ball-shaped, cherry-red buttons; and my Sunday dress was a winecolored wool cashmere. Both of these dresses were lined and well boned. Our bathing suits were made to well cover our bodies, and with them we wore long stockings. Our bedsteads were wooden with slats laid across upon which were placed large, bulging, straw ticks _ which were refilled with clean, fresh _ straw each autumn at threshing time. - Upon the straw bed was placed a feather bed—a closely-woven tick filled with feathers plucked from our own fowls. Our floors were covered with homemade rag carpets woven on our own loom by mother, who was an expert weaver not only of carpets but of woolen cloth and bed- 'spreads. We were able later to secure a "states carpet" (ingrain) for our best room. A thick layer of straw was placed under the carpets as padding. Like most other families, we were the proud possessors of a reed organ. S I look back I am surprised that we had such a well-balanced diet in those early days. It was, of course, limited largely to what we could produce. We had milk and butter, a variety of fruit and vegetables, and enough meat for our good. With a good root cellar, we had potatoes and other root vegetables practically all winter, and our cellar shelves were filled with preserves, dried and canned fruits. We planted lettuce and radishes in relays—as one patch was being exhausted, another was coming on. Our meat consisted of chicken and pork which we raised ourselves, and occasionally we had beef, which cost as little as ten or fifteen cents per pound. It seems to me that the hams cured by my mother were the best I have ever tasted. In the summer we had ice cream on special occasions. Little money, and it was only occasionally that we could get a bit of "store candy," and then it would usually be only an egg's worth. I sometimes wonder how those storekeepers could tell how much candy As children, we had very to give for one egg. Occasionally we were allowed to make molasses or honey candy. ' Babies fared the worst of all in those early days. Feeding a baby on a regular schedule was not customary and probably not even advocated at that time. Often a busy mother nursed her baby or gave it other food whenever it cried. Babies usually slept with their mothers, and when they. Were restless and wakeful they were allowed to nurse. Bottlefed babies nursed from bottles with flat bottoms, shaped like a duck. These were placed down in the bed to keep the milk warm, and to them were attached long rubber tubes, about the size of a lead pencil, which could not be well cleaned. Nipples were attached to these rubber tubes. Babies and children were not tequired to take milk if they did not like it; they were given other food instead. I remember one mother who said her nine-month old baby did not like milk, so she brought it up mostly on bread and molasses, which the baby seemed to relish. As soon as a baby could sit up in a high chair it was taken to the table, and it was fed a little of whatever it reached for. Pacifiers were made by tying small pieces of milk-soaked, sweetened bread in a white cloth. It is no wonder that babies suffered so much from stomach and intestinal trouble and that the infant | death rate was high, especially among bottle-fed babies. Our dinner table was set with a bright oilcloth, with a blue and white or red and white checkered cloth, or with a cloth made of unbleached muslin.. Real linen was used only for very best. Our plates 82 IN RETROSPECT were turned upside down over the knives and forks, and the teaspoons were placed in a tall, glass holder. A revolving caster with bottles for salt, pepper, mustard, and ketchup was placed in the center of the table. We were a healthy family of children. Mother was our doctor, and she brought us up on Doctor Gunn's medical book, with which she was very familiar. She was well informed on all symptoms of disease, and she advised and treated the whole neighborhood. In the spring of the year we were given molasses and sulphur, and sassafras tea to "cleanse our blood." When there was diphtheria in town we wore asafetida bags about our necks, which made us smell like garlic. 'This gummy substance was supposed to be an effective preventive. Diphtheria was the terror of my childhood. During one siege three of the five children in the family of our neighbor died—two died one day, and the third the next. They were passed out through a bedroom window in black, homemade coffins, and placed in the bed of a farm wagon to be taken to the cemetery, where brief funeral services were held. There were no hearses in those days. In another family five children out of eight were stricken with this terrible disease. The parents became so desperate and terrified that they set fire to their home; the home and everything in it was burned., Scarlet fever was less common and less fatal, but it was also greatly dreaded. Cause of it were left with serious kidney trouble, and others with deafness. 'The measles came around I knew children who be-' 83 quite regularly, and some mothers, when one child in the family was stricken, would take no pains to protect the others from exposure, because it was thought that everyone, sooner or later, would have measles; and since the disease was harder on grownups than children, it was thought to be a good thing to have it over with while young. Smallpox seemed to be the one disease which people knew how to combat. I very well remember our first epidemic of smallpox. We children were all vaccinated by mother, who secured a piece of scab from a sore on the arm of a relative in Lehi who had been successfully vaccinated. Thanks to Doctor Gunn, she dipped the needle in alcohol, and her vaccination worked successfully with all of us. Another scourge of those days was puerperal fever (child-bed fever). When I was ten years old, my sister Laura and five other young mothers in Pleasant Grove lost their lives within two months' time, leaving six tiny babies. These women were all cared for by the same midwife who, though innocently, no doubt carried the germs from one patient to an-. Other. The maternal death rate in all America was high at that time, and maternal morbidity, or lack of full recovery, was common. After we had grown up, mother—whose partial invalidism was the result of lack of proper care and attention in childbirth—helped to secure a teacher and organize a class in obstetrics and nursing for the benefit of young women in our town. She insisted on her five daughters taking the course. Without mother's consent or knowledge, I decided one day to have my ears pierced. I went with some gitls to the home of a Danish woman who made a specialty of earpiercing. My ears swelled up and were so sore that I had to sleep on my back for some time. Whenever the cotton thread which was left in the ears was pulled to keep the hole open, pus would ooze out. My ears finally healed, however, and by selling peaches that I had dried, | earned enough to buy some circle earrings of which I was very proud. As a young girl, I milked cows, fed pigs and chickens, set hens and took them off, hoed and watered the garden, pulled weeds, picked and dried fruit, gathered and dried ground cherries for the market, and did all sorts of housework. FOR recreation we rode horses, went buggy riding, went on picnics, attended occasional dances and home-dramatic performances; -in the summer we went bathing in Utah Lake and took trips into the nearby canyons. We attended candy pullings in winter and peach and apple cuttings in the fall. Upon invitation, we would gather at a home in the evening where huge boxes and baskets of fruit would be awaiting us. We would cut the fruit, and, by lantern or moonlight, spread it out on lumber scaffolds to dry, after which refreshments would be served. Apples were peeled with a peeler attached to the table. 'These affairs were always great fun, as they gave the boys and girls a chance to work together, and the boys would always "see us home." When an occasional lecturer or visiting Church official, came to town our meetinghouse would be packed. Books were scarce. Every cent father could spare was used for buying books from Dwyer's Book Store in Salt Lake City. Father loved history and biography as well as fiction. We had access to Dickens' writings and to Plutarch's lives. We read with great interest the little ~ faith-promoting series, "Stories of Church Leaders," published by the Juvenile Instructor and the Deseret News. Christmas was an outstanding event in our lives. No matter what our circumstances, mother always managed to have enough toys and sweets to thrill our hearts and satisfy our appetites, as well as new pieces of clothing, which always included new Christmas dresses for the girls. Stockings were not hung up in our home; instead, plates were placed upon the table which was covered with a fresh tablecloth. The gifts were piled upon the plates, and another tablecloth was placed over the top to cover everything. When we came down on Christmas morning the table looked like a mountain range with high peaks and low valleys. One of my earliest recollections was the death of President Brigham Young. I was just five and one-half years old. A neighbor came rushing up our walk to bring the news. Several others dropped in, and there was very serious and, to me, alarming conversation. These women wondered what would become of the Church and the people with this famous leader gone.. I first attended school in the old United Order Hall. 'The school was held in the large room which occupied all of the top floor and which was reached by an outside stairway. 84 0CtC"*W IN RETROSPECT The ground floor and the cellar of this building were used as a tithing granary and storehouse, and it was in this building that for many years the Relief Society wheat of the ward was stored. I shall never forget my first day in school. The teacher was Mrs. Fanny Stewart, a tall, angular woman, intellectual and well-read, but very serious. Like the other beginners, I was afraid of her and of the older children as well. 'It was a mixed school of several grades with seventy-five or eighty pupils. There were few textbooks, and equipment was very limited. At times the teacher was put to her wits' end to carry on a recitation with one group, keep other groups busy, and at the same time maintain order. This was indeed a very difficult task. The teacher was very conscientious, and she was determined to get good results in the matter of our intellectual development. She was more interested in seeing that we learned something than she was in finding out how we felt about what we learned. She succeeded in teaching us how to apply ourselves, and she made sure that our work was correct and well done. She certainly gave us a good start. Mrs. Stewart was a widow, and she had the entire care of three young children. She used to bring her children, her mending, and her ironing to school, and at recess and noon she would mend or iron. She often allowed the older girls to iron during school hours. This they loved to do. The flatirons were heated on the large, oval stove which stood in the middle of the room. We first learned the alphabet, and then we learned to read, spell, and 85 write. Our books consisted of the old Wilson readers, which were exceptionally good, and the famous blue-backed spelling books. Our number work was taken from the blackboard. We used slates entirely for writing, with slate pencils attached to the slate by a string tied through a hole in the slate frame. Lead pencils and paper for children were luxuries we had not dreamed of. Most of the older children had double slates which, of course, furnished more space. 'The girls usually had a little bottle of soapsuds and a wet rag or sponge for erasing or cleaning their slates. The boys, however, were not so particular. It was quite a task to keep slates clean and sweet smelling since saliva was often used when water was not handy or available. A large pail, with a dipper, placed in one end of the room, furnished us with drinking water—a far cry from our sanitary drinking fountains of today. The next year the schools were better graded, and we were moved to the schoolhouse. Altogether, I had six teachers in the grades—three women and three men. They were all good and greatly loved teachers. I was especially fond of the three women, who made such fine impressions upon my mind that they have been an unceasing uplift to me all my life. In my third year, my older sister, Rose Brown (later Mrs. I. J. Hayes), was my teacher. She had just returned from the Brigham Young Academy, where she had graduated from the normal department under Karl G. Maeser. She was an efficient, up-to-date teacher, as gentle and kind and able in the schoolroom as she had always been 86 > in our home where, being ten years my senior, she was to me a second mother. For kindness and evenness of disposition, I have never known her to be surpassed. My teacher in the eighth grade was Augusta Winters, later Mrs. Heber J. Grant. It was our good fortune that she came back to Pleasant Grove that particular year to be the principal of the school and the teacher of the seventh and eighth grades. She was 'an excellent and most interesting teacher. Having attended both the Brigham Young Academy and the University of Utah, she was especially well prepared. She had also taught school in a number of other places, including Salt Lake City. She had traveled a great deal—to California and even to far-away Maine. She used to tell us many interesting, new, and different things. She was not only well prepared as an instructor, but she was dramatic and humorous in her presentation of material; she constantly enlivened her teaching with interesting experiences, stories, and comments. We admired and respected this excellent teacher for her fine traits of character, her intellectuality, her dignity and poise, and for her splendid ability as a teacher. We loved her for her attractive personality, for her kindness and sympathy, as well as for her beauty and charm. She was our heroine, and we all longed to be like her. (To be continued)