Lovest Thou Me More Than These?" O. F. Ursenbach Manager, Los Angeles Regional Storehouse N the great art museums of Eu- | rope, photographs are available of the famous paintings displayed. Before me at this writing is a photograph of a canvas by G. De Grayer, which I purchased in the Brussels Art Museum, in Belgium. In the center foreground of the picture are many large fish, and in the tear stand six fishermen. In the left foreground stands the Apostle Peter holding a large fish by the gills, and in the right foreground stands the resurrected Christ looking into Peter's face and pointing toward the fish on the ground before them. Prior to the occasion pictured in this painting, the risen Lord had twice appeared—once to the women at the tomb, then to the apostles in the "upper room." The painting represents the third occasion when Jesus showed himself to his disciples after he had risen from the dead. The account of this appearance, as recorded in John 21: 1-17, tells us that on the sea of Tiberias a fishing party consisting of Peter, Thomas, Nathaniel, James, John and two other unidentified disciples—a group of seven—had fished all night without success. _ When the morning came, they saw standing on the shore a personage whom they did not know. His voice ' rang out to the fishermen: "Children, have ye any meat?" The fishermen answered negatively. Again came the voice: "Cast the net on the right side of the ship and ye shall find." This they did, and brought up a multitude of fishes. 'Then they recognized that the personage was the Lord. Then other disciples came in a little ship dragging a net laden with fishes. When _ they reached the land, they saw a fire of coals there, with fish laid upon it. They saw bread also. Then Jesus told them to bring the fish they had caught. And Peter went up and drew the fish to land. The unbroken net contained 153 "great fishes." } Then Jesus commanded the fishermen to come and dine, and He served them the bread and fishes. After the Lord had served the disciples he turned to Peter asking: "Simon Peter, son of Jonas, lovest thou me more than these?" Being assured of Peter's love, He continued: "Feed my lambs." 'Twice again He asked the same question. Each time, following Peter's reassuring reply, the Master said: "Feed my sheep." The inference is frequently made that this commission referred only to spiritual food, but that it may have had a wider meaning is evidenced by the fact that the apostles, in the direct aftermath of the Ascension, inaugurated a welfare movement, under the law of consecration, for the temporal sustenance of the Saints. Acts 4:34-35 states: "Neither said any of them that ought of the things which they possessed was his Page 101 102 own; but they had all things in common.... Neither was there any among them that lacked; for as many as were possessors of lands or houses sold them, and brought the prices of the things that were sold. And laid them down at the apostles' feet: and distribution was made to every man according as he had need." Joses of Cypres is mentioned as one who sold his land and gave all to the apostles. The story is also told of Annanias and his wife Sapphira who sold their possessions but selfishly retained a portion of the money. 'This brought Peter's stinging rebuke: "While it remained, was it not thine own? And after it was sold, was it not in thine own power? Why hast thou conceived this thing in thine heart? Thou hast not lied to men, but unto God." Suppose today the Master, considering our worldly possessions, should ask each individually: "Lovest thou me more than these?" Then, following our reassuring reply, suppose He should say: "Feed my sheep." 'To what extent would each comply? Today the Lord does not require that we give our all, but He has given us the law of tithing, which we, as a people, have only partially observed. We have also been charged to pay a fast offering. Many there are who have been blessed with affluence who console themselves with the thought that they have fully met the fast offering requirement when they have paid the amount: suggested by the Church as the minimum per capita amount. These persons could easily contribute many times this amount. Were the fast fund commensurate with the ability of Latter-day Saint people to pay, the welfare movement would be fully financed; moreover, the present heavy call upon the Presiding Bishopric for assistance from the tithing funds to help wards meet monthly deficits incurred through providing for underprivileged members, would be eliminated. Church members should advisedly and prayerfully consider the following lines: If everybody cared enough, If everybody shared enough, Everybody would have enough. A