Vegetables for Vitality for Victory"' James M. Kirkham Secretary, Church Beautification Committee HERE is one great objective before the United States right now, and that is victory. We are. Asked to direct all of our thoughts, resources, and energies toward winning the war. The efforts of many civilians are required to equip and keep one man aes A GOOD SELECTION OF VEGETABLES FOR SALADS. LETTUCE, CUCUMBER, PEPPER, TOMATO AND CELERY CABBAGE. Distribution tie-ups which have afflicted every country engaged in war, then every family controlling a bit of fertile, productive soil must have a garden. The disappearance of surpluses and an increase in the price of fresh vegetables are considered a certainty at the front for service in the modern fighting force. The fighters need food; the workers who help equip the fighters need food. One of the indispensable war production items is food. War gardens, in which are produced vital, prospective foods for home use, have now become a national necessity. If the United States is to continue enjoying food in abundance, if it is to escape the production shortages and by many authorities. As employment has increased, the demand for many food products has increased rapidly. This is another reason why increased production of food is necessary. Reports tell us that many women of Britain have kept up their morale during the war by caring for small, back-yard gardens. The protection and care of the health of people in this nation during this war is going to be one of the Page 105 =e sl | \ —_—_—_—_——- CUCUMBERS TRAINED ON WIRE FENCE major problems of the Government. The campaign to accomplish this has already started. We all recognize the health values to be found in fresh air, sunshine, and exercise. We also know the health values to be found in fresh vegetables. A wellkept vegetable garden is a source for all of these as well as a financial profit to the owner and a pleasure to the entire family. The home vegetable garden should be a family interest, and all members of the family who are able to do so should take part in its care and cultivation. Agricultural leaders of the nation expect an increase of about one and one-third million home vegetable gardens this year. It is a great satisfaction to have. A supply of vegetables close at hand. Many vegetables rapidly deteriorate in quality after being gathered. Vegetables are at their best when fresh picked from one's own garden. When a family produces its own vegetables, it usually eats more vegetables than if it had to depend upon those purchased with money from a store. Eating more home-grown vegetables tends to improve the family's health. Vegetables and fruits furnish a large part of the essential minerals, salts, and vitamins neces-. Sary to the well-being of the human system. The health value of vegetables in the diet is of even greater importance than the economic values of home production. Homegrown vegetables also release more of the commercial vegetable production for other uses, such as helping to provide food for the fighting forces. A good family food plan calls for two vegetables a day besides potatoes. One of these should be leafy or raw, such as lettuce, spinach, cabbage, or tomatoes. The other one should be a root vegetable, or corn, string beans, peas, or some other vegetable of this clasification. EGETABLES may be grown in | many corners and waste places that are now overrun by weeds. Where weeds will grow, it is quite certain that vegetables will also grow if given reasonable care. In selecting the place for a garden, however, we must remember that vegetables will not grow in poor soil, such as that found in many city back yards. It too often consists of rocks, cinders, or basement soil. Certain vegetables may be grown among flowers, in corners, or trailed on fences. Before planting, study should be given to the kind of vegetables and the varieties best adapted to the planting area. A garden should not be planted where the sun does not shine upon the land for at least five hours each bright day. VEGETABLES FOR VITALITY FOR VICTORY All garden space should be fully utilized throughout the growing season. Succession planting is the answer to this, and with careful planning, almost the entire gamut of garden edibles may be grown on a twenty-foot square in one season. Do not follow root crops with root crops, or plants of one family with members of the same family. A few combinations that work out excellently are: late peas followed by celery; early peas followed by late cabbage; early lettuce by summer squash; spinach, lettuce, and radishes by bush lima beans; early beets by string beans; early string beans by fall beets; early carrots by endive or winter radishes; early onions by kale; peas by turnips or carrots. 'Tomatoes may be set between the rows of peas and thus get started while the peas are reaching maturity, then when the pea vines are removed, the tomato vines may develop to maturity. Peppers and eggplant may be planted after the earliest spinach and radishes. The plan for the small garden should be made early and carefully worked out before seed orders are placed. Order your favorite seed catalogue now, and place orders early enough to assure getting the choice or better seed. Seed cata-. Logues are very helpful, as they give data about each vegettable that are necessary in making a sucesful garden. Many seeds, such as tomatoes, cabbage, and brussel sprouts, should be planted early in flats or in seed boxes in order to make ready for early transplanting as soon as the frost is over. In many places, local greenhouses raise these plants to a 107 size suitable for transplanting and then sell them to home gardeners. Much valuable information may be obtained from your state experiment station. A bulletin dealing with vegetable gardens will usually be sent upon request. These bulletins have planting charts giving the varieties to plant, the proper date of planting, the number of days required for. Maturing, the quantity of seed to plant in a given space, as well as the depth and distance apart that seeds should be planted. Now that home vegetable gardens have been declared vital in our national war program, every person who has land suitable for use in the production of food should plan now to do his part in this emergency. Plant "vegetables for vitality for victory. Scarier Ae GLOBE. (2 —=—<——= ANIMA,, K Aww "yy == = =—=—=—_ yt = ICICLE. RADISH TYPES HAP PEN NGS Annie Wells Cannon Behold a war-torn world! Yet the seasons pass, And beneath the winter snows and blasts Lie snowdrops, violets, and tender grass. HE wives and mothers of the nation who keep the home fires burning, while not so spectacular, are a very essential group. - It is through their devotion and determination that the ideals and standards of the American home will be preserved, children cared for and taught correct principles, and the light of faith and hope kept shining to welcome in the dawn of a better day. LADYS SWARTHOUT, Metropolitan opera singer, was named by the poll of the radio editors and columnists the best classical radio singer for 1941. Lily Pons was second, and Margaret Speaks was third. HIRLEY TEMPLE, after an absence of two years from the screen, returns this year in the romantic. Drama Kathleen, under the direction of the Metro-GoldwynMayer studios. She will make only two pictures, as she has to continue her school work. Her future depends largely on the success of this new production. BERTHA A. KLEINMAN, poet of Utah and Arizona, has been designated as winner of the third prize in the National Thanksgiving Poetry Contest for 1941 for her poem, "Pledge the Flag and Steady On." 'Thirty-eight states were repPage 108 resented in the contest and there were over 2,500 entries. 'The judges were presidents and professors of eastern universities. 'The poem becomes the property of the National Foundation and will be given due publicity and recognition. BERENICE DuRAE THORPE, Seattle housewife and teaching fellow at Washington University, won the 1941 Alfred A. Knopf Literary Fellowship fiction prize of $1200 to be followed by book publication on a royalty basis, for her novel Reunion at Strawberry Hill. ANCY M. BARKER, talented young teacher of the arts and modern languages at Weber College, died during the holiday season. Marianne M. Browning, popular matron and worker in Church and club circles also received the final call. Among other notable Utah women to pass away was Melissa Chipman Boley, 85, of American Fork, the oldest resident of her home town. Where she was a prominent figure in organization work. D*-. ANNIE STURGESS DANIELS of New York, known as "angel of the tenements," was feted by prominent members of the medical profession and others on her sixtieth year of philanthropical service among the unfortunate residents of the tenements.