Work-andBusiness Better Buymanship Lesson 8 Care Of Clothing (Tuesday, May 12, 1942) ODAY when personal appearance means so much to one's reputation and success, a person can scarcely afford to tolerate a missing fastener, a soiled spot, or a run-down heel. Many people have been denied success and friendships because of carelessness and slovenliness in dress and because of wastefulness due to the improper care of clothing. It is not only to a person's advantage socially to properly care for his wearing apparel, but it is also to his advantage economically. To use good judgment in the selection of clothing is very important, but if this same clothing is not properly cared for, it will not give satisfaction either as to appearance or durability. Whether an article of clothing adds to or detracts from one's personal appearance is a matter which extends from the time the garment is purchased until it can no longer be worn, and to a marked extent this depends upon the care the garment receives. It is the detailed and systematic care given to clothing—which after all is a matter of habit formation—that differentiates the well-groomed person from the untidy or careless one. To establish good habits in the care of clothing, it is necessary for one to have suitable places for storage, and the proper equipment with which to care for clothes. "A place for everything, and everything in its place" is a good slogan to follow. To buy suitable equipment and ready-made clothes-storage boxes or chests is expensive, but the ingenious person can do much herself to provide these at little cost. Simple, inexpensive and very satisfactory equipment may be made at home. Orange crates may be secured from the grocery store and made into wardrobes or storage boxes. Hangers may be padded and covered; round boxes and cans may be padded on top and covered to make hat stands. Covers for shoes that are seldom worn may be made from men's old stockings. } It is not only important to have suitable equipment, but it is also important that this equipment be conveniently located for use; for example, brushes that are hung in the closet are handy and are more apt to be used for brushing coats, dresses, and hats than they would be if not so conveniently placed. Shoecleaning equipment that is near the place where shoes are stored is used much more often than it would be if placed in another room. After the proper equipment has been provided and conveniently placed, then habits which are timesavers must be formed. Children should be taught correct habits from childhood. Having provided hangers for them, hooks should be placed low enough for children to reach so that they can properly hang up their own clothing. Very small children can learn to polish their shoes, sew on buttons, and do numerous other similar tasks. It is easy to put off caring for one's clothes. However, everyone realizes that regular inspection rather than intensive occasional care lightens upkeep and lengthens wear. Clothing should receive daily, weekly, and seasonal care, which includes brushing, hanging correctly, mending, cleaning, and pressing. The proper time to inspect clothes for needed repairs is immediately after wearing them. Dust, soil, and lint when allowed tc remain on a garment seep into and mar the material as well as spoil the appearance of the garment. Ifa garment cannot be cared for immediately upon removing it, it should be placed aside and cared for before being put with garments that are ready for wear. Simple precautions in putting garments on and taking them off increase wear. Wearing apparel while damp from perspiration or other moisture should not be placed in unventilated closets or boxes, and all clothing should be aired often. Hosiery and undergarments should be laundered after each wearing since perspiration has a disintegratting effect upon the fibers from which they are made. Many people fail to realize that _ the wearer herself is frequently responsible for the deterioration of her garments. She may not only have purchased a poor fabric, but she may have careless habits with regard to caring for her clothes, such as allowing them to become too soiled before being cleaned. Then, too, she may wear her clothing too tight or too close to the skin. When applying make-up or combing the hair, some protection should be placed around the shoulders 'to prevent the dress from becoming unnecessarily soiled. Dress shields prevent odors or stains from accumulating under the sleeve. The cleaning bill will be lowered if one uses aprons, smocks, or washable dresses when working in the kitchen or when doing other work which may soil clothing. Clothing should be repaired when it first begins to show wear or while the hole is still small. This prolongs wear, and the mend is often unnoticeable. Articles that need repairing, regardless of how small the break, should be -repaired before being worn again. Correct pressing does much to improve the appearance of the gar- 132 LESSON DEPARTMENT ment. Spots should be removed as soon as possible after they are noticed. Cleaning methods must be adapted to the materials being cleaned. Dry-cleaning at home is dangerous. In spite of the fact that many moth-proofed fabrics are on the market, it is still necessary to take measures to prevent moths from destroying woolen materials when stored. A knowledge of how to properly care for clothing requires continuous reading and an intelligent understanding of the factors involved, but the time spent in gaining this knowledge is worth while. The person who carefully cares for her clothing is repaid in personal satisfaction, better social relations, and increased value from the money expended for clothes. Suggested Activities 1. Bring all types of hangers to meeting. Discuss the advantages and disadvantages of each. Show how elastic placed on the end of coat hangers will prevent a garment from slipping off. Show how skirt hangers may be devised; how hangers may be covered. 2. Bring various types of bags that may be used to keep clothes free from dust. 3. Show easily devised pressing equip ment and demonstrate methods of pressing various materials. 4. Show improvised mending kits and shoe-cleaning kits. 5. Bring clothes that illustrate the type which needs much care and the type which needs very little care. 6. Illustrate how storage space may be made at little cost. 7. Show mends that attract very little attention and tell why. 8. If possible, show garments that have been carefully cared for and those that have not. Pledtaneree Humor In Life And Literature Lesson 8 The Importance Of A Sense Of Humor (Tuesday, May 19, 1942) A sense of humor is almost a philosophy of life... The man with a sense of humor has maintained into manhood the splendid discovery of the child that "the world is full of a number of things." The man with a sense of humor may claim to see life whole, even though he cannot guarantee to see it steadily. * * A sense of humor is the ability to see yourself when you are not looking in the mirror.—Nephi Jensen Lesson Topics Review of last lesson Why a sense of humor is important Can humor be taught? Summary of the course Review of Last Lesson The previous lesson was on humor about and for children. The kinds of humor children like were discussed—pictures, pantomimes, unusual uses of words, jingles, stories 134 with humorous situations and characters. The enjoyment by adults of humor written about children, and often that written for children, was briefly discussed and mention was made of such stories as Ferdinand, The Bull, and The Abbe Children. The unconscious humor of children was considered and illustrations were given of whimsical sayings and unintended jokes of children which amuse older persons. Humor as a bond between parents and children was the final topic of the lesson. The discussion pointed out that the sharing of experiences is a cement that binds people together. Children like to share with their mothers the things which make them happy. If mothers will take the trouble to know what their children laugh at, to laugh with them, they will have an invaluable means of helping their children to remain clean and wholesome, for what people laugh at is a significant character indicator. The Importance of a Sense of Humor Joe Cook, a professional humorist, says, "Try to tell anyone that he hasn't a sense of humor and you are in for a fight. You won't even tell it to your best friend." He further stresses the fact that everyone recognizes the importance of a sense of humor and prides himself on having one. "You'll hear people who haven't laughed since the village mortgage forecloser got caught in the stock market boast about their sense of humor, when you know perfectly well that they wouldn't know a joke if one dropped in their soup. But question their sense of humor, and you might as well move to another town." Despite the fact that every one values a sense of humor and thinks he has one, it, like humor itself, is difficult to define. ""There's no yardstick for measuring humor or a sense of humor. They are the most disputed commodities in the world." A person with a sense of humor has a richer personality than one who lacks it. He sees all sides of a question. He has too many interests to be self-interested. He never takes himself too seriously. He finds it easy to adjust to others, so he has more friends than the person who is so self-centered that he can see only his own point of view. A sense of humor enables any person to get more out of life. No matter what his work is, he has need of it. A politician has great need of it; so does a lawyer, a doctor, a teacher—certainly a teacher who has the young in his care. Most of all, however, mothers—who, like teachers, must be models for the young and who must also be able to understand the viewpoints of others—need it. Ability to understand the viewpoints of others is the chief element in a sense of humor. As a weapon to fight prejudice, ignorance, or any cause, a sense of humor cannot be overestimated. A writer on humor who made the same discovery as did Joe Cook— that it is very rare to find a person willing to admit that he has no sense of humor—says that like a want of sympathy, a want of humor seems to be reckoned a crime. He calls the esteemed quality of a sense of humor the sixth sense. He feels that it is the absence of humor which LESSON DEPARTMENT sometimes makes us feel solitary among the realness of nature. We cannot discover humor in trees or lakes or hills; therefore, that certain ache of solitude which everyone has experienced when amid the loveliest scenes of nature is probably caused "by the non-fulfillment of the great human need for laughter." He would agree with Marshall P. Wilder, compiler of the ten volumes of Wit and Humor of America, who says: "But we cannot have too much or even enough of anything so good or so necessary as the literature that makes us laugh." A sense of humor is the ability to see humor and appreciate it. It is also, then, the ability to see truth, for humor has been repeatedly called truth—truth in a novel, dramatic and, therefore, arresting form. S. Macnaughton wrote many years ago: "Humor is truth—truth often exaggerated, as in caricature; truth often concealed by a lie; but its prevailing element is truth." In proof of the closeness existing between humor and truth, one need only listen to people when they perceive the humor in a joke. They often exclaim: "That is so funny— and how true!" Humor, like art, carries the vision directly to reality. Another claim that Mr. Macnaughton makes for humor is that it shows mankind at its best. He says: "Seriousness has become § artificial, and literalness (humor's worst foe), by accepting truisms, seems altogether to have missed truth. Humor is a hopeful fellow in the midst of it all. He is eminently social and courageous. All he asks for is a little good company in which to flourish. When he finds us sitting in the dark, he reminds us that matches are only 135 potential fire and require to be struck on a box. Rub lightly, for humor is never clumsy-fisted, and the torch thus kindled may not be a very big one, but even a little light may help poor humanity toa more cheerful frame of mind, and especially on gray days." Although the above was written nearly thirty years ago, it might have been written in justification of what this course aims to do—help us to a more cheerful frame of mind _ because the present days are gray. One might write indefinitely in reviewing various authorities on the importance of humor. Dr. Linus W. Kline in an article published in the Popular Science. Monthly in 1908 declared that "No stimulus perhaps more mercifully and effectively breaks the surface tension of consciousness, thereby conditioning the mind for a stronger forward movement, than that of humor." He discusses the various functions of humor. One of these that we have already emphasized is the function of humor in giving relief from mental tension. Dr. Kline says that the psychical function is "to delicately cut the surfaces of known consciousness and disarrange its structure to the end that it may begin again on a new and strengthened base. It permits our mental forces to reform under cover, as it were, while the battle is still on. Then, too, it clarifies the field and reveals the strategic points, or, to change the figure, it pulls off the mask and exposes the real man. In fact, humor is an instrument to aid in the approach to the realities of life—real realities." This writer shows that the physiological function of humor is fully as important as the psychical. He says that humor is beneficial to the entire physical being. It relieves the anemia of the brain. It helps to prolong in the individual the possibility of spiritual development. "It stands guard at the dividing line between the free and the mechanized mind and keeps the individual young; it projects the best of youth into adult life.... It keeps the race from hardening into instinctive and hereditary forms of action." Can Humor be Taught? Since humor is so important, and since it is unfortunately not true that everyone has a sense of humor, despite what each one thinks of himself to the contrary, the question arises, can humor be taught? Stephen Leacock, one of the outstanding humorists of our day and a teacher of long experience, thinks it can and should be taught. This theory was mentioned in the first lesson. In one of his latest books, Humor, Its Theory and Technique, Mr. Leacock suggests various courses which might be given in a university on this subject, and he indicates how they might be conducted. There are others, too, who would have humor taught. A few years ago William McAndrew, a former superintendent of schools in Chicago, expressed the same point of view. He advanced the idea that courses in the appreciation of humor should be given in all of the educational institutions of the country. Some criticisms of his stand was expressed in magazines and newspapers. One wriler said there was grave danger in taking humor seriously. He further stated: "The more things people are taught, the less they seem able to learn for themselves. Let us continue to have faith that people will see a joke for themselves." But if humor is an art, why can it not be taught as the other arts are—at least an appreciation of it? Let us return a moment to Joe Cook, quoted earlier in the lesson. He says, "Beyond a certain point people must be educated to what is amusing. They need practice." Homer Croy, a popular humorous writer, implies that a sense of humor should and can be developed when he says, "People are queer. It's easy to make them laugh after you have pried the first laugh loose. Human beings go around with their faces frozen and set; they don't know how to laugh, and it takes a jolt to get that first laugh, but once that is broken, the laugh comes fairly easy." Mr. Wilder says that laughter is one - of the best medicines in the world, and though some people would make you force it down them with a spoon, there is no doubt that it is a splendid tonic and awakens the appetite for happiness. Anyone might undertake a course of self-training in the subject. One learns to appreciate good music by hearing it and by studying its technique. One can learn art appreciation by looking at masterpieces of art and by learning the fundamental principles of good art. Why will not the same hold true of humor? By reading humor, by becoming observant of the incongruities upon which it is based, by learning to distinguish the various types of humor, surely great progress could be made. Perhaps this brief set of lessons may serve as a beginning in the appreciation of humor in literature and life 136 LESSON DEPARTMENT among Relief Society class members; perhaps they may serve as an impetus to them to continue the study of humor for the cultural benefits and the happiness it brings. Summary of the Course The eight lessons included in this course have attempted to give an introduction to the subject of humor, to discuss its various types and the mediums through which they are presented, and to introduce some. Of the great humorous writers and a few of the great humorous characters in literature. Furthermore, they have aimed to emphasize the need for humor in the lives of children as well as adults, and to suggest means whereby an appreciation of humor may be developed. A number of brief excerpts from humorous 137 literature have been given. 'Teaching helps have been suggested, and supplementary readings have been given for the purpose of stimulating a study of the subject. Study Helps 1. Discuss the value of a sense of humor to one. Illustrate by relating incidents. 2. Do you think humor can be taught to children? To adults? Give reasons for your opinion and if possible give examples. (This question might be discussed in the form of a debate.) 3. If the course has pleased or benefited you, tell in what way. What have you liked most? 4. What can you do to make the benefits you have received continue to function in your life? 5. Have on display notebooks or scrapbooks that have been kept by individuals or by the group. A