MRS. NETTIE D. BRADFORD is good. His promises never fail. To trust implicitly in His goodness and mercy is a great principle, let us therefore put our trust in Him! Are we, as mothers in Israel, teaching our children perfect faith in their Father in heaven? Do we draw them around us in the family circle each morning, and there present ourselves before our Heavenly Father, asking for his blessings, for his divine protecting care, for his aid, and for strength and courage to go forward and perform the labors and duties required at our hands from day to day? It is necessary that we do these things. Let us never forget our family worship. In the morning we find that in families there is so much hurry and bustle; so many are leaving home at different times, and it is hard to get the family together, but in the evening is our opportunity. Let us teach our children to take their part in offering family prayer. I remember very well, when a young child at home, a young man came to my mother's home.. We sat down at the dinner table, and my mother asked this young man if he would ask the blessing upon the food. He hung his head, and said, "I have never done such a thing in my life." That young man came from the home of a Bishop in our Church. Those parents had neglected to teach that boy to ask the blessing on the food, or to be mouth in family prayer. The father had assumed all the responsibility. We know our duty, we know that we are responsible for the teachings we give to our children. Let us be careful, let us watch the little things, let us teach our children to be spiritually minded, because from this they will get their comfort and their strength. We should be mothers in very deed. In our homes we should see to it that our children are taught to value the spiritual side of life. We should teach them to observe the Sabbath Day, to keep it holy; to go to the House of the Lord on the Sabbath Day, and there partake of the Sacrament; we should teach them the Word of Wisdom and live it every day. Let us pay our tithes and our offerings unto the Lord. If our children are taught by our example, if they are taught to take these donations to the Bishop, to pay their own tithing, do not do it for them, because they learn to do by doing. Our earthly joys are passing. Sometimes we think we are having a joyous time, we mingle with our friends in parties and socials, and we do enjoy it, but do we enjoy a feast in a good meeting, or talking or reading of the gospel, or learning more of the ways of our Savior, in studying the gospel, in reading the Book of Mormon? I can testify that my testimony has been strengthened, and that I know of a surety that God lives, that 294 the Book of Mormon is divine, that Joseph Smith was a true prophet of the Lord, and I pray that we may each have our testimonies strengthRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ened, and may we have strength and courage to go forward and perform the labors and duties required of us.