COUNSELOR AMY BROWN LYMAN As a great family agency, the Relief Society has distinguished itself in the field of family work covering a period of ninety years. It has made rich contributions to family life wherever it has functioned throughout the Church. It is interested, at all times, in family conservation, in promoting and enriching family life, in helping individuals to achieve their best, and in establishing and maintaining fine community standards; and whenever a new need is pointed out, the Relief Society is always on hand to help. I desire tonight to make a few observations with a view of stimulating thought on some of the problems which we have been meeting in the Relief Society during the last three years. In any great crisis, whether in public or private life, there comes to the surface many weak spots, defects and handicaps, which, under ordinary circumstances would not be noticed or would be concealed from view. This is just as true of society as it is of individuals. In the main, nations, peoples and individuals go the way of least resistance, without much concern for the future, and not until some test comes, Or some disaster or calamity reveals conditions, do we really know them as they are, or what a prevention program should be. Many an individual goes along aimlessly in life, and not until he is forced to face life squarely, does he discover how poorly prepared he is to meet it. I have seen many People completely discouraged when they have had to face competition. It has been a tragedy in their lives to find that they have failed. When our country entered the World War we were very much surprised to find we had so many weaknesses, defects and shortcomings. We had known of our strength, but we did not know of our weaknesses until they were forced upon our attention. We were shocked to find so many with physical defects, so many aimless young men who were wandering about detached from families or friends. We were shocked to find so many irresponsible heads of families who had not been able to save in times of prosperity, or even to adequately provide for their families; so many wives of soldiers and sailors who were in poor health; and not prepared for homemaking and housekeeping; So many families unprepared to meet ordinary emergencies, let alone the strain and stress of a war. We are now in the third year of the greatest financial depression the world has ever known, and we are finding out again that we have other weaknesses and deficiencies; something is wrong with our economic, industrial and political systems; with society, families and individuals, and we are wondering what has caused this situation. Have the homes and churches failed? Have the schools and colleges failed, that we are in this dilemma? We are told by some economists that the cause of this depression is that we are trying to run a new world on old plans; that there has been just as much change in the world as in methods of transportation. Others tell us that we are living in a rapidly RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE developing industrial age, that agriculture and all forms of hand work have declined in relative importance, and machine production, transportation, and commerce have multiplied many times. Due to these facts man's wants have been increased, and they are not able to provide for their wants. A recent article said that this is not a depression at all, that it is a mishandling of the most prosperous era the world has ever known. We have found, generally speaking, that as a nation and, as individuals, we do not save. There are, at least, two advantages to saving. In the first place we have the savings, if we do have them, and in the second place we have formed the habit of saving, which is vastly more important than the savings themselves. In the second place, we find that we not only have not saved, we have spent more than we have made. We are in debt nationally and individually, which is a very tragic situation. The greatest slavery in the world is the slavery of debt! I think one reason why we have gone in debt so heavily is because we buy too much on the installment plan. We are all guilty. I heard an economist say not long ago that he firmly believes one of the causes of this depression is that we buy so much on the installment plan, and why do we do it? First, because we are so tempted these days, with all the wonderful new inventions which make life so interesting and comfortable; and secondly, we cannot resist the high pressured salesmen with whom we are confronted. We can go into a store and pay $1.00 down and $1.00 a month, and get many of the things we could not otherwise have, but this is a very bad habit. Some people wonder why the stores are so willing to sell 297 on the installment plan. Of course. In the first place, they charge us more than for cash, and in the second place they get a good many things back because we cannot pay for them, and that is probably the reason they manage to get along. Why, you can buy almost anything on the installment plan. I received a letter the other day saying that if I wanted to take a trip to Europe, I could do so this summer, and pay for it on the installment plan. In our family work, particularly in the large centers, we have seen some very tragic situations. Many people are out of work who have never been before. So we have seen houses stripped of furniture. First the radio goes, then the living room, the dining room, and the bedroom things, and last of all the kitchen range. When the beds and the kitchen range go, then the people are forced into furnished quarters. We have seen some of the most heart-rending things this year, just through this habit of buying on the installment plan. How a man can figure that through the installment plan he can afford things he has never been able to save for, is a mystery to me. It is a strange thing that a young man who has never been able to buy a suit of clothes in his life gets it into his head that he can get married and support a wife and family. We do not think seriously enough about making preparation for marriage. We find also too many young women who are unprepared for homemaking and housekeeping, who cannot cook, and who do not know what is the right kind of food; who do not know how to remodel clothing, or darn, mend or patch; great arts which our mothers and grandmothers featured so in their lives. We wonder what is the matter 298 with the home and the school. I believe they are both guilty. I used to believe that everyone should have a college education, but I have changed my mind as I have grown older. So many young people who go to college are not interested, and waste their time and money. An article in Harper's Magazine advances the thought that the test for entering college should be whether or not you like to use your mind. There are some people who are very intelligent, and who love to study. These people should go to college. There are others who are very intelligent, but are practical minded, and do not like to spend all their time studying. These people should be trained to do other things. The mistake is made in our high schools. Most of these today are preparing people for college, not for life. I believe in vocational schools and trade schools, where young people can be prepared for life, instead of wasting years of their time in college, and probably in the end not be able to make the grade. Emphasis sometimes is placed on the wrong things. We were told today that our standards have raised so much. I believe that we try too much to pattern our life after other people's and are not original enough. We cannot all expect to copy the same pattern, or to live the same kind of lives. We should study our own resources and family, and try to live the best we can within our possibilities, and not try to do things that somebody else does who has a great deal more money than we have. We are not independent enough in our lives. Undoubtedly there is too much indifference today regarding religion and religious family life. We have been greatly surprised this winter to find among the many people in RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Salt Lake City who have come here for employment, so many who have little or no church attachment. They are not active and are just barely affiliated with the church, and they are raising their families in this condition. Closer family unity is needed. I would make a plea tonight for greater family solidarity. The Genealogical Society has done one of the best things we have ever done in the Church, and that is to establish family organizations. It originated with the temple work, and salvation for the dead, but we are getting wonderful results for the living, and I think we cannot do anything better than to be interested in these family organizations, and build up our family life and get back to the original religious standards of our parents and grandparents. I would like to suggest in closing that I think we ought to take stock of our lives and habits a little more frequently. A modern business man is supposed to know every night, or at least once a week, how his business stands. So I would make a plea that we find out how we are measuring up to the best standards. The health work today in the world is better than it has ever been, and after this depression I hope that our economic life will be more stable. Let us check over our affairs, and see how we are getting along, and what kind of plans we are living by. No doubt we will learn a great many practical economic lessons through this depression, just as we learned them during the war in-connection with health work. In closing I would make a plea for the observance of Church standards generally. The finest standards of living are the gospel standards, May we make them ours!  PRESIDENT HEBER