[Vol19 | May 1932 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: Mother Nephi Jensen]
Mother By Nephi Jensen The sweetest smile we've ever seen Lingered at the golden eventide On that fair face, kind and serene That watched at the cradleside.

The dearest song we've ever heard Lulled us to our first rest, Haunted us when we had erred, And inspired us to do our best.

The kindest heart that ever beat Was ever sad when we were sad; Bore the brunt of our first defeat And was so glad when we were glad.

The noblest deed that has been done Was wrought in the unending day By her who served in storm and sun, And gently kissed our tears away.

Stakes California................... 1,762 Canada........................ 1,340 Colorado...................... 467 Idaho......................... 8,336 Mexico........................ 179 Nevada........................ 709 Oregon........................ 221 Wyoming....................... 2,105 Missions Canada....................... 134 Europe........................ 4,690 Hawaii........................ 1,010 Mexico........................ 215 New Zealand................... 607 Samoa ........................ 267 South Africa.................. 129 Tonga......................... 130 Relief Society Conference Held April 6 and 7, 1932 By Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary The Annual Conference of the Relief Society was held April 6 and 7, 1932, in Salt Lake City, Utah.

President Louise Y. Robison presided.

The following sessions were held: an Officers' Meeting for general, stake and mission officers; two General Sessions, in the Tabernacle; six Department Meetings; and a reception for Stake Officers.

The Department Meetings featured were: Social Service Case Work Department, Work and Business Department, Social Service Lesson Department, Literary Department, Visiting Teacher Class Leaders' Department, and Theological Department.

They began at 8:30 a. M., and continued until 5 p. M., on Thursday, April 7th.

As no two were held simultaneously, the Relief Society women were enabled to attend all the sessions, which proved to be most satisfactory.

This was evidenced by the large groups at each department.

There was a large attendance of enthusiastic workers from 98 stakes and 7 missions.

The Officers' Roll Call at the Officers' Meeting showed the following representation: 21 General Board Members; 542 Stake and Mission Officers, including: Stake Presidents, 74; Counselors, 117; Secretary-treasurers, 48; Other Board Members, 296; Mission Presidents, 7. The Tabernacle was well filled at the two General Sessions on April 6th.

The evening session was an innovation, but very delightful.

The Relief Society was most appreciative of the rare opportunity of holding Conference on the anniversary of the organization of the Church.

The music for the Conference was outstanding.

The chorister, Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, led the congregational numbers.

Special solos were rendered by Mrs. Margaret Stewart Hewlett, and duets by Cannon Lund and Jessie Evans.

The work of the Relief Society chorus will long be remembered.

The high degree of artistry reached by this group of 200 women, was eloquent of the time and effort given in preparation.

The voices were drawn from the six Salt Lake City stakes.

The local groups practiced for months on the songs selected, and were then assembled in the final chorus under the very able leadership of Mrs. Charlotte Owen Sackett, who manifested the poise and skill of a great chorister.

A most interesting and educational feature of the Conference was the display in the Brigham Young Memorial Building of the work done at the Work and Business Meetings of the four Weber County Stakes, Ogden, Mount Ogden, North Weber and Weber.

There was almost every kind of article one could think of, from the remodeled clothing to the most exquisite art creations.

The quilts in themselves were a most wonderful exhibit.

Salt Lake and Liberty stakes gave some interesting demonstrations of painting and hand-craft.

Mrs. Marie Lederman was in attendance at her rooms in the Lion House, and gave instructions to class leaders in fine needlework and household arts.

Many lovely things made under her direction were shown.

A very pleasant service was rendered in the reception room pro278 vided for the conference visitors in the Brigham Young Memorial Building.

The reception to Stake Officers, held on the evening of April 7, in the Auditorium of the Bishop's Building, was one of the most sucRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE cessful social functions ever sponsored by the General Board.

The committee, under the chairmanship of Mrs. Emma A. Empey, spared no pains in making the event delightful.

Officers' Meeting Wednesday Morning, April 6th, 1932 PRESIDENT LOUISE Y. ROBISON There are so many marvelous things that you sisters have done during this last year that I do not believe I could control myself if I tried to tell you how we appreciate and love you for the service.

We have made many demands of you from the office.

Problems in your own localities have been so heavy, but in every instance you have come to the front, and done more than was expected of you.

We asked the four stakes in Weber County if they would give us a display of handwork taught in their Work and Business Meetings.

The splendid response to this request is in evidence in the wonderful exhibition in the Brigham Young Memorial Building.

I want to tell you how we appreciated your activity in the signature campaign for the National Council of Women?it has been marvelous.

One of the mission presidents wrote: "My wife is away in California, visiting with her daughter, but if you will send the petitions we will take care of them in her absence," which he has done.

In every stake there have been such splendid results.

We should like, at this point, to call special attention to the group of very fine speakers of national reputation, who will be here on April 13 and 14, in the interest of the 18th Amendment.

They are known as The Allied Campaigners, and are led by Dr. Daniel H. Poling: The efforts of this group have the hearty approval of President Grant, and we bespeak the interest of our Relief Society women in making their work successful here.

We are asked to circulate and sign a pledge.

It does not entail any financial responsibility.

It merely voices our belief that liquor should be abolished.

We have had a very few changes this year in our stake officers.

We are most grateful for this, as we are so happy to greet anew you sweet sisters who have worked long and untiringly.

It always gives us joy to meet new sisters in the group.

The following are the reorganizations we have to report: December, 1931, Gunnison Stake, Amelia A. Larson, released; Clarice J. Larson, appointed president.

January, 1932, Tintic Stake, Elizabeth Boswell, released; Vera Patten, appointed president.

March, 1932, Benson Stake, Effie A. Greene, released; Ethel B. Webb appointed president.

British Mission, Josephine B. Lund, released; Mrs. Douglas, appointed president.

We have had a very fine letter from Sister Widtsoe, of the European Mission, sending greetings from the European sisters.

She sent us "The Millennial Star," printed in French, Dutch and Scandinavian.

These contained full and beautiful messages from the Relief Society.

RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE The European Mission has a wonderful record.

The report shows that of the women membership of the Church, 53% are in attendance at Relief Society meetings.

Some of them reach as high as 73% but the average is 53 6/10ths?a very wonderful showing.

We have been most delighted in the response the sisters have made in sending in subscriptions to the Magazine.

A number of our wards have reached 100% or more, some of these in the smaller settlements, with very limited resources.

One report shows a membership of 19, with 22 subscriptions, another a membership of 45 with 52 subscriptions.

There are a number, too, who have 75% of their members who are subscribers for the Magazine.

This is very fine, and we know it is the efforts of the women who have accomplished it.

We would like to say a word about sending in material for the Magazine.

Some little things come into the office which must have been just ideal for the time they were written, but the interest is purely local.

It just about breaks the heart of the editor not to accept these things, but they have no general interest.

Sometimes we have little histories of some of our splendid women who have given such faithful service, but when the little sketch comes in to us, it is incomplete.

It does not give the thing you wanted to tell, the things you loved about her, you have rather felt that we knew these lovely things.

Our Magazine space is limited, and we cannot publish all of the little biographical sketches that we would like.

Every stake and ward president should see that her secretary has the history of the organization in the record book, In some places this 279 is magnificent.

There are also collected volumes of biographical sketches of the women who have held positions in Relief Society.

This is most valuable, and although they cannot be put in our record book, do preserve these sketches so rich in experience.

I believe the thing that has the strongest appeal to us now is our charity work.

We have had an experience this last year which I believe we have never had before.

Whether we will have another one next winter, is for the future to tell, but we must be prepared to meet the situation when it comes.

Before the stakes sent their aids here for training, we advised the wards to have aids as they seemed to need them.

In some places the ward aid was selected before we really knew what her duty should be.

Some ward aids are so capable and fine that the president of Relief Society could hardly carry the responsibility without her.

If you have such a ward aid, keep her, but if you have one whom you selected, and you find that she is not just the kind of woman for this place, and she could do better work elsewhere, release her.

I would like to have you feel in our organization that we all want to work in the place we can do the most good.

There are some of our ward aids who are taking all of the responsibility away from the ward presidents.

This is all wrong, and we would like you stake Relief Society presidents to see that the ward presidents understand that they are the head of the ward Relief Society, and that the ward aids are their aid, their help.

The ward aids should only come to help, to do the errands, and make the investigations for them, and the contact with the Bishop must be made through the ward president.

In some of our 280 wards these aids, who are very lovely women, but do not understand their place, go to the bishop, and the bishop and the ward aid.

Carry the whole responsibility.

In some cases we have asked the ward presidents what they were doing in charity, and they knew nothing about it.

They said that was taken care of by the ward aid and the bishop.

Now if the ward president is not able to carry this, it is a matter for you and the bishops and the stake president to decide.

We do not want our ward presidents to be too heavily burdened.

The conditions are a little different in the city stakes and in the country stakes.

The problems are different, and sometimes in the urban stakes the ward president requires help, and in others she can carry on without the help of an aid; if she can, that is the ideal condition, but keep your good ward aids if you feel that you really need them.

Oftentimes our presidents will say we have teachers, or we have aids, or we have class leaders who are not doing what they should do, what shall we do about it?

It is a big responsibility, but I believe it is one that we all have to face.

In the Book of Mormon you will find that the Lord says "It is better for one man to perish than that a whole nation dwindle in unbelief." I believe it is better for one woman to be removed from a place where she is not doing the work, as it should be done, than it is for the organization to be hampered.

I would beg of you, though, that you use the greatest love and tenderness, because some of these fine women, who really are feeling that they are doing the biggest things, are the ones that we would like to have put into another position.

Let us all feel that we want to work where we can do the most good.

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE In the bicentennial planting of trees?women have done so beautifully all over the Church, and we want to commend you for this.

I hope that your trees are all growing.

We shall be interested when we visit around in the different stakes, to see the Relief Society trees, and hope they are flourishing.

We have been asked to speak again on patronizing home industry.

We asked last fall that the stakes outside of Utah, Idaho for instance, would find out what Idaho produces, and as far as possible support the Idaho industries, and the same with the different states.

We hope you are carrying this into the home.

The women are the purchasers in most of the homes, so encourage them to ask for the home products.

I believe the thing that.

Is troubling most of our women is the Annual Dues.

We have had so many pathetic letters from our stake presidents in reference to this.

Now, sisters, we cannot lower our standards, we must still say that the Annual Due is fifty cents, but where conditions arise such as one that was reported to me yesterday, where a ward had deposited all its annual dues in the bank, and the bank failed, how can you go back to these women and ask for them again?

In so many localities the stake and ward funds were in the banks that have failed, and they cannot make the difference up.

Let us try to stimulate our women to keep to the standard of fifty cents, but stake officers carry this message to the ward officers, do not worry your hearts out because you cannot send in the 100%. I do not know just how long the General Board can carry things, but we can adjust as well as you can, so get as much as you feel you can, and hold your standards high, but do not worry because you have not your 100%. There are RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE some of us, I believe, as some business firms, who take advantage of situations.

I think some of the business firms are discharging help just because they can get behind this thought of depression.

We do not want this in Relief Society, we want every woman to feel the privilege of carrying her burden of the expense, but when you know conditions, do not worry about it.

Let these ward presidents know that we do not expect the impossible of them.

Carry a message of love back.

We had word from one of our stakes that some of the dear sisters said they would like their names taken from the record book because they could not pay their Annual Dues, 281 and they did not want to be carried as charity.

Do not let the sisters leave.

At this time we need the sisters, and they need Relief Society, and if it is not possible for them to pay, love them just a bit harder, and let them feel more at home in the organization than ever.

I believe, as I said before, that this is a time when we are all having our hearts touched, if it is not individually, it is our family, or our neighbors, and I believe the Relief Society is lifting this load, and let us not in any way allow our faithful women to feel that they are not the most welcome, even if they are not paying their Annual Dues.

MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND General Secretary It gives me great pleasure this morning, sisters, to give a brief summary of the Annual Report, which will be published in detail in the May Magazine.

As President Robison has indicated, from every stake and every mission in the 'Church, we have had splendid cooperation this year in the Relief Society work, whether it has been in the planting of trees, the conservation of food and clothing, or the most 'perfect attention paid to the detail in the secretaries' work.

And may I take this opportunity of expressing the very deep appreciation which the general office feels for the splendid work of the secretaries of our: Relief Society.

They have done marvelously fine work this year.

Each year the number of perfect reports increases.

With very few exceptions the errors that were made in the compiling of the stake and mission reports this year were very minor, showing that everywhere our sisters are keenly alive to this important work, and are meeting it with splendid results.

The following is a summarized statement of the Annual Report for 1931: Total Balance on 'Hand, January 1, 1931, $166,379.07; Total Receipts during 1931, $274,061.50; Total Balance on Hand and Receipts, $440,440. 57; Paid for Charitable Purposes, $116,448.17; Total Disbursements, $287,244.35; Total Balance, December 31, 1931, $153,196.22; Total Assets, $1,034,312.61; Ward Conferences held, 1,280; Teachers Visits made, 836,778; Visits to Sick and Homebound, 204,460. Membership in 1930, 64,225; in 1931, 66,884, an increase of 2,659. The membership includes, Executive and Special Officers, 11,047; Visiting: Teachers, 23,003; members, 32,834. Average attendance, 1930, 24,521; in 1931, 27,234, an increase of 2,713. Paid for Charitable Purposes in 1930, $109,493.19; in 1931, $116,448.17, an increase of $6,954.98. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE MRS. LOTTA PAUL BAXTER General Board Member A YEAR ago a friend, a helper, was issued from the press for the benefit of the workers of the Relief Society, and for those who loved the work.

This little book, very unpretentious, we called The Handbook of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.

It is a most unique publication.

It is divided into three parts.

The first part tells of the organization in Nauvoo, and the earliest history of the Relief Society.

In this division there is also the activities and our world work, the big things that we do sometimes in connection with other organizations.

It tells a marvelous story, covering a period of 90 years of our activities, very fascinating to read, and it furnishes you with all the historical facts that you need for your annual day celebration.

In this first part, or just following it, is a wonderful list of all of the Nauvoo enrollment.

This is a very interesting and unique feature, and I believe that many of you will be delighted to find out, when you get your book, if a relative of yours was one of the Nauvoo members of the Relief Society.

The second part contains short biographies of the seven presidents, and the third contains all of the rulings, methods of procedure, organization exactly how to conduct the Relief Society organization, the regular procedure of the meetings, and everything that any new member of the organization needs to know.

I want to say just a word about this work.

It was not compiled in a few months.

Minutes of ninety years had to be gone over, so that nothing of importance should be missed. ' I do not know how many copies we have, but I do hope there are enough for every one of you to have one.

It is in two bindings, cloth for 85c and paper for 60c. I hope you will avail yourselves of this rare opportunity to get this, one of the most unique histories of any woman's organization that has ever existed.

The second part?the biographies of our beloved presidents.

I wonder how much love and admiration must have been in the heart of the writer to have filled these biographies to overflowing with love.

As you read them you feel that you are in the presence of wonderful women, and that your life is enriched through ? having been acquainted with them.

Surely the finger of God selected these women.

Their beautiful lives are told in beautiful language, and they are so short that you can memorize them easily.

The work is a tribute to Sister Cannon that can hardly be surpassed.

In regard to Sister Lyman's work, how she did it I do not understand.

It is 'beautiful, comprehensive, covering every phase of Relief Society work,. I lovingly call it "The Little Book," and "My Faithful Friend," and it is both.

COUNSELOR AMY BROWN LYMAN WELVE years ago we held our first social service institute, with 63 representatives from 63 stakes.

Possibly today of 'that group there RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE are only about 6 who are working in the Relief Society.

I have counted four here this morning who were in that first class.

Due to the great turnover which this indicates, it has been necessary for us to repeat these institutes frequently, which we have been doing all along these twelve years.

Two years ago we decided to cover the 'Church again with institutes, by having 25 workers called in at a time.

We have held three to date, with 71 representatives.

This means that 71 stakes have 'been represented, while 33 stakes have not, as yet, sent delegates.

We had expected to have another institute early this year, but due to the depression and the unemployment situation, we felt that it was probably a wise thing to postpone it for a time.

The object of these institutes is to help us in our fundamental work, charity and health work.

We feel that very marvelous results have already followed the workers who have taken this course.

We have tried to describe the type of worker who should be sent to take the course, leaving it to the stakes to choose their own representative.

In some instances women have been sent who were not able to do the work after they went home, due to other duties or to illness.

There is also another thing that we have regretted in connection with this, and that is that in many instances the workers have not been used after they have gone home.; This has been true of every institute we have held, so we thought we would discuss the work a little this morning.

I believe that other agencies have been as interested in our workers as we have ourselves, and in some instances even more.

In some instances, where the Relief Society 283 stake presidency and board have not used the social service aid, the Red Cross, and other organizations, have been glad to use her.

I think it is probably because the Relief Society has not understood exactly the training that the workers have had.

The course of study which we have given these aids has consisted of sociology the study of human relations, which is the foundation for all social work; case work methods, with emphasis upon those fundamental principles underlying case work; lectures in health, mental hygiene, child welfare, social legislation; and a definite amount of required reading.

In our field work the students have visited social institutions in Utah, and have been required to do a certain amount of family case work under supervision in the Welfare Department.

At the close of the institute we gave each worker a copy of the instructions which had 'been sent to the stake presidents, as follows: 1. That the, stake worker who completes the Social Service Institute be designated as Social Service Aid, ' 2. That the Social Service Aid devote herself exclusively to social work, giving up all other positions in the auxiliaries.

Some workers have said they did not know they would have-to give up other work or they would not have come.

This is one of the provisions, because if these workers are to be really helpful in their communities, they will have to give up other things, particularly where they are used. 3. That her duties shall be: (a) To assist ward presidents or other ward workers with family problems such as making investigations, weighing information and facts, making budgets, and deciding 284 on general plans for needy families. (Note: Actual assistance in any case is to be given only upon request of the ward; in other words, any report as to need in any family should be referred to ward president, and method of procedure worked out with her.) The stake officers should not take up family work in the ward, and put in relief, without the knowledge of the ward president and the bishop.

We had a question just recently on that point.

It is not fair to the wards for the stake social service aid, or the stake president to go into the wards and put in relief without the knowledge of the ward presidency. (b) To give, from time to time, special instructions on family case work methods to ward presidents at union meeting. (Note: Actual local cases must not be discussed in union meeting, but privately with the ward president concerned. ) We have heard of some instances where actual cases have been discussed in Union Meeting, and we are very much opposed to that, and advise against it. (c) To make it a part of her work and duty to become acquainted with her community, and with state, county, and local resources; also with local officials and heads of community agencies, explaining the cooperation the Relief Society is prepared to give. (Note: in case of complicated situations, the stake Social Service Aid may, if she desires, consult the Welfare Department at Relief Society headquarters. ) (d) To assist ward presidents in contacting county officials and other social agencies.

We also tell these social service aids that we want them to study the history and background of the Relief Society.

We require them to read RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the handbook from cover to cover, in order to get the spirit of the work, and its complete detail.

We want them to learn about the social legislation in their state; then to know about the county work, the county resources and its provisions for caring for the poor.
