You can answer for yourselves, you can be thinking about these things. You can put into practice to a certain extent some of the things that have been here suggested. Another suggestion is that the building of roads, paving of streets, state improvement and national improvement that are not competitive, should be undertaken in hard times. I do not need to go into detail in the question of our tax situation. Taxes are too high, and yet we are faced with a situation that is more difficult. We realize that in 17 years, while the population of the United States increased 27% the budget for the Government increased 228%. We realize in 1913 the total cost of the national, state and local governments was two billion nine hundred million dollars, and in 1929 thirteen billion dollars. Or more than six times as much. Do. We realize that 70% of all the taxes are spent in the state and counties? The national Government 290 requires 30%. The cost of taxation has increased from $3 to $170 per capita. It is our business to try to remedy these conditions. As far as possible the responsibility for caring for unemployed has been localized in the various counties. Organizations have been set up to try and promote employment. They have succeeded fairly well. I think that this county has suffered more than any county in the state proportionately, and that is due to the fact that the plan which was proposed last fall failed in its purpose, and the unemployment was and still is quite serious in Salt Lake. After all such things as have been undertaken this past winter have been temporary. What we are concerned about is to provide some means whereby we can help stabilize conditions, avoid depression and maintain fairly prosperous conditions, at least for all who desire them. The Church itself has been doing all it can, and yet we are faced with the same conditions in a measure. In hard times the income of the Church is not as great as in good times. If we had the reserve we could proceed to do more work, which would help to bring employment and help provide necessary improvements that are required for the welfare of the people. The Church has been doing a great deal in the way of improving the meeting houses throughout the Church. It is a very helpful and desirable thing, but we are limited on account of the funds available. I am sure the Relief Society has been doing a tremendous work in seeing to it, under the direction of the bishoprics of the wards, that no one suffers for the necessities of life. I want you to understand that I do not feel that the Church is required from Church funds to take RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE care of everyone who is in need. I do not think it is necessary all the time to be handing cash or food supplies to those: who are in need. That is where social service comes in; to study the needs of the people, whether they be medical attention or other things, to help to advise the people to help themselves. It is not the business of the Church to take care of everyone who is in need. It is not to be expected that nonmembers of the Church should receive help from the Church, but the Church, through the Bishoprics and Relief Society can see to it that they do not suffer. They can be referred to the agencies who are responsible for their care. Therefore a question arises, to what extent should the Church be responsible for support, or financial aid to those who are inactive in Church affairs, who do nothing toward maintaining the Church, or toward active participation in Church activities? Is it reasonable that they should expect the Church to do very much toward rendering them financial aid? Surely they need advice, counsel, comfort and all that can be done in that respect. The Church has undertaken to do so much, but it is not reasonable to expect that they shall call upon the Church when the counties are, under the law, legally responsible to aid those in need. The Church feels the responsibility for the care of those who are faithful active members, and they can properly call upon the Church for help. The point is that there are very few of them who are in need,. Because faithful observance of the principles of the gospel, we find, is a means of blessing temporally as well as spiritually. I want to compliment the Relief Society on the splendid work it is doing; the fine training the sisters RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE are receiving in social service work is evident; the spirit of growth and judgment is now manifest. We have advised the Bishops through the Church that inasmuch as the Relief Society is working so efficiently, and is of such great help to them, that they refer all cases of 291 any kind needing advice or counsel to the Relief Society of the ward to investigate the conditions and report back to the bishopric as to what they think should be done. I compliment you, and I pray the Lord to bless and sustain you in your efforts in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Dr. Beeley's address will appear in the June issue of the Magazine. MRS. ANNIE WELLS CANNON Member of the General Board Sisters and Friends:, To Latter-day Saints the marvelous things that are happening in this changing world of ours are not so much of a surprise, because we believe in modern revelation, and that Joseph Smith was a true prophet of God, and while we may not be prepared, we knew these changes would come.; To me, one of the most marvelous changes during the last one hundred years has been the status of women. Victor Hugo said the 19th century was a woman's century, and recently a savant, in a lecture at our State University stated this was a woman's age and a matriarchy, if you please. Today the women of the Relief Society have reached the Parnassus of their dreams, and from the heights of achievement look across the years, so full of struggle, hope and faith, with joy and gladness in their hearts. How glorious it is that today, the 6th of April, the birthday of the Church, the Relief Society is holding a conference in this historic edifice, commemorating the anniversary of its organization, which took place 90 years ago, March 17, 1842, in Nauvoo, Illinois. On birthdays one bestows gifts and garlands and precious things. We bring here today fond memories of the gracious and beloved women in whose footsteps we have tried to walk. Sweet is their memory, and rich our heritage. As we look along the years many figures and beloved faces pass before us, whose outstanding work has been an inspiration and a blessing to the women of the Church, not only those who have held high office, but in every group in each community of our people are women whom we recall, whose unselfish labors and daily acts of kindness have brought blessed comfort to the weary and distressed?women who never complained of the thorns along the wayside, but thanked God for the roses,. Women from every walk of life enlisting in this great cause, and carrying on its traditions. The very fact that the humblest and the least among us is just as welcome in our ranks as the highest and most learned, is the Christ-like step to human equality and love. On birthday occasions, one becomes reminiscent, and though it is an old, old story, often told of the first meeting of the Relief Society in the Masonic Hall in Nauvoo, let us call to mind the picture, quaint, dignified, unusual. That occasion held many points which, for. Broadness of vision, and the very newness of things, are most remarkable. 292 The assembly. Itself, eighteen women selected to become leaders to the women of the Church. Young, they were, the oldest present, Elizabeth Ann Whitney, 41 years old, and Bathsheba W. Smith the youngest, not yet 20, yet these young women displayed both moral courage and executive ability in the deliberations of that occasion, standing their grounds and stating their reasons in the selection of a name for the society, and the election of officers, before the brethren who were there present. It might start a new thought in your mind to state here that the first written word, at least in modern times, given out to women to make a study of, and conduct their meetings according to parliamentary procedure, was given on that day, March 17, 1842, by the Prophet Joseph Smith. That is something of a challenge, but I believe it is a fact, and if you care to analyze the thought in view of the fact of the great advancement of women everywhere, let it be a testimony to you of the vision of the Prophet when he said, "You are to conduct your meetings according to parliamentary law," and then proceeded to instruct them with a demonstration. At this first meeting were laid down the fundamental principles or foundation stones on which the Relief Society has! Built and functioned throughout its 90 years. The Prophet said, "Provoke the brethren to good works in looking to the wants of the poor, searching after objects of charity, and administering to their wants; to assist by correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of the community." There was further instruction about the duties of officers, keeping of records, and later providing work for the unemployed, and the beginning RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of a fund, exhorting the women to prepare themselves by prayer and study to be examples of virtue and wisdom to the women of the Church. So far as I can see, all the most worthwhile things in women's organizations of this day were outlined on that day, 90 years ago. The Prophet further said, as a benediction to these women: "I now turn the key to you in the name of God, and this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time." Oh, my beloved sisters, what a promise, what a gift was there! How precious ought the Relief Society to be in the heart of every Latter-day Saint woman, and it should give a testimony forever of the divinity of his mission. Did the key turn just for this group of 18 women? No! Not for just the women of the Church, but for all womankind. Mark the advancement of women everywhere from that time on. It was like a wave of new thought vibrating round the earth. Guided by the Priesthood, and stimulated by faith, the women of the Relief Society have maintained the ideals and traditions of the past in their onward march of progress and advancement towards the present day. They endured the persecutions and the sufferings of the early days, with the hardships. And privations of the migrations of the Church, the toil and labor of pioneer life; shared all the struggles in the making of homes, gardens and cities; assisted in the establishment of schools, factories and industries; gleaned and stored grain; built Relief Society halls and granaries; founded hospitals and nurse schools; established stores and a woman's paper; worked for suffrage, temperance and peace; in fact to all great movements for advancement in the world they have RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE given their earnest support, and today this great army of over 66,000 women, linked by ties eternal, gratefully acknowledge the labors of the women of the past, and for a birthday gift, pledge their allegiance and devotion with a prayer and a prophecy that greater and mightier accomplishments are yet to follow. A sisterhood founded by a prophet, through revelation from on high, sustaining all righteousness, such is the organization of the Relief Society. It has not a parallel in all the world. God bless the Relief Society! MRS. NETTIE D.