MRS. ANNIE WELLS CANNON Member of the General Board Sisters and Friends:, To Latter-day Saints the marvelous things that are happening in this changing world of ours are not so much of a surprise, because we believe in modern revelation, and that Joseph Smith was a true prophet of God, and while we may not be prepared, we knew these changes would come.; To me, one of the most marvelous changes during the last one hundred years has been the status of women. Victor Hugo said the 19th century was a woman's century, and recently a savant, in a lecture at our State University stated this was a woman's age and a matriarchy, if you please. Today the women of the Relief Society have reached the Parnassus of their dreams, and from the heights of achievement look across the years, so full of struggle, hope and faith, with joy and gladness in their hearts. How glorious it is that today, the 6th of April, the birthday of the Church, the Relief Society is holding a conference in this historic edifice, commemorating the anniversary of its organization, which took place 90 years ago, March 17, 1842, in Nauvoo, Illinois. On birthdays one bestows gifts and garlands and precious things. We bring here today fond memories of the gracious and beloved women in whose footsteps we have tried to walk. Sweet is their memory, and rich our heritage. As we look along the years many figures and beloved faces pass before us, whose outstanding work has been an inspiration and a blessing to the women of the Church, not only those who have held high office, but in every group in each community of our people are women whom we recall, whose unselfish labors and daily acts of kindness have brought blessed comfort to the weary and distressed?women who never complained of the thorns along the wayside, but thanked God for the roses,. Women from every walk of life enlisting in this great cause, and carrying on its traditions. The very fact that the humblest and the least among us is just as welcome in our ranks as the highest and most learned, is the Christ-like step to human equality and love. On birthday occasions, one becomes reminiscent, and though it is an old, old story, often told of the first meeting of the Relief Society in the Masonic Hall in Nauvoo, let us call to mind the picture, quaint, dignified, unusual. That occasion held many points which, for. Broadness of vision, and the very newness of things, are most remarkable. 292 The assembly. Itself, eighteen women selected to become leaders to the women of the Church. Young, they were, the oldest present, Elizabeth Ann Whitney, 41 years old, and Bathsheba W. Smith the youngest, not yet 20, yet these young women displayed both moral courage and executive ability in the deliberations of that occasion, standing their grounds and stating their reasons in the selection of a name for the society, and the election of officers, before the brethren who were there present. It might start a new thought in your mind to state here that the first written word, at least in modern times, given out to women to make a study of, and conduct their meetings according to parliamentary procedure, was given on that day, March 17, 1842, by the Prophet Joseph Smith. That is something of a challenge, but I believe it is a fact, and if you care to analyze the thought in view of the fact of the great advancement of women everywhere, let it be a testimony to you of the vision of the Prophet when he said, "You are to conduct your meetings according to parliamentary law," and then proceeded to instruct them with a demonstration. At this first meeting were laid down the fundamental principles or foundation stones on which the Relief Society has! Built and functioned throughout its 90 years. The Prophet said, "Provoke the brethren to good works in looking to the wants of the poor, searching after objects of charity, and administering to their wants; to assist by correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of the community." There was further instruction about the duties of officers, keeping of records, and later providing work for the unemployed, and the beginning RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of a fund, exhorting the women to prepare themselves by prayer and study to be examples of virtue and wisdom to the women of the Church. So far as I can see, all the most worthwhile things in women's organizations of this day were outlined on that day, 90 years ago. The Prophet further said, as a benediction to these women: "I now turn the key to you in the name of God, and this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time." Oh, my beloved sisters, what a promise, what a gift was there! How precious ought the Relief Society to be in the heart of every Latter-day Saint woman, and it should give a testimony forever of the divinity of his mission. Did the key turn just for this group of 18 women? No! Not for just the women of the Church, but for all womankind. Mark the advancement of women everywhere from that time on. It was like a wave of new thought vibrating round the earth. Guided by the Priesthood, and stimulated by faith, the women of the Relief Society have maintained the ideals and traditions of the past in their onward march of progress and advancement towards the present day. They endured the persecutions and the sufferings of the early days, with the hardships. And privations of the migrations of the Church, the toil and labor of pioneer life; shared all the struggles in the making of homes, gardens and cities; assisted in the establishment of schools, factories and industries; gleaned and stored grain; built Relief Society halls and granaries; founded hospitals and nurse schools; established stores and a woman's paper; worked for suffrage, temperance and peace; in fact to all great movements for advancement in the world they have RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE given their earnest support, and today this great army of over 66,000 women, linked by ties eternal, gratefully acknowledge the labors of the women of the past, and for a birthday gift, pledge their allegiance and devotion with a prayer and a prophecy that greater and mightier accomplishments are yet to follow. A sisterhood founded by a prophet, through revelation from on high, sustaining all righteousness, such is the organization of the Relief Society.