
The RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Volume XXI FEBRUARY, 1934 No. 2

SHIRTS LAUNDERED As "He" likes them!
Royal DeLuxe Semi Starch Styles Full Starch Medium Starch No Starch Summer Suits Laundered Silk Shirts washed and ironed by hand, best of materials used Shirts Cash and Carry 12½c each at 22 E. 2 So. And 14 W. Main St. And 625 So. State St.

ROYAL LAUNDRY Was. 2624 625 So. State St.

A NEW EUREKA WITH MOTOR-DRIVEN BRUSH LIGHT—EASY TO HANDLE AGREEABLY QUIET

This sensational new Eureka with motor-driven brush is designed to meet the requirements of those who desire a motor-driven brush but recognize the necessity of "High Vacuum" (powerful suction) for the thorough removal of embedded dirt. Unnecessary weight and awkward size have been carefully avoided. It is quiet—agreeably quiet.

The demonstration! It is spectacular — sensational — thrilling. Embedded soda fairly "boils" from the rug. Sand dances— how it dances! Surface litter — lint, hair and threads — are instantly removed by its motor-driven brush. This new Eureka cleans faster—cleans better.

$5.00 Down—Balance on Easy Terms Phone for Demonstration

Eureka Vacuum Cleaner Co. Salt Lake City, Utah 177 East Broadway Phone Wasatch 4764

You'll like the CLEANLINESS of a modern Natural Gas RANGE

The cleanliness starts at the burners. Utensils stay bright and shining through long service. Burners lift out easily, so that all trace of boiled-over foods may be quickly washed away. Automatic lighting at a turn of the valve is another advantage. Automatic oven heat regulation means new ease and certainty in cooking. And the new gas ranges have been given leadership in beauty and style.

With all their advantages is the old-fashioned economy of Natural Gas. Come and see the new ranges. Learn also about the economy of Natural Gas for house-heating, water-heating and refrigeration.

UTAH GAS & COKE CO. OGDEN GAS CO. WASATCH GAS CO.

When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Vol. 21 FEBRUARY, 1934 No. 2

CONTENTS Portrait of Dr. Grace Raymond Hebard Frontispiece
When Little Things have Fortified the Way Bertha A. Kleinman 69
A Pathbreaker in Woman's Activities Lorene Pearson 71
The Mirage (Prize Poem with Portrait of the Author) Roxana T. Hase 76
Anne Brent, Helpmate Elsie C. Carroll 78
Not Too Late Bertha Tolman Gardner 81
Your Home Beautiful Mabel Margaret Luke 82
A Working Plan Mildred Tobler 88
Pioneer Sugar Ezra J. Poulsen 90
Happenings Annie Wells Cannon 91
Relief Society Pageant 92
Building a Diet Lucy Rose Middleton 93
One Eventful Night Isabelle Blake 95
A Prayer Elsie E. Barrett 97
For Young Mothers Holly Baxter Keddington 98
Notes from the Field 99
Notes to the Field 102
Editorial—A Valuable Practice 104
1933 a Record Year for Women 105
New Books 106
Our Handbook 107
Sorrow Carrie Tanner 107
Lesson Department 108
Treat the Members of Your Family Like Strangers Vera L. Plant 126

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone Wasatch 3540 Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.25 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.

When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine

L. D. S. GARMENTS FOR ALL SEASONS Selected from our extensive line of L. D. S. Garments we suggest the following numbers for all seasons wear:

No. 1 New Style, ribbed light weight. No. 56 Part wool, ribbed unbleached. Combed Cotton. An excellent Our best selling wool number. Ladies' number $1.25 Men's new or old style $.300

No. 2 Old style, ribbed light weight No. 6 Light weight garment, cotton, our standard garment 1.25 Ladies' new style or old style 1.10

No. 3 Ribbed medium weight cotton, No. 7 Light weight Spring and bleached. Our all season number. Autumn garment. Men only 1.00 Men's new or old style 1.45

No. 4 Ribbed heavy weight. Un- No. 8 Light weight silk for ladies bleached cotton. Our double only, new style only 1.15 back number. Men's new or old style 1.50 No. 9 Medium weight. Silk for men and women, new style only 1.75

No. 5 Part wool, ribbed unbleached. No. 10 Ladies' new style light weight. Our best selling wool number. 1/3 wool 1.75 Men's new or old style $.300

No. 11 Ladies' new or old style medium weight. Part wool, silk stripe 1.50

In ordering, be sure to specify whether old or new style garments, short legs and sleeves or ankle length legs, are wanted. Also give bust measure, height and weight to insure perfect fit. Postage prepaid on orders accompanied by money order in United States. Special discount to missionaries.

Our Jack Frost Blankets are made of Utah Wool and Utah Labor Write for Prices

FACTORY TO YOU—THE ORIGINAL Utah Woolen Mills Briant Stringham, Manager 28 Richards Street One-Half Block South of Temple Gates

NEW HEADQUARTERS FOR LATTER-DAY SAINT GARMENTS FROM FACTORY TO YOU We Solicit Your Mail Orders

No. 88. Light Weight Men's and Ladies' No. 87. Light Weight Old and New New Style $.65 Styles 85

No. 89. Medium Weight Men's and Ladies' No. 100. Light Weight Fine Grade Flat New Style 1.10 Knit Ladies' Only 85

No. 80. Heavy Weight Men's Double No. 84. Medium Light Weight Men's and Back 1.35 Ladies' New Style 85

No. 81. Heavy Weight Old Style No. 85. Very Special Non-Run Garments—Guaranteed—Not To Double Back 1.50 Run Rayon. Special 1.15

Specify when ordering, your bust trunk and length, whether new or old style, and if men's or ladies'. We Pay Postage Anywhere in the United States.

MOSE LEWIS SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

Complete Suits for Men and Women—Children's Clothing a Specialty Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail, Telephone and Telegraph Orders Temple and Burial Clothes Variety of Grades and Prices

GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY Open Daily—9 a. m. To 5 p. m. Telephone Wasatch 3286 29 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City, Utah

When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
THREE BROTHERS, OR THREE WISE MEN, ZION NATIONAL PARK
Socially Correct and Always Appropriate
Congratulations by Postal Telegraph
Whether it be to the happy mother and proud father of the baby just arrived... Or to someone whose birthday it is today... Or to the joyful couple just married... Or to dear friends who are celebrating their wedding anniversary —
the congratulatory telegram* is always appropriate and appreciated. Moreover, it is extremely easy to send a telegram— just go to your telephone, ask the operator for Postal Telegraph, and dictate your message — the charges will appear on your regular telephone bill.
* Congratulatory telegrams are delivered on specially designed blanks in special envelopes.
THE INTERNATIONAL SYSTEM Postal Telegraph Commercial Cables Mackay Radio All America Cables
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
HOW to increase YOUR LIFE EARNINGS
Charts prepared by Edward W. Lord, Dean of the College of Business Administration at Boston University, show that the high school graduate earns a total life income of $78,000.00. The graduate of the college or technical school earns a total life income of $150,000.00.
A college-grade business course, after high school, will help you in securing a beginning position, and increase your life earnings. Many graduates of this school now hold responsible executive positions.
Write or call L. D. S. Business College for further details of our plan for training and placing high school graduates in the field of business.
Address L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE SALT LAKE CITY
A Visit to our School Will Convince You—
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
When Little Things have Fortified the Way By Bertha A. Kleinman
The weighty tasks of power and endurance, I am not called to shoulder every day, These I shall meet with courage and assurance, When little things have fortified the way.
The ensigns lifted over spire and steeple, The hero strokes that blazon land and sea, The sacrifice for kindred, tongues and people, Are not for toilers of the soil like me.
For me the little wearisome exactions, The grilling, drilling hourly demand, The duty filled and beauty drained transactions, That over yet and over must be planned.
'Tis thus the threads are felted into cable, The timbered coil that harnesses the sea; To do at best the little I am able, I shall not fail when big things summon me.
DR. GRACE RAYMOND HEBARD
The Relief Society Magazine Vol. XXI FEBRUARY, 1934 No. 2
A Path-Breaker in Woman's Activities By Lorene Pearson
WE THINK of pioneers as those brave men and women who took household goods, weapons and a plough and trekked out into the wilderness to establish homes. But there were others, quite as fearless and as tenacious of purpose as these frontiersmen. They were the trailmakers in the fields of activity for women— brave pioneers in a new world.
Among these women there are none, perhaps, more worthy of the name of "pathbreaker" than Dr. Grace Raymond Hebard. A child of rugged pioneers she had trekked her way courageously into new fields for the fairer sex, step by step, to the head of the Department of Political Economy, Finance and Sociology in the University of Wyoming.
It was with this knowledge of the distinguished woman that I drew near Old Main Building on the University campus. Students were hurrying to classes, tripping up the old stone steps with the enviable enthusiasm of youth. Then I noticed a woman, walking along at the same rapid pace, a familiar brief case held firmly under her arm. She was as eager in attitude as the students but there was a difference; every movement spoke of accomplishment, of the joy of extended determination in spite of obstacles. Only this aspect of ardent life-long activity set her apart from the younger men and women hurrying to eight o'clock classes. Carrying her seventy years very lightly upon her shoulders Dr. Grace Raymond Hebard ascended the steps and disappeared into Old Main Building.
Climbing the stairs to her rooms on the second floor, I reviewed what I knew of her life. At the age of nine she was left fatherless on the frontier of Iowa. And although she had the advantage of an unusual spiritual influence, her father having been a minister, she also had the disadvantage that attends a family of a missionary—little remuneration for services. By dint of much management the mother and her four children moved to the University town of Iowa where the children were educated.
AT a very early age Grace Hebard recognized the limitations set upon the activities of women; it was an unheard of ambition that a girl should want to or should even be able to compete in the economic world with men. But here was a vast field, a wilderness to women, why not strike out and break a path for others to follow? Once her mind was made up nothing could deter her from fighting the thing through to its conclusion—a necessary attribute to the successful pioneer.
Her first definite step in this direction was to register in the University in the College of Engineering. This action was attended by the usual doubts and admonishings that attend every new movement. But without swerving in the least from her purpose the young woman graduated in 1882, receiving the first Bachelor of Science degree ever given to a woman by that institution. She was employed immediately in the Capitol of Wyoming at Cheyenne, as a draftsman in the Surveyor General's office. But she was not content—pioneers never are—with just one new achievement, not when there were so many things that needed doing in the new state.
Gradually her interest became active in educational affairs. She was appointed a trustee for the University of Wyoming and removed to Laramie, having completed nine years of service as a draftsman. She was the first woman to be a trustee of Wyoming's institution of higher learning; another break into the wilderness of activities for women Miss Hebard received a Doctor of Philosophy degree from Illinois Wesleyan in 1893 in preparation for her future services to the University. She has been with the University to the present time, first as trustee, then as librarian, teacher and professor and finally as head of the Department of Political Economy and Finance.
Standing on the landing for a moment out toward the Snowy Range glistening in the morning sunlight 12,000 feet above the tides, I recalled the numberless activities she had undertaken in addition to her teaching and executive work. In 1898 she was admitted to the Wyoming bar, the first woman to have the privilege of practicing law in the state; in 1914 she was accorded the right to appear before the Supreme Court of the state. And not all these activities were confined to serious fields; she was the first woman to hold golf and tennis championships in the state.
NOT long after her arrival at the University she turned her interest to the undeveloped field of Wyoming and Western history and Government, with special emphasis on their educational value. There was obviously a great need for histories and Civics to provide the school children and students with lore of their own west and state. Perceiving this need Dr. Hebard set out upon the tremendous task of alleviating it. Indefatigably she continued her research, here and there wherever a clue led her. She traveled to interview people, to locate diaries, letters, pictures for her books. As a result she published Pathbreakers From River to Ocean, which has gone through its sixth edition, testifying to the gap it filled in the educational world. Other texts on Civics and Government of Wyoming, and references for teaching history by counties in the state were added to her lists.
A story is told of a trip she made to the town of Lander, Wyoming, a long trip in the time of teams and wagons. Dr. Hebard maintained that Thomas Fitzpatrick was the first white man to cross the Rocky Mountains, South Pass, near Lander, is not obviously a low point and might easily be crossed without the realization that the back-bone of the mountains had been reached. Clues in her research led Miss Hebard to the conclusion that Fitzpatrick had gone over South Pass without realizing it. To test this theory out for herself, she hired a team and buggy and was driven over the Pass. Even when she was looking for it she did not know when the high point was reached and descent begun on the west slope. Her theory was entirely tenable. This is a sample of her thoroughness in investigation.
HER later years have been employed, outside the heavy schedule of teaching, in preparing books of research on early western history. Her latest and ninth book, Sacajawea, has just come off the press. The story of the Indian woman guide to the famous expedition of Lewis and Clark in 1804-06 is one of thrilling interest. Practically nothing was known of Sacajawea after she left the employ of the Captains until Dr. Hebard disclosed her later years, her burial place in Wyoming and her unknown record of service to the United States in the second half of her life, in this unique book.
I recalled as I came to the door of her office an interesting story connected with her earlier life. Her publisher, wishing to confer on certain problems in connection with her text books, came one day to her Laramie residence. Dr. Hebard answered the door. "I have come," said the gentleman, "to see Dr. Hebard. I wonder if he is in." Even when told he could not believe that a woman had been writing the books on American government and civics, or that a woman should have a Doctor of Philosophy degree, nor that one so young could have either distinction. It was a commentary on the unusualness of Dr. Hebard's achievements.
I could readily understand the publisher's incredulity as I opened the door and faced this woman pathbreaker. But once inside there seemed nothing at all unusual about the matter. Dr. Hebard "belonged." The unusual aspect lay in her own determination and hard work. She was busily at work on a new book, her shoulders still erect, as I came in. Her plain, neat suit suggested that her major interest was in other things than self-adornment. On a chair nearby lay the brief case that is familiar to all who meet her on the street or on the walks between the Campus and her home. On the walls were innumerable maps, some of her own drafting. An old ox-yoke, relic of the great westward migration, took its place against the wall with rows of books. Out of the windows could be seen the rugged mountains that border the high Laramie Valley on all but one side. It was significant that Dr. Hebard should be connected with the University placed highest in altitude in the United States; beyond the edge of the town the country had a wild, unconquered aspect, quite the setting for a woman who welcomed struggles as necessary to any career of distinction.
DR. HEBARD rose from her work, a straight, wiry woman, energy in every movement. In a crisp, concise voice, used so long to command attention, she asked my mission. Many years of interruptions had left no irritation to my request for an interview. We were seated immediately ready to begin our talk. I realized almost instantly that here was no dreamer. Her hands were long and capable, the hands of the craftsman, handling the instruments of the engineer. Her features had the keenness of the practical people who pioneered successfully as the frontiers moved westward. Seven generations ago an adventuring forefather landed at Salem, Massachusetts. The ruggedness and perseverance of the successive generations of frontiersmen were all written in the face of Dr. Hebard.
When I ventured that the doors of most professions had been closed to women when she began her career, she replied in that delightful vein of humor that runs through her conversation, "The doors hadn't yet been pushed open by women, that was all."
BEHIND this facetious remark I caught a glimpse of the indomitable spirit that makes for greatness. No man or woman has had distinction come to them without infinite labor, great sacrifices and above all the determination to accomplish a task set out to do. And added to this the courage to branch out into new fields. She said to me, "Many people today think there are no more opportunities to pioneer since free land has all been fenced in. The fields of thought and science and history have scarcely been scratched; education has much to offer for the person interested in the improvement of teaching; I could go on indefinitely in almost any direction and point out new things to be done."
Confronting her there behind the manuscripts and notes on her desk I felt the truth of her words; when she was young there must have been many people who could see no opportunities. And although my first impression of Dr. Hebard—that she was no dreamer—, still seemed true, I could see that she had vision; only foresight could have guided her to so many distinguished accomplishments.
I asked, "What has been your guiding principle through your life?"
"Investigation," she said. "I have believed nothing until I have worked it out for myself." Her alert expression, her capable hands lying restlessly among her papers combined to give substantiality to her words. How many people, I thought, accept the dictates of others without questioning the advisability of following them. She continued, "As long as you imitate someone else you are not progressing. If you want to get ahead and do something worthwhile, you will have to use your own initiative. I suppose it has something to do with faith in the validity of your own ideas."
After a moment's reflection she added, "But don't think branching out for yourself is easy. The paths through primeval forests have usually been laboriously hewn out with a hand ax."
We were interrupted by one of her students. He had come in with a clipping which carried information he thought he might like to work on in the historical field. Dr. Hebard encouraged him, as inspired teachers can, to go on with his interest. He went out afire with a vision of his project. It cannot be adequately reported how much enthusiasm for work comes from association with this woman. To be in her presence for a few moments is to leave, potent with stimulation to set out on a new path with zeal and joy. It was evident that here was no ordinary teacher; here was an urgent force that inspired better effort.
Later I had the rare privilege to be admitted to Dr. Hebard's house. It is a quaint roomy structure painted in a soft gray with a bright rust colored roof; symbolic, I thought, of the beauty and wisdom of her years of work, gray—thoughtful, and of her never failing freshness and eagerness of the student just beginning life, bright—visionary. Inside the house there is the instant atmosphere of repose, the comforting quiet of a refuge. On the walls are rare pictures of historical value, and works of art. Bright Indian rugs are scattered on the floor before easy chairs that invite the beholder to pause and read the rare books in the bookcases by the door.
I KNEW that every Christmas the house became gay with the laughter of young girls. It has become a tradition that all the girls in the dormitories who are unable to go to their own homes for the holidays are to have Christmas dinner with Dr. Hebard. After the feast there is a picture show and then candy-making in the kitchen of the gray house with the bright rust-colored roof. But the real heart of the house is Dr. Hebard's study. Here, in what her housekeeper calls "the jungle," are the multitudinous notes of the book she is engaged upon. Here, in the mellowed late afternoon light, you sense the sweetness of the hours of patient work she has devoted to the saving of historical treasures. On her desk lay a volume of Sacajawea, just from the publisher. It was the result of thirty years of work and many of the hours spent in its preparation were consummated here, in the heart of her house. From the window of the study is a view of her lovely garden, cultivated with great difficulty in this high altitude, but flourishing, as everything that she has touched.
It was obvious that all these accomplishments, the books, the active interests in suffrage, the garden, the tireless and endless help given to students, came not from an idle life. She must have spent tremendous effort every day of her existence to have realized them all. "Yes," she admitted, "I've wasted no time sleeping in the mornings."
She showed me some of her most priceless historical treasures. Turning the leaves of the remarkable diary of John Hunton, a man who was directly connected with Fort Laramie on the Oregon trail for many years, a glow of satisfaction colored her face. "There is great happiness," she said, "in knowing that you have saved something of value from obscurity. Perhaps that is the chief reward of the pathbreaker, because, of course, he is a discoverer."
[THIS IS FIGURE: The image shows "The Shoshone Indians gathered to hear Dr. Hebard give the dedicatory address at the unveiling of the tablet for the Bishop Randall Chapel (the log building in the picture) in commemoration of the day in 1873 when the famous Bishop himself baptized four of Sacajawea's grandchildren"]
The Mirage By Roxana T. Hase Awarded Second Prize in the Eliza Roxey Snow Poetry Contest
Around me miles and miles of trackless sands, Glistening, sifted, wasted, desert lands. My throat grows parched, death stalks my weary wake When through half-blinded eyes I glimpse a lake.
A lake! God grant that I may reach its brink And in its cooling depths my hot face sink To wet my lips, my throat, my red-rimmed eyes, I summon flagging strength to gain the prize
But ever just ahead it beckons me Elusive as the white-caps of the sea. Baffled, I fall; Dear God, must I die so? Never again a cooling draught to know?
Shall desert vultures feed on me ere night? In fancy now I see their circling flight. I, who so love this life, I cannot die Here on these wretched wastes alone to lie
And bleach until white phantom hands Stretch forth and cover me with drifting sands I clutch at glistening grains, desperately crawl Till flesh can stand no more, blindly I fall.
Is this the end? I feel my senses reel Crazily, like a ship with broken keel. This then, is death: Oblivion wraps me 'round My blanket, blazing sky, my couch, the torrid ground.
Then suddenly a cry, and someone tips A canteen to my parched and swollen lips, Cools my hot face; my throbbing, aching brow, I struggle slowly back from chaos to the now
Still thinking of that lake, then as my senses clear I know: 'Tis the mirage, the desert traveler's fear! How like mirages are the things of life So near and yet so far, so filled with strife.
Success seems brightly glittering just ahead But when we reach that spot we find it fled. Passions, fortunes, pleasures, mirages all are they Vain hollow nothings beckoning us astray
Until we quaff that all-sustaining draught— Salvation's Truths—all else must come to naught. The worthwhile things are added when we've learned To follow Him whose teachings once were spurned.
ROXANA T. HASE
Anne Brent, Helpmate By Elsie C. Carroll III
ANNE spent a sleepless night after Suzanne's special delivery letter came, but in the morning her mind was made up. She must go to Boston at once. She must get there before the evening of September first when the Anaconda was to sail—with Suzanne and that professor who had made her believe that companionate marriage was the only kind in which one could keep the individual soul "free and inviolate."
The letter had said: "Mother this is the only time in my life it has ever been hard for me to write to you. You have always been so understanding I could feel sure you would know what I meant even if I didn't know how to say it. But I can't feel sure that I can make you understand what I must tell you now. But I want to make you understand, Mother, for I don't want to hurt you and Daddy.
"I have told you something about Hugo —Prof. Loring, the exchange professor who has been teaching here the last quarter. I wish you knew him, Mother. He is wonderful! He sees life in such a big, broad way—not in the petty, personal way most of us look at it. He realizes how important it is for the growth of the individual, for one to rise above the restraints of the little conventions and traditions that choke and smother most lives, and keep them from reaching the heights they might attain.
"If you could only hear him talk, you would thrill to the new outlook he gives to life, as I do. He has made me want to be true to my highest possibilities. He has made me determined to keep my soul and my life free and he has helped me find the strength to meet the consequences of my convictions.
"Mother, I am going to Europe with Hugo. We have been drawn to each other since the first time we met. We have discovered that we are soul mates; that we can stimulate and each help the other in the career that will bring our fullest development. He will bring me in contact with the great artists of the old world, and I will have opportunities I have never dreamed of.
"That is just what you want for me isn't it? You and father have worked and sacrificed to give me this year in Boston, and I do appreciate it. Without it I never would have known what my possibilities are. I would never have found Hugo nor the courage to be a free soul.
"This is the part that I am afraid will hurt you and Dad. We are not going to be married in the ordinary way. That would cheapen a love like ours. It would bind and hamper our freedom. Our love is our marriage bond. We don't need any other, and if we imposed one upon ourselves, it would destroy some of the beauty of our complete trust in each other. Ours will be the most sacred of all ties because it will be free.
"We will sail on the Anaconda, September the first at 10 o'clock in the evening. I am sending this airmail, special delivery, hoping to receive your blessing before I go. You will try to understand, won't you Mother, and help Dad to see that it is all right.
"I love you all and I don't want to make you unhappy, but I must be true to myself—and to Hugo.
"Give me your blessing mother, and tell me it is all right
"Suzanne."
All right! Those words had taken the form of a great chasm into which Suzanne was about to fall. Anne had paced her room trying to decide what to do. She couldn't explain a thing like that in a telegram to Peter. If she merely wired for him to come home, what good could that do? If she waited for him to come, it would be too late to do anything. But how she needed Peter. She needed the strength and the calmness he always commanded in times of crises. Her mind went back across the years since they first discovered Suzanne's gift. How they had planned and saved to give her her chance! And it had led to this. Why did life play such queer pranks on people?
At times during the long night, Anne would feel hysteria coming upon her. She couldn't endure the thought of her little girl three thousand miles away on the brink of this ruin. Then she would force herself into calm thinking. She must decide what was best to do. She composed telegrams and feverish letters. But she tore them up. There seemed to be only one thing to do. That was to try to reach her girl before it was too late; to see her and talk to her, to make her comprehend what she was doing.
As soon as it was morning, Anne began making her preparations. She called Jim Harker, the manager of the store, and told him she must have some money, that Suzanne was not well and she must go to Boston. She phoned for a reservation on the train and arranged for her ticket. She packed her traveling bag. She made out a schedule for each of the children—things for which they must be responsible. When Gloria and Quint came down, surprised at being called earlier than usual, she made the same explanation that she had to Jim, "Suzanne isn't well. I am going to Boston."
"And she seemed so happy in her last letter" exclaimed Gloria, "raving about her French professor. What's the matter?"
"I hope it isn't as serious as it seems," Anne answered evasively.
ALTHOUGH most of Anne's mind was employed with her anxiety about Suzanne, there was a little corner of it still worrying about Quint. Would he have added temptations with her and his father both away? Would his bed be empty at three or four o'clock in the morning? Anne sometimes thought that the joys of parenthood were pitifully outweighed by the anxieties and worries. At other times, however, she was sure that the pride and satisfaction derived from an outstanding accomplishment of some member of the family, or the happiness of the every-day companionships within the home walls was greater than anything else in the world.
When she was ready to start to the station, Quint, who was to take her in the car was being hurried so they would have time to call at Jim Harker's for the money. "I really should have asked Jim to have a little more," Anne said. "One never knows what unexpected expenses may arise on a trip like this." Quint hesitated a moment in the hall, then said, 'Wait a minute" and dashed up stairs. When he came down he handed a worn purse to his mother. "Maybe this will help if you get in a tight place. There's seventeen dollars and a half in there." Then noting the quick look of alarm that leaped to Anne's eyes, his face colored and he explained awkwardly. "It's all right, Mom. I earned it— nights. Judge Thomas got us boys the job of watching old lady Doak's place. I nearly always had my shift from eight to nine so I thought I wouldn't even tell you till I had enough to buy—maybe something nice for your birthday." Anne's heart was pounding with relief and tenderness. "You said you nearly always watched from eight to nine. Was it later sometime?" "Gosh, once Tom was sick and his mother came to the store to see if I'd take his shift—from two to four. I 80 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE thought sure you'd hear me and I'd have to explain." Anne's arm went around the boy -and she wiped her eyes. "You don't care, do you Mom? What's the matter?" "I'm just happy, that's all, son. This money will make me feel safe. If I don't need it you shall have it back." When she bade Quint goodbye at the station she said, "If you should have to take a late shift at Mrs. Doak's while I'm gone, I believe you had better explain to Gloria." AS the train speeded Anne across the continent, she tried to maintain an appearance of composure. The first night she slept from sheer exhaustion. But the next day she was in a fever of anxiety. During the night there had been a delay of four hours due to a cloud burst somewhere ahead. Her train was scheduled to reach Boston shortly after noon on September the first. Now it would be five o'clock. What if there should be more delays? And on the morning of the last day her fear was realized The train ground to a stop where there was no sign of a station, and after a half hour's wait, the conductor came through and explained that there had been a collision on the track a few miles farther on and they would have to wait for the track to be cleared. Although part of the previously lost time had been made up, Anne was frantic with anxiety. The minutes dragged into an hour; then into another. Finally she sought the conductor. "I must get to Boston before ten o'clock. It's most urgent," she said. "Isn't there some way I could go on?" "Not that I know of, lady. There's an airport about fifty miles back. But if we wired for a taxi to take you there, you would likely have used more time than we'll have to wait here." He promised to telegraph again to see how much longer they would be. Anne tried to hold on to herself, but she kept wondering what she would do if she did not get there until after the boat had sailed. She wondered, too, what she would do if Suzanne defied her; if that terrible man scoffed at her and carried her girl away before her very eyes. It all seemed like a horrible nightmare. At last the train moved again. As the distance shortened, Anne tried to determine just what she should do, what she should say when she stood face to face with her girl. She couldn't treat Suzanne as a child. She must not antagonize. What should she do? At last she gave up trying to plan. Maybe God would help her when the moment came. She dreaded the professor. He must have some unusual power to have swept a girl like Suzanne off her feet. She had always been so steady and sensible. Too sensible, Anne sometimes thought, to get as much pleasure from life as Gloria would get. "THE train pulled in at the Boston Station at 8:39. Anne was slightly bewildered by the strangeness of the place, but she put aside her feeling of timidity and incompetence and found a taxi. As she gave the address to the driver, a new fear clutched her. They might have gone already to the boat. Perhaps even yet she would continue this mad race and arrive at the dock only to see the ship sailing away. When she reached the boarding house and asked if Miss Suzanne Brent was in, she was informed that she was leaving in a very short time to sail for Europe. "I'm her mother,' Anne explained ANNE BRENT, HELPMATE 81 and she was led to the stairway and directed to Suzanne's room. She paused at the door One hand was gripping her purse and small traveling bag. The other she pressed against her pounding heart. From within came the sound of voices; a man's voice and Suzanne's clear laugh. "God please tell me how to do it, she breathed as she knocked at the door. "Help me save my girl!" The door opened and she stood. Looking into the questioning eyes of a tall, handsome, stranger. (To be continued) " Not Too Late By Beatrice Tolman Gardner It has been said that at forty One's best years have passed by, But that Milton, Goethe, Dante and others made good — In later life we cannot deny. Instead of picturing life as a hilltop, Where we slowly climb up, then descend; Why not call it a series of terraces, Each higher than the last to the end. Make it true by the fine art of living, With effort and insight for growth; Youth is for faith, old age for trust, And to reach the ultimate goal we must have both. Youth is dogmatic, exclusive, intolerant, And satisfied only by deeds; While age has learned pity, patience, charity, And is interested in humanity's needs. Then let us not feel that life's best work is over And that we are on life's hopeless decline; We are older, richer and better, Experience has made us sublime. Let this richness of knowledge and understanding, Help us to serve the whole race; To make the world better and kinder, A blessing that time can't efface. Your Home Beautiful By Mabel Margaret Luke XI—Slip-Covers AND DECORATIVE TEXTILES EAVING is perhaps the oldest of all arts. This is evidenced in the very ancient textiles that are preserved in museums and art galleries, and in the paintings in Egyptian tombs at least five thousand years old which depict weavers at their looms. Indeed we also have abundant proof in the Bible that Egypt, Palestine, Assyria and other countries of the East were all famous for their linens, many handsomely embroidered, at least one thousand years before Christ. Silks are very ancient in the Orient, and over a thousand years ago they were made in Europe. A little later Italy and France began the manufacture of wool tapestries and velvets. The most famous Gobelin and Flemish tapestries came from this period. From this time on weaving advanced rapidly and damasks, brocades, linens, and other fabrics were produced until today there is a marvelous array of textiles available, both in Europe and America from which we may choose, governed always by appropriateness and most of us more or less by price. Can you realize how cold, barren and harsh our homes would be without the use of textiles—curtains, rugs, drapes, upholstery? Textiles soften hard lines, they enliven a room and add warmth and grace. They have a vitalizing influence. More than this they deaden or absorb sound. Have you ever noticed the noise and resonance of a room at housecleaning time when all the rugs were out and curtains down? It has an empty sound. This is noticeable to a smaller extent even when the curtains are down. With them all back in place we can breathe easily once more, the charm and homelike quality have returned. Home decoration would be impossible without textiles, and their correct employment is one of the most important. Single factors in interior decoration. "TEXTILES have certain qualities which must be taken into consideration when choosing them for your home. These qualities are texture, scale, movement, pattern and color. Texture comes from the Latin and means weave, and is certainly the most outstanding characteristic of any textile. It refers to the roughness or smoothness, or to the feel and appearance of the material. Next in importance is scale because the design must not only harmonize with the character of the room, but to the size as well. Large patterns must not be used in small rooms nor on small articles. The weave of the material also gives it a certain weight-scale, making it heavy or light in appearance and this weight effect must be taken into consideration when selecting textiles. For instance, a deep pile weave looks heavier than one of smooth surface. Therefore, a small room should contain very little, if any deep textured material or it will appear stuffy—the texture would be out of scale with the size of the room. If the material is patterned the pattern should agree in scale with the texture, that is, if the pattern is large there should be a heavier weave, or a small close weave suggests a small pattern. It YOUR HOME BEAUTIFUL 83 might be said in passing, however. That a design will appear larger on a smooth, close weave than on a rough, or open weave. Weave, to a certain extent, modifies the value of a pattern, it seems to sink into the weave and is not so apparent. Close weaves such as satin, because of the smoothness and compactness of its surface, reflect the light while loose weaves absorb it. This fact must be taken into consideration in the use of textiles in rooms without much light. If there is design in the textile be sure that the movement is in the right direction or that there is not too much movement. Often a design, distracting in itself, will look very nice when hung in folds so that the eye is not pulled in any one direction. In color one, of course, is governed principally by the scheme of the room and the suitability to period. If you have no definite scheme in mind for your room many suggestions may be secured from the textiles themselves—a yard of cretonne, a square of Chinese embroidery, an Oriental prayer rug, or a beautiful tapestry may be magnified into a fine room scheme by following the suggested combinations of hues for your room's furnishings and accessories. HERE are three fundamental weaves—plain, twill and satin. The first is one in which the weft threads go over and under the warp, as in scrim, burlap, muslin, etc., or a ribbed effect is produced by coarse wefts and fine warps as in rep and poplin. In a twill weave there are three sets of warp threads which show in diagonal lines. In a satin weave there are five or more warp threads which are the only threads shown on the right side. Velvet is woven in such a way that there is a high standing pile above the ground of the goods. Trade names have been given to fabrics coming under this classification to distinguish the different weaves: Velvet is a closely woven fabric, with a short-standing pile, either cut or looped. Velour has a more open weave, short pile, and usually contains little silk. Plush has an open weave and deeper pile than velour, but contains no silk and is the least expensive type. Frieze is a velvet weave, made of linen, wool and other yarn in which the pile is looped and uncut. It is very suitable and smart for upholstery, being used on fine furniture to a greater extent than mohair, a material made from the hair of Angora goats, and very similar to plush. Damask is a fabric in which the lines of the weave in the background run in one direction and the lines of the pattern in a contrasting direction, usually at right angles. The pattern on both sides is alike but the colors are reversible. Brocatelle is a damask weave woven in such a way that the figures stand out, resulting in an embossed design. Brocade is woven embroidery in which the threads of the design are floated over on the reverse side. Hand blocked linen can be recognized by the unevenness of color, or by irregularities—the edges of the pattern are very seldom even. Hand-blocked linens require much time and skill in the making and, therefore, are very expensive. One can, however, frequently secure machine-blocked linens that are very lovely. Chintz is a printed cotton fabric of close weave and usually small pattern. It is of Hindu origin and means "many colored." Cretonne is 84 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE a printed cotton, linen and cotton or linen fabric, usually of coarse texture and larger scale pattern. It comes from the French word Creton, a French village noted for its weaving. The terms are often used interchangeably. The original cretonne, however, usually contained linen in some part of its composition, and the pattern was larger than the English chintz. Chintz may be glazed, cretonne never is. Toile de Jouy is a linen or cotton closely woven material on which are printed landscape scenes. The figures are usually set far apart a great deal of the background appearing. It derived its name from the town of Jouy in France where it was first manufactured. It is very lovely in Colonial interiors. When referring to a piece of goods it is called by its weave no matter of what material it is made. For instance, damask refers to the weave and it may be of cotton, linen silk or wool, or any combination of them. WING to lack of space it is impossible to take up in detail distinguishing characteristics of every type of material. However, a few suggestions on buying might be given: When buying materials for glass curtains draw out a thread or two. If they will pull out in either direction it is scrim or voile. Grenadine, gauze or marquisette differ in that threads can be pulled out in one direction only, and nets are locked in both directions and are the firmest and strongest of the group, will last longer and launder better. They are most expensive so be sure you get net when you pay for it. In buying chintz or cretonne caution should be observed. The cheaper fabrics are apt to fade quickly, and if of stiff texture will not hang gracefully. Do not be misled by the name, for instance, tapestry cretonne refers only to the pattern; linenized cretonne will provide a satisfactory substitute for linen if it is bought at cretonne prices. Guard against jute-filled cretonne. Sunlight is injurious to most silks, They should, therefore, be lined, Soft textured silks will wear better than the stiff, or filled silk. Again, do not be misled by assuming a material is silk if called damask, velvet or taffeta. Tapestry is a heavy, hand-woven ribbed fabric in a plain weave, alike on both sides. On the wrong side it may have an occasional loose thread. Tapestry may be made of wool or cotton and if chosen with care will become a heirloom in your family. Many fabrics are called tapestry because of their design, not weave. When buying avoid the common type in which the background is loosely woven from soft yarns and will not wear with the body of the cloth. Always in selecting tapestries the furniture and room in which it is to be used must be considered. Before buying textiles it is wisest to try out several pieces in the place where they are to be used, in both artificial and natural light. What looks well in the shop may not be at all suitable to the article on which it is to be used or to the room. It is always advisable to experiment. The best upholstered furniture is sold with denim covering, the finer covering to be chosen by the buyer to suit himself and his home. In the home, too, we must often meet the problem of recovering old furniture. In choosing a material with which to do this one must consider, form, style and wood of the article to be covered, the amount of YOUR HOME BEAUTIFUL 85 wear it is to have, the sort of room in which it is to be used, and scale, color and texture. It should be selected because of its beauty, harmony of color and appropriateness of design, and the quality of texture and its ability to retain its luster and beauty through years of wear. For example, a Louis XVI chair in ivory enamel and gilt would be incongruous if covered in a rough tapestry in dark, rich colors. Such a chair would call for a brocade in light, delicate tints, or a thin-striped silk, or a light colored satin, and would, of course, be used in a drawing room or boudoir. The tapestry would be more suitable on a sturdy chair of English Oak. Common sense will guide one in choosing material for use. One would not choose a lovely damask of delicate coloring in a room which has constant and hard usage. Anyone who is handy can do upholstering or recovering work at home. A few directions might be of value. To upholster a chair seat the first thing to do is to remove all the old upholstery and web strongly crossing over so that there are at least four strong strips, stretched tightly. Cover with canvas and tack. Loop a string from one tack to another. Lay on the cleaned stuffing evenly, under the strings and in the center. An under covering the proper size should be tacked over, the back corners cut to fit the uprights, and pulled down as tightly as possible. Then the final covering is tacked on. It may be finished with a banding and studs if desired. Loose seats are handled in the same way except the final covering is tacked on the under side of the seat, beginning at the center and working toward the corners which are doubled and tacked back. In covering an easy chair the front of the chair back is covered first and tacked the shape of the chair, the wings, if any, being covered in the same way, then the arms, the material being tacked on the under side, the back of the uprights and round the polished wood, using fine gimp pins. The back of the wings are then covered and tacked to the back upright. The seat is next covered, the material being tacked close to the moulding, then a piece is pinned to the outside back and stitched on. The tacked edge at the moulding is covered with a banding of the material long enough to go around the chair. Time was when slip covers were strictly utilitarian affairs, bulky in fit and drab in coloring, whose only purpose was to protect the furniture from dust and dirt during vacation time. Now, however, brilliant in hue and interesting in pattern they lend a decidedly decorative note to any room. They furnish color, conceal worn upholstery, unify odd pieces, provide variety in furnishing, restore to use furniture worn or discarded because of unpleasing design, and finally protect the furniture. Cheerful new slip covers provide a spring tonic for tired rooms and will change the spirit of the entire house, giving it an air of coolness and freshness. Although they are especially suitable for summertime dress some people very successfully keep furniture in slip covers the year around. This should not be done if the chair or couch frames are very lovely. The material chosen should be close in weave so that dust will not penetrate readily, and firm so it will not stretch or pull out of place. Color fastness is desirable. Glazed chintz is a particularly suitable fabric as dirt cannot penetrate the glazed finish. Other materials suit86 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE able for slip covers are Belgian linens, either natural or with stripes, cretonne in floral and modernistic designs, sateen (in some rooms black sateen with bright colored piping and cushions is very smart), cotton mohair, rep, block-printed linens, Toile de Jouy, rayon taffeta, checked or plain gingham, white linen (bound in black) or mixtures of linen, cotton and silk are all good. They may be bound in contrasting colors, and may have flounces, box-plaited or ruffled, or plain—the latter is really the smartest. All furniture need not be covered with the same material unless it needs tying together. It would prove monotonous in a large room and overpowering in a small one. Harmony there must be, but always harmony without monotony. The use of two or more materials which will combine well is best. For instance, in a small room individuality might be introduced by using a plain material on the davenport and perhaps one chair, with two or three small chairs or stools in decorative materials. In a room that needs pulling together it is often satisfactory to have the slip covers of the couch or chair of the same material as the drapes. To make slip covers take accurate measurements before buying materials. Pre-shrink the material before cutting. Then cut and fit them on the furniture. If the material has a large design be sure to center it accurately on the back and seat of the piece being covered. If a narrow material is used join piecings on a lengthwise thread and match designs carefully. Selvedge edges should be snipped to prevent drawing. Press open. Place lengthwise thread vertically on back, and from front to back on seat. Place material on chair or couch and pin, allowing at least one inch for seams. Be sure to allow plenty of material to tuck in under cushions and side arms so it will stay in place. Narrow tape or ribbon may be used for binding. On upholstered chairs and sofas slip covers may be made without fastenings or have snap fasteners at one side of the back. Side chairs are often covered, especially in summertime to give an appearance of comfort and prevent clothing from sticking to the varnish in hot weather. They are best made with back and seat covers fastened separately, with snap fasteners or tape. Slip covers to fit tightly over the tops of the tables are very smart for summertime. Out-of-door furniture, tables and chairs, may have covers of waterproof material. Small seat pads of gingham, chintz or oilcloth may be made for kitchen, bedroom or breakfast nook chairs and fastened by means of tapes tied at the four corners. Portiere curtains are a means of introducing textiles into a room, providing variety and interest, and of relieving the bareness of an opening. All arches or opening do not need them. If rooms are small an effect of spaciousness will be gained by their omission as they tend to divide rather than unite rooms. Portieres should be made of two thickness of material, back to back, preferably with an interlining of outing flannel. They should have a double heading to conceal the pole. They may be suspended within the opening, or from the face of the casings. In the latter case it is desirable to have two pairs, one for each room, each lined with the color of the other. This method is used where there are folding doors. The coloring of the portieres should be the same as that of the window drapes or related. One may be patterned, the other a YOUR HOME BEAUTIFUL 87 solid color of one of its principal tones. Materials suitable for portieres are moires, failles, velours, linens, damasks, chenilles, crewel cloth, shiki silk and other similar fabrics. Portieres should be pulled back to either side when not in use so as not to obstruct the passageway. Covering the walls with fabrics is entirely appropriate in certain rooms. In a room where texture is necessary coarse or irregular weaves may be used. Elegance is given by the use of velvets, brocades and damasks. Such materials are used above a dado. To tack them on batten strips which are then fastened to the wall is a better method than to fasten them directly on the wall. Fabrics with oiled finish which are now available in many delightful designs, and Japanese grass cloth are very durable and attractive. Wall coverings and the appropriateness of different designs to particular rooms were discussed more fully in a previous lesson. Wall hangings will be discussed in connection with pictures. Textiles, of course, should be used in moderation. There should be enough of the natural wood and enough of the architectural lines evident to give firmness and strength to the room. Pattern too, should be used with discretion. Contrast in texture, color and pattern is most desirable, although that contrast must be harmonious and suitable. Some suggestions for combining materials in rooms are: In a Colonial room with mahogany furniture of the Georgian type we might use damask on one chair, brocade or satin, on couch, another chair might be covered with needlepoint. In a bedroom, curtains of Toile de Jouy in violet would harmonize with coral moire on bed and chair. Drapes of Old India prints in cream, red, blue and green would be harmonious with rose damask, brown satin, blue frieze and green taffeta in the upholstery. In either case the floor might be covered with a wool rug of heavier and deeper texture, yet if a rough or rugged texture rug were used, or one of cheap cotton introduced there would be immediate conflict. The study of fabrics is a never exhausted one. It is a story that is romantic and intermingled with the history of the world's civilizations. Many delightful things have been left to us from the ages that have passed to furnish inspiration for those of today. There are also many modern designs that are unsurpassed for loveliness. But there has been a demand for cheap things and this demand has been supplied at the expense of quality. It is better to go without than to use a cheap, tawdry imitation. Again let me repeat—use cotton, which is real and only what it pretends to be, rather than a cheap silk that is only a poor imitation of a fine brocade or damask. Be as honest in your decoration as you are in your character. Let your home really reflect you.
A Working Plan By Mildred Tobler
In this era of plans and plans for helping other folks, three stakes in the church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints have an unusually efficient "way out" for the dependent. These are Utah Stake, Kolob Stake, and Maricopa Stake. The objective of the work is to build the morale of the needy, to make them self-supporting, by giving them temporary aid and furnishing them with employment if possible. The plan has all the advantages of ordinary charity work; with none of its disadvantages. The work in Utah Stake is under the direction of President T. N. Taylor and Sister Achsa P. Paxman, president of the Utah stake Relief Society. Under Mrs. Paxman is a corps of enthusiastic workers, who, through their desire to help, have eliminated nearly all the overhead cost usually necessary to such an organization. The Community Welfare organization takes the place of the regular Relief Society charity work in the wards except that it is centralized as a stake institution. In a sense, its effects are more far-reaching, for it serves both members and non-members of the church. One would never dream, when visiting the little office in the Utah Stake Administration building with its sole occupant, Mrs. Emily Nielsen, distributor of help, that such a complete work is being carried on. Mrs. Nielsen also takes care of the Burial Clothes and this department practically pays the expenses of the Community Welfare organization. Last year, $5,600 was distributed from the office to those in need in Utah Stake, however, this amount included some funds distributed for the county. In the last seven years an average of sixty families a month have been either completely or partially taken care of by the Community Welfare. Some of these cases have needed only temporary aid, as the temporarily unemployed and the seasonally unemployed; while others have required permanent help—orphans, children without parents, or children with disabled parents. The money for these enterprises is obtained from voluntary contributions from members of the stake. The stake stages a drive for funds every six months, and each ward is assessed a certain amount, the amount being determined by the membership and their ability to pay. These funds are sent to the Community office so that every needy family in the stake is uniformly cared for. This provides for a standard distribution among all the wards. Bishops and Relief Society Presidents cooperate in all the plans of this Community Welfare organization. The Community Welfare work is very well organized. Every ward in the stake has a Social Welfare Aid who makes investigations. A complete record of their findings is made and filed at the central office. This includes the names of those in the family who are capable of helping to support A WORKING PLAN 89 the family, physical and mental condition of the father and mother, and any relatives who might be able to help them. No help is given without an investigation, except in extreme cases, when people are without food, or fuel. In these instances an emergency order is sent and an investigation made after. Whenever possible the Community Welfare provides opportunities for work, a chance for a member of the family to go to school and learn a vocation by which he may earn a living, thus increasing his confidence in himself and in his ability to help to better provide for his family. Jobs for School boys and girls are usually filled upon recommendation of the Community Welfare organization. Red Cross clothing materials and flour were distributed by the Dept. Last winter. The county cooperates with them in all ways, giving aid on their recommendation, and supplementing their funds, because their efficiency and dependability in distributing money, food, and clothing to the right people is well-known. When families are known to be lax in managing their incomes appropriated by the organization, their groceries, fuel and clothing are sent to them instead of money. The central and final objective is to reclaim the individual's ability to earn, to make him feel responsible for filling his niche in the scheme of things. One of the most unusual and helpful divisions of the work is taken care of by a health program. When operations are needed, patients are sent to the hospital without charge, the welfare organization paying for the materials and hospitalization, the physicians cooperating with their time and skill. One little boy was eight years old and still in the first grade. He was a teacher's problem, disinterested, slow, unwilling to learn. A community welfare worker sent him to a physician to be examined. It was found that his tonsils were very badly diseased. They were removed six months ago. Now, he is at the head of his class, confident, ready to work, and very interested. His teacher's greatest problem is to find something for him to do. Several children with defective vision were furnished with glasses, which increased their interest in school and their standard in classes. A man with a large family had been unemployed for several years. His personal appearance was seriously affected by very bad teeth which he hadn't had money enough to have fixed. Upon being sent to a dentist and furnished with new teeth, his enthusiasm and his desire to work returned. He searched for work incessantly, something he had given up finding years ago. Finally, he got a respectable job at a living wage and is back in the harness and happy again, with a new lease on life. Mothers are being given prenatal care so that children are being brought into the world without the handicaps caused from undernourished and worried mothers. "Maternity bundles" are distributed to the mothers who would not otherwise be able to clothe their infants nor furnish proper bed linen. In the first nine months of 1933, $683.09 has been spent for health work, The money was obtained as interest on money for grain sold by the Relief Society to the United 90 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE States government during the World War. Children whose homes are unsuited for their growth and development as good citizens are placed in private homes and surrounded by a wholesome environment, the county cooperating with the Community Welfare to pay the small board bill. Free lunches at schools are provided by the Parents and Teachers Association and assisted by Community Welfare workers. Begun sixteen years ago when Sister Inez Knight Allen was president of the Utah Stake Relief Society, and Brother Joseph B. Keeler was president of the stake, the work has expanded every year to fit the increasing needs. In the depression years since 1929 it has been one of the most potent factors in providing employment, furnishing necessities of life, and looking after the general welfare of the poor of Utah Stake. It is a plan that might well be followed in any stake that wishes to care for its dependents in the most efficient and encouraging way. Through it, many are brought to realize their possibilities for living with others as independent members of society.
Pioneer Sugar By Ezra J. Poulsen
In one of the pioneer settlements of Utah, many years ago, a unique method of obtaining sugar, or at least its equivalent, was made use of by some of the women. As thanksgiving time approached, the settlers, like the original pilgrims, felt the urge to celebrate the occasion in a fitting manner. Accordingly the men took their guns, and with little difficulty secured an ample supply of rabbits, sage hens, and other small game. This, together with the products of the new gardens and fields, promised a rich repast, since vegetables and meats go well together. Still, there was something lacking. Everyone agreed that without pies and cakes the feast would not be entirely satisfactory; and as there was no sugar, these pastries were evidently not to be had. The women, however, feeling that the responsibility was theirs, undertook to solve the problem. Taking a large number of ripe pumpkins, and cutting a hole in the top of each, they drew out all the seeds and pithy matter, then set the pumpkins, with the cavities up, out doors during several cold nights. At the end of this time the frost had caused the juice of the pumpkins to run down into the hollow cavity inside of each. This was finally poured out and boiled down to a thick syrup, after which it was used as sweetening. So the feast included pies and cakes, and the women proved their ability to meet a perplexing situation.
Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon
February—Short, but gay with patriotic oratory, fancy dress balls, and sentimental valentines!
Mrs. Hattie Carraway of Arkansas is the only woman Senator in the present Congress but there are six women Representatives, Mary T. Norton of New Jersey, Florence Kahn of California, Edith N. Rogers of Massachusetts, Kathryn O. McCarthy of Kansas, Virginia Jenkes of Indiana and Isabella Greenway of Arizona.
Ruth Bryan Owen, United States minister to Denmark, was given the honor of being the first envoy to appear before King Christian X during the ceremony of his New Year levee. Among men resplendent in diplomatic and military uniforms, she was beautiful in a black gown embroidered in silver and a black velvet hat interwoven with silver cloth.
Katherine Hepburn is voted the greatest find of 1933. Either for cinema or the speaking stage. She is distinguished for charm and personality.
Greta Garbo back from Sweden with her surprising play "Queen Christina" has again won the movie fans.
Cornelia Otis Skinner, monologist in her latest play "The loves of Charles II" opens each scene with a tableau which duplicates a painting of the period.
Maria Jeritza of Vienna, appeared at the reopening of the Chicago Opera this season in the title role of La Tosca.
Harriet Chalmers Adams, noted woman geographer is in Palestine turning a 30 years experience of exploring into books, In her travels she has penetrated many lands where no other white woman has ever been.
Marion Talley after seven years retirement, has come back to the stage with the revival of the Chicago Opera. She shows more poise, finer voice, and a deeper feeling for her art.
Anne Lindbergh has been awarded the cross of honor of the United States Flag Association for her courage and efficiency as navigator and radio operator in the survey of transatlantic air routes.
Evelyn Frost, Aviatrix while piloting a plane enroute from France to Egypt, collided with high tension wires and perished in the wreckage.
Helen Jacobs, tennis champion, was voted at the annual Press Sports Poll, the queen of sports of 1933.
Mrs. Maud Chegwidden of Utah, has been elected a fellow of the Royal Horticultural Society of London in recognition of her outstanding work in flora culture.
Agnes Rapplier has written a series of pioneer stories. "Junipero Serra, Pioneer Colonist of California" is the latest.
Margaret Ayers Barnes' new novel "Within the Present" covers the period of 1914-1933. Rather a 'close up' for fiction, but its pages have abundant interest,
Bernadette Soubirous, a French peasant girl, who years ago, it is claimed, had visions at the lake of Lourdes, was recently proclaimed a Saint, by Pope Pius XI. Amid all the color and magnificence of which the Catholic officials are masters.
Relief Society Pageant By Annie Wells Cannon
Presented at the Relief Society Conference October 7, 1933 in the Assembly Hall.
Building a Diet By Lucy Rose Middleton
The housewife who has become more or less familiar with technical terms such as vitamins, proteins, calories, minerals, etc., will naturally inquire how she may select foods to cover these fundamental nutritional requirements. In recent years entirely too much propaganda has been circulated about certain dietary theories which have caused unnecessary and even foolish adherence to temporary fads. Radio health talks, usually given for advertising purposes, often prove a source of misinformation. The relative value of a product to be sold is overstated. No effort is made to distinguish proved facts from speculative theories. Laboratory experiments on food requirements are of great value, both from a scientific and a practical standpoint, but we must beware of drawing too many conclusions from them. This is illustrated by the tremendous and revolutionary changes in nutritional "dogma" from year to year. Who would have dared twenty years ago to give a baby orange juice, spinach, or tomato juice? Our grandmothers would have been horrified to see babies fed in this manner. Even today, infant feeding is by no means an exact science and doubtless coming years will see further changes. In the same household there are generally persons of widely different food requirements. The baby cannot be fed like the five-year-old boy. Nor the five-year-old like his football playing brother. The dainty fare which is best suited to a school teacher would be scorned by a farm laborer whose energy requirement is very much higher. These divergencies are more in quantity and mode of service than in kind. With a few adjustments it is possible to keep the family well and happy on a meal composed of practically the same ingredients, if suitably cooked and apportioned. Infants and children young enough to require specially prepared foods are best cared for by themselves. As is well known, the energy value of foods is measured in terms of calories. All foods when burned in the body yield a definite number of calories. It is said that some large establishments now purchase coal in terms of the number of heat units a ton will yield, but we have not yet reached the point of buying food by the calory. Nevertheless, when we prepare a meal the caloric values should be kept in mind. In addition, we must not neglect any of the components of a scientifically adequate diet. Our biggest source of foods is grain products, which are primarily valuable for the production of energy. Foods from this group include bread, corn, crackers, macaroni, and rice, as well as breakfast foods. They are our most economical part of the diet. From one-third to one-half of the total calories of an adult may come from this source. Emphasis should be placed on the use of the grains with the bran and germ retained, since they contain minerals and vitamins. Milk is a great protector in the diet. It is important for its supply of calcium, phosphorus, and other minerals. Even in the adult diet a liberal amount should be included at 94 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE all times. A pint a day for adults and a quart for children is a good rule. Milk also contains protein and may serve as a partial substitute for meat, which is an expensive protein food. Eggs, too, are rich in protein, and in this respect are the equivalent of meat. All nutrition experts stress the importance of a plentiful supply of fresh fruits and vegetables because of their richness in vitamins and minerals, and also because of their laxative properties. Tables, carrots, tomatoes and citrus fruits are particularly valuable, and should be used frequently. At least ten per cent of our. Total calories should come from this group, and more if the cost is not prohibitive. Fats and oils are by far the richest foods in the number of calories per pound. They are so nutritious that most persons are satisfied with relatively small amounts. They include butter, cream, suet, bacon, and oils. Fats usually contribute ten to twenty per cent of our daily caloric requirement. Sugar serves as a fuel food only. It adds greatly to the palatability of the diet without supplying vitamins, mineral ash, or other building material. Not more than ten per cent of our calories should come from sugar. The following are 100 calorie portions of some common foods: Milk...............5/8 cup Bread...............2 thin slices Butter.......1 scant tablespoonful Sugar..............2 tablespoonfuls Eggs................11/3 eggs Oatmeal................1/3 cup Potatoes.........1 medium sized Bananas...........1 large Lettuce............2 large heads Apples............1 large Green vegetables.....14 cups
Peach Dumplings 1 1/4 cups flour 3 teaspoons baking powder 1/2 teaspoon salt 5 tablespoons shortening 1/2 cup milk 6 peaches 6 tablespoons sugar
Sift flour, baking powder, and salt together; rub shortening in lightly. Add enough milk to make a soft dough. Roll out to 1/4 inch thick on slightly floured board. Divide into six pieces and lay pared fresh peach or two halves of canned peach on each piece of dough. Sprinkle with sugar. Moisten edges of dough and fold up around peach; press tightly together. Place in buttered baking dish, sprinkle with sugar and top each dumpling with a piece of butter. Bake 40 minutes if fresh peaches are used and 20 minutes if canned ones are used. Oven temperatures should be 350 degrees F. Serve with a hard sauce or plain cream.
Crusty Apricot Puff 3/4 lb. Dried apricots 3/4 cup light brown sugar 5 tablespoons butter 1 cup flour 2 teaspoons baking powder 1/2 cup milk
Soak the apricots over night or several hours in warm water to cover. Rub two tablespoons of softened or creamy butter over the bottom and sides of a pie plate or baking dish. Spread half of sugar evenly over the butter and lay the apricot halves in circles to cover dish. Sprinkle the remaining sugar over them. Make an ordinary dumpling mixture and spread in a thin sheet to cover the apricots. Dot plentifully with butter. Put into a hot oven, 400 degrees F, After 5 minutes reduce the heat to BUILDING A DIET 95 325 degrees F. Bake until brown, and serve with hard sauce or plain cream.
Graham Cracker Pudding 1/4 lb. Graham crackers 1/4 lb. Marshmallows, cut fine 1 cup chopped nuts 1 cup chopped dates 1 cup thin cream or top milk
Mix crackers (rolled fine), marshmallows, walnuts, dates and cream slowly until the mixture is moist enough to form a roll. Wrap in waxed paper and place in refrigerator and allow to stand for several hours. Slice and serve with whipped cream or a thin custard.
One Eventful Night By Isabelle Blake
"Oh! It's cold tonight, Mother," said Anna Macdonald, as she took off her coat in the "lobby" before entering the warm kitchen. "Aye, March has certainly come in like a lion. Come in, lassie, there's a good fire" "We've visitors," she added, as the girl entered and smiled at the two men standing by the fire. "Oh! Good evening, President, "exclaimed Anna, "Hello, Andrew, why so gloomy?" "Your hands are like ice, dear," Andrew Lorimer said drawing her to the fire. "Come and sit down." But Anna stopped him and said to President Smith." Anything wrong, Brother Smith; You look very serious." "Nothing exactly wrong, Anna, but I went up to administer to Margaret Pirie and she was asking for you. They think it may be tonight and Donald is very low spirited." "I've told you she can't go up to Pirie's tonight, "interrupted Andrew angrily. "She is coming with me to our staff dance and it will take her all her time to change and go." "Come away and get your supper and then talk," said Mrs. Macdonald firmly, "The lassie's hungry and you lads have had nothing since dinner." Andrew said he wasn't hungry but President Smith sat down with an air of eagerness and Mrs. Macdonald's hot scones started to disappear with amazing rapidity. Meanwhile Anna ate on the run. "We can go along with President Smith, Andy, and I'll run up to see Margaret before we go to the dance." "I don't see why you have to go at all. The nurse and doctor will be there and probably her folks." "Well," said President Smith, "Margaret's folks have not been near since she joined the Church and as Relief Society visitor Anna has been there a great deal and Margaret has come to depend on her a lot." "She's not the only one," said Lorimer rather savagely. Half the members of the Branch seem to be that way." "She's a good lassie," said Mrs. Macdonald, "And she will not shirk her duty." "And in this case duty and inclination meet," cried Anna emerging from the bedroom in her pretty dance frock, a warm coat on her arm, "And if you think I won't be in at the finish after these long hours of watchful waiting well, you're all 96 wrong. If you two men are ready we'll be going. Mother don't sit up for me dear." "All right, lassie, if my leg wasn't so bad I'd go along to Margaret. Tell her sorrow and pain endure for the night but joy cometh in the morning." "And a wee son we'll hope," answered Anna cheerfully. "Come on boys." It had stopped raining but a cold wind was blowing as the three emerged from the "close" into the street. "Scotland forever" laughed Anna, "You can aye depend on a wet night whatever you plan. But spring will be here soon. I saw some crocus spears today and the shop windows are full of daffodils." "Must be grown under glass or. Come from the channel islands," murmured Andrew, while President Smith thought longingly of a Utah farm where sometimes it was dry and daffodils grew in the open yard. In a few minutes they came to the "close"" where Margaret lived. I'll wait here. Dear, "said Andrew, "Don't be long." The other two went silently up stairs and in a minute were in the little two roomed house that was the Pirie home. Margaret threw her arms around Anna. "I'm so glad you've come. You're the only real woman friend I've got, and Margaret Pirie clung to her friend. "Mother says" whispered Anna through trembling lips, "Joy cometh in the morning, Margaret." "Yes, but it's a long time till morning—You won't go will you, Anna?" Anna glanced at the clock nine-thirty—a long time till morning. "Yes, I'll wait. I'll tell Andy." "Tell him I'll—do as much—for RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE you," gasped Margaret as Anna ran away. "Yes, she's pretty bad. Probably not before morning," whispered the nurse and Anna sped downstairs. Andrew stared at her white-faced. "You know this isn't the first time but I thought tonight seeing it was to meet my sister and my boss you'd show a little consideration for me. It comes to this, Anna, if your Relief Society work means so much to you and I so little I'd better go now." "Margaret is my dear friend, Andy, but it is more than that. She gave up her home and her people for a principle and as a sister I must stand by." "Then you are willing to say goodbye now." "As well now as later,' Anna's voice was crisp but her eyes were full of tears. "If a dance is going to spoil our love story the sooner we end it the better." "Goodbye, then,' said Andrew grimly, "You've made your choice." Anna, leaned against the wall a minute before she entered the room again. Her heart hurt so. Margaret was talking rapidly and constantly now. Only for a few minutes was she silent while her husband and Elder Smith administered to her. Anna heard them as from a great distance—"Mother in Israel, a son or daughter—God bless thee and keep thee." Why! The balm was falling on her heart, too. An hour sped by—two hours. At midnight Donald was sent running for the doctor. When he returned he was sent out again to pace the wet street back and forth—back and forth. At three o'clock Anna caught a warm bundle from the nurse's arms and wept over the wee red face, ONE EVENTFUL NIGHT 97 "It was grand of you to stay," whispered Margaret, "Send Donald up and go on home to bed." Anna went down stairs slowly with a heavy step. She was so tired. Then she saw Donald's bowed head and shoulders and laughed aloud. As he turned she said gaily, ""Unto you a son is born, old friend." "Is it really true? Oh Anna! How's Margaret?" "Fine, go on up." "Bless you, Anna, go on home, Andy'll take you." "What do you mean, 'Andy'll take you'," "What would he mean," asked a voice from the shadows of the close. "I thought we had parted forever," she exclaimed. "I went to the dance and stayed long enough to make our apologies and came back just as Donald came down. So I've been walking up and down with him ever since. A nerve wracking business." "What did your sister say, Andy?" asked Anna. "Said I was lucky to get a girl that thought more of her friend than a dance and wants me to bring you to see her on Saturday. I'm sorry I was so selfish. I got a different slant on things from poor old Donald. Maybe we'll be glad of a Relief Society visitor ourselves some day. And so they walked home through the rain.
A Prayer By Elsie E. Barrett
Help me to judge the acts I see With kindliness and charity; I may not know the true intent, I may not know just what is meant.
For some may think their motives clear, Though some may seem a little queer; While righteous anger I may feel, And score my brother with much zeal.
Let me launch off the bitter word, Deceitful smiles that seem absurd; Let me have pity in my heart For those who send a piercing dart.
Let me not nurse a lasting scar, But from my heart all sin debar; Let me keep silent, watch and pray Until the hurt is worn away.
Then, if I can, may I inspire Within those souls a great desire To make the world a better place Illuminated by The Love and Grace.
For Young Mothers By Holly Baxter Keddington
What is the temperature of your home? A stake president recently asked this question, at a Relief Society Convention. He said "The Mother is the thermometer in the home. It is she who has in her power the tempering of the mental and moral atmosphere." Isn't it very true? Are you radiating warmth with laughter, happy conversation, corrective uplift, a wholesome composure and a friendliness that makes others happy to be with you; or do you promote storms of protest, irritability, sulkiness, and the attitude of "you go your way and I'll go mine.' Are you changeable like the month of February? We all need the uplift, the smile, the handclasp of the other fellow. Let us temper our personal atmosphere in our homes so that our friends and family will feel our influence. Bring real warmth to these drab, wintry days by keeping the temperature in the home at a comfortable level. Many mothers may stand aghast at the showing of selfishness and rudeness of the child who formerly was gentle and generous in his play. This negative disposition may sprout at any age. A child is naturally "not nice in his attitude toward others" says Mr. Patri. Only by early training in the joy of sharing. And understanding others rights can this be overcome. The child may be very young when he first makes known that he doesn't want a guest to use his property. There ensues a free-for-all. This tension can be aggravated materially by the mother if she scolds. But if she takes just a few minutes to show both children that fine game of sharing, many unpleasant situations may be avoided. After a time you may see them exchanging toys and finding any share desirable; since the bone of contention has been divided. Older children may have real reasons why they dislike sharing their toys. A playmate may be rough, selfish or unfair. If you would have your own child considerate of the other fellows property he must first learn to care for his own. And every mother I know says "How long will it be before I can be sure I won't have to remind John or Jane about picking up and putting away?" All I can say is that we must just hope and work for that day to come. The child who has learned to be fair, honest and considerate, who has earned the comradeship of the play ground, has learned much. "Learning to play is as serious a problem for the child as earning a living is for the adult." I quote Mr. Patri. "St. Valentine's Day is another of the joyous days for children. Party, pastry, candy and decoration suggestions are found in every magazine. My only suggestion is that mother should help the children create little remembrances instead of buying everything. I know a mother who made plain cookies and wrote names in icing on each one. These were not only a novelty but were—oh!—so good too. February always reminds us of Abraham Lincoln. Lincoln's life was very hard. Few living now could have lived as he lived. He was sad, worried and harassed beyond our understanding, but he could be a wonderful friend. On one occasion when there was talk of a poor man without friends, he said, "If he has no friends, I will befriend him." Later an old man from the highlands of New York said, "Up there we believe in God and Father Abraham",
Notes from the Field
Our "Magazine Program', in the Springville Third Ward, sponsored by our magazine agent. Charlotta Black, was very interesting and successful. It was carried out as stated below.
1. The song, as outlined in the September magazine, was sung by our ward Relief Society Ladies' Chorus. They were dressed in large cartons decorated to represent covers of the magazine with an open magazine tied with a ribbon for a bonnet.
2. An interesting stunt was put on by twenty-one ladies, each bearing a letter of "Relief Society Magazine". Each lady, in a hat and dress of some member borrowed without the owner's knowledge, recited a comical bit about the lady whose name began with her letter.
3. The five editors then posed in a frame (see accompanying picture ) and short biographies of each were given. A member read "A Little Friend of Mine" from the September 1931 magazine. Two tiny girls in Halloween colors passed slips to the members which read as follows—
We, the members of the Third Ward Relief Society of Springville, resolve to read the Magazine from cover to cover and repeat the reading of each lesson, before the day on which the lesson is given.
Are you a subscriber?.......--Name......-.
This accompanying picture taken of the ladies who represented the past five editors, are as follows:
1. Susa Y. Gates—represented by Mary Ellen Sumsion McKenzie.
LADIES REPRESENTING THE FIVE EDITORS OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 100
2. Emmeline B. Wells—represented by Sophia Packard.
3. Lula Greene Richards—represented by Adrian J. Gore.
4, Alice L. Reynolds—represented by Grace Baker.
5. Mary Connelly Kimball—represented by Charlotta Black.
Recently I attended the Salt Lake Stake Union Meeting. It was a joy to see how the supervisors of each department had so many helpful suggestions for their teachers. One wished she could divide herself and go into each section. Each year this Stake selects an aim on which it labors. In various ways it puts it over. On Work and Business Day, this aim is featured. The aim for this year is "We believe in progression through the learning and living of Gospel principles." For the nine months when the Relief Society holds meetings, they have what they call nine stepping stones that develop this aim. I visited the Activity Department and the following helpful things were given.
1. We believe in progression through activity.
2. We believe in progression through study— Magazine, Textbooks, General material.
3. We believe in progression through faith— Deity, Self, Fellow-man.
4. We believe in progression through service.
5. We believe in progression through self-expression.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
6. We believe in progression through obedience to law— Land, Church.
7. We believe in progression through appreciation— Membership and the Church, Friendships gained, Opportunities provided.
8. We believe in progression through developing Motherly virtues.
9. We believe in progression through cultivating a love of the beautiful.
A ten-minute talk is given each month on Work and Business Day on these topics. Helpful suggestions and outlines are presented at their Union Meeting to aid the speakers. Collateral music is given, a poem is read, seasonable recipes are given, and for the month following my visit, toys for the kindergarten were shown. This Stake has urged every Ward to have a Kindergarten so that young Mothers may attend. One Sister reported that they did not have any babies in their Association and hence needed no Kindergarten, but conforming to the wishes of the Stake Presidency, they established a Kindergarten and now have many children in attendance. The little folks so love the work given there that some of them ask if they cannot come even when their mothers do not attend Relief Society. The next month "helpful hints in housekeeping" will be presented in this department. The recipes given were for eggless squash pie, green tomato mincemeat, and a Thanksgiving menu that would serve twelve people for $2.90.—K.
Calling in
NOTES FROM THE FIELD El Paso Ward: The following report has been received from El Paso Ward, in St. Joseph Stake: "We are happy to report the work and activities of our Relief Society at El Paso, Texas. Our Annual Day was stressed by the presentation of the playlet contained in the March, 1932 issue of the Magazine, entitled 'The Organization of the Relief Society in Nauvoo. This well rehearsed playlet, under the direction of Sister Zeretta Harris, was well received by the membership of our Ward, who were the guests of the Relief Society for the entire evening, which was devoted to drama, dancing and refreshments."
Yellowstone Stake (Parker Ward): The picture of the pageant "College of Opportunity," is expressive of the enthusiasm and resourcefulness of Relief Society women. This group is a picture of women who successfully carry on the program of education in meetings, 101 President of Parker Ward, with her two counselors—typical Relief Society women homes, vacation camps, everywhere the occasion offers.
COLLEGE OF OPPORTUNITY, PARKER WARD, YELLOWSTONE STAKE. 102
Teton Stake: Those who have had the privilege of meeting Sister Susannah Sheets Wilson will be interested in the following note, which comes from Teton Stake: "The passing from earth life of Sister Susannah Sheets Wilson, April 1, 1933, caused a sadness among the members of the Relief Society of the Teton Stake. Mrs. Wilson has been connected with this organization in some way ever since the beginning of the stake. She was born in Salt Lake City in 1858. She was married in the old endowment house in 1881, and came to Teton Valley a pioneer in 1887, with her husband, T. R. Wilson. She was chosen first counselor in the Relief Society in the first ward organized, also first counselor in the first stake organized, a position she held for nine years, after which she was chosen stake president. This position she held for thirteen years, when she was released on account of ill health. Mrs. Wilson was well known throughout the Teton Valley, and was loved and admired as a woman of deep faith. She was a true gentlewoman, and took a pride in home-making. Mrs. Wilson is survived by five children, twenty-three grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren. Her husband, T. R. Wilson, preceded her to the grave in 1929,"
In the Thirty-first Ward of Liberty Stake, a very fine piece of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE cooperation between the mothers and daughters is told. This was held on the Work and Business Day, when a very great effort is made to have especially attractive features in addition to the regular program. One particular meeting of this type was held on March 14 of this year, where a splendid opportunity was given to bring the mothers and daughters into closer companionship of interests. The Gleaner project for the past two years has been, "I will gather Treasures of Truth." The purpose of this is to stimulate the girls to gather the history of their ancestors with interesting and faith-promoting stories of the pioneers. This vital material is compiled by each girl in a book of her own making, and it is called "Treasures of Truth." In order to accomplish this extremely worthwhile effort, every girl must have the helpful cooperation of her mother. This was very successfully done on the day indicated, and some of the mothers brought articles of historical value, and many interesting and valuable stories of pioneer life were related. This Ward is working on a plan which will include many mothers who do not have daughters of Gleaner age, but who will be able to contribute stories and experiences which are most valuable. These will be compiled in a Ward Book together with a history of the Ward, and will be accessible to all.
Notes to the Field
To Our Music Leaders
Suggestions for February, by Margaret Hull Eastmond of Utah Stake.
Theology: "Love At Home", "Who Are These Arrayed in White', sing to the tune of "Jesus Lover of My Soul". "Beautiful Zion Built Above".
NOTES TO Work and Business: Spend a few minutes singing the songs of one of our L. D. S. Composers. For example— Evan Stephens "Go When The Morning Shineth" Sun. School Song Book—No. 63. "Zion Prospers, All is Well" Sun. School Song Book—No. 153.
Literature: (Hebrew music given in Jan.) THE FIELD 103
Songs— "Captain of Israel's Host" Songs of Zion, No. 189: Psalmody, No.95 This can be sung by a Relief Society Chorus if desired. "The Song of Ruth''.* Read it if you cannot get the music. (Book of Ruth, 1:16-17). *This can be secured at the Beesley Music Company, 61 So. Main, Salt Lake City, for 40 cents.
Our Magazine
We deeply appreciate the effective work that is being carried on in the interest of our magazine. We would like those who go over the top or who do some unique things to further the subscribing for and the reading of the magazine to let us know of their efforts and successes. Wards should report to their Stakes and Stakes should report to the magazine office when they have 75% or more magazine subscriptions. The information should include the Ward membership, the number of subscriptions, and the names of the Ward agents. The Second Ward in Brigham City has 100% magazine subscriptions. Many are sending it to their friends. One Sister from Roberts, Rigby Stake, came to the office recently and subscribed for 16 magazines. Some Wards have sent the magazine to every widow in their Wards.
Wells Stake
On Sunday, Dec. 31, 1933, the Church added another Stake to its roster. Wells Stake was organized from the northern division of Grant Stake. This will call into service many people and will strengthen the work and give opportunities for development to a host of new officers.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
THE GENERAL BOARD
MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON President MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN First Counselor MRS. JULIA A. CHILD Second Counselor MRS. CORA A. LUND General Secretary and Treasurer
Mrs. Emma A. Binkley Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Ida F. Beal Miss Sarah M. McClelland Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Katie M. Barker Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Mary Connelly Kimball Mrs. Cora L. Bennion
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor: Mary Connelly Kimball Manager: Louise Y. Robison Assistant Manager: Amy Brown Lyman
VOL. XXI FEBRUARY, 1934 No. 2
EDITORIAL
A Valuable Practice
Matthew Arnold's daughter records that her father each year kept a narrow little book in which he would jot down his engagements and any short or striking sentences that he came across during his daily reading or which he recalled as suitable to his mood. This practice continued for 37 years. The quotations from each fifth year have been printed and they reproduce the portrait of the mind that selected them. Nevinson in his "Books and Personalities" tells us that these quotations came from books universally recognized as containing the best that has been thought. The greatest number came from the best books in the Bible. Extracts from the Psalms and St. Paul's letters are very numerous. There are many from Plato and the Tragedians. From writers after Christ, Goethe's wise sayings are probably the most numerous. The quotations are largely exhortations to definite and constant labor, to work that "fills and moralizes the day." A favorite was the Latin precept, "Always set before yourself some definite aim." The two essentials of good work—isolation and limitation, are emphasized. Again and again do the quotations urge one to disregard the transient and trivial and serve the Eternal alone. The same passages are often repeated after an interval of fifteen years. In later life sentences stress cheerfulness, amiability, patience and the way of peace. One of Arnold's favorite maxims was Goethe's "He that would do good work must never scold, must never trouble himself about the unfitness of things, but simply go on doing good work." Another was, "Oh that thou hadst hearkened unto my commandments! Then had thy peace been as a river." EDITORIAL Constant reference is made to "Thy Law."
Would it not be a good practice for us to invest each year in a little book that would fit into our handbag and jot down some of the most stimulating and beautiful passages we read? This practice has many things to recommend it. Writing the sentences impress them upon 105 the mind. It tends to make them more our own than a casual reading does. We could look over them again and again until we would know most of them. This would enrich our lives, stimulate worthwhile thinking, give us food for thought and for conversation. In after years these books could be brought forth to remind us of thoughts we had treasured through the years.
1933 a Record Year for Women
In 1933 women achieved honors in politics and science never attained before by members of their sex. One writer says, "In 1920 women gained the right to vote, in 1933 they obtained appointments to major governmental positions." Secretary Frances Perkins is the first woman in the Cabinet and Ruth Bryan Owen, Minister to Denmark, is the first woman diplomatic envoy to a foreign government. Phoebe Umlie, a member of the national advisory board on aeronautics, is the first woman to ever hold a government post in connection with aviation. Nellie Tayloe Ross is the first woman director of the mint. When Mrs. Blair Banister was made assistant treasurer of the United States, she became the first woman to hold that position. 1933 saw Kathryn McCarthy O'Laughlin, an attorney from Kansas and Virginia E. Jenckes, a farmer of Indiana, and Mrs Isabella Greenway of Arizona added to the roster of Congress. Law enforcement opened its doors to a woman when Mrs. Elizabeth Bass was made head of the Chicago narcotic bureau. Rose Schneiderman is on the national labor advisory board. Mrs. Mary Harriman Rumsey is chairman of the consumers' advisory board, and Mrs. Ellen S. Woodward is in charge of the women's activities for the federal relief administration. Marjorie K. Rawlings of Hawthorne, Florida, won the 1933 O. Henry memorial award. Cecelia Beaux of New York was admitted into the exclusive membership of the American Academy of Arts and Letters, Maude Slye of the University of Chicago is outstanding in the battle waged against cancer. Mrs. Anne Morrow Lindbergh as navigator and wireless operator on the aerial survey made by her distinguished husband, has won a high place in navigation of the air. To Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt, it is said, more than any other one woman goes the credit for focussing public interest on women's activities so sharply in 1933. It is likely that she will continue to do much to place women in the forefront of achievement. She is deeply interested along many lines and puts her heart and soul into the progress of women, the welfare of children, and to all movements looking to the betterment of mankind.
106 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
New Books
"AMERICA SELF-CONTAINED" By Samuel Crowther
In his volume, "America Self-Contained," Samuel Crowther strongly, clearly, forcibly urges that the United States stand alone, working out its own destiny untrammeled by foreign alliances. He says that we can depend upon our own resources, that there is scarcely one important commodity we need import, that we have the inventors and research chemists, the machines and the raw materials that will enable us to compete with all nations. We have the highest purchasing power of any nation. We have "One hundred and twenty millions of people speaking a common language and striving to find a common ideal: natural resources of almost infinite extent and variety; human technical resources which can put to use these natural resources and also create for us by synthesis the few materials which we need and do not possess: ample means to exchange and diffuse such wealth as we may choose to create." He calls attention to the fact that we must, "choose whether we shall take what we have and, making our isolation more complete. Shape our own destinies, or whether we shall break down our isolation, abandon the principles of the founders and accept a standard of life fixed by the lowest common denominator of the world's standards." He says we must decide whether we shall deliberately control our own destiny in the light of science or whether we shall drift on trying somehow to be out of world affairs and still in them. A new freedom is being born, not political but economic "and, just as it was given to the United States to begin a new era in political freedom, so it has come to pass that today the United States, for long the most nearly self-sufficient of nations, has through the labor of her scientists become wholly self-sufficient and hence able to take the leadership in developing a new political economy of freedom. No nation has ever before been given the opportunity to have and to hold a complete liberty and no nation has ever before had the opportunity wholly to shape its own destiny. Even Rome at the pinnacle of her power had to depend on far-flung provinces for the necessities of life. He points out that today, owing to the World War, the United States has no friends among the nations, but rather bitter enemies. "This and only this have we accomplished by dint of nearly two decades of insistent meddling into the affairs of other nations." * * * * "We are back from our crusades richer perhaps in experience, poorer certainly by upwards of twenty billions." He says, "Fortunately we have escaped tangling our affairs with those of the World and have almost achieved isolation." "We have returned—or have been returned, to the posture which George Washington held as prerequisite to perfecting our freedom." "Now we have to decide whether we shall deliberately control our own destinies in the light of science or whether we shall drift on, trying somehow to be out of world affairs and still in them." The book is most stimulating and EDITORIAL is well worth reading.—Published by Doubleday, Doran & Co. Price $2.00.
"BLACK" By B F, Gardner
In "Black", a collection of poems written by B. F. Gardner, whose parents were born under the yoke of Slavery, one reads of the longing and heartbreak of those who feel they could do so much were they 107 not hindered by color. The book is really the voice of the Negro race calling for equal opportunities with the White race and feeling that they should be treated as though they were white. The volume contains many lovely poems voicing a longing to be of service, to uplift the sorrowing, and to scatter sunshine—Published by the Caxton Printers, Price $1.50.
Our Handbook
We learn through questions that are asked from time to time that many are not using our Handbook, for the questions asked are answered in that volume. Every officer should peruse it repeatedly and every member who can should add it to her collection of books. It gives the history and regulations of the organization and reading it will be delightful and profitable to all members.
TO OUR WRITERS
Stamped, self-addressed envelope should accompany manuscript.
Sorrow By Carrie Tanner
O grief, thou burden on the human heart! Oh would that at a word thou could'st depart! Like cloud that hides the warmth of sun's bright ray Thou art. But clouds forever cannot stay.
The darkest cloud oft brings the sudden rain; And thirsting flowers, grass, and tree, and grain Receive their need, and give in swift return Their beauties rich in garden, field and urn.
Thus shadows in our lives bring shock and fears, And clouds of darkness oft bring sudden tears. But who doth know that clouds in life are vain, And that beyond there's not resultant gain?
The tears, like rain, our dying flowers give Refreshing life, and nurtured faith doth live. And strength of heart through sorrow's pain endured. Then comes a vision sweet, no more obscured,
Lesson Department
Theology and Testimony (First Week in April)
Gifts of the Spirit
1. How Obtained. Concerning the manner in which gifts are obtained from Him, the Lord has said: "All who will have a blessing at my hands shall abide the law which was appointed for that blessing, and the conditions thereof, as were instituted from before the foundation of the world." (D. & C, 132:5.) Thus the Lord never gives a blessing to those who have not obeyed the requisite law. In other words, the condition of an individual at any instant is the sum total of his previous attitude toward law. There is no fortuity or caprice in the operations of God's law or in the distribution of his blessings. Before man came to earth, he accepted a given plan and agreed to abide by its provisions. There is no other way by which he can return to the presence of the Father. His blessings are commensurate with the degree of his obedience.
2. After this plan was accepted, man was a long time in the presence of the Father before he came to earth. Thus the state of his development at the time of birth is the product of a long line of pre-earthly attitude. Man does not have his beginning at the time of birth; he is already a partially developed individual, comparable to the student who has been at school for some years. He is not a beginner, and he is not a graduate.
3. It is a widely recognized fact that at birth some individuals are much more advanced than others, and that thereafter they progress far faster than the group. These are commonly spoken of as the "gifted" ones, seemingly with the thought that their superiority is derived from some extraneous source, as an unearned and unmerited blessing. This, of course, is a mistake.
4. It appears that some progress had been made by the spirits of men even before the council in heaven, as witness the following: "The Lord had shown unto me, Abraham, the intelligences that were organized before the world was; and among all these there were many of the noble and great ones; and God saw these souls that they were good, and he stood in the midst of them, and he said: These I will make my rulers; for he stood among those that were spirits, and he saw that they were good; and he said unto me: Abraham, thou art one of them; thou wast chosen before thou wast born." (Abraham 3:22, 23.)
5. It is not unreasonable to believe, therefore, that the condition of man's spirit at the time of birth is the product of his various reactions to the laws with which he has come in contact. Aside from his own wilful responses, he is doubtless also influenced to a considerable extent by the acts of his parents, and probably others. It has been said that the sins, likewise the good deeds of the parents are visited upon the children to the third and fourth generations. Some children, for example, are handicapped from birth by disease, such as syphilis, arising from parental sin. Others LESSON DEPARTMENT are blessed with strong bodies, unimpaired by parental misbehavior or neglect. Thus, as already said, the condition of the individual at the time of birth is the product of his reactions to the various agencies affecting it.
6. Variety of Gifts. The Lord has said that, "The Spirit giveth light to every man that cometh into the world; and the Spirit enlighteneth every man through the world, that hearkeneth to the voice of the Spirit." (D. & C. 84:46.) No one, therefore, is neglected. Every one receives light, doubtless in different degrees, as the following statement declares: "There are many gifts, and to every man is given a gift by the Spirit of God. To some is given one, and to some is given another, that all may be profited thereby." (D. & C. 46:11, 12.) Moreover, considering the matter of degree, it is easily conceivable that there are as many gifts as there are individuals.
7. Nature of the Gifts. Here is the Lord's enumeration: "To some it is given by the Holy Ghost to know that Jesus Christ is the Son of God, and that he was crucified for the sins of the world. To others it is given to believe on their words, that they also might have eternal life if they continue faithful. And again, to some it is given by the Holy Ghost to know the differences of administration, as it will be pleasing unto the same Lord, according as the Lord will, suiting his mercies according to the conditions of the children of men. And again, it is given by the Holy Ghost to some to know the diversities of operations, whether they be of God, that the manifestations of the Spirit may be given to every man to profit withal. And again, verily I say unto you, to some 109 is given, by the Spirit of God, the word of wisdom, To another is given the word of knowledge, that all may be taught to be wise and to have knowledge. And again, to some it is given to have faith to be healed; — and to others it is given to have faith to heal. And again, to some is given the working of miracles; and to others it is given to prophesy; and to others the discerning of spirits. And again, it is given to some to speak with tongues; and to another is given the interpretation of tongues. And all these gifts come from God, for the benefit of the children of God. And unto the bishop of the church, and unto such as God shall appoint and ordain to watch over the church and to be elders unto the church, are to have it given unto them to discern all those gifts lest there shall be any among you professing and yet be not of God." (D. & C. 46:13-27.)
8. Developed by Use. It was pointed out earlier in this lesson that the superiorities possessed by certain individuals at the time of birth are the result of reaction to law. It is equally true that after birth these gifts will improve with use, and deteriorate with disuse. It is unfortunate that the gifted person is widely regarded as especially favored of the Lord. The fact is, of course, that he has complied more closely with the law, and therefore has received greater blessing. So far as known, Deity has provided no means of improving a gift except by righteously using it. And conversely, he has provided that unused or neglected gifts shall decline and eventually disappear. The writer of this lesson once asked an authority of the Church, who possessed marked prophetic ability, how he acquired his gift. He replied that from early 110 manhood he had prayed to the Lord for its development and had used it whenever so prompted by the Spirit. It is doubtless true, that many individuals suppress their gifts through failure to use them as the Spirit directs. "He that asketh in the Spirit asketh according to the will of God; wherefore it is done even as he asketh. And again, I say unto you, all things must be done in the name of Christ, whatsoever you do in the Spirit; and ye must give thanks unto God in the Spirit for whatever blessing ye are blessed with." (D. & C. 46:30-32.)
9. Purpose of the Gifts. Gifts are given for the benefit of not only those who possess them, but of others as well, that all may be benefited thereby. Gifts are not given for ulterior motives or for the benefit of those who seek for a sign to consume them upon their lusts. The Lord says: "They are given for the benefit of those who love me and keep all my commandments, and him that seeketh so to do; that all may be benefited that seek or that ask of me, that ask and not for a sign that they may consume it upon their lusts." (D. & C. 46:9.)
10. Perhaps God's greatest condemnation of those who possess gifts and seek to hide them, is that he takes the gifts away. Latter-day Saints should remember that their talents are intended for the benefit of others as well as of themselves, and, moreover, that they are intensified through proper use.
11. Variety of. Gifts. It is great wisdom that God should give a variety of gifts to his children. If this had not been done, all would not profit thereby, and symmetry of development would be unknown. Ordinarily in a council of Latter-day Saints there are nearly as many gifts RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE as there are individuals. This promotes strength and solidarity. The decisions of such a body are the fusion of a variety of gifts—hence their strength and worth.
12. In an effort to explain the importance of the various gifts and the unity of purpose for which they exist, Paul the Apostle wrote the saints at Corinth as follows: "All these worketh that one and the selfsame Spirit, dividing to every man severally as he will. For as the body is one, and hath many members, and all the members of that one body, being many, are one body; so also is Christ. For by one Spirit are we all baptized into one body, whether we be Jews or Gentiles, whether we be bond or free; and have been all made to drink into one Spirit. For the body is not one member, but many. If the foot shall say, Because I am not the hand, I am not of the body; is it therefore not of the body? And if the ear shall say, Because I am not the eye, I am not of the body; is it therefore not of the body? If the whole body were an eye, where were the hearing? If the whole body were hearing, where were the smelling? But now hath God set the members every one of them in the body, as it hath pleased him. And if they were all one member, where were the body? * * * The eye cannot say unto the hand, I have no need of thee: nor again, the head to the feet, I have no need of you. * * * There should be no schism in the body. * * * Ye are the body of Christ, and members in particular' (I Corinthians 12:11-27.)
13. Seek earnestly the Best Gifts. The Lord is doubtless more ambitious for his people than many of them are for themselves. He has repeatedly urged them to search for the higher things of life, and has LESSON DEPARTMENT promised that he will not turn them away. "Draw near unto me and I will draw near unto you; seek me diligently and ye shall find me; ask, and ye shall receive; knock and it shall be opened unto you. Whatsoever ye ask the Father in my name it shall be given unto you, that is expedient for you." (D. & C. 88: 63, 64.)
14. The Lord has warned his people that the evil one is attempting to imitate his gifts, and says: "Wherefore, beware lest ye are deceived; and that ye may not be deceived seek ye earnestly the best gifts, always remembering for what they are given; for verily I say unto you, they are given for the benefit of those who love me and keep all my 111 commandments, and him that seeketh so to do; that all may be benefited that seek or that ask of me." (D. & C. 46:8, 9.)
Suggestions for Discussion and Review
1. Why is it necessary to obey law in order to obtain blessing?
2. What, then, is your conception of the term "gift" as used in this lesson?
3. Why is it impossible for gifts to improve without use? 4, What responsibilities does the possession of a gift entail?
4. Why are gifts withdrawn when they are not used?
5. Is it possible to obtain something for nothing in nature? Explain.
Teachers' Topic
BELIEVE IN YOURSELF—TRUST YOUR FELLOW-MAN— HAVE FAITH IN GOD
"Hold on to your self-respect." The most destructive fear is that which destroys confidence in one's self. It kills the "try" in him. It is so much better to take a chance, than to do nothing at all. No one is defeated until he admits it. Women can and will succeed in the task that lies before them. Women have always put the heart into every great human battle. Woman's confidence protects the ray of hope in each member of her family. She trusts each one, she believes each one will rise to the needs of the hour. Our confidence in the future and in one another was many times demonstrated during the bank holiday. We were refreshed by the sense of equality and the feelings of universal confidence. In all the lives of all God's children is much, not measured by worldly success. Wm. Lyon Phelps said, "The world counts only things done and not things attempted because the world's standards are too coarse.... One cannot weigh diamonds on hay scales." Sincere effort though followed by disappointment must count for something. Enduring universal values make up our standard of measurement. Confidence in one another and in a new and better era is essential to success. We are encouraged to fight our way through because we believe ultimately evil will be overcome with good. New hope was aroused when the president of the United States said in his inaugural address: "In this dedication of a nation we humbly ask the blessings of God. May He protect each and every one of us. May He guide me in the days to come." Let us put our trust in ourselves and in one another and in God.
112 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Literature (Third Week in April)
LIFE AND LITERATURE
THE ROMANTIC SPIRIT
"O hark, O hear! How thin and clear, And thinner, clearer, farther going! O sweet and far from cliff and scar The horns of Elfland faintly blowing!"
"The Bugle Song'—Tennyson
Books are dream children. To all men comes the chance to dream. Some in dreams are eternal vagabonds, roaming the world at large; some in dreams are rulers and potentates, holding mankind in their power; some in dreams are reformers, seeking to refine the lives of men; some in dreams are creators of symphonies, maintaining the things of the spirit in a material world; but all dream of Love because it is the way of Happiness.
The Way of Romance. The voice of Youth is the voice of Romance. Youth, whether of an individual or of a race, is a time of emotional reaction rather than of philosophic reflection. Much of the youthful expression of the world has been lost because it existed orally. When we can trace the expression of the youth of a race, we find songs of war, of worship, and of love. Western Europe enjoyed its youth when the world was no longer young, and thus recorded in permanent form its youthful expression. The Middle Ages was the youth of Western Europe. The master spirit of Romance in Europe was the Celtic race. The Celts were young when Greece and Italy were young. They were vagabonds for ages, wandering on and on to the West. Coming to the ocean they settled in France and Britain. The Celts were a childlike people with a happy, radiant view of life. To them the world was but a fragment of a more beautiful world of eternal youth, where those who have lived honorable lives in this life dwell in perfect happiness. He was a wanderer because life to him was an endless quest, a profound sense of the future ruled him. Driven to the fringes of the British Isles by Romans, Angles, Saxons, and Danes, they lived in comparative freedom for many centuries maintaining their racial temperament. To the Celts we owe a large body of charming tales, from which we know that they had a high sense of personal honor and that they held women in great respect. From them the world first received the stories of Saint Brenden's marvelous voyage, of King Arthur's passing to Avalon, and of Sir Tristram's love for the beautiful Iseult. These stories have permeated many literatures and have delighted readers young and old of many lands for nearly a thousand years. Christianity and Feudalism were the forces that brought about the emergence of Western Europe from the Dark Ages. Feudalism was a practical form of government of peasants and overlords swearing allegiance to a ruler. A system of chivalric behavior evolved which embodied with government ideals of nobility derived from Christian principles. The supreme figure of chivalry was the knight. The romance of chivalry found expression in LESSON DEPARTMENT songs of valiant knights and courtly love. On the other hand Christianity with its spirituality and its monastic life was the source of the moral influence brought to medieval life. The saint was the supreme figure of Christianity. The priest was a librarian, copying the manuscript records, also was he a teacher instructing the common people in the principles of Christian life by reciting and reading to them Bible stories, saints lives, and sermons. Medieval literature is marked with the same vigor, beauty, and spiritual aspiration as is found in the tapestries from feudal halls and in the sculpture in the Gothic cathedrals of Europe. Medieval Romance. National heroes and  knights, priests and saints, lords and ladies, make up the body of medieval romance, created first by troubadors and minnesingers and recorded later by national poets. The song's of the romancers may be grouped as follows: first, songs of great deeds, expressing loyalty to one's lord and delight in combat in his defence; second, songs of spiritual struggle and exaltation; third, songs or romantic love and courtly 'honor. Arthur of Britain and Charlemagne of France are the central figures of cycles of heroic narratives. "The Song of Roland" presents in epic splendor the French national hero, Roland. Roland, the nephew of Charlemagne, was the hero of the great conflict between the French and the pagan Basques of Spain. The romance makes Roland a Christian hero defending his country against the pagans, and gives to the hero a faithful friend, Oliver; a wicked enemy, Ganelon; an invincible sword, Durendal; the love of a beautiful maid, Aude. The poem as it records the critical struggle of France against its pagan enemy, recounts the treachery of Ganelon, who to satisfy his deepseated enmity against Roland, betrays the rearguard of Charlemagne's army, the details of the great battle at Roncesvalles, and the loving devotion of Oliver as he faced death with his friend Roland. The romance does more than merely record heroic details; it reveals the basic elements of the spirit of the French-aristocratic idealism, loyal vassalage, fearlessness of thought, comradeship, and a love of pageantry and formality. The richest and deepest symbol of the religious exaltation attained in medieval life was the Holy Grail. The Grail was the cup used by Jesus and his disciples at the Last Supper. According to tradition it was brought to Britain by Joseph of Arimathea and deposited at the abbey at Glastonbury, where it was committed to the keeping of the Knights of the Grail. Upon the failure of that group to live up to its holy vows, the Grail disappeared. Going in quest of it constituted the highest adventure of medieval knighthood. In French literature the Grail romance is told by Chretian or Troyes making Parceval the hero of the quest. In German literature the romance of the Grail has for its hero Parzival, a saintly knight. Thus we have the heroes of the two chivalries, one earthly and one spiritual. Sir Thomas Malory in the English version of the Grail romance makes Galahad a spiritual hero worthy of the quest because of his emancipation as an earthly hero. To medieval romance must be attributed a significant literary development, that of creating women 114 characters. How different are Guinevere, Iseult, Enid, and Deidra than Helen, Penolope, and Cleopatra? They are so very human and so very real. During the Dark Ages woman was not only the inferior of man but she was his evil genius. With the coming of Christianity and the reverence given to Mary, the mother of Jesus, by the Holy Roman Church, woman was elevated and love was spiritualized. These ideals were appropriated by society and became the ideals of marriage. One of the many beautiful stories exemplars of courtly love which grew in this period of romance is the story of the love of Tristram and Iseult. Chretian of Troyes is responsible for the French version of the romance. Gottfried von Strassburg for the German version, and Thomas of Britain for the English version. It will be recalled that Wagner, the great German composer, utilized the themes of these medieval romances in his music dramas "Parsifal" and "Tristan and Isolde". Tristram and Iseult. The story of the love of Tristram and Iseult is one of the great love stories of all time. The origin of the story was veiled in mystery until Lady Gregory gave to the world the beautiful translation of the Celtic saga. "Cuchulain" (ka hi Jan), which contains the tragic struggle of an uncle and his nephews for the love of the most beautiful woman in Ireland. Knightly romance makes Tristram the hero. An orphan trained in knightly accomplishments, he becomes the favorite at-the court of his uncle King Mark of Cornwall. Suffering from a mortal wound Tristram seeks healing from the magic' powers of Queen Iseult of Ireland. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Upon his return Tristram sings the praises of the beautiful Princess Iseult, daughter of the Queen of Ireland. Tristram is dispatched to obtain the beautiful Iseult as a bride for King Mark. The young people become lovers. Finally, Tristram is banished to Brittany. After many years he marries Iseult of Brittany. Again being near death Tristram sends for the Queen of Cornwall. The jealousy of Iseult of Brittany keeps from Tristram the news ot the queen's arrival with the messenger. Tristram dies of a broken heart. When Queen Iseult finds her lover dead she expires by his side. The bodies are sent to Cornwall and the king knowing the truth of their tragic love for one another had a beautiful chapel erected for their tombs. Medieval literature, tapestries and carvings recorded the story of Tristram and Iseult in many forms; modern poets have used the theme frequently; today the romance takes its place with the loves of Helen and Paris, of Lancelot and Guinevere, of Romeo and Juliet, of Ableard and Heloise. The Princess—Alfred Tennyson, The Princess, a romantic medley, is a delightful romance as well as a beautiful poetic creation. It is the work of Alfred Tennyson, the poetic genius that created "The Idylls of the King," a masterpiece of lofty thought in exquisite poetic style, and "In Memoriam" with its soul-stirring power. The poem has for its theme the emancipation of woman, a great problem, one causing great diversity of opinion ever since its definite formulation with the co-education of the sexes. At the time Tennyson wrote it, 1847, it was a new one, the University of London had opened its LESSON DEPARTMENT doors to woman for the first time and the University of St. Andrews, Scotland, was preparing to follow suit. The poem is not a philosophical treatise abounding in lofty argument or emotional persuasion, but it -is a delightful exhibition of a very natural chain of circumstances glorifying the traditional conception of the spiritual place of woman in the scheme of life. Picted, the playful mood, and the poetic expression blend harmoniously in an exquisite tone picture. There is so much tenderness, such simple dignity of expression, that so long as the English language is loved and spoken "The Princess" and its songs, "Sweet and Low," "Ask Me No More," "The Bugle Song," will hold a reverenced place. The Prologue. The broad acres and stately old mansion of Sir Walter Vivian are crowded with guests, the peasants of the countryside and the personal friends of the family. The host had provided all that entertainment could provide for his guests. The poet is the college friend of the son of Sir Walter. As he strolls through the halls he is interested in the curios scattered around. He is particularly attracted to an old family chronicle containing a glowing account of "the feudal lady of the family" who armed and led her followers against a foe threatening her domains—"O miracle of noble womanhood!" said the chronicle. The poet is carried away by a group of merrymakers to join the family at the Abbey. There the conversation drifted aimlessly until the feudal ancestress is mentioned. At recital of her bravery Walter, playfully patting his sister's head asks, '"'Lives there such a woman now?" The incidents depicted. 115 "Quick answered Lilia, 'There are thousands now Such women, but convention beats them down That I were some great princess, I would build Far off from men a college like a man's a 'And I would teach them all that men are taught; Wie are twice as quick!' " Then and there, says the poet "we planned a 'summer's' tale," as Walter suggested Lilia was the heroine and each in turn added his chapter: "So I began And the rest followed; and the women sang Between the rougher voices of the men Like linnets in the pauses of the wind." Episode I—The Prince's Story. The prince of an ancient kingdom was betrothed at an early age to a neighboring princess. At his maturity his father sends ambassadors with appropriate gifts requesting that the compact be filled. The Princess denounces the arrangement because she has other plans for her life. The prince attended by his friends, Florian and Cyril, presents himself at the neighboring court. They are received graciously by the king, Gama. He is enthusiastic still to have the betrothal compact enforced, and is embarrassed at his daughter's obstinacy. The headstrong princess assisted by two older women, Lady Psyche and Lady Blanche, has founded a university for women. The prince and his friends disguised as "three ladies of the Northern empire" present themselves at the uni116 versity requesting the privilege of enrollment. Episode II—The University. The new students are first received by the College Portress, who sees that they are fittingly robed in academic silks. They are then taken to Princess Ida. At her request the statutes of the university were read by an officer which included the rules: "Not for three years to correspond with home; Not for three years to speak to any men:" Then followed a lecture by Princess Ida on the lives of such women as Semiramis, the legendary founder of Babylon; Artemisia, the brave assistant of Heres on his Grecian expedition; Rhodope, the Egyptian princess reputed to have built a pyramid; Agrippina, Cornelia, and Celia, famous Roman matrons. Upon being assigned as pupils of Lady Psyche they listen to a lecture praising the legendary Amazons, Elizabeth of England, Joan of France, Sappho of Greece and concluded with the prophecy for the future of women: "Everywhere Two heads in council, two beside the hearth, Two in the tangled business of the world, Two in the liberal offices of life." Talking to the new pupils after the lecture, Lady Psyche recognizes her brother Florian. At first she is indignant, reminding him of the inscription on the gate, "Let no man enter in on pain of death." Finally, she yields to the entreating arms of her brother pouring forth a torrent RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of questions about home showing that her heart is hungry for "sweet household talk" and "phrases of the hearth." Melissa, Lady Psyche's little daughter, enters to witness a scene very foreign to the atmosphere of the university. She is sworn to secrecy. Still in disguise the visitors stroll about the campus until the organ of the chapel peals forth its melodious call for assembly. Then six hundred maidens clad in purest white assemble to hear the psalms and litanies as Princess Ida invokes the blessings of heaven on her labors for the cause of women. Episode IlI—The Princess. A song is sung—one of the most exquisite of Tennyson's songs, "Sweet and Low." In contrast to the scene just pictured is that of a mother crooning a prayerful lullabye to her babe as they await the sailor husband and father. Melissa meets the new pupils at the fountain as they are enjoying the morning splendor, and beseeches them to fly. At the request of Florian, Melissa relates in detail the university scheme and its administration. Melissa reveals that there exists a definite rivalry between the two women, Lady Psyche and Lady Blanche. Cyril acting upon this information gains entrance to Lady Blanche, and pleads the suit of his friend. Later all participate in a geology trip, and by design the prince and Ida are much together. Pleading for himself the prince suggests: "Might I dread that you, With only fame for spouse and your great deeds For issue, yet may live in vain, and miss, LESSON DEPARTMENT Meanwhile, what every woman counts her due, Love, children happiness." The Princess answers giving her preference for deeds that cannot die. The prince listened and wondered if this strange poet-princess could ever be won. The scene closes witn the evening shadows and the echoes of "The Bugle Song" resounding the message: "Our echoes roll from seul to soul And grow forever and forever." Episode I1V—Tumult. The beauty of the evening lures all. At the command of the Princess, a maiden takes a harp and sings the song "Tears, Idle Tears." To the song's message the princess is disdainful. The prince is asked to contribute to the evening's pastime, and in an aping treble sings "O, Swallow Flying South." Cyril, then, is asked to sing a song of his countrywomen. With a show of humor he sings an old ballad of two indelicate creatures, "Moll and Meg." The indignant women call "forbear," and the prince smites Cyril on the breast. Tumult reigns and the prince and his companions are discovered. At this point dispatches are delivered to the Princess, one is from the king acquainting her of the fact that he has been taken as hostage for the safe keeping of the prince, the other is from the father of the prince demanding the fulfilment of the betrothal compact before the aged Gama can be released. The prince pleads his cause and is scornfully refused by Princess Ida. A conference of students is called to decide whether the university scheme be continued or not. Lilia now sings "Thy Voice Is Heard Through Rolling 117 Drums," flinging anger against the raillery thus far spoken against her idea. Episode V—The Combat. The prince and Florian return home to find Cyril and Lady Psyche already there. King Gama is freed but is ordered to make his daughter yield or war will ensue. The prince consults the king but to no avail, so he goes to consult Ida's brothers. The three brothers of the Princess decide to fight the prince and his two friends rather than to throw the country into war. On hearing of the intended combat, the king in wrath declares: "Man for the field, and woman for the hearth, Man for the sword and for the needle she, Man with the head and woman with the heart, Man to command and woman to obey. All else confusion." The combat is held as arranged, and the prince and the sons of Gama are wounded. Episode VI—Conquest. The song "Home They Brought Her Warrior Dead" is very fittingly placed here. Princess Ida hearing of the combat leads a train of maidens across the park to where her wounded brothers lay. By chance, she passes the king bent in grief over the motionless form of his son. Yielding to her heart she orders the prince to be moved to the college along with her wounded brothers. The king refuses, demanding that his son be removed to the tents for safety. Now the Princess pleads her cause: 118 "O Sire, Grant me your son to nurse, to wait upon him Like mine own brother, for my debt to him." The injured men are removed to the college. Episode VII—Submission. The last scene of the romance opens with the exquisite song "Ask Me No More." The college is turned into a hospital and kindness and sympathy take the place of cold logic. The Princess is sad with a sense of shame at her foolishness. Love in the sacred halls holds carnival when the Princess yields to her lover. As the random story closes, Walter exclaims, "I wish she had not yielded." Lilia remained silent for the tale had touched her. Tennyson made the woman problem solvable by love; he had an abiding faith in its spirituality. The romance implied that women do not want less emotion but larger emotion; they need more love not less, more universal love and less selfish love; more sense of beauty, art, and right. The work of the world lies open to women for "The woman's cause is man's; they rise or fall together." Each must contribute their diversity to be combined harmoniously. The heart of the problem remains unaltered in spite of the years that have passed. In the lines that follow the poet pays tribute to his mother as he expresses his ideal of womanhood: "Not perfect, nay, but full of tender wants, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE No angel, but a dearer being, all dipt In angel instincts, breathing Paradise, Interpreter between the gods and men, Happy he With such a mother! Faith in womankind, Beats with his blood, and trust in all things high Comes easy to him." The spirit of Romance is the spirit of Love. Suggestions for Study. — A. Materials: 1. The Story 'of the World's Literature—Macy. Chapters 13-16. 2. The Princess—Tennyson. 3. Old Fashioned Tales, Hero Tales, Folk Tales—from the Harvard Junior Classics. Volumes 6, 7. B. Program: 1, Music a. Songs from "The Princess" —by Tennyson. 2. Discussion a. The Romantic Spirit. 3. Review a. The Princess. B. The Love Story of Tristram and Iseult. C. Method: This is a lesson of interesting significance to women. Make it Delightful. Note: Select from this lesson the part that you prefer. The whole of the lesson cannot be covered. LESSON DEPARTMENT 119 Social Service (Fourth Week in April) PLay AND PLAY FACILITIES LESSON XVI Two changes have taken place in the parental point of view regarding play The industrial conditions have been modified so that there is little place for children as workers. The time of the child must be occupied in other ways and play has become more important. Parents no longer think of play versus work in the life of a child and strive to reduce play as the evil contender. The second attitude has been caused by the psycnological demonstrations of the developmental value of play in child care. It is no longer considered evil to play. Even governmental agencies plan to support play programs and places for recreation. The aim of this lesson is to make this change in point of view more prominent in the minds of the class members and to give them some practical suggestions for directing play as a part of child care. The lesson should be taught in such a way as to answer the following questions: How can play be made to contribute most to the health of children? How can play be made to contribute most to the socialization of the child? How can play itself be kept most happy for children? What provisions for space and equipment in the home and the community are possible for the members of each class? Suggestions for Procedure: 1. Have each class member prepare a list of the places available for her children to play both at home and in the community; the type of play equipment at each place; the sanitary conditions of each place; the accident hazzards that are there; and the safeguards provided against accident. With these lists as bases discuss the healthfulness of play in the community. Stress especially freedom from accident, proper amount of fresh air play; and games, etc., suited to the children. Have a class member report on the Physical Education suggestion given in White House Conference Report, pp. 177 and 218-220. 2. Discuss the material outlined in the reading guide in order to make clear the socializing problems connected with play. 3. Have the class define "leisure." Have them see clearly that training for the worthy use of leisure is essentially training in play activities. To learn to use leisure properly children must learn what play activities are possible; they must learn to use all of the available facilities, and the process must be so happy that they will want to repeat these wholesome activities when they are free to choose and when enjoyment is their chief aim. Have a class member report on the material found in the White House Conference Report pp. 253-262. Have a special report on how reading may be made into happy play based on the White House Conference Report pp. 262-265. Happiness at play depends upon the adaptation of the activity to the stage of development of the child. Have a class member make an interpretation of the quotation from Miss 120 Harrison's story "Jack and the Alley Boys" given in the supplementary material. Have a similar report made on the quotations on play from Faegre and Andersen: "Child Care and Training." Happiness at play depends on the possibility of a wide variety of activities—not just physical. When children or primitive people use leisure they create. Read to the class the short extract 'Wrhhat is recreation" from the supplementary material. 4. In studying the problem of equipping for adequate recreation discuss first the reading guide. Then have a report made on the effect of economic status as discussed in the White House Conference Report, pp. 141-145. Topical reports from the White House Conference Report might be made as follows: Place and Play pp. 216. The school Age pp. 218-221. Outside the School pp. 221-228. Study the lists of playthings given in the supplementary material as suggestions for homes. Reading guide for class members: Personality, pp. 21-30. Play is not formally defined. There is an implied relationship of play with "new experience," "growth," "adventure," "group life," "widening interests," "leisure time opportunities," "play interests." Take time to work out these relationships as you read. The positive development values of play are listed on page 22. A pencil and paper will help you in isolating and learning these. There seems to be implied a special fear of the "gang". Do you share this fear? Is it possible to prevent the formation of gangs? What positive safeguards are suggested RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE for avoiding the evils of gangs? What is meant by "natural impulses for physical and mental activity?' Is a "natural impulse" more difficult to control? What is the relation of this idea of naturalness to the last sentence in the quotation from the Committee on the Socially Handicapped as given at the top of page 4? Is the discussion on commercial types of amusement designed to do away with these, to urge more community centers, to urge more attractive community centers, to urge a different program in community centers, or for some other reason? How can children be led to "know other kinds of leisure time activity"? P. 25. The attitude expressed regarding the influence of companions is rather revolutionary. Have you thought the same way? Do you agree now? On page 27 is a quotation from President Hoover. What does he mean by "imaginative surrounding's?" What does the author mean by "children's lives are lived constructively" in the next sentence? Some definite suggestions on things to do are given. These will be of no value if you just read them. What can you do about any of them in your community? Supplementary material: 1, Harrison: "Jack and the Alley Boys." Jack went to play with the boys in the alley, took part in throwing rocks and was arrested. He was just seven years old. His mother came for help. "I don't see why Jack can't be satisfied with his toys and his picture book," she continued; he used to like them and to play with me in his LESSON DEPARTMENT nursery. But now nothing seems to satisfv him but to be with those horrid Sloam boys." Then she wished the Sloam boys would move out of the neighborhood, or that she could persuade Jack's father to sell their home and move into a neighborhood where there were no bad boys. Her helplessness appealed to me. I tried to explain to her that Jack was no longer a little child; he was a boy now, and needed a larger world than his nursery and the back yard; that he was longing for larger and more varied experiences, and that this longing was perfectly natural, in fact, it would show a sad lack of mental growth if he did not want a larger world. "She gazed at me with big, childish eyes filled with surprise. Seeing that she did not understand my generalities I began to particularize. "TI would suggest,' I continued, "that you so arrange your housework that after school on pleasant days you could go with Jack for a long walk, or take a tramp to some unfamiliar locality or a street car ride to the next suburb. Send him on errands to the grocery store," I added. "Take him into the city with you on Saturdays, occasionally. Get his father to take him out on Sunday afternoons. In such ways enlarge his little world yourselves, so that he will not seek the Sloam boys for a change or new experience. "Perhaps it might be well," I suggested, "to invite some of his nice schoolmates in to take tea with you. This would probably result in his being invited to eat in some of their homes. This, too, would help to satisfy his hunger for new experiences." We talked on for a while longer and she thanked me for the suggestions I had given. When she rose to go I followed her to the door and saw Jack and Ger121 trude coming across the lot, both warm and flushed by their rapid walk. They were chattering merrily together, evidently they were just returning from one of their long walks together. — "Today is Saturday, and just after our noon meal I chanced to see Jack dressed in his best suit with a stiff collar and a big bow necktie (how he hates those babyish big bows), starting from his home, tugging in a sullen sort of a way at a pair of kid gloves into which he was striving to thrust his hands. Following a short distance behind him were his father and mother, both dressed as for an entertainment. All three seemed out of mood and in a hurry of unpleasant excitement. As they disappeared in the direction of the railway station I surmised that they were going to town, and the thought of them dropped out of my mind. "Tonight, however, Jack's mother came in to see me in quite a flutter of pleasure. She said she had told Jack's father what I had said about Jack's needing a change. "And." she added triumphantly, "he took Jack and me to a vaudeville show this afternoon, and he has promised to take us, or to send us, every Saturday! Won't that be fine? "Gertrude was right, we must get hold of Jack himself!" (Misunderstood Children by Harrison, pp. 96-98.) 2. "If we recognized the nature of the child's play and its importance in developing his life attitudes, this would not so often happen. The child's play is, first of all, serious. He puts into it his whole power, is absorbed and intent, lost in his pursuit, whether it be that of building a block house, loading sand, or pushing his engine up an incline. The play of the child is full of meaning to 122 him, because it is something he has initiated, it is an activity of which he sees the purpose. The child learns largely by means of the satisfaction he derives from an activity; hence the educative value of spontaneous, self-induced activity which is a satisfaction in itself, quite apart from any benefit the child's habits receive. "Play at this age, two years, should aim to give ease in motion, freedom for great physical activity, and opportunity for much absorption through the senses. There must be stairs, boxes, chairs for experimental climbing. A small, stout chair will be used more often to push, to climb on, or to carry, than to sit on. There should be wagons to pull, ropes to swing on, so that arm and back muscles, as well as leg muscles, may learn quick adjustments. Big balls to roll and catch, sand and water for mud pies, utensils to bang and pound with, furnish appeal to several senses. The manipulation of objects fascinates the child. He likes to drive nails into soap, to pour beans from one receptacle into another, to turn the handle of the meat grinder, or put together the separator. "How often he is expected to gain sensory and motor experience in a home where he is constantly told "not to touch"! The two-year-old who climbs on the polished diningroom table is not wantonly mischievous. Providing something to climb on is easier and more constructive than trying to check the child every time he infringes our rules, which, after all, are arbitrarily laid down for the convenience of adults. "The mother who provides opportunities for the child to help in opening and closing drawers and cupboards, in carrying dishes, in hunting RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE for articles—in short, who makes use of instead of trying to thwart the child's impulses—will be rewarded by fewer vexatious occurrences. Mothers often complain, "(How can I interest my twelve-year-old in doing her share around the house?" In the same breath they admit that they could never put up with the child's early efforts at helping be'cause it took so much more patience and time "to show the child how than to do it myself." (Faegre and Anderson: Child Care and Training, pp. 205-206207.) 3. "What is recreation? Even under the most primitive conditions of existence the whole of man's time and energy is not consumed in those activities directly related to the maintenance of life and the satisfaction of family, economic, civic, and religious interests. After these needs are met a margin of leisure remains. In periods of plenty the savage may have opportunity for giving expression to those impulses which but lightly condition existence; and during the inclement seasons, when the ordinary routine of life is suspended, he may turn his mind to the pursuit of congenial interests. In these moments of leisure man may elaborate the common life and weave into it meanings and appreciations which are not derived from external necessity. Thus grow up in the life of every group the recreational arts— songs, stories, games, dances, ceremonials, and festivals. Among the earliest of human records are the crude drawings of animals scratched on the fragments of bones, or painted on the walls of caves. These were the diversions of the primitive huntsman as in moments of leisure he relived in imagination some exciting adventure of the chase or conLESSON DEPARTMENT templated the thrills of future exploits. Through activity as well as through rest the re-creation of life proceeds." (Chapman and Counts: Principles of Education, pp. 294-295.) 4. Materials for Play: a. "As much as possible of the child's play should be carried on out of doors. We know that in providing play materials for children we must include two types: things which exercise the large muscles, and things which stimulate mental activity. The outdoors is 'the true home of childhood, in this wild, undomesticated stage from which modern conditions have kidnapped and transported him.' But 'for very many children, the pasture and the woodlot have long since been sold, the climbing tree has been chopped down, the barn, even the woodshed, has disappeared.' Facing this change in community life which has brought about the apartment and the neighborhood playground, we must provide substitutes for those thing's which were before a natural part of the environment. If there are not any trees to climb we must have ladders, ropes, horizontal bars. The modern child has no sandy creek in which to play; but the narrowest city lot is roomy enough to include a sand box. ° Every child should have packing boxes to clamber into, or use for store or house if there is no place for a "shack" or "dugout.". "Indoor play space is as important. The mother who prepares to sacrifice for a few years some of her ideas of orderliness and beauty, in order that the child may have freer surroundings, may be rewarded by a calm child with good muscular coordination. In the household where polished surfaces and bric-a-brac are 123 of immediate importance an unstable, irritable child is only too likely to result from the clamor of "don'ts". A punching bag or a trapeze, fitted up in a doorway or on a cellar beam, furnishes an outlet for energy which oftentimes spills over into behavior annoying to adults. If there is no attic or basement to be converted to the children's use, the furnishings of their rooms must be so simple that no qualms will be felt when they get hard use. This does not imply that a child should be encouraged in rough or destructive play. His energy and interests may be building up either good or bad habits, depending on the selection of materials and toys, and the place where he uses them. "Tt is important that we keep in mind when selecting or planning for toys, the growing and changing needs of the child. Too often the eye of the adult is caught by playthings which are of only passing interest to children. To be of value, equipment and materials should be of permanent and lasting nature, and should be readily adaptable by the child as he develops. Blocks furnish a splendid basis for developmental play because they lend themselves to so many uses. Wloden animals, which can be used in building up a farm, furnish a nucleus around which the child may gather interesting and constructive material. Parents are sometimes discouraged because their children fail to use expensive equipment, not realizing that the fault lies in their selection rather than in the child. To a boy of seven, a Meccano set has fascinating possibilities; to a child of four, it is a combination of odds and ends, which he juggles about a bit, and then loses piece by piece." (Child Care and Tiraining: by 124 Faegre and Anderson, pp. 208-209211.) b. Play becomes work when it is made into a competitive program or the goal made more important than the activity of playing. Popular Playground Projects— Recreations, April, 1932: Traveling theater; puppet shows; children's folk theater; reading; handcraft; stories; travelogues— with construction work; music; hikes; flowers and gardens; pets: and pet shows; holiday celebrations by children; festivals; wagons; kidReady made toys RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE die cars; tricycles, doll carriages; sand boxes; rope jumping; lawn games; ball games; checkers; chess etc.; neighborhood square dances; folk dances; return to the imitative —tools, musical instruments, etc.; parties; socials; art hobbies; nature activities; nature notebooks; photography; building blocks; fishing; outing; horseshoe; sewing of variOus types. 'c. Jessie C. Fenton: (A Practical Psychology of Babyhood; Houghton Mifflin, gives the following suggestive list of toys, chapter IT p. 54.) Home made toys One to three months Rattles, strings of beads, celluloid and rubber rings, small animals of rubber or celluloid. Spools, strings of buttons, light spoons, chains made by linking large safety pins together., Three to six months Floating celluloid toys for the bath, bells. Small lids and covers, a cup and spoon, clothes pins, rattles, made of aluminum salt shakers, tea-balls, etc., with small pebbles inside, sheets of clean crisp paper. Six to nine months Light wooden blocks, dolls, toy animals, picture books. Various kitchen utensils: eggbeater, potato masher, wooden butter paddle, etc., hard fruits and vegetables of different shapes, such as oranges, cucumbers, small gourds and squashes. Nine to twelve months Nests of hollow blocks or boxes, blocks, books to use in turning pages as well as to look at, ball, all sorts of manipulative toys: an abacus, small game of quoits, etc. Sets of pans, cups, cans, boxes, etc., which will fit one inside another, jars, bottles, etc., with removable lids to take off and put on, boxes or baskets containing a number of small objects, which may be taken in and out. LESSON DEPARTMENT Home made toys 125 Ready made toys Twelve to fifteen months Primers with simple stories, toys to drag or pull about, a small wagon or wheelbarrow, a bell mounted on wheels, toy animals set on wheels, etc., (such toys should be solid and not too easily tipped over. A two wheeled cart or wheelbarrow is better than a four-wheeled one because less liable to upset in turning corners.) toy replicas of household articles: iron, broom, shovel, dolls, furniture, etc., toy chair to sit on. A cylindrical can or carton impaled on a string or wire so that it will roll as it is dragged about is often even better than toys with wheels at this stage, because it turns in any direction readily without upsetting, pebbles, a bell, or something of the sort, may be put inside to make a noise. Empty boxes and cartons. Fifteen to eighteen months Toy trains, autos, etc., more miniature household articles, crayons and pencils to mark with, toy blackboards, slates, etc. A box to climb upon (an apple box of a good size to climb into and out of. Care should be taken that there are no nails, splinters, etc.) a plank raised at one or, both ends to walk on and bounce on. Eighteen to twenty-four months A sand pile, bucket and shovel, shells, various toys for digging, etc., toys which enable the child to reenact his own real experiences, such as toy airships, farm implements, trains, doll carriages, whatever he has encountered and enjoyed in real life, a swing, more elaborate blocks. Arlitt: (The Child from One to Six) makes the following suggestions: Toys for House Play Doll beds, carriages, stoves, wash tubs, wash boards, clothes pins, chest of drawers containing doll clothes, brooms, sweepers, unbreakable dishes, kitchen utensils: egg beaters, potato masher, flour sifter, screen play house: tea party, chairs and tables. Scrapbooks, made by pasting pictures cut from magazines, etc., in blank books or books made of heavy butcher's paper, blocks made of leftover lumber, etc. Blocks Nest of blocks, large cubes and bricks, architectural blocks, large maple blocks: cut to order. Toys for Block Play Toy animals, a set of trees, Noah's ark, doll house families. Dolls. Unbreakable, rag dolls. 126 Arts and Crafts Materials Modeling clay or plasticine, paints: non-poisonous water colors—provide paper and rubber aprons, crayons and drawing paper, scissors, paste and construction paper, hammer, large nails, and soft wood. Toys for Active Play Pulling toys: carts, wheelbarrow, toy animals on wheels, wagons, riding toys: velocipedes, kiddie car, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE trains, trucks, autos, etc. Horse reins, balls, several sizes. Outdoor Playthings Sand box and sand toys, see-saw, slide, climbing ladder, yard blocks, boxes, swing. Manipulative Material Wooden beads for stringing, large size one inch in diameter. Treat the Members of Your Family Like Strangers By Vera L. Plant SOMETIMES I wonder, as I look about me and see the harshness of the world, what causes it. Is it because the human race is really unkind? No, I think not. I would rather lay the blame on thoughtlessness. We surely do not mean to hurt those we love most; yet invariably when something irritates us we bring all our ill feelings home and heap them upon one or more members of our family. Ofttimes we have such perfect confidence in the patience and forgiveness of dear ones, that we infringe upon their good nature. We speak more sharply to them than we do to others, thinking they will overlook our faults; and we do not extend the courtesies to our own brother or sister that we do to someone else's sister or brother. We know we will still be loved but if we are cross with someone who loves us less we would create an enemy in place of a friend. Is not the fact that our own family is more tolerant, patient and forgiving, the more reason for us to show more consideration and courtesy to them, thus winning their appreciation and holding their love?
Safety Confidence Satisfaction
THE BIG HOME CO INSURANCE COMPANY
DIRECTORS HEBER J. GRANT GEO. J. CANNON B. F. GRANT A. W. IVINS JOS. F. SMITH DAVID O. MCKAY J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. G. T. RALPHS A. B. C. OLESON
BENEFICIAL LIFE
