	JOSEPHINE E. KIMBALL, Secy.

[Column 3]
		NEBO STAKE.
	Minutes of Nebo Stake Relief Society
Conference, held December 16 at Salem.
10:30 a. m. President Eliza J. Dixon,
presiding. After the usual opening exer-
cises, Sister Mary Pierce, President of Sa-
lem, spoke a few words of welcome. Sis-
ter Kapple gave in a report of Nebo Stake
Relief Society,—all the wards visited twice
during the year except the Tintic district,
held four conferences—she encouraged the
sisters to do their duty.
	Sister Hallem of Spanish Fork Third
Ward spoke a short time on the duties of
the Relief Society sisters. Their duty not
only to look after the poor and the sick, but
to look after the morals of the young, we
should allow our boys and girls to bring
their cmpanions to their homes, and no
room in the house should be too good for
them. She also spoke of the counsel the
Prophet Joseph Smith gave to the Relief
Society.
	Song by Sister Fern Stone and others.
	A lesson was given by members of Pay-
son First Ward Relief Society, on Spiritual
Growth.
	After singing, “Praise to the Man,” bene-
diction was given by Brother Christianson,
and conference adjourned until 1:30 p. m.
	Afternoon Session.—Sister Martha Kap-
ple presiding; President Dixon in charge.
Singing, “Daughters of Zion.” Prayer—
Brother Joseph Hanks. Singing, “The
Spirit of God Like a Fire is Burning.”
Other usual exercises.
	Sister Brockbank spoke for some time
on Christmas and what it means, if we
have the true Christmas spirit; we should
have no feelings against any one, and read
a poem, “Only a Drop in the Bucket.” We
should cultivate the spirit of giving rather
than receiving.
	Recitation, “Marjorie’s Christmas Tree,”
by Tillie Nelson.
	President Henry Gardner spoke for some
time on Relief Society work, said it was
sixty-eight years since it was organized
as one of the helps to the Church; spoke
of the great work that the sisters had ac-
complished among the sick and afflicted,
the poor and needy; it would never be
known all that had been done until we
meet in another sphere. He also spoke for
some time of the young people and how we
should care for them, for the work will
fall on their shoulders and they will take it
up as we have done, and carry it just as
faithfully.
	Duet, Sisters Emma Holder and Matilda
Hanks, entitled “Larboard Watch.”
	Sister Dixon made a few closing re-
marks and commended the sisters for their
diligent work in the several wards in the
stake; thanked the people of Salem for their
hospitality. After singing, benediction was
pronounced by Brother Christianson. Con-
ference adjourned for three months.
			ELIZA A. HAWKINS,
				Corresponding Secretary.
	Payson, Utah.


