WOMEN IN THE ORIENT.
		PERSONAL EXPERIENCES.
	Could anything have increased my inter-
est in the most vital question of the day—
the emancipation of women—it was my ex-
perience in the orient—China, Japan, India,
Egypt.
	During the late Russo-Japanese war I
was nine months in the land of glorified po-
liteness—wonderful, delightful, unique, mys-
terious Japan, where life is said to be a thing
of fun and joy.
	Wherever we went in this land of flow-
ers—Yokohama, Tokio, Nikko, Miyanos,
Nital, Kobe, Kyota, Nagana and many of
the smaller native towns in the interior—
nothing more interested me than the women
of Japan.
	In Japan the noblest virtue of women is
obedience. Woman’s lot may be summed
up in what is called “the Three Obediences”
—obedience while yet unmarried to a fath-
er; obedience when married to a husband;
obedience when widowed to a son.
	My first introduction to a Japanese fam-
ily was in Tokio at Watanabas, master of
ceremony for the emperor. Here we met
the wife and children and had our first Jap-
anese dinner—chop sticks, raw fish, sake

[Column 2]
(wine made of rice), and many strange
dainty dishes curiously and wonderfully
made. We sat heroically upon our heels,
sipping, out of thimble-like tea cups that
golden beverage for which the Japanese
have so defined a passion, and nibbling red
and yellow sweets—a repast that might stay
the appetite of a butterfly—or a Japanese.
	The wife, small,, dainty exquisitely grace-
ful, was as is usual in Japan, dumb in the
presence of her lord and master. She only
spoke when spoken to, then answered in
monosyllables. The husband, Watanaba,
was a great traveler, and could speak the
English language fluently. When I ques-
tioned him regarding his “all around the
world” tour” and asked what most im-
pressed him in European countries, his re-
ply was this: “The thing that most im-
pressed me in European countries was to
find that women had ideas.”
	The average woman in Japan is her hus-
band’s drudge. She fetches and carries
for him, waits upon him at the table, bows
down humbly before him in the hall when
“my lord” sallies forth. She may be di-
vorced at his own good pleasure. He can
divorce her for talking too much, for ill-
ness, for having no children, for adultery,
for jealousy, for disobeying father-in-law
or mother-in-law. He can have other wives
and what is still worse, if he so chooses, he
can bring home, to live with his wife, a dis-
reputable woman—a woman from the
street. The wife must say nothing. If
she shows any signs of distress, jealousy,
unhappiness, he can divorce her. Should
she leave him—no matter how good a
cause she may have for so doing—her chil-
dren are taken away from her and given
to the husband. She is left alone, no chil-
dren, no home, no means of support. What
is too often the result? She sells her soul
for food. Man is her sole food supply.
	This economic dependence of woman up-
on man is the result of daily tragedies.
	Chamberlain, Professor of Japanese Lit-
erature, in the University of Tokio, in his
book, “Things Japanese,” says: “The
treatment of Japanese women might cause
a pang to any generous European heart.”
					IDA H. SNOW.
Elgin Crescent 116
	Holland Park,
		London W.


