right road.


[Column 1]
EMPLOYER AND EMPLOYEE. 
	Ever since the relationship of employer
and employee was first established, the ques-
tion has existed of greed for gold on the
one hand and human life and health and
happiness on the other. The capitalist has
been prone, in all ages and in nearly all
cases, to exact as much as possible of time
and labor from the laborer; and the em-
ployee, mindful of his own welfare, has
steadily fought for some time and leisure
that he could spend in seeking comfort and
happiness outside of his daily toil. The
one extreme is shown in the willingness of
employers to get out of their employees all
that flesh and blood can endure, requiting
the service with the most meagre pittance
possible. 
	Out of this extreme side of the question
has arisen the system of slavery, the sweat-
shop, and other forms of grinding, heart-
breaking, soul-destroying drudgery. The
bent back, striped with the marks of the
slave-driver’s lash; the pinched, starved, ex-
pressionless face; the unseemly rags; and
the servile, menial air of the laborer have
through the long ages borne witness to the
inhumanity of this extreme. And against
this system there has arisen a strong and
insistent protest in the writings, utterances,
and labors of self-sacrificing, public-spirited
philanthropists. Illustrations of this spirit
are found in such productions as Hood’s
“Song of the Shirt” and other writings.
Perhaps one can do no better than to read
this strong poem, filled with the spirit of
indignant protest against the wrongs it
depicts.

	God has made recognition of the need of
rest, in the institution of the Sabbath, and
in so constituting the human body that it
demands periods of rest, relaxation, and rec-
reation. There arises, therefore, this great
question: How far can the employer make
demand on the time and the strength of the
employee, without entrenching on this God-
given right to rest? And this question is
rendered all the more intricate and difficult
when we take into consideration the fact that
upon proper periods of rest depend not alone
the strength and efficiency of the physical
body, but also mental and moral efficiency
and the welfare of future generations. The
human body is sacred. Every person owes
it as a duty to be healthy and strong, not
only for his own sake, but in behalf of his
contemporaries and of posterity. And if one
has no right to break one’s own body down
with over-work or over-indulgence, then
surely no employer has the right to make
health-destroying demands on his employ-
ees. Human life and health is the greatest
asset in the world; and it must not be de-
stroyed or wasted even in the production of
any other form of wealth. 
	There are many reasons why this is es-
pecially important as applied to the work of
women. All money-making employment for
woman is more or less unnatural. Her real
sphere is in the home. And yet, as modern

[Column 2]
society is constituted, increasing numbers of
women are being forced yearly into gainful
occupations. I believe, too, that the tempta-
tion to employ and over-employ women is
due to the fact that because men have
framed social and financial systems, wom-
en’s services can be secured for a mere pit-
tance; and in past ages especially, they have
not dared revolt for fear of being forced
by men’s tyranny into a still more terrible
form of bondage. 
	To what extent this white industrial sla-
very is responsible for the white social sla-
very that is arousing the nations to indig-
nant revolt, we may never know. When
the girl comes out of the shop or the factory
in her “unwomanly rags,” and comes face
to face with the fur-coated, bejewelled,
painted creature upon whom lovers have
showered in fleeting moments the sum of
months of working-girl’s wages; and when
she sees how hard and dark and dreary her
own road is, and how easy and apparently
pleasant the other, I do not know that the
girl alone is responsible if she fall into the
temptation. I think the responsibility must
be shared by the man who is willing to pay
so much more for his pleasure than for hon-
est toil.
	While we may not be able to change at
one stroke or perhaps in a long time, the in-
dustrial laws governing women's work and
wages, yet we have a right to demand that
the hours and conditions of her employ-
ment shall be such as not to sap the wom-
an’s vitality and leave her unfit to perform
her natural work in the economy of the
world, if the opportunity to do so should
come to her. The true woman is essentially
and especially a builder for the future. Up-
on her health and vitality may depend the
perpetuity of a nation. What is more im-
portant, there may depend on her the ex-
istence and happiness and salvation of hu-
man souls. We have no right—indeed it is
a crime—to exchange this for a few paltry
immediate dollars. 
	It is a long step from the time, only a
century or two ago, when women were
beasts of burden in the streets and of pro-
pulsion under-ground; when working-peo-
ple were forced to do their day’s labor, and
then spend the nights beating the swamps
and marshes lest the croaking of frogs dis-
turb the sleep of the pampered “nobility;”
to our own time, when we may begin to
demand humane hours and living wages for
working men and women, with some lei-
sure in which they may really live; and not
be forced to barter living for a mere ex-
istence. And yet that long step has been
taken; and we may look forward to the
breaking of a still greater light to ilumine
the working-girl’s life. The pendulum of
industrialism has swung a long way toward
woman’s enslavement; but I think we now
have warrant for the hope that it will swing
in the direction of her industrial emanci-
pation. There are philanthropists as de-
voted and active in her behalf as have la-
bored for a worthy cause in any age; and
their work will bear its fruit. A notable


achievement is the passage by the recent
legislature of the nine hour law for women.
In this that has been done, we see justifi-
cation for the hope that all will be done in
the future that the ardent advocates of
woman’s welfare can justly desire.
	Over-work for women, then, stands con-
demned from all standpoints. From the
physical, as affecting the health of the in-
dividual and the welfare of the race. From
the intellectual, as affecting the mental cul-
ture of women and its reflection on pos-
terity. From the moral, as a natural out-
growth of the two conditions just named.
For like rank weeds and noisome growths,
immorality thrives in dank, unwholesome
surroundings, while physical and mental
development and progress must always be
the basis and determining force of true
morality. From the religious, because the
utter weariness of the week’s work weighs
down the spirit, and prevents the feeling of
grateful devotion that God expects of those
who worship Him.
	Now that we have in our hands the legal
instrument for emancipating women from
the drudgery of over-work, there is one dan-
ger to which I wish to call attention, in
conclusion. Enlarged liberty and power al-
ways carry their responsibilities. We are
now placed where we must reckon more
closely with the great industrial and social
forces of the day. What effect the sweep-
ing changes in hours and conditions of
women’s work that may result from the
new law, will have on the relations of the
women and their employers, we can not
foretell. This condition, it seems to me, will
need to be closely watched, lest either of the
two parties take undue advantage of it.
Then we are confronted with the great
problem, rather social than industrial," and
too large to be more than mentioned here,
of the use the girls will make of the greater
leisure given them. Therein is the largest
part of our increased responsibility. Leisure
may be a curse or a blessing; and in the
case before us we are under obligation to
do all in our power to substitute for the
weary, grinding work of long hours, condi-
tions and environments that will make for
the physical, mental, and moral welfare of
these girls of ours, who are our present joy
and the race’s future hope.—S. A. D.


