WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		St. Joseph Stake.
	A conference of the Relief Society of
the St. Joseph Stake was held at the
Thatcher Assembly Hall, March 10th, 1911.
As visitors on the stand were President An-
drew Kimball and Counselors, Patriarch S.
Claridge, H. G. Allred and a number
of other brethren. Elizabeth W. Layton,
Stake President of Relief Society, with
Counselor Fanny Kimball and members of
board.
	A good program was rendered in which
talks on Relief Society work, instrumental
and vocal music, reports, etc., were given. 
President E. W. Layton presided. First
Counselor Salina Phillips was excused on
account of being very ill. Sister May C.
Welsh presided at the organ, and Effie R.
Montierth led the singing.
	Meeting opened with the hymn, “Now Let
Us Rejoice.” Prayer by Bishop Frank Tyler.
Singing, “Come let us anew,” etc. In her
opening address, President Elizabeth W.
Layton welcomed the sisters, was glad to
see such a good representation of the Relief
Society, hoped the spirit of love and hu-
mility would characterize this conference
as it had on former occasions. Said
one reason we meet together was to devise a
more harmonious way of preparing and pre-
senting our lessons, unifying our work, and
getting better acquainted with all details
of the same and each other. Advised the
sisters to be diligent in all that is required
of them. Spoke in the highest terms of her
co-workers, that the greatest love and es-
teem prevailed among the board. Urged
that we do not waste our time in reading
that which will not benefit us, but at all
times reach out and give a helping hand to
advance those more unfortunate than our-
selves.
	The report was read and accepted. The
secretary gave a summary of the lessons for

[Column 2]
the past year, and also some helpful hints
and suggestions for our future study. The
Book of Doctrine and Covenants has been
taken up along with Church History and re-
cited in our work meetings.
	An appropriate vocal selection was given
by Josie Follet of Pima. President Andrew
Kimball felt that the calling of the Relief
Society members was a noble one, and the
organization was one that could not be dis-
pensed with. Spoke of the privations of
early days, but believed that each generation
is in part qualified for the conditions of
their particular day; compared the advan-
tages of the young today with fifty years
ago, and hoped that we appreciated the great
development of the present; that we will
train and develop the character of our chil-
dren for what will assuredly devolve upon
them.
	The Layton, Thatcher, and Central wards
were reported in a very thriving condition
by their respective presidents.
	Dianah Allen of the board, gave a good
talk to the mothers, encouraged them to be
faithful and watchful of their children and
keep that tender parental love green, which
is ever a safeguard to our boys and girls.
	Doxology was sung, and meeting ad-
journed till 2 p. m., benediction by J. G.
Allred.
	Afternoon Session.—Began by singing.
Prayer by Elizabeth Moody. Singing.
Counselor Fanny Kimball spoke of Annual
Day, its’ origin, the progression of the So-
ciety since its inception, and the ultimate
good to be derived therefrom. Desired that
all the wards celebrate the coming Annual
Day in a fitting and appropriate way.
	A recitation, “The Martyrdom of Joseph
and Hyrum Smith,” was given by Sister
Ella Cluff Birdno.
	Patriarch S. J. Claridge gave a splendid
talk. Spoke with pride of the progress of
the women in general. Sister Mary Taylor
loved the work of the Lord. Thought if we
lived up to the light and intelligence given
us, keep humble and never forget our
prayers, we could not go far astray. J. G.
Allred spoke a few kindly encouraging
words.
	Inez Lee spoke of the progress of the
women comparing their advantages today
with fifty years ago.
	A sacred solo was rendered by Lottie Lar-
son and Effie Montierth.
	Sister Laura Nuttall, Stake President Y.
L M. I. A., appealed to the mothers to guard
their daughters with a mantle of love and
charity and watchfulness that they might
be kept from the evils that lie in wait for
them. Said we should encourage our boys
and girls to give us their confidence and be
sure to set a correct example before them.
Prayed the Lord to give us wisdom in our
dealings with the young people.
	Conference adjourned sine die.
	Singing, “The Time is Far Spent.”
Benediction by President C. M. Layton.
