IN MEMORIAM.
	Emma S. West Smith, one of the noted pio-
neers of Iron county, Utah, and of Arizona,
died at her home in Snowflake, Ariz., Oct. 15,
1910, after a brief illness.
	She was the daughter of Samuel and Mar-
garet Cooper West, and was born Jan. 3,
1836. Benton County, Tenn.
	At the time of her birth her parents were
members of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints. As a child she endured all
the hardships of the people in their mobbings
and expulsion from Illinois. She also endured
all the privations of the people of the West,
having emigrated to Utah in 1850. She was
among the first settlers of Parowan, Iron
County, Utah, where she met and married Jesse
N. Smith, in May, 1852, and with whom she
lived for fifty-four years, he having died four
years ago.
	Being a pioneer all her life she was schooled
in economy and self-denial; self-sacrifice was a
part of her nature. She always had words of
comfort and cheer wherever she went.
	Her husband was called to perform a mis-
sion of four years to Denmark, leaving the
wife with four small children. After his de-
parture his second wife and her sister, Mar-


garet died, leaving two children, these she
cared for together with eight motherless chil-
dren of her husband’s brother, Silas Smith.
	Her husband was called to a second mission
of two years, but through it all she worked no-
bly and faithfully.
	She was President of the Parowan Relief
Society for a number of years.
	From Parowan they moved to Snowflake,
Ariz., in 1880. In July of the same year she was
chosen counselor to the stake president of Re-
lief Society of the Eastern Arizona stake and
in 1883 became President. When the stake
was divided, Dec. 18, 1887, she was made
President of the Snowflake Stake Relief Soci-
ety, in which office she faithfully served until
August, 1905, when she was honorably re-
leased on account of failing health. She, how-
ever, never gave up Relief Society work, but
was always faithful and true.
	She was the mother of nine children, all of
whom she raised to maturity, three of whom
preceded her to the great beyond.
	Her husband was the husband of four other
wives, three of whom lived by her all the latter
part of her life.
	She was surrounded by her children and
friends when death came, and all that kind
hearts and loving hands could do was done for
her. While we mourn her loss we feel she is
simply sleeping, that her intelligent part has
gone to a brighter sphere where the just await
the time of their redemption and where her
crown of glory awaits her.
	The funeral services were impressive and
beautiful. Aunt Janet M. Smith volunteered
to make a statement about as follows: “I
lived in plural marriage with Aunt Emma for
over forty years. We have had our ups and
downs, we have cried together, we have re-
joiced together. I love her children nearly as
my own. I love Aunt Emma. I know she
was a true woman and I thank the Lord that
it was my lot to live in the celestial order of
marriage with such women.” At the funeral,
many words of praise were given by those who
knew her best. Resolutions of respect were
written and read by Stake President of Relief
Society Mary J. R. West which were very
much appreciated by the family, and which
have been copied in the Stake Relief Society
record.
					Lulu J. H. Smith.


