WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Women from all parts of the State of Il-
linois attended the hearing on Woman Suf-
frage before the Senate, on February 9, held
in the Senate Chamber. At the close the
committee unanimously recommended the
bill for passage.


[Column 1]
			IN MEMORIAM.
	Johannah Thompson Eggertsen departed this
life December 19th, 1910, in Provo, Utah, after
having lived in this world nearly 86 years. She
was born in Hals Aalborg, Denmark, January
2nd, 1825.
	When quite a girl she listened to two Mor-
mon missionaries explain their principles to
an uncle with whom she was visiting. These
elders, were forbidden the house, but left “The
Voice of Warning” on a side table, which Jo-
hannah eagerly read, and she became con-
vinced of the truth of the revealed gospel of
Jesus Christ. Years passed by, changes came
to her family and her mother died. She then
sought the Latter-day Saint elders and found
them in the city of Aalborg. After much oppo-
sition from relatives and friends, she and her
sister Inger were baptized. None of her nu-
merous relatives other than her sister have ever
embraced the gospel. On the 18th of April,
1857, these two sisters embarked for America,
leaving father, sister, brother and friends in
tears, while they rejoiced as the ship sailed
from the beautiful land of Denmark. Weeks
passed in crossing England and the Atlantic
ocean, landing in Philadelphia and then by train
to Iowa, where they started the laborious ex-
perience of traveling by handcart over 1,300
miles of desert, leaving much good clothing
and bedding by the way. They arrived in
Salt Lake City September 13th of the same
year.
	By inspiration, Simon P. Eggertsen and Jo-
hannah Thompson first met in Salt Lake and
loved each other, so were married February
7th, 1858, a perfect ideal couple.
	During the exodus or move south, Sister
Eggertsen was sent to Provo, and her hus-
band was called to go out to Echo Canyon to
meet Johnston’s army. After some three
months, Elder Eggertsen met his wife in Provo
where they settled and made their home.
	Intelligently they sought to adapt them-
selves to the new conditions surrounding them,
cultivating faith in God that all difficulties
could be overcome. The hour of prayer was
a sacred communion which always cast a hal-
lowed influence around their home. By in-
dustry and frugality the comforts of life were
soon gathered around them; a home was
bought from a man for clothing Brother Eg-
gertsen brought from Denmark. There was
much for these people to learn of pioneer life.
Sister Lydia Knight, Uncle Jesse Knight’s moth-
er, used to teach Sister Eggertsen some of the
arts of grappling with the hard times ques-
tions, such as making beet molasses, soap
from wood ashes and grease, coloring woolen
and cotton goods from native barks, herbs and
minerals ana to prepare and cook foods for fron-
tier people. Sister Eggertsen appreciated this
knowledge very much and in turn taught oth-
ers.
	Elder Eggertsen planted flax seed, the flax
grew, was cut and prepared for the spinning
wheel by machinery which he made. Sister
Eggertsen would then spin and weave it into cloth
for men’s suits, beautiful table linen and tow-
els, which were sold to the towns people. She
also wove beautiful bedspreads with raised
designs which she made from the raw material,
and now, after forty-five years’ wear, they re-
tain strength and beauty in color and design.
For two beautiful bedspreads, two dress pat-
terns, table linen, toweling, linsey flannel and
jeans, Sister Eggertsen received the first prize
in the State Fair in Salt Lake City and at
Provo. Not only was Sister Eggertsen an ex-
pert at weaving and teaching others how to
handle the loom and spinning wheel, but she
was also an expert at making butter and cheese,
which was exported. She was an excellent
housekeeper, looking well after the comforts of
her household. The work of each season was
strictly attended to, and therefore this house-
hold was always prepared for the changes.
	As their children came, their joys were un-
bounded and everything seemed possible. Their
crude adobe house of six rooms was made com-
fortable, whitewashed, painted, a flower-bed in
front of the house, a yellow current bush fence
around the place was trimmed after the fruit
season, cobble rock walks were made from the
gates and barns, and cleanliness and order pre-
vailed around this home. Not only were they
up at four o’clock in the morning till late in
the evening, but they obeyed the call of the
Bishop in sending oxen and provisions out to

[Column 2]
meet the emigrants. Hundreds of emigrants
from Scandinavia stopped at their gate and
were welcomed into this home, fed, refreshed
and encouraged after the long journey, and
were given employment and taught how to
meet the conditions in this new country.
	It was an established rule with Sister Eg-
gertsen, when her husband and sons would
come home tired and weary from work, to
meet them with a smile, and her gentle mother-
hands would open the gate and have plenty
of good, wholesome food prepared and spread
upon the table and properly served. Brother
Eggertsen was a very particular man, so al-
ways noted the orderly side of life.
	When neighbors and friends celebrated, Sis-
ter Eggertsen would express her love and re-
spect by verse. When the invitations came
she would have beautiful thoughts for those
whom the party was in honor of, and while per-
forming her household duties, she would write
a line now and then, thus causing her soul to
grow in love for her neighbors and friends,
and give pleasure and comfort in company.
	Her deep blue eyes, always smiling, cast radi-
ance and love around all and drew the purest,
sweetest sentiments from those whom she met,
for she truly was clothed with charity al-
ways seeing the noble, beautiful attributes in
each character.
	Sister Eggertsen was a chartered member
of the Reilef Society in the Second Ward of
Provo. She was a faithful teacher and held
the position as treasurer for fifteen years,
which caused her to learn more fully the wants
and sorrows of the unfortunate, while her as-
sistance and love was always given.
	It is very inspiring to read the sentiments
written down by Sister Eggertsen when she
received her first patriarchal blessing in com-
pany with her husband before they had any
children. On June 3, 1858, feeling strange in
