WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
THE HOME AND THE KINDERGARTEN.
	How can we make the Kindergarten build
on to the home life of the child and further
develop his religious nature.
	“In keeping the attention of the child:
Begin with the line of his native interests,
and offer him objects that have some im-
mediate connection with these.”—James.
	The child comes to the Kindergarten
straight from his mother’s arms. His home
surroundings have been his world—his uni-
verse. It is there that the first seeds of love
and devotion are sown. It is there that his
first lessons in faith have been taught—faith
in the loving tender administrations of a
mother whose all-in-all he is. It is there
at that mother’s knee that the first prayer
has been lisped to his All-wise Heavenly
Father. Such are the tender spirits which
come under our care as Kindergarten teach-
ers, and, we, realizing this, should, only af-
ter the most careful and prayerful prepara-
tion, assume the responsibility of implant-
ing in the mind and heart of the child those

[Column 2]
seeds which will make of him the noble,
true man.
	The child has naturally heard of the out-
side world, but what does it all mean? Cu-
riosity, which is one of the native instincts,
is aroused. The Kindergarten is one of the
first places that this curiosity is gratified.
Here there are other children with no more
experience than he himself has. Every-
thing is new and different to anything be-
fore experienced. How is the Kindergarten
teacher going to connect these newly dis-
covered things with the previous lives of
these children? “Begin with the line of his
native interests, and offer him objects that
have some immediate connection with these.
*	*	*	*	Next, step by step, con-
nect with these first objects and experiences
the later objects and ideas which you wish
to instil. Associate the new with the old
in some natural and telling way, so that
the interest, being shed along from point
to point, finally suffuses the entire system
of objects of thought.”—James.
	What place does the teacher occupy in
the child’s comprehension of this, to “him,
vast unknown? Is there anything in the
child’s previous life to which the teacher’s
position is similar? The first step the teach-
er must take is to get the child’s love and
confidence, then her influence in the Sunday
School will be much like that of the mother
in the home. The child will naturally look
to her for help in trouble and the hundred
and one other things which momentarily
arise. This then is one of the first steps in
uniting the unknown with the known—the
assuming the role of “mother.”
	It is necessary for the teacher to study
each individual child—his previous life and
surroundings, the different influences that
have been brought to bear on him—in order
to understand what his “native interests”
are and the manner of approach that it will
be necessary to adopt. For some children
it will suffice for the teacher simply to nod
and smile pleasantly or give a friendly pres-
sure to their hand. Thie is especially true
in those who are naturally timid. Others
will allow the teacher to catch them up in
her arms and shower kisses on their rosy
lips, while such an approach to a timid child
would so frighten him that all farther effort
to gain his confidence and love would be
fruitless. Each child must be made to feel
that there is a place in the circle which only
he can fill, and that when his chair is vacant
both teachers and children miss him.
	The child should be taught by example
to have reverence for the Kindergarten
room and furnishings. This reverence can
be obtained by having a “Sunday Atmos-
phere” there. If there is that quiet, peace-
ful, subtle, indefinable something in the
room no fear need be entertained that the
child will not be influenced by it. Quiet
sacred music, subdued tones of the teacher’s
voice, soft neutral tints in the furnishings,
inspiring pictures, all aid in making possible
that for which the Sunday School was or-
ganized—to make Latter-day Saints of the
children.
	The natural instinct of faith in the child
is one of the most beautiful things in the
world. In the ideal Kindergarten room how
much more easily will this side of the child’s
nature grow and develop. The teacher
should encourage the children to ask ques-
tions of the sun and stars, the birds and
flowers and all of God’s wonderful creations.

[Column 3]
Then she can give the true, faith-building
answer—God so loved His children that He
wanted them to be happy so He made these
beautiful things for them just as our earthly
parents do all in their power for our pleas-
ure. If there is a child who has been ill
he might be asked if the Elders were called
to pray for him. Others would be anx-
ious then to tell how they have been blessed
and a beautiful lesson on prayer in faith with
its answer might be given with as much
benefit to the child as the testimony meet-
ings are to us.
	The beautiful relationship between par-
ents and children in the home—the implicit
faith in each other—can be developed and
broadened to include that of God the Father
of all. Here again we go from the known
to the unknown, and appeal to the child’s
native interests—for what is of greater im-
portance to the child than the faith in and
love of his parents. Religion does not limit
itself to mere texts of words. God is Love
and if we Kindergarteners can nourish the
seeds of love and trust and faith that God
Himself planted in each child’s heart our
work will not be in vain although the fruits
are not matured until years afterward.
