RELIEF SOCIETY ANNUAL DAY
			ABROAD.
	A pleasant social was given in the Wret-
ham Road Assembly Rooms, Handsworth,
Birmingham, Saturday evening, March 11,
1911, under the auspices of the Birming-
ham branch. Two sketches were given by
members and friends, which kept the large
audience in laughter for an hour, and then
there were character songs, solos and ar-
tistic recitations, all of which made up a
delightful evening of harmless enjoyment.
Much credit is due those who planned and
participated in the pleasant program.
	On the 17th March, 1911, the sisters
of the Relief Society, Northampton branch
(Birmingham conference), held an inter-
esting social in the hall, St. Michael’s, Road.
A good program was rendered by the sis-
ters, after which the evening was devoted
to playing games.
	In commemoration of the anniversary of
the organization of the Relief Society a suc-
cessful and well-attended social was held at
Durham House, on the 17th inst., under the
auspices of the sisters of the Liverpool
branch. A good program was rendered, a
main feature of which was a dialogue given


by members of the Birkenhead branch. Re-
freshments were served and an enjoyable
time experienced. Proceeds will be devoted
to the good cause of relief work among
the poor.
	The Relief Society of the Sunderland
branch of the Newcastle conference held
a very interesting and successful “tea” and
social in Park Hall, March 23rd, 1911, in
commemoration of the anniversary of the
Relief Society. The proceeds will be used
to benefit the poor of the branch. The sis-
ters can well be commended for their good
work here.
	Another social was held at 47 Scotch
Street, Carlisle (Newcastle conference),
March 20th, 1911. About forty people
were in attendance, and were greatly enter-
tained by songs, recitations, readings also
the trial scene of “The Merchant of Ven-
ice,” was successfully played. Ten shillings
was the sum realized.
	A very successful social was held in the
New Hall at 106 Ann Street, Belfast (Irish
conference), Friday night, March 17th,
1911. The party was given by the sisters
of the Relief Society of the branch. An
admission fee of one shilling was charged,
and the proceeds are to go towards paying
the expenses involved in moving into and
fixing up our new hall. An excellent pro-
gram, consisting of sketches, songs, recita-
tions and music was rendered. Many of
our friends assisted in this feature of the
entertainment. The sisters, assisted by
friends who attend our services, furnished
refreshments of a substantial nature. Ev-
erybody seemed to enjoy the evening very
much. About £2 15s. was realized. We
thank both sains and friends for their hearty
support.
	The Halifax Relief Society held a con-
cert on March 15th, 1911, in commemora-
tion of the organization of the Relief Soci-
ety. A program of songs and readings was
rendered. We spent a very pleasant eve-
ning, the presiding elders of the branch be-
ing present. Elder Edward C. Rich spoke
of the good results derived from Relief So-
ciety work. About sixty persons were pres-
ent.
	The members of the Dublin branch (Irish
conference), with their friends, on March
17th, 1911, enjoyed a most pleasant social,
given by the Relief Society of that branch.
The program, consisting of songs, recita-
tions, duets and a farce, was very well car-
ried out, and was highly appreciated by
the audience. The members of this branch
can well be proud of their talented chil-
dren, who aided much in making the pro-
gram and social a success.
	Monday evening, March 20th, 1911, fol-
lowing our conference, the saints and
friends of the Hull branch enjoyed a de-
lightfully informal tea and social. About
sixty people sat down to tea, and mirth and
good humor prevailed throughout. An
impromptu program was given during the
evening, and added to the sociability of the
occasion. Possibly thirty of those assem-
bled were non-members, and the social was
pronounced the success of the year.
