SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH	-	-	MARCH, 1911


[Column 1]
		THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
	It is rather difficult sometimes to get our
sisters who have not yet been initiated, to
comprehend the large area the Relief Soci-
ety covers in this and other countries. It
has been spoken of so much as something
rather small and not of much consequence,
“O yes,” some will sneeringly say, “it feeds
the hungry and clothes the naked, but when
it comes to large and broad scope, where
does it stand.”
	Because perhaps in the past there has not
been suitable headquarters for so magnifi-
cent a work, it has not appeared to those
unacquainted with its details of much sig-
nificance. However it may be viewed by
those standing outside, and not taking part
in any sense, not even to give countenance
to the self-sacrifice of those, who have given
time, and strength, and energy, to make
a success of some really worthy effort or
home enterprise; the idea has become sort
of fixed in certain minds that the Relief
Society is almost a “lost cause.” It is not
true.
	These good women are not up-to-date in
regard to what is accomplished, nor what
the Society actually stands for. If these
sisters would attend the Relief Society
meetings in their own ward or locality, they
would see how very helpful this Society has
been in relieving want in ministering to the
sick and distressed, watching night after
night with patience and fidelity and some-
times almost superhuman courage, by the
bedside of the sick or dying. What tales
might be told of the faithful and arduous
labors of self-sacrificing women in the ser-
vice of humanity; to be sure the work is so
well systematized now in almost all the
wards and branches of the Church, that
there need be no great difficulty in doing
all that is necessary in any given locality;
for the best kind of discipline characterizes
the work of those saintly sisters who give
of themselves, in all simplicity and meek-
ness, and with the utmost fidelity, the glad
help to suffering humanity.
	There is no organization in the world so
perfectly systematized in charitable and
philanthropic work as the Relief Society of
the Latter-day Saints. And besides this
phase of the work, what has been done in
helpfulness to home enterprises? Were the
estimate made it would be astonishing and
seem almost incredible. The actual finan-
ciering of the sisters in many plaecs has
been little less than marvelous.
	In the Chronicles published from time to
time in the Woman’s Exponent, one may

[Column 2]
read of a few of these detached instances,
but it is quite true of this Society “that the
half has never been told,” nor can it ever be
—but those who have served many years in
given localities are aware of what has trans-
pired there; and of the noble women who
have quietly engineered enterprises that
have been successful.
	Think of the buildings and parts of
houses and halls, and what it has cost in
effort and planning as well as in dollars
and cents.
	Think of the granaries in the several
stakes of Zion, where grain is or has been
stored, and wisdom and judgment exer-
cised in the details of this one branch of
relief work.
	Thousands of mulberry trees planted and
cultivated by the women of this grand as-
sociation, and the cocoons raised, and the
spinning and weaving of the same.
This industry should be revived again.
Although there was in years past an or-
ganized Silk Association, and it was for a
time very successful, yet it was fostered and
encouraged in the commencement and
through all the years of its existence by the
Relief Society. Sister Zina D. H. Young,
who was always one of the principal and
active promoters of silk culture was for a
number of years president of the Silk Asso-
ciation, and after a Commission was ap-
pointed by the State Legislature, she was
chairman of the Commission and was at the
same time General President of the Relief
Society.
	There have been other enterprises and
various undertakings of a beneficial nature
fostered and nurtured by the Relief Society
that have been productive of great good.
	We recall the straw manufacture business
that flourished in Ogden under the aus-
pices of the Relief Society, President
Jane S. Richards, and her counselors using
their utmost endeavors to make it a suc-
cess, and the business was carried on for a
time with excellent results. One might give
a long list of these enterprises founded by
Relief Society women, one especially that
met with signal success in Manti under the
able management of Sister Rebecca Ware-
ham, President of the Manti Relief Society.
	There came a time when the people of
Utah failed to sustain home industries and
home manufacture, but at present there
seems to be a prospect of a revival of these
“lost arts” and the Relief Society will be a
strong force in helping forward such enter-
prises as will assist in making the people
less dependent upon outside articles. The
outlook is hopeful at present, and every en-
couragement consistent with means and cir-
cumstances should be given towards pro-
ducing and manufacturing home materials
and products.
	We are well aware that the members of
the Relief Society in the several localities in
this Western land are in favor of sustaining
by every effort possible, the home industries,
products and manufactures, for use and for
wear.


[Column 1]
			IN MEMORIAM.
	NANNY LONGSTROTH RICHARDS.
	“So He giveth His beloved sleep.”
	One more of the dearly beloved women
of Zion, and a historic figure in the Church,
Sister Nanny Richards, passed away
January 7, 1911, after a brief illness. A
notice of her death and funeral services was
published in the daily papers, and a picture

[Column 2]
of her was given with the obituary. Not-
withstanding the publication which will give
her demise a much wider circulation in the
community than the Woman’s Exponent, we
feel it a solemn duty to record the deaths
of noble women in the Church, and espe-
cially those who lived in the early days and
passed through privation and hardships, and
endured much for the sake of the Gospel.
We are well aware of her modesty and re-
tiring disposition, and yet she had that great
strength of character, that enabled her to en-
dure without a murmur all exigencies
through which the Saints had to pass in
leaving their homes at the time of the exo-
dus, and entering upon a journey into an
unknown country, going they knew not
whither.
	Sister Nanny was at that time the wife of
Dr. Willard Richards, one of the Twelve
Apostles, and soon after Counselor in the
First Presidency. She was married to Dr.
Richards in the Nauvoo Temple, Jan. 25,
1846, and the children born of that mar-
riage were Alice Ann, Mary Asenath and
Stephen Longstroth, Richards.
	Dr. Willard Richards died March 11,
1854, and three years after his wife Nanny
was married to Apostle Franklin D. Rich-
ards, by whom she had three children,
Minerva, George Franklin and Frederick
William. Mrs. Richards also had charge
of her deceased Sister Sarah’s three chil-
dren, making a family of nine in all.
	Mrs. Richards was what might in the
best sense of the word be termed a home-
maker; her home was her heaven, and was
a most desirable place to dwell in. Her
faith in the Gospel was most sincere, and
her integrity to its principles was unques-
tionable. She has fought the good fight and
kept the faith, and leaves a pure and un-
sullied name to her posterity, and all the
daughters of Zion might be proud to fol-
low her glorious example.
	Sister Richards was born at Arncliff,
Yorkshire, England, April 15, 1828. Her
parents were Stephen and Ann Gill Long-
stroth; she was baptized in March, 1839,
making her a number of the Church almost
72 years. Her parents sailed from Liver-
polo, Feb. 5, 1842, landing in New Orleans
a week overdue, and took passage up the
Mississippi river to St. Louis, where the
family remained two years and then moved
to Nauvoo, Ill.
	Brother and Sister Longstroth came to
the valley with the younger children in Dr.
Richards’ company, in 1848, the same com-
pany in which the other members of the
family, who were married, came also.
	They were people of means, thrifty and
industrious, and like Mrs. Richards, strong-
ly attached to home life, and true and faith-
ful to the Gospel they had embraced in
