a strange land. The happiness and joy which
filled their souls over the promises given were
beyond price, for they went on toiling joy-
fully, reading these blessings over often and
were happy, proving as years rolled on these
blessings were verified.
	In the year 1862 Brother and Sister Eggert-
sen received a call to go and receive their
endowments in the House of the Lord, but
their baby was very sick, so they paused. But
Bishop Scott promised them that in going, their
child should recover. Their child became well
and by receiving the ordinance they were re-
newed in life. Brother and Sister Eggertsen
have performed much work in the Temple
and Endowment House for their departed fore-
fathers and friends, and received greater
blessings in the Manti Temple, which caused
them to comprehend the magnitude of the
work of God more fully as revealed to Joseph
Smith. Sister Eggertsen says in her diary: “I
was present at the dedication of the Salt Lake
Temple with my husband and all my children,
and hearing the dedicatory prayer from the
mouth of President Woodruff, causes me to
praise the Lord for it was the happiest day of
my life.
	Brother and Sister Eggertsen attended the
Jubilee held in honor of the Gospel first being
sent to Scandinavia, always enjoying meeting
and greeting their old friends.
	Sister Eggertsen and her husband did not
neglect the education of their children who
were sent to the best schools. No work or
play was allowed to keep them from Sunday
School or the different meetings organized for
the young.
	In the year 1876, a large beautiful house was
built, being one of the most pretentious houses
at the time in Provo. All members of the fam-
ly took great interest in helping to build this
home, so it became truly a family home. Sis-
ter Eggertsen from this home saw her husband
and sons leave to go on missions and return in
honor and safety.
	For forty-two years Brother and Ssister Eg-
gertsen journeyed on together through the va-
vious changes that come into the lives of the
Saints who obeyed the Gospel requirements.
September 27th, 1900, death entered this home,
and a faithful and devoted husband and father
was called to a higher sphere. Since that time
her eldest son, Simon P. Eggertsen, has re-
sided with his family in the family home, filling
the place and assuming the responsibility of
his father as head of the Eggertsen house. Al-
though Sister Eggertsen kept up  her own
apartments and entertained her children and


grandchildren and friends when they called to
see her; there was always a restfulness in en-
tering her comfortable rooms and receiving her
pleasant greetings of welcome.
	Last October Sister Eggertsen dreamed
that her time was very short on earth and felt
convinced that she would soon be with her
husband. She spoke of leaving this earth with
so much pleasure that it was a pang to her
children. Friday, December 2nd, her daughter
came in from Salt Lake City to see her. She
was seated, writing a Christmas letter to her
sister in Denmark. Putting this writing ma-
terial away, and giving her daughter a warm
welcome, she said, “Now if my sister could
only come in and see how good I have it, what
a pleasant visit it would be, for I know I am
soon going to father. Sunday, the 4th, she
arose, as usual, at 6 a. m., and ate her usual
breakfast. Simon, the eldest son, came in and
asked his sister if she wished to go to Sun-
day school, which pleased the mother, saving,
“I will sit by that west window and see you
go and watch till you come back again, as if
you were my little children again.” She
seemed so happy, smiling so sweetly while say-
ing this, and remained on watch. At the din-
ner table she seemed to have an unusual
hoarseness, but paid little attention to it. On
the 7th of the month she did not wish to arise
in the morning, but saying she was tired, so
remained in bed all day for the first time since
her last child was born. Her daughter, Sarah
E. Cluff, was at her bedside, ministering to
every need and desire as far as possible, never
leaving her bedside either night or day. Her
sons, Simon, Andrew and Lars, were daily
callers. She requested that on her death her
hair be dressed nicely, as father always desired
it. When her grandsons called to see her she
asked them to be her pall-bearers. Sunday,
the 18th, Elder Albert Jones called to see her.
She wished him to dedicate her to the Lord, af-
ter which she said she felt well. That after-
noon, sitting in an easy chair, she waved her
hand, saying, “God moves in a mysterious way,
His wonders to perform. I glorify God that
saw the light while I was a girl; be faithful,
my children.” She passed to the unknown
country on the hill a few hours afterward, per-
fectly conscious of it all, bidding her children
good-bye.
	The funeral services were held in the Utah
Stake Tabernacle, December 23rd, 1910, attend-
ed by many relatives and friends. The nu-
merous floral tributes were tastefully arranged
on the platform and casket. The building was
draped in white by the Relief Society, under
the direction of Sister Martha Keeler. The
whole appearance denoted a delicate expres-
sion of esteem and reverence. Bishop L. L.
Nelson presided.
	Sister Eggertsen is survived by three sons,
Simon P., Andrew and Lars E. Eggertsen, Sis-
ter Sarah E. Cluff, the only daughter, twenty-
four grandchildren and six great grandchildren.
	The pallbearers were Sister Eggertsen’s
grandsons, Echart A. Eggertsen, L. Eggertsen
Cluff, Claud Eggertson, Bernard S. Eggertson,
Burton S. Eggertson, and Luther E. Eggertsen.
				Sarah Eggertsen Cluff.


