[WomansExponent | Vol35 | 1906 | May | Issue: 9 | Title: SEVENTY-SEVENTH ANNUAL CONFER- | Author: Unknown]

SEVENTY-SEVENTH ANNUAL CONFER-
				ENCE.
	The seventy-seventh annual confer-
ence of the Church was one of very great
importance marking a mile-stone in
Church history in the line of progress, by
the issuing of an Epistle to the world that
set forth in plain terms the views of the
Latter-day Saints truthfully, and it would
seem that all honest men and women
might receive without prejudice such a
straight-forward statement, in the spirit
of sincerity in which it had been pre-
pared. The conference opened on the
5th of April and closed on the afternoon
of the 7th. Throughout the entire ses-
sion a spirit of brotherly love was strik-
ingly apparent and the large and crowded
congregations sat as if spell-bound. The
spirit of unity and of charity seemed to
pervade every heart, and the insructions
were all of an uplifting tendency.
	The music furnished by the choir
seemed to accord harmoniously with the
spirit of the Conference, and on the first
day when the President announced in clos-
ing his intensely interesting discourse the
presentation of a document, that had been
prepared by the First Presidency and the
Apostles and stated that it would be read
by Elder Orson F. Whitney for the ac-
ceptance or rejection of the members of
the Church that it might go forth as an
authoritative statement—the words
seemed to thrill the assembly and to re-
call to memory some of the momentous
occasions in the history of past events


that have marked indelibly the onward
progress of this people.
	After the reading, President F. M. Ly-
man in a comprehensive statement moved
the adoption of the document as an ex-
pression of the principles and policy of the
Church, and Elder John Henry Smith
seconded the motion in a few well-chosen
words, and President Smith called upon
all who favored the adoption of the ad-
dress to arise to their feet. In response,
nearly every person in the congregation
arose—and before putting the negative
vote, the President stated that the ad-
dress was only for the consideration of
Church members and, if there was any
present who were not in sympathy with
the contents of the paper, they also should
arise. No one responded and the motion
was declared to have been carried unani-
mously.


[Column 1]
