[WomansExponent | Vol36 | 1907 | September | Issue: 3 | Title: PATRIOTISM AND SUFFRAGE. | Author: Unknown]

PATRIOTISM AND SUFFRAGE.
	That the Latter-day Saints love their
country goes without saying. But it is
necessary to do something to prove one’s
love. To be sure the boys from Utah
and adjoining states and territories have
gone freely and in some instances gladly
and proudly to the battle if necessary;
like others some have been wounded and 
some have died, and the mothers have
been brave and heroic in giving their sons
to their country’s service even though
their hearts ached at the separation.
	And there are other ways and means
by which women as well as men can prove
their loyalty and without such great sac-
rifice as war demands. Women can help
maintain good government, can assist in
the cause of good citizenship, and it is a
duty as well as a privilege to prepare sons
and daughters to take part in good gov-
ernment. Especially is it essential when
women have equal suffrage as we have in
Utah, Wyoming, Colorado and Idaho,
that they should take advantage of their
opportunities and be active in promoting
good laws, measures and regulations.
This is a valuable use to put one’s ener-
gies to. There is need of woman’s help
and men are not slow to take advantage
of the ballot when they become candi-
dates for election to any office. Very
often women are not vigilant enough to
make themselves acquainted with what is
coming, and their opinion of candidates
and perchance their vote before they are
properly informed concerning the man
or the duty itself.
	By and by election day comes and a
carriage calls for the ladies, and they are
busy with home duties and hurry off with-
out being quite sure how they should vote
if time was given them to consider the
matter. This should not be the case
with any woman with good natural abili-
ty and common sense. Men may be in
precisely the same situation, but usually
men talk about these things, and do make
up their minds and unless over persuaded
generally vote as they mean to.
	Women do not give sufficient attention
to these important matters in many in-
stances. Another phase of the subject is
that women are afraid of the primaries.
And that is where men, and frequently
bad men, go to the primaries in force and
make up a slate and stay there and slide
it through, sending designing, intriguing,
bad men to the conventions, and conse-
quently they put their own kind up to be

[Column 2]
voted for if possible, or mix the names so
that they will get in some of their own
kind.
	The women of Colorado have been in
the past very careful to attend the pri-
maries, but many women are careless in
this respect.
	The writer is well aware that it is not
always a desirable place to go, but if the
women turned out in force they could
soon change the atmosphere of the pri-
maries.
	This year primaries have been held and
delegates for the convention nominated,
etc., etc., but there still remains the vot-
ing for the city officers to be elected in 
November.
	There is yet a chance to vote for the
best men, even if one has let the oppor-
tunity of attending the primaries go by,
and no woman who values her self respect
or the welfare of her family or the public
weal should vote for a disreputable man,
who will stand for the saloon element
and such like immoral places. Ex-
amine every name on the ticket and study
carefully the character of the men whose
names are before the public. This is
true, genuine patriotism. Be sure and
vote, for every woman’s vote counts just
the same as a man’s. It is the impera-
tive duty one owes to the state, the coun-
ty and the city.


[Column 1]
