The Soul's Sincere Desire
By Lillith Shell
School was out and for two weeks Madame Paoleau's studio had been open daily from morning until evening, for Madame gave dancing lessons, and during the month of June she kept long hours, that month being given over entirely to children. The studio was on the fourth floor of the Humboldt Building; above it was the Hilsebeck School of Dramatic Expression, below it the Author's Club, across the street on various corners were the Public Library, the Y. M. C. A., and the Wimberly Hotel, all imposing in their greatness, but four blocks to the north began the district where landlords wrung rent from the poor for the hovels which the landlords called "apartments."
Here Americans, mixed with foreigners of every nationality, ate and drank and sweated and stunk and bred their innumerable progeny. Here a young Italian woman had come and married her betrothed, here bore him a son, and here, at the birth, died. A woman next door had looked after the baby for a few months, but before he was a year old the father was killed in a drunken brawl and the child was left upon the hands of the neighbor, who, already possessed of ten children of her own, felt justified in disposing of the child who had no natural claim upon her.
Each tenement is a little world in itself, and half-witted old George Bowns, living in the basement of a tenement on Third Street, did not know of the existence of the little Italian orphan or the woman into whose hands he had fallen, although they lived as near to him as the middle of the next block. Neither did the mother of ten know at whose door she deposited the bundle of filthy rags with the child inside, but when old George opened his door on a winter morning and the bundle rolled at his feet, he accepted it without any emotional disturbance, and for five years divided his living with the child, doing his best for it, and if the words of Holy Writ may be applied promiscuously, that poor best was surely accounted unto him for righteousness.
Old George never thought of naming the youngster. He had no occasion to refer to the boy in conversation with others for he had no associates, and in their private conversations the child seemed always on the alert for the old man's words, so he went nameless as far as old George was concerned. However, as he grew out of babyhood, he found a name for himself upon the tongues of the children playing about the garbage around the
THE SOUL'S SINCERE DESIRE 243
back doors of the tenement. They began to call him "Guts," and as no objection was offered to it the name clung to him.
He came and went at will. In the school about the back yard garbage his education began. Once he was moved to ask some questions about a woman he saw at one of the doors.
"Who's 'at?" pointing a dirty finger at Mrs. Kogwumski.
"Mudder," informed little Emil Kogwumski.
"Wha's mudder?" inquired the young votary of life.
"She make dinner," elucidated Emil.
"Where's your mudder?"
"Got none," came the answer, but in the baby heart a mighty desire was born at that moment.
I
One day the little Italian wandered up the street as far as the Humboldt Building. He was attracted by the children entering and leaving the place, going to and from Madame's dancing school. All forenoon he watched. He discovered that with every child or group of two or three was a woman, presumably a "mudder." He watched all afternoon. The next morning he was at his post. Scornful glances from haughty young snobs were lost upon him. He was not interested in the children. He had begun a systematic study of the women who escorted the young ones.
A plan formed in his quick little mind. From experience he knew that "mudders" with many children were not interested in more. He would watch for one who had no children. Morning and afternoon he stood at his place. He no longer saw the children except vaguely as an adjunct to the "mudders." He observed the kindly attitude of the women toward the children. He never once saw a woman strike a child. His desire to belong to one of these wonderful creatures became an obsession.
Several times he slipped inside the great swinging doors and paddled along behind some woman who was leading no child. She had entered the elevator or climbed the stairs and invariably had disappeared behind some door without ever having seen him.
But one day a thing happened which caused the heart inside him to turn over and, as far as he was concerned, ended his quest. Miss Madeline Murray paused at the entrance of the Humboldt Building fingering in her purse. Now, Miss Murray was the author of many books about children. The primer used in the state schools was a product of her brain. She was an expert on the training of children?by absent treatment. While her fingers were busy with her purse her eyes fell upon the dirty child, who was regarding her intently. Involuntarily she smiled at him. She did not wait for a responsive smile, but having found


what she sought in her bag, went in, unaware that he was at her heels.
She went straight to the elevator. As soon as the child saw her intention he darted up the stairs, paused an instant on the second floor to see if she would leave the elevator, and when she did not, sped up another flight, reaching the landing just as the lady was stepping into the corridor. He followed her until she went in at a door with the insignia of the Author's Club above it. He hung about the corridor waiting until at last the lady came out, then he sped down the stairs and was waiting outside when she reached the street. He watched for a smile, but she had forgotten him.
Day after day this scene was repeated. Some days the lady did not come, but undiscouraged, the boy returned to his post with high hopes for the next. At last she became aware of his steps at her heels. For some time she feigned not to notice him, but when she had assured herself that he was really waiting there for her each morning and was designedly following her, she spoke about the circumstances to the people whom she met behind that closed door. She pointed out the boy to them and he became the subject of lively conjecture among them.
One day, instigated by one, Marcus Bent, a frequenter of the Author's Club, a plan was set afoot to capture and interrogate the waif in the presence of the assembled literati. So on a morning Miss Murray dazzled the eyes of her devotee with an unusually brilliant smile and noted that he was performing the usual routine. When she reached the door of the Club, instead of closing it upon the child, she turned abruptly and, laying a hand upon his shoulder, impelled him into the room before her.
"Well, here's the criminal, caught in the act," she announced, keeping her hand upon his shoulder.
Marcus Bent began the inquiry.
"Say, sonny, do you know this lady?" indicating Miss Murray. The boy nodded affirmatively.
"Oh, you do? What's her name?"
"I do' know."
"What's yours, then? I guess you know that?"
The child looked up brightly. "Guts is mine."
"By George! What did you say? Guts?" The child nodded.
"Why do you follow this lady every time she comes here?"
No answer.
"Say, kid, why do you run up the stairs every time she takes the elevator?"
No answer.
"Come, sonny, speak up, can't you? What do you want of her?"
THE SOUL'S SINCERE DESIRE 245
"I c'd use 'er for a mudder," came the unexpected reply.
"A mother? Whatever made you think of that?" pressed the interlocutor.
"When dem odder kids was comin' 'ere wid der mudders I see she wasn't nobody's mudder, an' I c'd use 'er for mine," explained the boy, "an' she's softer'n dem odder mudders."
"Softer?" and a chorus of laughter went up.
"Well, I guess you'll have to make another selection, my boy," advised Marcus Bent.
"He will not," came the decisive voice of Miss Madeline Murray, and as her hand slipped to the opposite shoulder of the child the men and women who knew her so well saw something in her face they had never seen there before, the look of protecting motherhood.
PLANTING THE FIRST "MOTHERS' TREE"
On the shore of Lake Anietam, at Reading, Pennsylvania, on the afternoon of Sunday, May 13, "Mothers' Day," the white birch was dedicated and planted with appropriate ceremonies.