Birthday Party of Mrs. Susa Young Gates By Annie Wells Cannon A memorable occasion was the celebration held in honor of the seventieth birthday of our distinguished and very dear friend, Mrs. Susa Young Gates, first editor of the Relief Society Magazine, author and expert genealogist, March 18. 1926, in the Lion House, this city. The quaint invitation, containing a number of pictures and the suggestion, "Bring your memories but no presents," was in itself an earnest that something quite out of the ordinary was in store for those fortunate enough to receive one; and surely there was no disappointment on the part of the large number of friends and relatives who heartily responded. The party was held, as before stated, in that historic mansion—the Lion House, the place where, by a happy coincidence, Mrs. Gates was born on the very day the first room was finished, wherefore, the anniversary was also the seventieth birthday of the old home itselfi—a home so full of treasured memories to most of those present that the curtains of time were drawn back and the laughter and joys of bygone days passed before one like pictures on the screen—the home where President Brigham Young, the patriarchal father, gathered his splendid family at eventime for family prayer. And for kindly admonition as to their conduct and behavior— the home where the great pioneer, leader, prophet lived and died. The guests were charmingly received by Mrs. Gate's eldest daughter, Mrs. John A. Widtsoe, and a pleasant hour was passed looking around the numerous halls and rooms and recalling in-. Cidents connected with the famous old home. An excellent dinner was served cafeteria style, in the long dining rooms on the lower floor, during which Mrs. Gates passed among her guests, giving a cordial greeting to each and all; and, the repast over, the guests assembled in the large reception room on the third floor, where an informal program was much enjoyed—the most interesting feature being a beautiful tribute to the honored lady by her husband, Brother Jacob F. Gates, who acted as master of ceremonies during the evening. Brother Gates recalled in a delightfully humorous way his first meeting with her when he was yet a school boy, the subsequent occasions of romance during their early acquaintance and courtship. He related incidents of her bravery and devotion during periods of adversity and discouragement, BIRTHDAY PARTY OF MRS. GATES 235 and told how her faith and optimism had carried them over many cf the trying places as they journeyed along life's highway together; how she had instilled into the hearts of their children a love of truth, taught them the gospel and respect for the authority of the priesthood, and had in every way satisfactorily fulfilled her mission as wife and mother. Responding to this touching tribute, Mrs. Gates narrated incidents connected with her early associations and family life in the Lion House, and later in St. George, with her dear father and mother, and amusingly told of the transformation of her name from Susannah and Susan to Susa. These remarks were followed by the pretty presentation of characteristic gifts by the grandchildren, one little girl saying, as she placed a string of beads on her grandmother's neck, "Now don't lose them, Grandma; they cost me a lot of money." The music of the evening, under the direction of Mrs. Gates's talented son, Professor B. Cecil Gates, and almost entirely his ewn composition, was naturally a choice feature. One lovely song, "My Promised Land," sung by Mrs. Martha Smith Jensen, the words by Mrs. Gates, expressed, the artistic sentiment of both mother and son. A musical skit, "What mother might have been as a modern girl," rendered by a company of young artists, created much amusement, as did also a test of the musical judgment of the guests when requested to express their choice as to the better of two records of the same song by unannounced singers. Nearly all present voted in favor of the number by Mrs. Emma Lucy Bowen, although the other was sung by Galli Curci. Mrs. Bowen, being out of the state on a concert tour, was only represented at ker mother's party by her bird-like voice from the phonograph, the feeling as to her absence being, as expressed by the poet— "She has but one fault, she is not here." Professor Maud May Babcock gave readings of two poems by Mrs. Gates; and a similar occasion of twenty years ago was brought to mind by the phonograph record reproducing a talk by President Joseph F. Smith. President Heber J. Grant, President Anthony W. Ivins and Elder Orson F. Whitney in turn spoke in reminiscent vein cf acquaintance with President Brigham Young and intimate association with various members of the Young family, and paid a tribute of affection and admiration to the high qualities of mind and heart of Sister Gates.. Mrs. Charlotte Perkins Gilman, who had been Mrs. Gate's guest while on a lecture tour in the state, and who had remained a day longer in order to be present at the birthday party, paid high praise to her friend in impromptu verse, and then expressed her amazement and appreciation of so wonderful a gathering in such friendly communion; to one whose life had been so much alone this marvelous home feeling and 
 loving tribute was, she said, an event that would dwell in her tnemory forever. The opening prayer was offered by Col. Willard Young and the benediction by President Charles (W. Nibley. The whole occasion was not only to the stranger within our gates a manifestation of affection and rare good will, but to everyone the thought of these wonderful days and the comparison with days of long ago must have been poignantly present. Here sat a mature and brilliant woman, mother in Israel, daughter of Zion, surrounded by a gifted family of sons and daughters, admiring and devoted brothers and sisters, and a host of loving friends in the same old home where seventy years ago she first saw the light ef day. And yet, not quite the same; the coarse pine flooring removed for polished hardwood parquetry, the dim light of the home-made tallow candle or the fainter dip-light replaced by the brilliance of the incandescent; the power to hear voices of absent ones, or loved ones gone before, through the medium of the phonograph; when in the air are seen the messengers of the purple twilight, and through the ether are borne the voices of the great. All these and other wonders of the age, foretold by prophets and poets of old, Mrs. Gates has witnessed, and she has kept pace with the times—an industrious worker, a broad thinker, an illustrious woman among her people, and truly great in her generation.