Leisure Time for What? By Jean Cox, State Supervisor of Home Economics Education The old adage that man works from sun to sun and that woman's work is never done is not believed as fervently as it has been. Modern appliances as well as big business has removed much of the drudgery from the home. The electric washer in one hour will do what a pair of hands and a washboard required eight hours to do, It is not customary for women in towns to spend many hours doing the family washing. The electric or other power washer has released women from approximately one-half to three-fourths of the drudgery of washing. Commercial and cooperative laundries have perfected laundry processes to such an extent that injury to fabric is much less than it was some years ago. Wet wash and flat rate prices are so small that many families feel that it does not pay to invest money in laundry equipment. From careful studies much less per hour is earned by the housekeeper on flat pieces than on shirts, lingerie, linens, etc. Some interesting studies have been under the direction of homemaking departments which indicate that a good wage is earned by the women in the home in doing piece work for the family. This study also brought out the information that more women are doing laundry in the home within recent years. Some housekeepers claim that clothing and household linens last only half as long when sent to the laundry as when done at home. When this is true, laundry costs should include part of the clothing costs. Modern equipment such as electric irons and mangles have shortened the time and expense of ironing. Women generally estimate that a good electric iron compared with a stove iron saves half the time required for ironing. Owners of electric mangles feel that the time is cut down fully 65 per cent. The cost of mangling is little if any more than with the electric iron. This piece of equipment is probably not as generally used as it should be where the family is large and the size of the family will not decrease very rapidly. Ironing is much less a bugbear than when fashion dictates required yards of ruffles on petticoats as well as elaborate trimming of lace and insertion on all lingerie. The costume slip of today can be easily ironed in five minutes, while the elaborate petticoat and corset cover of fifteen years ago would require from twenty-five to forty minutes. Not only is there less material in the different pieces of underwear but manufacturers have made such attractive, easily laundered fabrics that cambrics, longcloths, LEISURE TIME FOR WHAT? 273 bleaches and nainsooks which require so much time to iron are no longer used. The present sensible straight line styles require less than half the material that was used during the ruffle and flare period. While underwear is made from better material, the total cost is less because the amount required is only half as much as formerly. What holds true of laundry holds true to some extent of baking. Even in isolated communities fairly good bakers' bread is obtainable. The increased cost of fuel and food supplies has made it unprofitable for the small family to do much home baking. Where the family numbers four or more, careful studies show that the housewife can save a considerable margin in doing the family baking. Many housekeepers, it is true, feel that their own product is superior to what they can buy. One housekeeper figures that she either saves 50c or else can call it wages for every baking of rolls and, eight loaves of bread. The quality of the product has much to do in determining its value. Cake or pastry of poor quality sells for only about one-fourth or one-half of what quality bakers ask for their wares. In the latter case if the housewife can make a product of good quality her time has a distinct value. Home baking, however, is less time consuming than formerly because of the many labor saving devices. The time element is important if it is remembered that eggs have been beaten with a three-tined fork and cake mixed in a flat bottomed milk pan. The ketter egg beaters today, however, beat eggs in one to two minutes, while the sloping mixing bowls make possible the mixing of cake, quick bread, or pastry in comparatively little time. Bread and cake mixers have also decreased the time required. The increased use of electricity, gas or oil has also contributed to cutting down the time requirement for food preparation. Makers of recipes have also cooperated in eliminating time waste. Shorter cuts in food preparation have been standardized with a considerable saving of time. Steam cooked and finely divided cereals have decreased the time for breakfast preparation. The use of canned vegetables, fish, etc., have cut down on the time requirement for meals. Ready prepared spices, flavoring, leavening agents and seasoning have also shortened the time required for food preparation. The more general use of paints, varnish, wax and polishes in the average home has decreased the drudgery of housekeeping processes. The cleaning and upkeep of hardwood, painted and varnished, or linoleum covered floors are less time consuming than for unfinished surfaces. Cleaning devices, such as vacuums, mops and specially prepared cleaning cloths have cut down the time allotment in daily, weekly and monthly cleaning. 
 semi-annual house cleaning is much less arduous than formerly. Standards of sanitation in connection with cleaning are higher as the aim is to keep the house in a sanitary condition, practically all cleaning processes are carried on successfully with much less labor than formerly. The generally accepted work of the professional cleaners has also eliminated much of the drudgery of the annual wall and rug cleaning and floor polishing. All these devices have given more leisure time for the woman in the home. The popularity of ready-to-wear clothing has eliminated much of the home sewing problem. Present styles owe part of their popularity to the fact that they can be made quickly on power machines. The making of straight dresses requires only a few minutes longer than making a blouse. The women whose dressmaking ability is limited will probably be better satisfied with ready-to-wear purchases. Where the home seamstress has skill in her fingers she can very often make a $30.00 garment for $15.00. Careful selection of styles easily made, yet attractive, will often make it possible to make a good wage in doing this kind of family sewing. The importance of big business in terms of power machinery is greater in the making of underwear, house dresses and home furnishing than in the more expensive articles of clothing. Careful studies have shown that it does not pay to make some pieces of children's underwear and some play clothing. Very often the saving is more apparent than real however, for ready-to-wear articles are often sold of poorer materials than the average housewife would buy and make. Then, too, some stores run specials of some articles and mark up others. Careful discrimination of auality of yardage and ready-to-wear will help the housewife to determine what is real economy for her to buy. If every housewife kept account of cost of material, time required for making, and then compared value with a ready-to-wear garment she could estimate the value of her time in making the garment. Where stores are large enough to have semi-annual white sales there is frequently little saving in making sheets and pillow slips from yardage material. This tendency to decreased centralization of rather recent home activities has afforded additional freedom to the homemaker. While some extra time is very much worth while, there is also danger that too much leisure is not desirable. The right use of leisure training for different leisure activities. Another important factor to be considered is that in most cases leisure demands expenditure of money. With the wellto-do family this may not be a very serious question, although the study of budgets show that people having $10,000 a year LEISURE TIME FOR WHAT? 275 income have as much difficulty in living within their budget as does the family of $1,800 a year. In one case the wants are more numerous and individual expenses are greater. With all of these cooperating agencies to decrease the time required for various homemaking and housekeeping processes, the women in the home have much less time consuming work to do. With all these helps, clothes are cleaner, bouses better kept, clothes in better condition than formerly. The question relative to the spirit of the home i is not so easily settled. It is generally conceded that some activity within the home helps to tie the family together. The empty house is not much of a home when children return from school. Neither does the house devoid of too many of the home activities carry with it the appeal that a reasonable amount of home business demands. Then, too, there is a definite educational value in terms of teaching service that results where the home has regular responsibilities. While social and educational agencies offer many opportunities of training for leisure, such as increased reading of books and magazines, participating in various kinds of social service, there are increasing demands on the family income for many large and small expenditures. There are very few forms of amusement, recreation or education which do not pile up expenditures. The woman freed from household labor has time to attend club or lectures or class. New wants result from the wider point of view. The need may be a new book, material to make the lampshade, or a more elaborate standard of dress. Accepting invitations to other homes for entertainment demand expense of entertaining within her own. Social and educational demands outside the home have a tendency to increase the number of social engagements, at certain seasons of the year disproportionally to the needs of the homemaker. As a result it becomes increasingly difficult to confine expenditures within the family income. In every system of home accounts there are certain fixed expenses. Every month a certain amount must be paid for shelter, a rather definite amount must be spent for food if the health of the family is to be safeguarded. Some expenditures must be made for clothing if the family are to maintain their self-respect. ' Demands are also made for religion, upkeep, education, recreation, incidental expenses, service, etc. The individual with an increasing amount of leisure should budget tunds so as not to spend a disproportionate amount for recreation or amusement. Pleasures as well as other living expenses 
 are becoming increasingly expensive. Wages are not increasing proportionately. If the family is to have economic stability the funds must be spent according to an accepted plan. Many housewives have not discriminated between record of expenditures and plan of spending. Both accounts and budgets are necessary for economic stability. Each is mutually dependent upon the other. Without accounts a satisfactory budget can not be worked out; without intelligent spending and a record thereof the budget cannot be shaped and fashioned to meet the needs of the individual family. Without this record and plan for spending, the family, with an increasing amount of leisure among its members, cannot spend indiscriminately for pleasure without accumulating bills or limiting vital necessities. The leisure must be planned for and expenditures must be kept within the budget if the extra leisure is going to contribute to the general well being of the individual or family. Household accounting and budgeting show conclusively that money has only a limited purchasing power. If money is spent unwisely, fewer wants and needs will be satisfied. In order to make leisure profitable it must be worked for and planned for. Too much leisure on the part of the homemaker may be disastrous to the family well being. Leisure to be effective must be carefully planned for, and the homemaker fortunate enough to have hours for self development must make the most of the opportunity so that health, happiness and financial resources will not suffer from thoughtless overdrawing of funds. Too little leisure is worse than too much. Lack of recreation is apt to make the individual self-centered and inconsiderate. When this condition exists it is often failure to paln the daily duties so that the homemaker can get away from her responsibilities. Lack of leisure results most frequently from lack of head work rather than hand work. There is failure to determine relative values with the desire to eliminate nonessentials. Leisure is needed for health, happiness and various satisfactions that come with the well ordered life. Teachers' Topic for July HOME TALKS Patriotism The true patriot is the man who upholds the laws of his country by obeying them. "Let no man break the laws of the land for he that keepeth the laws of God hath no need to break the laws of the land." Doc and Cov., Sec. 28:21. We believe in being subjects to kings, presidents, rulers and magistrates, in obeying, honoring and Pein the ine ?12th Article of Faith. 1. Our obligations as citizens of our country. 1. In obeying the law. 2. In assisting in law enforcement. II. The present danger to our country of disregard for law. 1. Encourages disrespect for all authority. 2. Protection of person and property in danger, etc. III. Respect due the flag of our country. 1. Not hoisted before sunrise nor Jeft up after sunset. 2. When the colors pass on parade or review, spectators if walking, should halt; if sitting, should arise, stand at attention and salute, a man; by removing his hat and holding it at the left shoulder; a woman, by placing the right hand over the heart. Bee Hive girls may render the right-hand salute. 3. No flag should be placed above or to the right of the flag of the United States. When flags of two or more nations are displayed, they should be flown from separate staffs at the same height and they should be approximately the same size. (International usage forbids the display of the flag of one nation above that of another in time of peace.) 4, The flag should never be allowed to touch the ground or floor or trail in the water. 5. Never place the flag for draping or festoons, use bunting with blue always at the top. 6. Never drape flag over chairs or benches, place it above the speaker when used in a hall or building. 7. Never strike or drive nails into the flag. 8. Never use it as a part of a costume. 9. Never place any other object above it. 10. The flag when not flown from a staff should be displayed flat. When hung against a wall the union should be uppermost and at the flag's right; that is, to the observer's left. 11. Itis unlawful to use the flag as a trade mark. 12. It must not be used as advertising matter of any inal 13. When used on envelopes it should. Be placed on the back 
 of the envelope so that it will not be defaced when the letter is cancelled. 14. It should be displayed from a staff if possible. 15. When a number of flags are grouped and displayed from staffs, the flag of the United States is placed in the center and at the highest point. 16. When displayed from a staff projecting horizontally or at an angle from a window, balcony or front of building, the union of the Flag should go to the head of the staff. If other flags are displayed at windows the flag of the United States should be at the extreme right, i. E. The observer's left if he is in the street. 17. When hung where both sides are equally visible, where people pass in both directions, it should 'be suspended vertically, with the union to the north or east according to the direction of the hall or street. 18. Remember: Either to the north, the north star, or the east, where come the stars; the Flag's own right; and that it is a living symbol. 19, The flag is never dipped to persons or things. Other colors, state, or organization will always render this honor to the Flag of the United States. 20. When displayed in a window the union should be to the left of the observer, the union should be uppermost and at the flag's own right. "And never until you and I, and the citizens of this nation. Who believe in decency and uprightness and law, unite and demand that law be enforced, and demand that righteousness be done in government: never until that time comes, I say, will America really be able to say to all kinds of injustice and oppression, 'Stand Still Forever'." Wasatch 2624 We specialize in all branches of laundry work Let us relieve you of the worries of washday Royal LAUNDRY Quality Laundry SALT LAKE CITY 625 State Street f, Temple and Burial Clothes COMPLETE SUITS FOR MEN AND WOMEN Variety of Grades and Prices Prompt and Careful Attention To Mail?Telephone? Telegraph Orders Open Daily, 9 a. m.?5 p.m.