EDITORIAL James Matthew Barrie's Mother the Most Potent Force in his Literary Creations
We have among the great playwrights of modern times a well defined case of mother worship. James Matthew Barrie, the British playwright, has given us a wonderful pen picture of his mother in his book entitled Margaret Ogilvy. Yet her influence upon his writings did not cease with the volume that bears her name, for her character has been the constant inspiration of his heroines. In his drama entitled What Every Woman Knows, Maggie, the heroine, is generally conceded to be no other than his mother. So potent has been her influence upon his works, that a well known critic tells us that he thinks that when Barrie writes he imagines his mother standing at his side, and, as it were, dictating to him the things he shall write.
William Lyon Phelps, the American critic, located at Yale University, has this to say about the influence of Barrie's mother upon his writings: "Margaret Ogilvy, in her life, conversation, and influence, subtle as it was pervading, is the mother not only of her wonderful son, but of his wonderful works."
It is difficult to imagine a higher tribute than this. Mothers have worked directly and indirectly that their sons might become useful and great. They have prayed that such might be the ultimate goal of their teachings and admonitions, but few have been given credit for actually inspiring the creations, supplying, as it were, the painter's model.
The following quotation from William Lyon Phelps, bearing on this matter, we feel sure will prove of interest to our readers:
"So far as there is any key to the mystery of Barrie, it is to be found in a woman, Margaret Ogilvy. She was his mother. During the years of his intimate association with her in his childhood and early youth, she exercised a powerful influence over him; but that is nothing to what she did for him after her departure. The spiritual presence of those whom we love is often more real than their physical existence; especially is this true of the influence of parents on their offspring. They reach out from the grave invisible hands and guide our steps; their inaudible voices mould our opinions. We treat them with more deference than when they were here."