The Triumph of Love
By Sylvia
The spacious College Hall was packed with an eager crowd of people. Among them were the proud fathers and mothers, brothers and sisters, uncles and aunts, and friends of the one hundred twenty-four graduates who were seated on the stage facing the audience. To lend dignity to the auspicious occasion, the faculty of the College and the learned Doctor from Stanford University, who was to deliver the commencement address, were stationed just above the graduates. As the College band skillfully played the "Stars and Stripes Forever," and "My Country Tis of Thee," those honored guests, the graduates, personified, in the minds of the listeners, soldiers who were soon to enter the battle-field of life. Some as generals, captains and, perchance, a commander in chief might be found in the ranks. All must be valiant, well trained fighters, otherwise the Alma Mater will have failed in its work.
During the address of the Doctor these words fell with significant meaning on the mind of one of the graduates. "These young women who augment your number by one half, have successfully completed their prescribed courses shoulder to shoulder with you young men. As they enter into the activities of life they are entitled to equal opportunities and are prepared to work shoulder to shoulder with their brother man."
Then came a vocal solo, "O Love Divine," by Helen Fairchild, who had won in a state wide contest, a scholarship in the Boston Conservatory of Music. The audience listened spellbound to her masterful interpretation. Miss Fairchild poured into her rendition all the pent up emotions of her perplexed heart. As she sang, one of the young men graduates might have been seen to be greatly affected. This was apparent first by the loving gaze of admiration he gave the young singer. Then as the prolonged applause rang louder and louder a look of desperate determination overspread his face, making him look like a young football player determined to win or die.
Said young man was by name Theodore Farley, leader of his class and the most popular man in College. During the last year, he had been a most ardent and successful suitor for the favor and smiles of the beautiful, gifted, Helen Fairchild.
As the program closed, friends and admirers of Helen swarmed around, effusive in their words of praise of her song. Mary Gordon, her closest friend and companion, was the first to offer congratulations. "Helen, you must make use of your scholarship and go East to continue your voice training.


You make me weep to think that nature has not given me one single gift."
Helen laughed happily, "Why, Mary, you possess the gift of making everyone love you, and besides George will make good in his musical career. And say, my modest friend, when is the happy event to take place?"
Mary drew Helen's ear to her mouth confidingly. "The 18th of June."
"O, so soon?"
As the congratulations continued, Theodore decided it was his turn to claim Helen's attention, so, not waiting for any more interruptions he drew her by the arm, through the crowd.
They walked to Helen's gate, only making casual remarks about the graduating exercise just over. As they reached the gate their eyes met. Ted, as Helen called him, stopped. "Dearest," he said, "I am waiting for your answer."
"O Ted, don't be unreasonable! For us to get married now would spoil all the plans I have been making during the past four years. I have worked so hard for the scholarship and now to give it up as you desire is asking too much."
"Too much! Why Helen, you make me doubt your love for me! You weigh me in the balance with a scratch of paper! No, Helen, I am decided, it must be now or never."
"Ted, your reasoning is not sound, I only ask you to wait for one year."
"But Helen, that one year may change our lives. I want you to go with me to Ann Arbor. I need you. Come, sweetheart, do as I say."
Pale and trembling with suppressed emotion, Helen whispered, "Come tomorrow for your answer."
Ted watched her lovingly until she closed the door of her home. Then, gripping his hands determinedly he exclaimed, "She must not have a musical career! She is mine, all mine!"
II
The morning of the eventful day when Helen was to say the word, little in form, but great in meaning, gave promise of a happy ending. The sun shone warm and bright, birds chirped and bees lingered caressingly over the fragrant roses. Helen's mother, Mrs. Fairchild, also lingered over the roses, careful not to pluck the one occupied by the busy bee. When at last she had her hands full of the exquisite beauties, she arose, and smiling to herself entered the cozy living room. Arranging the flowers with her own loving hands she turned to the stairway and called, "O Helen!"
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE 251
In all the years of Helen's young life she had heard that same expectant call. "Coming, mother, coming!" was the usual response. What could be wrong? As no answer came the mother hastily ascended the steps and entered Helen's room. There all in a heap with her head buried in the cushions of a chair sat Helen weeping bitterly.
"Why Helen, girlie, what is wrong?" and she tenderly lifted the tousled head into the shelter of her own loving arms.
When Helen by force of will had calmed herself, she rehearsed to her mother the conversation of the previous day with Ted. "And now to think when I have just finished the work of graduation, I have another weighty problem such as this to solve."
Gently smoothing back Helen's hair, her mother assisted her to arise. "There," she said, "you can never decide a difficult question in the depths of despair. Sit on this chair. I will face you in this one, and together we will meet the giant.
"Now Helen, you answer my questions freely and frankly, then together we will deduct a conclusion. Which of the two very important events do you prefer, to make use of your scholarship, or to marry Theodore Farley?"
"Mother, I want to go East more than anything else right now!"
"Why are you so anxious about continuing your musical studies?"
"So that I can better express the emotion of my soul through the harmonies of music."
"Would this one year satisfy that desire?"
"Mother, I cannot say."
"Dearest, tell me truly, have you ever pictured being the wife of a loving man in a home of your own?"
"Why, of course I have, and I should certainly be unhappy to remain single all my life."
"Helen, do you love Theodore Farley?"
"Yes, mother, I do love him with all my soul."
"Then why do you hesitate to take that which is the most wonderful thing in all the world to a woman, the love of a worthy man?"
"It's the selfishness of his not wanting to wait that displeases me."
Helen's mother smiled knowingly and replied, "Man's love was ever thus. In the days of the cave man he did not wait for approval or disapproval, but took by force, if need be, the maiden of his choice. And then, besides, if you go with Ted to Ann Arbor you can in all probability continue your musical education."
"Why mother! I had not thought of that! O! I feel like a


mountain has been moved off my shoulders. There is the door bell! Mother, you go down and tell Ted I'll be there in a minute."
Helen moved with lighter step than she had done since the weighty question had been thrust upon her, humming in time with her hurried toilet, "Once in the dear, dead days beyond recall, hm, hm, hm,?So till the end, when life's dim shadows fall, Love will be found, the sweetest song of all."
Mrs. Fairchild greeted Ted cordially, and to Ted the shadows lifted as if the sun had just burst into view. Knowing Helen's independent nature, he had serious misgivings as the result of his insistent demands. Hope arose once more as he responded happily to Mrs. Fairchild's greeting, and together they talked over the charms of the beautiful Helen, a subject equally interesting to both.
As Helen came in, beaming and radiant, motherlike, Mrs. Fairchild became very urgently busy in the kitchen and excused herself.
"Helen, may I dare hope it is 'yes' for me?"
For answer she raised her lips for the proffered seal, his kiss.
"Two minds with but a single thought, two hearts that beat as one."
Theodore took his departure the happiest of men. When he returned in the evening until the hour grew late, together they planned. They were to be married the first of September, and then together they would climb, climb! Together? Happily? Forever? Time will tell.
III
The radiant Summer flew by full of exciting preparations for the event that would launch two more lives on the great sea of nuptial experience. When the marriage had taken place with the usual rounds of showers, receptions, presents, etc., the loving couple bade adieu to the home folks and started the journey of life together.
Arriving at Ann Arbor the engrossing interest was to find a furnished apartment built just for two. This satisfactorily done, the enrollment in the University of Michigan was accomplished in no easy manner. As Theodore bade his wife good-bye for the first time, the morning he left for school, a terrible feeling of sudden loneliness enveloped her until she could hardly restrain the impulse to run after him.
She must do something. She had discovered that Ann Arbor was not a music center, but she resolved to secure the service of the best vocal teacher obtainable. Ted was not enthusiastic about her doing this, so, to more thoroughly enjoy the results she planned to do it secretly and to give him the surprise of his life.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE 253
Her professor invited her a number of times to sing in entertainments, but she knew Ted's time could not be spared to accompany her so she declined. Besides, this would spoil the secret.
IV
Four years had gone by. Ted had led his class and was offered a position as a full fledged lawyer in the firm of Burke & Burke, the most noted firm in Michigan. Helen was so happy and proud of his success. She flitted around in their little apartment joyfully preparing for the evening when she would completely captivate her husband with the improvement in her voice.
Dressed in the blue dress he liked to see her in, because she was then his "modest bluebell," she met him at the door.
"Well, my little bluebell, how have you spent the day?"
Helen returned his playful greeting and led him in to where his lounging jacket and house-slippers were, when, with wifely devotion, she assisted him into them. Dinner over, Ted procured the newspaper straight away. Helen sat down at the piano softly thrumming to herself. She had been used to singing and practicing during hours of the day when Ted was not at home. But now that he had time to relax she hoped he would ask her to sing. No such invitation came. She bravely placed before her the song she had practiced so hopefully. The prelude was played so skillfully and with so much feeling that Ted had he been made of stone, must have responded. Involuntarily he listened while she poured her soul out to him in the song so well chosen:
"Deep in thine eyes, dear, Deep, O so deep! Down where the
love-lights So silently sleep. Is there a glimmer My glance has stirred? Is there a hope, dear, that I am preferred? Is there a spark that burns just for me? Is there a depth that I only can see? Is it my image you tenderly keep? Deep in thine eyes, dear, Deep, O so deep.
Deep in thine eyes, dear, Deep, O so deep! Down where your secrets you guardedly keep, I read the story that bids me hope on, Gives me the strength, dear, to wait for love's dawn,


It bids me still live for a love that is mine; It gives me a glimpse of a soul that's divine? All this I see where the soft shadows sleep. Deep in thine eyes, dear, Deep, O so deep!"
The song held him enraptured, but the demon whispered, "Crush the career idea," and he casually remarked, "A beautiful song, my dear, and very well sung." Then with the newspaper before his face he might have added, "But I'm very glad it is ended."
Helen arose, crushed and angry. Silently she left the room and retired for the night, but not to sleep. Cold and unresponsive she lay, she did not weep, something within her was dead. No, it was not her wounded pride! It was the cord of sympathetic companionship which binds two souls together, that was broken. And so it remained unmended through the weary years that followed.
Theodore felt and knew of his mistake. Instead of making amends he plunged headlong into his work, willing to wait for Helen "to creep as she used to creep into his heart." But Helen came not. She devoted herself to his comfort as before, but her love for him lay dormant, living, but not growing.
Four children, two boys and two girls, came to cheer and comfort them. They were one in their devotions to the children, but two in their attention to each other. Helen's only confidant to share the one sorrow of her life was her mother, through their correspondence. But even that balm was denied her soon, for her mother failed in health and died.
The children grew up and married. The two boys made their homes in Ann Arbor, Lucille, the oldest girl married a young man from Detroit and made her home there. Beth, their baby, inherited Helen's passionate love for music. She wanted to go to Boston to complete her musical education. Theodore Farley had prospered. He gave his family all the luxuries of the times. Gave them everything but himself. And yet he loved them. So Beth went to Boston on her parents' 30th wedding anniversary. Helen had tenderly told of her desire as a girl to do just what Beth was going to do, how she had given up that chance. "But now," she said, "my little girl, you may become what I dreamed of becoming and sing to me the songs I love."
Helen felt now as she did the first morning when Ted had left her to start his law course?alone! The days and months wore on, the bright spots marked by the letters from the children. As time wore on, Beth became more and more homesick. She wrote, "Mama, dear, I am having such a wonderful time. Only one thing more to make me happy if you and Papa were only here, Papa will not come, I know, but you can. O do come."
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE 255
When Helen read the letter to Theodore he only laughed and said, "As for me, if she wants to see me she will come where I am."
For two days Helen did her household duties listlessly. A storm was raging within her heart. Why submit any longer? She longed for Beth. There was no one left to care, so why not go to her?
Putting her resolve into action she called up the boys, Thomas and Fred, telling them she would join Beth for a while, asking that they would care for their father. When Theodore came home he found his jacket and slippers placed on the hearth for him, but where was Helen? The stillness oppressed him; he went to his room thinking that perhaps she had gone to visit the children. His eye fell on a note lying on his dresser. It read:
Dear Ted: I can stand this loneliness no longer. Beth needs and wants me, so I will go to her. What I do for you can easily be done by a servant. I will stop at Detroit to see Lucille. When you need me, let me know. Good-bye, Helen.
Theodore Farley was shocked. How could his gentle wife do such a cruel thing as to leave him alone! How should he know that Helen had been alone while he yet remained in the house? He paced the floor. He went from one room to the other until he had covered the whole house. Finally exhausted, he decided 'twas all right and shrugging his shoulders, with a don't care attitude he went to bed.
For hours he lay thinking. As he thought of how he had worked and planned and schemed to provide his home and family with the many comforts they enjoyed, his soul grew bitter. Had Helen seen and understood, nothing could have kept her from the bedside of her husband. All the starving of her heart for sympathetic companionship would have been forgotten. At last sleep came to his relief in partial forgetfulness. He moaned and sighed. He seemed to sink into chaos! When suddenly a mysterious personage rescued him and bade him follow! He was led through a gate and before his astonished gaze appeared a glorious scene. Flowers blooming, beautiful maidens dancing and singing. The balmy air so fragrant with the perfume of flowers seemed to lift his body and he moved without an effort. Suddenly he saw a group of women with crowns of pure, white flowers on their heads and heard them singing an anthem of praise. Helen, his Helen was there and seemed to be leading in the song! He rushed joyously to greet her but was restrained by his guide and led away. The scene of beauty vanished and he was led to a massive


building which glistened with the whiteness of snow. "This," said the guide, "is your future home." The inside of the building was made of silver with gold inlaid carvings. Look where he would, there was nothing to relieve the brightness and glitter. Horror-stricken he turned to the departing guide. "What! You would not leave me here alone in this monotonous glitter with nothing to do." The guide replied, "As ye sow, so shall ye reap. Thy life has been spent in heaping up thy treasure of gold and silver. Thou hast been blind to the beauties of nature, deaf to earth's melodies. Here, polish thy gold and silver," and he threw him a piece of soft chamois skin. Eagerly he seized the skin! With frenzied strength he rubbed and rubbed until his eyes pained with the brightness, his heart sank with the awful stillness. He grew weak and faint! With one mighty effort he called, "Helen! Helen, save me!"
The effort awoke him. The bright sunlight of morning was streaming in at his window. He jumped from the bed half dazed, but soon the realization came that it was only a dream. A dream which had its effect. "By George, I'm glad that was only a dream. If that's the kind of a cad I've been, no wonder Helen felt all alone." He read her note, "If you need me, let me know." Helen, his own darling wife, only thirty-eight miles away. With all the vigor of youth he donned his clothes, locked the door of his home, jumped into his car and sped along, his heart beating with joyful anticipation. Time was still theirs; he would make amends. She never again should feel that he did not need her.
In less than one hour he was ushered into Lucille's home by Helen herself. "Why Ted, are you hurt? What is the matter?"
"Helen, sweetheart, I am cured! See, I am here sound and well. Forgive me, dearest, for my neglect, my indifference to your endearing charms."
He folded her in his strong arms and the frozen fountain of her heart melted in tears of happiness.
"Helen, we will take the trip together to visit with Beth, where we will stay until Beth is relieved of her homesickness, and in the meantime we will visit New York and other art centers, and from now on we will hear all the melodies of earth and heaven combined.
"Then we will come home and start the New Year all over. From now on we work shoulder to shoulder."
"O Ted, you can never know how happy I am. I did so fear you would not come."
"So, till the end when life's dim shadows fall, Love will be found the sweetest song of all."
Garden Flowers for Decoration Day
By Philena Fletcher Homer, State Conservation Chairman Of Utah Federation of Women's Clubs
A flower for memory on the loved ones grave, a mass of bloom covering the bare earth, the fragrance of spring carrying the substance of our remembrance to spirits in heaven, only by the use of flowers can we carry out the real spirit of Decoration Day.
Just so far as this floral offering comes from us, just so much of ourselves as we put into it, so much we give to the memory of the departed.
As the day for decorating the graves draws near we usually feel a keen sense of the depth and beauty of this rite, and a desire to secure as abundant a tribute as possible, but where can we secure them? Our own garden is sadly lacking in flowers for this season, those from our neighbors already promised. Then it is that we turn to the hillsides. The children are sent out to bring in anything that they can find. Handful after handful are torn up until the little band are laden with all that they can carry and then they struggle home carrying the flowers in their warm hands, until by the time they arrive the flowers are wilted beyond freshening.
The wild flowers are so frail, so unsuitable for cut flowers that there are only a few varieties which will stay fresh even if they are kept in water all of the time, and the great majority of those picked in this manner are a total waste and are thrown away.
If this indiscriminate picking could be carried on under the supervision of some one who knew and loved flowers, who knew what varieties to pick and which to leave, who would not pull up by the roots the last Indian Paint-brush for rods and rods, who would not take the last bloom for seeding of some delicate flower, which left to itself, would flourish in the shade of the sagebrush and make the bare hillside a thing of beauty and surprise for those who walked thereon, it would not be a matter for serious concern.
With the increase of population most of our favorite wild flowers are disappearing. It is only a question of a very short time before the loveliest of them will be found only in inaccessible places.
Our home gardens should furnish us with the flowers for Decoration Day. Every garden should include some of the lovely varieties which come into bloom at this time and which are so much more suitable for the purpose than their fragile wild sisters.
Peonies, snowballs, and the wonderful varieties of iris are in bloom at this time and they are so hardy, so easy to raise once a start has been secured that there is no excuse for our yards to be without them.