RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE beyond their years, but their spirits were dwarfed. I am impressed with the thought that I may be trained physically, I may exercise the muscles and bodily functions given to men, I may become an athlete, a pugilist, what I will, and my spirit be left wholly in the background; and yet I would not have you understand that the spirit is something which, like the conscience, may be carried around in one's pocket, to be brought forward for special Sunday or other emergency uses. I think there are those who do think of the conscience as a thing which may be sidetracked and brought out on Sunday. Elbert Hubbard said the truth when he expressed the idea that man should remember not only the Sabbath day to keep it holy, but the week days to keep them holy. Man's spirit or his spiritual powers are in, and shine through, his total functioning powers whenever he exercises himself toward the fuller development of all that is best and finest — in hith. I am convinced that the spirit of man permeates all of his other powers, and represents really the divinity that is in him. I was struck within the week with reading an address—if you share your material possessions, you divide them; if you share your spiritual possessions, you multiply them. If you divide a pie you have less than before you divided it, but if you share a smile you have more smile than when you started; if you share a story, or a good deed, if you share anything spiritual, your very sharing adds to it. Our question this afternoon is how may we develop that spirituality in man that it may take the lead over both the physical and the mental, that it may become the guide to man's life here in the world. Jesus Christ was the greatest personage born into the world because he caught most fully of the Spirit of his Father. Jesus was not trained academically, as some other men have been trained; we have never been told that he possessed great physical prowess, but he became the Savior of the world through manifesting a spirit beyond and unlike anything ever experienced by any other living soul. John reminds us that God is a spirit, and that they who worship him must worship him in spirit and in truth. When Elihu chided Job, he said, "But there is a spirit in man:'and the inspiration of the Almighty giveth them understanding." (Job 32:8.) I take it your problem here today is not what this spirit is, but rather how can we better promote it? I am assuming that it is your responsibility as mothers to see that the homes of the Latter-day Saints keep the spiritual fires burning. I know you are charged to look after want and need, delinquency and social problems, but the greatest mission that can rest in your hands is to see that in the homes of Latter-day Saints, children are reared to fear God and to cherish his Holy Spirit. If I were to give a recipe for promoting spirituality, I think