6. The First Great Sorrow?The most woeful event in the life of Adam and Eve was the first death in the family. They had not failed to teach their children and set them good examples. They had prayed for their children and had done all they could for the spiritual growth of their posterity; but in spite of it all they met an event that made a martyr and a devil. The first funeral was held under circumstances indescribably distressing. It was not the death of Abel that cut deepest as a sorrow blow, but the conduct of Cain and the other children who were accessory to his crime. Their fate was the chief source of sorrow. "And Adam and Eve, his wife, mourned before theLord because of Cain and his brethren.' (Pearl of Great Price; Moses v:27.)
7. The Birth of Seth?It appears that the death of Abel left the posterity of Adam without a person worthy of the holy Priesthood and we can imagine what hope, what prospective and immediate happiness accompanied the birth of the son who would "walk in the ways of the Lord", and officiate in the name of the Savior yet unborn. Happy day for the human family, the day when Seth was born.
8. The Great Home-Coming?Among the joy-giving events was the home-coming for blessings, when Adam blessed his posterity and they blessed him. "Three years previous to the death of Adam, he called Seth, Enos, Cainan, Mahalaleel, Jared, Enoch, and Methuselah, who were all High Priests, with the residue of his posterity who were righteous, into the valley of Adam-ondi-Ahman, and there bestowed upon them his last blessing. "And the Lord appeared unto them, and they rose up and blessed Adam, and called him Michael, the prince, the archangel. "And the Lord administered comfort unto Adam, and said unto him, I have set thee to be at the head, a multitude of nations shall come of thee, and thou art a prince over them forever." Doc. And Cov., 107:53-55.
B. Brief Biography OF ADAM. The archangel who led the host of heaven against Lucifer, (Rev. 12:7); the son of God, (Luke 3:38); the father of the human race, (Genesis); the contender with Satan over the body of Moses, (Jude. 9); a celestial-glory being, (Doc. And Cov., Commentary, p. 571); the one who is to lead the army against Satan in the final contest, (Doc. And'Cov., Sec. 88:111-116).
C. Summary of Doctrines TAUGHT. Free agency, rewards and punishments, atonement, faith, repentance, baptism, resurrection of the body, final judgment, preexistence and eternal progress. Ordinances performed?marriages, baptism, conferring of the Priesthood, giving of Patriarchal blessings, and possibly others.

D. Some Lessons To THE AGES. Obedience must be learned; 'Sacrifice brings forth the blessings of heaven;' God and one man are a majority. Prayer is a key for opening the heavens.
E. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS.
1. About what time is covered by the Adamic Dispensation?
2. To what extent did man become like unto God through the Fall?
3. What seems to have been the fulness of the gospel to Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden?
4. Why was the redemption part of the plan of salvation not given to them in the Garden?
5. Describe the baptism of Adam as recorded in the Pearl of Great Price.
6. Discuss the ways and means we have, which Adam and Eve did not have, for obeying the command still in force, "Teach these things freely to your children."
7. What does the last sentence of the Pearl of Great Price,, Moses v:23 indicate concerning the destiny of Cain and Satan?
8. Name some of the positions held by Adam of which we have record.
9. Mention the doctrines taught and the ordinances performed in the days of Adam.
10. How many patriarchs were present at the "home-coming" three years before the death of Adam? (See Doc. And Cov., Sec. 107:53).