[Vol12 | January 1925 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: Mother's Milk Clinic]
Mother's Milk Clinic Milk for babies is of necessity of great concern.

Civic centers and welfare organizations have been active for a corsiderable length of time dispensing milk for the care of babies; for, if babies are to be saved, they must have proper milk in proper quantities for their sustenance.

The Relief Society has exerted itself in a strenuous manner to have all mothers acquainted with this fact, and, wherever babies are being deprived of good milk in right quantities, it is urged that steps be taken to supply these babies with milk.

The Long Island College Hospital has gone a step farther than other centers interested in supplying milk for babies, in establishing a mother's milk clinic.

The mothers who supply the milk are, in the main, from poor families.

They are paid by the clinic, receiving from three to four dollars a day, but they are also appealed to in the name of the sick babies who need their help.

EDITORIAL 21 They understand that they are saving the lives of babies that would perish if the milk were not furnished.

From twelve to fourteen ounces is what the average baby consumes a day.

Where it is not possible to obtain this amount, four ounces of mother's milk, with other feeding of modified cow's milk, are sufficient to keep the infant alive.

Mother's milk, if thoroughly healthy, is always better for an infant than any other sort of milk.

The mother's milk is so rich that it is often necessary to dilute it with water, and not all babies require a large amount.

In order that there may be no danger of their own infants suffering from their generosity, babies are examined at stated periods by the physicians and records of their weight are kept.

As soon as the weight of a baby of a milk supplying mother fails to come up to standard, she is no longer permitted to give her milk to the clinic.

The mothers undergo periodic examinations and their milk is regularly tested in order that there can be no error in prescribing it for a sick child.

Perfect cleanliness is also drilled into the mother, and the milk is expressed under the supervision of the welfare representative.
