[Vol49 | January 1962 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Lesson | Title: Visiting | Author: Robinson]
[Visiting Teacher Messages — "I Will Be Merciful Unto You" Christine H. Robinson]
a  visiting  teacher;  later,  the  visiting  ceive  and  share  as  "heirs  to  the  king- 
teacher  may  become  a  president  or  dom  of  God." 
a  counselor  in  Relief  Society,  and  —V.  P.  C. 
Co/or  (^omes  to  inside  [Pages  of  the  uielief 
Society    IlLagazine 
The  Relief  Society  General  Board  is  happy  to  announce  that 
color  will  be  introduced  in  future  issues  of  The  Relief  Society 
Magazine  beginning  in  the  March  issue.  The  Webb  Offset  print- 
ing press  installed  by  the  Deseret  News  Press  makes  this  possible, 
but  necessitates  trimming  slightly  the  margin  width  of  the  Maga- 
zine. 
The  General  Board  is  also  pleased  to  announce  that  eight 
additional  pages  will  be  added  to  each  issue  of  the  Magazine, 
beginning  in  February.

TO  THE  FIELD 
x/L'ward  Subscriptions  ^Presented  in  .yxpru 
T^HE  award  subscriptions  presented  to  Magazine  representatives  for  hav- 
ing obtained  75  per  cent  or  more  subscriptions  to  the  Magazine  in  re- 
lation to  their  enrolled  Relief  Society  members,  are  not  awarded  until 
after  the  stake  Magazine  representatives'  annual  reports  have  been  audited. 
Award  cards  for  these  subscriptions  for  the  year  1961  will  be  mailed  to 
ward  and  stake  Magazine  representatives  about  April  1,  1962. 
ujouna    volumes  of  ig6i    1 1  iagazines 
"D  ELIEF  Society  officers  and  members  who  wish  to  have  their  1961  issues 
of  The  Reliei  Society  Magazine  bound  may  do  so  through  The 
Deseret  News  Press,  31  Richards  Street,  Salt  Lake  City  1,  Utah.  (See 
advertisement  in  this  issue  of  the  Magazine.)  The  cost  for  binding  the 
twelve  issues  in  a  permanent  cloth  binding  is  $2.75,  leather  $4.20,  includ- 
ing the  index.  A  limited  number  of  the  1961  Magazines  are  available  at 
the  offices  of  the  General  Board  of  Relief  Society,  76  North  Main  Street, 
Salt  Lake  City  11,  Utah,  for  $2  for  twelve  issues.  It  is  recommended  that 
wards  and  stakes  have  one  volume  of  the  1961  Magazines  bound  for  pres- 
ervation in  ward  and  stake  Relief  Society  libraries. 
cJhe  cJeacher 
Linnie  Fishei  Robinson 
I  spoke  his  word  — 
His  garden  grew; 
The  harvest  he  akeady  knew. 
Mine  were  the  feet  upon  the  hill. 
Messengers  of  his  sweet  will; 
I  held  the  light  that  others  see 
And  found  that  it  transfigured  me. 
Page  28