[Vol49 | January 1962 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Article | Title: Ten | Author: Knowles]
The bank has a vault full of ten-dollar bills, and you certainly can use it." That was true. 'Ten dollars would buy many things. It would buy the overshoes, or she could give Dr. Swanson something extra. He had taken care of Bert during a year's sickness and had waited so patiently for his money. He had four small children. He could use ten dollars, and the bank certainly did have a vault full of money. And then, suddenly, she was a little girl and mother was telling her: "Honesty above all, Sarah. Don't take as much as a straight pin that doesn't belong to you." "Oh, I couldn't keep it, May!" "Why not?" May asked "Because it's not mine, and keeping it would be stealing." She suddenly remembered how cross the teller had been. Maybe he had a reason, a very sick wife or a mortgage note to pay. "The teller would have to pay the money out of his own pocket." "Well, that's his tough luck," 21 May said. "He's paid to be ackeep it. I've got to take it back." "Suit yourself." May shrugged her shoulders. "But I can't wait. Dad's in the car and he's hungry and cross as a bear. But let me tell you, if I hadn't been such a softheaded fool." She went on and on telling the story May had told so many times before, how she had taken care of her sick parents and Ed and Jack and Shirley had just turned their backs on her, and so Fred had married another girl. Sarah looked after her neighbor as she walked out of the store, feeling sorry for her. May's father had told Sarah, "Fred was never in love with her. She just imagined it, and she has ruined her life thinking she missed her big chance." "Aren't we going with her?" Eddie asked. "No, son. The bank." Matt began to cry. Treat." "You'll get your treat, honey," she said. "I promise you." "Don't cry any more, Matt!" Eddie said sternly, but he, too, looked after May's plump figure. The five blocks back to the bank were cold and wet, the wind had risen and the icy pellets of snow peppered their faces, but they finally reached the bank. There was, thank goodness, no line to the middle-aged teller's window and she walked right up to him. She saw the name plate. "Thomas Eddrington." "Mr. Eddrington," she said, "when you cashed my check you made a mistake. You." "You should always count your I have to go back to "I want a 22 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1962 money before you leave the window." He shrugged his shoulders. She almost turned on her heel and stalked out. May was right. It was his headache, not hers. Her voice shook. "You gave me ten dollars too much." "Oh." His face turned red. He hastily counted through the bills in his till, compared the amount with figures on a sheet of paper. "Yes, 1 am ten short' Bat he didn't thank her. He almost snatched the bill from her hand. Sarah turned slowly and. Looked at her tired, patient little boys. "Now," she said with a brightness she did not feel, "now for that treat." "Td like a hamburger," Eddie said. "With French begged. In the Elite Lunch, Sarah ordered only root beer for herself, but she couldn't even drink that because she was suddenly nauseated, remembering the way the teller had acted. He could have said, "Thank you." Maybe May was right and she was a big fool. Fries!"" Matt HEN they arrived home it was almost dark. She fixed hot chocolate for the boys, read to them, and, finally, they were in bed. There was a knock at the door. It was May. She held out a pan of freshly baked cinnamon buns. "Thought you might enjoy them," she said. Sarah knew it was her way of apologizing for not waiting to drive them home. "Why, thank you," Sarah said. May asked, "Did the teller say, "Thank you, kind, honest lady?' " "No." Disappointment and anger washed over Sarah. "He acted as if it were my fault." "Was he a bald-headed man, sour looking?" May's eyes narrowed. "Thomas Eddrington?" "Why, yes, that was his name." May laughed. "And you dragged your little boys five blocks through a blizzard to give him ten dollars. Thomas Eddrington is a bachelor. He learned to play the stock market, how to invest his money. Why, he owns two buildings downtown. He owns an apartment." "Then why is he working in a bank?" "Because he loves money. He likes to handle it, count it, earn more, even that small salary. Besides he hasn't anything else to do." May added wryly, "He needs that ten dollars like he needs another row of toes! "Listen, Sarah," May said. "You're all alone now, and you've got two boys to support. You have to be a bit more clever, a bit more ruthless than the next guy, or you will get stepped on. Believe me, Sarah, I know. If only I'd told my brothers and sisters, 'Mother and Dad are your responsibility. I'm going to marry the man I love.'"' Her neighbor looked so miserable, so unhappy, that, even as upset as Sarah was, she said a little prayer for wisdom to show May that she had served a wonderful, useful life caring for her elderly parents. Tomorrow she must make her see that she was blessed, that she would be more blessed as time went on! "Stop being a sucker," May finished, a gentleness in her voice. After May had gone, Sarah leaned against the closed door and cried quietly, tears sliding down her cheeks. She cried because she FIRST PRIZE-WINNING STORY missed Bert's arms around her, because she was afraid of the responsibility of rearing her two sons, because the code by which she had been reared wasn't good any more. How could she teach them what was right when she didn't know what was right any more! But most of all she cried because she was disillusioned. She had done the right thing, the honest thing, but it had turned out to be a foolish thing. After awhile she stopped crying and went through the automatic movements of finishing the dishes. She heard Matt cough. She went into the bedroom to cover him up. Eddie was asleep, the covers thrown off. She covered him, kissed him lightly on the forehead. He had left his light on. She walked over to turn it off and saw his "Captain's Log," as he called it, open on the stand. BERT had known he was dying. He had spent a lot of time talking to the boys. He had told Eddie, "Being a man is a big job, but it doesn't happen all at once. Each day you learn something that helps you when you are a man." And he had given Eddie a large journal. "This is like a Captain's Log on a ship. Each night the captain writes what has happened during the day, and every night you must write down what you have learned during your day." Toward the end Bert had told Sarah, "I seem to talk in platitudes: 'Good is rewarded — As the twig is bent so the tree grows..." things like that. But there is much I want 23 to teach the boys, and there is so little time left. I don't know if 'm getting through to them." Sarah had never read Eddie's journal. She respected his privacy, but here it was open and her eyes skimmed lightly over what he had written. Systematically he had numbered his day's findings, writing in a careful, childish hand: 1. It takes a long time for the bus to come in winter. 2. New shoes make me feel taller. 3. The hamburger man liked cooking for us. He was happy we ate every bit. Sarah smiled fondly, surprised and pleased that Eddie had had the insight to know that the hamburger man enjoyed watching them eat his cooking. And then she read No. 4, and for a moment the words blurred through her tears. She brushed them away and read again, going sick inside thinking back to the moment when she had almost gone with May, unaware that all she did and said was being taken as gospel because she said and did them. "No. 4," Eddie had written, "If you have something that belongs to someone, take it back, even if you have to walk five blocks and it's snowing and your boys are crying. Because it doesn't belong to you and you have to give it back, even if somebody else says keep it, don't be a sucker." And he had added, capitalizing each word, "Honesty Is The Best Policy." "Amen," Sarah said softly. She closed the journal and walked out of the bedroom, her head held high as befitted one who had been tried and not been found wanting. Note: For a brief biographical sketch of Mary Ek Knowles, see page 37. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, January 1902 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN oF ALL NATIONS" GREETINGS TO RELIEF SOCIETY: With the dawn of this New Year's day I send greetings to the noble band of Relief Society workers throughout the world. Let forgiveness and charity be our bond. Let love and cleanliness and order rule in every home... Seek to bind your society with hoops of love and union. Let no harsh words pass our lips, nor yet any envious nor unkind thought entcr our hearts.... Be not carried away with vain social pleasures and foolish fashions of the hour. Make yourselves beautiful; be gentle and womanly.... I feel that I have been blest in my labors while ministering to the sick and unfortunate and have experienced much joy in Relief Society work, and I feel to promise similar blessings to those who lovingly and faithfully take up a part of this labor. —Bathsheba W. Smith President of the Relief Society in all the world. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE IN SALT LAKE STAKE: President M. I. Horne spoke upon the duties of the Relief Society members. Keep from evil thoughts or actions, pay tithing and attend our meetings.... Sister Annie T. Hyde felt Relief Society work is a sacred responsibility on every officer and member.... President B. W. Smith said she was very young when she became acquainted with the Prophet Joseph; that she had a strong testimony of his mission before she ever saw him and was always anxious to hear him speak.... She was at the organization of the Relief Society. Sister M. W. Wilcox was acquainted with the Prophet Joseph in Nauvoo, had often heard him speak. —Conference Report ONE WOMAN'S PRAYER Of all the gifts we may enjoy, there's one We most desire; the gift of Love! And then — So loving all Thou hast created — give us Power to help Thee save the souls of men! —Ixion THE NEW YEAR, 1902:... The pioneers who sought out this resting place were not only great in pioneering and colonizing, but they were also in the best and truest sense pioneers for the establishment of truth upon the earth; the builders of Temples and sanctuaries in which to worship God.... And now the children and grandchildren... Are in possession of the fullest freedom and liberty ever enjoyed by any body of people... And let us hope and pray that they may hold it so sacredly, and stand firmly for equity and truth, maintaining the rights bequeathed to them from the fathers.... —Editorial UTAH WRITERS:... One of our best prose and poetical writers is Augusta Joyce Crocheron.... She excels where thought is required and elegant expression.... Emily H. Woodmansee is one of the most gifted and inspirational poets of Utah. Helen Mar Whitney and Lulu Greene Richards are poets, and both are classed among the spiritual and inspirational writers....

—Utah Woman's Press Club Report Page 24 ISS EVA B. ADAMS, a longtime Congressional aide and a former educator, has been appointed Director of the United States Mint. Miss Adams is a native of Wonder, Nevada, and a former dean of women at the University of Nevada. Her new duties will include supervision of the making of coins, the storage of gold and silver bullion, and transportation of bullion. ISS TOBY ELLEN SAKS, of New York City, a nineteenyear-old college student, was recently awarded first prize in the junior division of the third Pablo Casals Cellist competition in Tel Aviv, Israel. Thirty-one cellists, representing many nations, competed, and over 50,000 people attended the concerts. YNN BURKE, who has almost three hundred medals for swimming, has retired from competition. She won two Olympic medals in Rome in 1960, setting a world record of 1:09.3 for the 100-meter backstroke. But she wants to finish college and live a normal life. During the eleven months before the Olympics, she swam 1,300 hours, practicing. ""As a swimmer, I'm an old lady at eighteen," she comments.