[Vol49 | January 1962 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: Irene | Author: Madsen]
Irene Cannon Lloyd Appointed to the General Board of the Relief Society Counselor Louise W. Madsen e. G IRENE CANNON LLOYD RENE Cannon Lloyd was appointed to the General Board of Relief Society on November 1, 1961. She brings to this high calling experience in leadership, devotion to the work of the Church, and a fervent testimony of the gospel. Any sketch of Sister Lloyd's life might well include the words of Nephi, "... Having been born of goodly parents, therefore I was taught somewhat in all the learning of my father." She is the daughter of George J. And Lucy Grant Cannon, and a granddaughter of President Heber J. Grant. Her mother is a former General President of the Young Women's Mutual ImprovePage 12 ment Association. In her parents' home she was truly taught the principles of the gospel and there obtained her deep and _ abiding testimony. Sister Lloyd married E. Thomas Lloyd in the Salt Lake Temple. They are the parents of four children, two boys, one of whom passed away in young manhood, and two daughters. 'Their son, Heber J., is at present serving in the ScotchIrish Mission as assistant to President Bernard Brockbank. 'The daughters are married, Lucy Jane to Captain Don F. Clark, Irene, to Henry Earl Huesser. 'There are seven grandchildren in the family. At the time of her call to the General Board she was serving as the president of Holladay Stake Relief Society, having previously served in this position for three and one-half years, and as a member of the stake board, as well as president of the Relief Society of the First and Fourteenth Wards. She is a talented musician and has used this talent unstintingly in service to the Church. Sister Lloyd is loved and respected by her associates who know her as a dedicated, enthusiastic, whole-hearted worker. She is a very spiritual woman, with a great love for the sisters of the Church who will be well served by her. Visard VV aaiitans Eliza KR. Snow Poem Contest HE Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the names of the three winners in the 1961 Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest. This contest was announced in the May 1961 issue of The Relief Society Magazine, and closed August 15, 1961. The first prize of forty dollars is awarded to Miranda Snow Walton, El Monte, California, for her poem "The Other Mother."

The second prize of thirty dollars is awarded to Bernice Burton Holmes, Arcata, California, for her poem "Rain Song." 'The third prize of twenty dollars is awarded to Eva Willes Wangsgaard, Ogden, Utah, for her poem "Recess — School for the Deaf." This poem contest has been conducted annually by the Relief Society General Board since 1924, in honor of Eliza R. Snow, second General President of Relief Society, a gifted poet and inspirational leader. The contest is open to all Latterday Saint women, and is designed to encourage poetry writing, and to increase appreciation for creative writing and the beauty and value of poetry. Prize-winning poems are the property of the General Board of Relief Society, and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission of the General Board. 'The General Board also reserves the right to publish any of the poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rate. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. Mrs. Walton appears for the third time as a winner in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest; Mrs. Holmes is a first-time winner; and Mrs. Wangsgaard has been a_ winner many times in the contest. There were 203 poems submitted in the 1961 contest. Entries were received from thirty-one States, with the largest number, in order, coming from Utah, California, Idaho, Arizona, Nevada, and Washington. Entries were also received from Canada, Australia, New Zealand, England, and the Cook Islands. The General Board congratulates the prize winners and expresses appreciation to all entrants for their interest in the contest. The General Board wishes also to thank the judges for their care and diligence in selecting the prize-winning poems. The services of the poetry committee of the General Board are very much appreciated. The prize-winning poems, together with photographs and brief highlights on the prize-winning contestants, are herewith published in this issue of the Magazine. Page 13 Page 14 First Prize Poem She Other Mother Muiranda Snow Walton No book of Holy Writ records her name; She lived and died unknown, although her son Became a sign for infamy and shame — Judas Iscariot, the evil one. She must have dreamed of him, as mothers do, The months she cherished him before his birth, And watched with pride and gladness as he grew To manhood's stature, great upon the earth. When she beheld him on that blessed day Follow the Holy Man of Galilee, How could she see the cross along his way, A premonition of the pain to be? But when his sin of avarice was paid Its wage of death, what anguish did she know! Surely her soul walked with him, hurt, afraid, Along the tortured trail they both must go. Fain would she have suffered in his stead, Taken his retribution as her own, But in a potter's field her son lay dead By his own hand. She drained her cup alone. She reaches down the corridor of years, She mourns with grieving mothers of all lands; Wherever hearts are broken, bathed with tears For children's sins, her tragic shadow stands. BERNICE BURTON HOLMES Second Prize Poem Rain Song Bernice Burton Holmes qin more than the snow. Ost when I go. P, and white; e night, I shall miss the t I shall miss the rain mM The snow is feathery, dee will talk to me all th hat I want to know. St when I go. T talk. But the rain The rain will tell w I shall miss the rain mo oiceless and does no Rain will whisper; rain will walk Upon the roof in dark of night; Rain will silver the evening light. I hear the silvery tongues of rain; They talk to me through the windowpane. Far off the thunder, dull, aloof; But rain dances crystal feet on the roof. E great white shawls of the snow; ain most when I go. Snow lS V I have missed th But I shall miss the tr Page 15 EVA WILLES WANGSGAARD Third Prize Poem Recess — School for the Deaf Eva Willes Wangsgaard Here children play denied the joy of sounds, Where thunder falls as silently as snow. They've never heard the milkman on his rounds, The clink of bottles, hurried steps tiptoe.