[Vol49 | January 1962 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Article | Title: Notes]
Notes TO THE FIELD Award Subscriptions Presented in April HE award subscriptions presented to Magazine representatives for having obtained 75 per cent or more subscriptions to the Magazine in relation to their enrolled Relief Society members, are not awarded until after the stake Magazine representatives' annual reports have been audited. Award cards for these subscriptions for the year 1961 will be mailed to ward and stake Magazine representatives about April 1, 1962. Bound Volumes of 1961 Magazines RELIEF Society officers and members who wish to have their 1961 issues of The Relief Society Magazine bound may do so through The Deseret News Press, 31 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. (See advertisement in this issue of the Magazine.) 'The cost for binding the twelve issues in a permanent cloth binding is $2.75, leather $4.20, including the index. A limited number of the 1961 Magazines are available at the offices of the General Board of Relief Society, 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City 11, Utah, for $2 for twelve issues. It is recommended that wards and stakes have one volume of the 1461 Magazines bound for preservation in ward and stake Relief Society libraries. She Seacher Linnie Fisher Robinson I spoke his word — His garden grew; The harvest he already knew. Mine were the feet upon the hill, Messengers of his sweet will; I held the light that others see And found that it transfigured me. Page 28 She Vlew March, of Dimes George P. Voss Vice-President for Public Relations HE 1962 New March of Dimes campaign opens January 2. Our immediate objective is to intensify the attack on birth defects, arthritis, and polio, and thus achieve, eventually, a higher health standard for all. New approach to patient aid — a network of Special Treatment Centers and Evaluation Clinics. Through this system we hope to bring highly skilled medical services to areas where they do not now exist. When crippling is an accomplished fact; when a child is paralyzed by a birth defect or polio, or his limbs are knotted by arthritis, he needs Total Medical Care. Research, education, dedication, these are the basic from research will be put to use. There can be no gtants for dedication, but your willingness to help, to share, sparks the efforts that are bringing new standards of care to the chronically disabled. Say "Yes" to the March of Dimes. Your dimes will do it again! Ham and Rice Casserole Margaret Kni pp 2 ¢. Diced, cooked ham % C. Chopped onion % Cc. Cooked rice 2 tbsp. Pimento 1 ¢. Cream of mushroom soup 1 c. Mushroom slices Can cream of celery soup (or 1 3-0z. Can) — optional -% c. Milk bread crumbs % Cc. Chopped green pepper tbsp. Butter Add pepper, onion, and mushrooms. Butter pan before filling and alternate layers of ham, rice, and soup mix. Finish with soup, and sprinkle with bread crumbs. Bake in 350° oven until bubbly, about 40 minutes, depending on depth of casserole or baking Sow the Field With Roses CHAPTER 1 Margery S. Stewart HE was lost. She was lost ~ somewhere in the Malibu mountains, in country new to her, on terrain inhospitable and bleak. Nina Karsh reined Dominick in, and the mare came to a dancing halt. Nina braced against the jolts and patted the damp mane. Dominick whinnied, pleading to be allowed the reins. Nina rubbed the arching, golden neck. "You are beautiful, Dominick, but you are not clever, and I do not think you know the way back any more than I do." Her voice was pushed against her by the silence. Nina took off her gloves and looked about. There are different ways of being lost, she thought. Within myself I have been lost — since Father died, since Laura and David moved to Milwaukee, and terribly lost since Danny went away. The thought of her nephew made him rise in the brush, a tall and vital mirage. A fox yipped in the underbrush, down in the canyon a heavier body crackled its way. Nina trembled. Who would know if anything happened to her? How vulnerable she was in her loneliness. She looked about. She had been so engrossed in her problems, so busy thinking of Danny and wondering what he was doing, and if he were happy at the medical school, that she must have come miles inland without noticing. She scanned the hills about her. If she could just get to the top of one and find Page 30 a view of the sea. But, with the sun gone down over the ridge, it was difficult to tell which way was west. The canyon was narrowing, the hillsides growing more steep. Perhaps she should go back the way she had come, but there had been cross paths here and there. She noticed in the hillside ahead a narrow, twisting path. She coaxed Dominick toward it. Dominick was not eager, but he was amiable. "I shall most certainly buy you," Nina promised, "and you and I will live on that absurd hilltop and make it beautiful for Danny when he comes home this summer. I shall learn to live there," she continued briskly. But at once all her defenses crumbled, as they had a habit of doing, and she found herself crying inwardly, Danny! Danny! Why don't you write? Are you so glad to be gone from me, then? Was it lonely and awful for you all the years of being brought up by an aunt instead of a mother and a father? I tried, oh, Danny, how I tried. The years seized at her, Danny on roller skates, then a bicycle, then the car. Danny with the Mother Goose books, and then the Tarzan books, and the science fiction, and suddenly nothing but the sober tomes of anatomy and science, Latin and German.... "I've decided to bea doctor... As my father was." Fiercely telling her this, as if she SOW THE FIELD WITH ROSES would snatch his desire from him. She hadn't wanted to do that at all. She had only wanted to help him achieve his desire. But Danny had gone alone into the world of medicine. He had closed the door between them. He wanted to walk the path by himself, which, after all, was only a normal desire. Only only it left her so suddenly empty. She had made Danny her whole life. The earth is treacherous by the sea, given to sudden slides. Dominick plunged on the slipping earth, rocks rattled past them. Nina held the reins lightly. What a dolt she had been to ride so far without thought of where she was going. Dominick climbed up the steep slope, picked her way over a barbed wire fence that had been cut and trampled. Nina sighed with relief as they left the edge of the gully, where the earth crumbled under the horse's hoofs. She took a deep breath and looked, about her, and saw that the sun was almost lost in the sea. It would be dark very soon even here on the hilltop. She saw, to her dismay, that she should have climbed the other side of the gully for the great chasm was now be- ' tween her and the coast. _ QHE lifted her head to the sudden sound of galloping hoofs. Dominick wheeled in the direction of the sound. Two men rode hard toward them. Against her will and _her quick pride, Nina felt a wave of fear. The men did not look I friendly. There were two of them. The taller of the pair reached her first. He was a great, gaunt rock of a man with a carved granite face and » extraordinary eyes. The eyes, piercing her own, were gray and chill. I 31 His hair, under the dusty black hat, was red, as were the hairs on the backs of his hands. Something familiar in the turn of his face caught Nina. "You are Tomas Novarro?" She looked from him to the wide sweep of land and mountain, gully and plain. "You own all of it. 1 was just reading." Novarro swung off his mount and knelt by the trampled fence. He picked up a strand and eyed her accusingly. "You did this?" "Of course not. I wouldn't know how to cut a fence." His aide galloped up and stared suspiciously at Nina. He clambered down from his horse and went to kneel beside Tomas Novarro. 'Together they examined the fence and the ground. "This is the third time, Mr. Novarro." "It was done by a crowd." 'Tomas Novarro stood up angrily. 'Look at their footprints. I think it was part of the rioters at the beach. Boys!" He turned to glare at Nina. "What business do you have up here, anyway? 'This is private land! Mine!" Nina smiled in what she hoped was a winning way. "I'm lost. I had to climb up from the gully to see where I was." "Where do you live?" he demanded. She was forced to confess, "I'm not terribly sure. I just moved into the house. The agent told me it was one of yours." The two men consulted each other wordlessly. 'The aide snapped his fingers. "Your grandmother's house." He looked coldly at Nina. "It is a small house," he stated, "with much Bougainvillaea, and a bell?" Nina sighed with relief. "Exactly." She took up the reins briskly, 32 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1962 "Now if you'll tell me what direction to take to get there." Tomas Novarro pointed down the gully. "Go back the way you came, when you reach the road, turn left. After awhile you will recognize your surroundings." "But, Mr. Novarro!" the smaller man was plainly disturbed, "your grandmother's house is only down this plateau a little way. She is right about getting lost in the gully." "Be still, Manuel." Novarro's voice was curt. "This will do two things. It will teach this lady that I meant what I said about trespassers, and it will keep another fence from being cut." Nina sat back on Dominick. "You are joking, Mr. Novarro." Novarro's eyes met hers levelly. "I have little sense of humor, but I do have a strong feeling for what is mine." HE said coldly, "Let the thought occur to you that it might be dangerous to send me back down the hill. I am not an experienced horsewoman, and I am even less equipped to spend the night in the canyon.' "You will be much wiser in the morning Miss." "Nina Karsh." "Ah!" Interest leaped into the cold eyes. "You are the nurse whose picture was in the paper." Nina wet her lips. All the brief confidence she had forced into herself vanished. "I am not a nurse...."' She had to take a breath. "I am an aide. The whole thing was greatly exaggerated." 'Now I know!" Manuel regarded her with warm interest. He lapsed into a furious Spanish. "It wasn't true... What the papers said." Nina leaned forward, the familiar helplessness engulfing her. "I wasn't out of my mind it was the nurse who was hysterical." Tomas regarded her with a calm, searching scrutiny. "But you did thrust her into the closet and lock the door. You did leave her there?" Nina felt ill. He phrased it so badly. I suppose it will go on as long as I live, she thought, people hearing the story and looking at me and wondering.... She said fiercely to herself, I will not try to defend myself again ever... No one be lieves me. "I left her there," she said aloud. She lifted her head. "I am or rather I was an aide. I was to take the child to surgery. When I went into the room the nurse, Miss Pincus, was trying to give her a shot I —the little girl fought it, and Miss Pincus became hysterical...." She looked at their faces, which revealed nothing. "We had had a long outbreak of flu. Miss Pincus had been on duty double shift, and was tired and upset. It wasn't really her fault. I meant to go back and unlock the door and... And help her. But it was too late. Miss Pincus said I... Had suddenly done this... They believed her." A thin smile pulled at the corner of Novarro's mouth, "And for this humanitarian gesture they discharged you?" "I had taken matters into my own hands. I had taken the child to the sun room to talk to her and quiet her before I took her upstairs. I was insubordinate... But the newspapers decided to "make something of it." Manuel listened intently. He said SOW THE FIELD WITH ROSES in English, "My cousin Donna says this lady is a painter, with many canvases and much colors." Nina moved uneasily on the restless back of Dominick. It was absurd the whole thing, sitting here, waiting for the tall man's judgment. Why didn't she go? She could move in the morning. But the mere thought made her limp. The little house, on its