[Vol49 | January 1962 | Sequence: 33 | Category: General Feature | Title: From Near and Far]
The Clark Branch was organized in May 1961 as a branch of the Southern Far East Mission. We are located about sixty-five miles north of Manila, at Clark Air Base.

Most of our members are military personnel and civilians working for the government here, but we do have six Filipino members, with prospects for several more in the near future. We are sure that the addition of The Relief Society Magazine to the San Fernando Library a local Filipino library will assist in this work and will be appreciated by the Filipino people. —Paul H. Sharp Branch President Clark Air Base Philippine Islands The Relief Society Magazine has brought me much happiness, and I enjoy thoroughly the messages contained within the covers of this wonderful and informative book.

Every day I am more and more thankful for the knowledge of the gospel of Jesus Christ. We as a family are thankful for the servants who came to us just three years ago with the message of the everlasting gospel. —Norma E. McGill Nitro, West Virginia My husband and I both are very much pleased with our beautiful Relief Society Magazine, especially the beautiful covers. —Mtrs. Peggy A. Nyman Kalamazoo, Michigan Several years ago, my daughter, Mary Ober, of Alhambra, California, sent her old Relief Society Magazines to a young Chinese Filipino schoolteacher, Aurora Ang Fan, in the Philippines.

These were greeted with such appreciation and acclaim that I am now dispatching mine, I hope, in time for Christmas.

They help the students to read English and do missionary work for the Church. —Mrs. G. A. McCrimmon Seal Beach, California Page 2 I want to thank you for the article on books and reading for young children ("The Precious Words, July 1961, by May C. Hammond). I consider Mrs.

Hammond to be my friend, and through her years of study and teaching, she has gleaned much knowledge about the field of children's literature. —Mary Lee Smoot Dallas, 'Texas I enjoy The Relief Society Magazine very much, especially the stories. I am a convert to the Church for nine years now, and a new citizen of this wonderful land of the Lord since the 8th of August. We have not had much education in schools, but life itself has educated us. I send you my love. —Mrs. Johanna Van de Coolwyk San Francisco, California Being a constant subscriber to The Relief Society Magazine for over twenty-eight years, I have learned to love the great spiritual uplift of the Magazine. 'The courses of study have been arranged by inspired men and women and answer the need for divine guidance in the home.

Helping to make ready for a Relief Society banquet, these words came to my mind, and they were used on individual placecards: If you would find life's enrichment, Strong faith in Jesus Chuist, Satisfaction for time well spent, A plan for your life's guide, Then at Relief Society keep a tryst — The door is open wide. —Evelyn S. Grant Centerville, Utah I would like to thank you for the wonderful Magazine. It gives me so much help and inspiration. I enjoy every department and look forward to each issue. —Bettina C. Graham Powell, Wyoming