Annual Report 1942
Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer
OBSERVANCE of the Relief Society centennial and increased participation in war services in addition to regular activities, characterized the work of the Relief Society during the year 1942. Adding new interest to the report and further means of more fully gauging the extent of Relief Society services are several new items of data collected for the first time in 1942, such as number of quilts made and number of funerals at which comfort and assistance was given, services which have characterized the work of the Society from its beginning, but which have never before been counted on a Church-wide basis. Unfortunately, complete records were not kept in all local Relief Societies of the newly required data, resulting in what is believed to be a considerable understatement of Relief Society services. Furthermore, because of limitations in shipping facilities incident to the war, current reports were not received from some of the distant missions in time for inclusion in the 1942 compilations. Therefore, figures in the annual report with respect to some of the long-time services and to all of the more recently instituted services relating to the Church Welfare Plan and to the war do not represent the full measure of the accomplishments. Nevertheless, the following statistical data give impressive evidence of the magnitude of the work accomplished. These facts are presented with full realization that they do not attempt to measure all the varied services of the Society to others, or the inestimable and intangible values to the members themselves which come from participation in Relief Society's two-fold program of education and service.
RELIEF SOCIETY CENTENNIAL
Constituting a part of this annual report is the comprehensive summary of the Church-wide celebration of the one-hundredth anniversary of the founding of the Society which was published in Thefor . This was followed by detailed reports of many of the local observances held in wards, stakes, branches, and missions which have since appeared in the Magazine as "Notes From the Field" in the issues of July, October, November, and December of 1942, and January, February, and March of 1943. The "Notes" in the issues for , and , relating to Relief Society choruses of Singing Mothers, should also be considered as a part of this series of centennial reports, as these choruses were extensively featured in centennial programs, concerts, pageants, tree plantings, and other services. The concluding memento of the centennial year was the publication in the fall of 1942 of "A Centenary of Relief Society," commemorating in picture and story the history and achievements of the Society during its first
Page 413

one hundred years. In the brief period between its publication and the end of the year, 10,298 copies of this handsome book had been purchased. Other personal centennial souvenirs, all of lasting value, had been bought in the following quantities: Relief Society membership pin, 6,677; plate depicting organization meeting, 1,452; and "A Legacy Relief Society Centennial Anthology of Verse," 972. In addition, the official centennial insignia in the form of seals or stickers had been ordered in the amount of 172,800 for attaching to programs of centennial observances, place cards, invitations, correspondence, et cetera. The annual reports showed a total of 874 centennial trees planted, of which 779 were permanently designated by means of a uniform bronze tree marker made available by the General Board.
WAR SERVICES
Relief Society organizations in the United States, constituting the majority of the 2,273 local Societies, undertook various activities related to the war effort during 1942, immediately after the United States became involved in war near the end of the preceding year. Most of the other countries where Relief Societies are located were already engaged in war, and the local Societies in those countries continued their efforts for the relief of war sufferers which were started as soon as their countries became involved.
Curtailment of Travel
The first important change in Relief Society work in the United States due to the war was made with respect to curtailment of travel and reduction of attendant personal expenses, in conformity with recommendations of the First Presidency issued January 17, 1942, months prior to the rationing of gasoline and the restriction of automobile tires for civilian use. In applying the recommendations of the First Presidency to the Relief Society, the General Board on February 19, 1942, announced curtailment of supervisory functions involving travel as follows: 1. Discontinued regular monthly stake and ward officers' union meetings; 2. Discontinued the annual stake Relief Society conferences to which representatives of the General Board are sent; 3. Curtailed to instances of special need visits by General Board members to stakes, and by stake board members to local Relief Societies; 4. Cancelled the semi-annual general
Theology and Work-and-Literature Testimony Business Social All Meetings Science
ANNUAL REPORT
four summer work meetings, reducing to 67 per cent the maximum percentage attainable if the topics were used in all work meetings. Tuesday is the traditional Relief Society meeting day, but because of transportation problems incident to the war, many local Societies have found it expedient to meet prior to or in connection with Sunday School. The 1942 annual report indicates that approximately half of the local Societies still meet on Tuesdays, and that the rest meet on other days. Some stakes have reported an increased attendance at the Sunday meetings but the need of careful planning in order to make the most of the more limited time available for Relief Society business and class work. Relief Society work meetings are of course held on a week day.
RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERSHIP
The number of Relief Society members declined during 1942 from 115,015 to 107,282, a loss of 7,733 or nearly 7 per cent. Two principal factors contributed to this decrease: First, in the preceding four-year campaign for 100,000 members, some women joined the organization who were not genuinely interested. Many of these have since become deeply interested and ardent workers but others have withdrawn their membership. The major factor in the membership decrease, however, is doubtless the changed conditions incident to the war. Thousands of families have moved from their home communities to areas adjacent to war industries. In many instances the women in these families have failed to identify themselves with the Relief Society in their new location, many

of them because they themselves have taken full-time employment. In view of these conditions, the number of members on record as of the end of 1942 is considered to be a wholesome indication of the genuine and continued interest of the women of the Church in their organization. Although a great many of them are unable to participate fully in the work of the Society under present conditions, they value and retain their membership.
Among those with special assignments are the stake and localrepresentatives who during 1942 increased the paid subscription list to a new high circulation of 56,500 as compared with 55,000 in the previous year. A total of 383 of these Magazine representatives earned a free award subscription

by procuring subscriptions equal to or exceeding 75 per cent of the Relief Society membership in their respective local Relief Societies. Even so, only slightly more than half (53 per cent) of Relief Society members subscribe for the Magazine. However, 17,207 or 74.5 per cent of the 23,097 officers and class leaders are subscribers.
FUNDS EXPENDED
Total disbursements of local, stake, and mission Relief Societies and the General Board during 1942 aggregated $462,342.11. Of this amount, $87,882.32 or 19 per cent was spent for charitable purposes, and $374,459.79 for general operating expenses and the Society's educational work. Included in charitable disbursements were amounts issued as direct relief to needy families, payments for health work, and other Relief Society welfare projects. In addition, com-- 
modities with an estimated value of $5,930.89 contributed to the Relief Society, including donations in kind received by visiting teachers were distributed to the needy bringing total charity disbursements to $93,813.21 and total expenditures to $468,273.00.
In health work, the Cottonwood Stake Relief Society continued operation of its modern maternity hospital in Salt Lake County and this and several other stakes continued to cooperate with local public health workers in the conduct of clinics for pre-school children, immunization programs, special health education work, and health work of other types.
Total net assets of the Society, including cash on hand, wheat trust funds, other invested funds, value of real estate and buildings, furniture and other properties were reported to be $1,348,603.41.
WAR WORK AND RELIEF SOCIETY
In Oakland Stake, California
With war conditions changing the habits and ways of living for so many of us, we of the Relief Society are attempting to tie much of our time in with this vital work, thus not only doing some of the necessary volunteer tasks of today, but also keeping women who wish to do war work happy at Relief Society.
For instance, we gave forty-eight woolen patchwork quilts to the Red Cross just recently. These quilts were made after our welfare assignment for 1942 had been completed and before we received our 1943 budget. We produced these quilts from scrap pieces left from our reconditioned articles at the stake welfare plant. The batts are of repossessed wool obtained from moth-eaten scraps and hopelessly worn sweaters and swim suits. The scraps were carded for us by a local factory until it was forced into war work. Now we send them to Logan, Utah, to be made into batts.
We were able to give the Red Cross six huge boxes of fur scraps to be fashioned into seamen's vests. These scraps were a by-product of our reconditioned clothing project.
We urge blood donors and surgical dressing workers to go in groups as Relief Society women rather than as individuals. This procedure actually gets more war work accomplished and at the same time stimulates Relief Society attendance and work.
In connection with the drive to put a family first-aid kit in every home, we are advising that each kit contain one or more units of homemade heat. Each unit is about one cubic inch in volume and will produce twenty to thirty minutes of heat equal to five candlepower, giving ample opportunity to boil instruments for sterilization or any other emergency activity. They cost only a fraction of a cent, each being made of old newspaper and paraffin. We have demonstrated the making and use of this heat in our various wards. Ruth S. Hilton, President Oakland Stake Relief Society.
ANNUAL REPORT

RELIEF SOCIETY
of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
SELECTED DATA from the ANNUAL FINANCIAL AND STATISTICAL REPORT Calendar year, 1942
Compiled in the office of the General Board from reports submitted by local wards and branches, by stakes and missions, and from the accounts of the General Board
Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer
DISBURSEMENTS

Wards and Branches
Stakes and Missions
General Board
Total
Cash Disbursements

Charitable Purposes
All Other Purposes
Total Cash
Merchandise

Value of Merchandise Distributed for Charitable Purposes

Total Disbursements
MEMBERS
Distribution of Members According to Assignment and "Subscriptions as of December 31, 1942

Members
Magazine Subscriptions

Number
Percent
Total
52.66
General Officers and Board Members

Stake Officers and Board Members
1,537
1,490
96.94
Mission Presidents and Officers

53.01
Ward and Branch Executive Officers
9,125
5,924
64.92
Other Officers
4,514
3,442
76.25
Class Leaders
7,732
6,240
80.70
Visiting Teachers

All Other Members
46.67
COMPARATIVE FINANCIAL AND STATISTICAL DATA

1942
1941
Change 1941 to 1942 

Number or Amount
Number or Amount
Number or Amount Percent
Organizations

Districts

Stakes

Missions

Local Organizations
2,202
2,482
Wards in Stakes
1,262
1,588
Branches in Missions

- 
| Meetings Held in Stakes and Mission Districts | | | | | Stake Board Meetings Held | 3,889 | | +3,889 | | Stake and Ward Officers' (Union) Meetings Held | 2,492 | | +2,492 | | Meetings Held in Lieu of Union Meetings | 1,397 | | +1,397 | | Relief Society Session at Quarterly Conference | 39 | | +39 | | Number Held | | | | | Part-time of Regular Session | | | |
| General Board Meetings Held | | | |
| Sewing Service at Relief Society Meetings | | | | | Average Number of Women Sewing Monthly | | | | | For Red Cross | | | | | For All Other Purposes | | | |
| Other Activities | | | | | Visits to Wards by Stake Officers | 6,258 | | +6,258 | | Visits to Sick and Homebound | 116,006 | | +116,006 | | Number of Days' Care of Sick | 15,083 | | +15,083 | | Number of Days' Volunteer Service | 14,396 | | +14,396 | | Number of Days' Paid by Society | 687 | | +687 | | Bodies Prepared for Burial | 882 | | +882 | | Complete Preparation | 252 | | +252 | | Dressing Only | | | | | Number of Funerals at which Relief Society Assisted | | | |
| Hours Service on Church Welfare Projects | | | | | By Relief Society Women Receiving Aid | | | | | By All Other Relief Society Women | | | |
| Number Centennial Trees Planted | 874 | | +874 |
| Relief Society Women Completing Red Cross Courses | | | | | Home Nursing | | | | | First Aid | | | | | Nutrition | | | | | All Other | | | |
 Increases designated by +, decreases by . No entries opposite those items for which data were collected for the first time in 1942. As shown by subscription records in the Magazine office.
ANNUAL REPORT

- 
Geographic Distribution of Relief Society Organizations and Members, December 31, 1942
Location
Stakes

Missions

Totals

Organizations
Members
Organizations
Members
Organizations
Members
United States
1,234

8,824
1,777
Alabama

Alaska

Arizona

3,795

3,996
Arkansas

California

7,413

8,341
Colorado

1,185
Connecticut

Delaware

District of Columbia

Florida

Georgia

Hawaii

Idaho

Illinois

Indiana

Iowa

Kansas

Kentucky

Louisiana

Maine

Maryland

Massachusetts

Michigan

Minnesota

Mississippi

Missouri

Montana

Nebraska

Nevada

1,627

1,627
New Jersey

New Mexico

New York

North Carolina

North Dakota

Ohio

Oklahoma

Oregon

1,079

1,404
Pennsylvania

Rhode Island

South Carolina

South Dakota

Tennessee

Texas

Utah

Vermont

Virginia

Washington

West Virginia

Wisconsin

Wyoming

2,429

2,573
Other Countries

1,916

7,367

9,283
Argentina

Australia

Austria

Brazil

Canada

1,749

2,019
Czechoslovakia

Denmark

France

Germany

2,230

2,230
Great Britain

Mexico

Netherlands

New Zealand

Norway

Palestine

Samoa

South Africa

Sweden

Switzerland

Tahiti

Tonga

Totals
1,276

2,273
Theology
Articles of Faith
Preview of Lessons for 1943-44
THE third and final year of the study of the Articles of Faith by James E. Talmage will be completed during the Relief Society educational year 1943-44. There will be eight lessons, the first to be presented the first Tuesday of , and the final lesson to be presented the first Tuesday of . The lessons follow the chapters in the book in consecutive order beginning with Chapter 17. The first five lessons deal with the Tenth Article of Faith, the sixth lesson with Article Eleven, the seventh with Article Twelve, and the eighth with Article Thirteen. The subjects by months are as follows:
* October The Dispersion of Israel
* November The Gathering of Israel
* December Zion
* January Christ's Reign on Earth
* February Regeneration and Resurrection
* March Religious Liberty and Toleration
* April Submission to Secular Authority
* May Practical Religion
The material to be printed each month in the Magazine will consist of three divisions: first, a condensation of each chapter; second, suggested class procedure for the teacher's use; and third, supplementary material quoted from statements of our latter-day prophets, the Presidents of the Church.
While it is believed that most Latter-day Saint families own copies of the Articles of Faith by Talmage, still in order that every class member may familiarize herself with the lesson, a condensation of each chapter with scriptural references will be printed in the Magazine each month as was done for the year 1942-43.
Reports frequently come to the General Board of the enjoyable theological lessons which are presented in the wards. It is the desire of the General Board, however, that not only should the lessons be enjoyable, but also that class members should actively participate in the lessons. One of the best ways to grow is by activity, and through class members participating in a lesson they will grow in knowledge. In order to suggest to the teacher various ways of procuring more active participation in her lesson, the second division of the Magazine material is provided. Under "Suggestions for Class Procedure," each
Page 429

month a different method will be suggested which is suited to the subject matter under discussion. These suggestions will be simple and any teacher who carefully chooses the class members to participate, with a view to their individual qualifications and needs, will find the suggestions helpful.
When class members are given assignments, it is desirable to allot them a definite length of time in which to present these assignments, impressing upon them the importance of staying within the time limit. Anyone who goes over her allotted time not only takes time away from someone else, but may interfere with the complete development of the lesson as planned by the class leader.
Class leaders are requested to urge class members to bring with them each theology day the standard works of the Church, and opportunity should be given class members to use these books. This will better familiarize them with the Scriptures, and will encourage home study and class participation. If desired, the class leader might check on the number of Church books brought to class each month by a show of hands, a checking list, or some other simple device.
The third division of the Maga-- 
zine material, the "Supplementary Material," containing quotations from the writings and statements of the Presidents of our Church, will enrich the lessons. No supplementary material is presented for the first lesson in October on "The Dispersion of Israel."
Class leaders are advised against controversial discussions on matters which have not been revealed; for example, the whereabouts of The Lost Tribes of Israel. Such discussions waste time and are fruitless.
This three-year study of what the Church believes our Thirteen Articles of Faith should be of great benefit to the women of the Church. It should increase their knowledge of the Gospel, enrich their lives, and strengthen their testimonies. We are thankful for the theological teachers in the Relief Society who realize that they can teach nothing except they live what they teach; who appreciate the great responsibility which is theirs to lead their sisters along the path of life and salvation; and who by prayer, by study, and the inspiration of the Lord teach their sisters and encourage them, by participation, to grow in the knowledge of the Gospel. May the Lord bless such teachers in their work, and may they magnify their callings.
Lesson 17 The Dispersion of Israel
(Tuesday, October 5, 1943)
(This is the first of five chapters which deal with Article 10)
Article 10 "We believe in the literal gathering of Israel and in the restoration of the Ten Tribes; * * *"

Lesson Aim: To show how Israel lost its identity as a nation and its freedom as a people for rejecting God, and how the Lord overruled its great losses for the good of the whole world.
CONDENSATION OF CHAPTER 17, ARTICLES OF FAITH
(This condensation is placed in the Magazine in the hope that it will result in more class members familiarizing themselves with the lesson.)
Israel
The combined name and title, Israel, in the original sense of the word, expressed the thought of one who had succeeded in his supplication before the Lord: "soldier of God," "one who contends with God," "a prince of God," are among the common English equivalents. The name first appears in sacred writ as a title conferred upon Jacob, when he prevailed in his determination to secure a blessing from his heavenly visitor in the wilderness, receiving the promise; "Thy name shall be called no more Jacob, but Israel: for as a prince hast thou power with God and with men, and hast prevailed." (Gen. 32:28) But the name of the individual patriarch grew into the designation of a people, including the twelve tribes, who delighted in the title Israelites, or children of Israel.
At the death of Solomon, probably about 975 B. C., the kingdom was divided. The tribe of Judah and part of the tribe of Benjamin accepted Rehoboam, son and successor of Solomon, as their king; while the rest of the people, usually spoken of as the Ten Tribes, revolted against Rehoboam, choosing Jeroboam as their king. The Ten Tribes under Jeroboam retained the title Kingdom of Israel, while Rehoboam and his subjects were known as the Kingdom of Judah.
The Dispersion of Israel Foretold
The dispersion of Israel was brought about by many stages, and

extended through millenniums. It was foreseen by the early prophets and the spiritual leaders of every generation.
Biblical Prophecies
Book of Mormon Predictions
The Fulfillment of These Prophecies
The sacred scriptures, as well as other writings for which the claim of direct inspiration is not asserted, record the literal fulfillment of proph-- 
ecy in the desolation of the house of Israel. The dividing of the nation into separate kingdoms of Judah and Israel led to the downfall of both. As the people grew in their disregard for the laws of their fathers, their enemies were permitted to triumph over them. The sad fate of the kingdom of Israel had some effect in partially awakening among the people of Judah a sense of their own impending doom.
Since the destruction of Jerusalem and the final disruption of the Jewish autonomy, the Jews have been wanderers upon the face of the earth, a people without a country, a nation without a home.
The Lost Tribes
The resurrected Christ, while ministering among the Nephites on this hemisphere, specifically mentioned "the other tribes of the house of Israel, whom the Father hath led away out of the land" (III Nephi 15:15); and again He referred to them as "other sheep which are not of this land, neither of the land of Jerusalem; neither in any parts of that land round about whither I have been to minister" (III Nephi 16:1). Christ announced a commandment of the Father that He should reveal Himself to them. The present location of the Lost Tribes has not been revealed.
Note: Since the present location of the Lost Tribes has not been revealed, and since there is a wealth of knowledge that has been revealed, it is advisable that no discussions nor speculations be entered into concerning the present location of the Lost Tribes.

SUGGESTIONS FOR CLASS PROCEDURE
Suggested Songs
Note: The class leader might confer with the ward president and the ward chorister and suggest that the following songs be used:
"Israel, Israel, God is Calling," Latter-day Saint Hymns, page 213.
"God Moves in a Mysterious Way," Relief Society Songs, page 21, Deseret Sunday School Songs, page 292, Latter-day Saint Hymns, No. 49.
"Scripture-finding" Committee
Select a few women to sit around a table in the front of the room, with Bibles, Books of Mormon, and Doctrine and Covenants. Let them find scriptural passages that may be called for in the development of the lesson and have them read these to the class as needed. Of course, every class member should be encouraged to bring her Bible, Book of Mormon, and Doctrine and Covenants and as the passages of scripture are read, she might turn to her own books and follow the reading. Time allotted for the lesson will not allow for too much scriptural reading; therefore, passages must be carefully selected.
Geography Report
Appoint one member to give a very short report of the geography embraced in the kingdoms of Judah and Israel, and of Assyria, Babylonia, and adjacent countries, to illustrate the captivities of Judah and Israel.
Note: Many Bibles have small maps. Some of the Seminaries, Sunday Schools, etc., have larger maps of the kingdoms referred to. A large map might be made of wrapping paper and colored crayons.
History Report
Appoint one member to give a 10-minute historical report covering the period from the division of the kingdom at the death of Solomon to the final dispersion of the children of Israel. (For this information see any good Bible dictionary.)
Chronological Table
Charts and tables are short cuts, and if used effectively they readily clarify facts, events, or historical happenings covering long periods of time. The chronological table of the Kings of Judah and Israel taken from A Concise Biblical Encyclopedia based on the Cambridge Companion to the Bible, will be helpful in the preparation of this lesson and is found in the back of the Bible used by most Latter-day Saint missionaries.
Pronunciation Guide
Ahijah a-hi'ja Cyrus si'rus Ephraim e'fra-im Euphrates u-fra'tez Hezekiah hez'e-ki'ah Israel is'ra-el Jeroboam jer-o-bo'am Josephus jo-se'fus Josiah jo-si'a Messianic mes'i-an'ik Nebuchadnezzar neb'u-kad-nez'ar Rehoboam re-ho-bo'am Sargon sar'gon, sar'go Sennacherib se-nak'er-ib Shalmanezer shal'man-e'zer Titus ti'tus Vespasian ves-pa'zhi-an Zedekiah zed-e-ki'a Zenos ze'nos
- 
Visiting Teachers
Messages to the Home
Sources of Strength
Preview of Lessons for 1943-44
ONE phase of the Relief Society teaching program is the individual teaching done in the homes by the visiting teachers. This type of teaching can be one of the most effective and impressive ways of teaching, and when properly done, brings excellent results. It follows the pattern of the Master Teacher of all. Jesus talked with individuals; "he sat with little groups of people engaged in quiet conversation, listening to their remarks, answering their questions, putting them perfectly at their ease, but at the right moment crystalizing the whole discussion into some great guiding truth."
The visiting teacher has the opportunity of reaching some individuals who do not come under the influence of the class leader who presents a formal lesson in a Relief Society meeting. Her teaching is very informal: she establishes a friendly relationship, finds a common meeting ground by telling a little story, relating an interesting incident, asking a pertinent question or even by requesting a favor that one would be pleased to grant. After this friendly relationship is established, she launches into a discussion of her message through a friendly exchange of ideas or opinions. The hostess is encouraged to talk, and due consideration is given to her ideas. If, for some reason, the hostess is not receptive to a discussion of the subject, a concise and well-formed statement of the message is more effective than a longer presentation. However, the needs of each home differ, and if the visiting teacher offers something that meets a need in the life of an individual, that person will usually listen. The fact that the visiting teacher recognizes the need in a home should not be obvious. If the visiting teacher is sincere, earnest, and prayerful in planning the delivery of the message, she will influence for good the lives of those she visits.
At the regular monthly teacher-training meeting the class leader should keep in mind the great objective of the message; and applying her knowledge of the underlying principles of good teaching, she should aid the visiting teachers in their presentation of these spiritual truths in the homes they will visit by a well-prepared discussion of the subject, and by suggestions on how to present this material when making their visits.
"Sources of Strength" has been chosen as the title for the messages to the home during the two years, 1943-44 and 1944-45. There is almost a universal call during this time of disillusionment, sacrifice, and loss of loved ones, for faith and fortitude to carry on valiantly. There is a constant seeking for sources of courage and strength. This course has been planned to supply this need and should be very acceptable in all Latter-day Saint homes.
For the ensuing Relief Society educational year 1943-44 the following topics are planned:
1. A Firm Belief in God As a Source of Strength. Nothing can give the feeling of peace and security and belief in the ultimate triumph of good as does implicit trust in our Heavenly Father. A firm belief in God gives one the courage to live a normal and happy life.
2. Ordered Living as a Source of Strength. A well-planned life avoids waste of time, inefficiency, and worry. It insures doing the essential things and aids one in maintaining high standards. It is a source of strength.
3. Freedom of Choice as a Source of Strength. Free agency is a basic principle in man's development. One grows strong by making right decisions for oneself.
4. The Development of Strength Through Work. Work contributes to health, wealth, and happiness. It is a panacea for many of the ills of life, a release from mental or emotional strain. There is joy in work well done and in the creations of one's own hands and brain.

5. Cooperation as a Source of Strength. An individual may accomplish very little by himself, but by combining his efforts with others he may become powerful and effective. He must learn to get along with others, to be unselfish, loyal, and considerate, and willing to work for the common good rather than for personal interest alone.
6. Companionship as a Source of Strength. Everyone needs companions who call forth the best in him, who impart hope, courage, and confidence. Good books may also be inspiring and strength-giving companions.
7. Loyalty as a Source of Strength. Loyalty is being true to one's best self, to one's ideals, to friends, to country, and to God. It is a primary element in every great and noble character.
8. Love as a Source of Strength. Love is a divine quality. It enriches and ennobles the individual. Love has great power. The Master asked that man love his enemies and do good to those who despitefully use him.
Lesson 1 A Firm Belief in God
(Tuesday, October 5, 1943)
INDIVIDUALS are made strong to endure and to overcome through a firm belief in God. This belief is an unfailing source of comfort and encouragement, a quality much needed in these times. This torn and troubled world needs the assurance that God lives and reigns On High, that He holds in His hands the destiny of men and nations, and in His own time and in His own way He will see that justice is meted out and that righteousness is rewarded. The world needs the assurance that He can hear and answer the appeals of His children; it needs that simple and beautiful faith which enables people to walk with perfect confidence through the mist and shadows of doubt and despair, trusting in the wisdom and goodness of God to lead where the light of reason does not

always penetrate; the faith which sees a divine purpose running through the stern and often bitter experiences of life; that sublime faith which sustained Job in the hour of his great affliction and enabled him to say: "Though He slay me, yet will I trust in Him."
This faith fortifies and strengthens one in the hour of need. It fills the heart with hope and the will with resolution. Through this faith people have achieved almost superhuman things. The Scriptures abound with examples of it, and history is full of proofs of its powers.
A Latter-day Saint boy in the United States Navy was asked a question of this import: "Isn't the Navy the most dangerous field of service?" He replied that he did not know, and said: "I've been taught by my mother that the Lord could hear my prayers as well on the water as He could on the land. If I lose my life, it will be in a good cause; and I've always been taught that the next world is a better one than this. So why should I worry?"
How to build up this confidence in the Creator is an important question which has a clear and definite answer. The Lord has declared through His prophets that "Those- 
who do the will of the Father shall know of the doctrines." This applies to the humblest as well as the mightiest. The only way one can have a perfect knowledge that God lives is through keeping His commandments. The good and great men of the past, the men who have achieved nobly for mankind, have been men with a firm faith in God. Such men were Washington, Lincoln, Joseph Smith and others, leaders of the Latter-day Saints.
Questions and Suggestions for Discussion
It is suggested that consideration be given to the best ways of presenting this message in the various homes.
1. How does a firm belief in God give strength to the individual?
2. Name activities that build faith.
3. Give examples from the Scriptures of the power of faith; from present-day experiences.
References
Smith, President Joseph F., Gospel Doctrine, p. 636-643
Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, compiled by Joseph Fielding Smith, edition 1938, pp. 56, 148
Home Topics
For optional use on Work-and-Business Day
Modern Housekeeping Methods
Preview of Lessons for 1943-44
THE home topics for optional use on work-and-business day during 1943-44 have been prepared under the general heading "Modern Housekeeping Methods." The objective of the course is to
bring to the attention of homemakers new and approved methods of housekeeping which will enable them to perform the tasks of housekeeping efficiently with minimum effort, thereby releasing as much time as possible for other activities demanded of homemakers in these abnormal times.
Women have been housekeepers since the days of the most primitive homes, but with the changes in the types of homes and improvements in their fittings and furnishings, housekeeping methods have changed and are changing. With homemakers, as with everyone else, it is a healthful attitude to keep an open mind and to appreciate the fact that even though one has followed a certain method of procedure for a long period of time, this does not necessarily indicate it is the best or the only successful method. It is true that there are some fundamentals in every line of endeavor that stand the test of time, but newer and better ways of housekeeping, which conform to changing conditions, are being devised. One should weigh the values of new and different methods, and if they are better than old methods, it is wise to adopt them.
The course "Modern Housekeeping Methods" is designed as a one-year course. Lessons prepared for the eight months, , through , will appear under the following titles:
1. Budgeting Time Objective: To gain a greater appreciation of the fact that system and order in the home will bring about efficiency with a minimum expenditure of time and energy.

2. Tools for Housekeeping Tasks Objective: To show the relationship of good tools, conveniently placed for use, and properly used, to efficiency in performing household tasks.
3. Floors and Floor Coverings Objective: To show that it is a mark of good housekeeping to preserve the appearance and prolong the usefulness of floors and floor coverings by giving each type the special care best suited to it.
4. Walls, Ceilings, and Woodwork Objective: To show that materials and finishes for walls, ceilings, and woodwork should be selected with an eye to ease of cleaning as well as to beauty, and to suggest special methods for cleaning various types of each.
5. Seasonal Housecleaning Objective: To show through a discussion of modern methods of housecleaning how this important task can be accomplished efficiently with a minimum of confusion and upset to normal living conditions in the home.
6. Windows and Window Fittings Objective: To determine the best methods of keeping windows and their fittings, blinds, curtains, screens, and awnings, clean and attractive.
7. Care of Furniture Finished Wood and Upholstered Objective: To learn the best methods of preserving the beauty and usefulness of furniture, since furniture "strikes the keynote of the home."
8. Dishwashing Objective: To discuss methods of washing dishes with a view to discovering how this monotonous household task can be done in a sanitary way with rapidity and thoroughness.
A perusal of the titles and objectives of these eight lessons will indicate the great interest which they

hold for women. They are all subjects dealing with the everyday experiences of a homemaker and will readily provoke worth-while discussion in the class. The formal presentation of the lesson should be short, followed by the discussion. The recommendations of the General Board stated in blue bulletin No. 21, issued November 11, 1941, is restated herewith: "It is suggested that the time for formal presentation of the topic not exceed 15 minutes, during which time sewing be suspended, and that presentation be followed by informal discussion and demonstration where desirable, simultaneously with the sewing or other handwork."
One of the best available sources of reference material is America's Housekeeping Book, compiled by New York Herald Tribune Home In-- 
stitute, 1941. This book was recommended for use in connection with Home Topics for 1942-43. Copies are still available at the Deseret Book Store, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City; regular price $2.50; price to Relief Society workers $2 postpaid.
Helpful bulletins and pamphlets may be obtained by writing to state agricultural colleges, county home demonstration agents, or to the Supt. of Documents, Washington, D. C. For example, the Utah State Agricultural College Extension Service has a bulletin entitled "Practical and Speedy Cleaning Methods" by Effie S. Barrows, which is very helpful. Theother periodicals, and the daily press frequently have worth-while suggestions. Advertisements in national magazines sometimes contain good suggestions.
Lesson 1 Home Management
For optional use on Tuesday, October 12, 1943
THESE lessons are written for homemakers. If some suggestions can be made which will increase the interest of homemakers in the management of their homes, helping them to understand their housekeeping problems more clearly and meet them more effectively, the lessons will have served their purpose.
It has often been stated that the greatness of America lies not in the granaries filled with corn and wheat, nor in the railroads stretching across the continent, nor in the mighty armies now growing stronger every day. The greatness of America lies in the American home and the family.
President Roosevelt said when we entered the war that we would have to work harder and longer than we had ever done before. This has certainly proved true. Today we have before us such serious problems as a war to win, an army to feed, and a peace to plan. In view of these problems each one of us wants to do the best possible job in adjusting her work to meet wartime conditions.
Can women plan for more efficiency in their homework in order to make time for added duties? Through better management and cooperation this is possible. If we use the head more and the feet less that is, if we better organize our work and time we will make the time for other things.
Let's use the Army as an example. Every member of a company has his own housekeeping responsibilities. A schedule is made and followed precisely. The time element is important in each job: making beds on time, cleaning up the rooms, putting away clothing, everything in ship-shape order and on time. No time nor motion is wasted in performing these everyday routine duties. If we would follow this example, our homes would be more efficient and restful, and we would have more time for activities outside the home and more leisure time. In planning our housework we should arrange for each member of the family to have a job and some definite responsibility in the home, whether it be planning the meals or washing the dishes. We should also make a work schedule and assign each household task to a particular day and even the hour of the day when it could be done most quickly and conveniently. The benefits of such a schedule are many: 1. It relieves the uncertainty and nervous strain of never knowing when you'll get things done. 2. It allows more things to be done in a given length of time. 3. It allows planning for leisure pleasures with the comfortable feeling that your housework need not be neglected. 4. It allows planning the work of a parttime helper so that endless repetition of orders is avoided and better help for the money spent is obtained. When a schedule has been followed 439 until it becomes second nature, you run your house it does not run you. How shall we go about making a schedule? _ First write down the jobs that need to be done every day. Next write down the tasks that need to be done on a particular day of the week. Then make a simple weekly chart and assign each job to the day and hour when it can be done most conveniently. (See America's Housekeeping Book, pp. 10, 12.) No two homes are exactly alike, and different conditions affect the work schedule. If there is a small baby, the household schedule must be built around the baby's schedule. Very often little time is left for the countless household tasks, especially if no help is employed; but after all, baby's well-being is of far more importance than any phase of housekeeping, and if some housework has to be neglected or done less thoroughly, this state of affairs should be accepted philosophically. Young children, children of school age, also make it necessary for special adjustments in work schedules. After trying to follow a schedule for a week or more, it is time to check up. Ifa day seems crowded so that it is difficult to do all the work scheduled for that day, there may be a remedy. Here are a few questions that may get to the root of the trouble: 1. Have you tried to do too much in one day? If so, move one or two tasks to less crowded days. 2. Do you know the one best way to accomplish a given task? 3. Do you collect all the material, ingredients, or pieces of equipment that you need for a specific job before you begin? (Example: baking bread, 440 making a cake.) time and steps. 4. Are your housekeeping tools and materials efficient, easy to use, and in good condition? Poor tools slow down work. For example: (a) Is your sink too high or too low for comfort? (b) Is your cleaning equipment right for the jobs to be done? (c) Is your vacuum cleaner or carpet sweeper kept emptied and ready for use? (d) Are your knives sharp? Very important. ) (e) Is the place where the job is to be done, arranged conveniently? (f) Is your kitchen equipment stored at the place where it is used? (g) Is the lighting adequate for the work? (This is very important. ) Are beds set away from the wall so you can make them easily? (i) Is your cleaning closet orderly and well arranged? Can you get things in and out easily? (j) Do you take too long to do a specific job? (Keep a record of the time it takes to do ordinary jobs like dishwashing and making beds.) (k) Are your standards of housekeeping too high? This always saves (This is- Questions and Suggestions for Discussion 1. Enumerate the values accruing to the housewife from following a work schedule. 2. Relate ways of performing some specific everyday household task that will save time and energy. (Perhaps a demonstration might be arranged.) 3. When would you consider housekeeping standards too high? 4. How may kitchen equipment, such as tables, stoves, sink, refrigerator, etc., be best grouped to save the time and energy of the housewife? (See, "Highlights In Kitchen Planning," Lalene H. Hart, p. 676.) 5. What devices may be employed to adjust working surfaces that are too high? Too low? (See, "Highlights In Kitchen Planning," Lalene H. Hart, p. 679.) 6. Suggest different ways of procuring family cooperation in doing household tasks. Reference America's Housekeeping Book, Chapter I, p- 9 Literature The Bible as Literature Preview of Lessons for 1943-44 PRIME purpose of this course is to give those who follow it an encouraging opportunity to get closer to the Bible. Most folk look upon this Book of Books and rightly so as a sacred volume. "So far as it is translated correctly," it is the word of God. It presents His word, however, in varied impressive forms. Sometimes the divine message is given through straight historical record; at times it comes with directness through commandments; again its spirit is radiated through a beautiful lyric, an ode, a rhapsody; often it is portrayed through an intriguing story LESSON DEPARTMENT or drama or ballad; at other times sublime truths are presented through essays and philosophical discussion; or they may flame forth in divine prophecy. All these forms of literature are to be found in the Bible. First, we shall discover them deftly inwoven in the historical books that portray the story of the chosen people. Literature here is used to illuminate and humanize history. Second, included in the great Book of Books are various books, each devoted to a distinctive type of literature. Thus we have wise sayings in the Proverbs; the songs of Israel in the Psalms; a challenging drama of righteousness in Job; the vision of Zion redeemed in Isaiah. Yet with all this variety of expression, the widely different books and selections that make our Bible are each and all in consonance and harmony with the spirit of the whole. This remarkable unity that magnetizes the varied parts is due to the source of its inspiration. 'Through all the centuries that this sacred volume was being assembled, taught, and finally translated into the tongues of the common folk for their guidance and uplift, one thought was dominant scribes, rabbis, early Christian fathers and _ translators alike were intent on preserving the word of God. And preserve it they did with remarkable fidelity. 'That was their master service for mankind. In this devotion to a great central ideal, they would seem to have given little heed to literary forms in which the sacred writ was expressed. God's word and will Gospel truth with these inspired leaders was of first concern. Evidence of this truth comes in the form of the Bible as 441 given to us by the translators. Our King James Translation, for example, is cast into a series of chapters, which in turn are broken up into socalled verses. These bits of the sacred writ were intended, we are told, as "texts for comment" or for sermons. Not until years after these first translations were made did students of the Bible become concerned with the literary forms of the rare poems, stories, dramas, orations, etc., in the succession of chapters. More recently, under the inspirational leadership of such leaders as the great English scholar, Dr. Richard Green Moulton, who gave us the Modern Reader's Bible, this Biblical literature has been lifted into the clear by being recast into forms that reveal its artistry and enhance its living messages of truth. Studied in the light of the Gospel, this literature will clarify and enrich our knowledge of the Scriptures. It will bring us closer to the inner spirit and true meaning of the Bible. Such is the intent of the lessons of this course. Plainly, it is not possible in a threeyear course of study of Bible literature, such as is being taught in Relief Society, to do much more than open up this rich field of literature. Our purpose, however, will be well served, if those who participate in this work are lured into reading the Bible with new interest and appreciation, valuing it more fully as a literary masterpiece and as the sacred record of the word of God to mankind. An even richer result will come if our mothers respond to the course by sharing its gems of literature through reading them aloud to their children. Herein is a means of sweet companionship with things divine. 'The outline of the eight study units planned for the educational year 1943-44 follows: 1. The Bible Story Concrete study of typical stories from the Bible from a literary viewpoint; their artistry as revealed in plot, characters, local color, language, music and other qualities that mark great literature. Application through story-reading and _ story-telling activities. 2. The Bible Epic Bible stories may be studied individually or in sequence. Frequently, several of these stories, taken together, portray some period of history, such as the stories of the Creation, the Deluge, the Patriarchs, the Exodus. A central purpose of this study is to present such an epic that centering in David the Warrior, King of Israel. Individual stories woven into this epic will be given added interest in light of the whole. 3. The Bible Lyric Study of Bible songs in their storysettings. An inlook into the characteristics of Biblical lyric verse. Its use in expressing heart-throbs of history and rare spiritual emotion. Application through finding and reciting or singing Biblical lyrics. 4. The Bible Ballad Comparative study of prose narrative and poetic story-telling as illustrated in Judges, Chapters IV and V depicting the story and the song of Deborah and her leadership against the enemies of Israel. Application through reading of other Bible narratives enhanced with poetic expression. 5. Bible Wisdom Study of wise sayings to be found in Proverbs and other bits of Biblical wisdom. Some of the brief Biblical essays may be added here as well as excerpts from Ecclesiastes. Application to be made through the choosing and reciting of favorite proverbs and other quotations. 6. A Bible Drama Story of the Book of Job briefly sketched. Its basic message examined. Study of the struggle of Job through testing to the divinely approved outcome. Application through finding some of the literary gems of wisdom voiced by Job in the drama. 7. Bible Oratory Study of the Farewell of Moses as depicted in Deuteronomy, with special attention to the master oration on The Blessing and the Curse its historical and spiritual implications. Application through finding the choice expressions of literature portraying the spirit and message of a great leader to a people delivered from bondage. 8. Bible Prophecy Study of some of the choice parts of Isaiah, with especial attention to the Messianic Hope, and his Rhapsody of Zion Redeemed. Application through reading selections from this "sunburst of literature," and through finding echoes of the Master Book in our own songs and anthems inspired by Isaiah. Lesson Helps Text: King James Translation of the Bible. Each member should possess a copy of this translation of convenient size and read- -able print, for home and class use. Special References: Moulton, Dr. R. G., Modern Reader's Bible Bates, Ernest S., The Bible Designed to Be Read as Living Literature These books are suitable for special help on the. Various lessons. One or the other of these volumes is already in the class library of many Relief Societies. These books will be found useful particularly in presenting stories, poems, and other forms of Bible literature in their varied literary forms. Both of these books are available at the