She Glory of Light Fredrika Clinch T' was the evening of the 15th of March. I stood gazing at the mist that hung on the mountain peaks. I watched the sunset color spread throughout the sky. The storm clouds that had started to gather were full of color. The light gradually faded into darkness. The wind started to blow, and the trees trembled in the darkness and the lightning danced across the sky, followed by the sound of thunder. 'There came one loud clap of thunder and the rain poured. 'The howling wind screamed in the darkness to the tune of the rain that beat against the house. It seemed as if the world was made up of thunder, lightning, wind, and darkness. To calm my nerves, I decided to read, and then the lights went out. Now I was in complete darkness without electricity to ease the darkness. Hearing the storm rage, fear moved in. I could not move freely in the house because I kept stumbling into things. I crept into bed, but couldn't sleep. I lay there tense, staring into the darkness. 'The longer I lay there the more fear crept in. Then I remembered I had forgotten to pray. I got out of bed and knelt to pray. After praying for God to give me strength so I would no longer fear the storm, I quoted, "I will fear no evil: for thou art with mie, For a long time afterward it seemed as if the dark fury of the elements would never pass, but I had no fear. 'Then there came the calm. The wind subsided and the rain stopped, and there was a peaceful stillness. The blackness of the night started to fade into daylight. When I pulled up the shade, I saw the sky filled with delicate colors from the rising sun. The leaves that had whipped about in last mght's storm rustled gently in the morning brecze. 'The birds were singing a welcome to the rising sun. I also rejoiced in the returning of the light and for a peaceful world after last night's storm. I don't know how long | stood there, taking in the beauty and peace before I sank on my knees and bowed my head and thanked God for the wonderful day... "I will fear no evil: for thou art with me." Yulia Lottie Bach s Hobbies Five (Decorative and useful ULIA Lottie Brim Bach, Oakley, Idaho, makcs quilts from her own designs and does the quilting herself. The patchwork quilt (at the left) is Mrs. Bach's original design and is called "The Sunburst." Another of her designs (not shown in the picture ) is called "The Road to the World's Fair." One of her most unique pieces of handwork is a floral map of the United States (upper right). The map is made of satecn, and the flowers are embroidered in full color to represent each State of the Union. Mrs. Bach has made many decorative pillows, some of them in her own designs. Also, she makes braided and hooked rugs. Crochets, and embroiders. She is a dev oted student of the scriptures and commits many passages to memory. She has memorized many poems and readings, and has a rich and varied repertoire of recitations. Mrs. Bach is mother to six, grandmother to six, and great-grandmother to twelve. She is active in the Church and attends Sunday School regularly and goes to Relief Socicty meetings whenever transportation is available for her attendance. She has a "large and lovely" circle of dear friends whom she remembers with gifts of handwork. Mare,