Seiguee_ lhe Place of \WWoman in the Gospel Plan THE EMINENCE OF WOMAN Lesson 2 — Full Equality in the Gospel Plan "Woman has been him" (Elder John A. Widtsoe). Placed by the side of man — not behind him — not in front of Elder Ariel S. Ballif For Tuesday, November 28, 1961 Objective: 'To discover the true significance of unity in the marriage covenant. PROM the review of the scriptures in Lesson 1, we have observed that in the plan of creation God gave to woman a place of exceptional eminence. The importance of the responsibility given her comple- LESSON DEPARTMENT ments the assignment given to man. Together, and only together, can the full realization of the destiny of the human family be achieved. Therefore, equality referred to in the above title has important implications and needs to be clearly defined. Equality means the character or condition of being equal. Equal is defined as exactly the same in measure, quantity, number, or degree. The definition in Webster's dictionary goes on to say: "like in value, quality, status or position; evenly balanced or proportioned; having competent power, abilities, or means. Equal in Opportunities, Rights, and Privileges 1. Man Is the Head of the Family by Priesthood Designation. In our previous discussion we found that God gave the Priesthood to Adam, thus designating him as his mouthpiece upon the earth. At the same time, Adam's companion, Eve, was designated as the mother of men. This set up a balance and a division of responsibility which provided a base for sound family organization. 'The Priesthood, operating on the principles of love and sympathetic understanding, has for its purpose the caring for the temporal, intellectual, and spiritual welfare of each member of the familv. The mother, because of her strategic position, is the moving force in the accomplishment of this purpose. Man has held the position of head of the family throughout the ages. Much of the time he has not justified this position in terms of respect, consideration, and appreciation for his companion and the children in his family. In fact, at times he has 361 exercised unrighteous dominion over them. In the gospel plan the Priesthood bearer has the responsibility of being the head of the family. The blessings and respect that this position merits can be justified only as the man honors his Priesthood and recognizes the value and significance of his co-partner and of each member of his family by providing them with full opportunity for growth and development. This is the equality referred to; this is the blessing of the gospel plan. 2. Woman Has a Major Role in the Home. In order for the man to realize full promise of success in his administration of the home, it is necessary to place a vital responsibility in the hands of his wife. She plays a major role in the home, having under her care and vigilance each member. While babies are not clay and cannot be molded as such, yet they are most susceptible to the stimulation they receive in association with others. Mother's constant contact in feeding, comforting, cleaning, training, and encouraging each youngster, places the mark of her influence and character upon the child throughout its life. This stimulation is not only on the physical level, but mental and spiritual stimulations come from every act, every decision, and almost every thought that takes place in the home. The family's success necessitates team action, unity of purpose, and a full recognition of the value and quality of both mother and father. Thev can be equal in the influence they exert on their children, if they 562 recognize the importance of each other's position. The point to be noted is the evenly balanced status of father and mother. 3. Blessings of the Priesthood Are Joint Values The equality referred to above has no thought of competitive position of mother and father, but rather an emphasis upon the effectiveness of their combined efforts. In everything they do there can be beneficial reflections to each other and to the family members. Where the man is effective in his calling in the Priesthood he brings into the home the light of revelation and inspiration for solving problems for individual members and for the family as a unit. 'This blessing is shared by the mother whose prime interest is the welfare of the children and the success of this joint venture with her husband. Whatever is done by Priesthood authority in the home must reflect to the benefit and elevation of the father and mother. Dr. John A. Widtsoe makes the following observation: Woman does not hold the Priesthood, but she is a partaker of the blessings of the Priesthood. That is, the man holds the Priesthood, performs the priestly duties of the Church, but his wife enjoys with him every other privilege derived from the possession of the Priesthood. 'This is made clear, as an example, in the Temple service of the Church. 'The ordinances of the Temple are distinctly of Priesthood character, yet women have access to all of them, and the highest blessings of the Temple are conferred only upon a man and his wife jointly (Joun A. WiptsoE, Program of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, page 79). In the function of his priestly office in the Church, in whatever capacity, the wife enjoys the blessings of a successful partner in the work of the Lord. These blessings come to her from her help and encouragement given to her husband in the fulfillment of his responsibility. In failure or success she shares in his calling. The work of the Priesthood is to overcome evil, stimulate rghteousness, and establish the kingdom of God upon the earth. So in this basic unit, the family, they (the man and the woman) are developing a substantial element in the building of the kingdom. Family Organization 1. Head of the House The "head of the house," implies many responsibilities, among them the providing of the necessities of life, comforts, love and consideration, wisdom, counsel, and _ leadership. Even with the finite mind of man, it is possible for us to observe the infinite wisdom of God in setting up the family pattern. The mother love is nearest to the love of God of any expression upon this earth. This was so designed to protect and secure the spirit children of our Father, for each one is precious in his sight. The true love of man for his wife should reach its greatest heights in the bearing of his children. His duty and expression of love come in providing security, protection, and freedom from fears for his family. In the scriptures we read of the man caring for his flocks, fishing, and tilling the soil. This was true in Adam's time and throughout the testaments. In society, generally, it has been accepted that the man ls LESSON DEPARTMENT the provider. God made man physically strong so that he could earn his bread by the sweat of his brow. In modern revelation, Doctrine and Covenants, Sec. 83:2, 4: Women have claim on their husbands for their maintenance, until their husbands are taken; and if they are not found transgressors they shall have fellowship in the church.... All children have claim upon their parents for their maintenance until they are of age. Parents are not only responsible for providing "bread," but The Doctrine and Covenants, Section 68:25- 28, tells us they must teach the children, before they arrive at eight years of age, to be able to understand the meaning of repentance, to have faith in Christ, and to know the purpose of baptism, or the sins of the children will be upon the heads of the parents. The foundation of the Priesthood power or authority is love. Love demands thoughtful consideration of others, plus the responsibility for their well-being and individual expression. The head of the family, then, in our society, must be able to justify his calling in the Priesthood by his thoughtful and loving direction, and through counsel and patience with each member of the family. It is again repeated that his measure of success in his calling, both as a father and as an elder in Israel, is largely in the success he attains with the members of his own family. 2. Woman.— Childbearer and Rearer of Children, Managing Director of the Household. In some cultures of the world women have had to do heavy manual work. There are places where women feel that to be equal with 563 men they must participate in the full program of men's activity. In such a society the bearing of children is of secondary importance. As soon as the baby is born it is placed in a nursery where things are clean and free from destructive bacteria. Proper food, sunshine, and warm clothing are provided. The mother then is free to return to her industrial job; but the main ingredients for human development, character building, and the proper stimulation of personality are lost. That is, mother love and care are not present. No amount of technical equipment or trained skill can successfully substitute for the mother love which is not constantly present through the years of growing up. Woman's great mission and responsibility have been and continue to be the bearing of children and providing the little bundles of possibilities with the continual care, training, and stimulation that only a mother's love can supply. It is true that mother has much to do physically in operating her home. But in making her home, there is a different relationship for her with her family, a different orientation than when working as a man's equal on the industrial production line. The very nature of her physical make-up puts her in a different catesory than man. Her biological abilities to nurture and give birth to children, place her in a position of distinctive difference from, and yet dependence upon, her mate. 'This same ability gives her a unique position in the family. Yet neither the man nor the woman is complete without the other. The mother becomes the managing director of the home, not by 564 inheritance nor by custom, but by sheer necessity. Rearing a family involves selection and preparation of food; the adequate care of the living quarters, and the direction and regulation of the goings and comings of the members in the houschold. Mother must administer wisely the income of the home to make it cover the daily expenses as well as provide a reserve to meet the inevitable emergencies. She is, in the truest sense, the managing director of the successful home. 3. Partnership Once again we must repeat the important idea that the home and family are a joint venture. Neither father nor mother detracts from the importance of the other. They are not contesting nor vying for status higher than the other. They work together with talents, qualifications, and abilities that complement each other. The Family, a Co-operative Enterprise We have been emphasizing the fact that the family is the result of the united efforts of people who are equal in the sense of being "evenly balanced or proportioned; having competent powers, abilities or means." Surely the varied responsibilities of the father and mother evidence again the wisdom of God. 1. Co-Partners With God in Child Creation There is a divinely ordained division of labor and responsibility in maintaining, stimulating, and protecting the family unit. God, himself, is a co-partner in the family unit in that he created the spirits of the children of men. He entrusted them to the earthly parents for the growth and development of earth life. He wants these children back in his kingdom, to dwell in his presence. They are all precious in his sight. 'Therefore, he has given every assistance possible to set up an effective family unit, in order that each child mav have the needed help for its development and direction back to his presence. In this arrangement the obligation and _ responsibility of father and mother never end, short of the accomplishment of the Lord's plan. Summary As a summary of the lessons on the "Eminence of Woman," may we point out that, like man, woman is a creation of God. She was given as a helpmate of man in a partnership responsibility for subduing and populating the earth. She is the mother of men; the mother of the human family. Only with her can man obtain the highest exaltation in the celestial kingdom. 'Truly, she is the leading lady in the drama of life. She holds equal responsibilities for the accomplishment of the purpose of life "to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." Woman's eminence in the program of the Church cannot be questioned. She is not a silent partner, not a puppet, but an equal partner with equal responsibilities for the success of the program. Thoughts for Discussion 1. What is the difference between the terms equal and equality? 2. Does equality in marriage imply equal responsibilities for the success or failure of the marriage? 3. In what ways are the blessings of the Priesthood of joint value? LESSON DEPARTMENT 4. How can love, respect, honor, and obedience be given equally to father and mother by the children? 5. Is a home with children a sufficient challenge in achievement to justify the dedication of the mother's life to rearing her children? Give evidence to support your answer. 6. What evidence can you give of the importance of unity in the success of family life? References: Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 83 and 68; Priesthood and Church Government, John A. Widtsoe, Chapter 7. Ee