Mention Relief Society Magazine
DECEMBER No. 12
CONTENTS
Page

Madonna And Child Frontispiece
To Our Beloved Sisters Relief Society Presidency 601
Gold, Frankincense and Myrrh Hazel S. Washburn 603
At the Relief Society Conference at Honolulu 604
A Trip to Hawaii Amy Brown Lyman 605
The Discontinued Custom Annie Pike Greenwood 615
Sensible Christmas Giving Ramona Wilcox Cannon 619
Editorial—A Greeting From Across the Sea 625
Utah Women Honored by National Council Of Women 626
Joseph Smith's Views of Women 626
Relief Society Conference Minutes Amy Brown Lyman 628
Guide Lessons for February 647

**PUBLICATION INFORMATION**

Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah
$1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c
Canada and Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15c Single Copy
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah

**ADVERTISEMENTS**

Give Something Electrical—backed by our guarantee and Service

There's something electrical for everyone! Toy trains and ranges for the kiddies, and useful, beautiful, appliances to bring joy to the older folks. An electrical gift is doubly valuable when it is purchased here because we see that it gives the right service.

Utah Power & Light Co.
"Efficient Public Service"

Competent Office Help—Is always in demand. If you are bright, alert, and ambitious, you will find a business college training a wonderful investment. This is the best time of the year to begin. Write or call today.

L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE
Day and Evening
SALT LAKE CITY
All the Year

KEELEY'S
ICE CREAM
CANDY
CAKE
PUNCHES
deliciously different

PHONE WAS. 3223

Individual Sacrament Sets
Now in Stock

BEST IN THE MARKET
WILL LAST A LIFE TIME
36 GLASSES IN EACH TRAY
RECOMMENDED BY PATRONS
REFERENCES FURNISHED

Made especially for L. D. S. Churches, and successfully used in Utah and Intermountain region, also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific Islands.

Basic metal, Nickel Silver, heavily plated with Solid Silver.

SIMPLE, SANITARY, DURABLE
Satisfaction guaranteed
Inquiries cheerfully answered

THE LATEST ACKNOWLEDGMENT

"I am in receipt of the Individual Sacrament Set, consisting of four trays and the proper number of glasses. Everything arrived in good condition. We are very pleased with it. I take this occasion to thank you for your kindness."

Bishop's Office, Bern, Idaho, May 2, 1921.

BUREAU OF INFORMATION
Temple Block
Salt Lake City

W. M. McCONAHAY
THE JEWELER
64 So. Main
Phone Was. 1821
Salt Lake City, Utah

When Shopping Mention Relief Society Magazine

100 Sheets of Fine Writing Paper
100 Envelopes
$1.50

Delivered postpaid to your home. Printed with your name and address in fine blue plate Gothic. (Not more than 3 lines). Send Money with order. Write plainly.

Universal Stationery Supply Co.
281—24th Street
OGDEN, UTAH

NEW GARMENTS

The "Temple Brand" Garments are handled only by your leading merchants. We make a Variety of Grades and Weights to meet every requirement, with strings and buttons, long or short sleeves and legs as you want them according to seasonable desires. Samples submitted on request.

For Ladies:
No. 1—Flat Weave Light $0.95
No. 2—Ribbed Weave Light $1.25
No. 15—Extra Quality Flat $1.45
No. 803—Extra Quality Ribbed $1.50
No. 825—Med. Weight Cotton $1.85
No. 800—Silk Stripe Med. $2.00
No. 850—Imp. Lisle $2.50

For Men:
No. 902—Ribbed Light Weight $1.25
No. 903—Ribbed Extra Quality $1.75
No. 925—Med. Light Weight $1.85
No. 975—Med. Heavy Weight $2.25
No. 990—Heavy Econ. Cotton $2.50
No. 9107—Wool & Cotton $4.00
No. 970—Silk & Wool & Cotton $4.50

To insure a good fit give bust measure, height, and weight, specify whether garments are for men or women, and state whether long sleeves ankle length or short sleeves three quarter legs are desired. Double Backs 25c extra. Garments marked 15c pair extra. We prepay postage to all parts of United States.

Oldest Knitting Company in Utah
SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE
70 Main St., Salt Lake City

Ask your dealer for Z. C. M. I. Factory Made
Kiddies' Allovers
DUTCH CUT

They are the famous Mountaineer Brand in dark blue, light blue, striped and khaki
Mothers—they are just what you need for the little tots—and the kiddies like them too

**PHOTO CAPTION**

Relief Society Conference, held at Honolulu, August, 1924. Front row, seated, from left to right: Mrs. Ricky McQuire and Mrs. Minerva Fernandez, counselors, and Mrs. Louise C. Neff, president of Relief Society of Hawaiian Mission; Elder Richard R. Lyman, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, President Anthony W. Ivins, Mrs. Elizabeth Snow Ivins, Miss Daphne Dalton and Mrs. Josephine Smith, visitors from Salt Lake City, and Mrs. Taylor from Ogden; President Eugene Neff, of Hawaiian Mission; Seated on grass, center, Miss Fulvia Ivins and Miss Bae Williams.
Relief Society Magazine 
Relief Society Magazine Vol. XI DECEMBER, 1924 No. 12
A Trip to Hawaii
By Amy Brown Lyman
One can hardly conceive of anything more thrilling in the way of travel than a trip to the Hawaiian Islands, the Paradise of the Pacific. The attractions of this garden spot are becoming so well known that the local boats running from San Francisco to the Islands are now taxed to their capacity to accommodate the tourist travel, and it is necessary to get reservations months ahead.
Aside from the beauty and charm of these tropical islands, members of the Latter-day Saint Church have another and special interest in Hawaii. This interest is due to the great missionary work which has been accomplished there in the past, and is being accomplished today by the Church, and to the fact that there are some twelve thousand Hawaiian Church members residing there.
In the seventy-four years which have elapsed since this mission was opened by President George Q. Cannon, in 1850, hundreds and even thousands of our missionaries, including our late beloved President Joseph F. Smith, have performed service in the Islands, and as a result, approximately one-third of the Hawaiian people today belong to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. So attached do the missionaries become to the place and the people that they are all anxious to return for at least a visit; and their relatives and friends, having heard so much of the wonders of the Islands and the hospitality of the people, are also anxious to make the trip.
President Anthony W. Ivins' party, which left Salt Lake on July 7, for Hawaii, was made up of six enthusiastic individuals, none of whom had previously visited the Islands, none of whom had ever had a real sea voyage, and all of whom were thrilled with the prospects of the visit. The party consisted of President and Mrs. Anthony W. Ivins and daughter, Fulvia; Miss Bae Williams, daughter of Senator
606 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
W. N. Williams, and Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, general president of the Relief Society; and Dr. and Mrs. Richard R. Lyman. President Ivins and Elder Lyman were commissioned by President Heber J. Grant to visit the Hawaiian mission, dedicate the Honolulu chapel, and inspect the business interests of the Church. Their time was taken up largely, during the whole three weeks, in consultations with President Eugene Neff, president of the Hawaiian Mission, and Elder Antoine R. Ivins, manager of the sugar plantation, in surveys of Church and business matters, and in meetings and conferences with the elders and Saints. But
Elder Henry J. Dehaun, President E. J. Neff, Elder Walter N. Steffens, Elder Wm. McCune, Elizabeth Snow Ivins, President A. W. Ivins, Fulvia Ivins, Bae Williams, Elder Richard R. Lyman, Vilate Romney Ivins, Amy Brown Lyman, Hawaiian kids and girls. Roadside, Kona, Hawaii.
Busy as he was, President Ivins, the great friend of the common people and the ardent lover of nature,—human nature included—was never too busy to stop to shake hands with and encourage the laborer, to counsel individually those seeking advice, or to pat the little children on the head and encourage them at a game or feat of skill. Neither did his alert eye or poetic soul miss any of the marvelous beauties of nature. He fairly reveled in the varied and unique scenery. Elder Lyman was filled with enthusiasm over the country, the people, and the accomplishment of the Church.
Mrs. Elizabeth Snow Ivins and Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman
608 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
one-sixth of the population, while the Asiatics make up more than one-half. The census a few years ago shows the entire population of the islands to be 230,210. Of this number there are 24,120 pure Hawaiian and 14,800 mixed Hawaiian and Caucasion of Asiatic blood, making a total of 38,920. The other 191,080 persons are made up of the following: Caucasians or whites, 57,540 with 22,650 Portuguese; 5,080 Porto Rican; 4,210 Spanish; and 25,600 Americans; 91,480 Japanese; 21,770 Chinese; 15,220 Filipinos; 5,270 mixed races.
The death rate among the Hawaiian people is so great that it would seem that this race, as a pure race, must inevitably disappear. During the year the above census was taken, among pure Hawaiians there were 888 deaths as against 533 births. This was partly compensated by more favorable conditions as to part-Hawaiians. The maternity and infant death rates are very high. Infant mortality was at the annual rate of over 139 per 1000 for 1922, and during 1923 it rose to a rate of 304 per 1000. Great efforts are now being made by the Public Health Department to improve health conditions. One finds public health nurses in almost every section of the Territory. A portion of one afternoon was spent very profitably with the public health nurse on the Parker ranch, who explained her work as a visitor in the homes and at the well equipped dispensary. Her salary is paid partly by the Territory and partly by the manager of the ranch.
The Hawaiian people, with their excellent manners and charming grace, are noted for their generosity and hospitality and, indeed, the outstanding features of the visit of the Church party were the hospitality of this genial, kindly and unselfish people, and the manifestation of their love and affection for their leaders.
The Church mission headquarters is now located at Honolulu, where President Neff has his office and where his family resides. The property consists of a large plat of ground, a magnificent chapel or tabernacle built of lava stone and concrete, and an attractive mission home. The Church, which seats 650 people, is beautifully furnished and contains an excellent pipe organ. Mrs. Louise Chamberlain Neff, the capable wife of the mission president, presides over the mission home with grace and dignity, and everybody is made welcome. The regular family, including missionaries who reside in the home, consists of twenty to twenty-five, and it is very interesting to sit at this hospitable board with so many interested and interesting workers. A delicious dinner was served here to the Utah party on the day of their arrival, and was especially appreciated after six days spent on board a vessel. In all, a week was spent with President and Mrs. Neff at Honolulu, and every minute was a joy. There was much to see and much to do. Honolulu is a most beautiful and interesting
A TRIP TO HAWAII 609
city, with probably as great a variety of scenery as any city of its size in the world. The executive building, formerly the royal palace, where the last ruler, Queen Lilioukalani lived and where she was later imprisoned, is most interesting with its remnants of old furniture and its walls covered with paintings of Hawaii's past rulers. It now contains the offices of the governor and other territorial officials, and also the chambers of the Senate and House of Representatives. Mr. Ralph Woolley, a former Utahn, son of Samuel Woolley, for many years president of the L. D. S. Mission in the islands, and who is chairman of the Public Utilities Commission of the Territory, conducted the visitors through the executive building and presented them to the governor.
The Bishop Museum is another place of interest and contains many relics and rare specimens including the ancient royal regalia. Mrs. Bishop, a full-blooded Hawaiian princess, married Mr. Bishop, an American from the state of New York, and their wealth has been left for educational purposes. The Museum and the Bishop School for the Hawaiians are monuments to their generosity.
One of the most attractive spots in all Hawaii is the "Mormon" temple, located on the Church plantation at Laie fifty miles from Honolulu. The sightseeing cars and touring cars all stop here on the trip around the island of Oahu, while their occupants admire the structure and grounds which are set off to the greatest advantage because of the great contrast between this spot and the surrounding fields of cane and pineapple. The temple stands as a monument to the industry as well as the faith of the "Mormon" people and with the beautiful grounds surrounding it, reminds one of a priceless jewel in an exquisitely wrought setting. Elder William M. Waddoups is president of the temple and is assisted in carrying forward the work by the missionaries.
There is a commodious mission home on the plantation which was once the headquarters of the mission, and which is now used as the home of the president of the temple and his family; also the missionaries laboring here. There is also a Church, an amusement hall, a store operated under the management of the plantation, and the Church school—an elementary school, conducted for the benefit of the children on the plantation. The manager of the plantation has a home here, as have also his assistants and helpers and the people who do the manual labor. The unique little plantation railroad should not be overlooked. From the main line, temporary tracks are laid in the cane fields, wherever there is cane to be transported. The rails are laid in one field today, and in another tomorrow, and the train follows the rails and carries the cane from the various localities to the factory.
The plantation school is taught by missionaries who are
610 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
selected because of their ability and past experience as school teachers. Last year the school was in charge of Miss Marguerite Gordon of Alberta, Canada, assisted by five other missionary-teachers. There were 170 pupils in attendance, made up of the following races: Hawaiian, Japanese, Samoan, Porto Rican, Chinese, Filipino, American, Tongan, Spanish, Filipino-Spanish, Hawaiian-Irish, Hawaiian-American, Hawaiian-Chinese, Hawaiian-Japanese, Hawaiian-Samoan, Hawaiian-Indian, English-Hawaiian-Chinese-Spanish, Chinese-Hawaiian-Norwegian. There were also some Negro-Hawaiian-Irish-Portuguese and Korean children in the neighborhood near the plantation, who did not attend day school but who came occasionally to Sunday School.
A regular Church conference was held at Laie and also a Relief Society conference, both of which were well attended and
President Anthony W. Ivins, Mrs. Elizabeth Snow Ivins, and Mrs. Nachie from Japan, a convert to the Church and a devoted friend of Japanese missionaries, including Mr. Grant Ivins, son of President and Mrs. Ivins.
deeply appreciated by the people, who were eager to hear and understand every word spoken by President Ivins, Elder Lyman, and others who addressed them. A large native feast or Luau was held in the amusement hall on the plantation the night of the arrival of the Utah visitors. It was their first introduction to the various Hawaiian foods, which were all beautifully prepared and served. One can hardly imagine a more restful, quiet, romantic spot than Laie, and one week spent here was all too short. With memories of the place itself are memories of the delicious dinners at the home of Mrs. Antoine R. Ivins, and the banquet given for the visitors by Brother Henry Aki, a recent Chinese convert, and
612 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
are teaching and preaching, and in addition some are working on the temple itself as well as in other service connected with the temple. Others are working on the churches which are being built. All are happy and enthusiastic, and sent love and greetings to their loved ones in Zion.
Preceding the Honolulu conference, a Relief Society conference was held with all the branches in and about Honolulu represented. Relief Society work in the Hawaiian mission is in charge of Mrs. Louise C. Neff and is in most excellent condition. It has been established so many years that many of the women have grown old in the work and all of them seem familiar with it. Mrs. Neff is ably assisted by her counselors, two very
President and Mrs. Ivins, taken on board steamer "Maui," leaving Honolulu for San Francisco.
Elder and Mrs. Richard R. Lyman, taken on board steamer "Maui," Leaving Honolulu for San Francisco.
capable Hawaiian sisters, Mrs. Minerva Fernandez, who is a veteran Relief Society worker, and who was a close associate of the former queen; and Mrs. James McQuire, who received her early education and musical training in Germany. There are thirty-six Relief Society branches in the mission, with 861 members. The local presidents are all native Hawaiians, and manage the affairs of their respective branches most capably. Many of the women are excellent speakers and preside with dignity and poise. Last year $1,670.28 was paid out for charity in the mission, 785 days were spent with the sick, and there were 823 special visits to the sick in addition to the 1801 regular visits by the Relief Society teachers.
614 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Brother Bright reported for his wife, who is president of the Relief Society of Molokai, but who, on account of being afflicted with leprosy is not allowed to leave the colony. There are thirty members in this branch, most of whom are blind and crippled. They all attend Relief Society meetings regularly, however, where, Brother Bright said, they receive inspiration, encouragement, and comfort. Their food and clothing are supplied them by the Board of Health, and with their small allowances they have been able to accumulate a charity fund of $120 which will be used to help the most unfortunate.
The music of the conference was a special feature and showed musical ability on the part of the women, and also careful preparation. Sisters Ivins and Lyman emphasized here as at other meetings, proper home-making, the care and feeding of children, and urged the importance of health measures and sanitation. They explained briefly the efforts of the Relief Society along the lines of general health, maternity and child welfare. Sister Ivins and Sister Lyman were each presented by the Relief Society women with a beautiful Relief Society pin in solid gold. These pins are most highly prized and will ever be reminders of this memorable visit.
In Honolulu, as well as elsewhere, dinners and socials were given in honor of the visitors. Mrs. Lydia Cummings entertained at dinner, and Mr. and Mrs. James McQuire gave a great luau in their spacious and elegant home, to which seventy-five were bidden. This feast was given after the fashion of those given in the olden days by royalty and nobility, and was followed by a rare entertainment of native dances, songs and chants. On the last evening, a farewell party was given by President and Mrs. Neff on the spacious lawns at the mission home. The grounds were beautifully lighted for the occasion and an excellent musical program was given, including music by the Royal Hawaiian band which was in attendance. Short speeches were made by President Neff and the departing visitors, and a reception followed in which all the guests shook hands with the members of President Ivins' party and bade them an affectionate farewell.
The Discontinued Custom
By Annie Pike Greenwood
Grandmother Snowden awoke with a feeling of pleasurable anticipation. She was one of those rarest of old people who take delight in the living present. She had always taken delight in life, and age had not altered her. She kept up all old family customs, but dearer than all others to her were the Christmas festivities, when her boys and girls, and in-laws, and all their children, took dinner with her, and spent the evening in mad merriment in the spacious, beautiful old mansion. Fun they knew how to have, for they had inherited Grandmother's abundant humor, modified and hampered, unfortunately by Grandfather Snowden's irascible temper. Grandmother was the only person who knew, perfectly, how to manage Grandfather Snowden, just as she was generally managing one or another of their quick tempered progenitors. Grandfather Snowden had been dead five years, and the Christmas planning was on her mind alone.
With the help of her maid Amanda, who had been with her for twenty years, she dressed herself, and set out in her coupe for the market. An ordinary dinner she would trust to Mrs. Berswick, the housekeeper, but the Christmas dinner must be her own selection in every detail.
Meredith's the high-class shop which had everything one might desire in edibles, was where her trading was always done. To the younger clerks she was known by her account, but the older ones remembered that she appeared annually to do her own buying, and they turned over to younger clerks such customers as they might be waiting upon, and gave their time exclusively to Mrs. James W. Snowden as long as she might desire it.
"Mr. Hampton," she addressed the elderly man who had hurried eagerly toward her upon her entrance, having instructed Sammy Brown to take the rest of young Mrs. Pierpont's order. "Mr. Hampton, have you a large turkey for me?"
Hampton beamed and rubbed his hands on his white apron delightedly. "I sure have, Mrs. Snowden. I saved one especial for you. When this shipment of turkeys came, there was one fellow that out-beat all the rest, and I says to the boys right then, "There's Mrs. Snowden's turkey!' and I set it aside, as you'll see, with name on it. I s'pose you want to take it with you as you always do?"
Grandmother Snowden smiled at him, with a pretty flush in her cheeks, "Certainly, Mr. Hampton; I want to take the whole
616 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
dinner back with me. Did you remember another turkey for the servants?"
"Yes, ma'am, Mrs. Snowden. I saved another. But this bird I saved for your family—Well, you'll see—" He left her, and was back in a moment with two turkeys, placing one of them on the scales, and proudly drawing her attention to it. "See that, Mrs. Snowden? Tips the scales at thirty pounds! Don't see many birds like that!"
One thing after another she ordered until the dinner was complete, and when she rode home it was with the triumphant consciousness of a happy deed accomplished. While the chef was busy with her directions concerning desserts, she thought she would telephone her girls of the approaching event, and enjoy the anticipatory pleasure of discussing it. Of course, there was no question in her mind about their coming, because a custom established in the Snowden family was never discontinued.
"Hello, Edith, is that you?—I have the finest turkey I ever had for our Christmas dinner, and—Who is to be here?—Why, what a funny question! All of you, of course:—What's that?—You won't come if Helen does?—Edith Singleton, are you crazy?—you won't come if your own sister comes?—She didn't come to help you with that dinner you were giving, when she had promised? Well, perhaps—You say you know she was just joy-riding with that Mrs. Eggers?—But, Edith—well, I am provoked with you! Goodbye!"
Grandmother Snowden hung up the receiver with a snap, and a sparkle of indignation was in her eyes. Then she took it from the hook and asked for another number.
"I want Helen—Oh, Helen! Of course, you are coming to eat Christmas dinner with me!—Why not Edith?—Oh!—What about Fred?—He didn't let Grant in on that deal when he made all that money and he could just as well have done it?—Oh, what shall I do with such a family!—You say the Fletchers, Hancocks, Demmings, and Glaziers won't come if the Yates, Moores, Valentines, Wilkins and Keisers do?—Very well! Then none of you shall come! I won't have a broken-up squabbling family sitting at my table " Grandmother Snowden's heart was high. A red spot burned is either cheek. "Amanda," she directed that faithful servitor, "Have Jerry take the big turkey to the Salvation Army, with all that goes with it. I shall be dining alone on Christmas day." Amanda did not question Grandmother's decision, and she knew better than to offer any consolatory words. But her heart boiled with indignation at the persons or circumstances which had interrupted this dearest of all customs to Grandmother Snowden's heart. On Christmas day Grandmother Snowden went about the 618 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE on cards, and when she reached the hotel in her handsome modern gown, she placed these cards herself on the dining-table in the Japanese room, every other one face downward. Ed Proctor she told to have her guests in the blue room notified first. When they seated themselves according to her direction, it was with some surprise that they noted the vacant chair by each place. What could it mean? None of them dared investigate the cards which lay face downward beside the unclaimed plates. The blue room guests were ushered into the dining-room. They entered the room in a body, and stood staring in shocked surprise. Claire Keiser, who had inherited most abundantly her grandmother's sense of humor, was the first to regain her self-possession, bursting into rippling laughter, and swooping down upon her grandmother, "Oh, you darling! What a perfectly delightful scheme! Now, don't a single one of you scrapping old fogies spoil Grandmother's Christmas by sulking! You sit right down where she wants you. Is my name by you, Grandmother? It is! How lovely! I hoped you'd want me as much as I wanted you!" Embarrassed, but smiling, the entire family was seated. Every member was glad of the stroke of genius that had brought them together. Like combative people in general, they welcomed the chance of reconciliation that would not compromise their pride. During the chattering and laughter which followed, Edith leaned across the table to Helen and said, "Of course, we are all going to Mother's after dinner, aren't we?' "Of course,' answered Helen, "we couldn't discontinue an old custom!" A flicker of tolerant humor came into Grandmother Snow-. Den's old eyes as she overheard them. SENSIBLE CHRISTMAS GIVING... 621 ened, spiced, and shortened bread with fruit in something like our raisin bread) are on hand, and possibly more elaborate refreshments. The Germans send Christmas greeting cards to a very wide circle of friends. They, too, regard Christmas day ina religious light, and keep to quiet family reunions. In France, also, Christmas is a holy day. Many of the Catholics go to confession some time the day before Christmas and fast from then until midnight mass. At midnight the people all attend the elaborate mass ritual in the beautiful churches, then have a delicious dinner at home after that. The children shine their shoes and shine and shine and shine, and place them in a neat row on the mantelpiece, for Santa will come in the night and fill them with candies and other goodies. Christmas day is for further worship, and family gatherings. The real day for gifts is New Year's. The children have their bundles ready, and go to bed early. Father and mother retire also, with all sorts of mysterious packages concealed about them. When the chimes ring at midnight, the children arise and flock to their parents' room, kiss their father and mother, and wish them a happy New Year, then recite some selection they have learned, and present their gifts. The parents accept nothing that is merely purchased. The gifts must be the handiwork of the children. Perhaps it is some special drawing or geopraphy paper, or something of that kind. All through December, the children have been very busy. Little Marie has an exciting time, hiding from father the stockings she is knitting for him, and keeping mother's gift, and sister's, too, out of their sight. She must be prepared-to drop one and pick up another at any moment. Perhaps mother has had Marie neatly cutting and sewing some clothes for a doll for a poor little girl in the neighborhood; and perhaps she herself will receive that doll and those very clothes, from behind mother's pillow. That gift—a real lovely doll she will prize and cherish for many years. As a rule children are given. A good deal less, and are much more careful and appreciative than American kiddies., Santa Claus does not visit South American "minos," but they receive a few small remembrances from their families, and have a suggestion of a celebration. The servants, however, begin reminding the "senora" several days ahead, that the Holy Night is coming and that they need a pair of sandals or a new dress or something else. More often than not from a sense of innate modesty, Concha will tell the mistress that Fermina needs, and Fermina will mention Joachin's desires, and so on, or the mothers may call and do a little talking on their own account. Returning to our own Christmas, and the idea of sensible giving, probably we should remember the applicability of the old Greek SENSIBLE CHRISTMAS GIVING — 623 men would be delighted with a gift of home-made candy or a fruit cake, others would not esteem it, particularly. Some care greatly about beautifully monogramed handkerchiefs, others are rather indifferent to such things, In many cases, families co-operate and buy their presents together. It is a commendable system. Most of us would prefer one elaborate gift from six people than six individual lesser gifts. And with this system applied to the children of the brothers and sisters, they need not be flooded with superfluous perishable toys, but might receive more substantial toys or articles of clothing, or other things which they would desire and appreciate—which _ would not overcrowd the house, and would help the mother. Consecutive Christmas gifts of the same kind, are a good plan, especially when people are trying to acquire a complete set of china or silverware. Even if people's means are very limited, two or three or more could combine to give one piece of either silver or china, two teaspoons or forks or even one, in preference to two or three trifles. For the succeeding birthday or Christmas, the gift might be duplicated. Like the French, we should, and most of us do, stress the importance of the gift made by friends or family. Mothers cannot be too appreciative of the efforts of their little ones in this direction. The calendar or pen-wiper, however amateurish, that is presented by the child with a happy smile and the proud words, "I made it for you, myself, mother," should receive a place of honor a longside the handsomest piece of wrought silverware. To this end, children should be encouraged to make their gifts, and should be started out early in the year. Being thus occupied will keep them busy and happy and out of mischief, and the time a mother spends teaching them, will be more than saved in time that she would have to correct them otherwise. We, ourselves, find it difficult to do the handwork we desire, but if, all through the year, we kept within immediate reach, a basket or bag, with a Christmas article, needle and thread and scissors and thimble, in it, so that if we sat down just ten minutes to rest our feet, or half an hour to chat with a visitor; or if it were quite ready to pick up and take with us to make a call, or go to club, or a party, we would accomplish enough to surprise ourselves. Doubtless all the Relief Societies are contributing useful suggestions for Christmas gifts. In the Ensign stake Relief Society, an effort is being made to increase the attendance at the work and business meetings. All women are urged to come and bring their own work, if they are not engaged on some Relief Society quilts or other articles. Sister Lucile Taylor, the work chairman of the Board, has been EDITORIAL Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS President MRS. JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT - -First Counselor MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - - - Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - -General Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs. Julia A. Child Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor.  - - - Clarissa SMITH WILLIAMS Associate Editor:.. - -. - - Alice Louise REYNOLDS Business Manager. -. - - - - - - - Jeanette A. Hyde Assistant Manager: - - - Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. XI DECEMBER, 1924 

Vol. XI DECEMBER, 1924 No. 12 A Greeting From Across The Sea We greet you from across the sea?from a land that has held the leadership of the world from the days of ancient Rome, until the period of the Great War?from a land that has produced great painters and musicians and writers, great scientists and preachers and statesmen?from a country covered with buildings of architectural fame, of world-old churches whose spires reach toward heaven and whose bells chime out on the Sabbath air, "Peace on earth, good will to men.", In this country some of you, and many of your fathers and "mothers and grandparents, were born. In the spring of the year I ate dinner with a lady who had lived all her life within an easy walk of Warwick castle. I have had as an acquaintance for inany years a woman who knew the city of Canterbury as if by rote. She knew the cathedral, the archbishop's palace, the bell called "Old Hal," after Henry VIII, the little tea shop were Dickens is said to have met McCawber, and the homes of Agnes and Uriah Heap. She knew the long Dover road and nearly all the places of interest in her native city. I have another acquaintance whose home was in Paris, and who reveled in the dramatic stories furnished us by French history and in, its many historic spots. I have known, rather intimately, in my life, people from Cologne, Germany, from Berlin, Dresden, Brussels, Amsterdam, Copenhagen, Stockholm and Christiania, and it is 632. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE establishment of such a home, and not until the community sees its way to fully finance such a proposition. Any maternity home established by the Relief Society. Should conform to the highest standards for such institutions. The buildings should be sanitary and well equipped. The right kind of competent help should be secured, including a hospital graduate nurse. Only reputable, well-trained physicians should be connected with the institution. The Cottonwood stake, through the co-operation of the First Presidency and the Presiding Bishopric, have recently established a maternity home in Murray, for which we commend them. This undertaking will be watched closely by the First Presidency and Presiding Bishopric, as well as by the General Board of Relief Society. A certain community in the southern part of the state is anxious to establish a maternity home, also, but when a survey was made, it was found that there are only about eighty births a year, which would of course not justify the establishment of a maternity hospital, without an absolute knowledge that additional funds could be raised and would be forthcoming. I feel that there is no more commendable thing for Relief Societies to do than to arrange for mothers to be given the proper care during confinement, and I believe the time will come when maternity cottages will be scattered throughout Latter-day Saint communities. It is highly honorable for women to bear children. The labor of the Latter-day Saints is to build up the communities with honest, honorable, healthy people. Public Health Nurses: I am a great believer in the public health nurse, and I hope the time will soon come when there will be one in every county. I hope Relief Society women will encourage the movement. There are very few public health nurses in the states where the Relief Society is organized; so in addition to having in mind the thought of providing such nurses for the communities, Relief Society women should also have in mind their training and preparation. The public health nurse must be a hospital graduate nurse, and must also have one year of training in addition in a school where training in public health work is given. It would be a great credit to our organization if there could be public health nurses in all the communities of the Latterday Saints, through the efforts of the Relief Society organization, in co-operation with the counties and other agencies. ? There is so much said and written about the health of the community now, and about the health of the individual. The death rate of children is decreasing, the infant mortality is decreasing; people are living to an older age, and it is through the efforts of men and women that this is the case. Yesterday I just happened to look through the newspaper. There was an article which said that the ideas which we have in regard to 634.. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE MISS IONE ALDER Miss Alder stated that when she responded to President Knight's call to come to Denver to arrange for health work in southern Colorado, she went to the office of the Colorado AntiTuberculosis Association, where the executive secretary, Miss Garnet I. Pelton, explained to her that the Association had been making a survey in Colorado, and had found that 67% of the children in many districts were malnourished, underweight, and with physical defects. At the time the survey was made it was found that the mothers and children in all the communities were very much interested in public health work, and it was desirable to give them all assistance possible. Miss Alder reported that she spent five weeks in Denver, preparing for the work she was called to do in the southern part of the state. She was given training by the Visiting Nurse Association, going out with the nurses into the homes, doing bedside nursing, and studying sanitation. The Denver Anti-Tuberculosis Association gave Miss Alder training in nutrition, and she spent some time at the various health clinics in Denver. She stated that when she reached her destination, she found the Relief Society officers of the San Luis and Young stakes ready and willing to co-operate with her in her work in every possible way. In the towns which were visited by Miss Alder, announcements were made in the public meetings that health conferences would be held. The equipment used in weighing and measuring the children who attended the health conference was carried from town to town. The children's eyes, teeth, and tonsils were examined, and the general condition of health noted. The records of the findings at the health conferences were taken into the homes of the children, where the mothers were told of the condition of the children, and were given an opportunity to discuss with the nurse the care which the children should receive. It was found in Colorado, as it is found everywhere, that the children were not drinking enough milk, nor eating enough vegetables, and that they were eating too much sweets, especially between and before meals. Miss Alder reported that in connection with the health conferences and visits to the homes, she gave talks on nutrition to the mothers in Relief Society meetings, and to the children in Primary meetings. This method was followed in each town visited, Nutrition classes were also organized where mothers came and brought their children to be weighed. In Colorado health work effort has been made to interest the child in his own health, and when a child gains in weight, he is given a star, which interests him and makes a game of proper eating and sleeping habits, 638 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE all agencies. No agency should magnify its own function at the expense of other agencies. The demand for team play among all field workers is obvious and pressing. The health of the community is, after all, a matter of general and co-operative interest. The essential thing in team play is that each participant. Shall not lose his identity but shall subordinate his individual purposes to the common interest and do his part loyally in spreading the gospel of health. We need to bring ourselves to see each other's viewpoint and if we earnestly strive to do so, much can be accomplished by exchange of information, standardization of work, and co-operation of allied activities. In our own state where the number of public health nurses is so limited, the volunteer agencies render valuable service in the field of public health, but this service can be rendered more economically and to greater advantage if co-ordinated and carried on in co-operation with official agencies. I am inclined to believe that one of the most important steps forward in health education has come from the adoption of a gauge whereby the layman as well as the specialist can judge of the child's physical condition and be taught some of the fundamentals of health building and disease prevention. We need more public health nurses, we need an active health council where the various organizations may go for advice in all matters pertaining to health building, we need to understand one another better and to work at whatever task we are fitted to improve the health of our community. We need the volunteer worker. The latter represents a group which is not held down by law, nor confined by circumscribed rules and customs. This group can rise to any occasion within their providence. They can secure funds from sources not available to health departments. They can assist the public health nurse in many ways to make her work more effective and far reaching. But the volunteer worker needs the public health nurse and the health departments for help and guidance. The conclusion is not difficult: the one thing needed is more trained teachers in health education, and better co-operation between all agencies. COMMUNITY RECREATION Counselor Jennie B, Knight Recreation has been an important factor in the community life of the Latter-day Saints since the beginning. Even in the long days of strenuous travel across the plains, there was relaxation in recreation, around the evening campfire. I am sure no plea needs to be made to this body of progressive women for rec- 640 _ RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE a. The providing of ways and means for wholesome enjoyment. B. An educational campaign for better use of leisure time. C. More attention to education in valuable enjoyment. D. A fairer distribution of recreational opportunities. 2. The development of the spirit of sympathy and brotherly feeling through: a. More extensive social contact. B. More natural social contact. C. Breaking down undesirable class distinction in communities. 3. The development of a higher type of social leadership. Group activities demand intelligent initiative cooperation. 4. Promoting health by means of proper physical and social recreation: a. More outdoor activities. B. Better supervision of these activities. C. The creation of a variety of interesting activities for adults. 5. Developing culture and social refinement in youth. A. Maintaining proper standards of etiquette in parties and social functions. B. Educating youth to assist individuals who ere socially timid. C. Directing the mind 6f the youth to the beautiful in dress and outward expression, and to the deep values of mind and spirit. 6. Developing the power of self expression through dramatics, debating, and other aesthetic and intellectual activities. 7. Extending desirable acquaintanceship among adolescents: a. That wholesome friendship may be made. B. That ideals of manhood and womanhood may develop. C. That -errors in courtship may be avoided and a more wholesome relationship promoted. The Mutual Improvement Associations have recommended that a budget be prepared to cover expenses of recreation in the ward, and that this budget cover the expenses of such activities only as are open to the entire membership of the ward. Activities limited to membership of a given group, where all the members of the ward are not invited, should be financed by the organization concerned. In view of the fact that many organizations are not suf- Guide Lessons for February LESSON I (First Week in February) Theology and Testimony THE PARABLES OF OUR SAVIOR (Concluded) The Royal Marriage Feast. Matt. 22:1-14. "And Jesus answered and spake unto them again by parables, and said, "The kingdom of heaven is like unto a certain king, which made a marriage for his son, "And sent forth his servants to call them that were bidden to the wedding: and they would not come. "Again he sent forth other servants. Tell them which are bidden, Behold, I have prepared my dinner; my oxen and my fatlings are killed, and all things are ready: come unto the marriage. "But they made light of it, and went their ways, one to his farm, another to his merchandize: "And the remnant took his servants, and entreated them spitefully, and slew them. "But when the king heard thereof, he was wroth: and he sent forth his armies, and destroyed those murderers, and burned up their city. "Then saith he to his servants, The wedding is ready, but they which were bidden were not worthy. "Go ye therefore into the highways, and as many as ye shall find, bid to the marriage. "So those servants went out into the highways, and gathered together all, as many as they found, both bad and good: and the wedding was furnished with guests. "And when the king came in to see the guests, he saw there. A man which had not on a wedding garment: "And he saith unto him, Friend, how camest thou in hither, not having a wedding garment? And he was speechless. "Then said the king to the servants, Bind him hand and foot, and take him away, and cast him into outer darkness: there shall _ be weeping and gnashing of teeth." Comments?In many respects this illustrative story is like the 'one recorded in Luke 14:16-24, and some writers have taken each to be of a different version of the other. The differences, however 648 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE are too great to admit of a conclusion that the two parables were identical. One was spoken in the temple; the other was uttered at the Sabbath feast, given at the home of a prominent Pharisee. These two parables are different in their nature in that one is milder than the other. In one the offence of the guests is limited to declining the invitation with excuses; in the other the invitations are treated with contempt, insult, and the murder of the messengers, In one, the penalty was an edict against admitting anyone who had not accepted the invitation; in the other case the insolent and criminal conduct was punished by the destruction of their city and the forfeiture of life; One was spoken at a time when open rebellion against Christ's mission had not been declared; the other at a time when hostility was at its height, and his death had been determined by an official council of the scribes and Pharisees. In one parable the giver of the feast is a prominent citizen; in the other, the host is a king. In one case the invitations were the cordial solicitations of a nobleman; in the other, the bidding was the call of an official leader. In one case the banquet had one object; the enjoyment of the guest; in the other it had a double purpose: the pleasure of the guests and the commemoration of the wedding of the king's son?The day in which the love, confidence, protection, and presence shall exist between Christ and his Church that exists between groom and bride. This parable, like the one of "The Great Supper," was both historic and prophetic. In it there seems to be a crystalized statement of the mission of John the Baptist and the apostles, and the rejection of their messages. Then it carries over into the future and indicates the persecution and killing of the messengers, just as was the case after the death of Jesus then the penalties which are now matters of history are predicted. Then, the filling of the guest chamber from the "highways," is history being made, and finally the discovery and ejectment of the unfit from the feast is yet to come. "The king of the parable is God;" we read on page 538, in Jesus the Christ, "the son whose marriage was the occasion of the feast, is Jesus, the Son of God; the guests who were bidden early, yet who refused to come when the feast was ready, are the covenant people who rejected their Lord, the Christ; the later guests, who were brought in from the streets and the roads, are the Gentile nations, to whom the gospel has been carried since its rejection by the Jews; the marriage feast is symbolical of the glorious consummation of the Messiah's mission.' In this parable the man without a wedding garment becomes a center of interest. Those to whom Jesus was speaking would GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY 649 know of the custom of supplying wearing costumes suited to the occasion. On this occasion it would seem that provision had been made for every one to be supplied with the necessary festive attire. This fact may account for the speechlessness of the intruder, he could make no excuse for he knew that the king knew that wedding garments had been given to all who came in at the door. Therefore, he merited the treatment of a "thief and a robber." Then arises the question as to what was meant by the wedding garment without which no one could legally enter, or be permitted to remain in the kingdom. Was it not the robe spoken of in Gal. 3:27? One biblical authority says: "The wedding garment is righteousness, in its largest sense: the whole adornment of the new and spiritual man, including faith, without which it is impossible to please God, and the holiness, without which no man shall see him?or like this guest, shall only see him to perish at his presence." The outer darkness is a state of weeping through disappointment, and gnashing of teeth through hatred. Of the lessons taught by this the last parable, spoken by Jesus to a mixed assembly, the following seem most prominent: 1. The Lord desires the happiness of all. 2. The Lord is not dependent on any special class of per-. Sons for the carrying out of his purposes. 3. The Lord has a way of scrutinizing every individual no matter how great the group. 4. Blessings can be obtained only through obedience to law. Parable of the Entrusted Talents?Matt. 25:14-30. "For the kingdom of heaven is as a man traveling into a far country, who called his own servants, and delivered unto them his goods. "And unto one he gave five talents, to astettien. Two, and to another one; to every man according to his several ability; and straightway took his journey. "Then he that had received the five talents went and traded with the same, and made them other five talents. "And likewise he that had received two, he also gained other two. "But he that had received one, went and digged in the earth, and hid his Lord's money. "After a long time the Lord of those servants cometh, and reckoneth with them. "And so he that had received five talents came and brought other five talents, saying, Lord, thou deliveredst unto me five talents: behold, I have gained beside them five talents more. 650 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "His lord said unto him, Well done, thou good and faithful servant: thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things: enter thou into the joy of thy lord. "He also that had received two talents came and said, Lord, thou deliveredst unto me two talents: behold, I have gained two other talents beside them. "His lord said unto him, Well done, good and faithful servant; thou has been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things: enter thou into the joy of thy lord. "Then he which had received the one talent came and said, Lord, I knew thee that thou art an hard man, reaping where thou hast not sown, and gathering where thou hast not strawed: "And I was afraid, and went and hid thy talent in the earth: lo, there thou hast that is thine. "His lord answered and said unto him, Thou wicked and slothful servant, thou knewest that I reap where I sowed not, and gather where I have not strawed: "Thou oughtest therefore to have put my money to the exchangers, and then at my coming I should have received mine own with usury. "Take therefore the talent from him, and give it unto him which hath ten talents. "For unto every one that hath shall be given, and he shall have abundance: but from him that hath not shall be taken away even that which he hath." Comment?This parable has something in common with the parable of the Pounds recorded in Luke 19:11-27. They both aim at the encouragement of faithfulness in the use of ability and opportunity. Each teaches the necessity of implicit confidence in the Lord as paymaster. In both instances the proprietors were going on journeys. In both parables loyalty and effort were rewarded, while disloyalty and negligence were met with merited punishment ?the outer darkness which always follows iniquity. Both parables are illustrative of the truth couched in the statement, Care for and keep; neglect and lose. These parables differ in that in one, the amounts entrusted were equal; in the other the distribution of capital was according to the capacity of the servant?"every man according to his several ability." The parables of the Pounds was spoken on the way from Jericho to Jerusalem to a mixed multitude. The parable of the Entrusted Talents, the last of his parables, was spoken to His disciples after his final visit to the temple. Among the lessons of life to be learned from the parable of the Entrusted Talents stands out in bold relief the importance of doing our best with what is entrusted to our care. Had the 652 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 12. To whom was the last parable spoken, and what great Latter- 13. Discuss the problem: Our good works follow us as lifting evers. LESSON II (Second Week in February) | Work and Business Teachers' Topic for February Curfew Law A siren or bell should not be necessary to establish the observance of this law. A sentiment in favor of its value ought to be encouraged - in every home. The Lord has told us the value of retiring early, in the Doctrine and Covenants, Section 88. Sleep is as conducive to health as food. LESSON III (Third Week in February) Literature SIDNEY LANIER 59 Sidney Lanier was a notable example of a man of versatile talent. He seemed for many years of his life as much the musician as the poet. Only as he matured did it become apparent that he had more creative ability as a poet than he had as a musician. Yet the fact that he was a musician made of him one of those rare singers, the music of whose verse thrills with a satisfaction unknown, where the feeling for music is lacking. Such a poet was John Milton among the English, and such a poet was Sidney Lanier among Americans. We have already noted the music of Edgar Allen Poe's verse, who, like Lanier, was of Southern birth. Critics are pretty generally agreed that no one but a man day Saint lesson is taught by it? A GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY | 653 of Southern birth could have written what Sidney Lanier wrote; consequently he becomes an intepreter of the section that gave him birth. His life was a severe struggle with untoward circumstances. War, poverty, and serious ill health, growing out of the hardships of both poverty and war, were his portion. One cannot resist wondering what his contribution might have been had he been nurtured in an environment such as Longfellow and Lowell knew. He was born in Macon, Georgia, February 3, 1842. He attended school until the age of fourteen, when he entered Oglethrope college.: His musical gift was inherited, for as a boy he could play any instrument he tried. His favorite instrument was the violin, which proved to be so wearing on his sensitive nature that, yielding to his fathers request, he gave it up and devoted himself to the flute. He mastered the flute without instruction, and later "attained great distinction as first flutist in the Peabody Orchestra, of Baltimore," say his biographers. After being graduated he served as a tutor for nearly a year, resigning to enlist in the Confederate army, in April, 1861. He went through the war as a private, declining several offers of promotion, because he was. Unwilling to be separated from his brother Clifford to whom he was devoted, in an extraordinary degree. However, close to a year before the war was over the two were separated by being detailed as signal officers on board a blockade runner. While in this service, Sidney was captured, and imprisoned for five months. During the war he began to develop symptoms of tuberculosis. Imprisonment in the wretched prison at Point Lookout, North Carolina, provided just the development of the disease; consequently Sidney Lanier may be regarded as one of the victims of the Civil War, as his death was undoubtedly the result of living the life of a soldier. On his release from prison on February, 1865, he walked home to Georgia, where he went through a severe illness of six weeks. Just as he recovered his mother died. - Poverty had engulfed the Lanier family as it had thousands of other southern families, so that this gifted son of the South took the first occupation that presented itself, which chanced to be a clerkship in an Alabama hotel, at Montgomery. In May, 1867, Lanier went to New York to arrange for the publication of his war novel Tiger Lilies. In September of the same year he became principal of a school in Prattsville, Alabama. Three months after, he married Miss Mary Day of his own home town, Macon, Georgia. The union proved to be ideally happy, and might almost be classed with such a marriage as Elizabeth Barrett and Robert Browning. From his devotion to his wife GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY ~? 635 And loves for all that God and man In art and nature make or plan, And lady-loves for spidery lace And broideries and supple grace And diamonds and the whole sweet round Of littles that large life compound, And loves for God and God's bare truth, And loves for Magdalen and Ruth. Dear eyes, dear eyes and rare complete? Being heavenly-sweet and earthly-sweet, I marvel that God made you mine, For when He frowns 'tis then ye shine! A month after marriage Lanier went back to Macon, Georgia, in poor health. For some reason, not plain, he went into the study of law with his father, a venture that covered four years. His health became the urgent necessity of his life, so that he first took a trip to New York for treatment, and later to Texas for climate. In December, 1873, he began work with the Baltimore orchestra, publishing fourteen months later the poem that marked him as a man of genius. This poem called forth by a Georgia Jandscape in summer he called Corn. It begins: Today the woods are trembling through and through With shimmering forms, that flash before my view, Then melt in green as dawn-stars melt in blue. From the date of the publication of Corn, Bayard Taylor, the distinguished writer, and Sidney Lanier became fast friends. He procured the appointment for Lanier to write a cantata for the Philadelphia Centennial of 1876. Lanier has paid Taylor more than one tribute in verse. The years remaining to Lanier were spent in a vain attempt to find a climate in which he might live without suffering so severely. He tried the mountains near North Carolina "and Tampa, Florida. Lanier's musical talent contributed much to his musical success. To the type of poetry where sound and movement combine to produce both meaning and music, he made a most valuable contribution. Much as he loved music, and greatly as it added to his poetry, for he sometimes set his poetry to music, he desired more to be an expert in the field of literature. This desire was granted all too late, we are tempted to say, for the embers of life were burning low with him when he accepted a chair in Johns Hopkins University. We are told that his students often wondered if his breath would last through the recitation. After two years' service, from 1879-1881, at Johns Hopkins University, he wrote the Commemoration Ode, delivered on the 656 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE University's fourth anniversary which contains the beautiful lines: "Bring faith that sees with understanding eyes, The world has bloomed again, at Baltimore." He passed to his reward at Asherville, North Carolina, where he died in September. Mrs. Lanier's description of the event is a classic, so we include it: "We are left alone with one another. On the last night of the summer comes the change. His love and immortal will hold off the destroyer of our summer one more week, until the forenoon of September 7th, and then falls the frost, and that unfaltering will renders its supreme submission to the adored will of God." A character poem of Lanier's is The Symphony. In the poem he personifies each instrument in the orchestra and makes them discuss various deep social questions of the time. Like most artists, Lanier makes a plea for more heart in business, more time for the consideration of heart-throbs, more heart for the mad rush of trade. Lanier's life presents three absorbing topics: They are Lanier the man, Lanier the musician, and Lanier the poet. Questions and Problems 1. What was the occasion of the centennial celebration in Philadelphia, 1876? 2. What contribution did Sidney Lanier make to that celebration? 3. "My Springs" is one of the noblest and most beautiful tributes ever written by a man to a woman: read it carefully, and try to list the things that Lanier says his wife inspires and stimulates in his life. 4, What does Lanier mean, when he speaks of the "littles that large life compound?". Do you think the world still needs singers who ask for more heart in the world of commerce and trade, if so, why? 6. Show that the untimely death of Sidney Lanier, is a protest against war. 7. What are the chances that the Great War took from the world many persons who would have made notable. Contributions? LESSON IV (Fourth Week in February) Social Service 2 Housing and Housekeeping ' The physical aspects of-a home influence very definitely the development of the family. Good sanitary and dietary standards in a family are likely to make for a high standard of health. Also, a well-regulated home contributes to the members more than GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY 657 physical well-being; it develops certain desirable traits in all the members of the family. In a'successfully managed home the members feel a responsibility to maintain the family standard, they take a pride in order and in cleanliness, they learn the lesson of thrift and industry, and they learn to have mutual respect for each other's wishes, belongings and rights. It is quite comprehensible that a well-organized family life develops agreeable, normal, successful individuals. It is also, then, conceivable that reverse conditions develop opposite traits and characteristics. Not only can the health of a child be undermined by the undesirable living conditions, but an unattractive, unsanitary home can effect his progress in school, his conduct, and his outlook on life. Juvenile Court authorities can often understand why children stay out late at night, and interpret their resulting waywardness and delinquencies, when the homes of the children in difficulty are visited. In trying to understand the economic success and the educational and normal tone of a family it is important to keep in mind the significance of the physical aspects of the home. In cities, and particularly the larger ones, the actual housing conditions become such a problem that legislation is usually required to control sanitation, ventilation, and to prevent the exploitation of the tenants. Such legislation limits the increase that landlords are permitted to make in the rentals and also requires that certain repairs be made, and that each room be equipped with windows or with air shafts. Such minimum requirements, however, express only in a meager way the sentiment of the community regarding living conditions. The standard set for the whole community by physicians, social workers and household experts, who aim to avoid the dangers of overcrowding, to foster health, and to develop wholesome home life, realize that the facilities must be adequate to promote the best possible family life. A family of six can hardly manage with less than five rooms? three for sleeping, a kitchen, and a living room where social life in the family can be encouraged. Young people are reluctant to bring their friends into the home if there is not one room where they can read, talk, play games, or enjoy music of some sort. What furnishings a house has depend largely on taste, on individual preferences, and on the income. Certainly there should be adequate sleeping room and sufficient bedding. There should also be cupboard space for clothing, so as to encourage a sense of order and responsibility, even among the children, for the care of their belongings. The kitchen or living room should have enough furniture so that the entire family can be seated for their meals. 658 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Elementary as these requirements may seem, an appreciation of their significance has led many persons, who are meeting the difficulties of bad housekeeping and undernourished children. To a better understanding of these problems. If a mother does not have the kitchen equipment to prepare food, and if the family is living in such crowded quarters that it is difficult for the family to be seated for their meals, the children will often be subjected to the unwholesome practices of eating standing-up snatches of hastily prepared meals. To improve standards of housekeeping is a difficult but by no means a hopeless task. The successful housekeeper, lil: e a successful person in any occupation, must be trained, must have necessary equipment to do the work, and must have an incentive to succeed. Until the process of housework has become a habit, it may be necessary for the housewife to work by a schedule? setting aside definite hours each day to perform certain household tasks, Without equipment?washtubs, kitchen utensils, sufficient linen, etc.,?the work is more difficult and complicated. It is a simple matter to advise cleanliness to all housewives, but the one who has no hot water and no laundry conveniences will have some difficulty in attaining the same standard that is easily achieved in better equipped homes. To instruct a mother to take her children out for a daily airing may be very sound hygienic advice, but it may not be very practical to follow if she does not have a baby carriage. In attempting to give instructions in housekeeping it is important to create an incentive or motive for improvement. If a mother is made to realize, through clinical or school exaniunations, for instance, that her children are not as well-developed as other children of the same age, she may be helped to see the connection between her own indifferent housekeeping and the poor health of the family. In another instance, the motive for creating a pleasant family environment may not come until the mother realizes that her children would rather spend their time elsewhere?with the neighbors, at the movies, or in the streets? than to spend their leisure in their own home. Questions and Problems What housing problem does your community. Have? What is the relation between housekeeping and health? How do you account for the undernourishment of chilWhy would the housekeeping influence the school work of children? Their conduct? 5. Discuss the social values of a pleasant home atmosphere. Dren in cities? In rural communities? The season of Lamps and Gifts is now here and there may be some who would think the day dark without a gift from you. The sun will surely shine if they get the gift from Callaway's 66 So. Main St. The Gift Store GIFT BOOKS for Your Children Have our juvenile expert suggest gift book titles for your boys' and girls' Christmas. Only the literary and the wholesome has place in our Books for Children. Call and look them over or write for free list of titles and prices.. Choose Your Christmas Greeting Cards Here Deseret Book Company Glazier and Taylor HOSIERY COMPANY 33 EAST BROADWAY A Store Dealing in Quality Hosiery and Underwear Exclusively Heavy Silk Full-Fashioned, all colors A wonderful hose for wear Per Pair $2.00 Box of Three Pairs. $5.75 Silk Semi-Fashioned, all colors, beautiful and durable Per Pair $1.50 Box of Three Pairs.. $4.25 Silk with Extra Stretch Elastic Top, the Comfort Stocking Fer Pair $1.50 Box of Three Pairs $4.25 Pure Silk, Semi-Fashioned, very durable Per Pair., $1.00 Box of Three Pairs $2.85 MAIL ORDERS PREPAID 44 East on South Temple Salt Lake City All Colors THE use to which you put Olive Oil demands. Absolute pure. A fact that accounts for the wide preferency for the superior Blue Pine Brand. Made only of the ripe French Olives, refined, pure and sweet. Sealed in air-tight | containers that preserve all | its purity and freshness. Widely approved for sacred use. BLUE PINE products Mention Relief Society Magazine