Manifestation to Mrs. Mary Hyde Woolf By Zina Y?.. Card Mrs. Woolf was a Canadian Pioneer who lived in Cardston many years. In 1914, she came down to the Latter-day Saints Hospital for a serious operation, and after it was over her life was despaired of. She rallied, however, and for twenty-four hours felt much better. One night, after a sweet sleep, she became very restless and knew that her spirit was passing away from her body. After the spirit withdrew from the body she saw a Guide by her side who said to her, "Come with me." They traveled into far places and came repeatedly to spheres, some of which seemed very dark and then, as it were, they began to have twilight surrounding them. Through the semi-twilight she could see groups of people, many of whom bowed to her as she passed with glad reverence and respect. All were busy, but the people in the different places would bow to her as she passed by. Sometimes they were so engaged that they took no notice of her. As they rose upward from sphere to sphere, which grew lighter and more beautiful, they passed glorious mansions and spacious grounds, at length they came to a broad road bordered with trees. Through the openings of these trees came groups of people mostly women who stood respectfully some distance away with hands folded on their breasts as they bowed to her in passing. After she and her guide drew near what seemed to be the end of the road a larger group of women awaited her coming. These hastened toward her and met her with open arms and smiling faces. In an ecstasy of joy they held her as their friend and Savior. She felt. She could never depart from them so great was her happiness. The guide read her thoughts and said, "You must return for a brief season." Reluctantly, she turned away to obey the messenger. As they took their departure she turned to the guide and asked him, who were the beings that met her and did not approach her? He replied, "These are your kindred still in prison." "And who were those," she asked, "who came close to me and bowed reverently but still did not offer to speak or reach out their hands?" "These are they," he replied, "whose names you have re- MANIFESTATION TO MRS. WOOLF. 493 corded in your book and they rejoice at the prospects of their deliverance but their work in the temple has not been done." "And those who embraced me?" she asked. "They are those," he replied, "who have received at your hands all of the ordinances in the house of the Lord, and you beheld their joy. She returned to the earth with her guide and took up her work for a little season, but passed away a little while ago, and one wonders if her kindred will remember the work which she - charged them to do. Individual Sacrament Sets Now in Stock Best in the Market WILL "LAST A LIFE TIME?
 REFERENCES FURNISHED Made especially for L. D. S. Churches, and successfully used in Utah and Inter-mountain region, also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific Islands. Basic metal, Nickel Silver, heavily plated with Solid Silver. SIMPLE, SANITARY, DURABLE Satisfaction guaranteed. Inquiries cheerfully answered THE LATEST ACKNOWLEDGMENT. Bishop's Office, Bern, Idaho, May 2, 1921. "I am in receipt of the Individual Sacrament Set, consisting of four trays and the proper number of glasses. "Everything arrived in good condition. We are very pleased with it. I take this oceasion to thank you for your kindness." Bureau of Information Temple Block Salt Lake City Going to Entertain at Dinner? Let us enter your order and deliver it in a manner that will cause you to also give us your future orders?daily. "DICKINSON'S" The Quality Service Store. CHOICE MEATS AND FANCY GROCERIES. We are in step with the declining Market. CAPITOL COAL COMPANY Successors to Fischer-Kittle Coal Company Phones Was. 2328-2329 305 SOUTH MAIN STREET Announcing a new name with the same old QUALITY and SERVICE. Dealers in Utah's Best Coals, Coke and Kindling NOTICE The Relief Society Magazine Office is desirous of securing the following Magazines of 1915, 1916, 1917, 1919 and 1920. If you have them please notify us by postcard and tell us how many of the copies you have. June, 1915 August, 1916 July, 1915 September, 1917 August, 1915 November, 1919 September, 1915 March, 1919 December, 1915 March, 1920 We will pay 20c per copy for any of the alte Only perfect copies will be accepted. Write to:; 
 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City, Utah 680 East 2nd South Street. W. R. McDONALD, Pres. Hyland 60. D. H. CANNON Mgr. Over 1,000 New Readers Every Month for the Past Ten Months One of the reasons is our Wonderful New Pictorial Supplement. Have you seen it? Dependable The Deseret ews Progressive The Utah State National Bank The officers ue always glad to meet customers and discuss business plans with thera. Officers Heser J. Grant, President. Cartes W. Niscey, Vice-President. Cuas. S. Burton, Vice-President. Henry T. McEwan, V.-Pres. & Cashier. Alvin C. Strone, Assistant Cashier. Joun W. James, Asst. Cashier. ?' The Relief Society Magazine office has on hand the following BOUND VOLUMES OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of which they will be glad to dispose at the prices quoted below: 12 Vols. Of 1915, Cloth Bound $1.75 1 Vol. Of 1918, Leather Bound 2.00 2 Vols of 1919, Cloth Bound 2.75 1 Vol. Of 1919, Leather Bound 3.00 6 Vols. Of 1920, Cloth Bound 2.75 10 Vols. Of 1920, Leather B'd 3.00 l5c Extra for Postage All orders should be addressed to the Relief Society Magazine, Room 29, Bishops Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah. Bound volumes of the Magazine make appropriate gifts. Keeley?s Ice Ceram For the ?Good old Summer time? DELIVERED EVERYWHERE P.O. Box 1713 Salt Lake City Phone Was. 
 O. Box 1713 Salt Lake City Watch for Our New "Mountaineer" Strong Seam Overalls, Auto Suits Kiddies Allovers For Boys, Youths and Men?they den't rip; wear like leather. Have You Received Your Copy? Send for the special circular published by the Utah Agricultural College outlining the comprehensive work offered in education and pedagogy, with emphasis on training for the rural teachers. It will tell you the wonderful opportunities open to you at the College when the Fall Quarter begins, Monday, September 12. At the same time, send for the 1921-22 General Catalog and the beautiful illustrated circular issued by the Institution. Address, The President's Office, Utah Agricultural College, Logan, Utah. FALL QUARTER OPENS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 12 The Utah Agricultural College The Home of Efficient Education LOGAN, UTAH A PHOTOGRAPH Is a suitable gift for almost any occasion. It speaks a universal language?a language understood by everybody. Whether it conveys a message of love or friendship, it tells it more effectively than a written letter. Of course, to do this it has to be a "Speaking Likeness"?the kind they make at Lumiere Studio Phone Was. 2861 6 Main St., Salt Lake ? ORGAN OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTEA-DAY SAINTS Soom 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year?Single Copy, 10c. Canada and Foreign, $1.25 a Year?I5c Single Copy.