[Vol9 | July 1922 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: Peace Rebecca F. Lewis]
Peace 
Miss  Rebecca  F.  Lewis 
Give  me  the  shade  of  the  whispering  pines. 
The  stillness   and  solitude  of  nature  that  binds. 
Give  me  the  path  that  is  covered  with  leaves, 
And  the  many  mysterious  spells  that  it  weaves. 
Give  me  the  place  that  man  has  not  spoiled, 
Where  only  the  wild  things  that  love  it  have  toiled. 
Give  me  the  tiny  blue  lake  and  brown  sod", 
And  leave  me  alone  with  nature  and  God.

The  General  Procession 
James  H.  Anderson 
Freight  rates  in  the  United  States  were  ordered'  reduced  on 
July  1st. 
Italians  and  Arabs  engaged  in  open  warfare  in  Thipoli,  North 
Africa,  in  May. 
V.  Ralando  Ricci,  Italian  ambassador  to  the  United  States, 
visited  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  May  18. 
Storms  and  floods  In  the  United  States  in  May,  did  immense 
damage,  with  some  loss  of  life. 
Lewis  W.  Shurtliff,  of  Ogden,  a  prominent  Utah  pioneer  and 
Church  worker,  died  on  May  2nd. 
Hottentots  in  Africa  rebelled  against  Great  Britain  in  May, 
but  soon  were  suppressed. 
In  riots  against  the  French,  in  Damascus,  Syria,  in  May, 
nearly  100  persons  were  killed,  and  hundreds  wounded. 
Russia  and  Germany  made  a  treaty  in  May,  for  economic, 
and  in  certain  emergencies,  for  military  purposes. 
Germany's  representatives  at  the  Genoa  conference  complain 
that  they  were  insulted  by  the  conference. 
Statistics   sliow  that  the   average   Frenchman   smokes   five 
cigarettes   a   day  less  than   the   average   American. 
The  League  of  Nations  council  was  asked  in  May  to  take  up 
the  Russian  and  Albanian  problems,  but  refused. 
In  Chicago,  Ills.,  in  May,  the  chief  labor  union  leaders 
there  were  indicted  for  the  murder  of  policemen  on  duty. 
In  the  New  York  post  office,  in  May,  forty  former  criminals 
who  had  taken  civil  service  examinations  and  obtained  employment 
there  were  detected  in  a  conspiracy  for  wholesale  robbery  of  the 
postoffice.