[Vol9 | July 1922 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: Your Thirty Slaves]

Your Thirty Slaves Take away all our machinery and steam and electrical power, and it would require 3,000,000,000 hard-working slaves to duplicate the work done by Americans. The use of power and machinery gives to every man, woman, and child in our country the equivalent of 30 slaves. This is figured out in the latest bulletin of the Smithsonian Institution. Why envy the nobleman, back in ancient Egypt or Bagdad, with 30 slaves toiling for him? He had swift-running slaves bring him fish from the ocean and bird tongues from the mountains. Today, w: th a few dimes, you can get a tin can of shrimp brought from Japan, a package of dates from Syria, a bag of nuts from Brazil, sardines from Norway. Your slaves?machinery and power?bring them. For a few cents you can buy enough matches to start 1000 fires. When the ancient nobleman's fire was doused by the rain he shivered in the cold until slaves made a blaze by friction or brought firebrands from afar.. Plenty of old settlers, now living, can recall the days before matches, when they ran a mile from the nearest neighbor's with a shovelful of blazing coals. Your real wealth is measured, not in money, but in the number of things you obtain to eat and wear, the ease with which you get them, the comforts and conven'ences of your home, metheds of transportation and amusement. It is only a few centuries since even the richest kings had no sewers, running water, rapid transportation, or any of the commonplace things that brighten the lives of all today. Each year adds to our comforts and conveniences. A few years ago only the richest men in town had autos. Now there's an attto for every twelve Americans. Henry Ford is experimenting with a mixture of glue, cotton and formaldehyde. He expects to make a powerful building material out of these. If he succeeds, he'll stamp flivvers out like doughnuts. That seems like a dream. But it is merely typical of the processes of mass production that have given the average person luxuries that were denied kings of antiquity. Measured in ancient standards, we are all kings today, with the slaves of electricity, steam and machinery toiling constantly for us.?Haverhill Gazette.