[Vol9 | July 1922 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: Ann and Her Husband]

Ann and Her Husband Anon As the heavily loaded freight wagon stopped at the big gate, two spindle-legged girls with wrinkled stockings, flying hair, and ragged aprons came running out of the two-roomed cabin, to open it. As they approached they both began talking at once. "Oh, pa," shouted the older one, "Billy Moon was over today and gave me a ride on his new pony.', "An' he give me a ride, too. My, but it was fun," added the other. The sagging gate swung back, and the man drove. His shining bay team through. Joe Martin was especially proud of his horses; indeed, some said he was more proud of his team than he was of his children; and perhaps it was true, for while his horses were well fed and cared for, his children always looked half starved and beggarly. Joe was a good provider, but somehow they never seemed to have anything. He himself was a large, heavy-set man, with dark hair and a heavy black beard. Some said the reason he was so fat was because he was always freighting, and seldom had to eat at home. His clothes sagged on his huge frame and the holes in his overalls were drawn together with sack twine. Once a comrade of the freight road had noticed him pull off his shoe to find the foot of his sock worn out, but this did not trouble Joe. Evidently he was used to such things, for he merely took a string from his pocket and tied it around the top of the sock and put it on up-side-down. The wagon stopped in front of the house, and a woman, with three small children hanging to her dress, came through the door. "Hello, pa," she saluted, "so you made the trip all right. My but that was an awful rain." "Yeh," he responded, "but we finally got through." Joe sprang to the ground and began unhitching his team while Ann and the children chattered away, telling him the news and all that had happened since he left a week ago, and while he was at the barn the children climbed the muddy wheels to the top of the wagon and began inspecting the load. "Oh, ma," called Florence, the older girl, "here's a bunch of radishes. Pa must a' knowed we couldn't find our seed to plant." And tossing them to the ground she continued her exploration, while the smaller ones began to devour them. "Ah, kids," remonstrated Ann, "don't eat too many of them  raw things or you'll be sick, an' besides we want some for supper," but they paid little heed and when supper was served there was three solitary radishes to place upon the table. "T'm sorry we had to have such bad bread," apologized Ann, "but while I went over to see Sarah Jones about gettin' some duck eggs to set, the kids let the fire go out, but we got butter and fried potatoes and them canned peaches, and we would a' had radishes but the kids et 'em all before supper," she paused and looked at each guilty face. "Pa," she added, "I guess you'll have to take? Em in hand." There was an audible grunt from behind the big newspaper, and nothing further happened to disturb the meal, which proceeded in the usual way, with Wendell, the five-year-old boy, standing up in his chair and reaching across the table for a piece of yellow bread, which stuck to his fingers as he spread it generously with butter, then he carefully licked the knife that none might"be wasted. Jenny, who was almost seven, bumped Florence's arm and made her spill the cup of milk she was about to drink, Numerous other little accidents happened, but the meal proceeded until Pa pushed back his chair and again took up his paper, and Ma began gathering up the dishes and stacked them away for morning. Then, picking up a magazine, in which was an interesting story, Ma placidly sat down to enjoy it, while the children were left to do as they pleased, which they usually did anyway. The younger ones fell into the nearest corner and went to sleep while the older ones ran out into the yard and began yelling like young Indians, until Joe laid aside his paper, stretched, yawned and said in his easy-going voice: "Well, Ma, I guess it's aboutbed time. I got an awful headache. I don't know, what's the matter, but I feel sick all over." a "T hope you ain't comin' down with no disease," responded Ann, and rising, called in the children from their play wha retired to their unmade beds. The next morning Joe was not able to rise. He had been chilling all through the night, and now he had a burning fever. Ann was alarmed and immediately called a neighbor who was a sharp-tongued old nurse. When she arrived she carefully exam-: ined the patient, and looked very grave as she said: '"Searlet: fever, you must be very careful to let no one in." * eis se What little color Ann had in her face left it. She had had' scarlet fever when she was a child but none of her family had. What if they all got it now? At the door-the nurse turned, "Mrs. Martin," she said, " your children are not very strong, owing to conditions under which they live. If you care anything for them you will not only give them  nourishing food but you will take care to keep yourself, your family, and your house neater and cleaner than you do. Living the way you do shows pcsitive shiftlessness. Good-morning, sister, I hope you will take no offense." Ann was stunned; she closed the door and stared about her On the table, with the flies swarming over them, stood the unwashed supper and breakfast dishes; in every corner of the room and heaped on chairs were soiled and cast off clothing; the windows were dirty and the floor looked like it had never seen water and a scrubbing brush. She moved into the adjoining room. On the bed lay her husband, burning with fever, his face unshaven, his hair was a tangled mass and the hands that lay on the soiled and ragged covers were hard and dirtv. Then her eyes began traveling about. It was the same as the other room. Suddenly she caught a glimpse of herself in the scratched and broken mirror; she had seen the same image there before but it had never looked quite the same. The slim little woman was clad in a faded, flimsy, blue wrapper, her shoulders were slightly stooped, the blond hair showed signs of neglect as it straggled about her face and ears, and in the. Blue eyes was a far-away, hazy expression. Then remembering the nurse's words, Ann turned and again looked at the man on the bed. He had fallen into a restless slumber and she could hear him muttering half audible phrases. "Was this all her fault?" she asked herself. Then she thought over the past years of her married life and was forced to answer "Ves," Her eyes were bright now and her shoulders square as, turning, she went into the kitchen. There was no lack of energy as she lighted the fire, heated some water and attacked the dishes. It was amazing where so many dishes came from, they were everywhere and some had stood so long they had to be soaked in strong lye water before they could be cleaned. A flush of shame spread over Ann's face. Why had she been so neglectful? But, thank heaven, for the awakening. With the same energy she attacked the floors and windows, until the whole house shone. Then she began on her family. A snirit of hominess crept in that had never been felt before, and but for the menacing disease thev would have been perfectly happy. Scarlet fever was not to be laughed at. And the little woman, watching anxiouslv bv the beds of her loved ones, was haunted by the constant fear that some might be Jost. Di There are no more untidy corners in the house now. Everythine was 'n perfect order. Her husband lived. Ann Martin bed learned her lesson.