[Vol9 | July 1922 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons for September - Lesson II Work and Business]
GUIDE  LESSONS  393 
Latter-day  Saint  parents  in  regard  to  having  their  children  blessed. 
See  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  Section  20 :  70.  This  is  more  than  a 
privilege,  it  is  a  duty  brought  into  prominence  by  a  divine  com- 
mand. It  is  the  birthright  of  our  children  to  be  blest  in  infancy, 
and  who  can  afford  to  throw  that  birthright  into  the  waste  basket 
of  neglect.  Looking  after  the  birthrights  of  our  children  is  build- 
ing for  them  a  fortress  of  faith,  hope  and  love,  from  the  top  of 
which  they  will  stand  and  call  us  blessed.  Providing  for  the  birth 
of  children,  the  blessing  of  children  and  the  training  of  children 
are  three  ways  of  complying  with  the  call  of  the  Savior,  "Suffer 
little  children  to  come  unto  me."  And  moreover,  parents  are  com- 
forted by  the  knowledge  that  the  child  has  been  officially  placed 
in  line  with  those  entitled  to  the  special  guardianship  of  the 
angels  ;  thus,  through  the  blessings  of  children  are  the  heavens  and 
the  earth  officially  united  in  the  performance  of  a  most  sacred 
trust,  the  training  of  a  child. 
The  "Babe  of  Bethlehem"  may  not  have  needed  the  blessings 
in  the  temple,  any  more  than  the  "Man  of  Galilee"  needed  to  be 
baptized  in  Jordan,  but  both  events  were  made  a  part  of  that  ideal 
^'fe  in  which  "all  righteousness"  is  fulfilled.  Who  shall  say 
that  Mary  did  not  talk  to  the  Boy  of  Nazareth  of  his  childhood 
Messing.  From  his  reply  to  his  mother,  at  twellve  years  of  age.  it 
would  seem  that  he  had  learned  who  his  Father  was,  and  why 
not  from  the  lips  of  her  at  whose  knees  he  prayed  and  under  whose 
tutorship  he  became  learned  in  the  scriptures.  Little  wonder  that 
the  Redeemer  of  a  world  was  "subject  to  his  parents"  and  so  ten- 
derly solig'tous  for  the  comfort  of  her  who  saw  to  it  that  no 
holy  ordinance  link  in  his  childhood  life  was  left  unwelded. 
Patriarchal  Blcssingss  The  first  patriarchal  blessing  was 
given  by  the  Father  of  the  Human  Family,  at  Adam-Ondi-Ahman. 
The  event  was  one  in  which  humanity  and  divinity  together  took 
part  and  rejoiced.  Earth  and  heaven  were  brought  together  by 
Adam  pronouncing  blessings  on  his  posterity  and  the  Fatlier  of 
'^11  o'iving  his  blessing  to  the  Pai^riarch  of  the  race.  See  Doctrine 
and  Covenants,  Section  107:53-56. 
The  privilege  of  obtairt'ng  patriarchal  blessings  in  youth  has 
not  been  as  general  in  former  dispensations  as  in  the  Dispensation 
of  the  Fulness  of  Times.  The  blessing  of  the  two  sons  of  Joseph 
seems  to  be  an  exception.  So  important  were  the  patriarchal 
blessings  given  by  the  First  Israelite  that  the  pronouncements 
were  made  an  important  matter  of  historical  reference  among 
God's  chosen  people,  and  are  a  part  of  our  scripture.  Se^  Genesis 
49. 
Brother  Maeser  expressed  the  idea  that  "our  patriarchal  bless- 
ings are  paragraphs  from  the  book  of  our  fore-ordination,"  and  the

394  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE 
thought  seems  consistent  with  our  belief  in  pre-existence  and  the 
object  of  earth-life  as  a  mission.  We  all  desire  strength  to  resist 
evil,  and  for  it  we  pray  rather  than  for  immunity  from  temptation, 
and  patriarchal  blessings  are  declared  by  the  highest  authority 
to  be  a  source  of  strength  in  hours  of  trial.  See  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  Section  124:  124. 
The  provisions  of  patriarchal  blessings  are  sacred  and  should 
not  be  paraded,  neither  should  they  be  permitted  to  pass  into 
forgetfulness.  Each  promise  is  accompanied  by  responsibility, 
and  its  fulfilment  depends  upon  both  parties  to  the  sacred  con- 
tract. Man  alone  cannot  bring  it  to  pass,  nor  will  the  Lord  ful- 
fil without  the  willingness  and  work  of  man,  and  if  our  blessings 
seem  delayed,  or  the  promises  made  are  not  fulfilled,  we  may  rest 
assured  that  the  fault  is  not  in  the  pronouncement. 
5  :     Temple  Blessings  : 
The  blessings  of  the  temple  have  come  to  us  as  a  part  of  the 
"marvelous  work  m\'4  ci  zaomder."  They  are  the  cooperative 
results    of  heaven  and  earth  activities. 
Under  divine  direction  the  Saints  built  a  temple  in  the  midst 
of  poverty  and  persecution,  and  that  temple  was  the  scene  of  enact- 
ments that  have  been  moving  heaven  and  earth  dver  since.  See 
^octrine  and  Covenants,  Sections  2  and  110. 
The  following  question  was  put  to  the  students  in  the  twenty- 
seven  Latter-day  Saint  h"gh  school  seminaries.  "Of  what  use 
will  be  a  temple  to  you?"  The  greater  number  of  answers  were 
"To  get  married  in."  Some  of  the  others  were,  "To  do  work  for 
the  dead  ;"  others,  "To  help  me  to  live  the  better  life."  A  negligible 
number  answered :  "No  use  at  all,"  and  of  this  group  were  four 
of  the  race  not  entitled  to  the  blessing  of  the  Priesthood. 
The  result  of  the  survey  is  full  of  hope  and  encouragenitn;:, 
but  there  is  in  it  a  tinge  of  pathetic  warning. 
The  law  of  decline  claims  its  own ;  there  is  no  escape  ffGii:  the 
truth ;  neglect,  then  disrespect,  then  loss. 
QUESTIONS   AND  PKOBLElMS 
1.  Quote  the  divine  requirement  in  regard  to  having  children 
blessed. 
2.  Prove  scripturally  that  a  blessing  given  by  men  appointed  to 
bless  is  just  as  effective  as  if  the  Lord  himself  pronounced  the 
blessing. 
3.  Name  two  advantages  coming  to  the  child  through  being 
blessed. 
4.  In  what  respect  is  neglecting  to  have  children  blessed  robbing 
them  of  their  birthright?

GUIDE  LESSONS  395 
5.  What  special  advantage  comes  through  having  a  patriarchal 
blessing. 
6.  How  may  patriarchal  blessings  be  made  to  help  parents  to  get 
close  to  the  hearts  of  their  young  folks  ? 
7.  Show  how  an  interest  in  Adam-Ondi-Ahman  may  lead  to  an 
interest  in  patriarchal  blessings. 
8.  What  official  messengers  from  heaven  were  in  attendance  at 
the  dedication  of  the  Kirtland  temple  and  what  was  the  spe- 
cial mission  of  each? 
9.  Show  that  children's  blessings  and  patriarchal  blessings  pave 
the  way  for  a  desire  for  temple  blessings. 
LESSON   II. 
Work  and  Business. 
(Second  Week  in  September) 
LESSON  III. 
Literature. 
(Third  Week  in  September) 
For  Tuesday,  September  19,  use  Literary  Lesson  published 
in  the  April  number  of  the  Magazine — subject,  John  Jaques  and 
his  writings.  This  lesson  was  held  over  until  September  in  order 
that  Tuesday,  June  20,  might  be  used  for  Law  Enforcement 
program. 
LESSON  V] 
Social  Service 
(Fourth  Week  in  September) 
MORAL  LEADERSHIP  IN  THE  HOME   (Continued) 
A  child  is  by  nature  neither  morally  good  nor  bad.  He  is 
simply  non-moral.  We  neither  praise  nor  condemn  him  for  ten- 
dencies that  are  purely  instinctive.  God  has  planted  within  the 
soul  of  every  normal  child  certain  tendencies.  We  call  these 
tendencies  instincts.  They  constitute  the  raw  material  out  of 
which  moral  habits  and  sentiments  are  developed. 
The  most  important  of  these  instincts  are :  ( 1 )  The  instinct 
to  fight,  the  pugnacious  instinct.  (2)  The  instinct  to  seek  human 
associations  or  the  gregarious  instinct.  (3)  The  instinct 
of  self-display  and  its  opposite,  the  instinct  of  self-subjection.    (4)

396  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE 
The  instinct  to  get  possession  of  things,  acquisitiveness.  (5)  The 
instinct  to  build,  the  constructive  instinct.  All  of  these  are  useful 
for  the  preservation  of  the  life  of  the  individual  as  well  as  for  the 
preservation  of  the  human  race. 
THE  BOY  WHO  FIGHTS 
The  child  who  never  fights  is  not  a  normal  child.  God  has 
l-lanted  within  the  life  of  every  normal  human  being  the  tendency 
to  protect  himself  and  to  secure  his  place  among  his  associates. 
This  individual  dignity  or  self-respect  is  essential  to  the  welfare 
of  the  child  as  well  as  that  of  the  man.  It  becomes  an  evil  only 
when  it  is  carried  too  far,  or  when  it  is  left  unchecked  and  un- 
directed by  other  tendencies  or  by  intelligence.  What  parents 
need  to  do  is  to  find  opportunity  for  this  tendency  to  express 
itself  in  useful  ways.  Healthy  children  should  be  encouraged 
to  express  their  fighting  instincts  in  different  forms  of  competi- 
tion; running  races,  wrestling,  boxing,  jumping,  and  in  mental 
games.  Strong  bodies  and  strong  minds  are  the  result  of  such 
competitive  actvities.  We  make  out  of  the  fighting  instincts  not 
bullies  or  champion  fighters,  but  efficient  men  who  can  fight 
obstacles,  master  environment,  compete  with  opponents  in  busi- 
ness, in  law,  in  politics,  not  by  using  foul  methods  but  by  energy 
and  skill  and  by  observing  the  rules  of  the  game. 
THE  TENDENCY  TO  BE  WITH  THE  CROWD 
The  child  is  a  social  being.  He  can  not  stand  to  be  alone. 
He  must  have  playmates,  gangs,  clubs,  societies,  whatever  the 
form  of  the  association  may  be.  If  the  child  cannot  find  good 
companionship  he  will  find  those  that  are  not  g'ood.  He  needs 
associates  to  develop  his  powers.  He  will  never  learn  to  cooperate 
with  others  until  he  has  been  trained  to  do  so  in  contact  with  his 
fellow  creatures.  One  reason  why  we  have  failed  in  our  great 
associated  life  to  do  good  team  work  is  the  fact  that  we  halve  not 
been  properly  trained  as  children  in  our  simple  associated  life. 
But  we  must  bear  in  mine!  that  it  is  not  simple  association  that 
is  needed,  it  is  association  of  the  right  kind  and  under  proper  con- 
ditions and  leadership.  What  parents  need  to  do  is  to  study  the 
associates  of  their  children,  provide  them  with  proper  companions 
if  they  do  not  have  them,  and  render  assistance  in  the  organization 
and  direction  of  all  of  their  group  activities.  The  great  moral 
problem  is  that  of  living  peacefully  and  successfully  together. 
THE  INSTINCT  OF  SELF-DISPLAY 
Not  all  the  little  annoyances  which  the  child  forces  into  the 
lives  of  parents  are  accompanied  by  the  motive  to  disturb.     A

GUIDE  LESSONS  397 
child  likes  to  receive  attention,  and  in  this  respect  he  is  not  entirely 
different  from  the  adult  members  of  the  family.  If  his  ordinary 
good  conduct  does  not  attract  attention  he  may  break  over  some  of 
the  rules  of  the  household  and  create  excitement.  And  to  be  sure, 
his  saying  a  bad  word,  or  jumping,  or  shouting,  or  saying  "no" 
when  his  parents  want  him  to  say  "yes"  is  not  always  followed  by 
unanimous  disapproval  by  other  members  of  the  group.  Father 
and  mother  may  reprove  and  punish  but  too  often  other  members 
of  the.  family  are  agreeably  entertained.  The  child  must  have  his 
share  of  the  attention  of  the  family  group  and  if  the  good  things 
that  he  does  do  not  get  that  attention  he  will  compel  attention 
in  other  ways. 
THE   COLLECTIVE  INSTINCT 
The  strong  desire  in  the  lives  of  adult  men  and  women  to 
acquire  property,  sometimes  by  theft  and  by  other  unfair  means, 
is  driven  forward  by  the  same  instinct  w,hich  actuates  the  little 
child  when  he  fills  his  pockets  with  rocks,  bags,  strings,  nails,  and 
when  he  makes  any  sort  of  accumulation  which  he  calls  his  own. 
This  desire  to  accumulate  things  is  not  bad  in  itself,  it  becomes  bad 
if  it  is  undirected  by  matured  individuals.  Stealing  is  nothing 
more  than  the  misdirection  of  the  collective  instinct.  If  we  are  to 
develop  honesty  in  the  lives  of  children  we  must  very  early  in  life 
teach  children  the  relation  between  possession  and  the  right  to 
possess.  We  must  teach  them  that  ownership  is  based  upon  some 
sort  of  useful  effort. 
CONSTRUCTIVE  AND  DESTRUCTIVE  INSTINCTS 
To  build  up  and  to  tear  down  is  as  fundamental  in  human 
nature  as  any  other  of  the  native  tendencies.  If  the  child  pulls 
the  chairs  in  the  room  out  of  their  places  and  builds  a  house  his 
motive  is  not  to  annoy  mother  but  to  build,  to  construct.  He  does 
not  know  its  full  meaning.  We  know  that  it  is  nature's  method  of 
preparing  the  child  for  a  life  of  usefulness  in  society. 
If  he  breaks  up  his  little  toys  it  may  be  for  the  purpose  of 
discovering  Vv^hat  is  inside  of  them.  The  great  force  of  curiosity 
is  expressing  itself.  Normal  children  are  active  children.  Mor- 
ally good  children  are  children  whose  activities  are  properly 
directed.  The  reason  so  many  of  our  children  do  wrong  is  be- 
cause there  is  nothing  for  them  to  do.  The  child's  paradise  is  a 
place  where  he  can  express  the  many  God  given  tendencies 
and  do  this  without  constantly  hearing  the  awful  words  "Don't! 
Stop !  Be  still !"  A  little  boy  on  being  asked  what  he  wanted  for 
his  birthday,  replied :  "I  want  to  be  le.t  alone  for  one  day."