[Vol7 | April 1920 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Regarding Salvation for the Dead]

Regarding Salvation For the Dead James W. Lesueur, President of Maricopa Stake. The Latter-day Saints are making a sacrifice in gathering genealogy, building temples and doing a vicarious work in these holy temples, with the firm belief that some one in the other world is carrying the gospel message to relatives and friends who have died without a testimony or a knowledge of the truth. Many of these relatives and friends are accepting the message. In order that the work of the Saints in the temples shall be efficacious, the earthly ordinances such as baptism, confirmation, sealing, anointing, ordinations, marriages for eternity, and the sealing of children to their parents, are beneficial and effective, for those only who have accepted of the gospel, though they live in the spirit world. I have a firm testimony that this preaching of the gospel is being carried on by faithful missionaries, both men and women, who have been faithful upon the earth and qualified themselves to be ambassadors of salvation for those who have died without a knowledge of the truth. Let me give an experience of mine which has been a testimony to me. In January, 1898, I left for a mission to Great Britain and. passing on through Provo, visited with my brother, Frank, who was attending the B. Y. U. When we parted we held each others' hands and pledged that we would do our part in furthering the Lord's work, and that I would gather genealogy on my mission, and that we would work together for the salvation of our dead relatives. I had been twenty-seven months in the missionary field, and had gathered thousands of the names of my dead kindred, when I receive a cablegram from the president of the mission which read, "Released. Outlaws killed Frank." For a short time this seemingly terrible blow nearly crushed me, and I asked the elders who were present to pray for me. Each addressed a short prayer to the Lord in my behalf, and then I prayed and told the Lord I did not know why he should take my brother, but if it was his will, not my will, be done, but the will of my Father in heaven. While praying. I heard a voice above say: "Your brother is called for a similar purpose as was President Woodruff's son." I remembered having read of President Woodruff losing a favorite son by drowning in Bear river, and asking the Lord why this son should be taken, and the angel of the Lord asked President Woodruff which of all his sons he would like to have in charge of missionary work among his relatives in the spirit 
 world, and President Woodruff answered, giving the name of this son who was drowned. So that it was made plain to me that my brother was called to take charge of missionary work among my relatives beyond the veil. He was also my choice. I know of no one who would be better fitted for this work. He had been called upon a mission, after having spent several years in the Brigham Young Academy, and a good deal of home study, preparing for a foreign mission. The exact date of leaving had not been assigned by the First Presidency. He was prepared also with a wonderful personality that drew around him many friends and was a general favorite in the community among all classes of people and would make a wonderful missionary. I returned home from Europe to find my father and mother heart-broken, and I, too, was very lonely not to find my choicest companion there. My mother was visited by my brother one night when he told her that he had been called to fill a long-felt want. My father and I went into the mountains, where we had our sheep interests, and where my brother had been in charge at the time of his death. It was the first visit there, so shortly after my brother's death, and I felt that he was there. Before retiring, at night, I went out a short distance from the camp and knelt down under the pines and prayed to the Lord to let me see him, as I felt that he was near. I arose from prayer with a firm belief that I would see him, and returned to the camp and retired. Shortly after lying down, and while thinking of my brother, my spirit left my body and I saw my body and my father lying in the bed, and by my side a personage dressed in robes of white whom I understood to be my guardian angel. I went with him, traveling like lightning, a great distance, in a very few moments, and came into a great city which I understood to be a city containing those who had died without receiving the gospel. In the midst of this city stood a large building, plain but beautiful, covering an entire block several stories high. My guardian angel said to me, "We are going in here," and we entered a side door which had been opened by a young lady who gave a bow and smile of welcome. The thought came into my mind, who is this young lady? And my guardian angel said: "She is your relative who was killed while upon the earth, and she is now doing work with your relatives who have died without a knowledge of the gospel, and these people in this room are relatives of yours to whom the gospel is being preached." I looked around the large room and estimated that there were as many people in that room as could find room in the Salt Lake tabernacle. Presently, I heard someone speaking, and listened to a sermon on the first principles of the gos- ALVATION FOR THE DEAD 20l pel, and I thought how similar to sermons of the missionaries out in the fields, until he came to the treatment of the necessity of baptism. He then explained that inasmuch as they had died without the opportunity of baptism, that it was necessary that this ordinance should be performed by someone living upon the earth who would attend to it for them. He also explained that confirmation would follow in order to confer the Holy Ghost, which also would be done vicariously by a living proxy. When he had completed his sermon he turned and looked at me, and I beheld that it was my brother, Frank, who had been killed by outlaws. He had such a smile of happiness upon his face that the thought came to me, "Oh, if I can but live so that I can be worthy to do the work that my brother is doing, and have the joy in service such as he is having, I would be willing to make any sacrifice that I was called upon to make by the Lord." Standing by his side was a young lady of medium height, rather round features, and large beautiful eyes, and as I thought, who is the young lady? my guardian. angel said to me: "The young lady is to be his wife." We then passed into other rooms in this great building and I saw people in different stages of intelligence. I was informed by my guardian angel that I could go back to my body, and we made the return trip together. We came into the camp and I saw the great pines and the sheep, and my father's body and my own lying upon the bed, and my guardian angel smiled, and, in a moment, my spirit again entered my body and I sat up and awoke my father and told him of my experience. Five years prior to this the Patriarch John Smith laid his hands upon my head and gave me a blessing which, among other good things, contained these words: "At the touch of thy guardian angel, thy spirit vision shall be quickened, thou shalt look beyond this world into a world of spirits, and commune with thy dead for their redemption. This visit was a fulfilment to the promise of the patriarch. Since that time, I have had a desire to gather genealogy and in connection with relatives, particularly my Aunt Mary Ann Fackrell and Cousin Ella J. Ingles, have done work for thousands of my relatives. When the Arizona temple is built, and war clouds are all over, I desire to visit Europe again, where I can secure thousands of more names of relatives, and hope to do work for them. The young lady who was standing at the entrance to welcome us was a person I had never met, nor had I heard that any of my female relatives had been killed. When I described her to my mother, she told me that she was one of my cousins by the name of Odekirk who had been thrown off a horse. Her foot had caught in the stirrup and she was dragged sev- 
 eral blocks, and when the horse was stopped she was dead. My mother said she was one of the best young ladies she ever knew, with a firm testimony of the gospel. Now, regarding the young lady who was to be my brother's wife. That was another thing I could not understand, until two or three months after his death. A Mrs. Kemp, of Concho, Arizona, came and asked for the privilege of having her daughter, who had recently died, sealed to my brother, Frank. They had kept company at Provo, and it was her dying wish that she be sealed to Frank. And when I saw her picture, I recognized in her the young lady who was standing by my brother's side. All this evidence has given me to understand that it was a vision in reality, and a testimony to me that the work of salvation for the dead is being carried on, under the supervision of the Lord, by holy men and women who have lived upon the earth, and the work that we are doing in our holy temples is indeed the work of the Lord, to bring about their salvation. Those engaged in this splendid work are saviors on Mount Zion. THE GOSPEL OF BEAUTY. Alice Merrill Horne. Since the First Vision of the Prophet Joseph, America has given to the world its greatest artist in James McNeill Whistler. He created an art more subtle than that of any master of painting known to sacred or profane history. America has also produced a hundred celebrated artists, beginning with George Inness, Augustus St. Gaudens and Olin Warner. Utah herself has M. M. Young on the first line in art, among a few other great Americans. We are already hearing from a dozen devotees who are bringing fame to themselves and honor to our state. If God spoke to Emma Smith concerning music and art, should not we, the recipients of benefits, from that "turning of the key" be glad to preach the Gospel of beauty? Eliza R. Snow heard the music and sang. She blessed me with a message of what I should do when I was but a little child. In the presence of Sisters Zina, Bathsheba, Rachel Grany, E. B. Wells, and a dozen others I could name, she blessed me to bring forward a work which no one else could do and which would bring great joy in its accomplishment. That call has never since ceased. It induced me to bring forward a law in the third State Legislature for the promotion of fine arts;  and when asked (in the Relief Society Committee) to suggest a study for our year's work, I knew what it was to be. You all know the response. Every passing cloud, each hill-line, each patch of color, became charged A DREAM 203 with a message of beauty to a great multitude of observing and loving women. Let us take up again this study of art in our society with the hope that the Gospel of Beauty may dispel much of the ugliness which grips the race. Remembering always that it is our privilege to flood the world with the beautiful and good. A DREAM. By Lucy Wright Snow. I dreamed I saw a road at the side of a mountain about twenty feet in width. It was not an earthly road but was white and padded, having the appearance of a sheet-covered, tufted mattress. Adjoining the road was a stream about the same width as the road, of the most wonderful water. It did not appear to be real water but looked more like a transparent liquid glass of such transcendent clearness as to thrill any one to look at it. I could not measure the length of the road because of its following the curve of the mountain. Many women were working on this road, dressed in white and standing each in a little recess partly formed of a filmy gauze just enough to give her a little privacy from other workers. All were too busy to talk to one another except as they came on duty and went at regular intervals. At such times the greetings that were exchanged produced in each of us, for I was with them, an almost overpowering feeling of love and inspiration similar to that felt when listening to a sermon of one filled with the Holy Ghost. All were so happy in their work. The peace of that place which was felt and enjoyed by all present far surpassed the happiest moments of my life here. I do not know just the nature of the work the women were doing for I was new there, but at the far end of the side of the mountain I saw many, many books, which they told me were records, and that later, part of my work would be keeping those books. Then I stood by the stream wondering why it looked so different to any water I had ever seen before, when a beautiful woman appeared, dipped her hands into it, and as she drew them out, the drops all crystallized and adhered to her hands like diamonds with surpassing brilliance. I exclaimed, "No wonder people can't be baptized in that water, for it would crystallize all over them, and it would be impossible for them to be buried in it." Then I wakened, still feeling the sweetest, most profound peace that I have ever experienced, and the dream has always been a comfort and joy to me, and is as vivid today in my mind as it was about two years ago when I dreamed it — 1918.