[Vol7 | April 1920 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field]

Notes From the Field Tintic Stake. On September 1, 1919. two hundred thirty-five men and women made an excursion to the Manti temple, under the auspices of the Tintic Stake Relief Society, making the trip in automobiles. Service was given as follows: Charity, 
 S. TEMPLE EXCURSIONISTS ON TEMPLE GROUNDS AT MANTI. names;  individual work, 69 names. There was donated to the temple by the Relief Society women of the Tintic stake $135. They expect to have such an excursion annually. Aside from the sacred duties connected with this visit to the temple, the trip was very interesting and enjoyable. The party returned home on September 4. Northern States Mission. Mrs. Emily Whitney Smith, wife of President Winslow Farr Smith, of the Northern States mission, has been appointed to preside over the Relief Societies of this mission. With her intelligence and zeal she is sure to make a success of this new calling. Mrs. Smith succeeds Mrs. Mary Smith Ells NOTES FROM THE FIELD 221 worth, who for many years stood at the head of the Relief Society work in the Northern states. As the wife of President G. E. EU sworth, Mrs. Ellsworth not only presided graciously at the Mission Home, but traveled with her husband throughout the mission where she organized Relief Societies and Mothers' Classes, and carried on the regular Relief Society activities most successfully. Box Elder Stake. In a letter from Mrs. Minnie H. Jensen, we learn that the Box Elder Stake Relief Society workers have made a special effort this year to cultivate a more diligent spirit among the ward teachers. In the past many of the teachers have felt that their duties were finished when they made their monthly visits, and have not attended meetings regularly nor taken part in other activities. Due to the interest aroused, the teachers are now attending regularly themselves, and have succeeded in persuading the women in their districts to do the same. As a result, the attendance for the Box Elder stake has increased almost 50 per cent. Panguitch Stake. From the Panguitch stake we have the following report for nine wards for the month of January. The data being collected on a neat, printed monthly report: Number of meetings held, 36;  attendance at meetings, 149, 192, 175, 177. Class work, first subject. Salvation on the other side and testimony;  second subject, work and business (quiltings) ;  third subject, promise of peace in the Book of Mormon;  fourth subject, social service and literature. Activities: Charity fund, $15.40. General fund, $85.70. Days spent with sick, 151. Number of special visits to sick, 113. Money donated for temple work, $39.15. Number of days spent in temple work, 38. Number of visits by stake board Per cent of visits by ward teachers, 100. In Memoriam. Emery stake. Mrs. Emmer J. Day, second counselor in the Emery Stake Relief Society, died from pneumonia following influenza, Feb. 2, 1920. Mrs. Day was born in Payson, in 1871, and while she was still a young girl moved with her parents to Huntington, Emery county, where she married Albert A. Day. The family later moved to Castle Dale. Mrs. Day was president of the Castle Dale Relief Society from 1909 to 1913;  she was appointed Relief Society stake treasurer in 
 1914, in which capacity she served for two years and until she was called to the office of second counselor to Mrs. Louisa Oveson, which office she held at the time of her death. In addition to her Relief Society duties, Mrs. Day was an ardent worker in the Red Cross. She also served with ability as instructor in the Emery stake academy for many years. Mrs. Day was widely known throughout her stake and was beloved for her unfailing interest in everything that was for the general good. She is survived by four daughters and three sons. Her husband died in 1918. Blaine Stake. Rebecca Rawson Adamson, stake treasurer of the Blaine Stake Relief Society, passed away the last of January at the L. D. S. Hospital in Salt Lake City. Mrs. Adamson was so young, so beautiful in form and character, and so exceptionally capable that her going is a great loss, not only to her family, but to the whole Relief Society. She was energetic in her labors and was deeply interested in Relief Society work where she displayed exceptional talent. She leaves one little child, a devoted husband, D. E. Adamson, stake clerk of Blaine stake, and a large family to mourn her seemingly untimely death. Mrs. Adamson was the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. William F. Rawson of Carey, Idaho, where Mr. Rawson served as first counselor to President Heber Q. Hale of the Boise stake. Her mother was formerly president of the Relief Societies of the Boise stake, and her sister, Mrs. Laura J. Adamson, is serving in this capacity at the present time. President Wm. L. Adamson of the Blaine stake is her brother-in-law. Panguitch Stake. Mrs. Amanda Williams Clark passed to the great beyond on February 6, 1920. Mrs. Clark was an active and energetic Relief Society worker and a woman of great faith and deep spirituality. She was in her eighty-fifth year, having been born in 1835, at Lake Fork, 111. Mrs. Clark 245 as follows: Grand-children, 85;  great-grand children, 155;  great-great-grand children, 5. For seventy-five years she was associated with the L. D. S. Church. Just a few weeks before her death, in a Relief Society testimony meeting, she bore a strong testimony, relating that she had seen the three Nephites, and had been ministered to by them. Mrs. Clark urged the sisters at this time to cultivate the spirit of hope and testimony, that they might be guided by the still, small voice. At the time of her death, Mrs. Clark was taking entire NOTES FROM THE FIELD 223 care of herself and doing her own house work. She will be greatly missed by her family and friends who have been inspired by her noble character and devotion to the Church. Liberty Stake. We are pleased to publish the following report of tho Home-bound Committee of the Liberty stake. It is a special duty of this committee to minister to those members of the stake who are home-bound and thus unable to attend meetings or services of any sort. Receipts: cash from wards, $10;  cash from private parties, $26.35;  glasses of jelly from wards, 140;  glasses of jelly from private parties, 6;  quarts of jelly from private parties, 3;  candy donated, 10 pounds, for friends in the County Infirmary;  paper bags, $1.50;  donation from stake, $5.80;  donation from home-bound workers, $5.80. Disbursements: glasses of jam and jellies, 137;  cash for flowers, $13;  cash for other purposes, $18.05. Hours spent visiting home-bound members, 912;  committee meetings held, 11;  number of deaths of home-bound members during the year, 16;  blessings given, 28;  distributed to inmates of County Infirmary, 128 bags, containing glass of jelly, oranges, apples, candy and cookies. Mrs. Annie IM. Sheets is chairman of this committee. MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN The National American Woman Suffrage Association held a Victory convention in Chicago, February 12-18, 1920. The convention included the Susan B. Anthony Centenary Celebration, and the Anna Howard Shaw Memorial, together with the First National Congress of the League of Women Voters. There were two thousand delegates in attendance. Among them, Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt, the president;  Jane Addams. Florence Kelly, Mary Garrett Hay, Lucy Anthony (a niece of Susan B. Anthony). Harriet Taylor Upton, Alice Stone Blackwell, Catherine Waugh McCollouch, Mrs. Frances Burns, Mrs. Lucia Ames Mead and Dr. Hebard. Utah was represented by Mrs. Susa Young Gates, Mrs. Donnett S. Kesler, Mrs. Emily Whitney Smith, Miss Marjory Thomas, and others — making fourteen delegates in all. The departments of the convention were as follows: Campaigns, Surveys and Organization;  Congressional;  Finance;  Literature;  Press and Publicity;  Local Arrangements. The sections of the convention were: American Citizenship;  Protection of Women in Industry;  Child Welfare;  Uniformity of Laws;  Social Hygiene;  Food Supply and Demand;  Research. Under the auspices of these various sections interesting meetings were held. At the Susan B. Anthony Centenary Celebration, the heading of the program was: "What Happened in Ten Decades, Briefly Told:" 1820-1830— (The Age of Mobs and Eggs). 1830-1840— (The First School Suffrage). 1840-1850— (The Dawn of Property Rights). 1850-1860— (The First High School for Girls). 1860-1870— (The World's First Full Suffrage). 1870-1880— (The Negro's Hour). 1880-1890— (The First Municipal Suffrage). 1890-1900— (Suffrage Spreads).