[Vol7 | April 1920 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Treating the Rumor Germ]

Treating the Rumor Germ Mrs. Parley Nelson. Dissension and discord made their appearance in the west side neighborhood, along with the Jorden family. Prior to their advent, if the children of the neighborhood, indulged in little differences or disputes, they were allowed to settle them in their own way, without interference from their elders, for the parents were aware that childish squabbles, if left alone, are soon forgotten. The Jordens had two children — Ben, a headstrong, willful lad of about fourteen;  and Luella, a delicate, high strung girl of eleven years. At the beck and call of these two youngsters their mother went, like the most abject slave of ancient times. Each day began with a multitude of whining complaints. It was, "Mamma, where are my shoes?" "Mamma, find my stockings, "Mamma, what have you done with my hat?" or "Mamma, fix my hair." When meal time arrived Mrs. Jorden was in a quandary, to find something that would meet the approval of their Epicurean appetites. If she prepared muffins for breakfast, they demanded toast or hot cakes;  if eggs were served, they unfailingly called for potatoes, or vice versa. These trying habits, together with continual bickering and disputes with each other, seemed enough to drive the most patient mother distracted. But not so with Mrs. Jorden. Like many another doting mother, her eyes were blind to the faults and imperfections of her children, and she seldom missed an opportunity to hold them up as patterns and examples for other children to follow. Without meaning to do so, she cultivated the selfish and disagreeable side of their natures, so that they became a source of irritation and dissension wherever they chanced to go. Ben took especial delight in teasing the little tots, snatching their playthings, hiding their hats, or otherwise disturbing their peace and pleasure, and no matter how interesting the game, or how riotous the fun, it invariably ended in a riot of disputes and disaster, soon after the Jorden children made their appearance on the scene. Mrs. Jorden, just as invariably "took sides" with her own children, accusing and condemning their associates, inso- 
 much that peace and quietude departed from the neighborhood. Another serious fault of Mrs. Jorden's was that of listening and giving credence to all the stories her children related concerning the daily happenings of the neighborhood. Not only did she give ear to these tales, but ofttimes she repeated them, and they were passed from lip to lip;  like a ball of snow which is rolled about, they sometimes grew to enormous proportions and trifling little occurrences, seemed anything but trifling in their nature. Mrs. Mason lived next door to the Jordens. She was a sensible little woman, who endeavored to teach her children to respect the rights of others and to wait on themselves and each other, whenever possible. She, too, made it a point to listen to the little confidences they brought to her, not for the purpose of repeating and elaborating on them, however, but she felt that it assisted her in knowing what her children were doing when they were beyond her watch care, and also gave her opportunity to advise them as to their own behavior. Mrs. Mason was greatly surprised, one evening, to hear her six-year-old lad, relating how Tommy Jones had been caught stealing eggs in the Jorden barn. "Are you sure you got that story exact, Johnny?" asked his mother severely. "Why, I don't believe Tom Jones would steal, and I want you to be careful how you repeat such things." "Well, he did it, just the same," declared Johnny stoutly;  "Ben Jorden told me himself, and he says perhaps a big policeman will take Tommy Jones to jail." Mrs. Mason warned her children not to repeat the story, telling them that she was sure it was a mistake, but the rumor grew and finally came to the ears of Tommy's mother. Mrs. Jones had a private interview with her son, who admitted that he had been in the Jorden barn, on the previous morning. "If that is the case, we will go over and talk to Mrs. Jorden about it," said Mrs. Jones, and to her surprise. Tommy made not the slightest objection. Arriving at the Jorden home, Mrs. Jones explained her errand. "Oh, yes, indeed it's true, Mrs. Jones. My Bennie caught him right in the barn with the eggs in his hands. Didn't you Bennie?" she asked, turning to her son who was whittling chips over the kitchen floor. "Sure," replied Ben, briefly, without raising his shifty eyes. Mrs. Jones' face grew white as chalk, "What about ii TREATING THE RUMOR GERM 195 Tommy Jones?" she demanded, "1 want the whole truth about this affair." Tommy's eyes blazed as he turned, with clinched hands toward his traducer. "It's a lie, Ben Jorden, and you know it! You know that Old Flopsy, my white rabbit, dug under our fence and got into your yard. You said I might come after her, and you helped me chase her. She ran into your barn and we both hunted for her there, but we didn't find her. You know I didn't touch any of your old eggs, and if you dare say I did, why I'll — I'll — " "Oh, I guess you won't," admonished Ben's mother, "we have heard enough of your excuses." Then turning to Mrs. Jones, "I have never had occasion to doubt the word of my children," she said, "and I think we may as well end this painful interview." Mrs. Jones went sadly home. Arriving there she questioned her boy until she was convinced in her own mind that he had told the truth, but to establish his innocence in the eyes of others, she realized would be a difficult matter. The rumor continued to spread, and Tommy was taunted and shunned by many of his former associates, while his loved ones endured humiliation and grief. Some days later the neighborhood was again astonished, this time by the report that seventeen-year-old Irene Murphy, had disappeared from home, and that when last seen, she was in an auto with a strange man. The sympathy, of Mrs. Jones was, at once, aroused and she took it upon herself to inform the Murphys. Mrs. Murphy listened in surprise. "Why, Irene hasn't been away from home at all. How could they make such a senseless story out of nothing?" Inquiry brought out the fact that Irene had accidentally met an out-of-town young man of her acquaintance, and had chatted with him for some time, after which he had taken her in his car, to the high school building. That was the whole foundation of the absurd story which was going the rounds, concerning the "wild escapade of a high school girl and a strange man." And so it continued. The tongue of rumor seemed never to weary. One day it would be a shocking report of how Mrs. Mason's boys had killed Mrs. Caldwell's chickens, and thrown them in the well;  next day the story would likely be of how the windows in the new church building had been deliberately broken by the children of Mrs. Naples. A grain of truth, an unbridled imagination, and rumor did the rest. The mothers of the neighborhood, finally came 
 to realize the source of the trouble, and the spirit of revolution began to brew. Mrs. Murphy, whose Irish temper was daily advancing toward the boiling point, invited a number of her neighbors in, one afternoon, to "take tea," as she said, but in reality for the purpose of holding an indignation meeting. Over the teacups, Mrs. Murphy announced her plans, which were received with approval by some, while others shook their heads in doubt. "Well, I for one, think it is about time for something to be done to call a halt on Old Madam Rumor and her forces, and I'm ready to do my part, whatever that may be, to help check the spirit of gossip and fault-finding which is eating its way into our homes," declared Mrs. Jones with vigor, thinking of the injustice that had been meted out to her own unoffending son. "I agree absolutely with Mrs. Jones, in this regard," asserted Mrs. Caldwell. "In my opinion it is a clear case of 'rumorites,' in its most virulent form, superinduced by what we might call exaggerated ego;  and the measures, however drastic, will be justified if they can effect a cure, or even give temporary relief." "Thims my sentiments exactly," said Mrs. Murphy, and little Mrs. Naples arose and recited dramatically, "Oh, wad some power the gifti give'em, to see their kids as ithers see 'em." The party broke up in the midst of laughter, intermingled with righteous determination. The following morning Mr. Jorden had scarcely disappeared from sight, on his way to work, when his wife began to have callers. Mrs. Jones was the first arrival. She begged to inform Mrs. Jorden that a rumor was current to the effect that Ben had been smoking cigarettes, and also using very bad language. "I am sure that is a false report," replied Ben's mother, growing red with anger. "Well, my Tommy, has seen him smoke more than once, and as for the bad language, I have heard that myself. And if you don't believe me, why just ask any of the other neighbors, and I'm sure they will tell you the same thing." Mrs. Jones had scarcely hurried away, until Mrs. Murphy was ringing the Jorden bell. "I am glad to find you at home," she began at once. "Do you know that your children have stripped our choicest tree of its apples. Ben climbed the tree and dropped the apples on your side of the fence and Luella gathered them up in her apron and hid them in your haystack. My Irene saw TREATING THE RUMOR GERM 197 them do it, and if you don't believe me, why just go and see for yourself." "My children are not thieves, if you please," declared Mrs. Jorden, trembling with rage, and she invited Mrs. Murphy to leave her premises and never darken her door again. In succession followed Mrs. Caldwell, Mrs. Mason and Mrs. Naples, one to mention the fact that it was reported, Ben had been a member of the gang which had looted a box car recently. Another told of having seen him throwing stones at passing automobiles, while the last visitor repeated the rumor that Luella had been cheating in school. "Lies, nothing but lies, from beginning to end," stormed Mrs. Jorden. "This is the result of living in such a low-down neighborhood. My poor Bennie! My dear Luella! To be so wrongfully which condition accused," her and she fell husband into her found hysterical when he weeping, returned in to dinner. She sobbed out the whole story of the neighbors' insults and abuse, and commenced a stinging tirade against them all. For the first time in their married life her husband silenced her and told her he was afraid she had received her just deserts. "You have always been too eager to judge other people, and you are especially fond of seeing faults in other people's children, though our own are not one whit better than others. I have known for some time that Ben smokes, whenever opportunity affords;  and I have also learned that he was mixed up in that box car affair, so it is highly probable that the other reports are true as well. I haven't a doubt, that the neighbors acted in self-defense, and I only hope you are wise enough to take the lesson to heart and profit by it. "I have been mortified and ashamed many times to hear you judge and condemn on so little evidence. From now on. I am going to have something to say in regard to the discipline of my children, and if they deliberately do wrong, an effort will be made to set them right." "Oh, indeed," began Mrs. Jorden angrily. "Yes, indeed!" interrupted her husband with determination in his voice and eyes. "And I rely on you to help me in every way possible that our children may grow into useful, respected, citizens. Of what value is aught else in the world, if our children stray from the path of right," he finished gently. In the days that followed, Mrs. Jorden wept and sulked by turns, but finally the good in her nature asserted itself. Her neglected conscience whispered that she had been in 
 the wrong, and for the sake of the children she resolved to try to overcome her faults. She was too deeply humiliated ever to feel comfortable in the west side neighborhood again and Mr. Jorden finally yielded and moved to a different locality. Time and subsequent events proved that she had profited by her lesson. Ben and Luella could never understand what had brought about the change in their mother, but they were happier for being obliged to perform certain daily duties, to look after their own property, and to wait on themselves. Their father forbade their whining complaints, and insisted that they treat other people with consideration. He made a pal and companion of Ben, and gradually won the boy from his bad habits. Instead of being a source of disturbance and distrust the Jorden family became respected and admired in the community in which they lived. THE COLONIAL QUILT. Grace Ingles Frost. Naught but a square of patchwork is it, to the careless eye, Made in an intricate pattern from days of an age gone by, But each block with its tiny stitches, and its quaint applied design Of pink and purple garlands, with daintily trailing vine, Brings unto me the vision of a maid of guileless grace, With the glory of southern roses tinging her young face. I see, as her nimble fingers the needle deftly ply. The hue on her round cheek deepen, a radiance light her eye, And I seem to hear her singing as she matches piece and part, The words of the old, old story that lives anew in her heart. Naught but a square of patchwork is it, to the careless eye, Yet, as I view it, I ponder and I can but wonder why The tracing of perfect stitches, and weaving of design, Do not reveal its secret to others. Love o'mine.