[WomansExponent | Vol3 | 1874 | May | Issue: 24 | Title: FLOWERS. | Author: Unknown]

FLOWERS.
	NO cross, no crown.
	OUT of debt, out of danger.
	FAR from court, far from care.
	TAKE away fuel, take away flame.
	COVETOUSNESS brings nothing home.
	THE master's eye makes the horse fat.
	HE that goes borrowing, goes sorrowing.
	ALL are not hunters that blow the horn.
	AN obedient wife, commands her husband.
	LET your face and hands, like the town
clock, tell how your inner works are going.
	LEISURE is sweet to those who have
earned it, but burdensome to those who get
it for nothing.
	THE habit of being always employed is a
great safeguard through life, as well as es-
sential to the culture of every virtue.
	TO find friends when we have no need of
them, and to want them when we have, are
both alike easy and common.
	ONE in a million do a heroic action; but
the little things that make up our life come
every day and every hour.
	IF ever God had failed one who trusted
him, you might doubt; but he never has,
therefore you should be confident.


If you love others, they will love you.
If you speak kindly to them they will
speak kindly to you. Love is repaid with
love, and hatred with hatred.
	Say the strongest things you can with
candor and kindness to a man's face; and
make the best excuse you can for him, with
truth and justice, behind his back.
	By six qualities shall a fool be known:
Anger without cause; speech without mo-
tive; inquiry without an object; putting
trust in a stranger; and wanting capability
to discriminate between a friend and a foe.
	To complain that life has no joys while
there is a single creature whom we can re-
lieve by our bounty, assist by our counsels,
or enliven by our presence, is to lament the
loss of that which we possess, and is just as
rational as to die of thirst with the full cup
in our hands.
	Help somebody worse off than yourself,
and you will feel that you are better off 
than you fancied. You may subdue an an-
gry man by bearing with him, but not by
answering him; that is as if the steel should
try to make the flint leave off giving sparks
by striking it again.
	He is a wiser man who sees his own im-
perfections than he who discovers a planet,
or is able to plan a campaign or build a 
fort. He is more a conqueror who quells
the baser passions within, and brings the an-
imal nature into subjection to the moral,
than he who subdues the world. He is a
stronger man who moulds society mentally
and morally, who is able to direct the for-
ces of the mind and soul, than he who suc-
cessfully fights with bulls and bears, or over-
comes a giant in mortal combat. He is
more a brave man, a hero, who dares to do
right, to brave popular indignation, than he
who stands unappalled at the cannon's
mouth; the one is as far above the other as
the mind and soul are superior to the body.


﻿ON a recent trial in Wales, to test the val-
idity of a will, it was proved that in 1868
the testator became impaired in intellect to
such an extent that he went to the post office
with a postage stamp on his forehead and
requested to be sent to a place he men-
tioned.
	THE designs for the twenty cent silver
piece were selected and approved lately by
Hon. H. R. Linderman, director of the
mint. The adverse design contains a sit-
ting figure of Liberty, with the word "Lib-
erty" inscribed on a shield, the whole sur-
rounded by thirteen stars.  Beneath the
figure is the date 1875.  On the reverse
side is the figure of an eagle, with the
words "twenty cents." The edge of the
coin will be perfectly smooth, in order to
distinguish it from the twenty-five cent
coin.
	THIS promises to be a pretty fair year for
centenarians, as during one month we have
read the obituaries of fourteen.  These
were: Richard Cotrell, of South Carolina,
119; Aunt Chloe, slave of the late General
S. F. Patterson, of Palmyra, N. C. 116; Ca-
hic-ca-te-da, the Quapaw chief, 115; Peggy
Hanger, of Staunton Va., and a negress in
the Mobile Poorhouse. 110; Dennis Tooney,
of Oxford, Mass., 108; John Hyndman, of
Fingal, Canada, and Michael O'Leary, of
Indianapolis, 105; Mrs. Pepin, of Vermont,
104; Mrs. Rosenburg, of South Carolina,
103; and John Poparrhegopolous, of Greece,
Alice Cooley, of Brookfield, Mass., Wm.
Warren, of Topeka, and Mrs. Winthord
Merrill, of Illinois, I00.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		DIVERSIONS.
	GIRLS' rights—kisses.
	GIRLS' lefts—old bachelors.
	PLAYED out—a retired actor.
	A RARE flower—the pink of politeness.
	A CLEAR case—an empty dry goods box.
	ALTHOUGH a lady's age is undeniably her
own, she does not own it.
	"TOM, what in the world put matrimony
in your head?" "Well, the fact is I was
getting short of shirts."
	AN editor who received a letter in which
weather was spelt "wethur," says it was the 
worst spell of weather he had ever seen.
	AN Augusta school-ma'am woke up a
bookseller at four o'clock, the other morn-
ing, to get a key to an arithmetic."
	A BOOKLYN sewing-society fines any
member who talks scandal, $1 for each of-
fense; only the wealthy are able to attend.
	A LITTLE girl, upon her return from a 
children's party, being asked if she had a 
good time, replied, "Yes, but there wasn't
much boys there."
	A GENTLEMAN, on presenting a lace col-
lar to his adored one, said, carefully: "Do
not let any one else rumple it." "No,
dear," she replied, "I'll take it off."
ANDREW Jackson was accused of bad spell-
ing, but John Randolph defended him by
declaring that "a man must be a fool who
could not spell  more ways than one."
	SHERIDAN, at a public dinner, was unex-
pectedly called upon to say grace, when he
acquitted himself as follows: "What? No
clergyman present? Thank God for all things."
"THAT clock, stranger," said a Michigan
farmer, "was the best kind of a clock up to
six months ago, when my daughter began
to have beaus, and now the blamed thing is
always two hours slow."
	"J. Gray—Pack with my box five dozen
quills." There is nothing remarkable about
this sentence, only that it is nearly as short
as one can be constructed and yet contains
the whole alphabet.
	THE celebrated Chesterfield is said to have
died with a witticism on his lips. When
told that he was dying by inches, he thanked
heaven that he was not so tall by a foot and
a half, as Sir Thomas Robinson.
	DEVOUT mother (to young lady who is
burning up love-letters on Sunday)—"What
are you doing there, my dear?  Are you
burning incense?"  Young lady—"O, no,
ma; I am only burning nonsense."
	A MODERN philosopher thinks it is a mis-
take to suppose women have stronger at-
tachments than men.  A man is often at-
tached to an old hat; but he asks, "Who
ever heard of a woman being attached to
an old bonnet."
	A GIRL screamed in a lecture audience in
Lafayette, Oregon.  Then all the other girls
screamed.  General consternation ensued,
and a rush for the doors.  People were
bruised, clothes torn, and the room at length
emptied.  The first screamer had seen a
rat.
	A GENTLEMAN entered a bachelor's rooms
and looking around, said: "Very snug—
rather too snug; but I suppose they are
large enough for a bachelor." "Yes," said
the bachelor; "but I suppose if I had had a 
better half, I might have had better quar-
ters."

[Column 2]
	A RED HAIRED lady, who was ambitious
of literary distinction, found but a poor sale
for her book.  A gentleman, in speaking of
her disappointment, said: "Her hair is red
(read) if her book is not." An auditor, in
attempting to relate the joke elsewhere,
said: "She has red hair if her book hasn't"
	A DOCTOR lately informed his friends, in
a large company, that he had been eight
days in the country.  "Yes," says one of
the party; "it has been announced in the
newspaper." "Ah!" said the doctor, stretch-
ing his neck importantly; "pray in what
terms?" "Well, as well as I can remember,
in the following: "There were last week
seventy-seven deaths less than the week be-
fore.'


[Column 1]
