VOL 40 NO 5 MAY 19 53 Ves A Place Apart Dorothy J. Roberts I have seen blossoms—billows of blossoms; and high White ceilings of them in the palaces of May; I have walked their undulant carpets beneath the boughs And watched petals depart on their leisurely way. I have known their soaring burst of glory in the wood; I have seen spring's blossoms... And understood. Blooming orchards hang, an arras in my thought— Seas and seasons of them, repeated in design On the filmy fabric of memory; flowing streamers Of blossoms; acred slopes in diagonal line; Polkadotted valleys of them; and one single tree; A million-stamened, shimmering Pottawattamie. Spring's blossoms on a branch, in love and child, These in their pristine purity were mine. The. Scented breakers of their glory roll Upon the desert reaches, over steepest stone, To strew celestial emblems on a place apart And print their samite promise in my heart. 

The Cover: "Yucca Blossoms," Photograph by Josef Muench Frontispiece: "Blossomtime Near Los Altos, California," Photograph by Jeff Thomson Cover Design by Evan Jensen From lear and Sar I express my thanks and appreciation for the high quality material offered in. Our Relief Society Magazine. I live in the mission field and am so proud to display our Magazine and talk with non-member friends about it. I have very much enjoyed the series of articles on early Amenican Glass (by Alberta H. Christensen). Both the history and the pictures are most interesting. Please publish more articles of this sort to help educate the sisters to appreciate more fully this art. I also want to thank you for the wonderful lessons. —Mrs. Warren F. Wilhite North Little Rock, Arkansas This morning I read the fine editorial in the March number of The Relief Society Magazine (Dwight D. Eisenhower Inaugurated President of the States) and am very thrilled with it. You have said the very things I wanted to say, and given the exact information I need to have, to enter in our Stake Relief Society History. —Clara Horne Park San Mateo, California After reading the article "Fisher Towers" in The Relief Society Magazine for August 1952, by Celia Luce, I visited the area which she so vividly described and found a remarkable example of nature's sculpture work in colors of great beauty, and turrets and towers of majestic height, revealing more of the wonders of the Colorado River country. —Victor J. Nelson Holladay, Utah The entire May Magazine is packed with beauty and worth from the daffodils (frontispiece photograph) — symbols of the resurrection of spring, to the last page. My heart sings its gratitude. I must also mention the beauty of concept and imagery in "A Tribute to Visiting Teachers" (frontispiece poem by Alberta H. Christensen). In re

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Belle S. Spafford - - Marianne C. Sharp. - - - - Velma N. Simonsen - - - - Margaret C. Pickering - - -. Achsa E. Paxman Blanche B. Stoddard RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD " President First-Counselor Second Counselor - Secretary-Treasurer Aleine M. Young Helen W. Anderson Mary G. Judd Evon W. Peterson Josie B. Ba Mary S. Boyer Anna B. Hart Leone O. Jacobs Christine H,. Robinson Charlotte A. Larsen Edith S. Elliott Mary J. Wilson Alberta H. Christensen Edith P. Backman Florence J. Madsen Lillie C. Adams Nellie W. Neal Winniefred S. Leone G. Layton Louise W. Madsen Mildred B. Eyring Manwaring RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - > - - Associate Editor - - - - - = = P - General Manager - < ze Z id - / 7 Elna P. Haymond - Marianne C. Sharp - Vesta P. Crawford - Belle S. Spafford 

Vol. 40 MAY 1953 No. 5
Contents
SPECIAL FEATURES
Ten Conditions Which Contribute to a Happy Home by David O. McKay 284 The Purposefulness of Life by W. Cleon Skousen 286 The Coronation of a Beloved Queen by Ramona W. Cannon 291 Travel Highlights—Highway in Venezuela by Elizabeth Williamson 321
FICTION
Sweetpeas by Lois E. Forkner 298 A Time to Forget—Chapter 11 by Fay Tarlock 306 Lucky Two Shoes by Frances C. Yost 316 Karren by Blanche M. Hollingsworth 320
GENERAL FEATURES
From Near and Far 282 Sixty Years Ago 300 Woman's Sphere by Ramona W. Cannon 301 Editorial: "The Song Of the Righteous" by Marianne C. Sharp 302 In Memoriam—Emma Adams Empey 304 Magazine Subscriptions for 1952 by Marianne C. Sharp 322 The Magazine Honor Roll for 1952 326
FEATURES FOR THE HOME
The Stranger in My Garden by Alice Whitson Norton 310 By Early Candlelight—IV. A Pioneer Bedroom by Bonnie A. Kesler 313 Tricks With Flour Sacks by Leona Bammes Gardner 319
POETRY
A Place Apart—Frontispiece by Dorothy J. Roberts 281 After the Feast by Iris W. Schow 289 My Mother by Marjorie L. Hafen 297 The Pepper Tree by Mary Hess Hackney 303 My Gift by Alice Morrey Bailey 304 One Shining Day by Josephine J. Harvey 305 A Mother's Debt by Christie Lund Coles 312 The Little Gray Horse by Katherine F. Larsen 315 Web of Words by Margery S. Stewart 319 My Wish for You by Bernice T. Clayton 358 Mother by Emily Carey Alleman 358 About Flowers by Elaine Swain 358 A Humming Bird by Catherine E. Berry 359 Sea Call by Eva Willes Wangsgaard 360 Silenced by Hannah C. Ashby 360 Spring Bride by Maxine H. Holbrook 360 Gift Divine 360

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: scriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741; Sub- $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. 

Courtesy Deseret N ews ' PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY AND SISTER EMMA RAY RIGGS McKAY Sen Conditions Which Contribute to a Happy Home President David O. McKay (From an Address Delivered at the Dedication of the South Idaho Falls Stake and Eighth Ward Chapel, at Idaho Falls, Idaho, December 7, 1952) 1. Ever keep in mind you begin to lay the foundation of a happy home in your pre-marital lives. While in courtship you should learn to be loyal and true to your future husband or wife. Keep yourselves clean and pure. Cherish the highest ideals of chastity and purity. Do not be deceived. Page 284 2. Choose your mate by judgment and inspiration, as well as by physical attraction. Intellect and breeding are vital and important in the human family. | 3. Approach marriage with the lofty view it merits. Marriage is ordained of God. It is not something to be entered into lightly or to be dissolved at the first difficulty that arises. We have in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints the highest concept of marriage that exists in the world—the eternal nature of the marriage covenant. 4, Remember that the noblest purpose of marriage is procreation. Home is children's natural nursery. Happiness in the home is enhanced by having children at the fireside. 5. Let the spirit of reverence pervade the home. Have your home such that if the Savior called unexpectedly he could be invited to stay and not feel out of his element. Pray in the home. 6. Let husband or wife never speak in loud tones to each other. 7. Learn the value of self-control. We are never sorry for the word unspoken. Lack of self-control is the greatest source of unhappiness in the home. Children should be taught selfcontrol, self-respect, and respect for others. 8. Fasten home ties by continued companionship. Companionship fosters love. Do everything to cement love for all eternity. 9. Make accessible to children, proper literature and music. 10. By example and precept, encourage participation in Church activity. This is fundamental in developing a true character. Church activity should be led, not directed by parents. Page 285 The Purposefulness of Life W. Cleon Skousen Director of Alumni and Public Services, Bingham Young University [Address Delivered at the Annual General Relief Society Conference, October 1, 1952] here this morning and to T HIS is a great privilege to be catch the spirit of this occasion. I think that in this coming year, as we approach the subjects which Brother Joseph Fielding Smith has set forth in his book The Progress of Man, we will find that the social science lessons will give additional purposefulness to our lives. In fact, I believe the main objective of these lessons is to help us understand that we are part of a great program. 'These are days in which there are many voices abroad in the earth, and the ones we listen to are the ones we will probably follow. We have to discriminate not only in what we read, but in what we are willing to listen to and accept. Our objective is to find out those things which will make for longrange enjoyment, understanding, and appreciation. It is most important that every member of the Relief Society understands the purposefulness of what the Church is trying to do. Up in Idaho, down on some lonely farm in Nevada, out in the glamor capital of California, here in Utah, or back in the shadows of the skyscrapers of New York, you may become very discouraged. You may forget that there is purposefulness in it all. You may feel overwhelmed by what you are asked to do—to rear children, to be a loving companion to a husband, to Page 286 mend overalls, nurse the sick, cut hair, bathe a flock of little people, go Relief Society teaching, teach in Primary, put up some fruit, do the housework, and then have somebody say, "Won't you take a little time out and read some good literature?" But there is purposefulness in all of this, and we must not get so overwhelmed that we begin to feel within ourselves that it is just too big for us to handle; because it isn't. All of you here are to be congratulated because you are in the graduate school of the Church. It is not just anyone who can be a Relief Society officer. Only those who have learned how to gear their thinking and their living and their personal discipline to a very high order, are able to take on the responsibilities of service and love and devotion which typify our Relief Society officers. | When the early saints moved from New York to Kirtland, Ohio, they were instructed to build a temple in their poverty. They succeeded because they knew the Lord had said that this was the thing to do. Purposefulness gave them courage. When the saints went from Kirtland down into Missouri where only the fringes of civilization existed, those people went there with courage and happy expectation, because the Lord had said this was to be the future center stake of Zion. THE PURPOSEFULNESS OF LIFE Purposefulness was in every brick they put in every wall, and every spadeful of dirt they turned over. But then, when the glory of Zion was postponed temporarily, and these saints went back to Nauvoo, the Lord guided them with purposefulness again. What those faithful men and women accomplished in Nauvoo remains a monument to this day., Later, when Brigham Young started West with the saints, there were some who did not really believe, so they stayed behind and left the kingdom. Why? They had lost the vision of purposefulness in the Church. But Brigham Young was not discouraged. When they started for the Rocky Mountains, he knew the voice of prophecy was in it (Widtsoe, John A., Evidences and Reconciliations, page 300). He had a vision concerning it which verified the words of Joseph Smith when he said the saints would "become a mighty people in the midst of the Rocky Mountains" (Teachings of Joseph Smith, page 255). HEN the pioneers got out here they started building this world-famous' Tabernacle and a. Magnificent Temple. There was purposefulness in every hammerstroke on every chisel. Each and every hour of labor that was put into these structures had design and purposefulness behind it. There was not anything temporary about it— there was design. And so it is today, there is no single act of virtue, industry, or goodness that we do in building the kingdom of our day that does not 287 have its place in developing that plan which our Heavenly Father anticipated, foreordained, and _prescribed before the foundations of this earth were laid. That is why Nephi could say: "The Lord knoweth all things from the beginning" (I Nephi 9:6) and that is why Enoch could be shown "All the inhabitants of the earth" even before they lived (Moses 7:21-67). That is why the vision of Adam could be opened so that he might see our day and generation, as well as every age from the time of Adam until the very end of the earth (See D. & C. 107:56). There is engineering back of it all. There are some people who say it is impossible for God to so plan, that he could not know what people are going to do; that he could not know what nations are going to do., But our Heavenly Father might reply: Will you have confidence in me? I do know what you are going to do—just as any parent comes to know what his children will do. I know you better than you know yourselves. You have forgotten who you are, but I know who you are. I have lived with you and loved you and nurtured you through the eons of the past. That is why I can anticipate and predict what you will do. He might also add: Some of my children will struggle against me and will try to build inferior bridges across the chasms of earth life; they must learn their lessons. Their bridges will crash into the abyss below. But some of my other children will follow me in building a superstructure which will be a bridge between the second estate and a glorious kingdom of eternal life. These are my Priesthood, these are my saints, these are they who possess the light I 288 have set upon the hill to give inspiration to all the earth. Up to now everything that I told you was going to happen has happened. There was a flood. In the meridian of time my Son did come. On this, the American Continent, I did establish my kingdom and had my Son visit these "other sheep"; and for two hundred years there was a golden age of peace and prosperity. I told Nephi nearly six hundred years before the birth of my Son that there would be a great Gentile nation raised up on this land in the last days, and I told him that it would become the greatest nation on the face of the earth in its day and time. (See 1 Nephi 22:7; also 3 Nephi, chapters 27 and 29). That prophecy was only fulfilled in recent years. Nevertheless, it was fulfilled. 'Today this nation stands with over half of the world's developed wealth. Of all nations that exist, it is the richest and the one that enjoys the things that all of the rest of the world would like to have. NO, paraphrasing the scripture, the Lord has this to say to the people of America: I want to warn you. I can only have freedom in this land if you live for it. I want you to understand that you have two choices, and the people in this land will choose one road or the other. If you will sustain righteousness in my kingdom, if you will remain morally clean, if you will acknowledge my existence, if you will kneel on your knees and ask me to bless you, if you will not cheat nor lie, nor steal, and if you will rear your children to be righteous citizens before me, you will live on this land forever, which is the land given unto Joseph and his seed. And, my children, I warn you that if you will allow crime, murder, and deceit, immorality, and degeneracy to come into your midst, I will scourge you with the same people by whom I scourged the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1953 Nephites. And if it becomes so bad that you are ripened in iniquity, you will be cut off from the face of this land as were the ancient peoples who desecrated this choice part of the earth which I set apart for those who would live truth and righteousness and freedom. (See 2 Nephi, chapter 1.) In our social science course, Brother Joseph Fielding Smith has brought these scriptures together so that we might understand that we are part of a great plan, that we are in the last days, that we are in the closing part of the sixth act in a seven-act drama. And everything we do every day is important. Every act of service, every word we speak to our children, every meeting we attend is important. And the members of the Priesthood beyond the veil—the angels of the living God— are watching this congregation today. They are watching us for that spark of inspiration, initiative, and drive that will go out and do the work that God has to have done to accomplish his purposes and his objectives in these the last days. 'There are going to be days of stress, and our Heavenly Father says when it happens, that we should not allow ourselves to be frightened. His purposes will not fail. To his modern children he throws out this challenge: "Will you speak up for right, will you speak up for truth, will you speak up for freedom?" Some of our people say, "Is it really necessary to speak up? Why not just mind our own business and let the world take care of itself?" Let me quote from the 6oth section of the Doctrine and Covenants, where the Lord says: But with some I am not well pleased, for they will not open their mouths, but THE PURPOSEFULNESS OF LIFE they hide the talent which I have given unto them, because of the fear of man. Wo unto such, for mine anger is kindled against them. And it shall come to pass, if they are not more faithful unto me, it shall be taken away, even that which they have. For I, the Lord, rule in the heavens above, and among the armies of the earth; and in the day when I shall make up my jewels, all men shall know what it is that bespeaketh the power of God (D. & C. 60:2-4). To you teachers, may I pass that on as a word of comfort. When your heart trembles within you, your Heavenly Father says, "Speak up. Someone has to do it and, if you will try, then I will see what I can do to help you Great events are happening in the earth, nations will be crushed, and there will be circumstances to try our faith. To tell our people what 289 to expect is part of the responsibility of the teachers in the social science field. We must help our sisters and their husbands and their children to stand firm, and know that God is in his heaven and that his purposefulness will be effectively consummated here upon the earth. May God bless you all in your endeavors, whatever they may be, in this great society. The day will come when all humanity at the judgment bar of God will look upon you with affection and appreciation because you are those who are graduates in this course of human _ life and experience, and you are they who have learned to make your lives more profitable unto the many millions who have passed this way. So do not be discouraged. Be of good cheer and do a good work. God bless you to that end, I pray. O> After the Feast Iris W. Schow Some things that seem eternal cannot last: The shrill, exultant cries—"I climbed Why is the mother robin after me? I did not touch... Why do they eat so fast?" The yards of thread that were Arachne-cast In endless damming, underneath the tree The pillow turning done indulgently In time to treasured tales out of the past. After the feast, one must not call for more, Though well-loved tasks that paled on love a bit Are missed, once they have ceased to be diurnal. One has no key when time has locked the door And pointed onward toward that infinite I see Where life, that seemed so frail, shall prove eternal. Courtesy, British Information Services QUEEN ELIZABETH I! Elizabeth is wearing the diamond and pearl circlet of Queen Victoria. The design incorporates the Tudor rose, Scotch thistle, and Irish shamrock. The Queen is also wearing the diamond necklace which was a wedding gift from the Nizam of Hyderabad, and a bracelet given her by her husband, the Duke of Edinburgh. The Coronation of a Beloved Queen Ramona W. Cannon O Latter-day Saints residing in the British Isles, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, and South Africa, the crowning of Elizabeth II as Queen of England on June 2, 1953, holds deep signifcance. Since the coronation of a King or Queen of England consists of pageantry and rites dating back many centuries, people throughout the world are keenly interested in the observance; and in this day of emancipation for women, the crowning of a queen to rule such vast domains takes on added interest to women everywhere. The Coronation Day of Queen Elizabeth will be long remembered; on June 2d, an estimated two million people will line the procession route to Westminster Abbey, where the crown will be placed on the head of the lovely young Queen. There will be some noticeable differences, however, between this coronation and that of Elizabeth's father, George VI, and her grandfather, George V. The parade will be long and magnificent. The military might of empire will move in faultless precision, wearing colorful, varied uniforms: scarlet and white—the Beefeaters' neck ruffs and skirted coats—the tall bearskin headdresses of the Scots Guards, the kilts of the Queen's Own Cameron Highlanders. A forest of lances will gleam in the sunlight with great splendor and hidden threat. Lithe, clear-skinned Canadian Mounties will go by on their prancing steeds, and everyone will be stirred by the music of the bagpipes and the wonderful bands. All eyes will be centered on the elaborately decorated gold State Coach, drawn by eight handsome grays, which will convey Her Majesty to the Abbey. However, the years between the last three coronations have seen the changes of the march of time. 'There will be fewer crowned heads flashing their diadems, decorations, and jeweled sword scabbards, for royalty is diminishing. In the procession of George V, the potentates of India, with jewelstudded turbans and exquisite aierettes, seated on horses with gemencrusted trappings, formed one of the most magnificent contingents. Spectators will never forget the beauty and the sleekness of the great numbers of horses in the sunshine, their arch-necked, high-stepping rhythm, so controlled that the creatures might have been sculptured., Horses were far fewer in George VI's procession, and for the Queen's procession, it was necessary to send out a special call to purchase more horses. In spite of this, more peers and civil servants will drive in cars than will ride in carriages. People will watch the long parade Page 29] 292 from upholstered seats, grandstands, or planks, built into every available space: among the grouped chimney pots on the roofs, in office and shop windows, and in all possible street spaces. Seats are selling at from $10 to $200 apiece. Lamp posts are being greased this time, so climbers may not nest in their upper reaches. Great numbers of spectators will stand most of the night or, if lucky, they will sit on newspapers on sidewalks, on bases of monuments, or on plots of grass. But before the parade commences, they will all be standing crowded against each other almost too close for breathing. Many will see only what their periscopes (small mirrors on the end of long sticks which are held high overhead) reflect. Yet, when the Queen passes, all will be bursting with enthusiasm and proud to the very core of their beings. S a part of the celebration of the crowning of King George V, June 22, 1911, on Coronation Eve, the great actor Sir Beerbohm Tree gave a remarkable performance in a London theater, as Cardinal Woolsey in Shakespeare's King Henry the Eighth. Inserted into the play was a scene in which he crowned Anne Boleyn, Henry's new wife, Queen of England in an exact replica of the coronation to take place in the Abbey on the morrow. By royal permission, part of the actual regalia was used, and the rest, even to the coronation robes of the peers, peeresses, and the Queen, were exact duplicates of the originals. This is the nearest a section of the public came to seeing the coronation ceremony at that time. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1953 However, when George VI was crowned, millions of Americans turned on their radios in the dead of night to hear an on-the-spot description of the procession to the Abbey and the solemn crowning ceremony itself. More marvelous still, on June 2, 1953, Americans and others who have access to television may be eyewitnesses to the unique and sacred ceremony of crowning an English sovereign, except for the anointing ceremony, which will not be televised because of its sacred character. A little pre-coronation knowledge will help us all the more to appreciate this symbolical and historic ceremony. Elizabeth will be the thirty-ninth British monarch to be crowned in Westminster Abbey, the building of which was begun in 1050 by Edward the Confessor, who lies buried there. Preparations for coronation week have been underway ever since February 8, 1952, when Elizabeth, called home from East Africa by the death of her father, arrived in London by air and was formally proclaimed Queen. A triple fanfare of trumpets signalled her accession. In a ceremony dating back to the days of chivalry, a medieval-clad figure read the proclamation from the balcony of St. James' Palace. The throngs sang "God Save the Queen"; artillery salutes boomed; and a clattering procession of heralds announced the news. To her councillors, Elizabeth, at that time, said.. «I shall always work... To uphold constitutional government and to advance the happiness and prosperity of my THE CORONATION OF A BELOVED QUEEN Courtesy, British Information Services 293 HISTORIC CROWN OF ST. EDWARD AND THE IMPERIAL STATE CROWN The Crown of St. Edward (left) is made of "massy" gold, encrusted with diamonds, sapphires, emeralds, and pearls. And Independence. The two central arches symbolize Heredity The Imperial State Crown (right) with the arches slanting upwards, is an insigne of empire. In the center of the band is the 317-carat Culinan II diamond, the second largest diamond in the world. Above this diamond is the great ruby of the Black Prince. In the cross at the top of the monde (world) is Edward the Confessor's famous sapphire. The arches and clusters are diamond oak leaves and pearl acorns. Peoples I pray that God will help me to discharge worthily this heavy task which has been laid upon me so early in life. OR a coronation, the British crown jewels are removed, under heavy insurance, from the armored-glass enclosure in the Tower of London where they are kept, and are exhibited to the public. There are sixty or more pieces in the collection, which has been valued at $80,000,000. Preparing them for a coronation is a threemonths job. Every stone must be removed, cleaned, polished, and reset. Among the most important articles is the historic solid "massy" gold Crown of St. Edward encrusted with diamonds, sapphires, emeralds, and pearls so heavy that it is worn by the sovereign for a few moments only, and never again in life. 'The Imperial State Crown, made for Victoria's coronation, will probably be the one Elizabeth will use for the remainder of the ceremony. The priceless Koh-i-noor is also 294 a crown jewel, as are the rulers' scepters, the four jeweled swords, and 'the King's and Queen's Orbs, richly gemmed and topped by crosses, signifying Christianity surmounting the globe. The golden eagle ampulla, a two-handled vase for holy oil, will be used. The head of the eagle unscrews; then the oil is poured into a golden spoon for the anointing. 'This part of the ceremony is reminiscent of the anointing of the kings of Israel by prophets and priests. Seven thousand guests and participants will see the ceremony in the Abbey, the presence of the peers being commanded by the Queen. Galleries and blocks of seats have been built wherever possible, nineteen-inches of seating space being allowed for a peer, eighteen for a commoner. Naves and _ transepts will be filled, and with the coronets, tiaras, necklaces, coronation robes with ermine, the Abbey will appear as a great jewel-glittering, erminetrimmed cross. There is a raised platform for the monarch, with the chair of estate and footstool near the altar for the anointing, the coronation chair a little farther away, and in the center of the platform, an elevated throne for the enthronization. The first step of the ceremony is the Recognition. The sovereign, in coronation robe, with cape of ermine, and suitably accompanied, enters from an anteroom and is presented to the people in all four directions by the Archbishop of Canterbury. The people cry "Long live the Queen!" four times, amid a flourish of trumpets and the beating of drums. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1953 The Queen is then seated in the chair of estate near the altar, where the Archbishop administers the Oath to her, and, after promising to "govern according to the statutes in Parliament agreed on," to "cause law and justice, in mercy" to be executed, to maintain the laws of God and the Church, she goes to the altar, lays her hand on the open Holy Bible, and says, "The things which I have here before promised, I will perform and keep. So help me God." She kisses the Book and signs a copy of the Oath. "THE Queen will then step over to the ancient coronation chair in use since 1300, with the Stone of Scone directly under the seat. 'Then comes the anointing with the consecrated oil from the ampulla. The Dean of Westminster pours the oil into the golden spoon, dips his fingers in, and makes the sign of the cross on the Queen's forehead, breast, and the palms of her hands. The Archbishop prays O God, the Crown of the, Faithful, bless... And sanctify this Thy Servant... And as Thou dost this day set a Crown of pure gold upon her head, so enrich her royal heart with Thine abundant grace, and crown her with all queenly virtues. He poises the Crown of St. Edward above her head for a few moments, then deliberately and with reverence, places it on Her Majesty. Electric lights, switched on suddenly, set the jewels ablaze, flash following flash, like wordless echoes, throughout the Abbey, and the glory is further enhanced by a wave of golden glamor as the peers put on their coronets. THE CORONATION OF A BELOVED QUEEN Courtesy, British Information Services 295 EAGLE AMPULLA, GOLDEN SPOON, AND TOP OF THE ROYAL SCEPTER The eagle Ampulla and Golden Spoon are used in the sacred anointing ceremony. These articles are believed to be part of the regalia of St. Edward, 1042. At the top of the Royal Scepter (nght) may be seen the Great Star of Africa, the world's largest diamond, 530 carats. Swung between golden clasps, it moves with myriad lights. The Scepter is used when a monarch is crowned and lies on his coffin in death. The Acclamation follows—thousands of voices calling "God Save the Queen!" to musical accompaniment. On the footstool, kneeling, near the coronation chair, the Queen receives the blessing of the Archbishop, also his Exhortation. The Queen will be lifted to the elevated throne (the Enthronization). Homage is paid by the Lords Spiritual, kneeling, and sealed with the Kiss of Fealty, then by the Princes of the Blood and the Lords Temporal. The music is a very important part of the service. Part of it dates back to the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries. The words of "Zadok the Priest," the anthem for the anointing, go back to Saxon times. However, considerable music had been specially composed for this coronation: a motet by England's dean of composers, Ralph Courtesy British Information Service QUEEN ELIZABETH, HER HUSBAND, THE DUKE OF EDINBURGH, AND THEIR CHILDREN, PRINCE CHARLES AND PRINCESS ANNE Vaughn Williams, eighty-one years old, and two coronation marches by Sir William Q. Walton and Sir Arnold Bax, to precede and close the ceremony. During the months of preparation for the coronation, probably $300,000,000 has been spent by government and private firms and individuals. Some streets will be decorated with arches supporting crowns thirty feet high, ablaze with multicolored lights. Stores will create false fronts—magnificent ones costing perhaps $20,000. London windows will blossom with beautiful flowering window boxes, and the humble flat will boast some special decorations. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1953 Wweyr all this pomp and circumstance? John Drinkwater suggests that Britons are a people with poetry in their blood, and for them the monarch is a poetic symbol. Not elected by the people, he is born "in a predestined line of succession" to be the symbol to the British of their worth and their potentialities. He is the "Accepted Apotheosis" (a glorified ideal) of all his subjects. Surely that is the answer. The monarch is symbolical of the dreams of each subject—all the strength and the depth—the beauty and the glory of life possible to attain. The coronation also represents continuity, an idea very important THE CORONATION OF A BELOVED QUEEN to the British. It is orderly, it is logical, the present growing out of the past, and the future from the past and the present. All must be preserved and fused into a glorious whole. The principle of identification is at work, too. For a moment every little shopgirl will be the lovely, glamorous Queen. The thinker will be not only the monarch—he will be Britain—the Britain of the Magna Charta, of common law, of constitutional government, of great industrial inventions, of fighting to the death against injustice and aggression. Apart from all coronation traditions, Elizabeth is loved for herself. She has fired the imagination of her peoples. A romantic figure, only twenty-six years old, she herself is glamorous; she has a handsome husband, popular in his own right, a devoted, wise, forward-looking man who can counsel the Queen; she is a loving mother with two children, one the heir-presumptive to the throne. Since her father became King, when Elizabeth was nine, and she was next in line to the throne, she has been carefully trained to be a 297 queen, a most demanding—physically as well as mentally taxing position. Her alert mind cuts through verbiage and gets to the heart of a matter at once. Her memory is prodigious. She plans and executes well. She is punctual. Her war training has made her understanding, sympathetic, more democratic than her predecessors. Yet she has the regal bearing and _ thinking which, to the British, are important in their sovereign. Among Elizabeth's devoted admirers are Latter-day Saints who owe allegiance to the Queen. In England, soon after the accession of Victoria, Heber C. Kimball, there with other missionaries to introduce the gospel, noted the inscription on a banner in a parade, "Truth will prevail." Aye, truth will prevail, he thought, applying ~ this motto to the gospel. Surely this has come to pass. Much of the vigor which has kept the Church alive and _ healthy, strong and intelligent, growing in graces of the spirit and the arts, has flowed into it from the British Isles. At the present time Great Britain is still contributing converts to the Church at the rate of more than a thousand a year. + Insight Marjorie L. Hafen If you want to see a person's charm, Watch him. If you wish to know what fills hi. Mind, Listen to him. If you care to find a person's worth, Work with him. If you seek to sound the depths of his soul, Hear him pray. Sweetpeas Lois E. Forkner with all the vivid colors in the sky, and all around the air was cool and soft and fragrant from Mother's sweetpeas. Mother always had sweetpeas. In summertime they banked the porch where she and Daddy sat. At those times we played under the trees on the lawn, and Louise and Glenn went walking down the orchard road. I remember how the crickets sang. Our house was old and very large, and settled into the hillside with orchard all around. In spring, when the blossoms came, it looked and felt and was—like fairyland. I remember Daddy working in the orchard, with little Buster at his side, and Mother, her face red and steamy, fussing in the kitchen, canning something or baking bread. Sometimes Glenn came to see Louise, and waited in the kitchen to eat warm bread with jam, and talk to Mother. Louise was the oldest, and she and Glenn were going to be married soon. Everyone was happy, even Mother. Then one day it all began to end. Even the day was sad and graylooking. Mother had been sick all that day. The doctor came, and then they took Mother to the hospital. 'That day I was eight. It was my birthday, but no one even thought or cared. Not even myself. Louise cried most all day and didn't even braid my hair. I just felt lost, and there was a big hurt inside of me. But I tried to play with Buster anyway, because he was Page 298 G with 2 was the good time, two years younger than I. It didn't seem right to be sad when you were only six. The next night Daddy came home, and his face made me cry, and I wanted to go to him, but the hurting inside choked me so that I only stared while he went into the bedroom and closed the door. And Louise put her arms around Buster and me and told us how our Father in heaven had taken our Mother, and tried to explain to us that she was living in another place. I remember the tears on all. Our faces, but mine didn't seem teal because I knew it wasn't really so. That night I dreamed my Mother was in the kitchen, and I slept happily. But when I awakened the next morning, everyone was still weeping and then I tried to understand. For Mother really wasn't there. Why did God leave us so alone? And then the tears came, and they were real, but they wouldn't melt the hurt inside of me. S the days and weeks went by, Buster lived within Daddy's embrace and sometimes I spent the evening there. Louise leaned on her love for Glenn, but there didn't seem to be any special place for me. Not until the morning I remembered to water the sweetpeas. Somehow Mother's shy and gentle ways seemed to linger near her beloved flowers, and I found solace there. In my heart it seemed that not all my SWEETPEAS Mother was gone as long as the flowers grew that she herself had planted there. To go to school as long as the flowers bloomed, for when the hurt seemed to grow too big, I'd think of the sweetpeas growing around the porch, and I'd be comforted. But fall came, and it was cold. And one cruel morning I found the sweetpeas were completely withered and gone. Frantically, I searched for even one blossom, but there was none. I wept for hours. I couldn't eat or sleep. I withdrew into a little prison world. I couldn't even pray, for, you see, God had taken my last tie with Mother away. In vain, my sister, Daddy, and Buster tried to comfort me—tried to give me faith. But the hurt was all that was real. Sometimes it would seem to go away, and then some frightening moment I would remember, and it would sweep over me, seeming nearly to choke me. After awhile I didn't cry anymore, but I didn't want to eat. Sometimes I saw my Daddy's anxious face, and would go to Sunday School with him, but I scarcely seemed to be there. All that winter I lived in my own prison world. Then one day I knew that it was spring. I saw the sunshine slanting down the hill, and creeping on the floor up to my chair. When I looked out the window I saw the blossoms putting crowns on all the orchard trees. That very day Louise came home and placed some packages of seeds in my hands. There were pictures of sweetpeas on the front of them. What were they for? I could even bear 299 Louise bundled me up and took me outside. She fixed the earth along the porch in the very place the sweetpeas had always grown. Then she helped me to plant the seeds. Down deep inside of me was a strange little feeling of excitement. Of course, I knew the seeds wouldn't really grow. The sweetpeas had been Mother's, and I felt that she alone could grow them. Just the same, every morning I had to look just to see and to satisfy the new feeling. And every time I went to look, I saw my Daddy smile. But nothing happened for so many days that I crept back into my prison. It was a lovely spring, and I shall never forget the evening Daddy led me out to the porch with a special air I could not define. He pointed to the new-turned soil near the porch, where I had planted the seeds. I couldn't believe it, but really, there they were—little marching rows of sweetpeas growing, just as they had grown every spring for Mother. In a moment I was down the steps, and I dropped to my knees to see the plants more closely, and when I touched them joy filled me. I could pray and give thanks, for suddenly was born the knowledge that we would someday have Mother again, just as we had the new sweetpeas. The hurt melted away and never came again. I sat down by Daddy with the new excitement still there, and looked out over the hills. And sure enough there was the sunset again, and I could hear the crickets sing. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, May 1, and May 15, 1893 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomeEN OF ALL NATIONS" PROMISE YOU WILL LOVE ME ALWAYS If your love to me is precious When each day with pleasure rings Oh, how much my heart will need it When old age unto me clings. When my steps are slow and feeble, Hushed the merry sound of glee, After years of life together Will you, can you still love me? —Caroline B. Pratt IDENTIFICATION OF SIGNATURE: The growing fashion of giving girl children but one name, as "Helen" or "Katherine" so that when they marry they may retain with their new signature, their full maiden name, is part of this subject of identification of signature. 'Mollie Irene Brown" is not as euphonious nor as sensible as "Mollie Garfield Brown." 'This custom has the further advantage of securing the woman's immediate recognition not only as her husband's wife but also as her father's daughter. —Frances E. Livnigan MUSIC: During the temple dedication the people of Utah had a wonderful and beautiful revelation concerning the divine art. Did any of us really know before the talent of our musicians? From the morning of the first meeting, when the three hundred trained voices, under the baton of our admired Evan Stephens, pealed forth those beautiful anthems and hymns until the close of the three weeks during which not only the Salt Lake choir but also the choirs of Utah, Weber, Cache and Sanpete Counties sang for us there was a continual and delightful surprise... We learned that the beautiful words of one of the anthems were composed by Miss Donettie Smith, daughter of Prest. Joseph F. Smith, a young woman so modest of her talents that this is the first public use she has made of them. —-Camelia ) BEAVER STAKE QUARTERLY RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE: President Lucinda Howe, presiding. After the usual opening exercises the local Presidents reported their respective branches of the Relief Society as being in good condition and doing all they could to fulfill their mission. The statistical and financial reports were then read. The balance of the time was mostly occupied by Mrs. Elizabeth Howard and Mrs. Ardella Eardley. Such topics as: keeping minutes properly, punctuality, the necessity and efficacy of prayer, cleanliness, taking the EXPONENT, sustaining the Deseret Hospital, and teaching our children obedience to the priesthood and the law of tithing, Word of Wisdom, observance of the Sabbath and fast days, were treated by these sisters in a very pleasing and instructive manner. —Louisa Jones, Stake Sec. A MEMORY OF SPANISH FORK CANYON The same old cedars crown the steep, Where evening splendors flame in gold; But the sad winds that never sleep, Sing of some by-gone grief untold. —Laura St. Vrain Page 300 IVAN JENSEN <7 MéEY, Dowager Queen of England, died March 24, 1953, at the age of eighty-five. She was the wife of George V, mother of George VI, and grandmother of the present Queen Elizabeth II. A well-beloved woman of much dignity and wisdom, she has long been revered as exemplifying the qualities of womanhood so greatly admired by her people. HICAGO'S Social Research Inc. Recently made public a report on sixty eminent women business executives. In the announcement it was stated: "An abiding femininity is characteristic of the successful group. 'They are women who are able to use their feminine skills of understanding, adapting to others, and comprehending emotional factors." ABBIE R. MADSEN, Brigham City, Utah, a well-known and well-loved contributor to The Relief Society Magazine, is the author of Friendly Echoes, recently off the press. 'The attractive volume is a collection of her inspirational poems, dealing, for the most part, with home and home life. A! Present, the only countries in the Western Hemisphere to withhold the vote from women are Mexico, Colombia, Haiti, Honduras, Nicaragua, and Paraguay. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon HE death of Miss Bertha Irvine, secretary to five Presidents of the Church, has brought a sense of personal loss to many in the Church, from the leaders down to the small boys of her Sunday School classes, who had a deep love for her. Her ability to recall, to remind, to find needed information quickly and quietly, made her a valuable help to the Presidents. Her unselfishness, devotion to others, and ability to teach, along with her great testimony of the gospel, have affected countless lives and given to many young people opportunities which would not otherwise have been theirs. HE Federated Women's Club of Canada recently presented a farm tractor to the Greek village of Masovouno, where every adult male was killed in World War II. HE marriage rate among air hostesses is so high that the airlines are now taking on men as replacements. NN DAVISON, wife of Frank Davison who was drowned at sea in 1949, has just completed a lone voyage across the Atlantic Ocean in a twenty-three foot sloop, the Felicity Ann. In February she dropped anchor at Portsmouth, Dominica, sixty-five days after she left Las Palmas in the Canary Islands. Page 30! CQ— > EDITORIAL +9 VOL. 40 MAY 1953 She Song of the Righteous. GINCE the Lord, in the present dispensation, has stated to the saints, ' 'For my soul delighteth in the song of the heart; yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads," music is an integral part of the gospel. The beautiful harmonies and attestation of faith which hymns and other sacred music contain, certainly had their beginnings in heaven. Brigham Young declared, "There is no music in hell."; The great Church choirs today, notably the Salt Lake 'Tabernacle Choir, with the soul inspiring organ music from Temple Square, have their place in proclaiming and enriching the gospel message. 'Through the instrumentality of the radio, the music of the Choir—an outpouring of testimony from righteous members of the Church—passes the barriers of time and space and may reach into the remotest home where a formal presentation of the gospel might not be accepted. Latter-day Saints are a singing people. It was in 1830, about three months after the organization of the Church, that Emma Smith was instructed by the Lord through a revelation given to her husband, the Prophet Joseph Smith, "to make a selection of sacred hymns, as it shall be given thee, which is pleasing unto me, to be had in my Church" (D. & C, 25:11). Throughout the history of the Church in these the last days, the Page 302 singing of hymns has buoyed up the spirits of the saints and allowed them to express their devotion in words and music beyond the power of the individual to phrase for himself. Christmas carols which have come down through the centuries as written by men inspired by the spirit of the Lord, intensify and clarify our feelings toward the birth of the Savior. Barriers of language and customs melt away before the power of music and expression. Luther's "Cradle Hymn" ties together the believing hearts of devout Christians everywhere, no matter in what language the words may be couched. "Come, Come Ye Saints" has had a like power in welding together people of different lands in the oneness of the gospel. From whatever clime it be, from the frozen North to the islands of flowers, members of the Church live again the lonely trek across the parched lands of America to "the place," when they sing the words of that great song. Men, women, and children are united in feeling as they were in crossing the plains. This song brings alive that glorious but desperate journey as nothing else has the power to do. "Come, Come Ye Saints" also served as a: clarion call during the war. In haste the missionaries were to be gathered and returned home. Given a railroad station teeming with harried individuals of different countries, with the necessity of gathering together EDITORIAL two or four from that great throng, and what but the whistling or singing of "Come, Come Ye Saints," could so easily have drawn the missionaries as a magnet to their presiding officer? It was the privilege of Eliza R. Snow to set down for Zion the great principle of a heavenly mother as given to her by the Prophet Joseph Smith: In the heavens are parents single? No; the thought makes reason stare! Truth is reason, truth eternal Tells me I've a mother there. How beautiful and soul-stirring is the singing of this hymn "O My Father" by the sons and daughters of God. Where else does a Latterday Saint learn this revealed truth? In the gospel the singing of praise and adoration to the Lord is not restricted to all-male choruses, nor even to mixed choruses. It is the privilege of the Relief Society to form Singing Mothers choruses wherein the daughters of Zion may unitedly express their testimonies in song. A great service is performed by the Singing Mothers. The songs which express great truths of the gospel do not influence merely the congregations before which they sing. As mothers in Zion they hum and sing the songs also in their homes, and so carry the influence 303 and power of reverent music into the lives of their children. What lovelier picture could there be in the sight of heaven, than a family being grouped around a musical instrument and uniting their voices and hearts in praising the Lord? The place of music in worshiping the Lord is made plain in holy writ. We may read of the song of Moses and the children of Israel after crossing the Red Sea, when they sang "I will sing unto the Lord, for he hath triumphed gloriously: the horse and his rider hath he thrown into the sea." Then we read "And Miriam... Took a timbrel in her hand; and all the women went out after her with timbrels and with dances. And Miriam answered them, Sing ye to the Lord, for he hath triumphed gloriously; the horse and his rider hath he thrown into the sea" (Exodus 15:1, 19-21). The sweet singing of David and the part music and choirs played in the temple ceremonies, all bear witness to the power of music in personal lives and sacred services of former days. In joy and in sorrow the saints of the Most High today may praise the Lord for his mercies and blessings and lift up their hearts and rejoice. The song of the righteous will be a prayer to the Lord and will be answered with a blessing on their heads. —M. C. S. My Mother Mary Hess Hackney The trenchant beauty of her mother soul Is ageless, and when one day she must leave, And crucibles have taken of their toll, I know that she will bid me not to grieve, For while she waits across the narrow sea Her guiding love will still envelop me. Gn Memoriam—Emma Adams &mpey ON Sunday, March 15, 1953, the mortal life of one of the choice daughters of our Heavenly Father, Sister Emma Adams Empey, came to a close at the age of ninety-two. For twenty-nine years Sister Empey was a devoted and capable member of the general board, endearing herself to her associates of the board and to her sisters in the stakes of Zion. She was a woman of superior endowments and will be especially remembered for her contribution to the burial clothes department of the general board, for her accurate and efficient work as general treasurer of the society, and for her many years of identification with the practical nurse program. Countless numbers of homes have been blessed through her service in this latter activity.: Sister Empey had a sincere and unwavering testimony of the truth of the gospel and was loyal and devoted to the work of Relief Society to the end of her life. Her devotion to Relief Society was characterized by complete unselfishness. Regardless of her personal interests or advantage, she always placed first the work of the society. Her earth life has been a pronounced influence for good, bringing happiness, development, and encouragement, to her sisters. It will bring to her rich and eternal rewards. The general board is gratified to have had her as one of its own. —— She Pepper Tree Alice Morrey Bailey The mocking-bird sings in the pepper tree And awakens my babes and their father and me. He splinters his throat: On a silvery note, And filters his song Ever-changing and long Through the quiet green web of the pepper tree. The mother bird shuttles her wings endlessly To fill her small birdlings' wide-beaked hunger plea, And my babies look up From napkin and cup And their wee table laid In bud-earpeted shade Of the lacy green fringe of the pepper tree. The end of the day is a symphony When soft trade winds breathe from the Western Sea, And my babies are fed, « Sleeping sweetly in bed, And their father is there With his book and his chair, And the mocking bird sleeps in the pepper tree. Page 304 One Shining Day Josephine ]. Harvey Today I walk in happiness, heart-deep, Again the ancient earth has stirred From wintered sleep. Again the spring is on the land With newborn sounds, soft-heard. I hold one crimson blossom In my hand. The gentle winds of May Touch new and tender leaves This lilac-scented day. You will love the time of blossoming, The magic pattern springtime weaves; One shining day, calmly you will come. Joy will be a living thing, And where we walk, meadow larks will sing. Page 305 A Time to Forget CHAPTER 11 Fay Tarlock Synopsis: Serena Abbe, who lost her fiance in the war, goes to live on a walnut farm which she inherited from her cousin Harriett Lester. There she meets Jeff Landeau, a widower who owns the adjoining acres, and who helps her in running her farm. Luis Trejeda, a Mexican, also assists in the work, and Serena is impressed with his wholesome and buoyant attitude toward life. Serena also makes friends with David, Jeff's son, and, after the first harvest, she feels at home in the San Vicente Valley. Soon after Christmas Serena and Jeff are married. In assuming the duties of a stepmother, Serena finds many problems, among them David's refusal to become a boy scout. IT by bit she was learning some of the complexities of the masculine mind. Jeff was having his little joke. At the same time he was doing just what he said, presenting her with the problem. One fine morning he would expect her to say, "David has ordered his uniform." Tl go at it the way Jeff does, relaxed, she thought. By now there was a sparkling warmth in the air, far too nice to go indoors to the breakfast dishes and Saturday's baking. For just a moment, Serena decided to lie on the terrace glider, drenched in the golden warmth. She loved everything she saw, smelled, and heard, the faded red bricks of the terrace, the fragrance of the bed of mari- - golds, and the newness of the David wing, nestled beneath the walnut trees, all made one by the soft breeze that brought the distant sound of a tractor smoothing the already smooth ground beneath the Page 306 trees, a sound that, somehow, blended with the bird songs above her. She closed her eyes to the loved and familiar, in the sun's warmth, and thought of another morning It was a morning in Mexico when she and Jeff made the steep climb up the Sacred Mountain, past the stations of the cross. 'They were resting in the winter sun, looking over the red-tiled roofs of the village below them to the snowy slopes of Mt. Popo, just emerging from the swirling mists. Apropos of nothing, Jeff said, "David's mother and I never got together on religion. She was brought up in one church, I, in another. Naturally I leaned toward mine, but I wasn't the one to give him his religious training; so David went to Beth's church. I just let him keep on, but I'm not at home when I go with him, and I find myself going less and less." They were leaning against an ancient churchyard wall, and his Shoulder touching hers was warm. "Families ought to go to church together, don't you think?" His eyes were on the mists, but he said, "I hope we can do something about ua we oe Ke ke UT now spring and summer had gone by in a race. September was passing and nothing had been done. Serena sat up in the glider just as Luis came around the corner A TIME TO FORGET of the house, carrying a basket of string beans and tomatoes red from the vines. Showing his white teeth in a broad smile, he set the basket down. "Meeses," he said as to a child, "today too nice for trouble." She motioned him to sit on the bench facing her. "Troubles of the spirit come, no matter how beautiful the day," she said to him in Spanish. "But you seem to have banished all of yours." "Oh, no, Senora," his denial was passionate. "I am not yet that good, but someday...." He opened his hands expressively, then pressed them together and leaned forward. "Here with you, life has great meaning. I have," and he began counting on his lined fingers, "comfort, dignity, and beauty. It would be sinful not to be happy." Abruptly he stood up. "For me the best part of life is to be the last, I know." "How do you know, Luis?" He turned his eyes solemnly upward. "You, Senora, Don Jeff, and the young one have completed my life." Sitting down again, he flashed her an affectionate smile. "We are all of one family, is it not the truth? You can tell me your trouble." "In our family it is David who troubles us this morning." Luis was shocked. "David! It is not possible. That young one, there is no evil in him." After she had told him the story, she added, "It does not seem like much now, but in a few years it will mean that he has been deprived." Luis pulled himself up, straight and tall as he could make himself. "Senora," he cried, "if you and your 307 family were but of my Church the problem could be solved as easily as this." Dramatically he thrust out one clenched fist and cut through it with his other hand as if it were a knife. "See!" He was triumphant. "It would be that simple." "T can see no connection," she told him, amused, yet impressed. "Ah, Senora, it is only that in my Church the scouts are trained in the organization of young people. If you belonged, David would go and take the other young one with him." "Is it necessary to belong in order for a boy to go?" She asked it more to please Luis, than with a real desire to know. Understanding lightened his dark, wrinkled face. "Ay, Senora, you have yourself cut the knot. David will go to the scouts. If necessary, I will myself take him." He sat down, happy and confident, bursting to talk over the details. | "It might work at that." Her forehead was a maze of concentration. If Jeff would consent. One of them must go first to see if it could be done and to see if David would be happy. "You're sure it would be all right, that he would be welcome... And do they have good men for leaders?" UIS drew himself up again, full of pride. "The district adviser of the scouts, the leader himself, is of the Mormon Church. I myself,' and he seemed to swell another inch, "know this Brother Andrews personally. You may not believe it, Senora, but it was only last Sunday night that I sat by him, and ~ 308 he inquired of my health. And the other scout leaders are of like caliber, that I can assure you." "When do they meet?" Going to Valley Oaks instead of Meadtown would present difficulties. "On a Tuesday night, Senora. It is the night of the young people. They meet," he spoke with modest pride, "in a scout room of their own, where I myself helped to lay the floor and arrange the bricks for the fireplace." "The scouts really have a place of their own? "She was impressed. In Meadtown, so Jeff had told her, they met one year in the high school, another in the Legion Hall. One year they had even used an old warehouse. Clapping his hands ecstatically, Luis described the place. "It is a large hall in the new church, Senora, a beautiful hall with two accessory rooms, one of them with a kitchen that has a place for everything a scout needs." Then, with the speed of quicksilver, his face grew sad. "Ay, if only I could have had such a place when I was a youth." Slowly he shook his head. "David must not be denied." He looked at her questioningly. "We won't deny him Luis. Which night is it?" "It is on a Tuesday night and often I go, for the activities, while for the young, are for all. I will make it a duty of pleasure to go with him each Tuesday night if you wish." Elated by her talk with Luis, she kept her plan a secret until Tuesday afternoon. She and Jeff were in town for some hurried shopping and to pick up David. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1953 "T've no objection," Jeff said. "I know a number of Mormons around here, and they're all fine men It's done something for Luis, we know that. If they'll take David," his tone brightened, "why don't you try it, and bring Johnny along, too." David was noncommittal. "T'll have to talk with Johnny first," was his decision. After a long telephone call, broken by silence, while Johnny talked to his parents, he came back with his lower lip out. Johnny couldn't go tonight, but he would go next Tuesday, maybe, if David's report was good. David didn't want to go alone. ERENA persuaded him it would be fun to ride over with her and Luis and have a new experience. Jeff was no help this night. He had to be at the county seat to represent the farmers concerning a new zoning ordinance. "Can you make it without me?" Jeff asked the question, hat in hand. Serena was realizing that she would have to do many things alone. "We'll try it anyway, though I wish you could go." She was in a rush to wash the dishes, get herself ready, and see that David was properly washed and shined. Ruefully, she sighed, "Oh, for those summer evenings when we could all be home together." Jeff tilted her chin with his hand. "I heard a man over the radio tonight advocating that courtship should last at least two years. I'm glad I had the sense to get you quickly before you knew what was coming." 'Then he was gone. A TIME TO FORGET Luis, in the front seat beside her, was loquacity itself. He was dressed in a sport shirt and a sweater, talcum powder generous on his freshly shaved face. "Meeses," he insisted, "why don't you go to church more often?" "I've been taking the easy way, Luis." Her eyes were straight ahead as she guided the car down the lane, already dark under the walnut foliage. "You see, Jeff and I belong to different churches, and neither of us seems to go because we're afraid we might go different ways." "Too bad, too bad."' He shook his head. ' There was a probing silence as they rode along the tree-lined highway into Valley Oaks, the smells of early autumn, light in the air. Luis ended the silence by slapping a knee with his hand. "If the Senora will pardon me," he said in deferential Spanish, "may I speak of myself?" "You are always welcome to speak of yourself." "Then I speak. You must believe me, Senora, there was a time when I did not know this, but now I do know it of my own knowledge. My heart, the great hearts of you and Don Jeff, the hearts of all the world, they were meant for God. Until the heart finds him, it is forever seeking. The things of earth cease to satisfy. You believe me, Senora?" 'There was a fervent look in his dark eyes. ERENA saw but was silent. "If we do not find him, and as I have said, I know this of my own knowledge... It is not something I got out of: a book or heard a man 309 say, the soul is lost and sees no reason for man to live." He bowed his head, then raised it. The radiant light she had seen so often on his face was there, more intense. "But when one finds God, ay, Senora, then all life is different." He leaned back against the seat and spoke as one under compulsion. "With you it is not yet bad, Senora. You have not lost God. He is in your heart, as I well know, but you must find a way to worship together with Don Jeff and the young one." Her eyes on the road, she escaped his eyes, trying to shut him away from her thoughts. Why can't I be my own conscience? She asked herself, annoyed. ""What's he saying, Mom?" David asked it from the back seat, where he had been a long time silent. "He sounds awfully excited." "He thinks you and Dad and I should all go to church together." She kept her eyes on the traffic. "That's what I've been thinking for sometime." He was very serious. "I think you should go to church with me anyway... Lots of mothers go." Soon they were in town. "Thees way, meeses, thees way!" Excitedly, Luis directed her to a side street. "The new church, we will soon see it!" Luis' church, as David called it, was newly prominent against the brown hillside, its steeple white and clear in the evening light. About it still clung the fresh smell of new wood, plaster, and paint. The parking area was already filled with cars. Boys and girls in their teens were swooping down upon the entrance | (Continued on page 359) The Stranger in My Garden Alice Whitson Norton IX asters for blue, six mariS golds for yellow, six assorted zinnias, for combination colors. With utmost care, I had spaded, raked to velvety smoothness, and tamped the soft fresh earth for this particular bed, fronting as it did the gate through which I always ushered any late afternoon guest in- _ to my garden. | With a critical eye I had selected the plants to go into the bed from a nearby greenhouse and made sure each specimen had good, strong roots. This was to be my show bed, something my friends would enjoy when they rested with me in my garden during the hot summer days. Carefully I spaced the plot, digging holes twelve inches apart, then began transplanting my newly acquired specimens into the fresh earth. Six—twelve—eighteen—I counted in the newly made plot. Each space was filled with a fresh green plant. In the bottom of the box lay a tragically withered plant—not an aster, not a marigold, not a zinnia— just a worthless discard. I lifted it to throw it away, and, suddenly, the well-remembered words of my father came to me, "As long as there is one green leaf, a plant has a chance to live." But where can I place it? I wondered halfheartedly, looking over the garden. I saw morning glories blanketing the east fence; honeysuckle ran riot over the north side, climbing roses claimed the west side, and privets hedged in the Page 310 INSTITUTE OF RELIGION 4602 SOUTH REDWOOD ROAD T LAKE CITY, UTAH 8430 south side; the border beds were filled. But my courage failed when it came to tossing it aside. Again I searched the garden, and, suddenly, my vision rested on a spot in the southwest corner, incidentally the most unattractive corner in the garden, except for a huge tree. For here, year after year, I had dumped the refuse from the garden, left it for a space of time, and returned the enriched earth to my beds. At the present moment, however, the corner was bare. For a moment I stood with the withered plant in my hand, undecided whether to toss it in the shady corner or give it a place in the sun. A puff of wind shook the withered plant, rattled its leaves and moved on, and my hesitancy ended. I reached for my spade, and didn't leave until the scraggly, withered roots were spread in a soft bed and the soil made firm above them. Then I pinched the withered top back to the sight of green in the stem. In pinching the top off, I discovered the plant was a stranger to me. It was not a Japanese sunflower, as I had supposed. The stem was hollow. Its identity, I decided, would come to light if the discarded thing survived, of which, at the moment, I had little hope. I was yet to learn the great and beautiful lesson that God works in mysterious ways his wonders to perform, for, shortly after the planting, I was called away from home, never dreaming the stay would be over THE STRANGER IN MY GARDEN ten days. However, I left instructions with Uncle Rastus to look after the eighteen annuals. 'These I wanted especially to live and blossom for my friends. Normal weather in 'Tennessee always results in wonderful crops of vegetables, grain, and flowers. But this particular year the weather conditions were not normal. Never had the oldest inhabitants of our community felt or seen such hot, dry weather. | WHEN I returned to my sunbaked fields and garden of Tennessee from Iowa's midsummer greenness, more than a mist of tears filled my eyes when I looked upon the bed I had planted with so much joyous anticipation. Six nearly dead asters, sagging beneath withered blossoms, six giant marigolds, minus leaf or bloom; and six zinnias, browned by the hot sun, stood drooping in the desolate garden. It was a disheartening experience. Here, where I had planned so much, I found so little. The goldenglow, the summer alder, and the cannas were standing up nobly, but my prized dahlias and purple phlox were drooping and withered. Suddenly, as I lifted a dried frond from a Japanese sunflower, my thoughts reverted to the last plant of my setting, and I turned my eyes toward the long-neglected corner. For a moment I stood blinking in the sun! Was my brain affected, or my vision bad? Something was wrong, for there in the corner I either saw or imagined I saw a plant rising some six feet into the air and 311 literally covered with the most gorgeous orange-red blossoms I had ever seen! Not sure that the whole was not an hallucination, I made my way to the corner, touched the slightly prickled leaves, and laid my cheek against one of the gorgeous blossoms. Just then the man who tended my garden came up. "Sorry, Miss Ellen," he said, apologetically, "but water got so scarce we had to let the flower garden go." "But this—this beautiful thing, Uncle Rastus," I queried, "what is it?" "I don't know, Miss Ellen," he answered, "but I think it muster been som'n right out'n heaven's own garden to have weathered the past weeks and kept a-bloomin'." "You are right, Uncle Rastus," I answered solemnly. "Since we don't know what it really is, we will call it the Heavenly Flower." "Heavenly Flower," I kept repeating over and over as I made my way to the house with some half a dozen brilliant blossoms in my hands, from the discarded plant—the plant I had placed in the ugliest spot in my garden!, And here it was, the sole survivor of the longest drought Tennessee had ever known. BUI: suddenly, I remembered that the previous year I had sunk a tub in the earth, slashed a few holes in its bottom, filled it with corn cobs and leaves to hold the moisture, covered the whole with dirt and planted a choice tomato over it. The dampness and 312 the shade had molded the tomato, but the tub had not been removed since. I decided the discarded plant had occupied the most auspicious space possible for this particular plant, which proved to be a Tithonia, more commonly called the Mexican sunflower. But the blossoms—how truly beautiful they were! And how grateful was I for having them. Few people around me had any flowers to speak of, hence I looked upon the discarded plant with a new and deeper appreciation. The first Sunday following my return, a large blue bow] filled with orange-red Tithonias, decorated the pulpit at sacrament meeting, and later the whole was delivered to a convalescent home. The next day a gray bowl with a half dozen brilliant blossoms paid a visit to a polio sufferer. A few days later, three bright blossoms in a green bottle RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1953 went along with me to call on a newcomer to the community, and the flowers stayed to brighten the new home. Throughout the remainder of the summer my bright Tithonias carried silent messages of love, hope, and cheer to the sick, the sorrowing, and joy to festive occasions. Incidentally, the stately tree and the bright blossoms provided a place of beauty and rest for my friends. And rarely did a group gather under the tree without the story of the discarded plant being related. Always I told the experience with joy in my heart, because I had given something cast off an nity to live. But to this day, it remains a flowet from heaven's own garden to Uncle Rastus, and when I sit alone in this secluded spot—it becomes to me a place for giving thanks for unblessings. A Mothers Debt Christie Lund Coles One day I felt my child owed me a debt, And men say that it is true, and yet I cannot feel but that my life has gained A thousand joys for every hour pained, A hundred beauties for each moment spent In Joneliness. The sacrifices lent A special sort of radiance to the hour Stitching by lamplight, binding up a flower Into a swift, makeshift corsage; each Said beside her sick-bed in a brief ayer espair, Made me the richer. When her small hand curled In mine in faith, I owned the entire world. Only through loving do we lear to serve, Through serving do we love. My days now curve More richly, have a purpose, constancy I'm sure I owe her more than - Owes me. By &arly Candlelight IV. A PIONEER BEDROOM Bonnie A. Kesler Illustrations by the Author NNIE never forgot the day A they added a second room to their home and knew the luxury of having a bedroom separate from the kitchen-living room area. They had not freighted a bedstead across the plains, so their first beds were hand-hewn from native pine and were built in the corner of the room so that the wall formed the head and one side of the bed. Later, Annie had beds which could stand alone. 'There were no springs as we know them today. 'That part of the bed was made of rope or rawhide (untanned cattle skin) in strips woven back and forth and up and down to form a lattice, and the ends were tied around wooden pegs in the side rails. Py on. = s fF "i 5 AVL «i In the early 1860's Annie visited a furniture store which supplied decorative sets of bedroom furniture. The set which she bought consisted of a bed with a headboard that reached nearly to the ceiling and was decorated with heavy hand carving. The washstand had a marble top, and high above the mirror, between the carvings, were delicate designs of tile inlay. 'The highboy had carving to match its companion piece. The entire set was made of pine, but there were a few in the store made of walnut, bird's-eye maple, and mahogany. The ticks for the beds were filled with straw, but Annie hoped she would be fortunate enough to have a feather tick over the straw tick, BEDSTEAD Page 313 | —_ ROCKING CHAIR although it was no simple task to make such a bed, because all the bedding had to be removed each morning in order to fluff the feather tick, before the bed could be made. Annie kept twelve or fifteen ducks on hand all the time, and sent the girls out to bring them in. One at a time, she would put the duck's head between her knees, hold its feet with one hand and pick the tiny feathers off the duck's breast with the other hand. What a racket the struggling things made until they were turned loose to grow more feathers! At last she had enough for a feather tick and pillows! Annie and the girls occasionally washed the feather pillows and tick, and it was the girls' duty to constantly fluff and turn them as they dried so that they would not be lumpy. Each spring, at housecleaning RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1953 time, they would empty the straw ticks (they buttoned down the middle), and on a day when there was a gentle breeze, they bounced the new straw in the wind to get the chaff out, then refilled the tick with fresh, clean straw. 'They stuffed the ticks so full that for about a week afterward, their mother would have to warn the children about falling off the bed while the ticks were so high. Soon they would flatten down to normal. In fact, it seemed too soon, for by the next spring they were padded down rather flat. - Annie and Hyrum's nightcaps and those of their children hung on the bedpost. They were needed as a protection in the unheated rooms and also in case anyone needed to sleep on beds on the floor. The trundle bed slid under the regular bed after the night's use. One of Annie's neighbors had a bedwarmer which she had received from her parents on her wedding day in Lincolnshire, England. In those unheated bedrooms, a_ bed warmer was a real comfort. It was WASHSTAND BY EARLY CANDLELIGHT a flat metal vessel with a lid anda - handle three or four feet long. It was filled with hot coals and pushed up and down between the blankets of the beds until the bedding was warm, then it was set by the fireplace to cool off until morning. A large wardrobe held the clothes for all Annie's family. It was a portable piece of furniture with doors and drawers decorated with hand carving. Beside it stood their family trunk, holding the most precious of the precious articles, such as Annie's wedding clothes, baby's first clothes, a handsome spread, and other dear keepsakes. Usually Annie used the beautiful handmade quilt as her bedspread; but the one she treasured had a Pennsylvania Dutch pattern. 315 Familiar family portraits and samplers brightened the walls of the bedroom, and it was lighted by lamps and candles. Much lovely lace was made by Annie and her daughters, and they were proud of the exquisite results. Handmade lace curtains graced the bedroom windows, adding a touch of beauty and charm. Happy was Annie when a friend came to visit! No one waited for an invitation. A woman would gather up her family, get the horse and buggy ready, and go visiting. Hospitality was second nature to the pioneers, and Annie had a gracious way of making guests welcome, whether they were expected or not. | —— She Little Gray Horse Katherine F. Larsen The little gray horse with the red button eyes Was cast on the lawn amid leaves, where he lies Forgotten, forsaken, with desolate air— No small hands to clutch him, no small heart to care. The little gray horse with the red button eyes, Half-covered with leaves, when the early snow flies, Will lie, still forgotten, beneath the white cold, And springtime will find him quite sodden and old. The little gray horse with the red button eyes By springtime discovered, will feel no surprise That a small heart proved faithless, having outgrown old toys, And joined the parade of the tricycle boys. Lucky 'Two Shoes Frances C. Yost T was a beautiful morning in early spring. The maples and willows showed a tender new green, enriched now and then by the delicate gold of forsythia. Rabbits and ermine changed their winter coats of white to fawn and amber, and clouds of bluebirds swung | over the land migrating to their northern homes. Mary Crockett felt the heady tang of spring here on Oak Street as she walked with Carma and Reah to school. It was good to wear the new yellow sweater Granny had knit, instead of her dark winter coat. She scuffed at the brown, dormant grass near the sidewalk with her winter-worn shoes. 'Too bad Granny couldn't make shoes, too, she thought. Granny Crockett worked hard to keep Mary's brother Bill in college and Mary in grade school, and to keep them all fed and warm on her small resources. That she did it all was a sheer demonstration of mind over matter. Sometimes it almost seemed as though she took it out of herself, what didn't come out of the small monthly insurance check Mary's father had provided before the accident which took his life and Mary's mother. Since Bill had gone away to college, which necessitated two roofs over the little family, Granny had grown thinner, more concentrated—or consecrated. As Mary walked along with the girls, she thought how nice it would be when Bill came home for summer vacation. Granny wouldn't Page 316 have to skimp so hard, and maybe they could buy some new shoes for Mary. | "Mary, you didn't hear-a word | said." Carma shook her. Head disgustedly. "T'm sorry, Carma. What did you say?" Mary looked at her friend. "T said it's about the time of year when Miss Condie will announce who will be the valedictorian from our class," Carma stated. "T wouldn't mention it for the world to anyone but you two girls, but I figure that one of us will get it." Reah's voice was almost a whisper. "T don't mind saying I've had my fingers crossed all year, just hoping for the honor," Carma giggled. "Just imagine hundreds of eyes glued on you as you stand on the platform in a shimmering dress of ruffles and lace, and all the other fine clothes to set it off." "T hope one of you girls is chosen," Mary said. "You mean you don't care? You don't want to be valedictorian!' Reah's voice registered bewilderment. "Why?" "Oh, reasons." Mary looked down at her shoes. "And anyway I'd be scared stiff." HE school day proceeded with its usual routine. Mary found it hard to concentrate on her studies. From the school window the air was crystal clear under the lid of the sky. She longed to be outside. Her mind wandered to Granny at LUCKY TWO SHOES home. She would be dropping seeds in the window boxes or puttering around outside in the flower beds. Finally the clock struck four and Miss Condie said, "Class _ dismissed," then added, "Mary, will you stay a few minutes?" Mary's heart gave a short upward lurch and paused. Then Miss Condie really had noticed her looking out of the window after all, she thought. She remained in her seat while the others filed out. Her heart took up its slow, heavy beat again until she heard Miss Condie's voice. "Mary, will you come to my desk?" Mary's legs felt like long toothpicks as she walked up the aisle. "I want to congratulate you, Mary. You have been chosen to be our valedictorian at the graduation exercises." Miss Condie smiled her approval. "Me!" 'There was a slight quiver in Marv's voice. She remembered the long, lovely lace dresses and pretty sandals the girls wore when they gave the valedictory address of other years. Granny would get thinner and more wrinkled if she had to worry about clothes for Mary right now. Mary bit her lip, feeling the rush of hot tears to her eyes. "Miss... Miss Condie, please choose someone else. I'll never tell anyone you asked me first, honestly. I can't do it." Mary's voice was high and unnatural. "Of course you can. I'll help you prepare the talk, Mary." Miss Condie's smile was just right—firm, yet understanding. Mary stood bleakly by the teacher's desk staring down at her old 317 brown shoes. Finally she spoke. "Carma or Reah would love to be chosen." "It isn't a matter of choosing, Mary. You have earned the honor. You have by far the best grades in the class. Your Grandmother and brother. Bill will be proud of you." Miss Condie laid her hand on Mary's slim shoulder a moment. No, they wouldn't, Mary thought. They would be embarrassed seeing her standing in the auditorium in a dark school dress and these hortid, old brown shoes. Yet Mary couldn't tell Miss Condie. It would sound beggarly. | Mary left the school building, not on the floating footsteps of triumph, but crawling in the depths of despair. Me mw mk & HREE days later Mary found Granny sitting idly in the living room when she came from school. It seemed queer to Mary seeing her like that, for she always picked up her knitting or mending when she sat down to rest. "Congratulations, Mary!" Granny spoke softly, yet warmly, as Mary took off her sweater and hung it in the hall. "Oh, Granny, did Miss Condie go and tell you?" Mary rushed to Granny and dropped on the floor, her head in Granny's lap, inside her being a blankness, a numb, plodding blankness. "Yes, Miss Condie called on me. She had a feeling something was out of focus. Why didn't you tell your old Granny?" she asked, as she stroked Mary's brown curls. "Oh, Granny, I couldn't bother you. It meant a new dress and... 318 and things. I knew we just couldn't afford it." She hid her face in Granny's gray apron. "When I was your age Mary knew a story was coming. She dried her eyes and listened. "We didn't have as many books to read, as we do now," Granny continued. "We mostly just had the Bible. When we got our work all done and had washed our hands, we were permitted to read it, if we handled it carefully. 'The best child each day had the privilege of reading to the family each evening. "I see we aren't reading the Good Book enough these days. You listen carefully, Mary, while I read a quotation." Granny opened the Bible at her elbow and read: "And why take ye thought for raiment? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow; they toil not, neither do they spin yet... Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. Wherefore, if God so clothe the grass of the field, which today is, and tomorrow is cast into the oven, shall he not much more clothe you?... Therefore take no thought... For your heavenly Father knoweth that ye have need of all these things.' " Granny closed the Bible. "Now, if you'll run up to my room, Mary, and look in the bottom of my trunk, you'll find a nice chartreuse taffeta dress. I've been saving it for an important occasion. I guess the time is ripe." Mary found the dress. It's good, clean cloth, she thought, and there're yards and yards for ruffles. Her eyes blurred. Maybe I can convince Granny I'm old enough 2? -a half hour. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1953 for my first formal. If it touches the floor, and if... If I walk real carefully maybe the old brown shoes won't show. PRING blossomed forth in all its glory for graduation. Soft yellow dandelions wove a carpet everywhere. Mary felt a queer excitement tingling in her veins as she looked at the clock on the dresser. She had just time to take a good warm bath and dress, then it would be time for her and Granny to leave for the exercises. She looked at her dress laid out on the bed. Mary looked at the clock as she re-entered her room. She had been She hurried with her dressing, the shoes could wait until last. Mary looked in the mirror, the dress did look nice. Granny. Had done a good job. She wriggled her foot under the bed to get the brown shoes. At sight of them her heart was filled to bursting. 'They were dyed and shined a sparkling black, and in the heel of each was a four-leaf clover! A fat tear rolled down Mary's cheek, and a lump hurt her throat. Granny had the biggest hug in the world coming. She had known about the ugly old shoes all the time and had done the very best she could with them. Mary rushed out of the room to go down the stairs. Holding the full skirt carefully in both hands to avoid brushing the steps, she noticed her old shoes peeping out. Even though shined they were still old, but it did not matter anymore who saw them. Why, they were the luckiest pair of shoes that would be at the exercises! Tricks With Flour Sacks Leona Bammes Gardner (on beautifully flowered prints that are used for flour and feed sacks tempt one to experiment in finding new uses for them. Feed sacks are easier to work with because they are larger than flour sacks. Recently I was fortunate in getting quite a number of flour sacks, and here are some of the things I made with them: With three fifty-pound flour sacks of the same pattern, I made a peasant skirt for my schoolgirl. I made a clothespin apron with one sack. For kitchen curtains, I used a white sack, and trimmed it with a ruffle of bright red print, and a strip of matching color bias tape. My teen-age daughter amused and confused her friends with a blouse I made of two sacks of the same pattern but different' color backgrounds—from the front the blouse was green, but from the back it looked blue. Then, of course, there are dresses and aprons for little girls. Also I made a dozen kitchen aprons. By using scraps of plain cloth for trim, and a simple pattern, I could _make a good apron out of one sack. Fancy patterns required two or more. Striped sacks turned into a beach coat, white ones became dishtowels. Feed sacks were made up into luncheon cloths with matching napkins. For small girls, sacks can be turned into panties, slips, and nightgowns or pajamas. Small sugar or salt sacks can be hemmed for hankies. One of the new, iron-on designs adds to their attractiveness, and the cost is nominal, besides being quick and easy to do. If the housewife makes bread for her family, it takes but a short time to accumulate a number of these beautiful sacks, and with a little imagination and ingenuity, she can turn them into many beautiful and useful articles. Web of Words Margery S. Stewart Aunt Nora Lee was not the silent type, Words bubbled up from her like water From the spring. When she peeled ripe Apples in the fall, she would be sure to say, "I do declare, why just awhile ago, These were blossoms waving in the sun, I did wish Apmil, this year, would be slow." Somehow in the pie or sauce would be The taste of Apmnil's sun-stirred witchery. No child was ever shut out in the dark, The way some grownups do, giving no thought For loneliness. Aunt Nora would embark On all the family history... Knew it well, But never dreamed the magic. That she spun All around herself. We followed everywhere, Enchanted. Her words were never done, The little phrases tumbling out to spin The web of love that drew us warmly in. Page 319 Karren Blanche M. Hollingsworth HE rain still beat against the windowpane. Only this morning she had said in her cute two-year-old way, ""What's 'at?" and I had answered, "It's the rain on the window. It looks like tears. I guess the sky is crying." Very seriously she had watched the drops of rain hit the top of the window and slowly trickle down the pane. Now, as I wandered alone through the house, I felt almost lost in my own home. Everything I looked at reminded me of her. In the living room four little finger marks were visible on the door just under the knob where plump fingers had held on, waiting to wave goodbye to Earl as he drove away to work this very morning. In the dining room, a few cookie crumbs were scattered on the rug in front of the fireplace. She had been © sitting there eating as she played with her doll house and its miniature furniture. One little chair she thought pretty she had placed on the rug and then sat on it. We couldn't help laughing at her expression when she looked at it and found it all flattened out. When I walked into the kitchen, the first thing I saw was the plastic bib she wore when she ate. It was hanging on the rack where I kept fancy kitchen towels. She would come running for me to tie the bib on and climb into her high chair. We had to move fast if we got seated before she folded her arms, closed her eyes tightly, and asked the blessPage 320 ing on the food. I took the bib, folded it carefully, and put it in the cupboard on the top shelf. She wouldn't eat one meal without the little spoon, and there it was, right where she had left it. It had been part of a set, but the fork had been lost. I put the spoon high in the cabinet, too. On the floor in the hall I found a shoe for her dolly. It had been put on and off the doll's foot so many times it wasn't even shaped like a shoe. I carried it with me as I went into the bathroom, where a tiny tooth brush hung low enough for her to reach. We had to keep the tooth paste so she couldn't reach it. At first she'd say, "'Et me, 'et me." 'Then she would squeeze a lot of paste on the brush and eat it just like candy. A dozen times a day she would want to brush her tiny teeth. Finally, we suspected it was for the paste alone, so we had to hide it on the top shelf. Now, I put the paste back on the lower shelf. A fancy, Christmas card box was on the chair in the bedroom. To her it meant the same as a cedar chest does to an older girl who is saving all the nice things for a trousseau. I opened the box and found an old earring, a rhinestone pin, a picture of a cat playing with a ball of yarn, the head of a little girl cut from a funny paper, and a miniature clothespin. At the bottom of the box was a sheet of paper with writing and drawings typical of a two- KARREN year-old who talks and explains all the time she scribbles across the paper. We had enjoyed her so much, and I shouldn't complain, because we had had her longer than we thought we could keep her. Her mother was home from the hospital 321 now, with a new baby, and Karren was all excited about seeing her baby sister. Two weeks is a long time for a little girl to be away from home. In a reasonable length of time I'll ask them if she can come visit with her grandma and grandpa again. ( AW XN OY Qt HIGHWAY IN VENEZUELA Elizabeth Williamson Tt toad from Caracas, the capital of Venezuela, to its largest seaport, Puerto Cabello on the Caribbean, takes roughly seven hours driving. The mountainous, winding road passes through green country—deep green jungles, blue green mountains, light green sugar-cane plantations. Up and down and around curves. Everyone seems to be an expert driver. He has to be. The villages and towns whiz by as we catch a glimpse of a cool tree-shaded plaza or a market place in the sun. The little huts straggle along the highway. There are a few trees near the huts, perhaps a pig or a cow if the people are lucky. There are chickens in almost every hut. In the distance we see an unusual tree, which seems to be full of white blooms. As we get closer, it looks as if it were lighted with hundreds of white globes. Then we see that the blossoms, or globes, are eggshells stuck on the branches of yucca trees. We stop to investigate these attractive trees, and are told by the owners who come out that many people stop to see their trees, and they seem quite proud to think we are interested. We are interested, because, after having travelled almost seven hours, it is the only original and creative thing we have seen from our car. It pleases us, somehow, to think that these people, instead of just tossing the shells on the ground, decided to put their empty eggshells on the points of the yucca trees and cause passersby to stop and exclaim at such an unusual sight. Magazine Subscriptions for 1952 Counselor Marianne C. Sharp GREAT appreciation is felt by the general board to the stakes and missions of the Church for the large increase in the number of Relief Society Magazine subscriptions in 1953. The number rose from 104,210 as of December 31, 1951 to 113,401 as of December 1952. 'There were 9,191 more subscribers to the Magazine in 1952 than in the year 1951.. The Relief Society Magazine is indispensable to the work of Relief Society, containing as it does all the lesson material, reports of Relief Society activities throughout the world, instructions to Relief Society officers, and records of historical importance. Distance is eliminated as a sister in a far country or on a distant farm in this country is enabled to keep pace with the great and enlightening work of Relief Society. To reach this greatly increased total of subscriptions has required devoted service of stake and ward officers and Magazine representatives who have performed their arduous duties throughout the year to maintain and increase their subscription lists. It has also necessitated the loyalty of Relief Society members and many non-members in support of the Magazine. It is hoped that all subscribers will read this Magazine of the women of the Church, and be encouraged and uplifted by the words of counsel and inspiration contained therein. There were fifty-two stakes in 1952 which attained a goal of 100% or over. Eighteen other stakes made increases ranging from ten to thirty-three per cent. The stake with the greatest per cent of increase was Nyssa with an increase of seventy-one per cent. In 1952 there were three missions which achieved a goal of over 100% —a new all-time record. The general board wishes to ex- ' press appreciation for the zeal of Magazine representatives, and the loyalty of Latter-day Saint women who have made it possible, in this day of rising costs, to continue the Magazine at its present subscription price. - +i Honors for Highest Ratings Stake South Los Angeles (California) 210% Magazine Representative—Nancy M. Rupp Ward South Gate Ward, South Los Angeles Stake (California) 284% Magazine Representative—Evelyn Ferrera Page 322 MAGAZINE SUBSCRIPTIONS FOR 1952 323 Mission Texas-Louisiana, 112% Mission Relief Society President—Leone R. Bowring | Mission District West Texas District, Texas-Louisiana Mission, 163% Mission Branch Alamo Branch, 320% South Texas District, Texas-Louisiana Mission Magazine Representative—Mae Pool Eleven Stakes Achieving Highest Percentages South Los Angeles (California) 210 Nyssa (Oregon) - ------22----1-20--ceceeceeeeeeeeeees207 San Joaquin (California) --..-----.-..--- 148. Provo (Utah) -.----.--s--c--ceceecesenceeeeseneeceness 135. Rexburg (Idaho) 2..--2..---0--ce-ee-ceeseoeeees 130. Oquirth (Utah) 2.0.2.2 ee eeeenceeeeeeeeeeeeeeee127. San Bernardino (California) - -. 125 Shelley (Idaho) 2.2..2.-2.-2s::0--c-sssseeseceeseenees123 Glendale (California) - 2.--s-2-+--0-00+ 122 Santa Monica (California) -..--.-+--+-+++ 122 Minidoka (Idaho) 2 -- 1:.. S--seeseseeeeesees122 Eleven Missions Achieving H Nancy M. Rupp -Mae A. Boyer Wealtha Mendenhall Flora Buggert Martha J. Erickson Beatrice W. Dimond Evelyn Wilde Heath Merle Young -Elsie Weber - Lillie K. Whitehead Myrtle C. Lloyd ighest Percentages Texas-Louisiana - 2 2:20--sececeeeeseenepeeeeeees 112 Western States -secsccssssceseeeseeseeceeeseesl ie Northern States - --.------ssceceseseeceeoseeeenees 104. Ce are 95- Central States _ u.2 s. Sssccecsseeceseeceneeeee Q5- Western Canadian -sesseceeeeeecneeeeees 91 North Central States - -.-----teceeeeeees 87. Northern California - 20.2 2--1-0-000-00 86. West Central States 2..-c-seeeseeeeeeeees 86. Northwestern States - -------s-seccseeeeeees 84. Southern States - ---c-:--c--ceeseeceeeeeeseeeeees 84. Leone R. Bowring, President Mildred Dillman, President Lucy T. Andersen, President LaPriel S. Bunker, President Annie M. Ellsworth, President - Elizabeth H. Zimmerman, President Laura M. Hawkes, President Amelia P. Gardner, President Ruby Bradshaw, President Mavil A. McMurrin, President Emily E. Ricks, President Eleven Stakes With Highest Number of Subscriptions No. No. Subscriptions Subscriptions South Los Angeles 1919 Moapa 821 Pocatello 943 Sevier 819 Blackfoot 939 Palmyra 813% Mount Ogden 894 Sugar House 800 Phoenix 893 Ensign 800 Glendale 829 Eleven Missions With Highest Number of Subscriptions No. No. Subscriptions Subscriptions Texas-Louisiana 1228 Northwestern States 709 Southern States 1124 Central Atlantic 693 eset Seine States — Northern Californi 6 Central States 1077 —— a — Western States 946 California 665 Great Lakes 847 Northern States 612 324 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1953 Stakes In Which All the Wards Achieved 100% or Above. East Los Angeles Zelma Beck Rexburg -..-.----. Martha J. Erickson Glendale -.--Elsie Weber San Bernardino Evelyn Wilde Heath Granite 2 --+-Clara Love San Fernando Helen Yaple Grant 2 222-2--++ Caroline R. Bennett San Joaquin Wealtha Mendenhall Idaho Falls - - re ei Shelley - e--e-on----- Merle Young Long Beach Ethel Spongberg South Box Elder Edith E. Baddley bey Idaho Falls "ae Ie i South Los Angeles.. Nancy Rupp 7 te oy Sugar House Alta W. Whitehead Oquirth --..--- Beatrice W. Dimond = %U84T THOUSE ----.-------. Pasadena -.------ Blanche B. Calvert Union ------------Leana M. See Pocatello - -----.---+--Edna J. Drake West Pocatello Reta C. Austin PLOVO 2.22----se-eneeeseeFlora Buggert Wilford ---- Thora Hunter Stakes by Percentages South Los Angeles 210 Ogden 104 Nyssa 207. Highland 103 San. Joaquin 148 Rigby: 102 Provo 135 Boise 102 Rexburg 130 =: San Juan 102 Oquirrh 127 Los Angeles 101 San Bernardino 125 'Taylor 101 Shelley 123 Bakersfield 101 Glendale 122 Mount Graham 100 Santa Monica 122 North Jordan 100 Minidoka 122 FPortneuf 100 East Los Angeles 121 St. George 99 East Long Beach 120 West Utah 99 Wilford 118 St. Joseph 99 San Fernando | 118 South Idaho Falls 99 Union 116 Sharon 98 Idaho Falls: 115 North Box Elder 98 West Pocatello 114 Wasatch 98 Pocatello 113. Phoenix 98 North Idaho Falls 112 Sacramento 98 Burley 111 Seattle 97 Inglewood 110 ~=Uvada 97 Sugar House 109 'Tacoma 97 Bear River 109 Denver 97 Long Beach 108 East Riverside 97 Liberty 108 Twin Falls 96 Granite 108 Malad 96 South Box Elder 107. East Mill Creek 9S East Provo ) 107 ~—_ Blackfoot 95 Cassia 107 Cottonwood 95 Grant 106 Weber 95 Moapa 106 Orem 95 Zion Park 105 Gooding 94 Bannock 105 Ensign 94 Oakland 105 Carbon 94 Pasadena 105 Palmyra 94 Bonneville 105 Palo Alto 93 South Salt Lake 105 Kolob 93 Sevier 105 Humboldt 92 Nampa 104 North Rexburg g2 San Francisco 104 Park 92 MAGAZINE SUBSCRIPTIONS FOR 1952 Uintah Mill Creek Maricopa Yellowstone Gridley Reno South Ogden University Teton Bountiful American Falls Santa Barbara Timpanogos East Rigby Mount Ogden Tooele Big Horn Alpine West Jordan Parowan Pioneer Southern Arizona Utah Washington Deseret Emigration Portland Bear Lake Blaine Cache Smithfield Ben Lomond East Cache Mount Jordan Oneida Hillside Raft River Young Florida Lake View Wells East Jordan Hyrum New York Murray Nevada Weiser South Bear River Santa Rosa Duchesne Snowflake Monument Park Mesa North Carbon E] Paso Farr West Riverside Mount Rubidoux Montpelier Idaho South Sevier Chicago Wayne Woodruff Franklin Alberta Berkeley Nebo North Davis Davis San Diego Panguitch Garfield Columbia River Benson Lost River North Weber Kanab North Sanpete San Luis Fresno Temple View Emery Lethbridge Lehi Cedar Star Valley Grantsville Salt Lake St. Johns Beaver Roosevelt Spokane, East Lethbridge Lyman Juarez South Summit Juab Logan Richland Willamette Summit Millard South Sanpete Moon Lake Mount Logan North Sevier South Carolina South Davis Morgan Gunnison Santaquin-Tintic Moroni Oahu Relief Society Alberta Stake Aetna 660 Cardston First — 65 Cardston Third 80 Cardston Fourth 68 Hartley Mountain View Taylorville 16 Jefferson Branch 15 Alpine Stake Alpine American American American American American American American Highland American Aberdeen American Rockland 93 Fork First 79 Fork Third 88 Fork Fourth 65 Fork Fifth 8&5 Fork Sixth 83 Fork Seventh 82 Fork Eighth - Falls Stake 316 Second Ta Falls 45 Springfield 30 Sterling Bakersfield Stake Bakersfield First 84 Bakersfield Second 46 Lancaster Porterville 25 Taft Delano Branch BA Wasco Branch 18 No. 513 EnrollSubscriptions ment Pet. HONOR ROLL-1952 Magazine Representative Afton Remington Iris Jensen Mary Ann Olsen Annie Steed Martha Wilkinson Zina Jensen Eva Jacobs Rowayne Wolsey Agnes Sherman Sadie Meredith Rea Fae Carlton Edith B. Jones Fay Chipman Ann C. Hansen Lillie Shafter Sylvia Walker Marie Reimschussel Hannah C. Ashby Ruby B. Day Harriet Peterson Harriet Peterson Maida H. Olsen Lela Hartley Marie Thurston Annie Nelson Ethel Phillips Alfrieta B. Moyes Erma Tribolet Barbara Jones Cecila Heindel Juanita Davis Juanita Brooks Zella McDonald Relief Society Ben Lomond Stake Lorin Farr North Ogden First Ogden Seventh Ogden Twenty-first Ogden Twenty-ninth Pleasant View Benson Stake Cornish Cove Lewiston Second Lewiston Third Richmond Richmond South Trenton Berkeley Stake Berkeley First Berkeley Second Claremont East Richmond Richmond Big Horn Stake Basin Burlington Byron Cody Cowley Lovell Lovell West Penrose Powell Worland EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pet. 761 664 87 104 119 Magazine Representative Maude P. Close Zella M. Garrison Edith V. Judkins Lenora Poorte Doris V. Richards Mary Archibald — Minnie G. Roylance Sarah Leavitt Florence Rich Mozell Boman Anna W. Mills Lois S. Austin Margaret A. Anderson Lydia Andrew Edna H. Brinton May Waldrum Adele Duncan Rose Gleason Lula Turner Vera Kellogg Elma S. Johnson Ona Scott Ida La Follette Margaret Winzenried Jaunita M. Barling Della Mathews Mable Cox Gladys M. Wilkerson Tilda Wasden Marie H. Jones Elizabeth Nielson 326 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1953 Bannock Stake Cleveland Grace First Grace Second Lago Thatcher Williams Bear Lake Stake Bloomington Fish Haven Garden City Laketown Lanark Liberty Ovid Paris First Paris Second St. Charles Sharon Bear River Stake Beaver East Garland Fielding Garland First Garland Second Howell Park Valley Plymouth Riverside Snowville Stone Beaver Stake Beaver Second Beaver Third Milford Second 352 369 51 48 67 80 9 & 36 39 51 = 58 51 BT 528 463 60 46 42 42 Ida J. Sorenson Vera Adams La Dean Hendricks May Revoir Norma Mickelson Naomi Robbins Rosezella Hanson Millie Sprouse Bertha C. Thornock Ethel Perkins Helen P. Cook Montry Kearl Le Reva Findlay Laura Poulsen Hazel L. Peterson Rosa Grandy Beulah H. Bird Vidella Booth Hazel Long Rennis A. Larkin Hilda Johnson Essie Peterson Voylet Grover Ida Hartman Rhoda Christopherson Virginia Kotter Elizabeth Hirschi Eathel Estep Cleo Forsberg Cora Daley Alta Hickman Ireta Morris Kate Bowman Mildred Wilcock Belfry Branch 6 Deaver-Framie Branch 21 Jona Branch Meeteetsee Branch Blackfoot Stake Blackfoot First Blackfoot Second Blackfoot Third Blackfoot Fourth Blackfoot Fifth Groveland Moreland Pingree Riverside Riverton Rose Wapello Blaine Stake Carey Richfield Shoshone Dietrich Branch Sun Valley Branch Boise Stake Boise First Boise Second Boise Third Boise Fourth Boise Fifth Boise Sixth Boise Highth Meridian Bruneau Branch Eagle Branch Grand View Branch Mountain Home Br. 9 1 Mary Youst Ellen Andrews Maggie Beal Alma Bennion Almira Clayton Edith. Belnap Floretta McCurdy Verda S. Clark Margaret Lamprecht Rose James Sarah J. Chapman Gladys W. Belnap Desa Cammack Faun Hansen Cassie Brown Donna Bishoff Virginia Rollinson Reta E. Orchard Merline Farnsworth Charlotte Reed Dellina Baumann Mary Cleaveland Clara Cope HONOR ROLL L. Emma Gordon Rinda Sudweeks Cora Fields Ida B. Cutler Leah Mihu Alice K. Francis. Phyliss Hanson LaMon Cheney Mae Fewkes Alta Cox Norma Marshall Alice M. Neilson é Barbara Johns S Relief Society Bonneville Stake Bonneville Douglas Garden Park Thirty-third Yale Yale Second Yalecrest Bountiful Stake Bountiful First Bountiful Third Bountiful Sixth West Bountiful Burley Stake Burley First Burley Second Burley Third Burley Fourth Burley Fifth Burley Sixth Declo Pella Springdale Star Unity View Cache Stake Logan Third Logan Fourth 'Logan Ninth Logan Fifteenth Logan Sixteenth Logan Seventeenth EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pct. 696 729 105 Magazine Representative Rhoda B. Carter Hannah Allen Mertie H. Richards Laura H. Clinger Delphia Marshall Chloe M. Jacobs Lottie Doering Josephine Sandberg Myrtle B. Hatch Dina M. Hansen Edith C. Clay Anna Bangerter Orla Hillhouse Leona Budge Theo Henderson Myrtle Higley Ethel Larsen Virginia Nichols Zelma Whittle Mary E. Tracy Gladys Darrington Jane Walker Josephine Manning Hannah Bowers Thelma E. Johnson Thelma Taylor Orilla J. Lucas Louise R. Rich Diana Willie Mabel L. Michaelsen Maye H. Thomas Clara Olsen Jeanette Bergerner Relief Society Vancouver Washougal Cottonwood Stake Big Cottonwood Cottonwood Holladay First Holladay Second Holladay Third Holladay Fourth South Cottonwood Davis Stake Centerville First Farmington Second Kaysville First Denver Stake Barnum Cheyenne Crestmore Denver First Denver Second Englewood Fort Collins Laramie Boulder Branch Spanish American Br. Deseret Stake Delta First Delta Second Delta Third Deseret ~ Leamington Lynndyl Oak City EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pet. 40 38 95 22 19 86 603 95 89% 84 125 97 78 Magazine Representative Emma Van Hovel Maud Dean Mildred A. Mollerup Gwen Lofgren Eudora Clements Violet W. Wimmer Mary Beth Gold Lillian F. Lamborn Virginia S. Pederson Elsa O. Fors Effie B. Miller Rosabelle Gwynn Katie E. Cunningham Myrtle Waite Bernice H. Brown Helen Bohn Verda Hatch Marian B. Lindsay Bernice H. Brown Lilly B. Williams Edell M. Quinn Katherine S. Staples M. M. Gibbs Bonnie Vandiviere Dorothy B. Villalabos Alpha Nielson Donna Sorenson LaPreal Justensen Leah Mortensen Inga Black Essie Anderson Alpha Nillson Adele Anderson 328 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1953 Carbon Stake Dragerton 64 Price First hadg Price Third 83 Price Fourth 95 Sunnyside 48 Wellington First 40 Wellington Second 44 Cassia Stake Basin 19 Grouse Creek 82 Marion 28 Oakley First 46 Oakley Second 47 Oakley Third 28 Cedar Stake Cedar First 87 Cedar Second 63 Cedar Fourth 87 College 85 New Castle 20 New Harmony 29 Chicago Stake Milwaukee 55 North Shore 51 West Suburban 42 Batavia Branch 6 Milwaukee South Br. 22 Park Forest Branch 19 Racine Branch 20 South Shore Branch 21 Columbia River Stake 428 Hood River 389 Laurelhurst 70 St. Helens 45 603 56512 94 Gertrude Edwards Vada Anderson Euphae Davis Louise Mabbutt Lucile Sillitoe Mae Self Myrtle Cook Ester Tidwell Jane R. Hale Ida Heiner Wilda Kimber Sarah Adams Ada L. Hale Jane R. Hale Irene B. Sutton Laura C. Nelson Ila Bawer Alba Hansen Florence Higbee Belle Hulet Millie Hall Florence G. Andrew Vivienne Hart Clara Force Helen Elkins Bertha Hayes Hertha Rathke Maurine Uzelloe Martha Hubert Amy Landeck Della V. Davis Nora West Mildred G. Anderson Lucy Kearsley Oasis 38 Sugarville 27 Sutherland 68 Callao Branch 14 Duchesne Stake Arcadia 30 Bridgeland 32 Hanna 21 Tabiona 41 Utahn Branch 26 East Cache Stake 622 Benson 89 Hyde Park 97 Logan Fifth 64 Logan Eighteenth 87 North Logan 68 College Hill Branch 13 East Jordan Stake East Midvale First 74 East Midvale Second 60 Garden View Midvale First 66 Union First 95 East Lethbridge Stake Taber Second 60 Burdett Branch 12 Montey Branch 9 East Long Beach Stake 599 Bellflower 99 Fullerton 84 Garden Grove 34 Huntington Beach 27 Lakewood 51 Long Beach Third Pat Long Beach Fifth Erma Skeen Lucille Ashby Nina Johnson Inez Tripp Ora N. Holgate Ida D. Horrocks Letta Meyers Pearl Turnbow Minnie Hamilton Ruth Broadhead Elsie P. Barker Chloe Ricks Gladys Hancey Abbey G. Jenson Mrs. D. A. Swenson Katie May Yost Carol Ewing Vida W. Fowles Louise P. Schmidt Ida Leafquist Hazel Anderson Leada Despain Lovenna S. Cook HONOR ROLL Norma Haseam Claire Ashton Ruth Bennett Margaret Bryan Susie Elsmore Elsie L. Phillips Elvira Bollschweiler Murl Fullmer Burnetta Ross Rene Gurich Alice Moffett 329 Relief Society Norwalk 69 Santa Ana 70 East Los Angeles Stake 599 Alhambra Belvedere 90 Eastmont 69 Mission Park 68 Montebello First 46 Montebello Second 37 Rosemead 48 Whittier First 66 Whittier Second 51 Dittman Branch rll East Mill Creek Stake Canyon Rim 26 East Mill Creek Evergreen 62 Garden Heights Highland View Rosecrest 65 East Provo Stake Provo Eighth 62 Provo Ninth 61 Provo Twelfth 50 Provo Thirteenth 45 Provo Fifteenth 59 Wymount Branch 70 East Rigby Stake 533 Garfield 33 Palisade 33 Rigby Second 53 Ririe First 60 No. 56 724 EnrollSubscriptions ment Pet. Magazine Representative Marjorie Sly Losania Wilde Zelma Beck Martha J. Dreiser Alberta Milligan Jennie Reep Ila P. Johnson Grace Mauss Helen McEuen Dora Ellis Helen A. Perkes L. H. Bingham Lucia Garcia Mary T. Maxfield Bonnie Landvatter Thelma B. Dansie Zella Gygi Bernice Russell Virginia Martin Marie Basinger Sarah H. Passey La Relle Elliott Theresia H. Muhiestein Genevieve E. Knudsen Ruby W. Hawkins Martha Stumph Glynna D. Reinsch Dale Burtenshaw Anna S. Christensen Margaret Cole Dortha Radford — Relief Society Mound Fort Ogden Fifteenth Slaterville Florida Stake Axson _ Lake City Palatke Springfield Wesconnett Gainesville Branch Oak Grove Branch Sanderson Branch Franklin Stake Fairview Mapleton Preston First Preston Second Whitney Fresno Stake Chowchilla Fresno First Avenal Branch Dinuba Branch Exeter Branch Hanford Branch Los Banos Branch Garfield Stake Antimony Boulder Circleville. Escalante North Kingston EnrollSubscriptions - ment No. Pet. Magazine Representative Phyllis Hufstetler Lu Jean Taylor Amelia E. Holley Renie E. Tompkins Margaret Mizell Ora Lee Milton Hilda Anderson Essie Coleman Mrs. W. H. Jammes Harriet E. Pearson Iva Williams Daisy Dobson Gladys Bosen Erma G. Raulings Alene A. Porter Mary A. Moser Chloe Peterson Laura L. Kindley Sovinia Christoffersen Mary L. Petty Frances Van Buren Emerald C. Mentzel Carrie Whitney Juanita Henson Eunice Swearingen Golda C. Haws Betty Wiley Nina T. Moosman Rose Beebe Julia C. Barnes Gail Coates 330 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1953 Ririe Second Shelton East Riverside Stake Fifteenth Sixteenth Twenty-eighth Thirty-fourth El Paso Stake El Paso First El Paso Second Las Cruces Silver City Deming Branch Truth or Consequences Branch Emery Stake Castle Dale Elmo Emery Orangeville Emigration Stake East Twenty-seventh North Twenty-first Twenty-first Twenty-seventh Ensign Stake North Eighteenth South Eighteenth North Twentieth East Ensign West Ensign Farr West Stake Farr West Marriott Alice Adamson Dale Burtenshaw Erma L. Haslam Johanna Barraclough Susan R. Earnshaw Eleanor Smith La Von H. Holgren Mary D. Pierce Winifred R. Turley Ruby S. Brown Mariam C. Johnson Rosetta Crowe Eva Moody Ina S. Peterson, Pres. Ione L. Kofford Lillian I. Oviatt Olene Andersen Pearl McCall Polly R. Griffin Viola L. Walton La Ver O. Nunley Sallie S. Keate Florence Murphy Susie Chase Winward Susanna F'. Kruys Goldie Despain Lena May Venter Jane Tibbals Florence S. Simmons Bertha R. England Jessie Taylor Sarah H. Parry Glendale Stake Elysian Park Garvanza Glendale East Glendale West Highland Park La Canada Sunset Sunland Branch Gooding Stake Fairfield Glenns Ferry Gooding Jerome First Jerome Second Granite Stake Columbus Fairmont Forest Dale Lincoln Nibley Park Wells Grant Stake Hillcrest Lorraine Ridgedale Smith Smith West Spring Glen Springview Wandamere Wandamere Park Grantsville Stake Grantsville First Grantsville Second Wendover Elsie Weber Frances Kelland Elizabeth Burnett Ellen Hudson Viola D. McIntire Henrietta Atkinson Emma Clark Alta Marie Posey Alberta Harris Vesta Blackburn Blanche Naser Leola Thurman Mary Roy Mary Coates Idella Walker Clara Love Toni Londvatter Lilly Soren Eloise Webb Margaret Walton Emma Armstrong Maize Roberts Caroline R. Bennett Belvereen Palmer Margaret Jones Helen B. Chamberlain Vivian Rice La Preal Ames Ellen Roberts | Estham Fort Iva Dell Holmberg Gladys M. Record HONOR ROLL Ione Cole Eva I. Worthington Frances Adams 331 Relief Society Gridley Stake Chico Grass Valley Oroville Yuba City Paradise Branch Gunnison Stake Axtell Gunnison Second Highland Stake Canyon Crest Crystal Heights East Stratford Highland Park Parleys Rosslyn Heights South Highland Park Stratford Hillside Stake Edgehill Mountain View South Edgehill Wasatch Humboldt Stake Carlin Elko Montello Winnemucca Ruby Valley Branch Hyrum Stake Hyrum First EnrollSubscriptions ment No. 335 991 80 88 6981, 86 155 89 86 «678 123 80 158% 121 Pet. Magazine Representative Violet Gray Orvilla Graham Katie Carter Violet Gray Fay Sorenson Phebe Brill Rhoda Jensen Lillian Conder Lucy Harman Marie Gerritsen Ida Coulam Marie Larsen Julia Brighton Maude G. Neeley Carmen Brown Marie F. Miller Alda Anderson Emily S. Parker Ruth Shupe Ella Keddington Vera C. Hurley Malaone Mumford Charlotte S. Ferguson Charlotte S. Ferguson Vera Crissey Beth Sevy Mary Cowan Bessie Neff Zelda J. Howells Angelin Smith Relief Society Kanab Stake Moccasin Mt. Carmel Orderville Kolob Stake Mapleton Springville Springville Springville Springville Springville Springville First Second Fourth Fifth Sixth Ninth Lakeview Stake Clinton Hooper First Hooper Second Kanesville Lakeview Riverdale Roy Arsenal Villa Branch Lehi Lehi Stake First Lehi Fourth Lehi Fifth Lethbridge Stake Calgary First Claresholm Orton Picture Butte Stavely Champion Branch High River Branch EnrollSubscriptions " ment jd 21 79 No. Pet. Magazine Representative 332 Nora M. Heaton Mina Gardner Hester P. Heaton Ivy C. Anderson Ardilla Perry Addie Underwood Eudora Jensen Rose Roylance Venna A. Reese Sara R. Hyde Ellen Larson Allie K. Freestone Lyle Burnett Manita Suiter Margaret N. Vaughn Clara Fletcher Lyma B. Cook Pearl Champneys Ruby Olmstead Doris Royer Hazel May Bone Ada Allred Frances J. Comer Helen Faulkner Luella Rice Lilly Derricott Lucille Karren Ida L. Rodgers Carolyne M. Davies Dorothy Golightly RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1953 Hyrum Second Hyrum Third Millville Paradise Wellsville First Wellsville Second Idaho Stake Bancroft Chesterfield Hatch Kelly-Toponce Lund Idaho Falls Stake Idaho Falls Second Idaho Falls Fifth Idaho Falls Ninth Iona Lincoln Inglewood Stake Centinela Inglewood Lawdale Lennox Morningside Park Redondo Torrance Westchester Juab Stake Nephi First Nephi Third Juarez Stake Dublan Juarez — 44 65 38 53 86 82 Ann Anderson Vella N. Eliason Merle Jenson Zelda J. Howells Ethel Jones Catherine Myers Jennie S. Gilbert Grace Mickelson Buenta Muir Rosa Rindlisbaker Margaret Hebdon Edna Darlington Ila Stoddard Eva Holland Estella Salisbury Hazel Dixon Johanna Scorsby Amy Hansen Magdalen Lake Afton Broberg Carrie T. Ely Irene White Geraldine Lystrup Verna Edwards Marie B. Harden Hortense B. Smith Bernice Chapman Ireta Park May B. Petty Melvina Jones Maud J. Shetten Liberty Stake Eighth Harvard Liberty Liberty Park Ninth North Eighth Second South Harvard South Second Third Logan Stake College Long Beach Stake Compton First Compton Second Long Beach First Long Beach Second Long Beach Fourth Long Beach Sixth Lynwood San Pedro Wilmington Los Angeles Stake Adams Arlington Hollywood La Brea Westwood Wilshire Lost River Stake Leslie Lost River Salmon First Salmon Second 719 117 Minerva F. Miller Desta Cope Carrie Spence Alice Russell Ruth Cummens Gertrude Waldo Janet O'Driscoll Stella D. Visarrage Elizabeth Wesman Mae Thompson Rachel D. Garff HONOR ROLL Nettie Abrams Ethel Spongberg Gladys R. Spence Annie L. Anderson Sails C. Boyle Geraldine Klaeger Mary E. McKinney Louisa Rich Isabella Myers Lila Lindegren Edith M. Harris Kathryn N. Appel Velma Shurley Clarissa Kopp Charlotte O'Connor Victoria H. Smith Jessie Furby Evelyn Anderson Ruth Olsen Evelyn Pearson Lucy Grufaz De Leath Rice 333 Relief Society Lyman Stake Lyman Manilla Mountain View Rawlins Rock Springs First Farson Branch Malad Stake Cherry Creek Holbrook Malad First Malad Second Malad Third Pleasant View Portage St. John Samaria Maricopa Stake Lehi Mesa First Mesa Fourth Mesa Sixth Mesa Tenth Mesa Twelfth Mesa Fourteenth Pine Tempe Mesa Stake Alma Gilbert Mesa Second Mesa Fifth Mesa Seventh EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pet. Magazine Representative Elva Oaks Etnelein Twitchell Cora Hamblin Lucille Butterfield Elizabeth Williams Olive Jones Mary B. Bush Maisie Williams Evelyn C. Nalder Pearl W. Thomas Beth B. Facer Tressa Swenson Mrs. Ralph R. Davis La Vell Parkinson Anna Lyle M. Jones Verla Hill Esther Miller Florabel Taylor Vera Lesueur Mabel Reed Mathonia Magnusson Thora Hamblin Mae Miner Freda Allred Chloe B. Randall Florence H. Bateman Lola White Nellie Stewart Lalone Farnsworth Violet Whipple Iris G. Miller Imogene Chapman Relief Society Las Vegas Sixth Mesquite Littlefield Overton Davis Dam Branch Pahrimp Branch Montpelier Stake Bern Cokeville Geneva Montpelier: First Montpelier Second Montpelier Third Nounan Raymond Wardboro Monument Park Stake Beacon Beacon Second Hillside Indian Hills Monument Park Moon Lake Stake Bluebell Boneta Mount Emmons Talmage Morgan Stake Croydon North Morgan Peterson Richville EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pct. 105 104 109 102 100 100 Magazine Representative Marie Horsley Nelda Houston Vinda Reber Jane Jones Mary Lou S. Reeder Mary Christensen Mrs. O. T. Parker Myrtle Steckler Ella Hunsaker Barbara T. Tueller Marie Glauser Nina Rich Olive J. Michaelson Mary Minnig Donna Eschler Genevieve Kunz Hazel Swain Venice Rosevear Letha Hart Erma Williams Bessie Crandall Pearl Bills Sylvia Goodrich Jennie Brotherson Elviria Snow Alice B. Sorensen Faye London Julia Carrigan Althea Carrigan Anona Dickson 334 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1953 Queen Creek Hayden Branch Superior Branch Millard Stake Flowell Meadow Millcreek Stake Millcreek First Millcreek Second Millcreek Third Valley Center First Valley Center Second Winder Minidoka Stake Acequia Emerson Hazelton Heyburn First Heyburn Second Paul Rupert First Rupert Second Rupert Third Hunt Branch Moapa Stake Boulder City Bunkerville Henderson Kingman Las Vegas First Las Vegas Second Las Vegas Third Las Vegas Fourth Las Vegas Fifth Betty King Lettie Pratt Josephine Farley Rose Christensen Deneice Averett Ethel A. Smith Grace Park Dona Korons Joanne P. Orton Mathilde S. Breitling Clara Howlett Lola N. Taylor Myrtle C. Lloyd Ella Harrison Louie Mae Mecham Delilah J. Wickham Bessie Thaxton Mary B. Wilcox Veda Platts Lilith M. Hobbs Winifred Aston Eva O. Lowder Mary Lou Christionsen Florence A. Johnson Wilma Imlay Tamsen Adams Lucille Tweedie Minnie E. Stowell Belle Hall Luella B. Thornton Harriet Hicks Carrie G. Beatty Dorothy Goshen Mt. Graham Stake Duncan Franklin Layton First Layton Second Lordsburg Safford Solomonville Virden Animas Branch Gila Branch Lebanon Branch Mt. Jordan Stake Crescent Draper First Draper Second Granite Sandy First Sandy Fourth Mount Logan Stake Logan Thirteenth River Heights Mount Ogden Stake Highland Ogden Fifth Ogden Twelfth Ogden Twenty-third Ogden Twenty-fourth Ogden Thirty-third Mt. Rubidoux Stake Corona Elsinore Hemet Ontario Pomona Myrtle Tenney Jennie Johnson Marie Goodman May Bell Humphrey Clara Nelson Ruth B. Barnes Itha Booth Annie Larson Erma Lines HONOR ROLL _Arminta Richens Carrie Lee Nina Uptain Bertha S. Powell Lydia M. Carroll Alice W. Stay Loe E. Gordan Kaye W. Morgan Beth Bateman La Preal Morris Emily H. Anderson Ila J. Wood Martha Tolman Jane Horner; Doratha Shifflet Arminta Smith Bessie Adam Mary E. Shurtliff Hilda Peel Muriel E. Veach Lillian Pollan Reva Kribs Lucille Plumb Elizabeth Apgood 335 Relief Society Riverside Perris Branch Murray Stake Grant Murray First Murray Fourth Murray Fifth Murray Sixth Murray Seventh Nampa Stake Caldwell Homedale Kuna Melba Nampa First Nampa Second Nampa Third Nampa Fourth Black Canyon Branch Star Branch Nebo Stake Park Payson First Payson Second Payson Third Payson Fourth Payson Fifth Spring Lake West Nevada Stake Ely Second Lund McGill Ruth EnrollSubscriptions ment No. 82 21 69 84 24 114 593% 83 824 101 Pct. Magazine - Representative Blanche Wright Prissilla Smuin Clara M. Duffin Blanche S. Bradford Lucile C. Jones Faye Eustance Mary Ann Jensen Gertrude Smith Fawn S. Noren Isabell Svedin Esther Rush Rose Buck Idaho Hatch Ruby Johnson Blanche Woolard Virginia Hunter Annimay Zesiger Hanna Castagnets Esther Sweet Emily Kent Emma Wilson Ethel T. Hiatt Rhea C. Hone Mary Swain Clara B. Orton Nellie C. Kapple Fredericka Wyler Maxine Moore Zora Hurst Susan A. Mulliner Susan A. Mulliner Ella Faucett Ann Edwards Maud Mifflin Relief Society Idaho Falls Thirteenth 100 Osgood Ucon North Jordan Stake Bennion Granger First Granger Second Granger Third Hunter Redwood Taylorsville First Taylorsville Second North Rexburg Stake Hibbard Newdale Plano Rexburg First Sugar City North Sanpete Stake Fairview South Milburn Mt. Pleasant Third Mountainville Spring City North Sevier Stake Salina First Vermillion North Weber Stake Ogden Third Taylor Wilson 64 104 74 118 EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pct. 104 116 104 Magazine Representative Agnes J. Price Maurine Freeman Elva Andrus Elthura Mackay Blanche Parker Martha M. Stevens Louise W. Scott Malinda H. Christensen Ella M. Dean Louisa Skog Elsie Barker Rosalma Van Buskirk Arvilla Parkinson Mary Surey Zola Allen Arvilla Parkinson Eva Summers Pearl Hamilton Araminta Clement Clara Stewart Lucille R. Seely Vera Shelley Bergetta Jensen Donna Mae Jackson Henrietta Thalman Martha M. Burnett Melba Favero Sarah H. Holmes 336 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1953 New York Stake East Orange 46 42 Manhattan 28 8380 Queens 41 42 Uniondale 82 24 North Box Elder Stake 578 Bear River City 14 74 Brigham Third 81 88 Brigham Fourth 92 93 Brigham Seventh 61 73 Brigham Eighth 98 90 Corinne 90 75 Harper 21 20 Honeyville 61 52 North Carbon Stake Carbonville 42 42 Helper 83 96 Storrs 42 37 Clear Creek Branch 8620 Scofield Branch 21 19 North Davis Stake Clearfield First Clearfield Second 58 = =5b4 Layton Third Layton Fourth Sunset 56 46 Syracuse No. Idaho Falls Stake Coltman Ga Idaho Falls First Idaho Falls Fourth Idaho Falls Seventh 74 81 Idaho Falls Tenth 29 49 Glenette C. Jones Elizabeth M. Carpenter Mary Wittorf Grace F. Miller Anne Koenig Christina N. Bott Lorena Waddoups Fern Channell Ivy O. Fuller La Vina S. Hansen Lavinia C. Clark Meltrude A. Nelson Barbara H. Jeppsen Daisy Duke Lydia Bendall Dale Johnson Estella B. Gale Florence J. Anderson Elsie Hansen Sarah Donaldson Ethel Holt Elsie Bennett Mary Banz Vera A. Adams Lola Durrant Luella Carver Iva Jensen Janet L. Landon Marion Judd Elizabeth Elg Anna Sibbett Florence Jensen Theresse Shore Nyssa Stake Nyssa First Nyssa Second Ontario Owyhee Parma Vale Oahu Stake Kailua Oakland Stake Alameda Castro Valley Dimond Elmhurst Hayward Maxwell Park Oakland San Leandro Centerville Branch Livermore Branch Ogden Stake Eden Huntsville Liberty Ogden Fourth Ogden Sixth Ogden Thirteenth Ogden Twentieth Ogden Thirty-first Ogden Thirty-fifth Ogden Thirty-sixth Oneida Stake Banida Dayton Glendale Mae A. Boyer Edries Jones Gladys Feik Wanda Mortimer Edna Hartley Rena Weber Avis Belnap HONOR ROLL Eleanor Ludloff Agnes M. Nelson La Vina H. McRae Della L. Eck Lila F. Graham Essie Pollock Ann Livingston Francine De Vries Dorothy Hedges Agnes M. Nelson Marie Lindsay Della MeLanglin Chloe F. Summerill Catherine Stalling Ann Johansen Florence S. Hill Theo G. Johansen Elizabeth Thompson Ramona P. Snow Ruth Williams Ada Egginton Madge Crawford Lucille Forsberg Leona P. Winger Ada Bell Ila Jones Eulalia W. Larsen 337 Relief Society Preston Third Preston Fourth Preston Seventh Riverdale Treasureton Winder Oquirrh Stake Garfield First Garfield Second Hercules Magna First Magna Second Pleasant Green First Pleasant Green Second Spencer Orem Stake Beverly Geneva Orem First Sharon Timp View Vermont Vineyard Windsor Palmyra Stake Birdseye Lake Shore Leland Palmyra Salem Spanish Fork First Spanish Fork Second Spanish Fork Third Spanish Fork Fourth EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pct. 67 88 107 46 21 35 551 127 56% 111 113 133 126 122 119 92 144 113% 144 Magazine Representative Amy S. Kern Anna F. Palmer Verneta Larson Dorothy H. Packer Vera Atkinson Leona P. Winger Beatrice W. Dimond Zelma Payne Earlean McGee Mary Coe Ida Beckstead Izella Jeppson Leatrus Turner Mabel Martin Florence Reid Alice Harris Eva Hulet Thelma Benson Eliza Anderson Fern Laudie Donna Pullman Mildred Jacobsen Mae Schroder Cora Hooley Juanita J. Howard Rachel Spencer Bessie Atwood Katheryn Huff Tressa Sorenson Dora H. Cloward Mable E. Wood Lucy Hill Mildred Houston Gladys Christmas Relief Society North, El Monte Pasadena South Pasadena Phoenix Stake Capitol Glendale Phoenix Phoenix Phoenix Phoenix Phoenix Phoenix Phoenix Eighth Phoenix Ninth Scottsdale Avondale Branch Buckeye Branch Pioneer Stake Cannon Edison Glendale Park First Glendale Park Second Jordan Park Riverview Twenty-fifth Thirty-second Thirty-fifth Pocatello Stake Fort Hall Inkom Pocatello Second Pocatello Fourth Pocatello Sixth Pocatello Seventh Pocatello Eighth First Second Fourth Fifth Sixth Seventh EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pct. 117 111 103 68 82 Magazine Representative Anna D. Hales Viola M. Bean Helen Baxter Florence M. Broberg Edna Pugh Smith Julia Kremer Alta Mathews Nancy Lou Harlenson Belle Herndon Ruth Helen Williams Ruby Palmer Edna Hoyte Chesta Campbell Ellen Owens Cornelia Worthen Maydell Comovaloff Ethel Gable Jessie Johnson Lillian Van Leuven Joyce Ferguson Elna Buehn Margaret Stoll Marie Taylor Elizabeth S. Warren Emma M. Jensen Anna Albertsen Edith Murry Edna J. Drake Zilla Hall Ada Hall Helga H. Pugmire Esther W. Johnson Eva B. Barrow Velma Bailey Gladys Dennis 338 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1953 Spanish Fork Fifth Spanish Fork Sixth Spanish Fork Seventh Thistle Branch Palo Alto Stake Burlingame Naglee Park San Jose San Mateo Willow Glen Panguitch Stake Hatch Panguitch North Park Stake First Tenth Thirty-first Duncan Emigration Le Grand Princeton Webster Parowan Stake Enoch Paragonah Parowan First Parowan Second Parowan Third Summitt Pasadena Stake Baldwin Park East Pasadena El Monte Las Flores Monrovia Alice Runolfson Flora Bell Davis Anna Hallam Ethel W. Anderson Sarah Avery Iris W. Pickering Eliza J. Horsfield Virginia Neeman Harriet S. Zeitschel Bessie Corbett Hazel Sevey Effie J. Deuel Thelma Orton Lillie S. Schricker Clara Dittman Lamecia W. Pierce Ellen J. Proctor Winifred Poulter E. La Vern Hauks Doris O. Higbee Afton C. Thomas Gertrude M. Halson Betty M. Sorenson Cora B. Murie Erma Lamoreaux Mildred Gilger Nina Taylor Vera Mortensen Clara Bryant Blanche B. Calvert Ardella Hackford Marie Doezie Edith B. Nelson Celeste Bridges, Pres. Gladys B. Johnson Pocatello Twelfth Pocatello Thirteenth Pocatello Fourteenth Pocatello Fifteenth Portland Stake Colonial Heights Moreland Oregon City Hillsboro Branch MeMinnville Branch Portneuf Stake Arimo Cambridge Downey Garden Creek Lava Hot Springs McCammon Swan Lake Virginia Provo Stake Manavu Provo First Provo Fifth Provo Seventh Provo Tenth Provo Sixteenth Raft River Stake Elba Malta Moulton Yost Sublett Branch Reno Stake Hawthorne © Lovelock Rachel Swisher Mary Davidson Erma Summers Veda Ranstrom Dolores Zabelle Dadny Schade Hattie W. Carlson Vanda Marchant Erma R. Fox Theresa F. Imlah Ada L. Parris Merle C. Tippets Vella Bloxham Margaret Yearsley Ethel Henderson Emma Rawsell Wynona M. Glass Marie Henderson Freda R. Hart Flora Buggert Flora Buggert Beatrice D. Black Ida C. Wolsey Mary Josie Eva Thorsen Edyth R. Maxfield Alice 0. Neddo Inez Pettingill Alice O. Neddo Luella Nelson Viola Tracey Lois Anderson Louise L. Bell Ada M. Jensen Florence Nilich HONOR ROLL _ 339 Relief Society Mt. Rose Reno Sparks East Sparks West Westwood Carson City Branch Portola Branch Rexburg Stake Archer Burton Independence Lyman Rexburg Second Rexburg Third Rexburg Fourth Rexburg Fifth Rexburg Sixth Richland Stake Pasco-Kenniwick Toppenish Walla Walla Yakima Rigby Stake Annis Grant Hamer Lewisville Menan First Menan Second Rigby First Rigby Fourth Roberts Terreton Beaver Creek Branch EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pet. Magazine Representative Barbara B. Pace Fern Andriola Agnes Kenfield Florence B. Nelson Mary A. Young Ruth Meachan Leah D. Williams Martha J. Erickson Norah Grover Leone Beattie Margaret Barber Jessie Moulton Myrtle Bell Wanda Hunziker Sibyl J. Smith Vena Frost Mary N. Moore Nina B. Erickson Agnes B. Ferguson Irene D. Harrison Olga Paradis Sara Simmons Lucy Brown Ruby Pinnock Amelia Smuin Olive Cuthbert Alta Qualman Erma Gunderson Audra Peterson Ann W. Nielsen Ruth Marriott Maurine Peterson Deoine Thompson Relief Society St. Johns Stake Alpine 19 Eagar First 69 Luna 27 Nutrioso 9 St. Joseph Stake Bryce 20 Central 56 Eden 18 Ft. Thomas 25 Globe 50 Miami 55 Pima Thatcher Salt Lake Stake Capitol Hill Nineteenth 85 North Seventeenth Twenty-second 94 Twenty-third 37 San Bernardino Stake 308 Colton 51 Fontana 47 Redlands 23 San Bernardino First 60 San Bernardino Second 53 San Bernardino Third 31 Victorville 16 Yucaipa Branch an San Diego Stake El Cajon 48 Hillerest 61 La Mesa 85 EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pet. 89 88 96 144 Magazine Representative 340 Jessie Jepson Arline N. Gibbons Clara B. Laney Ruby Rogers Nira P. Lee Nellie Dixon Winnie Smith Viola Colvin Hazel B. Bryce Veda Blain Ella Sims Zela McBride Sarah N. Hales Mary L. Fawcett Marie M. Hardwick Mary E. M. Jackson Lydia Westberg Clara Overson (Pres.) Evelyn Wilde Heath Artie Davis Alice S. Walker Elna Nickles Laura Lee Hilliker Susie E. Powell Dorothy H. Mumford Zetta Nielson Dora Tolman Sarah C. Bodily Beatrice I. Godbold Virginia B. Acheson Della Campbell RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1953 Riverside Stake Center Riverside Rose Park Second Rose Park Third Roosevelt Stake Ballard Bennett Ioka Roosevelt Second Whiterocks Sacramento Stake Carmichael Del Paso Fair Oaks Roseville Sacramento First Sacramento Third Sacramento Fourth Woodland Auburn Branch Placerville Branch St. George Stake Central Gunlock Ivins Leeds Mt. Trumbull Pine Valley St. George First St. George Second St. George Third St. George Fourth St. George Fifth St. George Sixth Santa Clara 457 367 Winnie B. Stevenson Pearl F. Jones Hillevi Daniels Agnes Ficklin Geraldine G. Hanni Myrtle Winn Mary E. Horrocks Ellen Timothy Adella Rowley Myrtle Hoops Martha Gattiker Myrle Bolls Minnie E. McQueen Eileen C. Levin Nida B. Morey Margherita Singleton Ella Haag Naomi Koford Vendla Gordon Alice Ursenbach Goldy T. Baker Agnes Pickett La Rue Cannon Maybell Hunt Fern M. Hafen Etta M. Mariger Rebecca Bundy Maude Gardner Edna Cunningham Dorothy Alldredge Ella B. Nielson Vilate Leavitt Alma Spendlove Leila K. Atkin Selina Hafen National City 43 North Park 81 Ocean Beach 42 Pacific Beach 58 San Fernando Stake 622 Burbank 90 Encino 43 North Hollywood First 91 North Hollywood Second 39 Reseda 'e2 San Fernando 62 Sherman Oaks 58 Studio City 719 Van Nuys ' 68 Newhall Branch 14 Woodland Hills Branch 16 San Francisco Stake 349 Balboa 58 Mission 64 San Francisco 94 San Rafael 56 Sunset 17 San Joaquin Stake 383 Modesto 82 Oakdale 29 Stockton First 74 Stockton Second 56 Tracy 29 Turlock 42 Brentwood Branch 22 Ione Branch 18 Lodi Branch 16 Manteca Branch 15 San Juan Stake Blanding 92 Grayson 96 Allagonda C. Lund Josephine Gallacher Virginia Blackwood Naomi P. Hodgson Helen Yaple Jane Reynolds Mable Tolley Elizabeth Jacobs Wanda Hibbard Leona Corum Margarite Britton Zelpha Nowlin Duella McCoomb Norma Nichols Helen Smith Rose Franklin HONOR ROLL Josephine T. Danford Beatrice Simister Gladys Parker Donna Hopkins Mary E. Spencer Alice M. Ray Wealtha Mendenhall Iva H. Allen Mary C. Rich Elva Wolfenbarger Ella J. Hart Sarah S. Dana Nora Cardon Alice Lewis Thodora Thomas Georgia Thomas Afton Hamilton Vivian W. Redd wy Elizabeth Brown ~_ Relief Society Moab Monticello San Luis Stake Alamosa La Jara Santa Barbara Stake Ojai San Luis Obispo Santa Maria Santa Paula Ventura Lompoc Branch Paso Robles Branch Santa Monica Stake Brentwood La Cienega Mar Vista Santa Monica Westdale Santaquin-Tintic Stake Goshen Elberta Branch Santa Rosa Stake Napa Santa Rosa Ukiah Fairfield Branch Petaluma Branch Seattle Stake Bellingham Everett EnrollSubscriptions ment No. 75 93 Pet. 100 83 Magazine Representative Elma Dalton Nora Christensen Opal McDaniel Sarah Frederiksen Edith G. Swonger Zelpha P. Marengo Leah P. Godfrey Eleanor Danny Isabell Patch Jean Davis Thelma E. Lewis Elsie A. Bloomgren Lillie K. Whitehead Frances D. Kolarik Irene G. Olson Sylvia N. Petersen Nettie G. Smith Helen Hanson Elaine Kirk Harriet E. Barney Eva Southwick Adelaide B. Wigington Judith Lindelof Lucy Shupe Joy Gatting Virginia Terribilini Chelta D. Brown Maurine Robinson Beth Paskett Relief Society Goshen Jameston Kimball Shelley First Shelley Second Shelley Third Taylor Woodville Smithfield Stake Clarkston Newton Smithfield First Smithfield Second Smithfield Third Smithfield Fourth Snowflake Stake Claysprings Flagstaff Heber Holbrook Joseph City - Lakeside Pinedale Snowflake Snowflake Second Winslow Woodruff Linden Branch MeNary Branch So. Bear River Stake Elwood Penrose Tremonton First Tremonton Second EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pct. 111 129 141 148 109 114 103 113 Magazine Representative Ellen Dye Viola Hillman Florence Gifford Lottie Robinson Thelma Howell Arita Van Eps Pearl Clark Edna Kotter Althea Perkins Sadie Hansen Francis C. Rigby Jessie Littledike Florence Geary Addie Chambers Rebecca P. Larson Elizabeth S. Baldwin Aurelia Plum Martha W. Thomas Ruth S. Porter Maud J. DeWitt Gladys McLaws Gwenn Penrod Jane M. Jackson Nelda G. Hunt Wilmirth R. Gibson Ruby McHood Lorena Smithson Grace Wilson Laura B. Willis Marjorie Stenquest Jausine Peterson Lena M. Jensen Ruth Castleton Hazel Ramson 342 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1953 Renton Seattle First Seattle Second Seattle Third Seattle Fourth Seattle Fifth Seattle Sixth Arlington Branch Monroe Branch Oak Harbor Branch Sedro Woolley Sevier Stake Glenwood Koosharem Richfield First Richfield Second Richfield Third Richfield Fourth Richfield Fifth Richfield Sixth Sigurd Venice Sharon Stake Edgemont First Edgemont Second Grand View Second Hill Crest Lake View Lincoln Oak Hills First Oak Hills Second Pleasant View Timpanogos Shelley Stake Basalt Firth Mabel McKilrath Elsye W. Knight Gwen Treadwell Arleta C. Calkins Vilma A. Hanson Addie Carlton Mary B. Glenn Una Carlson Fern Gall R. Louise Barnett Florence Reiter Beth V. Anderson Lois Sorenson Etta Crawford Myrtle C. Brown Edith T. Harward Pearl Farnsworth Ethel A. Dastrup Jane Y. Pollett Luceal Kramer Emily Nebeker Jennie Cowley Edna M. Hansen Florence G. Dalton Maxine W. Davis Mary Stephenson Zeda Emmons Minnie Nuttall Anna Millet Pearl J. Pharis Mary S. Bankhead Ruth C. Meldrum Amanda Bigelow Merle Young Thelma Hoskins Florence Hanny Tremonton Third Tremonton Fourth So. Box Elder Stake Brigham City First Brigham City Second Brigham City Fifth Brigham City Sixth Mantua Perry Willard South Carolina Stake Charleston Gaffney Augusta Branch South Davis Stake Val Verda 50. Idaho Falls Stake Ammon Idaho Falls Third Idaho Falls Sixth Idaho Falls Eighth Idaho Falls Eleventh Idaho Falls Twelfth So. Los Angeles Stake Downey First Downey Second Grant Huntington Park Manchester Matthews Maywood Miramonte South Gate Vermont Walnut Park 94 487 120 Lillian Barfuss Eliza Woodruff Edith E. Baddley Artie Sessions Bernice H. Earl Myrtle Clifford Jayne W. Bergstrom Amy D. Larsen Ruth G. Hirschi Faye Lofthouse HONOR ROLL Edna Wells Ila Black Laverne Holley Edna L. Dastrup Valeria Blotter Lena Linewebber Azilea Johnson Jemima Asper Beth Hayes Carma Aird Wanda Johnson Nancy Rupp Kathern Clift Ora Elmer Alice Taylor Eldora Reeves Bernice Little Bertha Milius Avilda Kowalski Josie Newey Evelyn Ferrera Eva Miller Nellie Hunter 343 Relief Society South Ogden Stake Ogden Fourteenth Ogden Eighteenth Ogden Twenty-sixth Ogden Ogden Twenty-eighth Ogden Thirty-fourth South Weber South Salt Lake Stake Burton Central Park Eldredge Granite Park Haven Miller North Central Park Southgate South Sanpete Stake Ephraim North Ephraim South South Sevier Stake Annabella Central Elsinore Joseph Marysvale Monroe North Monroe South Sevier South Summit Stake Marion Peoa Woodland EnrollSubscriptions ment No. 803 107 93 106 Twenty-seventh 61 139 99 51 651 730 0=— 91 Pet. Magazine Representative Shirley R. Carter Addie T. Nelson Lura C. Wright Ellen N. Brewer Charlotte C. Langford Margie Yost Luella Brown Virginia Stanger Hedy T. Davies Martha Reinhold Ida Johnson Irene Urry Margaret Brown Anne Anderson Ada Prescott Evelyn Harrison Lillian Woolsey Dora Sparks Delta Breinholt Louise Christiansen Sylvia Davis Betty Hansen Myrtle Marquardson Lucina Parker Ruth Allred Grace M. Ashcroft Ruth Parsons Lillian Bridges Melba Beal Lorna Milliner Francell Gines Relief Society Tacoma First Tacoma Second Tacoma Third Auburn Branch Buckley Branch Port Orchard Branch Shelton Branch Taylor Stake Magrath First Magrath Second Raymond Second Raymond Third Raymond Fourth Stirling Welling Coutts Branch Tyrells Lake Branch Warner Branch Wrentham Branch Temple View Stake Fourth Sixth-Seventh McKinley Teton Stake Bates Cedron Chapin Clawson Darby Driggs First Driggs Second Jackson Pratt Tetonia Grovont Branch EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pet. 79 108 Magazine Representative Beth I. Chipman Wilma Brechbiel Irene Howell Elaine Krotzer Helen S. Smith Myra Eunis Bernadene Ramin H. Della Blumel Maizie Toomer Amy Fossey Rhoda Allred Esther J. Anderson Ruby Holland Elsie Perrett Mary Chipman Emily Collet Mary Hamling Etta Ellingson Eva Siewert Melinda A. Morris Helen R. Hemingway Edith Anderson Ruby F. Christiansen Marjorie Bates Leatha Kunz Annie Stone Marie Little Ruth Smith Hattie Salkield Thelma Jackson Ila Tanner Joyce Kaufman Hattie Hatch Shirley Moulton 344 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1953 Southrn. Arizona Stake 492 433 Bisbee Douglas St. David Tucson First Tucson Second Tucson Third Whitewater Willcox Nogales Spokane Stake Coeur d'Alene North Spokane Pullman Sandpoint Star Valley Stake Bedford Etna Fairview Freedom Grover Smoot Thayne Sugar House Stake Bryan Emerson Hawthorne Marlborough Richards Sugar House Summit Stake Hoytsville Echo Branch Tacoma Stake Bremerton Olympia Puyallup Al 47 60 92 67 71 89 17 Edna B. Allred Bernice Wright Edna Huish Florence Bateman Louisa Done Mrs. A. O. Stephens E. Bernice Wells Ida Nelson Lucille M. Williams Camilla Smith (Pres.) Emma Masten Ruth E. Newport Ruth T. Harston Ruth Decker Clarice Wolfley Marjorie Ivie Maud K. Ranzenberg Alice Ivie Laura C. Astle Mable Bruce Martha V. McKim Alta W. Whitehead Catherine Sipkema Katie Fairbanks Mayme Stevens Gladys Isaacson Vera Schmitt Gene H. Pease Blanche Crittenden Almeda §S. Richins Afton Dickson Alta Christensen Ella Carruth Bertha L. Fowler Timpanogos Stake Grove Lindon Manila 517 Pleasant Grove First 105 Pleasant Grove Second 8&5 Pleasant Grove Third 76 Tooele Stake Lake View Stockton Tooele Second Tooele Fifth Tooele Sixth Tooele Seventh Tooele Eighth Tooele Ninth Vernon Deseret Branch East Tod Branch West Tod Branch Twin Falls Stake Buhl Second Kimberly Twin Falls First Twin Falls Second Twin Falls Third Twin Falls Fourth Castleford Branch Filer Branch Uintah Stake Ashley Davis Glines Lapoint Maeser First Maeser Second 463 Ora Thorne Fern Smith Ella Smith Reva Allen Ethel Fenton Alice Deveraux Angie Young Jennie A. Wallin Zella McBride La Rue Tabbert Orpha Sheehan Millie Tate Louise Tate Annie Gollaher Mary McKellar Jeanne Waldron Bessie Anderson Mary Carson Thelma Millard Mariam MclInelly Ruth Lanning Margaret Rosencrantz Betty C. Holmquist Lillian Tyler Mabel M. Judd Carrie Webb Bertha Bolton Velma Allred Bessie Cox Elsie M. Palmer Elva Ericksen Reva Watkins Sarah Workman Lillie Bigelow Marie Johnson Edna Pope HONOR ROLL 345 Relief Society Naples Vernal First Vernal Second Vernal Third Bonanza Branch Rangely Branch Union Stake Baker Elgin-Embler Enterprise Halfway La Grande First La Grande Second Pendleton Union Wallawa University Stake Eleventh West Twelfth North Thirteenth South Thirteenth EnrollSubscriptions ment No. 56 Stadium Village Branch 85 Utah Stake Park Provo Third Provo Fourth Provo Sixth Provo Fourteenth University Uvada Stake Alamo Panaca Pioche Pct. Magazine Representative Eva Haws Arlean Chivers Pearl D. Winder Alice O. Billings Mirl Kendall Gladys Morgan Leana M. See Sadie Shelton Margaret Hopkins Amyrue Gent Wanda Bendixon Lydia Cantrell Leona M. See Lenora Blanchard Erma W. Badger Amy Lou Werst Etta B. Cowles Emmeline Jacobs Laretta McGee Emma Larsen Venice Anderson Raema H. Drake Bertha Memmott Anna Anderson Esther Hurst Cora Booth Jane Evans Nellie Diamond Leda Law Isadora Price Mary S. Lee Isadora Price Faye Chadburn Relief Society Weiser Stake Emmett First Letha New Plymouth Payette Cascade Branch Wells Stake Browning Ivins McKay Waterloo Wilson West Jordan Stake Bingham Copperton Herriman Riverton First Riverton Second South Jordan West Jordan First West Jordan Second West Pocatello Stake Pocatello First Pocatello Third Pocatello Fifth Pocatello Ninth Pocatello Tenth Pocatello Eleventh Pocatello Sixteenth EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pct. Washington Terrace lst 38 Washington Terrace 3d 22 Washington Terrace 4th 30 30 79 28 127 25 838 65 94 67 103 45 92 42 105 18 138 721% 84 110 105 97 85 Magazine Representative Verda Walker Fern Kraus Evan Murry Fannie Chandler Rachel Cutler Ann Jensen Zola Chandler Rosella M. Sinclair Clara McMurdie Mabel Wood Ragna M. Edman Della Riley Anna Sund: Fern B. Fronk Merle Wennhold Elma Johnson Frances Boren Phebe Johnson Agnes Dansie Eliza Reynolds Britt Park Violet Price Clara Beckstead Irene Gardner Reta C. Austin Emma Hurst Letha Stevenson Jean Henderson Ida Gregorson Flora Jensen Rhoda Dickerson Clarissa Haskell 346 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1953 Hiko Branch Ursine Branch Wasatch Stake Center Charleston Daniel Heber First Heber Second Heber Third Heber Fourth Midway First Midway Second Wallsburg Washington Stake Alexandria Arlington Baltimore Capitol Chevy Chase Fairview Richmond Washington Frederick Branch Wayne Stake Fremont Hanksville Loa Lyman Thurber Weber Stake Ogden First Ogden Eleventh Ogden Nineteenth Ogden Twenty-second Ogden Thirty-second Jewel S. Hansen Lydia Hollinger Atha J. Montgomery Ora Sweat Mae Jones Minnie McKenzie - Emily B. Conrad Margaret T. Felt Margaret Mc. Calister Ella Simmons La Neva Averett Norma Bollschweiler Malinda Ford Mary E. Stimpson Ruth Neeley Marjorie T. Reid June H. Ashwell Gertrude Reynolds Ruth Rasband Louise A. Funk Audrey Lund Naomi Blanch Taylor Emma B. Taylor Forsyth Delilah Albrecht Ethel Noyes Lillie Sorenson Zelda Okerlund Tamor Christensen Florence W. Wright Robenia Harris Sadie Masters Elva Craynor Ida Cook Florence Gardner West Utah Stake Pioneer Provo Second Provo Eleventh River Grove First River Grove Second Sunset Sunset Second Wilford Stake Cummings Grandview Imperial Imperial West Kenwood Valley View Valley View Second Wilford Willamette Stake Corvallis Eugene Dexter Branch Junction City Branch Lebanon Branch Sweet Home Branch Woodruff Stake Evanston First Evanston Second Hilliard Woodruff _Almy Branch Yellowstone Stake Ashton Egin Bench Marysville Parker 649 530 526 Cleo L. Thatcher Edith Baum Helen Buckley Leah Patton Eva Warner Annie P. Tanner HONOR ROLL Alice D. Carter Bernice Baxter Thora Hunter Cora M. Bernards Sarah K. Pearson Lillian Kettle La Von B. Sansom Ruth H. Peterson Mary Neeley Maud C. Graham Mary A. Caldwell Mary Williams Mary Ann Lamoreaux Belva Ingram Edythe Davis Laura Osborne Verna Bell Naomi Harris Rowena Crook Delphia Barnes Naomi Harris Lenna Dean Edna Saxton Laura Hillam Mary Marsden Sara Mason Marjorie Gunter Chloe Rice 347 Relief Society St. Anthony First St. Anthony Third Wilford Kilgore Branch Young Stake Farmington First Farmington Second Kirtland Allison Branch Aztec Branch Durango Branch Jewett Branch Kline Branch Shiprock Zion Park Stake Hurricane North Hurricane South La Verkin Rockville Springdale Toquerville Virgin MISSIONS Australian Mission Enmore Glen Huon Hurstville Launceston Marooka Nambour Perth Ipswich 87 62 No. 103 57 55 21 EnrollSubscriptions ment Pct. 118 92 Magazine Representative Almina Johnson Irene Pettingill Lilla Romrell Elsa Jensen Zetta Brimhall Zetta Brimhall Daphine Tooley Eva Noel Ruth Jack Louise Rogers Maud B. Jarvis C. Mae Hunt Loretta Slade Opal B. Jack Della Hardy Louise Jepson Vera Ballard Mildred Sanders Mary Hirschi Catherine Brockmeier Edythe Smith Edna J. Flanigan Mae Clarke Ellen Woolley. Mrs. E. M. Walker Rita Pugh Mrs. E. J. Bell Mrs. A. R. Lyell Eunice Compton Annie Elsworth Relief Society London Oshawa Ottawa Sarnia Timmins Toronto Trenton Windsor Central Atlantic States Asheville Bluefield Burlington Colfax Dunn Durham Elizabeth City Fredericksburg Goldsboro Hoges Store Jacksonville Jackson Springs Kinston Martinsville Mount Zion Nahunta Newport News Norfolk Pearisburg Piney Green Portsmouth Raleigh Roanoke Rapids Roxboro Tarboro Wilmington Winston-Salem No. 12 19 22 9 13 73 9 pk y/ EnrollSubscriptions ment Pct. 86 119 92 90 87 88 113 Magazine Representative Edythe Davidson Gretta Houston Eva E. Musson Luella Allen Rosalind C. Nye M. H. Schulzke Phyllis Westfall Allie Halstead Katherine Brewington Alice Lawton Grace S. Rudd Margaret Wilson Kathleen Smith Georgia D. Bennett Bertha B. Cahoon Ruth P. Stoneman Edna Stuckey Sadie E. Marr Alicia Gilbert Ranell Thompson Estella Eubanks Sarah Armentrout Rebecca Hollingsworth Dorothy Maples Mae Dickens Sarah I. Hill Margurite Dowdy Bearnie Spell Katherine C. Cole Ruth Rogers Alma May Jones Gertrude Gentry Mary Frances Phelps Erotha Rogers Lillie B. Wyatt 348 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1953 California Mission Arizona District Bagdad Chino Valley Prescott Wickenburg Colorado River District Blythe Parker Imperial Valley District Brawley El Centro Mount Whitney District Bishop Lone Pine Ridgecrest Trona Oak Creek District Williams San Gorgonio District Banning Beaumont Indio Palm Springs South Coast District Escondido Fallbrook Laguna Beach Vista Yuma District Ajo Wellton Yuma Canadian Mission Brantford Galt Kitchener 698 665 122 110 109 18 20 LaPriel S. Bunker Margaret Shults Jocosa A. Langford Avis R. Despain Ellen Richards Una Perry Vera M. Jackson Irene Wadell Nadine Christiansen Addie Smith Lura Birmingham Alpha Budke Ruth H. Corry Nilda Anderson Elizabeth A. Merwin Alice M. B. Muirhead Alice E. Higbee Nora McCuen Ruth Ainsworth Mae Kehlenbrink Fawn P. Wilcox Elenora Camphuysen Edna M. Jones Myrtle S. Scott Florence J. Reaney Myreel S. Lewis Barbara McElmury Beth B. Beecroft Eva N. McGovern Anna H. Toone Gladys Meek R. Wright Florrie Smith Central States Mission 1133 1077 95 Arkansas District 56 50 89 El Dorado 28 =. 28 Hot Springs 10 9 90 Little Rock mm ww Central Kansas District 136 Arkansas City 16 14 88 Chanute ¥ | Coffeyville 11 11 East Wichita 32 35 Hutchinson 8 9 Manhattan 8 8 Parsons. 1@ 14 Salina ii ( West Wichita Za 3x East Oklahoma District 113 Bartlesville a) 86th Eufaula 7 " Gore 10 10 Locke 7 9 Muskogee 6 qj Seminole 8 6 5 Tulsa 30 30 100 Independence District 281 Armour Hills 27 8686 Claytonville 6 8 Independence 44 338 15 Knob Noster 8 7 88 Lawrence 5 ij Leavenworth 11 12 Northeast 238 28 Rich Hill 14 18 Riverview 2 = 3 St. Joseph 24 34 Sedalia ye Westport anoOf«k Missouri District Belleville 19 15 79 Annie M. Ellsworth Estelle Riley Ila Lovelace Mada F. Rogers Hattie Brady Dorothy C. Clay Donna E. White Edna West Reva F. Barnhill Nellie Meador Wilma Logan Shirley Simper | Anna Belle Spencer Aileen Button May Brisbin Maryalice Stewart Ione Jones Ouida Buie Frances Sumpter Rose Robison Dorothy Boyd Jo Ann Cooper Almeda Barnum Gertrude A. Pearson Naomi Nelson Ada A. Fridell Jean Pope Margaret T. Beard Margaret Farnsworth Anna E. Bowen Stella Richards Louise King Thelma Higgins Margaret Courtney Grace Furnell Pauline Slight Vera Oscarson Nola Manire HONOR ROLL 349 Relief Society Columbia 8 East St. Louis 20 Jefferson City 14 Mexico 8 St. Louis 52 Southeast Missouri Dist. 39 Hayti 13 Mountain View 3 Poplar Bluff 16 Winona 7 Southwest Missouri District Bentonville 6 Fayetteville 6 Joplin 25 Miami. 9 Pittsburg 9 Springfield 32 Webb City 22 West Kansas District 62 Dodge City 18 Larned 8 St. John 9. Seott City 12 Syracuse 5 Ulysses 10 West Oklahoma District 151 Anadarko 10 Ardmore 8 Blackwell 14 Duncan 13 Fort Sill 19 Midwest City 6 Oklahoma City | 33 Ponea City 9 Stillwater 20 No. EnrollSubscriptions ment Pet. Magazine Representative Evelyn Wood Willie P. Kanipe Patsy Petershagen Emily McGee Margaretha Evans Pauline Britton Pauline Britton Marion Cornett Alta Wright Mollie Crotzer Lorene Tidlund Sarah C. Poor Diane B. Kitterman Ruth C. Wintle Thea Blessing Ada L. Harris Gladys Drummond Gertie Ohler Marie Moore Mary M. Shumard Elsa Webb Joan Jordan Eythel Hollingsworth Helen Thornburgh Alta Dew Grace G. Cullimore Ethelynde Roberson Laurine M. Nievar Betty Attebery Ruby Etheridge Grace R. Owen Mary H. McCain Mary Thompson Norma Wilkins Clara V. Nelson Relief Society ment Erie © 17 Germantown 24 Gloversville 14 Johnstown 9 Kingston 4 Meadville 2 Niagara Falls 20 Philadelphia 44 Punxsutawney 12 Reading 12 Rochester 22 Schenectady 26 Scranton 8 Sunbury 7 Syracuse 33 Utica 11 Wilson 21 Wilmington 23 Great Lakes Mission 1065 Central Indiana District 183 Anderson 10 Cambridge City 18 Columbus 18 Connersville 9 Muncie 29 Richmond a North Indiana District Fort Wayne 36 Marion 6 South Bend 15 Central Ohio District 112 Dayton | Lima 16 Marion 8 Springfield 14 No. EnrollSubscriptions Pet. Magazine Representative Susie Christian Elizabeth C. Close Johanne Siebach Florence Fisher Edna F. Gray Every] Ketcham Tessa M. Udy Florence Bennett Orphie M. Mercer Pearl D. Yeager Helen E. Boas Vera Caulford Mildred Mattern Irene L. Hile Grace Downing Mary E. Chris Virginia Opfar Beatrice Stirland Ella C. Burton Ellen R. Clayton Esther Baker Bertha Lilly Mrs. Theodore King Delores Sullivan Florence Hoskins Mary Ellen Rudy Elsie Martin Thelma Archer Norma Winebrenner Martha Wise Emma Wolf Nellie A. Allen Ruth Ireland Wanda Puckett 350 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1953 East Central States Mission Kentucky Central Dist. Lexington Sulphur Well Tomkinsville Winchester Kentucky West District Bowling Green Elkton Greenville Paducah Tennessee East District Chattanooga Kingsport Knoxville Oak Ridge Tennessee West District Memphis Nashville West Virginia N. Dist. Cumberland Franklin Parkersburg West Virginia S. Dist. Beckley Charleston 6 44 Eastern States Mission 736 Albany Alleghany Allentown Binghamton Buffalo Camden Cattaraguas Chester Elmira 514 397 Edna H. Matheson Grace Wells Katherine Seyfrit Grace Scott Elizabeth Shrout Edna H. Matheson Addie McGregor Nettie Lee Hooper Eunice A. Gossett Venice Emily Watson Edna H. Matheson Myrtle Low Ruby L. Monroe Veda Travis Mildred M. Payne Edna H. Matheson Tilda Davis Matilda Brunson Edna H. Matheson Ruby G. Landis Alice Hartman Alberta Mace Cleo Faye McHoney Emma Atkinson Eva C. Taylor Emma W. Barton Pauline Carr Alma A. Lang Lillian L. Gleason Louise C. Winspear Elinor R. Wright Elsa F. Tolman Julia T. Brown Margaret E. Kresge East Michigan District Toledo North Ohio District Alliance Canton Cleveland Warren South Indiana District Bloomington Linton South Ohio District Cincinnati Hamilton Middletown Portsmouth 13 West Michigan District 160 Flint Grand Rapids Jackson Kalamazoo Lansing Midland Saginaw Hawaiian Mission Haiku Halaula Hanapepe Honokohua Honomakaa Keanae Waihee New England Mission Amherst Bar Harbor Bath Bridgeport 318 15 3 5 14 Florence Schultz Mrs. Floyd Randall Hazel Currie Trelva Wilson Margaret Calkins HONOR ROLL Maud E. Young Nellie F. Centers Mildred Bang Rosa Bang Phyllis Laney Ola Napier Alice Mattingly Sophia B. Gordon Alphild Tracy Marian Wicks Millie Smith Olive Knibbs Venna Janes Audrey V. Bradd Albertine Hiltz Pearl Anakekea Lillian Cozimero Opal Ching Mae Kalama Agnes K. Aniu Emma Manoa Helen Akuna Hattie B. Maughan Lillian R. Norwood Lyolya Winsor Diane B. Weeks Elizabeth: Gardner 351 Relief Society Burlington Fall River Foxboro Fredericton Monson New Bedford New Haven New London Pittsfield Plymouth Portland Portsmouth Presque Isle Providence St. John Springfield Worcester New Zealand Mission Pukehou Waihi No. California Mission 782 Alturas Arcata Ashland Corning Crescent City Etna Eureka Grants Pass Klamath Falls Lakeview Medford Orland Pacific Grove Salinas Sunnyvale EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pct. Lt 6100 | © 7 7 100 12 Ss © 86 6 5 4 4 Magazine Representative Mildred Shortsleeve Laura West Edith Abbott Gladys V. Burtt Beatrice Blatchley Eleanor Rimmer Phyllis Cannon Aurla E. Mitchell Julia Chivers Gertrude V. Sears Sarah McCue Nellie Paisley Edith Griffin Beatrice Johnson Lena Cosman Genevieve Davis Isabelle E. Jacobson Polly Tarawhiti Polly Tarawhiti Amelia P. Gardner Mildred Jackson Ellen Brown Florence Conner Anna Glenn Margery Johnson Marie Johnson Maggie Poteit Bertha Brown Rosie Carlson Eva Manning Bertie McGraw Leola Jacobson Anna Monson Afton Ward Gertrude Rueckert Relief Society Peoria Rockford Tri-City South Illinois District Alton Bloomington Centralia Champaign Clinton Danville Decatur Farmer City Jacksonville Mattoon Murphysdale Quincy Springfield West Frankfort West Iowa District Ames Des Moines Winter Quarters Dist. Columbus Council Bluffs Omaha Sioux City Wisconsin District Appleton Eau Claire Lyndhurst Madison Manitowoc Mole Lake Oneida Rhinelander Wausau EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pct. 13 14 108 5 6 120 44 44 100 150 161 6 6 a i 7 18 10 8 7 18 12 7 6 5 4 5 18 6 7 26 11 9 60 Magazine Representative Grace Deipenbrock Alma Busker Marilyn Baker Pearl B. Kelly Dolly Wheat Lula Paul Mary Katherine Ahlf Lanella Wrisk Lettie Crews Esther Englert Mabel L. Hank Viona Turpin Sophrona V. Seeman Della Orndorff Fannie Stomp Myrtle Tobias Anna M. Fehrhalz Betty Rauback Eleanor M. Bartholomew Audrey Fowler La Vee Peterson Afton H. Hardy Lennie Jones Ruby I. Wright Mrs. George McIntyre Emma Barnes Hazel M. Brasham Beth Neider Luella Schroeder Selma Hoffman Lenora Stuart Donna Warren La Vera Polar Estella Farmer Eva Dutcher Esther Waite 352 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1953 Trail Tulelake Watsonville Willows Yreka North Central States Mission Austin Fargo Ft. Frances Gettysburg Grand Forks Mitchell Pipestone Lake District Duluth Superior Tower Virginia North Minnesota District 6 Brainerd Twin Cities District Hastings Minneapolis First 6 155 11 77 Minneapolis Second 25 Northern States Mis. East Iowa District Bonaparte Cedar Rapids Iowa City Muscatine Waterloo North Illinois District Freeport Galesburg Joliet Genill Spruill Leora Swensen Laure Hellyer Martha M. Nelson Darlene Rowe Laura M. Hawkes Vera Peterson Agnes Gundrum Ethel C. Shine Mildred Sandberg Lottie Lehew Helen Nobis Eleanore Sumner Ruth Peterson Velda L. Peterson Hazel C. Welch Francis Louise Bruneau Clara M. Niemi Elaine Peterson Iris Nelson Nellie Bentson Betty Targhele Signe Sundberg Alma Maude Passow Lucy T. Andersen Florence Shaffer Nadra Grant Alice M. Schmidt Connie Bennion Shirley Hubble Edith Grappendorf Rena P. Custer May Mulnix Rena P. Custer Mrs. Warren Hoelzor Northwestern States Mission Bend District Bend John Day Madras Prineville Redmond Mid-Columbia District Goldendale Klickitat The Dalles White Salmon Mount Hood District Estacada Molalla Silverton Woodburn Pacific District Astoria Tillamook Vernonia Puget Sound District Grays Harbor Port Angeles Port Townsend Raymond Southern Oregon Dist. Bandon Lakeside Newport Wenatchee District Ellensburg Ephrata Moses Lake Quincy Wenatchee 847 709 131 127 Mavil A. McMurrin La Rue Earnest Lucie E. Howard Wavel M. Kellogg La Rue Earnest Beulah Murray Irene Butler Edna Wolsey Lena Shupe Mary Lou Greenfield Hazel Clark Nina Black Neva Hess Violet D. Pattie Florence Olds Annette Harris Leurilla Wilcox Opal Hudson Karen Hagnas Bertha Winfield Laura Carmichael Joyce C. Elzinga May D. Hale Joyce C. Elzinga Delores Curtis Bertha Zakel Alice Burnham Lois Asay Olive Hart Ella Hopper Naomi B. Monson Hazel Burns Anne Matheny Lanore S. Bowen Amy Anderson Pauline M. Baird HONOR ROLL 353 Relief Society Independent Branches Anchorage 24 Fairbanks - 14 Juneau 14 Kellogg 16 South African Mission Springs 10 Southern States Mis. 1343 Alabama District Bayou La Criox 6 Mobile 24 Pascagoula 9 Pensacola 19 Central Florida District 189 Bartow 12 Belleview Buy Bradentown 6 Daytona Beach 10 New Smyrna Beach 6 Orlando 29 Tampa 27 Winter Haven 15 Georgia District Athens % Atlanta First 56 Atlanta Second 12 Buchanan 15 Columbus 25 Empire 13 Gibson 7 Macon 35 Milledgeville 10 Montrose 10 Palmetto 8 EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pet. 154 100 114 94 110 84 130 80 88 Magazine Representative Susie O. Williams Arlene Reese Naomi F. Graf Ruby Eijichert Jean D. Wright Emily E. Ricks Ellen E. Ladner Lavonia Bradford Edna L. Hewett Violet Odum E. Vernandy Mable Burnett Eleanor Pruitt Anita Humphrey Ethel V. Wright Lucy J. Michael Rose E. Gay Ethel Gainer Lillie Smith Caroline Willson Sue Roberts Joyce Ott Geneva Dubrawski Barbara McClure Bell Walden Myrtle Fordham Vera Thigpen Viola Land Ella Lee Taylor Lollie Jean Cooper Clovis Phillips Relief Society West Florida District Bristol 15 Marianna 12 Olive 6 Sink Creek 11 West So. Carolina Dist. Aiken 11 Texas-Louisiana Mis. 1101 East Texas District 182 Enoch 35 Gilmer 16 Kelsey — 80 Kilgore 11 Tyler 8 No. Central Texas Dist. 154 Dallas 51 Fort Worth Al Sherman 19 Waco 80 Wichita Falls 13 No. Louisiana District 174 Alexandria 16 Coushatta 11 Level Hill 10 Many 22 Monroe 20 Natchitoches 20 Rosepine 9 Shreveport 42 Winnfield 16 Zulks 8 North Texas District 40 Amarillo 17 Borger 11 Lubbock 12 EnrollSubscriptions ment No. 15 100 16 100 109 Pct. L. V. Adams Juanita Sims Myrtle Sweeney Audra Peacock Sallie Cooper Leone R. Bowring Azell Lloyd Grace Williams Sarah Chevalier Ella Edwards Leona Bell Mary Norris Lydia Swanson Minnie Curry Lillian L. Bull Hazel G. Blundell Margaret P. Jackson Olive Bamburg Mayme Rogers Mayo Hardy LaFaye Hudnall Clara Methvin Melva Henry Bertha Shaner Marjorie Lawrence Julia Avery Ruth M. Ray Alice Cumings Laura C. Horne Magazine ' Representative Ww uw oo RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1953 Georgia-Florida Dist. 139 Cairo 9 Douglas 17 Fitzgerald 6 Genoa 5 Live Oak 9 Moultrie yi 4 Valdosta tf Willacoochee 9 Mississippi District Columbia Wi MeNiel 8 Red Star 4 Sand Hill 8 Seminary 9 Vicksburg 4 North Alabama Dist. Elkmont 7 Huntsville 9 McCalla 16 Montgomery 18 No. Mississippi District Columbus 4 Senetobia 5 So. Carolina District Bennettsville 6 Camden 15 Myrtle Beach 15 South Florida District 115 Ft. Lauderdale 11 Ft. Pierce 9 Miami First 48 Miami Second 19 South Georgia District 79 Brunswick 10 Ridgeland 21 Savannah 28 Tottie Brown Katie Butler Rachel Roberts Elizabeth Lott Florence Mitton Mrs. J. L. Dyals Mildred Barlow Cais L. Asbell Louise Griner Otilla K. Griner Otilla K. Griner Elma Spiers Arcola Brady Hettie McLain Betty Speed Pearl Smith Wanda Willingham Pauline Whitlock Mary L. Vining Lois Ingram Feral B. Wingo Lillie G. Floyd Eunice Rainwater Dorothy B. O'Neal Delores Anderson Violet A. Pettley Ida Lewis Delma Hurst Edna Slay Virginia C. Howell Alberta Clifton Marion Potter Vivian Lowther Alberta Beasley So. East Texas District 222 Bay City 5 Baytown 20 Beaumont 19 Houston No. 1 41 Houston No. 2 36 Orange 10 Silsbee 25 Velasco 16 Williamson 38 So. Louisiana District 150 Albany 6 Baton Rouge 37 Bogalusa 8 Covington 3 Gonzales 18 Hammond 4 Lake Charles 17 New Orleans 32 Pride 17 Sun 2 South Texas District 131 Alamo. 5 Austin 84 Center Point 8 Corpus Christi 18 Rio Grande Valley 8 San Antonio 45 Victoria 13 West Texas District 48 Abilene 10 Monahans 18 San Angelo 20 West Central States Mission Alendale 22 Belle Fourche 8 Belgrade 13 224 4 Goldie Ashcraft Jean Lois Bullock Annie Lee McLanathan Hattie Harwell Violet Dickerson Alice Stockton Helen Hoke Judy Sanders Sadie Williamson HONOR ROLL Mrs. Luther Stewart Myrtle Raffray Thanie Dunaway Neola Jenkins Pansy Richardson Helen Crawford Evelyn Nope Mildred Clark Gertrude Aucoin Eunice Cooper Mae Pool Elsie Ann Fox Lena Tullis Farlina Atkinson Lorene Ricker Adda Lee Smith Othelia Schuchert Greta B. Long Muriel C. James Velva McCleery Reta F. Broadbent Ruby Bradshaw Donna Mae Baasgaard w Annella Barnes Pp) Relief Society Bismarck Bozeman Butte Bynum Casper Columbia Falls Conrad Cut Bank Dickinson Dillon Fort Benton Fort Washakie Golden Ridge Glendive Great Falls Hamilton Hardin Harlowton Helena Kalispell Lander Laurel Lewistown Libby Lima Livingston Miles City Minot Missoula — Pavillion Polson Rapid City Riverton St. Ignatius Shelby Sheridan, Montana Sheridan, Wyoming EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pet. Magazine Representative Sadie Mickel Jessie Casper Eleanore Burt Ivy Stott Elizabeth Burnett Mary Harris Gladys C. Peterson Dorothy Ruhl Janyce U. Cox Irene R. Norris Berma M. Adamson Irtense Enos Armida Hanberg Mary Anderson Vera Nelson Ruby M. Davis Mary Leavitt Dorothy M. Bloomer Lucile Rossiter June H. Kesler Estelle Ririe Fern R. Hurzler Mable I. Sawyer Eunice S. Rotz Helen Rush Lucile Miller Dorothy S. Anderson Lois Ann Goutz Nellie Tuck Virginia Warstin Nora Kelley Mable Thomas Arva R. Orman Katherine Papenfuss Viola Carter Ruth V. Norton Lavina Kenison Relief Society Trail Vancouver District Vernon 12 112 6 Western States Mission 853 Denver District Brighton Greeley East New Mexico Dist Hobbs Roswell Tucumcari Pueblo District Canon City.- Colorado Springs La Junta San Luis District Del Norte Leadville Scottsbluff District Bridgeport Chadron Lance Creek Scottsbluff Sidney Torrington West Colorado Dist. Baggs Craig Delta Fruita Glenwood Springs Grand Junction Meeker Montrose Paonia No. 12 106 7 EnrollSubscriptions ment Pet. Magazine Representative Nellie Wilson Stella Rynhart Mary Lopaschuk Mildred Dillman Sadie Ord Thelma McDaniel Erma Edwards Jane Sims Grace Gardner Betty Pierce Ethel Quarles Pres. Schofield Vera Edding Maggie Nielson Bennis McKibben Alma Hamilton Irma Marie Chandler Elda Kennelly Florence Orchard Eva M. Pace Florence Smith Ethel Kelly Lula Dunsdon Sarah Monnahan Delphia Taylor Afton Holt Elizabeth Williams 356 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1953 Simms 16 Sumatra 13 Townsend 13 Whitehall 13 Williston q Western Canadian Mis. 408 Cranbrook 15 Creston 9 Edmonton 66 Medicine Hat 16 Moose Jaw 10 Nelson 9 Port Alberni 18 Penticton 6 Pincher Creek 8 Nelda W. Gray Donna M. Edward Mary L. Christensen Loretta Taylor Barbara Jenkins Elizabeth H. Zimmerman Marie Atwood Idella Thomson Gwen Johnston Adelle Johnson Stella Larson Edith Little Ivy Ellis Dorothy E. Rondelet Marie A. Smith Rifle 15 Steamboat Springs 9 West Nebraska District 31 Grand Island 16 Hastings 4 McCook 4 North Platte 7 West New Mexico Dist. 172 Albuquerque 113 Bluewater 23 Los Alamos 25 Santa Fe 11 Independent Branches Nucla 12 Paradox 19 Uravan q Glenda Richardson Susan Blogett Emma Mae Allen Minnie Stoddard E. M. Allen (Pres.) Dorothy McNeal Della Miller Helen Rowley Erma Rae Bingham Alta Jordan Irene Burbridge Dot Eades Louise Warren HONOR ROLL 357 DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 45-47 South Main Salt Lake City 1, Utah! Ab Beautiful THREE PART CHORUSES fo MOTHERS DAY Little Mother of Mine—Burleigh $.20 Little Old Lady—Carmichael.20 Mother—Rubinstein -..---- 18 M-O-T-H-E-R—Morse - ---------.20 Mother O'Mine—Tours ---.20 Melodies My Mother Sang—Youse.20 Mother Machree—Ball 15 Thats What God Made Mothers For —Wood.20 That Wonderful Mother of Mine— (CTY. 15 When Your Hair Has Turned to Silver—De Rose.20 WE PAY POSTAGE Music Sent On Approval Use this advertisement on your order blank Please send postpaid the music indicated ove. - [] On Approval O Charge (1 Money Enclosed Ra es ee me ee ee cre ce ee me ce mre ce ee re ee ca ee me ee ee FIRST OF ALL— RELIABILITY nes 1 U SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH 45-47 SOUTH MAIN STREET Ce, Page 358 My Wish for You Bernice T. Clayton I would not wish you sunshine, dear, Without some blessed rain; I could not wish you happiness Devoid of grief and pain. For deserts form in sunny lands, Where rain can never fall, But God, who hears our sorrowing, Can heal and comfort all. Deep love, compassion, tenderness, We buy at sorrow's cost; We know the joys of being found When we have once been lost. God give you strength to drain life's cup But still find sweetness there, For joy will come when once you learn The great release of prayer. —oe Mother Emily Carey Alleman No longer does she run On eager dancing feet To greet the promise of dawn As it tiptoes down the street. Sedate, she goes, and slow, To meet the fullblown day; Her vibrant heartstrings muted, Her gold hair silver-gray. Te About Flowers Elaine Swain Some covet baskets of roses, Gardenias to twine in their hair; They long to pin on an orchid When they hear his step on the stair. But give me short-stemmed poppies, Plucked on a summer's day— Held tightly in a tiny fist Presented as '""Mommie's bouquet." A Time to Forget (Continued from page 309) steps like a group of gay, homing birds. "Looks more like a party to me." David was plainly suspicious. "Tonight," Luis explained as he hopped out of the car and drew himself up tall as he opened the door for Serena, "tonight is like a patty, a school, and a church. It is the night for the young people." Grandly he ushered them through the bright new foyer into the pleasing formality of the chapel, impressive with its view windows and soft rose drapes against the light walls. Even as they sat down, the vivacious chatter stopped and the meeting began. There were scouts aplenty, and, as Luis had said, the scout executive was there in person. After the opening exercises, made vivid by the efforts of the young people, Serena followed Luis and David to the scout hall in the right wing. "Is it not, as I said, beautiful?" Luis spoke as if it was his special creation. "See, these are the floors I helped lay." (To be concluded) > She Humming Bird Evelyn Fjeldsted From heights of a leaf in the wind, A humming bird swings through the air And, sighting a twig once again, A little bronze statue is there. Speeding with summer, he brings A kiss for a flower at dawn; Then, with a swift whirring curve, Like a bobbin with wings, he is gone. THE HISTORIC TRAIN Leaves Salt Lake City JULY 31ST FOR THE GREAT PAGEANT at the Hill Cumorah as well as Denver, INDEPENDENCE, NAUVOO, CARTHAGE, Chicago, Cleveland, KIRTLAND TEMPLE, Niagara Falls, Palmyra, SHARON VERMONT, Boston, New York, Washington, and MOUNT VERNON, etc. For complete details write or phone VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 East South Temple SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Telephone 4-2017 Sea Call Catherine E. Berry The prairies are wide and green today, The deep green of the sea, The waving grain is an ocean wave That calls the heart of me. The wind is a restless voice that sings Of distant strands of beach, Where palm trees dip on a golden shore, So far beyond my reach. The prairies are wide and green today, Last year and the year before In undulating waves they brought Sea-longing to my door. Page 359 HOT WATER WHEN YOU WANT IT! "aur an AUTOMATIC We 0] ELECTRIC ( ' WATER x HEATER Be Thrifty ~ Use Electricity UTAH POWER & LIGHT COMPANY Preserve Your Relief Society Magazines For Reference Have your Relief Society Magazines bound into permanent yearly volumes. They are excellent for reference. Cost is small. Write or phone today for information. Deseret News Press 31 RICHARDS STREET 4-258] Salt Lake City, Utah Page 360 Silenced Eva Willes Wangsgaard I know we did not bury song; Song has immortal birth, And whether voiced or silenced long It is not bound by earth. But you for whom I sang my song Went out, and now the door Is locked and laced with grassy thongs, And I can sing no more. —_ Spring B, ide Hannah C. Ashby A cherry tree by the garden path Is gleaming pearly white. She looks like a bride in veil and lace On her happy wedding night. Oh, let her dance with the sun and wind And toss her bride's bouquet While robins pipe a merry tune As April bows to May. ~~ GC ft Divine Maxine H. Holbrook As silently as starlight, Filtering through the trees; Thy love and holy spirit Bring me to my knees. It is a gift of beauty, A joyous thing to know, A guide, a light, a peace serene, That holds me in its glow. As silently as starlight, Falling on a flower, It can leave me, as it came, And mar this golden hour. The way that I can keep it? This treasure rare, sublime Is just to love my neighbor, And serve my Lord divine, THESE BOOKS WILL SHOW YOU HOW TO ACHIEVE ITS REWARDS For preserving and classifying your genealogical recerds. 1 POST BINDER Covered in maroon imitation leather, this sturdy, heavy-duty binder holds 300 or more genealogical sheets. Sheets can be easily removed. $5.00 or $5.25 by mail 2. OUR FAMILY THROUGH THE YEARS Post Binder Gold embossed title and cover decoration of Salt Lake Temple enhance this binder which 8. HANDY BOOK OF GENEALOGY New, revised edition of this popular referis bound in durable, leather. Holds up to 300 sheets. $3.00 or $3.25 by mail 3. OUR FAMILY THROUGH THE YEARS Post Binder Same binder with 100 assorted genealogical sheets. $4.50 ' 4. BOOK OF REMEMBRANCE Binder 5 Flexible, cardboard binding. 85c a >. BOOK OF REMEMBRANCE Binder With 40 assortments of sheets. REFERENCE BOOKS FOR GENEALOGICAL WORK 6. THE WAY TO PERFECTION Joseph Fielding Smith | This book discusses the doctrinal principles which are the foundation for genealogical and temple work. ' $2.00 4 PROGRESS OF MAN Joseph Fielding Smith The author pictures the ceaseless historical struggle between good and evil, culminating in the restoration of the Church. $2.50 imitation Cordovan ence work. $1.25 a 9. GUIDE FOR GENEALOGICAL i RESEARCH z Archibald Bennett 7 Authoritative information on the mos modern methods of genealogical research. $2.00 $1.25 Deseret | il Book Co. SEND FOR PRICE LIST ON ALL GENEALOGICAL SHEETS AND BINDERS. 44 Fast South Temple -- Salt Lake Citv. Utah og 9; wae, '; Please send me the following circled items and books: 7. 1 2 3 4 5 67 8 9 ' 5 a 5 for which I enclose check ( ) or money order (_ ) 1 | | 8 fon) NINO, c; i ' a: | eeeemeiiene 0 AMIGA 5 5 Noo,: I) aaa | eee 5 - City —— |:: Residents of Utah add 2% sales tax.; 1 ' bese ew emweateaeun ew aseeeee wee wees as Sd U. S. POSTAGE 2¢ Paid SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH - PERMIT No. 690 ISIS! ES, Raye NS FRO SONNY, sacs, " THERE'S NO ONE LIKE MOM! * _ WHETHER THE DAYS ARE CLOU * OR SUNNY WE KNOW THAT SHE WILL BE THERE BRINGING HAF NESS WITH HER. DADDY SAYS IT'S A WONDERFU. FEELING TO KNOW THAT OUR BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE IS PLANNED TO PROTECT ALL THE GOOD THINGS WE SHARE.; — ' saataanye } GE SISY «lye i Ry i we 4 LET YOUR BENEFICIAL LIFE: i x UNDERWRITER HELP YOU PLAI | sing BEE THE FINANCIAL FUTURE FOR ¥ —— AND YOUR LOVED ONES.:* re ae ) = BE? David 0. McNay, Pres Salt Lake City, Utab IN FORCE % vy % a on: "* z aae % 7 _ 4 *% cee > PORATED OMOGENIZE Z| Mra Mt eallN D INCREASED 10 ows? Dovans wenn punt (RSH ss pnts Sego Milk Helps Build Sturdy Bodies _ After Weaning, Too! Hundreds of children today continue to thrive on Sego Milk long after weaning from bottle to cup. Wise mothers know that the same qualities recommend it — unfailing sterility, easy digestibility, retention of food values and economy! Sego Milk is so easy to prepare after infant bottle days, too just mix it with an equal amount of water, with no formula or any fuss. Keep your child on thrifty Sego Milk all through his growing years! Free To You A handy, 64-page book that makes it easier to care for and train your baby. Approved by a well-known doctor. Send for your free copy today. Address: Sego Milk Company Dept. R-2 Salt Lake City, Utah Washable, Permanently Pleated NYLON ACETATE SKIRT perfect fit for ALL women 22 to 30 waist 32 to 40 waist RY Choose Black, Brown or Navy \\- 4g Billowing pleats that KEEP their crispness. © Completely hand washable, needs no ironing. Popular basic colors. ZCMI SPORTSWEAR—Second Floor sn ae RY "Mail Orders to: MARGOT MANNERS, ZCMI Salt Lake City 10, Utah Send me the following nylon acetate skirts: Quan. Size Color 2nd Color | Cash LJ Charge L) c.0. D. O ll cere! Hem! Ies omer: cons emma:- emis smmas= «+ + Address ee oe City Zone. Site.. Include 15¢ postage for first skirt and 5¢ foreach additional. Utah residents add 2% sales tax. 
