Sabbath morning. On the occasion to which reference will here be made Louisa was to review her class and she had taken great pains to have a suitable lesson well prepared by both teacher and pupils. But on Sunday morning?she just did not feel equal to the task of presenting the lesson to the school as she realized it should be done. An hour or so before time to start for Sunday school, Louisa told her mother she was not feeling well. Her head was inclined to ache and her throat felt dry and slightly sore. "Mother," she asked, "do you think it will be wrong for me to miss Sunday School today if I spend the morning reading and stay at home?" "Why, my child," the mother answered, "if you are really sick and feel it will be best for you not to go to Sunday school then certainly there can be no wrong in your remaining at home. But if you have the feeling come simply from nervousness over the thought of giving that lesson you have been so strenuously drilling your girls on for the last two weeks, I would pluck up courage and go, and present the lesson in the excellent way you are sure to give it, and not disappoint the school, especially your class which you have made so enthusiastic by your painstakings with them." The young woman had invited her class to her home for rehearsals and the mother knew whereof she spoke. The daughter was convinced of her duty and promptly appeared at her place in Sunday school, before time for the opening. Her bright little girls were there also ahead of time as she had requested them to be. As she greeted them smilingly one of the superintendency came down off the stand and shook hands with Louisa saying, "Our Territorial superintendent of schools, Brother Robert L. Campbell, is here from Salt Lake. He is visiting the schools in all the settlements and is inspecting our school this morning. Let us show him a good Sunday school." There was still a little time left and Louisa repeated to the class the startling yet stimulating information she had just received, adding the injunction, "Let us not be afraid, girls, but all speak up bravely and clearly so as to be heard and understood." The day being the Sunday nearest the Twenty-fourth of July, Louisa had concisely written the lesson for her class in dialogue form on that always interesting portion of Church history which gives the account of the travels of the "Mormon" pioneers and
their first entrance into the valley of the Great Salt Lake. The lesson so appropriate to the day was well arranged and the teacher and pupils were highly favored and successful in their efforts to give it a fine rendition. The review was referred to and praised by members of the school for a long time after that day. And from their well versed and intelligent visitor, Brother Robert L. Campbell, it elicited very warm and encouraging commendation. During his remarks the Territorial school superintendent also paid Louisa an unexpected and inspiring eulogy on the editorial work she had recently done on a manuscript paper called The Smithfield Sunday School Gazette. Having examined the modest journal carefully, Brother Campbell held it up in his hand and declared it to be the most interesting and worthy example of its class that he had found in the schools of Utah Territory. Realizing the genuine uplifting influence of the credits gained that day both to herself and the dear Sunday school, Louisa was exceedingly happy. And she did not forget to be grateful that she had listened to the timely suggestions of her mother and made necessary sacrifices in order to fulfil her duty. The memory of such instances as the two here related proved valuable to the young woman when a larger and more serious crisis had come into her life. While talking of the greater work presented to her, one day, her mother was led to remark, "You have often expressed a desire to go on a mission and preach the gospel. Why not accept this call as a mission, and write your testimonies of the truth instead of proclaiming them by word of mouth? It would be less trying to your timidity and sensitiveness." That idea was a good one and helped to settle the question. Louisa wrote to Sister Snow that if President Young would give her the work of editing the woman's paper as a mission she would accept it as such and would do her best to make a success of it. Miss Snow read her letter to President Young and then wrote to Louisa that the President said, "Tell her I will give her that work as a mission and will bless her in it." The great leader of his people, Brigham Young, proved faithful to that promise, as he did to all his promises of blessings to all who trusted him as an inspired prophet of the Lord and sought to carry out his counsel. Louisa also proved faithful to the trust reposed in her. Early in the spring of 1872, Louisa left her home in Smithfield and became a permanent resident of Salt Lake City. The name of the new publication, The Woman's Exponent, as well as its editor, was a suggestion of E. L. Sloan's. At first the ladies thought it was not euphonious enough, but afterwards they accepted it. The intention was that the first issue of the paper should

bear the date of April 1, and be just in time for circulation at Spring conference, beginning April 6. But in this the editor and publishers were disappointed, because of some tie-up on the railroad preventing the arrival of paper which had necessarily been ordered from the east. By this hindrance the advent of the birth of The Woman's Exponent was deferred for two months. The delay proved advantageous, however, as it gave time for better preparation and some beneficial changes. The first home which Louisa found in the city was at the family residence of her great uncle, Lorenzo D. Young, who was bishop of the Eighteenth ward. The home was on State street, one block north of the Eagle Gate. There in her room the young woman began her editorial work. Her paper was first published by The Salt Lake Herald Company. Just west of the Eagle Gate, is the Lion House and there Eliza R. Snow lived as a member of the family of Brigham Young, one of his wives. It was very convenient for Louisa to visit her there. This she frequently did and often had the privilege of accompanying Sister Snow to the prayer room where the President met with his family morning and evening at the appointed hour for family worship. Louisa prized this sacred privilege very highly, it was a source of much comfort and keen enjoyment to her. "Aunt Eliza," as Sister Snow was affectionately called, and Miss Greene, who was becoming better known as "Lula," soon became very close and most sincere friends. They were truly like mother and daughter. They understood and appreciated each other. The love which existed between them was founded on gospel truth and was not to be shaken. Lula also found many others of the older and most prominent women of Utah tender and motherly in their feelings and deportment toward her. In fact she was shown great respect and friendliness everywhere, by all with whom she became acquainted. In that earlier time a General Board of the Relief Society was not organized extensively, as it is today. Lula soon became one of the sisters at the headquarters chosen at times to visit the different branches of the Society and to encourage, instruct and assist in uplifting and improving the work in general. And it is but expressing the truth to say she became a favorite with the sisters and was often asked for as a visitor at their special meetings and conferences. This gratifying recognition she enjoyed for many years not only among branches of the Relief Society but also with the younger associations. These privileges with their responsibilities came to her certainly from the fact of her having been selected as the pioneer editor among the women of the Latter-day Saints and her having accepted the position. That was the beginning of woman's journalism in Utah. The laying of a foundation upon which noble and progressive structures have been, and likely will continue to be, built.