[Vol12 | July 1925 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Social Service (Illustrated) Cora Kasius]

LESSONS FOR SEPTEMBER 391 LESSON IV (Fourth Week in September ) Social Service RECREATION The humdrum of routine, the exhaustion resulting from incessant work, the strain of facing hourly and daily the perplexing problems of living, have telling effects on the human mechanism. Because exercise, or music, or play can rest the tired muscles or nerves, and restore them to normal functioning, these restorative diversions are rightly called recreation?they "'re-create" the powers that have become exhausted by work and strain. Diversions that over-stimulate the human body, and those that have a deteriorating effect of the health and morale of an individual, cannot be termed, properly, recreation. The need for being wholesomely diverted from the more serious aspects of life, can hardly be overestimated. Psychiatrists advise wholesome, normal "escapes" from the strain and pressure of work and worry. If individuals do not find wholesome outlets for pent-up emotions and overstrained nerves, they will involuntarily seek abnormal outlets, and will perhaps resort to too much day-dreaming which may lead to more serious mental phenomena. A person may also become bitter, too preoccupied with his own struggles, and withdraw from his association with his family and friends, and from the world of "reality" to a morbid sphere of exaggerated troubles, persecution, etc. To keep a sensible outlook and to keep a normal balance, an individual must have in his life some self-expression, some beauty, some joy, and some laughter. What form of activity or expression is suitable recreation depends, of course, on the individual needs and tastes. One person's recreation might be arduous labor to another person. A man who spends his days seated at an office desk, pouring over figures and documents, would hardly select reading as a restoring evening activity. A mail man who spends his days walking, or a carpenter who is physically occupied throughout the day, would, likewise, find little rest or change in a long evening walk or some exercise about the home?splitting wood or caring for a family garden. Besides the daily activities, another factor in determining the form of recreation that an individual should select is his particular tastes. A concert might be an unusual treat to one person, while to another, it might be unspeakably boring. A musical comedy or a picture show or a vaudeville offer to many the complete relaxation and diversion needed, while to others three hours spent at these performances would be near torture. Crossword puzzles offered a new "escape" to thousands during the last year, but there are many disdainful folk who dismissed them with a contemptuous "waste of time." 
 What "diverts" one, is not so much a matter of education, training and intellect as of taste. If this were better understood, there would be more respect paid to individual preferences, fewer conflicts in the home circle and among friends, and not so many futile attempts to make friends or families learn to dance, or to play chess, or to hike and enjoy it. In planning recreation, then, for a family, the planner should be careful not to superimpose his own desires and tastes on others. Because parents do not dance, and perhaps their family and friends in their community or native country did not dance, it is not fair to begrudge the young people their evening at the dancing party. If a picnic or an automobile party is planned and a young boy who drives a truck or a car all day wishes to stay home and read or tinker with his car, his preference should be given respect. Perhaps the most serious conflicts in deciding upon the manner of spending leisure come between husband and wife. Their activities during the day are usually entirely different. He is away from home, meeting people, occupied with thoughts foreign from his home and household. His notion of a pleasant evening, perhaps, would be to stay at home, talk with his family, and read the paper or a book. At this point, the wife who has been engrossed with domestic affairs all day, looks longingly at the theatre announcements, or mentions that a friend would like them to call. It often happens that one will be more self-sacrificing than the other, and will quietly set aside his or her wishes repeatedly. Without meaning to be unkind, or inconsiderate, one of the couple may deprive the other of the desired and needed association and outlets, with a resulting domestic discord. Families should consider the wishes and tastes of others, and the members oi the family should be willing to "give and take." The tastes of one should not dominate the entire group. In planning for an unhappy friend or a family whose means are limited, there is a danger of blundering. The kindly friend is prone to expect the recipient of his kindness to enjoy the things he enjoys, to share his enthusiasm for plays or hikes or whatever he, in his good spirits, enjoys. If he has discovered a book that appeals to his fancy, he expects his friend with an entirely ? different outlook on life to find the same enjoyment in its perusal. Books other people select are likely to be disappointing and particularly is this true if the recipient is in trouble or in low spirits. It frequently happens that families whose means are limited are criticized for their attendance at picture shows or for going on picnics at resorts. It is possible, of course, that a family may spend too much of its budget in this manner. But, surely, the persons who live on a meagre income, who have few, if any, comforts in the home, who have no music, no magazines nor books in the home, who are constantly worried about debts and money matters, LESSONS FOR SEPTEMBER 393 have a real need of "escapes." People in more comfortable circumstances have friends' homes where they may call, or automobiles in which to go for drives, or a piano or other music in the home. It is perhaps advisable that a certain amount of even a limited income, should be spent for picture shows and resorts. Likewise, if purchases, house furnishings, ornaments or clothing seem not quite to suit the general standards of taste, it should be remembered' that these purchases are the individual's expressions of taste and beauty, modified by his pocketbook. A community or church program for recreation should offer a variety of diversions?music for the music lovers, pageants for those with dramatic inclinations, swimming and other physical activities for the many indoor workers. The influence of commercial recreations should not be permitted to discourage the development of an extensive community program. There should be some free, supervised activities for all. All individuals should have some opportunity to relax and to set aside their burdens for a short time. Reference: Normal Life, page 42. Questions and Problems 1. Name some wholesome forms of recreation; some unwholesome forms. 2. Why is some form of recreation necessary for every individual? 3. Why is some recreation important for people with limited incomes? 4. Why should parents encourage recreation in the home? 5. What community recreation is provided in your city or town? Teacher's Topic for September Work AS A DEVELOPER OF CHILDREN 1. Work that is play. 2. Value of "chores." "Our civilization does not depend so much on the little red school house as on the kitchen wood box."'?Babson, 3. Parents in the home must lay the foundation in the hearts and minds of the children as to the proper place of work and dignity of labor. 4. The weakness of the age is for old and young to shirk manual labor, and to sympathize with those who have to do it. 5. Arouse, stimulate, create enthusiasm and direct boys and girls, during the formative period, in the home, and it will be easier to contemplate the saving not only to the individual but to the nation: (1) In the betterment of mankind; (2) By prolonging their life of usefulness; (3) By increasing their powers of production; (4) By reducing the cost in operation, maintenance and upkeep of penal institutions. There is No Substitute for Electric Cooking SAFE DEPENDABLE COOL CONVENIENT CLEAN ECONOMICAL No Ashes?No Soot?No Fumes?No Smoke Utah Power, & Light Co. Efficient Public Service u've trie Pierce's tomato sauce! They save you work and trouble?can be served direct from the can. UTAH CANNING CO. OGDEN SINCE 1888 When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Pierce's! The beans with the famous Pierce?s tomato sauce! They save you work and trouble-can be served direct from the can. Utah Canning Co Ogden Since 1888 A Home Paper Three Great News Services Special Wires. DOROTHY DIX World's most widely read newspaper writer, All in the A dividend of 10% to all paid in advance subscribers. Send your order today.  22 EAST BROADWAY 33 EAST BROADWAY a Store Dealing in Quality Hosiery and Underwear Exclusively Heavy Silk Full-Fashioned, all colors: A wonderful hose for wear Per Pair $1.95 Box of Three Pairs $5.50 Semi-Fashioned, all colors, beautiful and durable Box  Per Pair $1.50 Box of Three Pairs........ $4.25 Silk with Extra Stretch Elastic Top, the Comfort Stocking Per Pair $1.50 Pure Silk, Semi-Pure Silk, semi-Fashioned, Chiffon. All Colors Per Pair $1.00 Box of Three Pairs $2.85 MAIL ORDERS PREPAID When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Snowcrofts Blue Pine Spices Are the choicest of spices grown. They are guaranteed to you as being absolutely pure. Say Blue Pine PEPPER to your Grocer When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
