[Vol44 | July 1957 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Lesson | Title: Literature | Author: Jacobs]
[Literature: William Shakespeare, Dramatist Briant S. Jacobs]
LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
473 
she  desires.  She  goes  on  to  differ- 
ent parts  of  the  store  and  compares 
items  and  values,  until  she  is  quite 
certain  that  she  has  selected  the 
things  that  she  desires  most.  Need 
we  ask  which  woman  will  return 
home  happier  to  prepare  supper  and 
obtain  the  greater  satisfaction  ex- 
plaining to  her  family  for  what  she 
spent  the  money? 
''A  fool  can  earn  money;  but  it 
takes  a  wise  man  to  save  and  dis- 
pose of  it  to  his  own  advantage." 
This  statement  of  President  Brig- 
ham  Young  makes  it  clear  that  it 
requires  skill  and  wisdom  to  spend 
money  wisely.  The  housewife  who 
regularly  spends  a  large  per  cent  of 
the  family  income,  bears  a  great  re- 
sponsibility in  spending  the  money 
in  a  way  that  brings  the  family  maxi- 
mum satisfaction.  Success  in  hand- 
ling family  financial  affairs  is  usually 
determined  less  by  the  amount  of 
income  and  more  on  how  it  is 
spent.  It  requires  very  little  local 
research  to  confirm  this  observation. 
If  you  take  a  particular  area,  is  it 
likely  that  the  ten  families  with  the 
highest  income  are  the  happiest 
families?  Can  you  determine  which 
mother  spends  the  largest  amount 
of  money  for  her  food  by  the 
healthy  appearance  of  the  children? 
It  is  hoped  that  this  series  of  les- 
sons and  the  thoughtful  discussion 
of  the  sisters  will  help  each  par- 
ticipant to  build  a  financially  safe 
road  along  which  to  travel  to  the 
goal  of  more  abundant  living. 
JLiterature  —  Shakespeare  in  Our  Lives 
Lesson   9— William   Shakespeare,   Dramatist 
Elder  Brhnt  S.  Jacobs 
Text:  Shakespeare  Major  Phys  and  the  Sonnets,  by  G.  B.  Harrison, 
Harcourt,  Brace  &  Company,  1948 
For  Tuesday,  October  15,  1957 
Objective:  To  become  more  aware  of  Shakespeare's  genius  in  integrating  within  the 
art-form  of  drama  the  great  truths  and  eternal  conflicts  within  all  mankind. 
Knock  there,  and  ask  your  heart  what  it  doth  know 
That's  hke  my  brother's  fault. 
(Measure  for  Measure,  II. 2.  137-138). 
r\URING  our  first  year  with 
Shakespeare,  we  studied  his 
greatness.  We  found  out  how 
much  he  meant  to  us  already,  as 
we  identified  long-known  expres- 
sions as  having  been  written  by 
Shakespeare.  In  separate  lessons 
we   considered  his   rare   quahty  of 
evoking  sensory  and  music-magic  in 
his  poetry,  his  beliefs  and  conflicts 
as  he  depicted  the  Elizabethan  world 
about  him,  and  his  ability  to  see 
truth  so  truly  that  always  he  de- 
picted good  or  evil  as  such.  As  each 
phase  of  his  genius  was  thus  treated 
separately,  each  of  his  individual  ex-