[Vol44 | July 1957 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Fiction | Title: Womans | Author: Canon]
EDITORIAL 
443 
six  generations  removed  from  their 
pioneer  mothers.  Do  the  same  at- 
tributes of  character  continue  to 
abide  in  their  descendants  who  now 
hve  in  ease,  blessed  with  plenty?  In 
a  time  of  adversity,  do  their  convic- 
tions of  the  truth  carve  out  a 
straight  path  to  be  followed? 
Do  the  same  hidden  forces  of 
spiritual  discernment  guide  Mary  in 
the  rearing  of  her  children  after  her 
husband  was  killed  in  an  auto  acci- 
dent, as  guided  Sister  Bailey  to  rear 
her  faithful  family  after  her  husband 
was  killed  by  the  Indians?  Sister 
Owens  accompanied  her  husband  to 
a  desert  wasteland  and  there  bore 
and  reared  his  children  amid  dang- 
ers and  privations— but  in  a  home 
filled  with  love  and  consideration. 
Does  Jane  possess  the  same  qualities 
as  she  leaves  her  small  girlhood 
community  to  accompany  her  hus- 
band to  live  among  a  strange  people 
in  an  alien  land?  Sister  Johnson  left 
all  she  loved  on  earth  for  the  greater 
love  of  the  gospel  and  found  joy 
among  faithful,  welcoming  saints. 
Does  Gretchen  receive  the  loving 
welcome  in  this  day  from  her  sisters 
in  the  gospel? 
The  same  opportunities  for  ac- 
quiring a  pioneer  spirit  along  life's 
way  continue  to  be  offered  Latter- 
day  Saint  women  today,  although  in 
different  surroundings  and  under 
different  guises.  The  way  no  longer 
holds  the  prairie  schooner,  the  In- 
dian, the  buffalo.  It  traverses  the 
earth,  the  waters,  and  the  clouds 
with  incredible  speed,  yet  the  way 
remains  hard.  Household  tasks  are 
accomplished  with  incredible  ease, 
yet  love  must  grow  and  be  nurtured 
to  fill  the  home.  In  the  evening 
family  members  may  sit  and  behold 
with  varied  interest  the  wonders  of 
the  world;  but  the  closeness  and 
solidarity  of  family  life  must  be 
carefully  cultivated.  No  longer  does 
the  family  invariably  gather  around 
the  dining  or  kitchen  table  beside 
the  warm  stove  while  the  clock  ticks 
and  the  eight  staccato  strokes  mark 
the  time  for  prayers  and  bed  for  the 
younger  family  members.  This  pat- 
tern has  passed  away,  and  a  new  one 
must  be  charted  to  reap  the  former 
harvest. 
The  pioneer  mother  accepted 
harsh  conditions  to  build  upon  ever- 
lasting values.  Pleasant  conven- 
iences and  the  wish  for  luxuries  did 
not  blind  her  to  her  supreme  duty 
of  motherhood.  She  served  her 
household  first  and  her  presence  was 
considered  vital  to  the  well-being  of 
family  members.  She  stood  a  source 
of  virtue  and  strength  in  times  of 
trouble  and  joy— a  beloved  compan- 
ion and  a  gracious,  loving  mother. 
Perchance  a  pioneer  woman  is 
any  woman  who  accepts  her  daily 
living  pattern  and  performs  its  tasks 
as  they  are  allotted  to  her.  This  she 
does  because  of  her  firm  conviction 
in  the  individual  plan  for  her  of  an 
all-wise  Heavenly  Father.  She  sees 
beyond  the  present  through  to  the 
glorious  end.  Her  pioneer  spirit 
gives  her  an  incentive  to  make  do 
with  what  is  at  hand  and  causes  her 
to  stand  independent  of  the  urges 
and  follies  of  the  world.  Of  over- 
whelming importance  is  the  spiritual 
welfare  of  her  family.  Habits  of 
industry  and  thrift  set  the  example 
for  her  children. 
When  the  children  who  watched 
the  parade  are  themselves  old,  will 
they,  too,  be  pioneers,  respected  and 
revered? 
-M.  C.  S.

TO  THE  FIELD 
uju^ing  cJextoooks  for  Uxelief  Society  cLessons 
"C^ROM  inquiries  which  come  to  the  general  board  it  would  seem  that 
some  Relief  Society  officers  and  class  leaders  are  not  acquainted  with 
the  recommended  procedure  for  acquiring  necessary  textbooks  for  lessons. 
The  education  counselor  in  both  the  stake  and  the  ward  should  pre- 
sent to  the  president  of  the  respective  organizations,  a  list  of  the  textbooks 
which  will  be  needed  to  teach  the  Relief  Society  lessons  during  the  coming 
season.  She  should  then  be  authorized  to  purchase  these  books  with  funds 
from  the  Relief  Society  general  fund.  The  education  counselors  should 
see  that  the  name  of  the  Relief  Society  organization  is  written  in  each 
book  before  giving  it  to  the  respective  stake  or  ward  class  leader  for  her 
use.  At  the  end  of  the  course  the  education  counselor  is  responsible  for 
collecting  the  books  and  placing  them  in  the  Relief  Society  library. 
Where  a  teacher  wishes  to  purchase  her  own  textbook  in  order  to  be 
able  to  mark  it  and  keep  it  after  the  conclusion  of  the  course,  it  is  recom- 
mended that  the  Relief  Society  organization  should  also  purchase  a  text- 
book: 1.  in  order  that  the  book  may  become  a  part  of  the  Relief  Society 
library;  2.  to  be  available  for  use  by  those  given  special  assignments;  3.  be- 
cause a  change  of  teachers  might  be  necessary  during  the  course,  and  at 
that  time  it  might  be  impossible  for  the  Relief  Society  organization  to 
purchase  a  copy  of  the  desired  textbook. 
Education  counselors  are  urged  to  safeguard  Relief  Society  libraries 
and  to  be  alert  to  opportunities  of  adding  to  them  gifts  of  Church  and 
other  worthwhile  books. 
Sere  rut  If 
Dora  Toone  Biough 
I  saw  serenity  today  in  such 
Abundance,  and  I  lingered  for  awhile — 
A  woman's  countenance  with  just  a  touch 
Of  tenderness  that  blended  with  a  smile; 
Her  aged  face  showed  wisdom  and  a  ray 
Of  brightness  beamed,  much  like  refiner's  gold 
In  rare  design,  for  she  had  found  each  day 
A  lasting  graciousness  while  growing  old. 
Life's  twilight  calm  had  brought  tranquility. 
And  love  of  God  gave  her  serenity. 
Page  444

Uxeapes  QJroni  the  (bouth  .jtfncan    1 1  iission 
Submitted  hy  Nora  C.  Duncan 
Chutney 
1  lb.  dried  apricots  4  c  white  vinegar 
1  lb.  onions  10  chilies  or 
1  lb.  raisins  3  tbsp.  cayenne  pepper 
2  c.  sugar  (amount  of  pepper  may  be  decreased 
2  oz.  salt  if  desired) 
Leave  apricots  in  vinegar  overnight.  The  next  day  mince  all  ingredients.  Add  sugar 
and  mix  \^ell  and  then  bottle.     Do  not  cook. 
Serve  as  a  condiment  with  beef  curry  or  chicken  curry  and  rice,  but  can  be  served 
with  any  kind  of  meat. 
Pickled  Fish 
3  lbs.  fish  (salmon  or  halibut)  Vz    tsp.  salt 
Vz   c.  water  %   tsp.  pepper 
Cut  the  fish  into  half-inch  thick  slices,  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Arrange  care- 
fully in  a  large  baking  pan  and  then  pour  in  the  water  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven,  400 
degrees,  for  fifteen  minutes  or  until  tender.  In  the  meantime,  prepare  the  curry  sauce 
as  follows: 
Curry  Sauce: 
3  large  onions  3  tbsp.  sugar 
2  c.  vinegar  2  tbsp.  curry  powder 
1/4    c.  water  2  tbsp.  flour  or  corn  flour  (corn  meal) 
Peel  the  onions  and  cut  into  fairly  thick  rings.  Put  into  the  saucepan  and  add 
the  water.  Then  bring  the  onions  to  the  boiling  point  and  allow  them  to  cook  for  two 
or  three  minutes,  but  not  until  soft.  Mix  together  in  a  bowl  the  dry  ingredients  and 
add  the  vinegar.  Then  stir  mixture  into  the  onions  and  water.  Cook  until  smooth,  for  a 
minute  or  two. 
Arrange  the  fish  carefully  in  a  glass  dish  into  which  pour  first  a  layer  of  the  curry 
sauce  and  then  a  layer  of  fish.  Cover  the  la}'cr  of  fish  with  the  remaining  curry  sauce. 
Leave  for  a  day  or  two  before  serving.  It  will  keep  indefinitely  in  a  refrigerator  or  cool 
place. 
BOBOTEE 
1  lb.  beef  (raw  or  cooked)  6-  8  almonds 
1  onion  1   tsp.  salt 
1  tbsp.  curry  powder  1   tbsp.  lemon  juice  or  vinegar 
1  tbsp.  chutney  1  large  slice  of  bread 
1  egg 
Put  the  meat  through  a  food  chopper,  together  with  the  onion.  Add  the  curry 
powder,  chutnev,  coarsely  chopped  almonds,  salt,  and  vinegar  or  lemon  juice,  together 
with  bread  soaked  in  cold  water  then  squeezed  dry.  Break  in  one  egg,  then  mix  well 
together.  Put  into  a  pie  pan  and  place  on  top  shelf  in  a  hot  oven  (400  degrees)  for 
about  fifteen  minutes  or  until  a  crust  has  formed. 
Raw  meat  will  produce  a  better  flavored  Bobotee  than  cooked  meat.  Mutton  for 
this  dish  is  superior  to  beef.  (Instead  of  chutney,  apricot  jam  may  be  used,  or  sugar, 
and  should  almonds  not  be  available,  they  may  be  omitted.) 
Page  445