[Vol44 | July 1957 | Sequence: 09 | Category: General Feature | Title: Editorial | Author: Sharp]
Today, Latter-day Saint women, by lineage or adoption, are four, five, EDITORIAL six generations removed from their pioneer mothers. Do the same attributes of character continue to abide in their descendants who now live in ease, blessed with plenty? In a time of adversity, do their convictions of the truth carve out a straight path to be followed? Do the same hidden forces of spiritual discernment guide Mary in the rearing of her children after her husband was killed in an auto accident, as guided Sister Bailey to rear her faithful family after her husband was killed by the Indians? Sister Owens accompanied her husband to a desert wasteland and there bore and reared his children amid dangers and privations—but in a home filled with love and consideration. Does Jane possess the same qualities as she leaves her small girlhood community to accompany her husband to live among a strange people in an alien land? Sister Johnson left all she loved on earth for the greater love of the gospel and found joy among faithful, welcoming saints. Does Gretchen receive the loving welcome in this day from her sisters in the gospel? The same opportunities for acquiring a pioneer spirit along life's way continue to be offered Latterday Saint women today, although in different surroundings and under different guises. 'The way no longer holds the prairie schooner, the Indian, the buffalo. It traverses the earth, the waters, and the clouds with incredible speed, yet the way remains hard. Household tasks are accomplished with incredible ease, yet love must grow and be nurtured to fill the home. In the evening family members may sit and behold 443 with varied interest the wonders of the world; but the closeness and solidarity of family life must be carefully cultivated. No longer does the family invariably gather around the dining or kitchen table beside the warm stove while the clock ticks and the eight staccato strokes mark the time for prayers and bed for the younger family members. 'This pattern has passed away, and a new one must be charted to reap the former harvest. The pioneer mother accepted harsh conditions to build upon everlasting values. Pleasant conveniences and the wish for luxuries did not blind her to her supreme duty of motherhood. She served her household first and her presence was considered vital to the well-being of family members. She stood a source of virtue and strength in times of trouble and joy—a beloved companion and a gracious, loving mother. Perchance a pioneer woman is any woman who accepts her daily living pattern and performs its tasks as they are allotted to her. 'This she does because of her firm conviction in the individual plan for her of an all-wise Heavenly Father. She sees beyond the present through to the glorious end. Her pioneer spirit gives her an incentive to make do with what is at hand and causes her to stand independent of the urges and follies of the world. Of overwhelming importance is the spiritual welfare of her family. Habits of industry and thrift set the example for her children. When the children who watched the parade are themselves old, will they, too, be pioneers, respected and revered? —M. C. S.