[Vol44 | July 1957 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Article | Title: Your | Author: Morris]
Once you begin, you will naturally find YOUR CHILD IS A MUSIC LOVER many opportunities to translate a simple activity into a_ simple thythm. A little three-year-old neighbor girl, like most children, loves to swing. She composed her own rhythmical accompaniment and can be heard chanting "swinker swanky" as the moving swing carries her up and down. HY is Mother Goose a favorite friend of every boy and girl? It is the rhythmic beat of "Peter, Peter, pumpkin eater," or "Jack and Jill went up the hill" that stimulates and entertains. As soon as a toddler can repeat a few simple words, or even before, he eagerly joins hands for "Ring Around the Roses." As soon as his balance is sure he combines thythm and melody as he joins other children in a game of "London Bridge" or "Farmer in the Dell." Each time I sit at the piano my three-year-old mounts his rocking horse, and my five-year-old shifts his tricycle into high gear. The horse gallops at full speed and the tricycle circles the living room. Soon they request a march, then parade around the room singing, waving flags in the air, or beating the rhythm on a cardboard drum. A favorite rainy day activity for the three of us is to sit at the piano with a songbook. Favorite nursery thymes are illustrated and written with musical accompaniment. Often the children sit at the piano alone, turn the pages of the book, drum on the keys, and sing the rhyme indicated by the picture. 'There are many excellent songbooks for children of nursery ages. 453 A phonograph has great value in developing a love for music. Children respond with skipping, marching, and dancing to the easy rhythms of children's songs. 'They relax readily at quiet time with soft classics playing in the background. While they naturally react to the simple, their developing minds and emotions should be challenged to reach and explore. A musical instrument and phonograph are valuable aids in musical enjoyment, but they are not indispensable. 'There is no instrument more flexible than the human voice. Children often enjoy their singing more when there is no loud accompaniment to limit their spontaneity. It is fun for them to play their own accompaniment by tapping out rhythm on a tambourine or a cardboard drum as they sing their favorite songs. Later, other thythm instruments may be added, and, in time the entire family can join in a kind of musical companionship. In my opinion, a love for music should not be considered an indication that a young child is ready for formal music training. In the early years he is entitled to uninhibited enjoyment. He should dance when he feels like dancing, and sing when the urge to sing is upon him. He should march or rock or just sit and listen as the feeling within him dictates. Performance and drill are enemies to the natural growth of his inborn love of pleasant sounds. If he has been given his freedom, he will be eager to learn the skills that will permit him to play a musical instrument when he is mentally and 454 physically mature enough to take this step. With musical activities in your home, your own love for this important part of our heritage will be deepened as you watch it daily growing within your child. You will thrill when your tiny toddler says, "Mommy, let's sing a song." Your own awareness of your RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1957 world will deepen as you see the creative expressions of your child and know that his enjoyment is deep and full. You will be convinced that music is not something to be ignored until a determined point in the child's life, then suddenly turned over to a specialist. You will know that it is an inseparable part of growth and development from the very beginning. Leah A. Hamilton Collects Potted Plants Does Handwork, Weaving. And Painting and A oe rearing a large family of eleven children, Mrs. Leah A. Hamilton, Magrath, Alberta, Canada, now finds time to relax and work at her hobbies, which include quilting, crocheting, embroidery work, painting, weaving, handicrafts in copper and aluminum. 'To add to the variety, she keeps an interesting collection of potted plants as well as a lovely outdoor garden. The singing of her jovial little canary is a pleasant accompaniment for her working hours. In addition to the four quilts pictured above, she has made at least one hundred other quilts for friends and relatives. This number does not include the numerous baby quilts, which she says do not count. She shares the pleasure of these works of art by giving the completed articles to her family and friends. The Bright Star CHAPTER 5 Dorothy S. Romney Synopsis: Kathy Tracy, an orphan, who wishes to become an artist, lives with her Aunt Emerald Jewel Tracy in an oldfashioned house overlooking San Francisco Bay. Kathy applies to a neighbor, Phineas Fenton, for employment; however, Aunt Em suffers a partial stroke, and Kathy gives up the promised position. During her illness, Aunt Em mentions some money in a chest which is kept in Grandfather Tracy's China house. Kathy, using her aunt's illness as an excuse, postpones her marriage to Jim Parker. A stranger, Marc Hale, rents the China house, and Kathy begins to work on a painting to enter in an art scholarship contest. Marc tells her that he thinks the painting is very good. ATHY worked furiously at her K household tasks during the next few weeks to allow time for her painting. She was determined not to think about Mr. Marc Hale and his exasperating manners, but he kept slipping into her mind, regardless. About eleven o'clock one morning she heard the chug-chug of Jim's old coupe coming down the hill. Hurrah, she thought, Aunt Em can have fresh eggs for lunch. Jim was a dear to leave his work and come over two or three times weekly to bring them fresh eggs, especially since he refused to accept a single penny in payment. She dropped her dustcloth on the elaborately carved old grand piano she had been polishing and dashed out onto the side veranda. She hoped "His Happiness" would be draped in his deck chair, and observe with what enthusiasm she greeted the visitor. Kathy ran down the veranda steps, the morning sun so bright in her eyes that for a moment she didn't see the figure seated beside Jim. He stopped his car with a jerk. All of his movements were decisive and quick. It wasn't until then that she saw a buxom young lady. Without getting out of the car, Jim handed Kathy three cartons of eggs, then he surprised her by saying, "That'll be ninety cents. I'll give you wholesale prices." 'Then, after a poke in the ribs from the elbow of his companion, he turned and introduced her to Kathy. "This is my new neighbor, Lina Carlson," he said. "We're on our way into town for a poultry-raisers convention. Lina has bought the place next to mine, the one that belonged to Lars Swenson." "Hello," said Kathy, thinking that interest in this new neighbor might explain Jim's absence from the Tracy place the past few days. "Pleased to meet you,' the girl replied, looking at Kathy curiously. "Til get the money for you," Kathy said, slightly embarrassed, and wondering what Jim could have told the girl to make her stare so openly. "No, [ll drop back tonight. You can give it to me then," he answered, and Kathy saw the surprise and hurt in the eyes of the girl beside him. "IT do believe she's in love with him," she thought. She was amazed that she felt no sense of loss. As soon as they had driven away, Kathy turned to go back to her cleaning, but not before she saw the tall figure of Marc Hale coming toward the house. Page 455 456 Her first impulse was to turn him away—tell him Aunt Em was resting, but no, she told herself firmly, he's good for Aunt Em. And _besides, Kathy discovered, Marta had already seen the visitor approaching the house, and was on her way to bid him come in. Here was a young man with a problem on his mind, Kathy had decided. HE was in the hall dusting the banisters a few minutes later, when the voices of her aunt and Marc Hale came clearly to her. 'They were apparently discussing the art contest. "She'll win," ing. "She might," the young man said, doubtfully. "I don't know why not,' Aunt E'm's voice held a note of defiance. "I had artistic ability, and she's my niece, isn't she?" Kathy fled up the stairs to the privacy of her own bedroom. She'd win all right. She'd have to. She couldn't bear to let Aunt Em down. She'd finish the picture this very day, then go into the village and see if there was some parttime job she could get. Perhaps at that little souvenir shop. 'The proprietor was a Mr. Rickson, whom Kathy knew slightly. A job such as this would give her time for the housework, and to care for Aunt Em, too. She gathered her materials and almost flew up the stairs to the cupola. The ocean was calm, shimmering under the autumn sun. She turned her back to it, away from the golden brilliance, and could see that Marc Hale was just nosing his coupe Aunt Em was sayRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1957 into Pine Road, headed toward the bridge and San Francisco, no doubt. She reluctantly turned back to her picture, thinking there'd be no pleasure trips for Miss Kathy Tracy from this day on. She worked furiously for some time, then tilted her head back and surveyed her work. Satisfied that the picture was at last as good as she could make it, she put down her paint brush. She could hear the crash of the waves against the cliffs below the Fenton place, and she suddenly realized that a brisk wind had sprung up. 'The mother-of-pearl sea had turned to an angry green. It's certainly lucky, she thought, that the waves pound out their fury before they reach our China house. She remembered then that Aunt Fm had told her to clear out one of the chests in the China house. She had a buyer for it, and since Marc Hale had given permission for her to enter his domain, she'd hurry and clear it now. Kathy had not entered the China house since Marc Hale had moved in. 'The place was orderly and clean. She tiptoed reverently about, almost able to feel Grandfather Tracy's presence here, almost able to hear his voice as he told his fascinating tales of the sea. It had grown quite chilly, but even on the warmer days Marc built a fire in the tiny fireplace. Kathy could often see the smoke curling comfortably up over the little cabin. The embers were still aglow. She couldn't resist tossing a small log on them from the store in the miniature woodbox. She stood watching as the flames built up, grew taller, THE BRIGHT STAR lit up the ceiling and the corners of the little room. HE took off her sweater and threw it on a nearby chest. Dear Aunt Em, she thought, it's like parting with a friend for her to have to give up one of her treasures, but she never complains. Well, this will be the last one, she vowed. As her sweater skimmed over the top of the chest, she heard a small crash, and looked down to see one of the smaller chests on its side on the floor—the one Aunt Em had told her never to touch. Its contents tumbled out in a musty assortment of trinkets. Aunt Em's most cherished childhood mementoes, Kathy knew. Some tiny carved animals, bits of Indian beadwork, an old doll with a china head, an elaborate pink satin skirt, and staring black eyes. Nothing of any real value, Kathy found herself thinking. 'Then she picked up a small parcel. Carefully wrapped in yellowed tissue paper tied with ribbon, its diamond encrusted star shape plainly visible through the thin covering, was Aunt Em's "bright star," surely the one she had muttered about in her illness. Kathy sat down shakily on the larger chest, the points of the star digging into her palm, as she pressed it in her hand. She had had the feeling from the first time her aunt had mentioned it that the bright star concerned her own destiny. Had she the courage to unwrap it? She finally bent down and _ teplaced the contents of the chest. She was much too excited to delve through the larger chest now.