[Vol44 | July 1957 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: The]
[The Long and Short of Marriage]

I tucked mine carefully in at the neck of my favorite ted and white checkered gingham everyday dress, feeling glad I didn't have to have it all covered up with a big bib like Mama was tying around baby sister Linda; her dress, made of the same goods as mine, hardly could be seen. All at once Papa spoke up so loud it made me jump. "Lib, why can't we make some ice cream?" ("Lib" was Mama when Papa got excited or mad.) "I could get some ice from old man Gregory's place; he's got a cave full of it up there, he stored from the creek last winter. He'd let me have enough to freeze a gallon of ice cream." Mama's eyes lighted up brightblue for a minute and then faded. "It's five miles, at least, to Gregory's. Take half a day." "Well! What's half a day when it's the Fourth of July? We ought to have some ice cream, and I guess we can knock off for the afternoon —when it's a holiday like this!" "Besides, we haven't any ice cream freezer," Mama said. "Oh, I had forgotten," Papa said. "Why didn't we bring along the Co-op store when we came to Oregon? 'The hardware department, anyway." He began to rub _ his chin, his face thoughtful. "Maybe we can rig up something; there ought to be some way " RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1957 "IT don't know... Ice cream freezers are so different from anything else,' Mama began. "But you re good at rigging things up, dear, just maybe, you." "I've got itl" 'Papa jumped up and went to the corner where the wash tubs were, and set the smallest one on the ironing table. Then he got a ten-pound size lard pail from the high shelf, one of the extra strong pails that we were saving to put honey in, when the extracting was done, and set it inside the tub. Taking hold of the pail by the little round knobs at the sides, he began to turn the pail this way and that; a half-turn left and then a half-turn night. "Now, see—we put the custard in the pail and put the cover on; then we put the ice and salt around it, in the tub, and I move it back and forth this way. Every so often we open it up and you can beat the custard with the eggbeater to make it fluffy. See?" "Oh, darling!" Mama said, breathless. "If you aren't the smartest man! Do you suppose it'll really work?" "I don't see why not." Papa came back to finish his eating. He looked mighty proud. "Anyway, we're sure going to find out. Now, look, you'd better get the custard made nght away, so it'll have time to cool. I'll raise you a tubful of water to set the kettle in; that'll help, and you can save the water for washday or Saturday baths. And how about making a chocolate layer cake to go with the ice cream?