[Vol44 | July 1957 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: America | Author: Matthews]
She gazes out over the Atlantic Ocean as if to welcome the ships that sail AMERICA, CRADLE OF LIBERTY into the harbor. And down beneath her feet there is an inscription, a little verse, written by Emma Lazarus, and it reads like this: Give me your tired, your poor, Your huddled masses yearning to breathe free, The wretched refuse of your teeming shore, Send these, the homeless, tempest tossed, to me: I lift my lamp beside the golden door. Now the time was drawing very near for the restoration of the gospel. In just a very few years the Prophet was born, and his name was Joseph, and his father's name was Joseph—just as the prophecy said it would be. And to him was given the power to bring forth a "voice from the dust," a voice of those who slumbered, which we know to be the golden plates that Moroni had buried there many centuries before. 'The Prophet Joseph's mission was to organize and establish the Church, then seal his testimony with his blood. Because of cruel persecution, the Lord made it known to President Brigham Young to bring the Saints to the western desert. The Lord prepared and reserved this place. It was unattractive to everyone else, these large sagebrush valleys—these 451 rugged, defiant mountains. This area was not a bit alluring; in fact, it was believed that the white man could not survive hereabouts. But the Latter-day Saints were glad to come here because they could establish their own kingdom, could worship God with liberty and according to the dictates of their own conscience. And the Lord had said that he would hide them up for awhile until they were able to take care of themselves. So the valleys of the Rocky Mountains became the cradle of the infant Church. But now it has grown and is able to stand on its own feet, and is spreading Out its borders in all directions, forming new stakes and missions in many parts of the world. Freedom is the responsibility of everyone. If we wish to keep this the Land of the Free, we must live the gospel. That is the only condition under which freedom and liberty are promised to us. If we love Life, Liberty, and the Pursuit of Happiness, we must obey the laws of the land, and keep the commandments of the God of this land, who is Jesus Christ. I know of no better way to begin than to say with Joshua of old, "But as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord."