[Vol44 | July 1957 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Fiction | Title: Social]
Social Science — Latter-day Saint Family Life Lesson 8—The Family Is Forever Elder John Farr Larson For Tuesday, October 22, 1957 Objective: To show the influence of gospel principles on the Latter-day Saint family. The family is like a book—the children are the leaves, The parents are the covers that protective beauty gives. At first the pages of the book are blank and purely fair, But time soon writeth memories and painteth pictures there. Love is the little golden clasp that bindeth up the trust, Oh, break it not, lest all the leaves shall scatter HE pattern of life provided by the gospel in its fulness has produced a philosophy of family living which is peculiar to Latter-day Saints. Its application brings happiness and satisfaction as well as the acceleration of the God-like potentialities of family members. Family life is regarded by the world as the social institution of greatest influence in molding the lives and personalities of people. While Latter-day Saints agree with this, the deeper significance of the family as a character builder is seen only when the eternal nature of the family is understood. Because of its eternal nature, and its importance in shaping the destinies of the individual and be lost. —Anonymous family members, we must strive to make family life what God intended it to be. What Is a Family? "Family" is easily defined, but the meaning it holds for family members depends upon many factors. 'The age, background, training, status, and belief of the individual all make for important deviations from a general concept. In one sense we are the product of the family. Just as certain physical characteristics are passed from one generation to another, so, too, are personality characteristics passed by means of family living. Webster defines the family as: 480 "The body of persons who live in one house, and under one head; a household." But a family is more than this. It is many things. It is at once a social institution, an accomplishment, an opportunity, a dream, the pleasant past and future hope. A family is what you make it, a burden or blessing. It is warmth, security, tender care, and "happy birthday" all rolled into one. Contentment, pride, and memories are all parts. Most of all it is togetherness, the sharing of substance and love. Its pleasures erase its sacrifices. From it spring the hope of today and the leaders of tomorrow. Basic Family Responsibilities In our present-day civilization families have three primary responsibilities: 1. The function of child bearing. 2. The responsibility for physical care and support. 3. The responsibility for teaching children personal virtues. While the family is logically situated to perform _ this important function, there are many children who are deprived of full opportunities because of the families with which they live. The Latter-day Saint Family Latter-day Saint philosophy of family life has certain ingredients which characterize it as unique and different from traditional family life. Its flavor stems from the basic principles of the gospel. 'To understand it fully, all Latter-day Saints should strive to know and understand the principles of the gospel. 'To achieve the maximum joy and happiness it offers, we must translate this philosophy into a pattern for everyday living by making it our constant RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1957 guide. Below are set forth, in brief, some of the major doctrinal influences of the gospel upon family life. A fuller discussion of these and other items will be had in subsequent lessons. 1. The Personality of God: Latter-day Saints believe that when the Lord said "... Let us make man in our image, after our likeness..." (Gen. 1:26), he meant exactly what he said. The life and teachings of Christ, as well as of the prophets since the creation, further convince us that we worship a personal God. This concept within the family creates a feeling of kinship with Deity and makes worship a natural, joyous, and comfortable experience for all family members. Children can approach the Lord as an understanding Father, with faith and confidence rather than with fear and apprehension, and talk to him as they would converse with an earthly father. Families with this knowledge feel that they have an additional member who watches over them with love and understanding, who provides their joys and _Dblessings and lightens their sorrows, and who stands at the door ready to dwell in their midst, if their homes are in tune with his teachings. His nearness must be recognized and the power of his influence comes by invitation from within the heart and soul of each person who seeks it. It is as if his entry is through a door having an inside latch only. 'True Latter-day Saints are thus impelled conscientiously to conduct their family life on a higher spiritual plane than they would otherwise, and having done this, their homes are ready for the Spirit of the Lord to enter. LESSON DEPARTMENT Behold, I stand at the door, and knock: if any man hear my voice, and open the door, I will come in to him, and will sup with him, and he with me (Rev. 3:20). 2. The Nature of Man: 'The eternal nature of the spirit of man, together with the correlative doctrines which regard the spirit of man as sacred and the body a temple of God, unite to create within the hearts of Latter-day Saints a reverence for the individual and a high regard for the dignity of the human soul. 'These become influential and integral parts of the everyday living of all true Latter-day Saints. What is man, that thou art mindful of him? And the son of man, that thou visitest him? For thou hast made him a little lower than the angels, and hast crowned him with glory and honour. Thou madest him to have dominion over the works of thy hands; thou hast put all things under his feet (Pss. 8:4-6).... For I, the Lord God, created all things, of which I have spoken, spiritually, before they were naturally upon the face of the earth.... And I, the Lord God, had created all the children of men for in heaven created I them... (Pearl of Great Price, Moses 3:5). The following is taken from a letter of President Joseph F. Smith and his two counselors on this important subject:... The written standards of scripture show that all people who come to this earth and are born in mortality had a preexistent, spiritual personality as the sons or daughters of the Eternal Father.... A spirit born of God is an immortal being. When the body dies the spirit does not die. In the resurrected state the body will be immortal as well as the spirit... (Gospel Doctrine, gth Edition, page 12). 481 The elements are the tabernacle of God; yea, man is the tabernacle of God, even temples; and whatsoever temple is defiled, God shall destroy that temple (D. & C. 93:35). Remember the worth of souls is great in the sight of God (D. & C. 18:10). 3. The Plan of Salvation: 'Three aspects of the plan of salvation have tremendous impact upon family life within the Church. A. The Principal of Eternal Progression. Our knowledge of where we came from, why we are here, and where we are going is a powerful force in directing our conduct during mortal life. Knowing the end from the beginning and the direct course to be followed is, in itself, a great time and effort saver. It has been said that the world steps aside for the man who knows where he is going. Surely if we pursue the "straight and narrow road," nothing can deter our progress. We know that much must be accomplished on earth, if we are adequately to prepare for eternity. Life is a_ brief span in the eternal scheme. 'This gives purpose and direction to our goals and helps us utilize our resources to best advantage. Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect (Mt. 5:48). No man will ever enter there until he has consummated his mission; for we have come here to be conformed to the likeness of God.... And we must become more and more like him... In love, in charity, in forgiveness, in patience, long-suffering and forbearance, in purity of thought and action, intelligence, and in all respects, that we may be worthy of exaltation in his presence (Gospel Doctrine, gth Edition, page 276). 482 The doctrine of eternal improvement and progression instills within Latter-day Saints a desire and determination to teach their children correct principles upon which they can grow spiritually. B. The Marriage Covenant: 'The Prophet Joseph Smith taught that "marriage was an institution of heaven, instituted in the garden of Eden," and that "it was necessary it should be solemnized by the authority of the everlasting Priesthood" (D. H. C. Il, page 320). Not only do Latter-day Saints believe that marriage was instituted of God, but that a marriage solemnized in the temple of the Lord by the authority of the Holy Priesthood extends beyond this life into eternity. This concept not only strengthens the Latter-day Saint marriage, but causes young people to prepare for parenthood and to choose a mate with much greater care than if it were a union for this life only. C. Family Life Eternal: 'The Prophet Joseph Smith also taught: Except a man and his wife enter into an everlasting covenant and be married for eternity, while in this probation, by the power and authority of the Holy Pniesthood, they will cease to increase when they die; that is, they will not have any children after the resurrection (DHC. V, page 391). Neither are the relationships that exist or should exist, between parents and children, and between children and _ parents, of an ephemeral nature, nor of a temporal character. They are of eternal consequence, reaching beyond the veil, in spite of all that we can do (Gospel Doctrine, page 272). This great principle provides ample incentive for parents to teach children the importance of preparRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1957 ing for temple marriage and to resolve to settle for nothing less. It also firmly roots the family unit here on earth. Elder Joseph Fielding Smith has said: The family unit continues only in the celestial kingdom.... The family is the unit in the kingdom of God.... Outside the celestial kingdom there is no family organization. 'That organization is reserved for those who are willing to abide in every covenant and every obligation which we are called upon to receive while we sojourn here in this mortal life (Doctrines of Salvation, II, page 67). 4. Priesthood Presides in the Home: Nowhere in all the world, except in Latter-day Saint homes, do you find the Priesthood presiding over the family. 'The recognition of the husband and father as the ultimate authority within the home does much to avoid dissension. The patriarchal order is of divine origin and will continue throughout time and eternity. There is, then, particular reason why men, women and children should understand this order and this authority in the households of the people of God, and seek to make it what God intended it to be, a qualification and preparation for the highest exaltation of his children. The father presides at the table, at prayer, and gives general directions relating to his family life whoever may be present. Wives and children should be taught to feel that the patriarchal order... Of God has been established for a wise and beneficent purpose, and should sustain the head of the household and encourage him in the discharge of his duties, and do all in their power to aid him in the exercise of the rights and privileges which God has bestowed upon the head of the home (Gospel Doctrine, page 287). 5. Free Agency: And now remember, remember, my brethren, that whosoever perisheth, perish- LESSON DEPARTMENT eth unto himself; and whosoever doeth iniquity, doeth it unto himself; for behold, ye are free; ye are permitted to act for yourselves; for behold, God hath given unto you a knowledge and he hath made you free (Helaman 14:30). (See also Joshua 24:15.) The right to choose is fundamental. How we choose, in this life, will largely determine how we progress and what our status will be hereafter. 'The process is a power by which man can reach great heights. The principle covers all phases of life which involve decision. Parents soon learn that children develop most when they have grasped the process of choosing. 'The direction in which they develop depends upon what they have absorbed from their environment which influences their decisions. When they learn to make sound decisions they are prepared to progress in relation to God and in relation to the things of this life. 6. Gift of the Holy Ghost: In addition to the principle of free agency, the Lord has given us a great gift to assist us in the exercise of our agency—the gift of the Holy Ghost. This can serve as a constant guide in our decisions, if we are attuned to its promptings; it is our spirit of truth. This gift sets us apart from the world and can radiate a great influence in our homes, if we choose to let it. And I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another Comforter, that he may abide with you for ever; Even the Spirit of truth; whom the world cannot receive, because it seeth him not, neither knoweth him: but ye know him; for he dwelleth with you, and shall be in you 483 But the Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in my name, he shall teach you all things and bring all things to your remembrance, whatsoever I have said unto you (John 14:16, 17, 26). 7. Family Responsibilities: Latterday Saints are taught responsibility for one another. Parents are charged of the Lord:. Inasmuch as parents have children in Zion that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of the hands, when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents. For this shall be a law unto the inhabitants of Zion. And they shall also teach their children to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord (D. & C. 68:25-26, 28). The Authorities of the Church have continually stressed that parents are responsible for their children physically, morally, and spiritually. The great Welfare Plan emphasizes the prime responsibility of the family in meeting the material needs of family members. Children are trained to care for needy and aged parents. Children visualize the reality of eternity when taught to seek out their ancestors so that temple work can be done for them. While not strictly doctrinal influences, two other areas of family influence connected with the Church are worthy of mention. Religious Training From the cradle Latter-day Saints are taught the principles of the gospel, the attributes of God, his nearness, the power of prayer, and are surrounded by sweet and refining 484 influences. 'The missionary system contributes understanding and spirituality. All of this tends to make children fine individuals, good family members, and it prepares them for their responsibilities of parenthood. Pioneer Heritage There are characteristics to be found in our people which are traceable to our pioneer ancestry. 'These are particularly noticeable to "outsiders" who observe our religion in action for the first time. In October 1947, Mr. E.. Kent Kane, grandson of Colonel Thomas L. Kane, was a guest at general conference. President George Albert Smith invited him to address the conference, a privilege rarely extended a nonmember. He spoke "as an outsider who has had the good fortune to come and observe with a friendly, if not an understanding heart." 'The following excerpts are taken from Mr. Kane's remarks:. When I came out here to Utah I saw how your people believed that the Lord was your shepherd. You have created your own green pastures where there were none and brought in your own running waters when you could find none to walk by. I read how the women of this Church had at one time prepared a table in the presence of your enemies from the food that their husbands had wrenched from these deserts.... I saw that the Lord has restored your souls. I could not help but observe that here in Utah I had beheld the works of the Lord made manifest. Your religion is strong.... It is impressive to look over this vast audience and to see to what extent the religion of your Church is a religion of men. I am afraid there are a lot of churches that would perish entirely if it were not for the fact that their religion reposes today RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1957 almost entirely in the hands and _ hearts of the mothers. And yet I can't believe that the battles of the Lord are to be fought entirely by the distaffs but I think it takes the good strong arms of the men of any religion such as I see before me here to fight those battles with a good frm hold upon the sword of the Spigie. Yours seems to be a growing religion You are not static. Yours is a joyous religion.... Yours is a singing religion and I believe... The words of religion dissolved in music soak into the human soul better than any other way. It is as if when you open your mouths to sing the spirit entered in Yours is a family religion.... For three years in this last war I was a division officer in the Navy... Some of the very finest men that we had in our commands in the service were from the Mormon Church and they were by all odds the cleanest. I don't know what they do elsewhere, but I do say that those I saw were very creditable members of your congregation. And I want to add that it was not always as easy as it would have been in Salt Lake during conference week (Reports of the One Hundred Eighteenth Semi-Annual Conference of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, October 1947, pp. 161-164). Such observations as these reactivate our desire to let our light so shine before men that they may see our good works and glorify our Father which is in heaven. If this light is properly kindled in our homes the result will be a spirit of love, devotion, democracy, industry, service, progression, peace, and tranquility. Supplemental References 1. "Contributions of the Church to Home and Family"'—Stephen L Richards, The Relief Society Magazine, December 1954, page 790. LESSON DEPARTMENT 2. "The Mission of the Church and Its Members" — President David O. McKay, Improvement Era, November 1956, page 781. 3. "Influence of Relief Society in' the Home'"—Marion D. Hanks, The Relief Society Magazine, September 1955, page 566. Questions for Discussion 1. How can Latter-day Saint parents teach their children to live their religion without compromise, and yet be tolerant and friendly with young people of other faiths? 2. What are the basic religious beliefs and practices which distinguish Latter-day Saint homes from the rest of the world? 3. What pioneer characteristics are worthy of perpetuating in our homes? 4. What Church influences do you remember most from the home in which you grew up? Are you emulating these examples in your own home? "QUICK RECOVERY" ELECTRIC ee I WATER HEATER LIVE BETTER 'ELECTRICALLY with FULL HOUSEPOWER UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. 485 poaeell AT THE CONSOLE—Felton 2.50 CHANCEL ECHOES—Felton 2.50 CHAPEL ORGANIST—Presser 1.50 DEVOTIONAL ORGAN ALBUM— ASPeF oo 0. Eeeeeceeee cn enneeenneeeeeeeeeen eee 2.50 FIRST LESSONS ON THE ORGAN—Nevin 2.0..0 -0 eeee. E ee 1.75 INSTRUMENTAL CHURCH SERVICE SELECTIONS 1 & 2— Kohlmann. U0.2. 0 eeeea. 1.25 LIGHTER MOODS—Presser 1.50 ORGAN METHOD-—Stainer 2.50 ORGAN VOLUNTARIES 1 & 2— Schreiner _ 0 2. E eee eeeea. 3.50 33 FAVORITE ORGAN SOLOS— Schirmer 0200.200.222000---eeeeeseeeeeee 1.50 Use DA 15 Sal Please send the music indicated above. Books for the CHURCH ORGANIST 93 SHORT SOLOS—Schirmer.__ 2.50 ORGAN IN THE CHURCH—Asper 2.75 Music Sent on Approval this advertisement as your order blank YNES MUSIC COMPANY E. Ist South t Lake City 11, Utah CL) On Approval [] Charge (J Money Enclosed ecenecos L 145 NORTH UNIVERSITY, PROVO e Salt Lake City 11, Utah ' 15 E. Ist South When Mother Mlade Butter Mae R. Winters NE of the most vivid memories I have of my home and my mother was when she made butter. To her, making butter was not a task but an art in which she excelled. Mother was very proud of her skill. First of all came the separating of the golden cream in the separator. 'Twice daily the warm milk was brought from the barn into the milkhouse; there the cream was separated from the milk. The cream was caught in a large blue bowl and allowed to cool completely before it was emptied into a big crock with the other cream. It was then allowed to mpen. Mother seemed to know just when the cream was sour enough to make the best butter; she judged more by the smell than by anything else. The churning of the cream took place very early in the morning, usually at five o'clock in the summertime. Morning was the best time for working, and the cream was just right when it was cool. Singing always went along with the swish-swish of the cream as it dashed to and fro in the old wooden churn. Most often it was a hymn mother sang or an old English folk song. Many times we children were awakened by the churning and mother's singing as she went cheerfully about her task. I suppose my mother owned many churns in her life, but the one I remember best was an old wooden one that was also owned by my grandmother. It had been brought from England and then across the plains in an ox-driven wagon. The churn stood on legs just the right height for sitting and turning. I was never allowed to turn the churn, for mother declared that I turned either too fast and slopped cream all over the kitchen, or too slowly and the butter never came. Churning morning found us close to the kitchen as we watched in fascination. The golden butter was lifted from the churn with a wooden paddle into a large, flat wooden bowl. We were not allowed to wash this bowl with soap, for this would make the butter stick to the bowl. Mother had found this out through long years of experience. The molding of the butter into pounds was a ritual in itself. It called for extra cate because all of the buttermilk must be removed. Over and over again it was pressed against the side of the bowl, turned and worked, and, finally, washed in ice-cold water. Then the right amount of salt was added. The salt was never measured; mother knew just how much was needed. The mold was supposed to hold just one pound, but Mother always heaped some on top so that the top of each pound was round instead of flat. When weighed at the store, each so-called pound was actually much more. Oh, how sweet and good the butter tasted on hot biscuits, on pancakes made from the buttermilk, or on big slices of homemade bread with strawberry jam! After the butter was molded, each pound was wrapped in tissue-thin paper which bore Mother's name and address. She was justly proud of her name on that butter wrapper because it was a symbol of her ability and artistry. Taking the butter to market was a joy to all of us children. To be denied the privilege of hitching the horse, Old Dan, to the little buggy and riding with Mother into town was the most severe punishment that could be administered. Most of the butter went to the local merchant where it was traded for our food and clothing; some, however, was distributed to customers. Mother had the same customers for years. Twenty-five cents was a good price per pound. Mother often received as much as ten cents a pound more, because her butter was always sweet, clean, and of good measure. Yes, one of the fondest memories I have of my dear mother was her making of butter. Page 486 lo Hate in Our Hearts Wilma Boyle Bunker (ay our relationship with others, little irtitations sometimes creep in which, if given a chance, grow far beyond their importance. It seems that most of us are capable of taking the big problems in our stride, but find ourselves nettled and frustrated by the small and, actually, unimportant annoyances. Could it be that we are so engrossed in our own narrow point of view that we fail to consider the other side of a situation? Could it be that we are not big enough to overlook the faults of others, or recognize that, probably, we have a few imperfections, too? If we would find contentment and happiness, we can't hold grudges, we can't be petty or envious or jealous. We must look for the good in others; we must acknowledge our own failings; we must be tolerant and understanding; we must forgive seventy times seven. We must leave no room in our hearts to hold the memory of an injustice, for life is far too brief and too precious to hate. Black Fulls Ethel Jacobson Black Hills of the Dakotas, Black Hills—I did not know It was your brooding pine trees That named you so. Trees so dark and somber That on each craggy height They stand like peaks of thunder, Swarthy as night. It was your ponderosas Whose sable shadow spills The length of the Dakotas On mourning hills, THE WORLD'S FINEST PIANOS Mason & Hamlin The Stradivari of Pianos EVERETT Finest Toned Spinet Piano Built Cable-Nelson Finest Low Priced Piano Built Beesley Music Co. Pioneer Piano People 70 S. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH © BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover—$2.50 Leather Cover—$3.50 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles eee 35 150 to 300 miles 2.0.00..39 300 to 600 miles — 0002 2. 45 @ 600 to 1000 miles — 00002...54 1000 to 1400 miles — 0000..002.0.22.. -64 1400 to 1800 miles 2.000. 76 Over 1800 miles 0022.. Eee.87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-258] 31 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah Page 487 Vida Fox Clawson's original Historic Tours which will take you to the HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT and the JAMESTOWN FESTIVAL, New York City, Washington D. C., Mount Vernon, Williamsburg, Yorktown, Sharon Vermont, Boston, etc., are the finest Historic Tours there are. Incidentally, you get the most for your money. Our Historic Train Tour leaves Salt Lake City July 26th. Our Historic Bus Tour leaves Salt Lake City July 20th. We shall be glad to send you our day to day programs. Write or phone: VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Phone: EMpire 4-2017 CRAFT SUPPLIES The best in the most popular supplies for Handwork Basketry, Aluminum Etching, Copper and Brass Tooling, Textile Painting, Shellcraft, Flower Making, "Chenile" Supplies, Plastic Plant Making, Ice Cream Stick Craft Supplies Copper Enameling Free Craft Instruction ZIMS HOBBIES 240 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah Page 488 Birthday Congratulations One Hundred One Mrs. Harriet Persis TANNER WATSON St. Anthony, Idaho Ninety-five Mrs. Tora N. JAcoBsEN STARKIE Vernal, Utah Mrs. Amanpa J. HartTMaNn Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-three Mrs. Matitpa C. Rossins Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-two Mrs. MINNIE PETERSON BRowN Coalville, Utah Mrs. LovisA ANN BYBEE Grantsville, Utah Ninety Mrs. Exvirzasetu McKay GLeep Malad, Idaho Mrs. Laura LAURETTE WOODLAND TANNER Salt Lake City, Utah >< - Qh, Soolish Fleart Lillian E. Miles Tonight the waves come rushing Across the sandy bars, With their foam caps tipped with silver By a nebula of stars. Beneath that shimmering star-glow The tides run deep and strong, And with their outward racing They take my heart along. Oh, foolish heart that follows To lands remote and _ strange, Oh, heart forever seeking In restlessness for change, Awake and know that moon tides Which wash a far-off shore, Turn backward in their season And flow toward home once more. Study Helps on the Doctrine and Covenants 1. TEACHINGS OF THE DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS William E. Berrett Elder Berrett points out how these revelations provide personal directives to members of the LDS Church in their manner of living and how these scriptures also provide the basis of Church government as restored in the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times. $3.00 2. THE DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS AND THE FUTURE Roy W. Doxey In twelve succinct chapters, the author brings to the fore the unique features of the Doctrine and Covenants and points up the three principle purposes of this Standard Work: to warn the world, to tell events of the future, and to give evidence of the reality beyond the grave. $1.50 3. DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS QUESTION GUIDE 7 < =~ = book Co. JO cues aes wee ee ee ee ee ee Roy W. Doxey Here's a new and different approach to the study of the Doctrine and Covenants. Over twelve hundred questions in this new book bring out salient doctrinal points. After each question, references are listed. This is indeed a valuable aid to all who wish to study or teach Doctrine and Covenants scriptures. $1.50 My iachings a of the Luts ine ane \ WL l I I l I J Salt take City Utah I I DESERET BOOK COMPANY = © aa ay 2 3 I 44 East South Temple I Salt Lake City, Utah Name ooeoeeccececcccccceeccccecesescceseeseeceseececeessenenenees I Gentlemen: I Enclosed you will find ( ) check AIEESS) mevenemeecneeemeecenrcneccteactceennnereceasercne ] ( ) money order ( ) charge to my acCity------------.----ee-eeeeees Zone State I count for the encircled (numbered) books: Residents of Utah include 2% sales tax. I This little boy (and his daddy, too) loves emember: You can relyonU and!