[Vol44 | July 1957 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Fiction | Title: Sixty]
[Sixty Years Ago]
Sixty    LJears  J^go 
Excerpts  From  the  Woman's  Exponent,  July  i,  and  July  15,  1897 
"For  the  Rights  of  the  Women  of  Zion  and  the  Rights  of  the 
Women  of  All  Nations" 
LETTER  FROM  CANADA:  The  Relief  Society  is  still  looking  after  the  interests 
and  welfare  spiritually  and  temporally  of  the  sisters  in  this  locality,  there  are  com- 
paratively few  who  require  financial  assistance,  but  there  are  many  who  are  willing  and 
able  to  assist  in  sickness,  of  which  we  have  very  little,  or  aid  in  the  many  benevolent 
enterprises  to  keep  means  in  our  treasury.  We  have  organized  one  new  society  in  the 
last  year  that  is  composed  principally  of  young  married  sisters.  ...  It  is  a  matter  of 
surprise  the  amount  of  talent  and  excellent  ability  that  seems  to  be  the  natural  in- 
heritance of  the  children  of  the  Saints.  .  .  , 
— Zina  Y.  Card 
THE  BRIGHAM  YOUNG  MONUMENT  UNVEILED:  The  immense  multi- 
tude burst  into  applause  as  President  Woodruff  arose,  then  silence  fell  again  and  the 
honored  veteran  of  ninety  years  said  in  clear  tones  and  audible  voice  while  the  great 
multitude  was  hushed  in  eager  listening,  "In  the  name  of  God  I  now  unveil  this 
monument,"  and  instantly  the  Stars  and  Stripes  began  to  unfold  and  fall  away  from 
the  granite  column,  revealing  to  the  people  the  heroic,  bronze  figure  of  the  great 
Pioneer  leader  Brigham  Young. 
— Editorial 
DEATH  OF  THE  GOVERNOR'S  WIFE:  We  offer  a  tribute  of  love  to  Teresa 
Clawson  Wells,  the  beloved  wife  of  Governor  Heber  M.  Wells  and  daughter  of  H.  B. 
and  Sister  Margaret  Clawson  of  this  city.  ...  As  a  child  the  writer  remembers  Teresa 
as  very  beautiful  in  face  and  figure,  fair  as  a  lily,  with  long  golden  curls,  and  better  still, 
gentle  in  all  her  ways  and  beloved  by  her  associates  for  her  unsefishness  and  amiability. 
.  .  .  She  was  a  devoted  daughter  and  affectionate  sister.  .  .  ,  Mrs.  Wells  died  in  the 
very  bloom  of  womanhood  in  the  midst  of  a  rich  life  ...  an  exceptionally  de\oted  wife, 
a  tender  and  true  mother  and  well  calculated  to  entertain  and  do  honor  to  the  position 
of  her  husband  as  the  Chief  Executive  of  the  State.  .  .  . 
— Editorial 
OLD  AGE 
How  grand,  how  beautiful  is  old  age! 
The  crowning  glory  of  a  life  well  spent. 
That,  looking  back,  can  see  no  rent, 
But  noble  effort  writ  on  every  page; 
Truly  it  is  a  noble  heritage, 
That  lovely,  gentle  grace  which  time  has  lent.  .  .  . 
—Ruth  M.  Fox 
A  PIONEER  WOMAN'S  BIRTHDAY:   Monday,  June   14th,  was  the  birthday 
anniversary  of  Sister  Mary  Jane  Thompson,  a  pioneer  of  1847,  although  at  that  time 
she  had  not  entered  her  teens.     Sister  Thompson's  parents  were  veterans  in  the  Church 
and  she  is  the  cousin  of  Prest.  Joseph  F.  Smith,  their  mothers  were  sisters  and  the 
daughters  of  Joseph  Fielding,  who  with  his  family  was  among  the  first  who  embraced 
the  Gospel  in  this  dispensation.     Sister  Sarah  M.  Kimball  and  Sister  Thompson's  son 
Robert,  arranged  a   surprise  for  Sister  Thompson   and   invited  a  few  of  her  intimate 
friends  and  Sister  Kimball  presented  her  with  an   elegant  ornamented  birthday  cake 
with  her  name  on  it. 
— News  Note 
Page  440

Woman *s  Sphere 
Ramona  W.  Cannon 
OELLE  S.  SPAFFORD,  General 
President  of  Relief  Society,  in 
May,  attended  the  convention  of 
the  American  Association  of  Practi- 
cal Nurses  in  Atlantic  City,  New 
Jersey,  as  a  member  of  their  board. 
She  also  met  with  the  members  of 
the  National  Board  of  the  American 
Mothers  Association  in  New  York 
City,  the  association  which  selects 
the  American  Mother  of  the  year. 
She  conferred  with  leaders  of  the 
National  Council  of  Women  of  the 
United  States,  and  met  informally 
with  officers  of  the  New  York  Stake 
Relief  Society. 
jyrRS.  HAZEL  HEMPEL  ABEL, 
of  Lincoln,  Nebraska,  sixty- 
eight  year  old  mother  of  four  daugh- 
ters and  one  son  (all  outstanding), 
is  the  American  Mother  of  1957.  An 
ex-school  teacher,  she  successfully 
managed  her  husband's  big  con- 
struction company,  as  president,  for 
fifteen  years  after  his  death.  She 
also  contributed  much  to  her  home, 
church,  and  community.  For  fifty- 
five  days,  in  1954,  ^^^^  filled  an  un- 
expired term  as  United  States  Sena- 
tor, having  beaten  fourteen  men 
competitors  in  a  political  race. 
lyjRS.  GENEVIEVE  RAINE 
^  ^  CURTIS,  Salt  Lake  City,  a 
great-granddaughter  of  Brigham 
Young,  and  wife  of  A.  R.  Curtis, 
retired  businessman,  was  named 
Utah  Mother  of  the  Year.  Mrs. 
Curtis  is  the  first  and  only  woman 
to  be  elected  to  the  Salt  Lake  City 
Board  of  Education.  A  director  of 
several  business  firms,  she  has  also 
been  very  active  in  civic  assignments 
and  Church  work.  Adept  in  the 
domestic  virtues,  she  has  reared 
eight  sons,  two  daughters,  (one  died 
at  seventeen),  and  a  foster  daugh- 
ter for  twelve  years.  Mrs.  Curtis  has 
given  years  of  devoted  service  to  Re- 
lief Society.  All  her  children  hold 
positions  of  responsibility. 
RS.  DAN  SHERWOOD,  sixty- 
seven-year-old  Latter-day  Saint 
widow  of  Mesa,  Arizona,  was  select- 
ed as  Arizona  Mother  of  1957.  Mrs. 
Sherwood  is  the  mother  of  ten  sons 
and  four  daughters,  all  of  unusual 
accomplishments.  She  also  has  sixty- 
seven  grandchildren. 
QERRI  BUCHER,  Latter-day 
Saint  girl  from  Salt  Lake  City, 
is  doing  some  beautiful  ballet  work. 
She  has  been  on  an  extended  tour 
with  the  San  Francisco  Ballet  Com- 
pany through  the  Far  East,  includ- 
ing India  and  the  Philippines,  and 
will  be  on  another  foreign  tour  soon. 
Page  441 
M'