[Vol35 | September 1948 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: The Art of Beautiful Part]
trying  to  talk  at  the  same  time.  Fin-  isn't  this  a  beautiful  evening!" 
BETWEEN  FRIENDS 
Mabel  Jones  Gabbott 
Last  night  we  disagreed; 
And  though  the  cause  was  slight, 
I  found  no  peace  at  all 
Until  we  talked  it  right. 
Today,  the  threads  that  link 
Our  hearts  and  bind  our  need 
Are  stronger  than  before — 
Because  we  disagreed. 
HOMECOMING 
Josephine  J.  Harvey 
He  saw  all  the  dear,  familiar  things 
That  had  not  changed  while  he  had  been  away. 
And  deep  within  his  heart  he  knew 
How  good  it  was,  to  be  back  home  to  stay. 
He  turned  to  her  who  stood  beside  him. 
Whose  lifted  face  was  waiting  for  his  kiss. 
Her  love — ^his  beacon  light — ^would  never  dim 
He  thought:  God  meant  heaven  to  be  like  this.

Plain  and  Savory 
NEW  RECIPES  FOR  FAMILIAR  FOODS 
Sara  MiUs 
IF  
broiled  steak  and  fried  chicken 
aren't  compatible  with  your 
budget,  don't  get  discouraged. 
There  are  still  good  things  to  be  had. 
Some  of  the  world's  best  dishes  had 
their  origins  in  the  cookery  of  folk 
who  had  to  make  plain  food  savory 
and  nourishing. 
One  such  dish  I  herewith  christen 
savory  cabbage  roJJs.  Up  until  now 
it  has  graced  our  table  unnamed.  It 
is  served  on  gala  occasions  when  our 
guests  are  specially  appreciative  of 
good  food.  Fine  fare  it  is  also  for 
the  family.  If  it  isn't  eaten  in  one 
meal,  it  is  even  better  the  second 
day.  Six  to  eight  persons  may  be 
served  from  it. 
To  round  out  savory  cabbage  rolls 
into  a  complete  meal,  add  only  a 
salad  and  a  dessert.  For  balanced 
vitamins  and  an  artistic  effect,  you 
may  like  to  serve  a  yellow  vegetable 
with  the  meal.  Carrots,  shredded 
and  baked  in  a  covered  dish,  are 
good.  Frozen  cut  corn  is  another 
easy  and  pleasing  vegetable  to  serve. 
If  you  have  been  with  me  these 
past  months,  you  know  that  I  favor 
fruit  for  dessert.  If  I  serve  a  fruit 
dessert,  I  let  the  salad  be  a  green, 
tossed  one.  But  if  I  serve  cake,  I 
make  a  fruit  gelatine  salad.  Along 
with  some  hot  dinner  rolls  or  some 
French  bread,  oven-toasted  with 
garlic  butter,  a  splendid  meal  awaits. 
SAVORY   CABBAGE   ROLLS 
1  large  head  of  green  cabbage  (or  two 
smaller  ones) 
1  pound  ground  lean  beef,  either  chuck 
or  round,  but  lean 
Page  620 
Vz  pound  ground  lean  pork 
1  generous  teaspoon  chili  powder 
1  teaspoon  or  so  grated  onion 
1  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce 
1  clove  garlic  minced  (optional) 
dash  of  Tabasco  sauce 
1  cup  uncooked  rice,  preferably  brown 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
pulp  from  1 -quart  can  tomatoes 
juice  from  i -quart  can  tomatoes 
1  small  can  tomato  sauce  (optional) 
a  pinch  of  basil 
First  remove  the  core  from  the  head  of 
cabbage.  Place  the  cabbage  in  a  covered 
pan  containing  a  cup  of  water  and  let  cook 
until  the  leaves  begin  to  soften.  Then  re- 
move the  cabbage  from  the  water. 
Meantime  prepare  all  the  other  ingredi- 
ents except  the  tomato  juice  and  basil  by 
mixing  them  together  in  a  large  bowl. 
Make  sure  that  you  have  plenty  of  salt. 
Place  a  spoonful  of  the  mixture  in  the  cen- 
ter of  a  cabbage  leaf  and  fold  envelope- 
wise,  securing  the  leaf  with  a  toothpick. 
Set  the  rolls  gently  in  a  large,  heavy  ket- 
tle, preferably  one  with  a  rack,  or  in  an 
electric  casserole,  if  you  are  lucky  enough 
to  own  one.  Pour  the  tomato  juice  over 
the  cabbage  rolls;  add  salt  and  pepper  and 
the  pinch  of  basil;  cover  and  let  steam  for 
at  least  two  hours.  After  the  dish  has 
steamed  awhile,  I  like  to  add  the  tomato 
sauce,  or  a  portion  of  it.  The  trick  in 
cooking  is  to  simmer  the  rolls  gently  and 
get  just  the  right  amount  of  liquid  for 
serving.  If  you  get  too  little,  the  dish  is 
dry,  too  much,  and  the  quality  isn't  right. 
You  may,  if  necessary,  add  extra  juice,  a 
little  chili  sauce,  or  even  water. 
Serve  this  dish  in  the  electric  casserole 
or  transfer  it  to  a  large,  heated  platter. 
Then  wait  for  the  reactions. 
lyfY  second  special  meat  dish  is 
Lamb  Stew,  spelled  with  capi- 
tals. This  is  no  ordinary  lamb  stew 
such  as  legend  connects  with  board- 
ing houses  or  hasty  cooks.    It  is  a

PLAIN  AND  SAVORY 
621 
delectable  dish,  good  enough  for  any 
company  or  Sunday  dinner.  The 
cheapest  cuts  of  lamb  are  used.  And 
you  will  do  well  to  remember  that 
the  origin  of  this  dish  is  French. 
LAMB  STEW 
2  pounds  lamb  cut  in  small  pieces  (neck, 
shoulder,  or  breast  cuts) 
10  or  so  small  white  onions  or  one  med- 
ium sliced  onion 
2  tablespoons  flour 
3  cups  meat  stock  or  3  cups  water  and  3 
bouillon  cubes 
salt  and  pepper 
1  flavor  bouquet    (1   small  bay  leaf,    1 
sprig  thyme,  6    sprigs   parsley   and  3 
sprigs  celery  leaves,  tied  with  thread) 
1  clove  garlic 
1  cup  tomato  puree 
3  carrots,  diced 
Vi   pound  cut  green  beans 
Vz   pound  green  peas 
2-3  potatoes  sliced 
1  small  can  mushrooms  (or  fresh,  if  you 
have  them) 
1  tbsp.  chopped  parsley  for  serving 
cheese  and  parsley  dumplings  (option- 
al) 
Sear  the  lamb  pieces,  with  fat  trimmed 
off,  until  all  sides  are  browned.  Bacon 
drippings  are  good  for  this.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  add  the  onions,  peeled, 
or  peeled  and  sliced,  and  cook  until  they 
are  well  browned.  Drain  off  all  the  fat 
and  put  the  mixture  in  a  stew  pot  or  large 
earthen  casserole.  Now  sift  the  two  table- 
spoons of  flour  over  the  meat  and  mix 
well.  Next  add  gradually  the  three  cups 
of  stock  and  the  cup  of  tomato  puree,  the 
clove  of  garlic,  salt  and  pepper,  and  the 
bouquet,  which  you  have  previously  tied 
with  a  thread.  Bring  the  mixture  to  a 
boil,  then  let  it  simmer  slowly  for  about 
an  hour.  Then  add  the  diced  carrots,  the 
potatoes,  the  string  beans,  and  peas,  along 
with  the  mushrooms  and  let  simmer  un- 
til the  vegetables  are  tender.  Taste  also  for 
seasoning.  Remove  the  bouquet  and  serve 
on  a  heated,  deep  platter  with  the  parsley 
dusting  the  top  of  the  stew. 
If  you  like  dumplings,  drop  them  onto 
the  stew  about  twelve  minutes  before  the 
dish  has  finished  cooking.  Add  a  handful 
of  chopped  parsley  and  1/3  cup  grated 
cheese  to  your  favorite  dumpling  recipe. 
Or  you  may  prefer  a  shortcut  to  dump- 
lings. Mine  is  to  mix  a  half  cup  of  milk 
with  a  cup  of  prepared  waffle  flour  and 
season  with  the  cheese  and  parsley.  Re- 
member not  to  remove  the  lid  while  the 
dumplings  are  steaming. 
Serve  a  fruit  salad  with  this  Lamb  Stew 
or  a  dessert  of  fresh  fruit  and  cheese.  You 
need  make  no  apologies. 
A  hint  on  baking  potatoes:  prick  them 
with  a  fork  before  you  place  them  in  the 
oven.  This  allows  the  steam  to  escape 
and  leaves  the  potatoes  mealy. 
Put  new  potatoes  in  boiling,  salted  wat- 
er. Old  potatoes,  cooked  in  their  jack- 
ets, should  be  covered  with  cold,  salted 
water. 
OMNIPOTENCE 
/eanette  P.  Pairy 
I  saw  the  yellow  moon  above  the  clouds 
That  climb  into  the  blue  of  peaceful  skies, 
A  silence  filled  the  woods  like  huddled  sheep. 
Save  when  the  crimson  leaves  fell  down  to  sleep. 
There  was  no  afterglow  of  summer  life. 
Only  the  flash  of  a  late  robin's  breast; 
I  saw  the  grass,  frost-browned  at  winter's  will. 
The  rivulets  that  trickled  cold  and  still. 
I  was  not  troubled  that  skies  were  leaden 
And  leafless  aspens  graced  the  frost-touched  hills, 
A  Power  greater  than  our  own  bestows 
The  miracle  of  crimson  woods  and  snows.

The  Family  Picture  Show 
Ivie  H.  Jones 
President,  Spanish-American  Mission  Relief  Society 
MY  Dear  Aunt  Martha:  I  guess  I  really  shouldn't  address  you  as  Aunt,  but  that's 
what  Mother  used  to  call  you.  Let's  see,  you  must  be  a  third  cousin,  but  that's 
unimportant.  You  belong  to  the  same  family  and  have  some  Calkins  blood  in  your 
veins,  and  that  makes  me  proud  of  you,  even  though  I  have  never  seen  you.  And  be- 
cause you  are  a  relative  and  the  oldest  h\ing  member  of  your  side  of  the  family,  I  am 
WTiting  you  this  letter. 
Under  separate  cover,  we  are  mailing  you  quite  a  collection  of  photographs,  snaps, 
and  tintypes.  I  am  sure  you  would  wonder  what  on  earth  it  was  all  about,  if  I  did  not 
write  and  explain  the  matter  in  advance. 
Last  night  we  held  our  annual  "Family  Picture  Show."  It's  an  old  idea  of  Mother's 
and  has  grown  into  quite  an  event  in  our  family,  and  because  it  was  Mother's  original 
idea,  we  have  held  it  on  her  birthday.  Sometimes  it  has  been  impossible  for  all  of  us 
to  get  together  on  that  particular  day,  as  we  are  quite  scattered,  but  in  that  e\ent  we 
have  held  our  own  "Family  Picture  Show." 
Yesterday  was  Mother's  birthday,  the  first  one  since  she  died,  and  all  of  us  were 
together,  quite  a  group,  children,  grandchildren,  and  great-grandchildren.  We  met  in 
the  old  home,  and  in  spite  of  the  fact  that  Mother  and  Daddy  weren't  there,  \\t  carried 
on  according  to  the  old  custom. 
We  all  had  dinner  together,  then  while  the  children  played  outside,  we  grownups 
checked  our  photographs,  exchanged  with  each  other,  and  then  saw  to  it  that  ever)- 
picture  was  identified  by  the  names  on  the  back  in  ink. 
I  can  just  hear  Mother  say,  "Upon  my  word,  it  makes  me  sick  the  way  some  folks 
spend  good  money  for  pictures  and  then  never  take  the  time  to  identif}'  them.  Then 
when  the  old  folks  die,  the  pictures  mean  nothing  to  the  children,  so  into  the  waste- 
basket  they  go." 
Mother  and  Daddy  were  always  proud  of  our  family,  from  the  ancestors  to  the 
great-grandchildren,  and  they  wanted  all  of  us  to  know  our  relatives  when  we  saw  them. 
The  "Family  Hour"  that  followed  was  choice,  for  it  offered  opportunity  for  our 
different  families  to  present  their  talents  in  song,  original  composition,  and  verse.  And 
the  climax  of  the  evening  was  our  "Family  Picture  Show." 
We  have  a  toy  projector  that  Mother  and  Daddy  bought  for  us  one  Christmas, 
it  must  have  been  twenty-five  years  ago.  It  cost  only  five  dollan,  but  it  has  certainly 
been  worth  many  times  that  amount  to  us.  It  is  a  simple  little  projector,  equipped  with 
two  electric  hghts  and  mirrors  inside,  and  we  just  sHp  the  pictures  in,  upside  down,  and 
they  are  reflected  on  a  screen  or  wall — and  in  color,  too.  It  is  surprising  how  even  our 
httle  tots  know  their  great-grandparents,  their  aunts  and  uncles,  and  even  their  cousins, 
when  their  pictures  are  thrown  on  the  screen.  I  am  sure  that  I  would  know  you  if  I 
should  ever  see  you  on  the  street,  even  though  I  have  never  actually  seen  you  in  my  life. 
Yesterday  afternoon  we  found  a  lot  of  pictures  of  your  side  of  the  family  that  we 
thought  would  mean  more  to  you  than  they  do  to  us.  However,  if  you  already  have 
copies  of  them,  we  would  be  glad  to  have  them  back.  There  is  one  tint\-pe  marked 
"Cristina"  that  I  am  especially  interested  in.    Perhaps  it  is  because  my  full  name  is 
Page  622

THE  FAMILY  PICTURE  SHOW  623 
Anna  Cristine,  but  I  have  always  been  called  just  "Ann."    Or  perhaps  I  am  interested 
in  the  picture  because  there  is  a  bit  of  mystery  connected  with  it. 
I  have  asked  Mother  about  this  tintype  many  times,  only  to  be  put  off.  Once  I 
asked  her  why  she  didn't  add  the  maiden  name,  or  married  name,  that  is,  if  this  Cristina 
was  ever  married.  But  Mother  merely  said,  "No,  my  dear,  Cristina  signed  her  own 
name  on  the  picture  and  that's  enough.  I  know  who  she  was  and  you  children  don't 
know  her  anyway."  / 
Still  not  satisfied,  I  pressed  the  matter  further,  only  to  be  told  that  Cristina  died 
when  her  first  baby  was  born  and  the  second  wife  did  such  a  marvelous  job  of  caring 
for  her  baby  that  the  family  decided  not  to  tell  her  who  her  real  mother  was. 
"Put  the  tintype  back  in  the  drawer,"  Mother  said,  "I  will  be  going  to  Utah  some- 
time and  I  will  find  out  if  the  daughter  knows.  I  have  never  asked,  and  no  one  has 
ever  said." 
Once  Mother  did,  however,  write  something  on  the  bottom  of  the  picture,  and 
yesterday  we  used  a  magnifying  glass  and  made  out  the  name  of  Cristina's  parents.  May- 
be you  will  know  where  she  fits  into  the  family,  or  perhaps  she  is  just  a  dear  friend  of 
Mother's. 
Please  excuse  this  lengthy  letter,  and  if  you  do  not  know  to  whom  the  tintype  pic- 
ture belongs,  return  it  to  me,  as  I  would  like  to  keep  it. 
Lots  of  love  to  all. 
Your  cousin, 
Ann 
*  «  *  « 
My  dear  Ann: 
Your  letter  and  the  pictures  came  several  days  ago,  but  I  have  been  too  excited  to 
write.  The  children  and  grandchildren  are  all  coming  over  for  my  birthday  today  and 
we  are  having  our  first  "Family  Picture  Show."    Many  thanks  for  the  idea. 
Lots  of  love. 
Aunt  Martha 
P.S.  Yes,  I  know  who  this  Cristine  is,  and  the  tintype  is  worth  the  world  to  me.