[Vol35 | September 1948 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Editorial | Title: The Family Sharp]

Page 593 EDITORIAL  SEPTEMBER 1948 VOL. 35 No. 9
The Family Hour We live for time and for eternity....
This family organization being a unit in the great and perfect organization of God's work, and all destined to continue throughout time and eternity (Gospel Doctrine, page 348). [N order to help cement eternal family ties, a responsibility has been placed by the General Authorities upon every Relief Society mother to the end that she, under the direction of her husband, will see that a Family Hour is regularly observed in her family circle.
Last year Relief Society visiting teachers left in every Latter-day Saint home a pamphlet which set forth the purpose and suggestions for holding the Family Hour.
Some months have passed since the inauguration of this program and the responsibility that Relief Society members have for the success of the Family Hour is being re-emphasized.
Many families have already heeded this cad and are now reaping the blessings to be gained from the holding of the Family Hour in their respective families. However, there are still some families which, for one reason or another, have not yet made the Family Hour an integral part of their family life. It would be an ideal practice for every young couple, very soon after their marriage, to establish their own Family Hour. It would be a time for them to read and study the scriptures together, to discuss family problems as they arise and solve them in harmony with gospel principles.
Very valuable lessons Page 594 for marriage could be learned from reading.
Instructions on marriage and family life which have been given by Church leaders.
Enjoying recreation together should also form a part of their Family Hour, and not be overlooked. As children bless the union of such a couple, a Family Hour would already be well established in their home and the procedure might then be modified to suit the tastes of children of the varying age groups, all to the end that the  family would feel itself a unit and sense its obligation to progress as a unit here and hereafter. The position of the husband as the head of the family should always be recognized in any such gathering. For a newly married couple or a family in which the children are all small, the problems connected with the establishment of a Family Hour are negligible. The mother of children in the adolescent age group, however, may find some obstacles to overcome since the young people have probably become so accustomed to being left to their own pleasures and desires that they may resent giving up some activity in order to devote the time to be together as a family.
Under these circumstances, of course, the mother's first concern THE FAMILY HOUR would be to enlist the support of her husband in establishing a Family Hour.
Since the family is always present at dinner time, the dinner hour might be a good time at which to begin a Family Hour.
Guessing games which proceed along with the dinner catch the interest of teen-agers. 'To help build family solidarity the father might give a short talk, commending individual members for particular traits and giving encouragement on the means of overcoming faults. The father might also announce the time decided upon for holding the Family Hour thereafter.
Following the initial observance, Mother, as the instigator, may prepare special light refreshments and plan activities behind the scenes of as varied a nature as necessary to make the 595
Family Hour a time of pleasurable enjoyment. The children may take turns in planning programs and different-type activities since the more the active interest of each member of the family is aroused, the more successful will be the observances.
When one recalls the blessings promised to a family which faithfully holds a Family Hour, every Relief Society mother should resolve to enlist the support of her husband in instituting such an observance in her own family.
Only thus can Relief Society fulfill the call which has been placed upon it by the Church. The regular holding of a Family Hour, moreover, will aid parents in fulfilling the obligation of parenthood which the Lord has placed upon them. M. C. S.