[Vol35 | September 1948 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Article | Title: Florence J. Madsen]

The Art of Beautiful Tone Quality in Singing
PART II
Florence J. Madsen
Member, Relief Society General Board
The language of tones belongs equally to all mankind, and melody is the absolute language in which the musician speaks to every heart (Richard Wagner).
The Laws of Acoustics
BEAUTY of tone is dependent upon the presence of overtones with their fundamentals. To insure the proper predominance of these essential elements the singer must observe the laws of acoustics.
Some of these are:
(a) The motion of the vibrating column must be regular and unobstructed.
(b) The vibrations must be focused in the direction of, and into all possible open cavities for amplification.
(c) There must be no localization of tone in any one cavity, but equal activity to the exclusion of the others. All the cavities of the head and bones of the face are vocal resonators and, therefore, must be used in speaking and in singing.
Listening
Nature has given to men one tongue, but two ears, that we may hear from others twice as much as we speak (Epictetus).
While listening to music one should be so intent upon what he hears that he can recall, at will, the tone quality he has heard, for comparison with other tonal experiences that he might have.
Imitating
One of the most effective means of learning is that of imitating. This
[Note: The short articles on music which appear in the Magazine may form the basis for the discussions in the chorister's and organist's department at union meeting.]
Page 682
fact is voiced by Weiss in the following statement: "Imitation forms our manners, our opinions, our very lives." Imitation also leads to spontaneous originality. This is strongly asserted by Voltaire as follows: "A good imitation is the most perfect originality." In order to acquire perfect tone quality one must, therefore, imitate the perfect in tonal art.
Reasoning
Reasoning is the cornerstone of all sound thinking. It is basically essential to a full understanding of beautiful tone quality. Such reasoning should include, at least, the following facts:
(a) To become an aesthetic singer is a distinctive achievement.
(b) To produce beautiful tones one must first submerge his preconceived notions of tone to the more ideal type of tonal quality as heard in the singing of artists.
(c) The characteristics and mechanics of beautiful tones of the arts can be understood only in proportion as they are unfolded and applied in sincere efforts to sing.
(d) Tone quality can be improved only as far as faults are overcome and proper habits established.
It should be remembered that, as Gilpin says, ". . . Good habits are formed by acts of reason. . . ."