[Vol35 | September 1948 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Article | Title: Visiting Teachers Driggs]

LESSON DEPARTMENT 637
Visiting Teachers Messages Our Savior Speaks Lesson 3 "Inasmuch as Ye Have Done It Unto One of the Least of These My Brethren, Ye Have Done It Unto Me" Elder H. Wayne Driggs For Tuesday, December 7, 1948
Objective: To reaffirm what constitutes the true spirit of giving. Then shall the King say unto them on his right hand, Come ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world; For I was an hungered, and ye gave me meat: I was thirsty, and ye gave me drink: I was a stranger and ye took me in: Naked and ye clothed me: I was sick, and ye visited me: I was in prison, and ye came unto me. Then shall the righteous answer him, saying, Lord when saw we thee an hungered, and fed thee? Or thirsty, and gave thee drink? When saw we thee a stranger, and took thee in? Or naked, and clothed thee? Or when saw we thee sick, or in prison, and came unto thee? And the King shall answer and say unto them, Verily I say unto you, Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me (Matt. 25:34-40). IFE, in the main, is thought of as being temporal rather than spiritual. Most of us are earth-drawn throughout the majority of our living days. We seek learning, work, position, and favor among our fellow men. In our struggle to attain these, we find passing satisfaction in the material things of the world. But there are greater things than these which make the material gains of life of secondary importance. The important values are the joys of the spirit. 'These come from the perfect service of feeding the Master's sheep. It is said by modern teachers that if someone holds a grudge against you, and you can get that person to do you a favor, his enmity will disappear for we cannot dislike one to whom we do good. Is it not true that one reason for the love of parents for their children is that they minister lovingly to the needs of their offspring? How then can we demonstrate our love for our Savior whom we cannot meet face to face? By obeying the first great commandment and the second which is like unto it: by loving our neighbors as ourselves. Then we shall better understand that the Lord who so loved each of us that he suffered death that we might live, accepts the service we give any of our brethren as being given to him. What a great opportunity our Church affords us to give such service through accepting calls to work in any capacity. "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me" (Matthew 25:40). 
  SEPTEMBER 1948