[Vol35 | September 1948 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Article | Title: The Family Picture Jones]

The Family Picture Show Ivie H. Jones President, Spanish-American Mission Relief Society MY Dear Aunt Martha: I guess I really shouldn't address you as Aunt, but that's what Mother used to call you. Let's see, you must be a third cousin, but that's unimportant. You belong to the same family and have some Calkins blood in your veins, and that makes me proud of you, even though I have never seen you. And because you are a relative and the oldest hiring member of your side of the family, I am Writing you this letter.
Under separate cover, we are mailing you quite a collection of photographs, snaps, and tintypes. I am sure you would wonder what on earth it was all about, if I did not write and explain the matter in advance.
Last night we held our annual "Family Picture Show." It's an old idea of Mother's and has grown into quite an event in our family, and because it was Mother's original idea, we have held it on her birthday.
Sometimes it has been impossible for all of us to get together on that particular day, as we are quite scattered, but in that went we have held our own "Family Picture Show."
Yesterday was Mother's birthday, the first one since she died, and all of us were together, quite a group, children, grandchildren, and great-grandchildren. We met in the old home, and in spite of the fact that Mother and Daddy weren't there, it carried on according to the old custom. We all had dinner together, then while the children played outside, we grownups checked our photographs, exchanged with each other, and then saw to it that ever)- picture was identified by the names on the back in ink. I can just hear Mother say, "Upon my word, it makes me sick the way some folks spend good money for pictures and then never take the time to identify them.
Then when the old folks die, the pictures mean nothing to the children, so into the wastebasket they go."
Mother and Daddy were always proud of our family, from the ancestors to the great-grandchildren, and they wanted all of us to know our relatives when we saw them. The "Family Hour" that followed was choice, for it offered opportunity for our different families to present their talents in song, original composition, and verse. And the climax of the evening was our "Family Picture Show." We have a toy projector that Mother and Daddy bought for us one Christmas, it must have been twenty-five years ago. It cost only five dollars, but it has certainly been worth many times that amount to us. It is a simple little projector,  quipped with two electric lights and mirrors inside, and we just slip the pictures in, upside down, and they are reflected on a screen or wall — and in color, too. It is surprising how even our little tots know their great-grandparents, their aunts and uncles, and even their cousins, when their pictures are thrown on the screen. I am sure that I would know you if I should ever see you on the street, even though I have never actually seen you in my life.
Yesterday afternoon we found a lot of pictures of your side of the family that we thought would mean more to you than they do to us. However, if you already have copies of them, we would be glad to have them back.
There is one tintyped marked "Cristina" that I am especially interested in.
Perhaps it is because my full name is Page
622 THE FAMILY PICTURE SHOW 623
Anna Cristine, but I have always been called just "Ann." Or perhaps I am interested in the picture because there is a bit of mystery connected with it. I have asked Mother about this tintype many times, only to be put off. Once I asked her why she didn't add the maiden name, or married name, that is, if this Cristina was ever married. But Mother merely said, "No, my dear, Cristina signed her own name on the picture and that's enough. I know who she was and you children don't know her anyway." Still not satisfied, I pressed the matter further, only to be told that Cristina died when her first baby was born and the second wife did such a marvelous job of caring for her baby that the family decided not to tell her who her real mother was. "Put the tintype back in the drawer," Mother said, "I will be going to Utah sometime and I will find out if the daughter knows. I have never asked, and no one has ever said." Once Mother did, however, write something on the bottom of the picture, and yesterday we used a magnifying glass and made out the name of Cristina's parents. Maybe you will know where she fits into the family, or perhaps she is just a dear friend of Mother's. Please excuse this lengthy letter, and if you do not know to whom the tintype picture belongs, return it to me, as I would like to keep it. Lots of love to all. Your cousin, Ann My dear Ann: Your letter and the pictures came several days ago, but I have been too excited to write. The children and grandchildren are all coming over for my birthday today and we are having our first "Family Picture Show." Many thanks for the idea. Lots of love. Aunt Martha P.S. Yes, I know who this Cristine is, and the tintype is worth the world to me. She was an orphan girl from Norway. She joined the Church, and the rest of the family disowned her. Later, she came to Utah and married and had one daughter. We have spent a great deal of money trying to discover her parents. I am so glad that your mother wrote on the picture before she died, "Daughter of Tildy and Hans Nielson." Thanks a million Ann, that's my mother.