[Vol35 | September 1948 | Sequence: 27 | Category: Article | Title: Literature Gospel Driggs]

Literature of the Gospel Restoration
Lesson 3—Gospel Messages from the Book of Mormon
Elder Howard R. Driggs
For Tuesday, December 21, 1948
MAIN emphasis is given in the Book of Mormon to the "things of God." As a result, in every book of this scripture will be found awe-coined, principles of the gospel impressively and plainly stated, and prophetic literature of soul-stirring quality. All of these spiritual expressions are in accord with the Bible, whose divine lessons of life are amplified and clarified by this other "Book of Books."
Our readers may recall that in the study of the Bible from the literary viewpoint, we dealt with what Dr. Moulton calls Wisdom Literature. The book of "Proverbs" is made up of such literature—sayings of practical worth and uplift, pointing the way of righteousness. In the Book of Mormon, there is no such book. Bringing together the bits of wisdom, but similar gems of distinctive literary quality are to be found in many of the chapters of the book. Following are examples of these treasures of wisdom:
Yes, it is the love of God, which sheddeth itself abroad in the hearts of the children of men; wherefore, it is the most desirable above all things (1 Nephi 11:22).
The guilty taketh the truth to be hard; for it cutteth them to the very center (1 Nephi 16:2).
Adam fell that men might be; and men are that they might have joy (II Nephi 2:25).
See that ye have faith, hope and charity, and then ye will always abound in good works (Alma 7:24).
This is my glory, that perhaps I may be an instrument in the hands of God to bring some soul to repentance; and is my joy (Alma 29:9).
Do ye suppose that ye cannot worship God save it be in your synagogues only?—do ye suppose that ye must not worship God only once in a week? (Alma 32:10).
Blessed are they who humble themselves without being compelled to be humble (Alma 32:16).
Fools mock, but they shall mourn; and my grace is sufficient for the meek (Ether 12:26).
For the eternal purposes of the Lord shall go on, until all his promises shall be fulfilled (Mormon 5:22).
I love little children with a perfect love, and they are all alike and partakers of salvation (Moroni 8:17).
We have a labor to perform whilst in this tabernacle of clay, that we may conquer the enemy of all righteousness (Mormon 9:6).
Many, as they read these gems of spiritual thought, will recall others they have found in the Book of Mormon. A search for such treasures will bring true riches. What may be found of appeal to each one who seeks, will be more deeply impressed if the choice saying is written and kept in a little book of reference. This practice is commended.
Vitality will also be given to this search for precious lines if the gems are studied in their settings. For example, after the soul-testings 
THAT'S WHAT YOU GET IN a "among fons  a find any color you want to match any color in draperies, wallpaper anything. BENNETT''S 65
West First South and Bennett's branches and dealers in Utah and Idaho Our Tease Most food buyers like to 'shop in clean, light, airy stores where they may take all the time they desire to select the foods they eat. We have spared no expense or labor to make O. P. Skaggs System stores just such places. Try shopping at your nearest O. P. S. Store, just once. We know you will be back regularly. O. P, SKAGGS " STORES Page
641 MAN RUFF $2.25 $2.50 642 on the part of Lehi and Nephi to get to the borders of the sea, and build the ship for the great voyage, the "ball" was given for their help and guidance. And Nephi with appreciative heart says, "Thus we see that by small means the Lord can bring about great things" (I Nephi 16:29). Again when Alma admonishes his erring son Corianton as quoted in part in our previous lesson, the sorrowful father says, "Do not suppose... Ye shall be restored from sin to happiness. Behold, I say unto you, wickedness never was happiness" (Alma 41:10). Some of these profound lines of wisdom sprinkled through the pages of the Book of Mormon, lay emphasis on certain basic themes. For example, liberty, equality, and human welfare are given repeated attention in such passages as the following: Yea, the Lord hath covenanted this land (America) unto me, and to my children forever, and also all those who should be led out of other countries by the hand of the Lord.... And if it so be that they shall serve him according to the commandments which he hath given, it shall be a land of liberty unto them (From the words of Lehi: II Nephi 1:5, 7). And even I, myself, have labored with mine own hands that I might serve you, and that ye should not be laden with taxes.... If I whom ye call your king, do labor to serve you, then ought not ye to labor to serve one another?" (From words of King Benjamin: Mosiah 2:14, 18). And he also commanded them that the priests whom he had ordained should labor with their own hands.... And the priests were not to depend upon the people for their support.... And again Alma commanded that the people of the church should impart of their substance, every one according to that which he had.... And they did walk uprightly before God, imparting to one another both temporally