[Vol35 | September 1948 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Womans Cannon]

Woman’s Sphere Ramona W. Cannon MARY CROWE and GLADYS BOWEN, business women of Columbus, Ohio, failed in their patriotic effort to raise vegetables for conservation. Finding that the reason was lack of earthworms and compost, they did some research to these items and learned, incidentally, that Cleopatra ordered the activities of the earthworms of her realm guarded as a state secret, "for to their busy burrowings was attributed the fabulous fertility of the Nile Valley," reports Miss Crowe.
THE program of the American Home Economics Association is concentrating on strengthening family life. It recognizes the great need in America for young people to come to marriage with homemaking skills well developed, and with the maturity and the understanding necessary to create a home and a family.
MISS BLANCHE FERRE, teacher at Central School, Brigham City, Utah, won the $1,200 prize for the nation's best elementarygrade teacher, in the radio program contest of the "Quiz Kids." Her former pupil, Scott Crower, 8, who wrote the letter that elected her, said that she came early every morning to help a slow pupil learn to read, and that "she was nice to all of us, not just a few."
UTAH has a number of women in their "gay nineties" and even beyond. The oldest woman of the State is Mrs. Sarah Ann Gibboney of Duchesne, 101 on July 24; Mrs. Lydia Baker, Logan, is 100; Mrs. Ann C. Milne, Salt Lake, will be 100 on October 27; Mrs. Mary S. Sleater and Mrs. Elizabeth Glover, oldest identical twins in the United States are Utah-reared pioneer women, Mrs. Mary Smith, of San Leandro, California, and Mrs. Margaret Lamb, of Farmington, Utah. At 99 they are still sometimes mistaken for each other. Mrs. Augusta Winters Grant, widow of the late President Heber J. Grant, is 92. In the past few months death has come to Mrs. Alice Wright Seaman, of Cedar, 99; Mrs. Mary Louise Folsom Brown, 92; and Mrs. Calletune Callister Hatton, Fillmore, who lacked three days of being 98.
AMERICAN girls received some high school instruction for the first time in 1826, in Boston. But there were too many applicants for the limited budget, so two years later the school was closed, the Mayor declaring: "No city could stand the expense." Twenty-six years later, 1854, the first (genuine) high school for girls was founded in America. That, too, was in Boston—the Girls' High School.