[Vol6 | March 1919 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Guide | Title: LESSON 4 Home Courses Fourth Week in April THE INTELLIGENT O]

LESSON 4. Home Courses. Fourth Week in April. THE INTELLIGENT OBSERVATION OF CHILDREN
======================================================================

LESSON 4. Home Courses. Fourth Week in April. THE INTELLIGENT OBSERVATION OF CHILDREN Practical, trained Child Study has now become a world-wide, organized movement, and this close, skilled, systematic observation of children has resulted in a broader insight and better understanding ofthe essentials of normal, healthy child-life; but the abundant literature published on the subject has so far inspired relatively few parents to give more sympathetic consideration to the details of their children's development, though it has stimulated many teachers to undertake individual study of their pupils. Many efforts have been made to classify children into groups, in order to assist in this analysis of their characteristics, and, if not too sharply defined or closely pressed these are undoubtedly helpful. Such efforts date back to r*mote periods of history, and testify to the longexistent desire to understand some of the leading features which distinguish different phases of childhood. Two accepted classifications by recent authorities are here given as illustrations ofsuch efforts. Classification No. 1 of Child Nature. 1. Normal. a. Unemotional  (Impassive, of mediocre intelligence). b. Emotional. (1) Restrained. (a) Self controlled and progressive, the finest type of human being. (2) Unrestrained. (a)bility.) Gifted, but unstable. (Liable to mental insta- 2. Abnormal. a. Neurotic. b. StoHd. Classification No. 2. (a) Motor  (vivacious and very active) ; (b) Sensory  (sensitive, quiet, and often reserved) (c) Neurotic (a fine temperament if properly trained) (d) Precocious  (unbalanced, calling for special treatment) (e) Backward, or subnormal  (conditions which must not be confused, for they are due to quite different causes.) There are two methods of direct child study: (1) Individual, v/hich records the development of a particular child. (2) Collective;which utilizes an accumulation of data from the examination of a large number of children. Both have their place. Usually, for example, a complexity of reasons exists for a single manifestation, such as pallor, fatigue or irritability, all of which demand consideration if the true cause is to be treated. Hence the assistance of observations based on large numbers. Where experience is limited, the tendency is either to over emphasize or to under estimate one or other possible cause and probably to overlook the real source of the trouble. Does a child look dull or pale? The mother must.seek the answer through a reviev/ of that child's life for several previous days. Pallor may be caused by fatigue, over-excitement, great heat, nervous exhaustion as a result of want of sleep or overwork, fright, chronic malnutrition from defective or deficient diet, anaemia or debility from recent illness. Obviously, the weight to he attached to the pallor and the treatment depend upon its cause. Not slight, hourly variations in appearance, which are natural, must be taken into account, but the duration of the changes and their degree of intensity. How few mothers pause to consider whether volunteered advice as to treatment is applicable to the particular case. "They say" is too seldom reliable; and serious harm may be done by giving drugs of which parents do not know the actual dose, possible effect or suitability to the case. Nature's own methods  rest, warmth, quiet and plenty of water to drink, are now ever more and more employed as effective and safe remedies for most ills. Information derived from reliable child study is based on observations of the general pose, movements and face. Family likeness is chiefly revealed when the face is in repose; when alert and interested, the same face reflects the individual characteristics of its owner; the face also throws light on the nutrition of the individual; though it is well to remember that especially in childhood, the face may be round and plump, yet the body may be thin and ill-nourished. Authorities recommend the study of a face in three zones: (1) The upper third, which includes the hair and brow. Here attention should be given to the general appearance, form and condition of the head. Hair should be bright and vigorous in growth. If dry, dull and scanty, the usual cause is malnutrition. The forehead should be upright and even in contour: The skin, pink, smooth, and free from blemish or furrows. (2) The middle zone includes the eyes, nose, cheeks and ears. Eyes should be bright and their gaze steady. Wandering eyes may characterize highly nervous children, when training will control them; or mentally defective children, when this is not possible, all over-action of any part is as undesirable as lethargy. Red rims, sticky secretion, scanty eyelashes, indicate eye strain and call for immediate attention from an occulist. Most so called "bilious attacks" or sick headaches are due to unsuspected eye strain. Bagginess or dark circles under the eyes are evidences of fatigue, debility or dyspepsia, and call for correct treatment. Apple cheeks are no longer considered a sign of redundant health. Such bright color is caused by want of nerve control of the blood vessels in the skin, and is associated with some nervous instability. Such children need an open air life, plenty of sleep and suitable diet, with no excess of sugar or starch food. The development and form of nose and ears are in their turn indexes to normal or abnormal conditions, which should be understood by all parents. (3) The mouth and chin constitute the third zone. A firm, well closed mouth is a great asset; a slack, loose, open mouth suggests not only adenoid growths, but a slack, loose character. Teeth are specially to be noted; diseased teeth at any age seriously undermine the health and permit the access to the body of serious infections, such as tuberculosis. A student of posture notes if a child stands fair and square, or if the shoulders are round and one lower than the other, which means contracted lungs and constrained activity of the digestive organs. A slight swaying is normal when standing; if noticeable or over emphasized, the child is to some extent unbalanced, physiologically or mentally. Great care should be given to training in a good sitting posture, to ensure free movements of the lungs and digestive organs; all children require to have spines and feet properly supported, or bad habits of posture are sure to result. Many lessons can be learned from observation on hand posture, most of which can be made in the form of play, which renders the child unsuspicious and natural. Suggest raising both arms to shoulder level  are they at the same level, which is the lower, are the hands stretched straight, do the thumbs droop, or are they in the same plane as the fingers? Dropped thumbs, for example, mean fatigue and the child is unfit for any kind of strain that day. Hands and their posture are typical of a neurotic or energetic temperament, or of fright, debility, low mentality or illness. This brief outline will suffice to indicate how broad is the field and how valuable are the results of an Intelligent Study of Children, and at the same time, it should testify to the urgent need for more general attention to so important a subject. REFERENCES. Hygiene of the School Child  Terman, chapts. 7, 8, 11, 12, etc. Individual in the Making  Kirkpatrick, chapts V, VI, etc.  Houghton, Mifflin Co., Chicago, Ill. Child Life  Its Development and Care  Ravenhill  Utah Agricultural College, Logan, Utah. Page 33, etc. QUESTIONS. 1. What do you understand by Child Study? 2. By what methods can this study be carried on? 3. What types of children have you observed? 4. What lessons can we learn from a child's face? 5. How does posture influence health? 6. Give some observations you have made bearing on the subject of this lesson. Z. C.