[Vol56 | April 1969 | Page 241 | Frontispiece | Let Me Be Free Linnie | F. Robinson]
With words like rainswept meadows, Performing truth, unalterable, sublime; Unwritten, save in hearts of heroes; Let me be free to manifest in rhyme! —Linnie F. Robinson Speaking as a nonmember of the Church, I would like to pay tribute to The Relief Society Magazine. It certainly meets the spiritual and inspirational needs of women the world over. May I tell you as a wife and mother I have grown in skills and knowledge. Most important, with a humble heart, I can bear testimony that every issue bears witness of "By their fruits ye shall know them." Marian Pappas, Binghamton, New York I have been a subscriber to The Relief Society Magazine since I can't remember when, and I read it during my growingup years. My mother, a widow with nine children to support, still found enough money to subscribe for the Magazine. I read the Magazine almost through before I put it down. I especially love the poetry. I took nurse training before my marriage, and the lessons on nursing have helped me to review my training so that I can better care for my children. Bertha Rollins, Selma, Alabama Each year I have become more thrilled with the wonderful Relief Society Magazine. In the January 1969 issue, the article on the Giant System in genealogical research is greatly appreciated. I have been privileged to work as an officer and teacher in the Relief Society at various times, as well as in callings in genealogical work. There is a great need for Relief Society sisters to be more mindful of their "living" dead. Too often this work is set aside for a future day which does not arrive. Lucile M. Struiksma, San Diego, California May I express my appreciation for the lovely Relief Society Magazine. The stories and articles, as well as the lessons, are an inspiration to me. I read the entire Magazine from cover to cover. Lucille Tilton, St. David, Arizona I am not a member of your Church, and yet I receive The Relief Society Magazine. It was a gift to me from one of your nicest members— Marilyn Grant. She is a delightful person, warmhearted, devout, honest, and kind. When, out of her kindness, Marilyn made me a present of a subscription, I found the Magazine to represent much the same values and qualities my friend has. As I read the Magazine and put it away, it refuses to remain away. I find myself reflecting on some of its lessons and modifying my behavior along some of its tenets. My dear friend is away now as she has been for two years and will be for two more— for her husband's work has taken the family to Holland. However, each month when I receive my Magazine, it is almost as if Marilyn had returned for a visit. Thank you for this publication. Carolyn Orr, Campbell, California It is hard to find a Magazine with the good in it that The Relief Society Magazine has. I belong to the Lutheran Church, but am happy to read material of such high quality, and I will pass the Magazine along to be read by others. Miss Alice Tribhan), Galesburg, Illinois I am one of your long-time readers, as well as a member of Relief Society for more than fifty years. I enjoy the Magazine in my leisure hours, which are many now. I think the Magazine does a great service for women, and I send wishes for many more years of service. Magdalene C.

Stephens, Salt Lake City, Utah I greatly enjoyed the story in the February Magazine "A Day for Diddle Daddling," by Alice Morrey Bailey. There is naturalness and reality in this story and effective representation of characters. Love to you, Alice, and all your "diddle-daddling" friends. Rosa Lee Lloyd, Salt Lake City, Utah The Relief Society Magazine volume 56 April 1969 Number 4 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Hope and Encouragement for CANCER CURE Elder Spencer W. Kimball of the Council of the Twelve [Address Delivered at a meeting of the Utah Division of the American Cancer Society, April 13, 1968] mw Tonight, we meet to unite our forces and our interests in raising funds with which to combat the destructive forces which each year cause such monumental havoc in loss of life, suffering, pain, and misery. Recently in an issue of the Reader's Digest in the advertisement section appeared the following: AGAR MT BABA BABLlEASLGBARA A ar usa yy @ a A a O/\e\8'8 fo yy eva aveVeVe ese > SPEAKING OF THE BROAD SPECTRUM—ANTIBIOTICS... Those universal germ killers made possible the practical control of more than 100 varieties of infections including those responsible for: CHOLERA CERTAIN PNEUMONIAS WHOOPING COUGH ROCKY MOUNTAIN FEVER DEADLY PARROT FEVER SPOTTED FEVER TYPHOID FEVER AS WELL AS TYPHUS* The article said the span of man's life had been extended fifteen years since 1900. As I read this, I was almost overwhelmed with gratitude to the researchers who discovered these precious medicines which made possible the cure of these dread diseases, and to the many people who contributed funds for such rewarding research. There came rushing back through my memory a sixty-one year old picture of anguish, terror, fear, hopelessness. There we were, eight of our mother's "Advertisement, Reader's Digest, February 1968, Reprinted by permission of the Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association. 244 eleven, in our parents' bedroom. Our mother was dead. Our father was away. Our older brother Gordon sat in the chair holding our littlest sister while she died, with all of us youngsters around the chair frightened and praying and weeping. The doctor was miles away. His horse and buggy could not possibly have brought him there soon enough, and what could he do if he arrived? It seemed to be a combination of diphtheria and membraneous croup, and little Poche was literally choking to death. In terror, we watched the little body fight valiantly for air and life, then suddenly relax completely. The hard-fought battle was over. She had lost. Our older brother seemed to be reluctant to admit it was over. He held her for awhile, hoping hopelessly. And while we children convulsively held to each other in this traumatic experience, he tenderly carried the little lifeless body to the bed and covered it with a sheet, and there welled up in our hearts an almost uncontrollable anguish and a dark void and deep emptiness. As we tried vainly to comfort each other, we had no idea that some day in our own time, nv more little two-year-olds would die from these afflictions, but that intelligent, determined men of science would find the preventative and cure. And, then, my memory took me back over half a century when I was a teenager. One day all the symptoms of typhoid fever enveloped me, and a deep dizziness sent me to the bed holding to the sides of it with both hands. I knew in those pioneer days in a Hope and Encouragement for Cancer Cure new world nearly every family had its share of typhoid. Contaminated water, littlesanitation, no hospitals, nor nurses, nor preventative medicine, those loving parents just lived on and hoped. Double and triple funerals were common, even in this small country town. The cemetery expanded unmercifully fast. I had never dreamed that I, too, would be its victim. My country doctor was devoted and attentive, but he had few facilities and possibly was limited in knowledge. Well do I remember the long starvation period, and the pain, agonies, and distresses of those many weeks which would seemingly never end. But, I was one of the fortunate ones—I lived. And as I lay helpless and near hopeless in my agonies, little did I dream that some day I would have a direct posterity of more than thirty-one souls, and not one of them would ever have typhoid fever—thanks to the diligent, faithful researchers and those who helped finance the studies. My memory again took me back a half century, when as - young newlyweds, we were to be plagued with the dread disease of smallpox. There was an epidemic in the little town—everybody was exposed—many were to suffer as did I, and some were to lose their lives to this merciless monster killer. I had the kindest, sweetest nurse in the world and through her tender care, the fever finally subsided, the distress phased out, and even the pox marks cleared up. As we sat waiting and suffering and watching day after day, little did we know then that we 

245 April 1969

 would some day travel the world around into far corners of numerous countries where this disease still ravages communities, and that we would never be inconvenienced nor suffer again from this killer—smallpox. The vaccination operation is simple and takes but a minute, and there is real protection, thanks again to the noble, relentless medical searchers for cures. And then memory took me back again to the time when our youngest became paralyzed with the dreaded infantile paralysis which was so rampant in the thirties. The family doctor did not recognize the symptoms, and our little three-year-old lay for days as we suffered with him. Finally, impatiently, we took little Eddie to another doctor who, on the second visit, got out his big book and compared the symptoms with the little fellow's aches and pains and fevers, and said: "You know, I am afraid this is poliomyelitis." This had always been a torture word to us. Eddie's granduncle had been on_ crutches nearly his whole life. Never had he been able to use one of his legs. And I had _ frequently walked to school in my childhood days with William, a boy a little older than myself. I assume his crippled body was the result of this torturing malady. With a cane, he struggled his way the two blocks to school. How I ached for him when I had such strong straight legs, and he, with bent and crippled ones, gave such great exertion to cover the distance. He spent his later years in a wheel chair. With all this in mind, the prospect of our 246 little son being a polio victim was devastating. In only hours, we were traveling through the night across the deserts of Arizona and California to take him to recognized specialists. Our little one was taken from our arms, placed on a hospital truck, and whisked away to a fourth-story quarantine area. The suffering of our little fellow, his loneliness, his mother's telling him stories by the hour through the crack in the door, our huddling down under his window and agonizing as he cried in his fear and loneliness, is another story, as is also the many years of commuting to Los Angeles, the numerous operations, the therapy by his devoted mother, the metal braces from neck to toe, the casts, and the crutches, the canes—all this cannot be told when time is now so crowded. There were the dime marches, the crusades for funds, the amassing of scientists and the accelerating of research. Among the numerous other victims of polio at that time was Franklin D. Roosevelt who later became the President of the United States. As we agonized through those years and hoped and _ prayed, little did we dream that vaccines would be discovered which would largely eradicate this menace of polio from the torture chambers, and again, though it was late for us, we thanked the Lord and the scientists and the contributors for their untiring zeal and contributions to rid the world of this dread enemy _ which maimed and crippled so many. And then, cancer came into the family. At this time, there was no certain prevention nor cure. We saw my mother-in-law fade away to her death. We saw our stepmother in her mortal agonies, finally to pass away while still in middle life. Then, we saw my _ younger sister, mother of seven children, fight for her life through endless months. All assistance was brought to save her, but the dread _ killer literally ate away much of her face. This experience was hardly over and its sweet victim buried, when the killer attacked me. It was to hit me in one of my most vulnerable spots. All my work depended on a voice. What would life be without a voice—especially in my work! I remembered in the scripture Where Joel, the prophet, said ""Multitudes, multitudes in the valley of decision: for the day of the Lord is near in the valley of decision."' To die early or to survive a living death without a voice with which to do my sacred work! [I Hope and Encouragement for Cancer Cure was near lost in my own valley of decision. My faithful local specialist prevailed upon the New York Specialist to remove only the actually diseased tissue, and a part of one vocal cord was spared the knife. And thanks to a great throat specialist and his advisers, and the kind and loving grace of my Lord through the numerous prayers of the multitudes of my friends, I speak. My gratitude has no bounds. I know of many who have not been so fortunate. And, I look forward to the day when the fiend cancer takes its place in the cemetery of diseases, along with the other ones already controlled. To this end, we meet tonight to give hope, encouragement with funds and cheers and confidence to those who will never cease their relentless efforts til] cancer is conquered. And, I pray that this may soon be the great blessing of all people in this, our precious global village, in the cause of his Holy Name. Amen. THANKFULNESS There are so many things I'm thankful for: The brightness of the early morning climb Of sun when day begins, and brighter still The west when sunset heralds evening time. The warmth and comfort of my little house, And all the friends who often stop to cheer What otherwise might be a lonely hour; And then my far-off family most dear. For length of years, and talent lent to serve In bringing bits of Joy to humankind: For health and stren My calm assurance, gth all through the many years, and my peace of mind.