[Vol6 | September 1919 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons - Lesson 4 Home Courses - Planning Meals for t]

Guide Lessons - Lesson 4: Home Courses - Planning Meals for the Family
======================================================================

LESSON 4. Home Courses. Fourth Week in October. PLANNING MEALS FOR THE FAMILY In our present day manner of living, in the family group, a large share of the proper feeding of the race and therefore of the development and maintenance of physically strong men and women, is a problem of the home, more particularly a big problem for the housewife who is responsible for the meals set before the family. This big problem is moreover a difficult one, first, because there is such a confusing abundance, a bewildering maze of food materials from which must be chosen just those articles that are best adapted to the needs of the several members of the family; second, because appetite alone is not a dependable guide in the matter of eating. That the appetite cannot be trusted alone, is evidenced by the many examples not only of indulgence in alcoholic beverages, but also in food excesses such as of sugar or meat, and in the frequent cases of individuals liking too small a number of food articles or disliking those that should be staples. Yet the problem of good meals for the family must be solved. Now, the greater assurance that the family meals will meet the needs of the individual members, follows only when the housewife keeps constantly in mind, first, what food is, and second, that the primary function of food is to meet the body needs rather than to satisfy cultivated tastes. It is only under such circumstances that she can be sure that at least each day's food and if possible each meal supplies the materials necessary to meet these three constant needs of the body, viz., first, energy; second, tissue building material; third, regulation of body processes. The most generally accepted definition of food is: "Food is anything which when taken into the body will yield energy, or build tissue, or regulate body processes." Foods as we eat them ? apples, milk, eggs, meat etc., are made up of certain substances we call "nutrients." In all the great variety of foods we eat there are only six of these so-called "nutrients." By name these nutrients are: carbohydrates, that is all forms of starches and sugars; protein; fat; water; minerals; and vitamins. Minerals are sometimes called ash because they are left unconsumed when foods are burned. Eight minerals are needed in the body; these are ? iron, sulphur, phosphorus, calcium or lime, sodium, chloride, magnesium, potassium. Vitamins have been discovered in food only in the last few years and we know very little about them other than that they are necessary for life and growth of the young and for the health of the adult person as well as of the child. It is just as desirable and important that the woman who plans meals for herself or others become familiar with these nutrients and their uses in the human body, as it is that the seamstress know what hems, gathers, belts, plackets, seams, are in a garment and what purposes they serve. Group 1? Foods Good for Protein. Cheese, cream or cottage; Lean meat of all kinds, beef, pork, fish, poultry mutton; Milk, whole, skim and buttermilk; Eggs; Legumes, peas, beans of all kinds, lentils, peanuts, soybeans; Cereals (give a moderate amount) Group 2? Foods Good for Fat. Olive oil; Mazola, and other salad oils; Cooking fats, as lard, crisco, etc. Butter and oleomargarine; Fat meats; Egg-yolk; Nuts, most kinds; Group 3 ? Foods Good for Carbohydrates. (a) Starches Cereals, wheat, corn, oats, rice, rye, barley, buckwheat; and all preparations made from cereals, as flours, meals, grits, starches, macaroni, spaghetti, vermicelli, crackers, breakfast foods, bread, cakes, cookies, noodles, Starchy vegetables, as potatoes, sweet potatoes, squash, pumpkin, carrots, parsnips; Bananas, Ripe beans of all kinds, lentils, and peanuts. (b) Sugars Granulated, brown, loaf, or powdered sugar; Honey; Molasses, syrups of all kinds; Fruits canned, dried, jams, jellies, and fruit butters; Milk. Group 4? Foods Good for Minerals. Milk; Egg-yolk; All vegetables and fruits, especially spinach, lettuce, carrots, peas, cabbage, celery, apples, oranges, berries, pineapple, grapes; Bran of cereals, for example, in graham flour, rolled oats, cracked hominy, bran biscuit or pudding. Group 5 ? Foods Good for Vitamins. (a) Milk, and milk products, especially butter, cream, and whole milk cheese; Meat (a small amount) ; Eggs; Greens of all kinds; (b) Vegetables of all kinds; Fruits all kinds; Note. ? The vitamins found in foods under (a) occur in a smaller number of foods than in case of (b), so more care must be taken that foods in the (a) part of Group 5 are used sufficiently. Notice that milk is placed in each of the five groups. Eggs are at once an excellent source of protein, fat, minerals, and vitamins, if the whole egg or the yolk alone be used. Vegetables and fruits are valuable for minerals, carbohydrates and vitamins. Cereals furnish an abundance of carbohydrates in the form of starch, a moderate amount of protein, and if the bran is contained in the cereal preparation, minerals are also supplied. Since it requires all six of the nutrients to meet the three body needs, it is imperative that each day's meals include at least one representative from each of the above five groups, as well as water. Water should be used freely, adults taking about three quarts in twenty-four hours. It may be drunk at meals as well as between meals if it is not taken to soften the food. To take water into the mouth while food is in it, is at once bad physiology and bad manners. In the adult's diet special thought must be given to the use of fresh fruits and vegetables and top milk. No day should be allowed to pass without vegetables and fruits having been served. One pint of milk for each adult per day is a good allowance. If fresh milk cannot be procured then condensed or powdered milk is a desirable substitute for the fresh product. Some people cannot take milk, unless in cooked form. *** ***** That it is imperative to use in each day's meals, and in each meal if possible at least one representative of each group of foods as given above, is shown by an examination of the three body needs, and noting the nutrients required in each case. (Note. ? T means 1 level tablespoon; c means 1 level cup of ? pint size; t means teaspoon.) Sugar, 2 T; Corn starch, 3 T; White bread, 1 slice, size ? inch X 3? in. x 3? in. ; Cornflakes, 1? c; Grapenuts, 3 T; Shredded wheat, 1 biscuit; Rice, 2 T raw, ? c cooked; Cream of wheat, 2? T raw, ? c cooked; Rolled oats, 3? T raw, ? c cooked; Potato, 1 medium; Whole milk, ? c; Skim milk, 1 c: Cauliflower, 1 small head; Spinach, 14 ounces or ? gal. raw, Lima beans, 2? T cooked; Peanuts, 12 or 16 kernels; Almonds, 12 kernels; Apple, 1 large; Banana, 1 medium; Orange, 1 large; Raisins, 1? T, seeded; Dates without stones, 5 to 7; Whole egg, medium 1?; Cheese, 1 cu. inch; Butter, 1 T Scientific experiment has also worked out with considerable accuracy the number of calories required by persons of different ages as well as of adults doing muscular work of different degrees of severity. The following tables* summarize the generally accepted figures: Age Calories per Lb. Calories per Day Under 1 year 45 1 to 2 years 45 to 40 1000 to 1200 2 to 5 years 40 to 36 1200 to 1500 6 to 9 years 36 to 32 1400 to 2000 10 to 13 years 34 to 27 1800 to 2400 for girls 2300 to 3000 for boys 14 to 17 years 30 to 22 2200 to 2600 for girls 2800 to 4000 for boys Requirements for the man of average size (weighing about 150 lbs.), doing a moderate amount of work (for example a carpenter's work), have been calculated as follows:* Eight hours of sleep at 65 calories 520 calories Two hours' light exercise (walking) at 170 calories 340 " Eight hours' carpenter's work at 240 calories 1,920 " Six hours' sitting at rest at 100 calories 600 " Total food requirement for the day 3,380 calories one-third we may safely count on coming from the bread, cereals, and vegetables that we should have in this daily diet. The regulation of body processes is effected together by water, minerals and vitamins. All these nutrients must be constantly present in proper amounts if the heart is to beat as it should, the food be properly digested, absorbed and used in the body, the waste materials excreted, the breathing go on as it should, and all parts of the body work together in harmony. We "Chemistry of Food and Nutrition" (page 186), by Dr. H. C. Sherman. attempt to suggest amounts of these regulating nutrients only in the case of the water, as has been said about three quarts for a grown person per day. But we must take care that each day's food contains several articles that will furnish vitamins and minerals. Suggestions for planning adequate meals for the family may be made more concrete by the following menus: QUESTIONS TO ACCOMPANY LESSONS ON "PLANNING FOR THE FAMILY." Questions for Lesson One. 1. What are the three advantages of planning meals? 2. What are nutrients? How many are there? Name them. 3. What are the body's needs that are met by food? 4. What is the special importance of vitamins? What foods furnish vitamins? 5. What nutrients are supplied by a salad of apples, raisins and nuts, with a dressing of whipped cream? 6. What nutrients will be furnished by bread pudding, using bread, sugar, egg, milk and flavoring in its making? Questions for Lesson Two. 1. How many of the nutrients should be in each day's meals? Why? 2. What determines the amount of energy-yielding foods which a grown person needs? 3 Name six good food sources of energy. To what nutrient does each owe this power to yield energy?
4. Name six foods that will have a good share in the building of body tissues and tell what nutrient in each is good for tissue building.
5. Name six foods that will have a good share in regulating body processes and tell why each helps.
*Children's menu planned by students in special diets class, U. A. C.