PORTRAIT AND MESSAGE OF COL. THEODORE ROOSEVELT. Vol. V.                           FEBRUARY, 1918.                           No. 2

Ex-President Roosevelt Congratulates American Mothers.

The Magazine presents the latest picture of the greatest soldier, and one of the greatest if not the greatest American, living or dead, with the congratulations which he sends to the Unusual Mothers of the West and of this Church. Copies of this Magazine were sent to Col. Roosevelt and we are proud and sure that our readers will share our pride and pleasure in his return message. Col. Roosevelt is not only greatly respected and admired in the West for his wisdom, his statesmanship, his courage and his supreme loyalty; he is as well loved for his humaneness and deep spiritual understanding of the common people's common problems. Many know and feel that Col. Roosevelt's generous toleration, his refusal to take offense at studied efforts to humiliate him, his unswerving loyalty to the flag, his consistent patriotism have done more to place the masses of the people in line with the war policies of this government than any other single factor. He still possesses the power to do more good, or more evil, to lead more people in right or wrong political paths than any other man in this nation. His star has not set, nor  we may hope  has it yet reached its zenith.

And now we continue with the presentation of our Unusual Mothers, women who have borne the heat and the burden of the day, and whose descendants are worthy representatives of the sturdy pioneer stock from which they sprang.

SARIAH S. MCDONALD
Of Wasatch Stake.
MOTHER OF TWENTY CHILDREN.

Sariah Shirts McDonald was born in St. Louis, Mo., Dec. 27, 1838, and was married to William McDonald, Jan. 1, 1854, when she was between fifteen and sixteen years of age, at Cedar

City, Iron County, Utah. She had four children when they moved to Heber City, and gave birth to sixteen more after her removal there, raised eleven to man and womanhood and buried nine in childhood. She worked hard until she was 72 years old. Her health is fair at present. She is a good Latter-day Saint, but doesn't attend meetings much on account of poor hearing. She always donated liberally whenever asked to help in a good cause; loves to talk on the gospel and passing events. She does her own

SARIAH S. MCDONALD.

sewing without glasses at the age of 79 years, has raised her sister from an infant after the death of her mother until she herself was seventeen years old when she was married to William McDonald as a plural wife. May her remaining days be filled with the afterglow of her full and generous experiences, and when she passes beyond may the change come as sleep to a babe upon its mother's breast.

JULIET D. BOHNE.
Of Cardston Stake.
MOTHER OF SEVENTEEN CHILDREN.

Mrs. Juliet Day Bohne was born Oct. 18, 1848, at Kanesville, Pottawattamie, Illinois. She was baptized in 1864.

Her parents came to Salt Lake, in the year 1852, and settled later in Springville. Soon after they moved to Mt. Pleasant where she met and married H. M. Bohne, in 1866, at the age of sixteen, where she lived till she moved to Canada. She buried six of her first eight children there, the first ones being twins. She also buried another child after their arrival in Canada.

MRS. JULIET D. BOHNE.

The oldest child if living would have been fifty years old and their youngest twenty-six. They celebrated their fiftieth wedding anniversary March 25, 1916. She was a brave and noble spirit and knew no fear. She died on January 28, 1916, at the age of 68, at Aetna, Alberta, Canada. She was the mother of seventeen children.

MRS. AMANDA WILLIAMS CLARK,
Of Panguitch Stake.
MOTHER OF SIXTEEN CHILDREN.

Amanda Williams Clark, the mother of sixteen children, was born Nov. 24, 1835, at Lake Cork, Logan county, Illinois. She married Riley Garner Clark, March 20, 1850, at Provo, Utah. After twenty-five years and nine months he died leaving to her the sole care and support of this large family. She has resided at Panguitch, Utah, for forty-six years, becoming a mem-

ber of the Relief Society at the age of sixteen, and serving for twelve years as a teacher. All her life she has been very active and even now, at the age of eighty-one, she keeps up her own home attending to all the domestic duties herself, besides helping at times members of her family. She will always be remembered throughout the state by her many friends for her generosity, charity and kindness. Every year she travels in various parts of the states of Utah and Idaho visiting with her children. Following are their names with dates of birth: Riley Garner, Feb. 22, 1851; Sarah Jane, Jan. 28, 1852; Mary Elizabeth, March 3, 1854; Amanda, Oct. 17, 1855; Samuel, Feb. 7, 1857; Mary Ann, June 6, 1858; Ellen, Feb. 13, 1860; Joseph W., Feb. 14, 1862; Diantha, Dec. 14, 1863; Delethine Alice, July 10, 1865; Ada, Aug. 30, 1867; Guy Willison, Nov. 6, 1870; Blanche, Sept. 28, 1872; James Leland, Aug. 1, 1874; Austin, March 2, 1876.

AMANDA WILLIAMS CLARK.

EMMA HARDCASTLE JENKINS,
Of Cassia Stake.
MOTHER OF SIXTEEN CHILDREN.

Emma Hardcastle Jenkins was born in Yorkshire, June 28, 1853. She came to Utah with her parents, in 1865, by ox team. She was married to Ralph Jenkins May, 1869, and is the mother of sixteen children, thirteen now living.