	   BY HELEN BAR WHITNEY.
				____

	The evening of the 12th it clouded up and
rained some during the night.  Just at dusk
came father, Bro. Jedediah Grant, and their
families with others of the camp, with the loud
ge-ha's of teamsters and yells of herdsmen,
driving, unyoking and taking off their teams
and other like noises which brought confusion,
when the charm was broken, and lo, my bliss
had departed.  Next day we had rain and sun-
shine alternately through the day till evening,
when a tremendous cold rain storm came on
and lasted a good part of the night.  Bro.
Grant's tent was blown down in the gale.  Pres-
ident B. Young and company had passed us
that day.  Some of father's men who had been
out trading reached  camp that morning, bring-
ing 10 bushels of meal and 1,000 weight of bacon,
which these pioneers had earned.  Father had
purchased two wagons, and before starting from
Garden Grove our small one was exchanged
for a larger one, and this day they had some
sea biscuits taken out and articles of greater
weight put in to equalize the loads, making the
whole load about 1148 pounds, also another
yoke of oxen was added.  The same day Hor-
ace wrote:  "I fished a little again to-day, caught
a large cat-fish and two or three small ones
called pout."  According to his journal we
started Friday, 15th, and though the weather
was fair found the roads somewhat muddy; af-
ter travelling about five miles we met Bro.
James Smithers and the rest of the band re-
turning from their trading expedition, as also
Bishop Miller, with some of his company, who
had also been out trading—went on about six
miles further and encamped—the sun about an
hour high—on the edge of a ravine	*	*
having made eleven miles to-day.  Bro. Kim-
ball styles it the cream of all the encampments
we have hitherto had, in consequence of the
beautiful "rolling" prairie and the rich verdure
for our cattle that abounds in such plenty
around us.  Saw what is called the "Oregon
trail" to-day.	*	*	Dr. Rich-
ards is encamped with us to-night."
	The next day, according to the record, we
travelled about eleven miles and encamped on
the prairie on a stream which father named
"Crooked Creek."  The morning of the 17th
was cloudy and rained a little.  We travelled
about two and a half miles and found Presi-
dent Youug encamped on a small creek in a
valley. We went on a little way and pitched
our tents on the top of a hill, when father,
Brigham Young, Amasa Lyman, George A.
Smith and one or two others went ahead on
horse back to survey the road, and finding a
good place to camp about three miles ahead,
returned and concluded to go on for fear it
might rain.  We made about five miles that
day.  Bishop Whitney and family overtook us
at the place where we last stopped, and we were
rejoiced to see them.  He had lost some of his
horses and been detained at Garden Grove.
We had felt considerably worried about Moth-
er Whitney's health in consequence of her arm
which was gradually perishing away, and it
pained her so that it affected her whole system,
but we found her getting better and in pretty
good spirits, and also Bro. Joseph C. Kings-
bury, who had been quite sick.  Sister E. B.
Whitney (the present Editor of the Expo-
nent) was the faithful nurse and companion
of Mother Whitney in those troublous times,
and continued to be like a loving daughter to
her until she was laid in her last resting place.
Bro. Solomon Hancock came up the same day
bringing news that there were 200 tents pitched
at Sugar Creek of those that had crossed the
river since our departure.  They were four
weeks from Nauvoo.  Monday morning, 18th,
the brethren had to build a bridge before start-
ing and had to stop and build another in the
afternoon.  We travelled ten miles and en-
camped at evening in a grove on the brow of a
hill—a small bottom intervening between us
and the middle fork of the Grand River, which
abounded in fish, such as sun-fish and cat-fish.
Here we were to remain some time and make
another farm for the saints that were to follow
us.  This was called Mt. Pisgah.
	Horace wrote: "Tuesday, 19th.  This morn-
ing Bro. Wm. King and myself with six yoke
of oxen and one wagon started back to Garden
Grove, to bring up some provisions which we
expected to get of Bro. Yearsley.  Met Lyman
Whitney and Wm. Pitt; after going about ten
miles met Bro. Jacob Hutchison, who was in
search of his horse.  Lyman did not find his,
but went on without him; got to the farm Wed-
nesday about noon.  Bro. Yearsley not at
home—waited for him till Friday, when we
started back—the creeks all high, and some
scarcely fordable—reached home on Monday
evening, accompanied Bro. Markham, Cahoon
and several others—brought back the worth of
President Young's things in his wagon and our
own.	*	*	While we were gone
met a great number of emigrants just from
Nauvoo—some three weeks from there	*	*
in fact they are coming daily as fast as they
can get ready.  Bro. Kimball talks of build-
ing three houses here and Brigham two."
	While they were absent two Indians came
to our camp belonging to the Pottawatomie
tribe, who said they had lost their horses, one
of which had been caught by one of the com-
pany a few days previous—they were glad to
recognize the horse.  They had been sent as
messengers to their station on the west fork,
about fifty miles hence, to make arrangements
about paying for the cultivation of the land—
they returned, bringing word that the chief
himself would come to us and settle the terms
thereof.  Also learned through them that Ly-
man Wight was about one hundred miles
from there, but could not tell the direction.
Here Bishop Whitney's driver (Jacob Frazier)
was very sick, which Horace mentions—also
speaks of two deaths in Bishop Miller's com-
pany—Bro. Wm. Edwards' and Bro. Turley's
child.  He says, "Bro. Wm. Huntington has
been appointed president over those who re-
main here, assisted by Ezra T. Benson and
Charles C. Rich.	*	*	Bro.
Holman was the first man to put a plough into
the ground here, notwithstanding he does not
intend to remain.  Bro. John Taylor has just
returned from Nauvoo—he says that has got
to be a wicked place.  He makes the calcula-
tion that there are about six hundred wagons
on the way between here and Nauvoo—there
are all sorts of reports afloat there respecting
us, such as that we have been mobbed, etc."
	"Tuesday, 26th.  Tolerable fair to-day, built
a yard this after-noon to put our cattle in
nights.  Bro. Wm. Clayton came up this even-
ing—Mother Whitney's arm is getting better;
she has bound on it the skin of a rattlesnake
Bro. George Herring, a Mohawk Indian, ar-
rived here to-day, he having been sent for,
some time since, by the brethren.  He came
from Council Bluffs—says there are a number
of the brethren of Emmet's company waiting
for us at the state line, that some had taken''
jobs of work near a settlement of the Potta-
wattamie Indians, about two thousand in num-
ber; that the Indian agents, by the orders of
the governor of Missouri, are enjoined not to
let any whites stop among them, but more es-
pecially to prohibit the "Mormons" from doing
so, also that they, the Mormons, should not be
suffered to settle this side of the Rocky Moun-
tains.  Bro. Herring also told us that the
United States had declared war against Mexico.
We hail all such things as happy events, be-
cause when the Gentiles are embroiled among
themselves they have less leisure to persecute
the Saints of God."
	This may be considered, by some, an unkind
feeling, but note the orders received by those
agents concerning us, and the unnatural treat-
ment we had received from the hands of our
government, which should have protected and
succored us, but instead had allowed us to be
persecuted, harassed and driven from state to
state, and our men to be imprisoned and many
slain, and also innocent women and children
murdered in cold blood, and a whole people to
be exiled and driven into an almost unknown
wilderness, without the least inquiry or under-
standing of the facts concerning us, and all the
suffering that we were daily enduring in con-
sequence, could they realize this, and how sore-
ly we felt it, and then take it home to them-
selves, they would wonder at our patience, and
that we did not join handswith the poor In-
dians, who would have been too glad—or with
the Mexicans to fight against the nation, who
had driven us out from their midst, hoping as
they did and expecting that we would perish or
be scattered to the four winds, regardless of
our feelings and rights, and had it not been
that our people were true Christians we would
long since have followed our natural instinct,
as others have done, who, though professing so
much more enlightenment, have shown how
much they were lacking in that same spirit of
Christianity, which has ever governed and con-
trolled the Latter-day Saints, of whose inner
lives and faith they know nothing until they are
willing to become, as Jesus said, "Like  little chil-
dren, for of such is the Kingdom of Heaven."
	"Wednesday, 27th," Horace wrote, "on ris-
ing this morning found it raining.		*	*
To-day father presented me with a pistol.	*
Brigham, Heber, father and some others went
on horse back to find a suitable place for cross-
ing the river when they shall start—they re-
turned, having found a place where they in-
tend to build a bridge."
	"Thursday, 28th.  Somewhat cloudy, but no
rain.  One of Bro. Kimball's horses, Prince,
on being found and brought up from the
prairie this morning was discovered to be bit-
ten by a snake.  I went fishing, and found
Clayton at it also; caught quite a number of
sun-fish and pont, etc. * * The brethren here
are busily engaged, some ploughing and putting
corn into the ground, others building fences
and houses, making ploughs and ox yokes, etc.,
while the rest are herding the cattle." * * *
	"Friday, 29th.  Weather pleasant—the
brethren have nearly completed the bridge;
Bro. Brigham chastened the people last Sun-
day at meeting because a great many manifest-
ed a disposition to tie the hands of the Twelve,
as it were, neglecting to put in crops here and
wanting to go ahead, when they have not the
means to do so.  Bro. Brigham gave them the
choice of two things to do; either to fit them-
selves out and go ahead and leave the Twelve
here, or by using their utmost exertion fit out
the Twelve and let them go into the wilderness
and establish the Kingdom.  Bro. Kimball
said if the people chose to have the Twelve
stay here, they, the Twelve, would go into the
foreign countries and preach the Gospel and
raise up a body of people who would be will-
ing to abide by counsel and act as becomes the
Saints of God.			(To be Continued.)


