SCRIPTURAL TESTIMONY.

	"And they asked Him, saying, Master, but
when shall these things be? and what sign will
there be when these things shall come to pass?
St. Luke, xxi chapter: 7th verse."
10th verse, "Then said He unto them:
nation shall rise against nation, and kingdom
against kingdom."
	11th verse. "And great earthquakes shall
be in divers places, and famines and pestil-
ences: and fearful sights and great signs shall 
there be from heaven, St. Mathew, xxvi
chapter.
	31st verse. "And He shall send His angels
with a great sound of a trumpet, and they shall
gather together His elect from the four winds,
from one end of heaven to the other."
	Now it seems by this language in  Holy Writ
that God's people would be gathered out from
all parts of the earth, to prepare themselves
for His  commandments, they were a dis-
tinct people from all others. The ancients
lived in this capacity for many generations.
The children of Israel did not mix with other
people not acknowledged by God as keeping
His laws. He gave them the mark of circum-
cision, that they might be distinguished from
all others, and to this day their tradition clings
closely to them. Yet many times they were
scattered abroad and taken captive by their
enemies, but this was on account of their great
rebellion. They turned away from the true
and living God to worship idols; but when they
turneda way from their sins He forgave them,
and they were a blest people, and lived within
His fold and the Lord was their Shepherd.
But when the good Shepherd came on the
earth and began to call His sheep and gather
them up they would not, neither would they
hear His voice, and He said unto them, St.
Mathew, xxiii chapter, 37th verse, "O, Jerusa-
lem, Jerusalem! thou that killest the prophets,
and stonest them which are sent unto thee, how
often would I have gathered your children to-
gether, even as a hen gathereth her chickens
under her wings, and ye would not."
	The gathering of the people of God has been
understood by them in all ages of the world.
John the Revelator alluded to it in the xviii
chapter, 4th verse. "And I heard another
voice from heaven, saying; come out of her my
people, that ye be not partakers of her sins,
and that ye receive not of her plagues."
	The Savior compared His people to sheep.
He said, "The sheep hear my voice, and the
voice of a stranger they will not follow." This
is a true semblance. The Shepherd has His
sheep within the fold, and the good Shepherd
says,"He leadeth them forth to pleasant pas-
tures."
	The Savior calls the Nephites His other
sheep and it is referred to by Himself in the
x chapter, 16th verse of St. John. "And other
sheep I have which are not of this fold: them,
also must I bring, and they shall hear my
voice, and there shall be one fold and one
Shepherd."
	Now read the Book of Mormon, 3d Nephi, (512
page), 16th and 17th verses. "This much did
the Father command me that I should tell un-
to them. That other sheep I have which are
not of this fold; them, also, must I bring, and
they shall hear my voice, and there shall be
one fold and one Shepherd.
	19th verse. "But verily I say unto you,
that the Father hath commanded me, and I tell
it unto you, that you were separated from
among their's because of their iniquity; there-
fore, it is because of their iniquity that they
know not of you"
	Also those who were led away by the hand
of the Lord into the north country, the same
as those who came to the continent they are
spokenof in the xvi chapter. Speaking of the
other tribes He says: But I have recieved a 
commandment of the Father that I shall go
unto them and that they shall hear my voice,
and shall be numbered among my sheep, that
there may be one fold and one Shepherd; there-
fore I go to show myself unto them."
	With regard to the twelve tribes in their
scattered condition the world is entirely igno-
rant; but the history written of them  in the
Book of Mormon gives us a knowledge of
them, and many other things, which the world
will remain in ignorance of unless they read
its pages and judge for themselves. I advise
everyone to read it; if you have not the book
purchase one and read it through. It is a true
history--this I bear my testimony to. I have
read its pages with great interest and delight,
knowing that it gives an account of the ed
man's origin, before his skin became black, and
after. It is a wonderful book, and the lineage
of its people kept so perfectly from generation
to generation, and also the time to mark events
so minutely kept, makes it the most interest-
ing book of the age. No one can read its pages
without being forcibly convinced of its merit.
Its preservation for so many centuries hid up
in the earth by its last writer, to come forth by
his hand to Joseph Smith to enlighten a dark
and benighted world; and he, Joseph Smith,
being blessed with the gift of translation, made
its pages clear as the noon-day sun, that all
who read may understand and have joy in its
remarkable record. Many would recieve a 
greater light if they would not neglect to read
its inspired pages.
	"Precious treasure, thou art mine,"
	Precious book thou art divine--
	For me to read and meditate,
	And all its joys to contemplate.

	Now it is great folly for men to lose their
lives exploring for the lost tribes: they are not
lost to their Heavenly Father, and in His own
due time He will cause the mountains of ice to
melt down at their presence, and He will lead
them back by His power, the same as He led
them away, for He hath a care and an eye
to all the workmanship of His hands. Our
opponents say, "Why do you do so and so?
Why do not you do as we tell you to? Re-
nounce your religion; take no notice of God's 
word; believe not in revelation, neither in the
gathering; stay where you are, and be one with
us and obey the law of the land." The law
or the new civilization, allows  houses of ill
fame. The Ten Commandments say, "Commit
not adultery." The law, as it is defined for us,
says, separate husband and wife; the Scripture
says, "What God has joined together let no
man put asunder," The law of Senator Ed-
munds, which has been declared constitutional,


takes away the right of franchise without
judge or jury, and the Bible says, “He that
judgeth a matter without hearing it is a fool.”
I have no privilege to vote, and I have broken
no law, my fore-fathers and fore-mothers were
among the first to settle America, and my
father fought in the war of 1812. I have an
independent mind because I was born in a 
land of freedom, and my rights are to believe
in the truth. MARY ANN M. PRATT.
Salt Lake City, Jan. 29th, 1884.


