MANTI ITEMS.

	At the commencement of another cycle of
time we desire to inform our favorite organ
that we are still living and endeavoring to live
the lives of Latter-day Saints, and that the
Manti North Ward Relief Society is up and
doing deeds of kindness—like He who suffered
on the cross—let their good works testify.
	We desire to congratulate our dear President,
Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith, on the attainment
of her eightieth natal day, and we pray for
many more happy returns of the same.
	The year that has just closed has brought
joy to many, sorrow, chastening and bereave-
ment to some, but peace, contentment, and a
feeling of security to all who are seeking "First
the Kingdom of God and its righteousness,"
we trust that 1884 will bring much joy to the
bereaved and chastened, inasmuch as they try
with true resignation to say, "Father, thy will
be done."
	Those who are in trouble find a father, bene-
factor and comforter in our Bishop; a mother,
sister and sympathizer in our beloved president,
Sister Rebecca Wareham, and the members of
the R.S. President J. B. Maiben deserves a
rich share of our gratitude, for his kindly
words of counsel, comfort and ready assistance
in trouble; always encouraging and reminding
us of the good and great things we are des-
tined to accomplish; and indeed all Manti
seems to be trying to out do each other in be-
nevolence, kindness and good deeds.
	The year 1883 will show a bright record, for
our Relief Society; may 1884 continue in the
same path of peace, kindness and benevolence
is the prayer of				A RECIPIENT.
	January, 1884.


The Poland bill, introduced into Congress
this week, proposes an oath to be administered
in Utah and Idaho, that will exclude all mem-
bers of this Church. How any man dare in-
troduce such a bill, disfranchising men and wo-
men for belief, is a mystery. It is the extreme
of extreme measures.


A bow long bent at last waxeth weak.

"A good cause makes a stout heart and a
strong arm."

	"Let us shower the House Judiciary Commit-
tee with letters, postals and petitions demand-
ing recognition at the hands of the law. Give
these men to understand that we are "people,"
and that this must be a government of the peo-
ple, for the people and by the people."--Ex.


