OBITUARY

	Died, at Hyde Park, Jan. 14th 1884, of typhoid fever,
Sarah Elizabeth, daughter of John A. and Mary
Woolf. Deceased was born Nov. 24th, 1867. At the or-
ganization of the Primary Associatoin she was appoint-
ed Treasurer; has since been Assistant Secretary, and at
the time of her death was Secretary. She was also an
active member of the Young Ladies Association. In all
things she gave promise of a noble, useful womanhood.
The following tribute of respect and love was read
at her funeral.
	We, the Primary Association of Hyde Park, desire to
offer a tribute to the memory of Sadie, our beloved Sec-
retary and dear sister, whom our Heavenly Father in
His great wisdom has seen fit to call unto Himself.
We can say in all sincerity that she was beloved and,
respected by us all, and all who had the pleasure of her
acquaintance.
	She was always faithful to her duties, ever ready to
assist, and anxious to learn the principles of the Gos-
pel.
	We would offer to her parents our sincere sympathy
and say while we mourn the loss of a dear sister, we
shall look forward with joy to the time when we shall
meet the dear departed in that land where all tears are
wiped away.
	We pray God our Heavenly Father to bless and com-
fort those who mourn and give unto them the sweet
peace which the Gospel affords and help them to realize
that although their daughter has ceased to labor here
she has gone to continue her work in a higher sphere.

To say that we mourn our sister
	Is useless, for all who know her
Dear Sadie, as  friend and companion,
	Feel stricken by this sad blow,
But we cannot question our Father's will
	Knowing He knows what's best,
And knowing in love He chastens
	E'en the ones that He loves best.
When we've reached teh great,"hereafter,"
	When consigned to an early tomb;
And we'll soon cease our battle with sorrow,
	For all are near that bright shore,
Where we'll meet our lost and loved ones,
	To have them through life ever more.
		MRS. AMELIA KIRLY, Prest.,
		MRS. J. M. Peterson,
		MRS. HARRIET WOOLF, Counselors
And members of the Hyde Park Primary Association.


[Column 1]
For Sale at this Office.

