EDITORIAL NOTES
	On the evening of the 4th of February, a few
of the friends of the Hon. C. W. Penrose, Edi-
tor for Deseret News, Salt Lake City, gathered at
his residence in the 9th Ward to join with his
family in celebrating his birthday. There were
about thirty guests, among them Gen. D. H.
Wells, Bishop Samuel Woolley, Sister E. R.
Snow Smith, Bro. and Sister Horne, Sister Zina
D. H. Young, Bro and Sister Whitney, Bros.
George H. and T. E. Taylor, with their wives,
Drs. Pratt and Barney, and others.
"Only a Girl," was recited by Miss Mattie Horne
in a very feeling and impressive manner.
This young lady has a good voice and an easy,
unaffected style, which is quite pleasing to the
listening.		*		Bro. Penrose responded to
the good feeling and kindly sentiments express-
ed by those who had addressed him in a most
interesting and happy manner.
	During the evening he was presented with a
very pretty, ornamental inkstand, with gold pen
and pencil, and a few words of congratulation
from one of the ladies present. It was a simple
trifle, yet one appropriate from the ladies who
gave it. Bro. Penrose has been accredited with
being the woman suffrage champion in former
legislatures, and in political circles generally. He
made a very able speech in favor of the bill to re
move the word male from the statutes of the
Territory in 1880. A bill which after considera-
ble discussion passed both houses and was lost
because of the Governor refusing his signature.
	Bro. Penrose has been in the Church ever
since he was a boy and has spent much time
upon missions abroad as well as in the home
missionary field, and for many years has been
constantly employed in journalism, in which he
has been eminently successful. He is also well
known as a poet in particular his hymn, "O, ye
mountains high," being a favorite one wherever
the Gospel has found its way. Long may he
live to proclaim the truth and battle against er-
ror with the pen, which in the hand of so gifted
and inspired a writer is far mightier than the
sword.
	THE Unity Club Ball in the theatre on the
evening of the 27th of January was a most de-
lightful affair. President John Taylor and
President George Q. Cannon were both present
and seemed to enjoy the dancing as much as
any of the young folks. The committee were
on the alert to see that everything was in order,
and although no round dancing was permitted,
yet the young folks were as jubilant as possible.
The music was excellent, and although the la-
dies chose partners, it being a leap year party,
we doubt if any gentlemen were alighted who
could be persuaded to dance at all. The club
has been very successful in getting up entertain-
ments, and indeed it has become proverbial that
whatever they undertake is well done; much
credit, however, is due to the able counsel and
suggestions as well as active energy of Gen. H.
B. Clawson who is indispensible and indefatiga-
ble on such occasions.
	The President's Parties. Two of the most
notable social events of the present season have
been the parties for the Bishops given in the So-
cial Hall in this city, Tuesday and Friday even-


ings, February 5 and 8. The first, February 5,
was given on the anniversary of the birth of one
of the first Bishops in the Church, Newel Kim-
ball Whitney, who would, had he been living,
have completed on that day his 89th year.
	These parties were a marked success in every
respect, and the most kindly feeling seemed to
inspire all who participated. The Bishops are a
class of men who deserve recognition and con-
sideration; their labors are arduous and often un-
appreciated, and it is but right to give honor
where honor is due. This courtesy from the
President of the Church will be remembered
hereafter with grateful appreciation.
	The supper, or rather dinner, served on both
these occasions was superb, and the table mag-
nificently laid. Flowers and fruits were artisti-
cally arranged, making the whole appear more
like the banquet of a sunny southern land than
the once desolate, snow-capped Rocky Moun-
tains. Who would have believed even twenty
years ago that fruits and flowers could have or-
namented our tables in the dead of winter. The
dinner itself was delicious. Every dish seemed
seasoned to the taste, and those who served
were most attentive and polite. All was quiet,
orderly, and well arranged. The parties opened
at five with prayer and closed with benediction
at half past eleven.

