BUCKEYES.
WHICH OF THE TWO SHALL VOTE?
“Well, Bess, I've been at the convention all
day, and I think we've made a ticket that will
suit the people. Our man from here got a good
showing,” said Harry Dyle, as he put on his
slippers and dressing gown and seated himself
comfortably in his arm chair.
"Ah, whom do you mean as the man from
here? I am glad of a good ticket,” said his
wife pleasantly.
"Isaac S-----was nominated for represents
tive.”
“IsaacS------! Harry, Dyle, you did not
surely nominate him !” said Mrs. Dyle with in-
intense scorn. 
“Of course we did, and he will make a good
run, too,” her husband replied, lighting a Cigar.
	“O, constancy, thou art a jewel,” said Mrs.
Dyle, “I think he would make a good run, and
the rest of you men should follow after with a
hop, skip and jump.”
“What the deuce is the matter? her hus-
band asked half provoked.
“If I remember rightly, Harry; a few weeks
ago you were for cleaning out the Mormons,
root and branch, because of their polygamy
and to-day you help nominate for represents
live a man who, right here in Ohio, practices
polygamy, or the next thing to it.” Mrs. Dyle
was becoming earnest.
	"His personal or domestic affairs have, no-
thing to do with him as politician,” said
Harry a little embarrassed. “What is the news;
anything going on here to-day?! he asked, as if
anxious to change the subject. 
“Nothing—only I lost something—some-
thing I prized, too,” Mrs. Dyle answered, turn-
ing aside her face that her husband should not.
see her smile.
“You—you—lost something? Not your watch
or your—” Harry was excited.
“No;” said she, “I lost confidence in my
husband as an upright, constant man. He,
strongly condemns a thing when done con-
scientiously and upholds the same thing if done
sneakingly.”
“Well, Bess, what should I have done? he
was on the ticket; it was not my doing alto-
gether. I don’t approve of Isaac’s way of do-
ing at all, you know,” said Mr. Dyle warmly.
“You were at the Primary meeting when the
ticket was made,” she said sententiously.
“Yes; I was; but I did not care to say any-
thing against a man chosen—”
“Well, I should have done so,” Mrs. Dyle
said. “I should have said out plainly, gentle-
men; the man who is to represent us before the
people of Ohio must be upright, pure, honest.
This man is not, and I will not support him. A
man who is not true to his wife will not be true
to any one; a man who is a sneak in domestic
life will sell his birthright for a mess of pot-
tage, whether that birthright be his party or
his state, and I object to such a representative.
That is what you should have said.”
“Oh, Bess, you draw it too fine; we can’t
stop these evils, so what’s the use of being so
conscientious?” He picked up a paper to read.
"Harry, you said the other day that an army
should be sent to clean those Mormons out.
You would spend thousands of dollars and
thousands of lives to clean out Mormonism—
polygamy, in Utah, while a small root of the
stock is nourished and encouraged, to grow
right here.”
“Oh, Bess, you talk just like a woman; they
never talk with any sense on political subjects;
let's change the subject before we both get, an-
gry. Isaac S______ will make a good enough
Representative; will get the party’s votes on
election day and will help to carry through
any measures proposed by the party,” said Mr
Dyle loftily.
“Your party has prohibition for one plank
in’ its platform—will your representative insist
on it being carried out? Harry, if I am a wo-
man, I have thought and read much on politl-
cal subjects, and I tell you, without wishing to
give offence, that had I the privilege of attend-
ing and assisting at these political primaries I
should use my influence for the perfecting of
our own laws, and their enforcement at home,
and not trouble myself about something away
off in Utah until I could positively know whe-
ther it is evil or not. Cast out first the beam
out of thine own eye, and then shalt thou: see
clearly to pull out the mote that is in ;thy
brother’s eve.”
Her husband was soundly asleep. So she
“picked up the evening paper which dropped
from his hands, and read over the report of the
proceedings of the morning session of the con-
vention.					EMILY SCOTT.


