EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I have had a desire for some time to write a
few lines for your valuable paper, as I feel in-
terested in the youth of Zion, being President
of the Young Ladies’ Association of this
place. I feel it my duty, and consider it an
honor to teach and instruct my young sisters
in the principles pertaining to their welfare
and advancement in the Kingdom of our
Father. When we consider our condition as a
people, and the many blessings we enjoy, we
have all reason to rejoice, and we ought to
thank the Lord every day that we live, that we
have apostles and prophets in our midst to
teach us His mind and will concerning us as a
people. We ought to serve the Lord more
faithfully in the future than we have in the
past. I feel that we have been too careless
about our duties as true daughters of Zion. I
fear we do not value our privileges as we might,
The Mutual Improvements Associations are
doing a great deal of good; they are the means
of stirring us up to a sense of our duties. The
Lord has promised if we will be faithful in the
discharge of our duties, and humble ourselves
before Him, He will overule all things for the
good of His people.
	The whole nation, seems to be plotting
against us as a people. In the halls of Con-
gress, in the pulpit and in secret combinations,
though we need not fear them if we live up to
our privileges and the requirements of the
Gospel. This Church has been persecuted
from the very first. They have slain the Proph-
et and Patriarch, and expelled the Saints from
the States; yet the work of God does not cease.
Jesus says, "Rejoice and be exceeding glad, for
great is your reward in heaven, for so persecu-
ted they the Saints and all the holy prophets
that were before you." If we live our religion
with uprightness before the Lord we will have
nothing to fear, for the Lord has power to take
care of His own. We read that He says He
will have a tried people, even as gold tried
seven times by fire. This special legislation

[Column 2]
and secret combinations ought to have the ten
dency of making us live nearer to the Lord, for
He has promised if we will draw near to Him
He will draw near unto us.
	Our little town is somewhat isolated, though
we look forward to our quarterly conference
with the anticipation of having a good time.
I feel interested in the welfare of Zion, and
wish to raise my voice in the defence of this
great work.
	Our association has been organized three
years the 9th of last December; there has been
a vast improvement since that time. We are
writing a small paper, which is read once a
month in our meeting. We hold our meetings
every Tuesday evening, which are well attend-
ed, and we have a good time. Not wishing to
be tiresome I will close, with kind wishes and
success to the EXPONENT.
