ANTI-MORMON MEASURES.

	The bills introduced into the present Congress
for the suppression of Mormonism and utter ex-
tinction of the order of marriage, misnamed
polygamic, are attracting almost universal at-
tention. Men and women, editors and journal-
ists, priests and teachers, who know nothing
scarcely of Mormon doctrine, give opinions on
the subject, and therefore those who do know
and are a quainted with facts bearing upon the
matter, should in justice to themselves and the
cause speak out.
	Mormon women are as well acquainted with
the practical workings of the much talked of
"system" as Mormon men. They have sacri-
ficed as much to help establish the doctrines
which they hold sacred, as their brethren. Can
Congress compel them to give testimony against
those whom they love and revere, as men of
God? It is useless to talk of such a law.
	Have not those who desire to compel women
to testify in court had a fair sample in the case
of Belle Harris, who was arraigned before the
court in Beaver, and when she would not speak
there sent to Salt Lake and twice brought before
the court here, and for the third time refused to
answer. Belle Harris was a young woman only
twenty-one with a babe in her arms, she refused
to tell the court who was the father of her
child, and she preferred to remain in the pene-
tentiary to acting against her own conscience.
There are thousands of "Mormon" women who
have the genuine pluck to do the same thing;
therefore, if this inquisitorial order of things is
to be established and carried out, one of the nec-
essities will be a penetentiary large enough to
hold these persistent, determined, plucky wom-
en and their little children. It will take a few
millions of dollars to carry on these courts and
build and support the prisons and guard houses,
and maintain the courts, etc., and the people of
the United States who are so high-minded that
they cannot allow "Mormonism" to flourish
any longer on American soil, will have to be
taxed to pay the bill.
	Good people, please allow a Mormon woman
to make a suggestion. In New York, Boston,
Philadelphia and Washington, as well as various
other large and flourishing cities, there are vast
numbers of unfortunate, misguided women,
they are poor and friendless, often in the dead
of night they throw their little ones into the
rivers, lakes and canals, and in the frenzy of des-
peration they commit all sorts of crimes; they
are the victims of the seducer and the libertine.
Many of them were once as pure as "the snow,
the beautiful snow"—has Congress any money
to appropriate for houses of refuge for these poor
outcasts, for founding asylums for their illegiti-
mate, helpless babes? Can Congress pass any
laws or enact any measures to prevent the se-

[Column 2]
dueer and the libertine from committing such
crimes, for are men not answerable for the sui-
cides of their victims and the crimes of [--]ticide
and infanticide that are becoming so common?
Does not this dreadful state of things call loudly
for reform? Is there not enough to do to make
clean the inside of the platter before they
stretch away over the Rocky Mountains to
cleanse the outside?
	No wonder the best women of the land are
lending their aid and using their eloquence to
cry against wickedness and abomination brought
about through drunkenness and debauchery; for
the broken hearts, the desolate hearths, the
wretched homes, testify how the demon of crime
is raging in this fair land of America. There
are other evils that demand the attention of
Congress, more subtle and more insidious than
the plural order of marriage, which is plain and
simple and in accordance with Scripture. Then
who are the men who are so exercised over the
sins of the "Mormons?" Are they free from
evil, and can they without blushing cast the
first stone? Are their skirts clear of stain,
their lives blameless, or are any like the man
who refused his daughter shelter or even refuge
in his proud and lofty mansion when he found
her about to become a mother, the victim of a
vile and wicked man, whom he, himself had in-
troduced into his home; this merciless father in
his haugthy ostentation applied to a woman a
known philanthropist to take his daughter and
hide her shame, or he would drive her from his
door, for he would not be dishonored; when
questioned by the lady as to his own innocence
of sin, bowed his head in shame and could not
answer, but vowed angrily he would not submit
to be questioned by a woman, while his burning
face and vehement passion told too well the tale
he would fain have hidden. Yet this inhuman
father swore he would horsewhip his young, del-
icate and beautiful daughter if she would not
leave his roof within a certain period, and her
mother was powerless to help her, unless in-
deed she had gone forth to share her misery and
ruin. This is no idle fiction, but was related to
the writer, with tears and sobs, by one of the
parties to the dreadful transaction.
	Surely the honorable members of the Con-
gress of the United States will never pass with-
out severely criticizing, correcting and modify-
ing such bills as are now before that august
body. Were such to be the case the principles
of our glorious country would be violated, and
the most serious results would certainly follow
such high-handed injustice to a part of the body
politic. One would think that the disfranchise-
ment of the men and women who had ever
been in plural marriage would be sufficient pun-
ishment, even retro-active justice going back to
Nauvoo, and excluding from voting women
who had been widows ever since the death of
Joseph and Hyrum Smith. This is really a
penalty and giving an extreme interpretation of
the Edmund's law; but it is not against plurali-
ty of wives that the war is being waged. That
forms the best pretext for "the liberal party" to
hinge upon; those who have watched the move-
ments of these people know better. There are
certainly some clear-headed, far-seeming men who
will stand up and defend the rights of citizens
of this far-famed land of freedom and religious
liberty, and although there may be some very
strong measures passed against this people dur-
ing the present session, yet the Lord will over-
rule all things for the advancement of His
cause, and the Latter-day Saints have nothing
to fear while they are in the path of duty.
	It is something to the credit of Senator Hoar
that he reports himself adverse to the clause in
the anti-Mormon bill he presented which ex-
cludes women from suffrage, and although the

[Column 3]
bill is a dreadful one as it stands, it seems im-
possible for it to pass in its present form. There
are, we trust, other members who will report
themselves adverse to other portions of the bill.


