		A REFUTATION.
	The attempts of Mrs. Angie Newman to rep-
resent, or rather, misrepresent the state of Mor-
mon society in Utah to the ladies of Cincinnati,
produced a great wave of disgust and indigna-
tion in the breast of at least one of the women
whom she so vilely scandalized, and were it
not for the fact that many unthinking people,
who have had no opportunity to learn of us as
we really are, might be led to take her very
unreliable information for the truth and be
grossly deceived thereby, the accounts of her
labors would produce from me no more than a
contemptuous smile-- but in simple justice to
myself and the thousands of pure, virtuous,
and noble women whose reputation she has

[2nd column]
sought to drag down into the deepest mire, I
feel justified in giving expression to my own
views and experiences of a Mormon plural wife.
	Had Mrs. Newman been as wise and cunning
as she has proven herself to be vicious and un-
principled she would have chosen subjects more
hidden in their nature, for those upon which
she sought to enlighten the public mind are
most easy of investigation, and thousands of
Gentiles who have been most kindly and hos-
pitably entertained in Mormon homes, can tes-
tify that her statements are as false as they are
wilful. Many writers whose reputation for ve-
racity is quite as well established as that of
Mrs. Newman have treated upon affairs in
Utah in positive coutradiction to all her "reli-
able information"--they were people of normal
brains and clear judgment, and were not
swayed by prejudice and, while holding no
sympathy with our religious views and under-
standing not the principles which gave birth
and nourished the wonderful structure of Mor-
monism, still they were honest and brave
enough to acknowledge that a marvelous work
and a wonder really existed, and were just
enough to seek information from the firm sup-
porters of the system which they aimed to rep-
resent. They did not rely upon the idle stories
told in the street, nor seek the views of apos-
tates whose light had become darkness, and
Gentiles who were here to make money and
knew nothing about our principles and cared
less; they knew that our virtues were not to be
learned from our enemies, and our people hon-
or and respect the true gentlemen and ladies
who have spoken the truth about them. It is
strange that the would be popular and notori-
our lecturerer with all her investigations did not
discover, that many of the investigations did not
discover, that many of the apostates were
among the wealthiest of the community, and
have remained here for years unmolested; there
is not the slightest necessity for their remain-
ing here unless they desire to do so; the Mor-
mons do not prevent them from fleeing to
climes more congenial; as for the poor of this
class, their reported cries of fear and prayers
for deliverance would long since have ceased
to howl through the land had some of the
would be philauthropists tried as hard to liber-
ate those who wished to escape as they have
tried to persecute those who wished to remain.
	The fact is, that Gentiles and apostates know
that they are safer here than they would be in
any other part of self-righteous Christendom, but
they are not as free to introduce their unright-
eous practices and establish saloons, gambling
hells, and houses of prostitution and assigna-
tion-- hence they feel in bondage and many
of them leave the country. As for woman's
bondage and galling chains, they never existed
only in the depraved imagination. I was born
and raised among this people; yes, reared in a
home where prayers ascended from the family
altar night and morning, and where an atmos-
phere of care and tenderness pervaded and
bound together the family circle. I have been
free to think and act upon my own agency--
have attended worship in the Sabbath schools
and churches of the various denominations,
and have read much of the Christian literature
published in the world; have mingled in Gen-
tile society and have had opportunities of mar-
riage where I could have been rescued from
Mormon influences and supposed bondage and
degradation, but I chose to follow  dictates
of my own conscience and adhere to those
principles which I knew to be revealed from
heaven; and while I of my own free will and
choice accepted the state of a plural wife, be-
lieved by the world to be the most appalling 
condition of woe and wretchedness in which a
woman can exist--I declare that all the sorrow
that has crushed and blighted my life is the
fruits of Gentile influence.
	My early childhood's home was bright
and happy until a demon clothed in

[column 3]

Gentile garb, schooled in all the subtle
arts and fascinations of Gentile principles
entered and cast his poisonous, withering
breath upon the scene. Stealthily he
sowed the seed of discontent, his oily, decep-
tive tongue pictured a home of ease and wealth
beyond the poverty of the newly settled desert;
his sweetly whispered compliments sought their
way through woman's vanity to woman's heart,
encouraged by the first sign of attention he ea-
gerly pursued his victim, day by day weaving
a snare of temptations hard to resist, till, oh
fatal weakness! the wife and mother forgot her
holiest truth, and urged on by irresistible pow-
ers of persuasion, she fled from Utah with her
vile deciever, and finally, destroyer. The vil-
lian married his victim, but he who ruins an-
other man's home will never find happiness in
his own. A sad and pitiful storu was soon
told. Less than three years of bitter anguish
and remorse, unavaling repentance and man's
cruelty, taunts and neglect, laid the broken
heart of a young, talented, but misguided,
Mormon wife in a lone grave, far away from
all that was dearest and best on earth. this
was the price of freedom offered by one, bitter
against the Latter-day Saints, and plural mar-
riage in particular. This is the plan advised
by the prominent missionaries who seek to lib-
erate the wives of daughters of this people.
	Not long since a circumstance came under
my notice which forced me to exclaim, as I
many times have done before, than God I'm
a plural wife! A young girl of Mormon par-
entage was wooed and wo by  respectable
appearing and self styled single yonng man,
hailing from the west. All appeared fair and
bright, the young wife felt that her life long
happiness was secured, and looked hopefully
and trustingly into the future. One child
was born, and soon afterward the husband
went to a distance to obtain employment--one
year passed and no news came from the man
who had vowed eternal devotion--then came
authentic word that he had decieved and led
to the altar another bride. Closely following
thi news, came that of a deserted wife and
family in the east. Letters of inquiry were
written, and in  came letters from wife
number one, with heart-rending details of cruel
desertion and suffering, long years of watching,
waiting and anxiety, only to learn of man's
heartlessness and treachery; and the eye that
could have witnessed the agony of wife num-
ber two as she rocked herself to and fro,
clutching the unmistakable proofs of the vil-
liany of him who had deliberately made her an
illegal wife and branded her child in the eyes
of man as illegitimate, could never again look
 upon a plural wife with pity. No, it is 
not the wives and children of the Latter-day 
Saints who need pity, there are thousands of
others who are the victims of men's deception
and cruelty in this glorious land of America,
who are suffering for sympathy and sustenance.
And I would respectfully suggest to Mrs. New-
man that she devote the energies of her phil-
anthropic soul in raising means to support the
wives and educate the children of the unprin-
cipled men who have come to this terrirtory and
either married only to abandon or deceive and
ruined many a trusting woman who might
have found happiness and honor but for their 
vile influence. There are many such victims
scattered throughout Utah, and if Mrs. New-
man saw any sorrowful, dejected looking wom-
en and neglected children they must have been
that class, for the Mormons are proud to ac-
knowledge, educate and treat with care and
tenderness their own wives and children, and
considering the magnitude of such a responsi-
bility more could not reasonably be  required
of them.
	Will some of the energetic Christian mission-
aries search out and keep these unfortunates?
If so they will find a wide field for usefulness.


and their sympathy will not he misapplied. In
conclusion I will add that I have had years of
experience in plural marriage and do solemnly
testify that I have been so happy and content-
ed with my husband and his kind, affectionate
family that I have never once seen a suitable
moment for regret, but some will ask, Are
there not trials in that order? Certainly there
are, and are there not trials in monogamy?
Ask the records of the divorce courts. Why
not petition Congress to abolish all systems of
marriage because people have suffered in it?
The exercise of evil passions, selfishness, jeal-
ousy, envy, and malice, will cause troubles in
every condition ol life—where the weaknesses
of humanity are allowed to predominate sor-
row follows. There is no greater field for the
exercise of all that is pure, noble and divine in
woman’s nature, and the truer the woman the
more happiness she will see in that order. Aside
from all reasonable arguments of a physical
nature (and there are many in its favor) we
know that God has again spoken from the
heavens and commanded His children to obey
that law. We accept this knowledge in our
faith, consequently there cannot be any com-
pulsion. Woman is perfectly free to make
her choice of a husband and when she does so
understandingly and prefers some honorable,
virtuous protector, even though he has other
wives, has she not the right guaranteed by our
glorious Constitution to life, liberty, and the
pursuit of happiness? Congress says we shall
find these treasures as it dictates our own con-
science, shall not dictate, but God has spoken;
we have heeded His voice and look to Him
for protection.		A MORMON WIFE.


