DEAR EDITOR:
	Hardly feeling capable, yet I will endeavor to
write a few lines to our worthy little paper, the
EXPONENT. I have been a subscriber to the EX-
PONENT for about four years, and I can truthful-
ly say I never was so interested in a paper in all
my life; it is highly appreciated in our family,
my husband and I read it with great interest; it
makes me feel good when I observe the interest
our sisters are taking in bearing their testimo-
nies to the truth of this Gospel, and taking such
great interest in our paper. It makes me feel,
dear sisters, that I would like to have a voice
with you, as I know this work is of God and not
of man. This is the first attempt that I have
made for publication, so if I don't do as well as
the rest of my sisters you will excuse me, but I
will write just what the spirit dictates, for I be-
lieve we ought at all times to be dictated by the
Holy Spirit what to say and do. Dear Sisters,
what does our religion teach us? It teaches us
to be honest, pure, virtuous, holy, and every-
thing that will elevate us to a noble life. Then
it pays us, my sisters, to live the lives of true
Latter-day Saints. It pays us to observe the
will of the Lord and keep His commandments,
whereby we will be blessed spiritually and tem-
porally. The Bible says, he that knoweth the
will of the Father and doeth it not shall be beat-
en with many stripes. Then, sisters, let us try
to overcome our weaknesses so that the spirit of
peace and harmony will dwell in our habitations

[Column 2]
and then the sterner sex will be able to over-
come their weaknesses, for the Lord requires a
people that will be humble before Him so that
He can bestow light and knowledge at all times,
and He will grant us the desires of our hearts
and will help us to overcome our weaknesses so
that we will never speak any harsh words or do
any thing that is displeasing in the sight of
God.
	I know there are great blessings to be derived
from paying an honest tithing and paying our
donations for the poor, and in erecting holy tem-
ples to the Lord we are blessed spiritually. This
I can bear a faithful testimony to, for I have
proven it. I think it a great privilege, my sis-
ters, to be living in this great and eventful age,
where we can, by living faithful to our cove-
nants, officiate in those holy temples for the liv-
ing and the dead. I thank the Lord every day
I live for His blessings towards me and my fam-
ily, and as a people for the peace we are en-
joying here in the valleys of the mountains. It
makes my heart ache when I read of the des-
truction and destitution that is going on in the
world. We can see the predictions of the proph-
ets coming to pass more every day we live.
Then this ought to make us live nearer to the
Lord. I think we as a people ought to feel won-
derfully blesses; we ought to more greatly enjoy
our religion here than we did in she old country,
as here we have the President of the Church
and the twelve Apostles to instruct and teach
us the things of God, and if we will only observe
the teachings we receive from time to time I
know that our reward will be sure.
	I feel thankful that I am a member of the
Relief Society of the Second Ward of Logan.
Our worthy president, Sister Ballard, is a faith-
ful, good Latter-day Saint, who, with her coun-
selors, Sister Larsen and Smith, is striving at
all times to teach such things to the sisters as
will build them up, and show them the truths of
life and salvation. We have real good meetings
and the Spirit of the Lord prevails in our midst.
I always feel greatly blessed by attending our
meetings. Of course, at times a mother with
small children is kept at home, especially in the
winter time, when it is not wisdom to expose
our little darlings to the severity of the weath-
er, for the Lord has given them to us to take
care of, and if we do not He will call us to ac-
count for not doing so. I never let work keep
me at home, for I accomplish much more by at-
tending my meetings than I do by staying at
home, for I am blessed spiritually as well as
temporally.
	A few weeks ago we had an annual meeting
in the schoolhouse; we had with us the Presi-
dent of the Stake, Sister Benson, and her two
counselors; had a very interesting meeting, and
I know if we sisters will put into practice the
teachings we received, as I know they are true,
we will be received in the celestial Kingdom,
and dwell with God our Father. I do not give
this information in as a secretary of the Relief
Society, but merely as a member of the society,
as it makes my heart rejoice when I think and
ponder over the goodness of God and the bless-
ings He bestows upon us from day to day, and
He will continue to bestow more upon us if we
will only obey His laws and keep His command-
ments. I know that we as wives and mothers
have a great mission to perform; we can accom-
plish much and do much good in raising our
families in the fear of the Lord; if we will only
be prayerful and faithful; teach our children
how to pray; ask the blessing on the food
in the absence of the father; that when they
are sick they will have no use for doc-
tors, but will call for the administration and
have faith; even faith from little children avail-
eth much; this I have experienced.
	There is a little circumstance that happened a
week or two ago to my little boy that I will re-
late. He will be six years old next month: he
was playing in the yard and fell on a broken
bottle and cut his leg; it was quite a bad cut for
the time, the wound laid open and the flesh hang-
ing out. Of course, mother like, I was fright-
ened; he was crying, but the first words he said
to me were, "Ma, I don't want no doctor to fix
my leg." So I said, what do you want, Charley?
He said he wanted some oil. What oil, I said.
Of course I knew that he meant consecrated oil.
That will make me better. I applied the oil and
in half an hour he was up running around again
I was afraid it would start bleeding again, but
it did not. It was astonishing how it healed.
This shows that he has great faith in the oil and
he will drink the oil like water. I always use
them to it from their infancy, and I know it
does them good. This little circumstance makes


me think more than ever of my b y; and how
thankful we ought to feel to our Heavenly Fa-
ther for our precious jewels, when we can ob-
serve the light and knowledge He bestows upon
them, and will continue so to do if we will only
keep His commandments and strive to teach
our children to do the same. There are many
circumstances that I could relate that have hap-
pened in my own family where the hand of the
Lord has been made manifest wonderfully. One
night I was awakened with my baby burning
with fever; she would not notice me; she was
about 16 months old. My husband got up and
brought two of the Elders to administer to her
with him, for I always believe in the father
taking a part. When they took their hands
from her head she looked up to me and smiled
and said, "me," and then looked around to the
brethren and smiled, as much as to say, I feel
better. She soon got well.
	Oh, sisters, when we have such experience as
this we ought to feel it a pleasure and a great
privilege to serve the Lord with all our might, 
mind and strength; and oh how much we do
need to in this mortal sphere of life, where the 
evil one is always trying to lead us into by and
forbidden paths. There are none of us who feel
better than when we  are walking in the path of
duty, for the path of duty is the path of safety.
And how happy we ought to make our homes,
so that the sweet intercourse of the Holy Spirit
will always be in our habitations, that when we
call for the brethren to administer to any of our
family they will know that our families are uni-
ted and encouraging the Holy Spirit in their
midst, for they will feel the influence while they
are administering, and the results we know will
be good, for the Lord's house is  a house of order,
and not a house of confusion; so says the Bible.
And we want to make ourselves as near like the
Lord as possible. A wife or wives living in har-
mony and being united with the husband and
the husband with them the children will be the 
same, and they will be able to do much good
and accomplish much. Their homes will be al-
ways cheerful, and any spare time the husband
has after his day's labor is done he will always
find comfort at home, he will never seek for
other places to pass his time, but he will ever
feel it a pleasure to be at home with his family.
I know that if a wife loves her husband she will 
make home as cheerful and pleasant as possible.
We have only once to live a lifetime, and it
pays us better to live it properly and prepare
ourselves to live happy in the world that is to
come by living happy together; we can live our
religion better; we can live nearer to God, for
one will help the other; we will be able to ob-
serve all His laws and keep all His command-
ments, for union is strength; if either of us have
any faults, which we all have, let us point them
out to each other in kindness and meekness, for
a kind word will never die, and it will take bet-
ter effect. Let us not speak harshly to each
other, by doing this we will be able to observe
that we are taking interest in each other and
working for each other's benefit. Our children
will also partake of the same influence and they
will be more united.
	Well, my dear sisters, I hope we will be
prayerful, obedient, be true to our covenants,
and be able to discern the good spirit from the
bad--attend to all our duties and live the lives
of true Latter-day Saints, that when we have 
finished our career here upon the earth we will
be brought back and dwell in the celestial king-
dom with God our Father.
	This is my earnest desire. From your sister
in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day 
Saints,			EMMA J. BLUMMEL.
	Logan, Feb. 14th, 1884.


