ASSOCIATION

Will be held in Lincoln Hall, Washington, D.
C., March 4th, 5th and 6th, 1884. Public ses-
sions will be held at 2 and 7:30 p.m. on each of
these days, and Executive Sessions, open only
to officers and members of the Association,
will be held daily at 10:30 a.m.
	All State and Local Suffrage Societies are
earnestly requested to send delegates with care-
fully prepared reports of work done, and re-
sults achieved, during the year 1883 in their


respective States; and all persons interested in
the enfranchisement of women, are invited to
attend the convention and participate in its de-
liberations.
	Among the speakers invited to be present
are Matilda Joslyn Gage, Isabella Beecher
Hooker, Rev. Olympia Brown Willis, Phoebe
W. Couzens, Harriette Robinson Shattuck,
Madam Clara Neymann, Belva A. Lockwood,
Mary B. Clay, Sallie Clay Bennett (of Ken-
tucky), Lillie Devereux Blake, Elizabeth
Boynton Harbert and Helen M. Gougar.
	The principal object of this Association,
from its organization, has been to secure to the
women of the several States and Territories na-
tional protection in the Citizens Right to Vote,
through a Sixteenth Amendment to the Na-
tional Constitution.
	The favorable reports of the Special Com-
mittees in both Houses of the 47th Congress,
lead us to hope, from the 48th, the final pas-
sage of the resolution now pending for the
submission to the several State Legislatures of
a proposition to so amend the National Consti-
tution, that it will prohibit the disfranchise-
ment of United States citizens on account of
sex.
	The satisfactory results of unrestricted Suff-
rage for Women in Wyoming Territory, of
School Suffrage in twelve States in the Union,
of Municipal and School Suffrage in England
and Scotland, of both Municipal and Parlia-
mentary Suffrage in the Isle of Man, with the
recent triumph in Washington Territory, the
constant agitation of the Suffrage question in
this country, and in England, and the demands
that women are everywhere making for larger
liberties, are most encouraging signs of the
times, and make this the supreme hour for all
who are interested in the enfranchisement of
women to dedicate their time and their money
to the success of this movement, and by their
generous contributions to strengthen those up-
on whom rests the responsibility of carrying
forward this beneficient reform.
	ELIZABETH CADY STANTON, President,
	SUSAN B. ANTHONY, Vice-Prest. at large,
			Riggs House, Washington, D. C.
	MAY WRIGHT SEWALL, Ch. Ex. Committee,
	405 N. Pennsylvania St., Indianapolis, Ind.
	JANE H. SPOFFOED, Treasurer,
			Riggs House, Washington, D. C.


