AN INDIGNANT AMERICAN WOMAN.

	I have looked long and earnestly for some one
of the male sex (outside of this Church) who
thinks that a woman is a person and worthy of the
franchise. I said one of the male sex, but I
should not have made such a sweeping assertion,
for there are some honorable exceptions (God
bless them!) to the rule and it has always been
a marvel to me, and, indeed, it passes my com-
prehension how men who profess to be intelli-
gent can be so blind, it looks to me so natural
that woman should be as good and enjoy the
same privileges as men. Why, they are the
mothers of men. The very best of men have
the best of mothers, and some of them are will-
ing to acknowledge that their mothers did them
some good, but the majority of them, one would
think from their tone, had no mothers.
	Now, there is a great deal said about Mormon
men oppressing Mormon women, enslaving
them and a great deal more of that kind of
nonsense, which is to us very amusing, for we
know better, and we know that those who origi-
nate such stories know better, for those same
men (Mormon men) gave us the franchise, and
now those men who would so us such great ser-
vice (in their minds) would like to see it taken
away from us, and yet they love us; have they
not proven their love for us in many ways? Are

Column Break

they not always importuning Congress to do
something in our behalf, if it is only to get
them to pass laws to compel our fathers and
husbands to cast off their plural wives and child-
ren about as they do theirs? They accuse Mor-
mon men of abusing their wives and treating
them like "cattle," when the facts are we have a
great ideal more liberty, and our rights are bet-
ter protected than any other women that we
have any knowledge of. There are Mormon
men, of course, that are no better than other
men, but where this is the case they have neg-
lected their privileges, for the Gospel, as re-
vealed to Joseph Smith, is calculated to make
bad men good, if they will repent of their sins,
and good men better. We expect  them to be
better than other men, and if they live up to
the requirements of the Gospel they will be, else
what is the Gospel for, if not to elevate man-
kind and prepare them to enjoy the society and
dwell in the presence of their Creator, our Hea-
venly Father? Well, if they ever get there I
wonder if they would not feel lonely if there
were no women there, and yet we are not
thought good enought to go to the polls where
they go. Paul said, "the man is not without
the woman, and the woman is not without the
man in the Lord." Now, I should not be sur-
prised to see the wives of those men who so
persistently refuse to grant to women their
rights, turn around after a while when they see
that the Mormon men are the only ones who
are disposed to treat them fairly, and fulfil the
prophecy of Isaiah, recorded in the 4th chapter,
in which he says: "And in that day seven-wom-
men shall take hold of one man, saying, we will
eat our own bread and wear our own apparel,
only let us be called by thy name to take away
our reproach." One would think it had almost
come to be a reproach." One would think it had almost
come to be a reproach to be a woman. It is pit-
iful to see such men placed where they can have
the power to deny people their rights, it seems
to me that they should be confined to a place
where they could do the least harm and that
was better suited to their advanced ideas than
the halls of Congress, or positions of trust in
this great republic of free America, namely, a 
lunatic asylum. Well, perhaps I have said
enough upon this subject, for it is one that is
calculated to raise the blood of '76 to boiling
point if engaged in too freely; and I desire to
keep cool and not exercise myself unnecessari-
ly.								RUTH.
	Feb. 1st., 1884.


[Column 1]
