Your Home Beautiful By Mabel Margaret Luke
HOME is one of the most loved words in the English language. Originally it meant merely an abode, but down through the ages it has gained a new meaning?"an endeared dwelling," "a congenial abiding place." And home should be more than a place to live in?where we eat and sleep. It should be a haven for the weary, a retreat for those vexed by life's problems. From the home must come the incentive for better living, for higher ideals. Home should be a place where one can live comfortably, satisfyingly and happily.
Your home is an index of your character, a reflection of your personality. It is the background, the setting, for the play called "Family Life." Is it the right setting for your family? Home is what you make it?it expresses you. I have always thought it was too bad when a story ended, "And they lived happily ever after." What an opportunity the author misses. He might go into detail of the romantic adventure of making the home in which they spent their lives "ever after." No matter if you live in a magnificent suburban home or in a humble farm cottage, your home may be lovely. It is your duty and privilege to make your home pleasant and attractive, to your family and your friends. You should greet your home with pride. Throughout the history of the world man has striven to translate his thoughts in terms of beauty. In primitive times this was evidenced in the crude decorations on the cave walls, in pottery and in weaving. The course of civilization is mirrored in the development of the home, and the beautiful things that are counted among the chief glories of civilization have come down to us through the centuries. In recent years home beautification has become a part of the life of most intelligent people. There has been such an astonishing revival of the national taste that an appreciation of the beautiful has come to be an accepted index to our culture. However, many people have the idea that to decorate their homes correctly involves vast sums of money. This is far from true, for example, it is no more expensive to paint a room in lovely, harmonizing colors than to have a dull, lifeless interior. Beauty and character can be expressed at a minimum of cost. A knowledge of the rules of interior decoration, rather than being expensive, will often prove of genuine economy. Expensive materials and furnishings may be overshadowed by simple and less expensive items more tastefully arranged. Let me illustrate. One may admire a piece of silk damask and buy it for some room in the home, although it may not fit there at all. Chintz or rep might have been very much more suitable and decorative, and certainly less expensive. We are not judged by the quantity, or value of our possessions, but by what these possessions show us to be.
AN attractive room never comes by accident. It is the happy result of thought and plan. There are certain fundamental principles that underly all good decoration which can easily be followed to obtain the effect desired. Always, remember, though, that to be truly your home there must be something of you in it. It is ever so much more satisfactory to plan one's own home than to follow someone else's ideas. Express your individuality; be original, not that to be different has any justification in itself, but originality in achieving a fresh and harmonious effect is welcome; and to do that you will not upset the fundamental laws of balance, scale, and proportion, movement, texture and unity. It is the purpose of these articles to help you secure a clearer understanding of these principles and the proper application of them in your efforts to realize your "dream home."
BALANCE is perhaps more important than any other one thing in securing an artistic result. Balance gives repose and restfulness. We might briefly define it as an agreeable distribution of emphasis. Most of us can recognize balance instinctively. For example, if we entered a room where all the tall and heavy pieces were at one end, we should feel as if it were tipping that way, that we would have to steady it. If there is an attraction of architectural or other features pulling in one direction there must be a compensating attraction somewhere else. If there isn't unrest will result. This equalizing of effect may be accomplished by color, value, and bulk. There are two kinds of balance?formal and occult. Strictly formal balance is where there are identical objects at equal distances on either side of a center line. Two windows, alike in size, and form, and exactly the same distance from a center fireplace would result in formal balance. Or two like chairs on either side of a bookcase or table; two candlesticks, and perhaps two other like objects on either side of a clock on a mantel, are other types of formal balance. This sort of balance is easiest to obtain, is satisfying to the eye and produces a sense of restfulness as well as dignity. However, when used too much it will result in stiffness and monotony. The other, or occult balance seems to be felt, to appeal to our sensitiveness. It is more subtle and provides variation and interest. For instance, if on one side of a fireplace we had a window and on the other only a plain wall, we should have an unbalanced condition. But if against the plain wall we put a table with a mirror above it we would have occult balance. This can be further illustrated in the case of two chairs of unequal size. Imagine that these chairs were put on a balancing board placed over a center article. If we put the larger nearer the center and the smaller at a greater distance from the center we would have balance. This works on the same principle as a see-saw. Balance can apply to color as well as bulk. Imagine that we placed two small walnut cabinets on either side of a center article. It would balance, of course. But suppose we painted one of the cabinets an ivory color. It would now be unbalanced. There is a difference in color value. We would have to add something to the lighter cabinet to equalize the attraction. If there is no center object, and you have two articles to place against a wall, put them at equal distances from an imaginary line, leaving a greater distance at the outside than between the articles to avoid stiffness. A good example of such an arrangement would be with twin beds.
WE have been considering only one wall, or one group. The matter becomes more involved when we have the entire room to consider. If we have a fireplace in the center of one wall and there is no architectural balance on the opposite wall, we would secure a balance if we put there such an article as a secretary-bookcase. To assure yourself that you have balanced your room, stand in the center, look at each wall, then turn and face the corner and look at it in connection with the adjoining wall. Then get the effect of the room as a whole. There are many interesting possibilities in balancing. Work some out for yourself by arranging and rearranging your furniture, the bric-a-brac on mantels and dressers, etc. Train yourself to recognize balance. Because scale and proportion are so closely associated in meaning, for our purpose we can consider them together. Proportion is the logical relationship of size between the several parts composing the whole, for instance, a chair might have a back that is too heavy in proportion to the size of the legs. Scale might be defined as a consistency of dimensions between the whole and its parts or between two or more objects. It includes the room and all objects placed within it. To illustrate: Into a small room we might introduce a number of pieces of furniture of massive size, which although in perfect scale with each other are out of scale with the room and therefore give it a crowded, choked appearance. Other concrete examples of the violation of scale are: hanging delicate curtains from heavy rods; or combining in the same room pieces of vigorous character with those of delicate line and feeling. The writer recently saw an example of this sort. Over a dainty mahogany table hung a huge picture, having a wide, gilded frame. It was very much out of scale with the table as well as appearing ridiculous. One feared the fate of the table should the picture fall. A word should be said here about the application of scale in pattern. Do not use large, sprawling patterns in the wallpaper, drapery, or floor coverings of a small room. An upholstery material with a large, prominent design could not be used on a chair of delicate proportions without upsetting the principle of scale. HE problems of proportion and scale will confront us in every phase of furnishing the house. Especially must we consider it when buying furniture or other articles for the home, for choosing the right thing and making it a part of the whole is the secret of success in good decoration.. Have you ever noticed how your eye follows any line in the direction in which it is going? For example, in an arched opening your eye goes up, around the curve and down. In a room where there is vertical striped wallpaper your eye does not stop until it reaches the end of the line. In some patterned wallpaper or linoleum your vision jumps from one part of the design to another, unconsciously creating lines which it follows in some direction. This reaction is called movement and a knowledge of its application is very important. Movement has the opposite effect from balance?balance satisfies the eye and there is repose ?movement is constantly leading your eye in one direction or another and causes unrest. If small rugs are laid diagonally on the floor they are in opposition to the movement created by the lines  of the room which is rectangular, therefore, there is 'conflict. Your eye is involuntarily pulled up, down and across all at one time. This is also true in the case of putting furniture at various angles and cata-corner in the room. There can be no rest in such a place. If your room is too high or too low a knowledge of movement is valuable as you will be able to produce apparent remedies. In a low room which you wish to appear higher, use vertical strips and lines. In a high room, horizontal lines should be emphasized. HOWEVER, if the movement in our rooms was all horizontal and vertical it would prove monotonous. A proper use of rhythm or movement in curved lines, arches, draping and designs will add interest. Let us take as an illustration the popular tie-back curtain?if draped gracefully and subtly back there is an interesting line created, but if it is compressed as though it were in too tight a corset, the line of the window is broken and the result is distracting. Another quality which you should learn to recognize is texture. This will be treated more fully in the articles on textiles. But because we will meet it from time to time when dealing with all finishes, etc., it will be well to give it a little attention now. Texture is the surface finish, the roughness or smoothness, the feel of a material, be it cloth, masonry, pottery, or anything else. To show the value of textural harmony a common violation of it will be pointed out?the use of coarse, rough bricks around the fireplace opening when the mantel is of fine enamel finish. In a room of fine proportions with beautifully paneled and painted walls it would be a mistake to use drapes of tapestry or heavy linen, while if these were used in a room of, say Renaissance influence, with rough plaster walls, they would be in perfect harmony. Texture is somewhat influenced by the demands of use. We would not, for example, put a fine silk material on the floor, nor would we put light fragile upholstery on a chair or couch which was in constant use. There should be variety and contrast in texture which will lend charm to the room, keeping in mind the principle of necessary harmony that must exist between articles used together. A fine wool rug may be used in the same room with silk damask drapes. While not of the same texture, there is similarity enough for them to agree perfectly. O have harmony, there must be a measure of similarity, things must be more alike than they are unlike. You can then gain the de- | sired result. To illustrate: If in a room of oblong rectangular shape is put a round table there is conflict as there is no similarity between the round and oblong dimensions. But if the table is elliptical (oval) harmony will be restored as the likeness is more apparent than the difference. You can see the workings of this principle for yourself by using a piece of paper of oblong rectangular shape as a vertical panel. On this place a smaller piece of paper the same shape. There is harmony here, a unity of form. If you turn the paper so the length lies horizontally on the panel, here will be conflict. But use an oval and harmony is restored, as the shapes are consistent. Another illustration of this principle is in using furniture of the same general boundary lines as the wall?that is, in a high room tall YOUR HOME BEAUTIFUL 13 furniture will look better, and in low ceilinged rooms all tall furniture would be incongruous. But this does not mean that there can be no contrast in the form of things?there should be for the sake of emphasis, but the dominant idea should be one of structural unity. Our aim in interior decoration is to find a harmony that is. Not monotonous, and to be able to introduce contrast without conflict, for just as a false note can ruin the harmony of a musical chord, so can a wrong design, or an unhappy color combination destroy the effect of an otherwise perfect room. Next Month: Schemes.