Notes to the Field
Activity Department
SALT LAKE STAKE has an activity department that is functioning splendidly under the able leadership of Evelyn Updegraff. It relieves Presidents of responsibility, it is increasing attendance and it is making the work go more smoothly. Under its aegis kindergartens are functioning in each Ward. One organization reports that 9 mothers who never attended Relief Society meetings before, because they could not leave their children, are now enjoying the work. The department has educational and recreational programs for the children so that they are delighted when Relief Society Day comes. Health stories and picture charts make the work very attractive to the little ones. Children's games and finger plays are given. The children are taught colors by coloring empty spools and paper sweet peas, etc., and having the children name the colors. The people of the Wards have been asked to give toys that they are not using for the Kindergarten cause. The following outline was given at the beginning of the year and each Union Meeting parts of it pertaining to this department are carefully developed. Aim: Each day I will find a few minutes for Spiritual Growth. Ward Relief Society Conferences, November and December, 1932, January, February and March, 1933. Stake Temple Excursion, November 7, 1932. Stake Union Meeting last Friday in each month, 17th Ward Chapel, 2 p. M. March, 1933?Anniversary Program commemorating the organization of the Relief Society in Nauvoo on March 17, 1842. March 17, 1933?Stake Relief Society?Temple Excursion. May, 1933?Stake Relief Society Flower Show: Date and place to be announced later. June, 1933?Stake Annual Entertainment to County Infirmary Patients. June, 1933?Stake Board Reception to Ward Officers. June, 1933?Mother and Daughters' Outing?Date and place to be announced later. Games and programs of various kinds are provided by this department where they are desired for Social events, Annual Days, etc. Each month recipes are given out at the Union Meeting. One of the recipes given is made before and is served to the class. The recipes are written on paper 8 1/2 x 11 inches, as are also the games and other instructions. The Ward leaders are asked to secure a large loose leaf book and then each month they can punch the sheets they receive, use little reinforcements and place them in the loose leaf book. Since it is difficult to find plays suited to their needs, they are endeavoring to bring out the hidden talent in their members and are, therefore, sponsoring a play writing contest. Last year the Department conducted a story writing contest. In September at their Union Meeting they gave a number of finger plays and games to the Wards and their picture story for the kindergarten. Games for Relief Society parties. Recipes for sandwich fillings for the school lunch boxes. Salads to be taken in small jars. Raw carrots and fruit. The recipes given this month were in the Relief Society Magazine. Information regarding the play writing contest. In preparation for the flower show to be held in May, 1933, they had Mrs. Maud Chegwidden, an expert in raising flowers, speak on "Fall Planting for Spring Bloom." Preparing the soil, names of bulbs, how to plant, etc. To encourage reading on the part of members of their department they suggested the book, "Adventures in Understanding," by David Grayson. In the October Union Meeting a short talk on Poetry was given to stimulate reading and writing poetry and stories. The idea for this was gained from the August Magazine, "A Poem a Day Keeps Stagnation Away." Two original poems were read by the Stake Leader. The question of the two minute talks given by the Ward members on timely subjects for the purpose of bringing forward women and to develop them along the line of public speaking, especially to bring out the timid and foreign people who do not know our language was dwelt upon. Since busy mothers are likely to neglect the setting of the table properly, reasons why they should be careful were given and a discussion on the book read was engaged in.
Relief Society Books