[Vol20 | October 1933 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Editorial | Title: EditorialA Crying Need]
10 EDITORIAL A Crying Need THAT Has become of the intrepid spirit manifested by the pioneers?

Where do we today find the unyielding adherence to principle they manifested?

We are placing too high a value on money and are willing to sacrifice principles for gain.

The world is crying for leadership and leaders are not to be found.

"We tend to live for show, for the material things.

However able we start on the enterprise, we end by living on the surface of life instead of living in its deeps."' We talk much of the financial depression and try to devise ways and means to put money in circulation and furnish work for the unemployed, to rehabilitate broken down businesses, etc. These are necessary, but we are thinking too little about the appalling conditions that are everywhere manifested in character deterioration.

Our moral standards need fortifying, our resistance to evil needs strengthening.

All about us are men who do not seem to have the moral turpitude to do what they know to be right.

An employer of men recently asked the applicant if he smoked or drank.

He replied, "I do not smoke, but I drink a little.' "That will not do for us," answered the employer.

"We must have reliable men." "Well, I have been on the 'water wagon' for some time so you can depend on me," pleaded the applicant.

For one week all went well.

The man did his work very acceptably.

On Monday morning the employer was informed over the telephone that this man could not come to work.

He had had a sun stroke but he would probably be able to come about 11 o'clock.

He did not appear at his post until the next day.

Another was then filling his place.

He admitted that on Saturday night he had gone out with "the boys" and had become intoxicated.

He had lost a good position because he was not master of his appetite.

A wife and three children were dependent on him.

One can easily picture the Editor Assistant Manager Mary Connelly Kimball.

I Amy Brown Lyman EDITORIAL happiness and distress his weakness caused.

Another applicant when questioned said, "I do not drink, but I smoke." "What wages have you been receiving," asked the would-be employer.

"T started at $40.00 but was receiving $22.00 when I left." The manager of the store thought there must be something wrong and phoned to the former employer.

He found the story was true.
