VOL. NO. A Sie That Binds "And they came with haste and found Mary and Joseph and the babe lying in a manger" (Luke 2:16). THs family scene of father, mother, and child greeted the shepherds early on the morning of the first Christmas day. How appropriate that the succeeding Christmas celebrations down through the years have centered about the family. Most of the beloved traditions surrounding this holiday are directly concerned with the family observance of this day. Many people have been heard to say, "After all, Christmas is just for the children." But Christmas is also for the parents. Yuletide brings parents an opportunity to establish family traditions and customs that tie and bind the family group together. As children grow into adults, and the world, with its influences, intrudes with increasing force into their lives, very often it is the observance of a family Christmas tradition that strengthens the influence of a wholesome family and weakens the outside forces. Mothers are unusually busy at Christmas time, and it would be easy to exclude the children from many of the preparations they find exciting. The memory of a dear little grandmother making "curly gingerbread," by a recipe brought Page 230 from England in the early 1860's, cheerily singing an old English ballad "The Mistletoe Bough" to entertain and make happy the grandchildren clustered around her, has not only enriched each Christmas season for one woman, but has inspired her to try to adopt the virtues of an unusually fine and spiritual grandmother. A mother began, with her first child, a custom that has become dear to each child as he joined the family circle. On Christmas Eve, the very last thing before being tucked into bed, the mother and her children sit before the fireplace where the stockings are hung, and the mother reads the story of the birth of the Christ Child. Even the tiniest child, too young to understand the full import of the story, knows the pictures and knows that Christmas is celebrated not only because of Santa Claus, but more important because the birth of little "baby Jesus" is celebrated on that day. Yes, Christmas is for patents, as well as for children. Let this season of peace and good will make the Christmas celebration a tie to bind the family group together. G. R. G. Yn Memoriam Grace Elizabeth Pack Callis HE General Board of Relief Society and the membership in all the stakes and missions of the Church pay tribute at this time to an outstanding and greatly loved Latter-day Saint woman Grace Elizabeth Pack Callis. Sister Callis, wife of Elder Charles A. Callis, passed away October 12, 1946, at the age of seventy-three. Her life was filled with the satisfaction and happiness that come from devoted and unselfish service. A helpful and gifted wife, Sister Callis accompanied her husband on many of his missionary journeys, and, with him, spent nearly twenty-eight years in the Southern States Mission. There she organized and directed the activities of the Relief Societies and Young Women's Mutual Improvement Associations. She was an inspirational speaker, and her lovable personality attracted many sincere friends. After Brother Callis became an apostle, Sister Callis accompanied him on visits to ten missions, including the Hawaiian and the Japanese. She was the mother of eight children, six of whom were born in the South. She will long be remembered as an ideal woman who achieved a rich fulfillment of her life as a wife. Mother, and a faithful worker in the Church she loved.