[Vol42 | March 1955 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Article | Title: Why Happy]
WHY  NOT  BE  HAPPY? 
185 
Look  for  the  beauty  in  people. 
Every  person  on  earth  has  much  of 
beauty  in  him. 
But  to  find  real  happiness  you 
must  face  life  for  what  it  is.  You 
cannot  expect  to  have  a  life  free 
from  trouble.  Trouble  is  part  of 
life,  and  it  has  its  uses.  Each  person 
who  goes  through  great  trouble  and 
faces  it  comes  out  with  a  greater  ap- 
preciation of  life,  and  of  the  sing- 
ing happiness  in  just  an  ordinary, 
trouble-free  day.  Little  annoyances 
fade,  and  the  way  is  cleared  for  great 
happiness. 
Thank  God  for  your  great  bless- 
ings, and  let  the  minor  annoyances 
take  their  proper  place  in  the  back- 
ground. The  great  singing  happi- 
ness of  an  ordinary  day  is  too  won- 
derful to  be  missed. 
Facing  life  for  what  it  is  means 
facing  death,  too,  realizing  it  means 
a  continuance  of  our  life  which 
opens  up  wonderful  new  worlds  of 
happiness  for  each  one  who  has 
lived  righteously.  Accept  the  fact 
that  no  man  knows  when  his  last 
day  on  earth  may  be.  This  may  be 
it.  Look  death  full  in  the  face,  then 
live  each  day  as  full  of  happiness 
and  goodness  as  though  it  were  the 
last  you  had  to  spend.  Savor  the 
happiness  of  each  moment  with 
your  husband  and  children  and 
friends.  A  calm  acceptance  will 
surround  each  day  with  its  due 
glory. 
Take  each  worry  and  annoyance 
out  and  look  it  full  in  the  face.  Is 
it  important  enough  to  take  up  your 
time?  If,  like  most  troubles,  it  is  a 
little  one,  discard  it.  If  it  is  a  big 
one,  fill  your  life  as  full  as  possible 
with  service  which  will  bring  hap- 
piness and  smother  it  out. 
V{y inter  s  JLast  CJung 
Bernice  T.  Chxton 
Late  winter  smiled  and  promised  spring 
And  then  swirled  snow  on  everything. 
Down  from  the  north  an  icy  blast 
Ga\'e  proof  that  winter  had  not  passed; 
An  outraged  nature,  near  to  leaf, 
Rebelled  at  promises  so  brief. 
Great  branches  cracked  as  trees  bent  low 
And  snapped  beneath  their  weight  of  snow. 
Our  cat,  perched  on  a  snow-piled  rail, 
Switched  disapproval  with  her  tail, 
And  shook  wet  paws  as  if  to  state 
Her  great  disgust  with  snow  so  late. 

I Lature  s   Ujouquet 
Cecil  G.  Pugmire 
PEACEFUL  country  lane!  I  have  walked  your  path  so  many  times!     Would  that  I 
*■       could  share  your  soothing  balm  with  all  this  tired,  harassed  and  busy  world. 
I  drop  the  limp  wire  gate  and  drag  it  back  against  the  foaming,  spraying  headgate, 
guarded  over  by  gnarled  poplars  —  grandfathers  in  their  half-bald,  half-bewhiskered 
attire,  but  still  standing  in  erect  defiance  of  time,  wind,  and  sleet.  Whiffs  of  the 
pungent  bitterness  of  the  closely  knit  willow  trees  on  either  side  strike  and  sharpen  my 
nostrils  as  I  plod  my  way  through  the  deep  wagon-rutted  channels  of  the  dampened, 
weaving  lane.  Fresh  spears  of  timothy,  like  pastel  paint  splashed  against  deeper  greens, 
cling  to  the  enfolding  willow  branches,  telling  me  that  a  load  of  hay  has  but  recently 
pushed  its  way  down  the  narrow  lane.  A  scarlet-breasted  robin  flutters  low  from  the 
worm-laden,  spongy  ditch  where  last  night's  irrigation  stream  ran  rampant  to  the  meadows 
below.  Interspersed,  here  and  there,  between  the  graceful  willows,  the  full-blown  wild 
rose  flaunts  her  delicate  pink  blossoms  and  sends  dainty  perfume  to  mingle  with  the 
crisp  bitterness  of  the  willow. 
I  love  the  hollow  sound  of  the  rattling  planks  as  my  footsteps  reverberate  above  the 
brimming  ditch  beneath  the  bridge.  Here,  time  is  no  element — the  world  stands  still 
just  for  me — all  time  waits  just  for  me.  I  linger  to  watch  the  swirling  waters  carrying 
bits  of  flotsam  and  jetsam  from  unknown  regions  above  and  beyond — dried,  broken 
twigs,  loosened  moss,  a  farmer's  old  glove,  porcupine  quills.  A  speckled  trout  flashes 
her  brilliant  colors.  My  mesmeric  fascination  is  broken  as  a  baby  water  snake  slithers 
from  the  sodden  bank  and  plunges  into  the  pressing  stream  and  is  quickly  lost  to  sight. 
The  willows  drop  behind,  as  I  start  up  the  hill,  and  are  replaced  by  the  lopsided 
log  fence,  toppling  in  aged  abandon  as  if  leaning  for  support  one  log  against  the  other. 
The  one  rich,  sappy  brownness  of  the  logs  has  turned  to  brittle  silver.  The  lane  me- 
anders through  the  green  alfalfa,  where  bounties  of  butterflies  flit  from  blossom  to  blos- 
som, playing  hide-and-seek  with  the  honeybees  as  they  seek  golden  nectar  from  the 
blossom  cups.  The  coolness  and  the  greenness  slip  away  as  golden  sunflowers  rear  their 
beacon  faces  above  the  blue  sage  brush.  Bluebells,  with  their  stepsisters,  the  sticky 
aromatic  arnica,  hug  the  earth,  seeking  coolness  in  its  depths.  Up,  up,  I  climb,  around 
the  brow  of  the  hill,  where  small,  freshly  pawed  mounds  rise  like  tiny  pyramids  where 
the  squirrel  and  the  gopher  have  tunneled  their  underground  villages.  A  small,  beady- 
eyed  squirrel  slyly  pokes  his  head  above  his  mounded  home  and  watches  me  as  intently 
as  I  watch  him.    I  wink  an  eyelid!    He  is  gone. 
The  nearness  of  the  winding  lane  slowly  broadens  into  an  expanse  of  golden  yel- 
lows. Broad  fields  of  waving  dry-farm  wheat  crown  the  sloping  hills.  Soft  breezes  send 
the  grain  bowing  and  curtsying  in  ripples  of  amber  waves.  I  look  down — down  from 
whence  I  wandered.  In  the  valley  below  the  farm  houses  are  tiny  homesteads  sketched 
on  a  pastoral  painting — a  church,  a  schoolhouse,  and  then  I  sec — like  a  blue  satin  rib- 
bon spread  the  length  of  the  valley,  the  lake — Bear  Lake.  Blue,  like  the  azure  sky  so 
near  me,  then  clear  as  an  aquamarine  changing  next  to  the  greenest  of  emeralds,  she 
flaunts  her  fair}'  beauty  as  if  constantly  touched  by  a  magic  wand.  All  of  nature's  beauty 
God  has  gathered  together  into  a  beautiful  bouquet  and  bound  with  the  streamers  of 
the  blue  satin  bow  of  the  lake  below. 
Page  186 

Don  Knight 
MOUNT  TALAC,  CALIFORNIA 
Viewed  From  Lake  Tahoe 
1 1  La rch  S/n  te rluae 
Pansy e  H.  Powell 
This  is  the  quiet  time  before  earth  wakes — 
The  silent  hour  before  the  robin  sings. 
Now  overhead  the  beat  of  eager  wings 
Covers  the  stealthy  step  the  jonquil  takes 
Out  of  her  winter  dungeon  as  she  breaks 
The  crusty  earth.    Each  dewy  morning  brings 
A  greater  warmth,  recalling  other  things 
When  sun  jewels  crescented  on  frosty  lakes. 
Though  every  movement  nature  makes  is  slow, 
When  skies  are  clear  like  these  and  lupine-blue, 
No  one  can  question  what  the  end  will  be; 
For  underneath  the  calmness,  firm  and  low, 
There  beats  the  surge  of  life  arising  new, 
Strong  as  the  sun  and  constant  as  the  sea. 
Page  187 

Mother's  Baked  Apple 
EsteUe  Webb  Thomas 
THERE  was  a  loud  clatter  and 
a  muttered  exclamation  from 
the  kitchen.  I  shuddered  and 
braced  myself,  knowing  the  hard 
work  Tom  made  of  cooking.  Fd 
said  I  could  eat  only  a  piece  of  toast 
and  a  cup  of  cocoa  for  supper,  and 
he  seemed  to  be  tearing  the  house 
down  preparing  even  that.  Present- 
ly, he  shoved  the  bedroom  door 
open  and  came  in  with  a  tray.  He 
looked  so  funny,  so  tall  he  barely 
made  the  bedroom  door,  and  with 
his  face  so  flushed,  his  black  hair 
hanging  over  his  forehead,  one  of 
my  aprons  across  his  stomach  with 
the  strings  twisted  in  his  belt,  and 
the  little  tray  in  his  big  hands,  the 
cup  swaying  perilously  and  the  toast 
already  thoroughly  dunked,  that  I 
laughed. 
''What's  so  funny?''  Tom  planked 
himself  down  on  the  foot  of  the 
bed  and  a  wash  of  cocoa  stained  my 
nailhead  spread. 
''You  made  such  heavy  going  of 
a  cup  .  .  .  ."  I  peered  into  the  bit 
of  muddy  fluid  that  was  left,  and 
amended,  "a  half  cup  of  cocoa  and 
a  piece  of  toast!" 
Tom  and  I  had  always  kidded 
hard  and  boasted  we  could  take  it, 
but  now  he  glared. 
"And  just  why  wouldn't  it  be 
heavy  going,  when  you  have  to  crawl 
over  two  chairs  and  under  a  table 
to  make  a  piece  of  toast  around 
here?  Can't  you  arrange  the  kitch- 
en any  better  than  that?" 
"And  is  such  a  piece  of  toast 
worth  all  that  effort?"  I  drawled, 
glancing  at  the  poor  little  burnt 
offering,  sodden  with  cocoa.    "And 
Page  188 
whose  fault  is  it,  Tom  Thome,  that 
we  live  in  a  pint-sized  house  and 
have  to  be  contortionists  to  make  a 
piece  of  toast.  Is  it  my  fault  Fm 
lying  here  helpless  for  you  to  wait 
on?  If  Tommy  had  anywhere  else 
to  play,  Fd  never  have  stepped  on 
that  marble  .  .  .  ." 
But  Tom  grabbed  up  the  tray  and 
stalked  out,  without  another  word, 
banging  the  door  behind  him. 
Someway,  that  bang  reverberated 
clear  down  to  my  toes.  I  had  start- 
ed to  cry  with  self-pity,  but  Tom's 
set,  white  face  and  hurt  eyes  kept 
getting  in  front  of  the  pathetic  pic- 
ture of  myself  as  a  poverty-stricken, 
overworked  wife,  and  I  had  a  sink- 
ing feeling  that  maybe  Fd  said  too 
much.  I  knew  I  had  when  Tom 
didn't  come  in  to  kiss  and  make  up, 
as  he  always  had  done  before.  I  lay 
there  tensely,  waiting  for  his  step, 
mentally  preparing  my  defense;  but 
as  the  bedside  clock  ticked  off  a 
half  hour,  I  decided  to  be  sweet  and 
forgiving  when  Tom  returned. 
I  could  hear  Tommy's  prattle  as 
Tom  gave  him  his  supper,  and 
Tom's  low,  brief  replies.  No  laugh- 
ter, no  shouts  of  glee  from  Tommy, 
just  the  clatter  of  dishes  and  an 
occasional  exchange  of  words.  I 
began  to  feel  terribly  hollow  inside, 
and  not  alone  from  lack  of  food. 
Presently  I  heard  them  go  into  the 
bathroom  and  the  sound  of  running 
water. 
Later  the  door  opened  and  Tom- 
my shouted,  "Now  carry  me  in  to 
kiss  Mommy,  Daddy!" 
"Run  in  by  yourself,"  Tom  an- 
swered, and  Tommy  dashed  in  and