[Vol42 | March 1955 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Article | Title: Home | Author: Gardner]
[Home Laundering — Rhea H. Gardner]
Home  Laundering 
Rhea  H.  Gardner 
Extension   Service   Home   Management   and   Furnishings   Specialist, 
Utah  State  Agricultural  College 
THE     term     "blue     Monday''  that  has  been   made   in   providing 
arose    out    of    the    common  more    efficient    products    for    the 
practice  of  homemakers  do-  home  laundress,  but  they  must  be 
ing  the  family  wash   on   Monday,  bought    with    caution    and    under- 
With    the    meager   and    inefficient  standing,  if  progress  is  to  be  noted 
equipment  and  supplies  homemak-  in  the  final  results  of  their  use. 
ers  had  to  work  with,  there  is  no  Today's  home  laundress  will  do 
wonder  a  state  of  depression  settled  well  to  read  labels  and  follow  direc- 
over    the    homemakers    of    bygone  tions  with   great  care.     Measuring 
days  as  they  faced  their  laborious  devices  and  temperature  indicators 
task  of  doing  the  family  wash.  Truly  are  needed  just  as  much  today  in 
it  was  a  full  day  of  hard  work  for  the  laundry  room  as  in  the  kitchen, 
many  mothers.  Easier    washdays    and    fewer    gray 
While  women  in  general  were  washes  are  easily  attainable  with  cor- 
laboring,  often  without  the  help  of  rect  use  of  laundry  aids  now  avail- 
any  mechanical  aid,  to  free  clothes  able. 
of  soil,  there  were  men  and  women  By  far  the  most  important  laun- 
working  almost  as  energetically  in  dry  aid  is  a  good  cleanser  or  deterg- 
laboratories  to  discover  easier  and  ent.     Today  we  have  two  kinds  of 
more   efficient  ways   of   doing   the  detergents,  soap  and  soapless.  The 
task.     As  a  result  of  the  labors  of  latter  are  commonly  referred  to  as 
this  group,  much  of  the  worry  and  synthetic     detergents     or     syndets. 
hard  work  has  been  taken  out  of  Within  each  group  are   mild  and 
washday,  and  the  life  of  laundered  all-purpose  detergents.  The  first  are 
items  has  been  greatly  extended.  intended  to  remove  hght  soil  from 
Efficient  labor-saving  equipment  delicate  fabrics.  The  latter  are 
and  supplies  in  the  stores,  how-  heavy-duty  cleansers  intended  for 
ever,  are  just  part  of  the  solution  the  general  family  wash.  Great  dam- 
leading  toward  snowy  white  washes  age  may  result  from  using  a  cleanser 
done  with  a  minimum  expenditure  stronger  than  is  necessary.  Like- 
of  time  and  energy.  Equipment  wise,  washday  blues  are  almost  sure 
must  be  used  efficientlv.  Good  to  result  if  mild  cleansers  are  used 
work  habits  must  be  practiced  by  to  remove  deep  soil  from  cottons 
persons  doing  the  home  laundering  and  linens. 
before  ''blue  Mondays"  can  be  en-  Just  what   is   the   difference  be- 
tirely  forgotten.  tween  these  two  kinds  of  detergents, 
Kinds    and    varieties    of    laundry  soap  and  soapless,  and  how  can  they 
aids  seem  to  increase  almost  daily,  best  be  used?    These  are  questions 
Shoppers  wishing  to  make  the  best  many  are  asking, 
choice  for  their  particular  needs  are  Soap  is  an  efficient  and  economi- 
often  bewildered  as  they  view  the  cal  detergent  when  used  in  soft  or 
vast  array  now  available.  I'here  is  no  softened  water.    When  it  is  put  in- 
doubt  regarding  the  great  advance  to  hard  water,  free  minerals  in  the 
Page  180

HOME  LAUNDERING 
181 
water  mix  with  ingredients  in  the 
soap  to  form  a  scum.  By  adding 
more  and  more  soap,  the  scum  is 
eventually  dissolved,  but  it  is  ex- 
pensive to  use  soap  as  a  water  sof- 
tener. A  better  practice,  if  wash 
water  is  hard,  is  first  to  soften  the 
water,  and  when  the  softener  is  dis- 
solved, add  soap.  The  idea  that 
soaps  have  a  definite  advantage  over 
even  the  best  synthetic  detergent  for 
washing  clothes,  provided  that  the 
water  is  soft  or  softened,  is  not  with- 
out support  from  many  who  have 
done  extensive  research  in  this  field. 
Soaps  seem  to  have  the  ability  to  re- 
move dirt  that  syndets  just  won't 
get  out.  The  effectiveness  of  soap 
depends  on  maintenance  of  active 
suds  to  float  the  soil,  keeping  it 
from  settling  on  the  clothes.  Brok- 
en-down suds  permit  the  soil  to  col- 
lect on  fabrics,  thus  a  dingy  wash 
results. 
Syndets,  like  soap,  are  also  made 
from  oils,  but  they  are  treated  in  a 
much  different  way  and  are  much 
more  complex  in  their  chemistry.  In 
addition  to  fat,  general  purpose  syn- 
dets have  other  ingredients  added, 
such  as  water  softeners,  bleaches, 
fluorescent  dyes,  ordinary  bluing, 
and  products  that  will  protect  metal 
parts  of  the  washing  machine.  The 
big  advantage  in  the  use  of  syndets 
is  that  they  can  be  used  successfully 
in  either  hard  or  soft  water.  While 
they  will  completely  dissolve  in  cold 
water,  they,  like  soap,  clean  best  in 
hot  water  (140°  to  i6o°F),  a  tem- 
perature too  hot  for  your  hands.  A 
good  two-inch  suds  is  important  for 
good  performance.  Too  much  or 
too  little  will  minimize  the  cleans- 
ing power,  therefore,  it  is  wise  to 
use  the  least  amount  of  detergent 
that  will  do  the  work. 
Don't  change  from  one  detergent 
to  another  every  washday  or  so,  and 
never  mix  detergents.  Washday 
blues  await  if  you  start  a  wash  with 
one  brand,  then  add  another  one  to 
the  same  wash  water. 
npHE  removal  of  soil  from  clothes 
is  just  one  part  of  the  laundry 
process.  A  thorough  rinsing  of 
clothes  is  likewise  important.  If 
wash  water  is  hard,  soften  the  first 
rinse,  at  least,  for  it  is  in  the  first 
rinse  that  scum  causes  most  trouble. 
If  the  conventional  washer  is  used, 
lift  clothes  up  and  down  in  the  rinse 
water  several  times  before  putting 
them  through  the  wringer.  Mini- 
mize wrinkles  in  clothes  by  putting 
them  through  the  wringer  as  smooth 
as  possible.  Sheets,  towels,  and  un- 
derclothing are  almost  wrinkle  free 
when  dry,  if  care  is  taken  to  elimi- 
nate unnecessary  wrinkles  earlier. 
The  sale  of  bleaches  has  greatly 
increased  during  the  past  few  years. 
A  bleach  is  a  poor  substitute  for  a 
good  washing,  but  it  is  frequently 
necessary.  If  a  bleach  is  used  in 
proper  amounts  and  thoroughly 
rinsed  out  of  clothes  before  they  are 
dried,  very  little,  if  any,  damage  is 
done. 
Chlorine  bleaches  are  fast  acting 
and  are  safe  to  use  on  white  and 
colorfast  cottons.  Sodium  perbor- 
ate bleaches  are  designed  for  use  on 
synthetic  fabrics.  They  can  safely  be 
used  on  all  fabrics,  but,  because  of 
their  comparative  mild,  slow  action, 
they  are  not  recommended  for  cot- 
tons. All  bleaches  increase  in  ef- 
ficiency with  increase  in  water  tem- 
perature up  to  that  recommended 
for  general  washing.  In  every  in- 
stance instructions  that  appear  on 
the  label   should   be   carefully   fol-