[Vol42 | March 1955 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: A Great | Author: Powers]
[A Great Tradition—The American National Red Cross — Edwin H. Powers]
phere of  great  cities.  Much  of  our  population  shifts  back  and  forth  across 
the  country,  hardly  finding  time  to  get  acquainted  with  new  neighbors. 
The  protective  unity  of  families  is  weakened  as  individual  members  scatter 
from  the  home  community. 
But  people  have  not  changed.  In  time  of  trouble,  they  need  assur- 
ance that  they  are  not  alone.  To  help  provide  this  assurance,  millions  of 
Americans  turn  to  their  Red  Cross.  Because  they  join  and  serve,  they 
are  able  to  extend  a  friendly  hand  to  those  who  most  need  help. 
We  see  that  help  in  the  millions  of  pints  of  blood  freely  given  through 
the  Red  Cross  for  those  who  would  die  without  it.  We  see  it  when  a  New 
England  fisherman  who  lost  his  boat  in  a  hurricane  is  given  another  so  he 
can  earn  a  living  for  his  family.  We  see  it  in  emergency  help  to  the  family 
of  a  serviceman  who  is  away  from  home. 
When  the  Red  Cross  answers  the  call  of  those  in  need,  Americans  keep 
alive  one  of  our  great  traditions— friendly,  neighborly  help  to  our  fellow 
men. 
This  is  an  annual  appeal  for  good  will  and  help.  Join  the  Red  Cross 
and  answer  the  1955  call  to  service.

Q)ight^-(cJne    ijears  J^go 
Excerpts  From  the  Woman  s  Exponent,  March   i,  and  March  15,  1873 
"For  the  Rights  of  the  Women  of  Zion  and  the  Rights  of  the 
Women  of  All  Nations" 
Note:  The  heading  "Eighty-One  Years  Ago"  is  substituted  this  month  for  the  regular 
title  "Sixty  Years  Ago/'  since  no  issues  of  the  Woman's  Exponent  were  pub- 
lished during  the  month  of  March  1894.  ^^^^  Woman's  Exponent  began  publi- 
cation in  June  1872,  and  the  following  excerpts  are  from  the  issue  of  the  fol- 
lowing March. 
A  UTAH  LADIES'  JOURNAL:  The  women  of  Utah  to-day  occupy  a  position 
which  attracts  the  attention  of  intelligent  thinking  men  and  women  everywhere.  They 
are  engaged  in  the  practical  solution  of  some  of  the  greatest  social  and  moral  problems 
of  the  age  ....  Who  are  so  well  able  to  speak  for  the  women  of  Utah  as  the  women 
of  Utah  themselves?  "It  is  better  to  represent  ourselves  than  to  be  misrepresented  by 
others."  For  these  reasons,  and  that  women  may  help  each  other  by  the  diffusion  of 
knowledge  and  information  possessed  by  many  and  suitable  to.  all,  the  publication  of 
Woman's  Exponent,  a  journal  owned  by,  controlled  by  and  edited  by  Utah  ladies,  has 
been  commenced  ....  Utah,  in  its  Female  Relief  Societies,  has  the  best  organized 
benevolent  institution  of  the  age  ....  Miss  Eliza  R.  Snow,  President  of  the  entire 
Female.  Relief  Societies,  cordially  approves  of  the  journal,  and  will  be  a  contributor  to 
it  as  she  has  leisure  from  her  numerous  duties  .... 
— Louise  L.  Greene,  Editor 
FLORENCE 
Beneath  high,  villa-dotted  hills 
That  in  succession  rise 
Like  rich  gemm'd  parapets  around; 
The  lovely  Florence  lies. 
The  Arno,  broad  and  gentle  stream, 
That  flows  meand'ring  through. 
Divides,  but  in  unequal  parts, 
The  city  platt  in  two  .... 
I  see  you,  Florence,  all  the  while. 
So  beautiful  and  gay; 
I  ask,  is  this  your  common  dress, 
Or,  this  your  holiday?  .  .  . 
— Eliza  R.  Snow 
From  Florence,  Italy 
ADVERTISEMENT:  H.  Wallace  has  the  best,  largest  and  purest  stock  of  con- 
fectionary in  Salt  Lake  City.     Just  the  place  for  ladies  to  purchase. 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  IN  TOOELE:  I  believe  our  Society  in  Tooele  can  compare 
favorably  with  that  of  any  other  settlement.  It  is  now  nearly  three  years  since  we  were 
organized,  and  we  have  been  trying  ever  since  to  do  our  best.  We  have  excellent  meet- 
ings.   The  sisters  are  alive  to  their  duties,  and  I  believe  will  accomplish  much  good  .... 
— Mrs.  Mary  Meiklejohn,  President 
Page  166

Woman's  Sphere 
Ramona  W.  Cannon 
jyrARJORIE  M.  McKINLEY  has 
been  awarded  the  1954  Mary 
Swartz  Rose  fellowship  by  the 
American  Dietetic  Association  for 
her  outstanding  success  as  a  teach- 
er and  administrator  in  the  field  of 
institution  management.  She  is  the 
author  of  numerous  publications  on 
food  costs,  meal  planning,  and  nu- 
trition. She  will  continue  her 
graduate  work  toward  the  degree  of 
Doctor  of  Philosophy  in  Institution 
Management  and  Home  Economics 
Education  at  Iowa  State  College. 
"liT'OMEN  are  playing  a  growing 
role  in  the  field  of  medical  re- 
search—a fact  that  was  recently 
underscored  when  the  Life  Insur- 
ance Medical  Research  Fund  award- 
ed a  total  of  more  than  $31,000  in 
grants  and  fellowships  for  heart 
disease  research  to  half  a  dozen 
women  in  1954. 
VIRGINIA  CROCIIERON  GIL- 
^  DERSLEEVE,  former  Dean  of 
Barnard  College,  student  of  inter- 
national affairs,  and  the  only  woman 
appointed  by  President  Roosevelt  to 
the  United  Nations  delegation  at 
the  San  Francisco  Conference,  re- 
lates in  Many  a  Good  Crusade,  the 
story  of  her  ideals  and  accomplish- 
ments in  the  ''educational  liberation 
of  w^omen.'* 
npHE  National  Council  of  Jewish 
Women  began  a  "golden  age" 
program  in  1946,  to  enrich  the  lives 
of  elderly  people  —  to  prevent  their 
later  years  from  becoming  "an 
empty  thing  and  a  burden  of  mean- 
ingless days."  In  1800  the  average 
life  expectancy  in  the  United  States 
was  thirty-five  years;  in  1900,  forty- 
five;  today,  seventy.  There  are  now 
ten  million  Americans  over  sixty- 
five,  and  sixteen  million  past  sixty. 
pRINCESS  MARGARET  of 
Great  Britain  in  February  made 
a  month-long  tour  of  the  romantic 
West  Indies,  flying  in  a  stratocruiser 
to  the  Caribbean  as  a  representative 
of  the  Crown. 
OIRTHDAY  congratulations  are 
extended  to:  Mrs.  Anna  Sten- 
quist,  Tremonton,  Utah,  one  hun- 
dred; Mrs.  Melissa  Ann  Wells  Dial, 
Willard,  Utah,  ninety-nine;  Mrs. 
Olena  M.  Larsen,  Moroni,  Utah, 
ninety-five;  Mrs.  Bertha  Olsen,  Hy- 
rum,  Utah,  Mrs.  Esther  Jane  Tol- 
man  Sessions,  Syracuse,  Utah,  Mrs. 
Ann  Evans,  Winnipeg  Canada, 
Mrs.  Ann  Barrus  Layton  Jones,  Salt 
Lake  City,  ninety-two;  Mrs.  Jose- 
phine Gibson,  Tremonton,  Utah, 
ninety-one;  Mrs.  Jennie  W.  Magle- 
by,  Mrs.  Jessie  Richardson  Thoma- 
sen,  and  Mrs.  Josephine  Erickson 
Halverson,  all  of  Salt  Lake  City,  and 
each  ninety  years  old. 
Page  167