[Vol42 | March 1955 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: Womans | Author: Cannon]
[Woman's Sphere — Ramona W. Cannon]
LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
143 
livelihood  by  any  lawful  calling;  to  pur- 
sue any  livelihood  or  vocation — that  is, 
calling,  occupation,  profession,  or  employ- 
ment; and  to  enter  into  all  contracts 
necessary  and  proper  in  carrying  out  these 
rights. 
Questions  on  the  Lesson 
1.  Why  was  the  income  tax  unlawful 
before  the  Sixteenth  Amendment? 
2.  How   did   the  Seventeenth   Amend 
ment  affect   the   election   of   Senators   of 
the  United  States? 
3.  Has  any  Amendment  to  the  Consti- 
tution ever  been  repealed?  Which  one? 
4.  May  the  states  determine  the  qualifi- 
cations of  voters  under  the  Nineteenth 
Amendment? 
5.  By  what  popular  name  is  the 
Twentieth  Amendment  known? 
6.  What  event  brought  about  the  adop- 
tion of  the  Twenty-Second  Amendment? 
Jrintid( ote 
Catherine  E.  Berry 
My  house  has  never  been  so  clean, 
My  floors  so  shiny  bright. 
Each  shelf  and  cabinet  primly  neat, 
No  clutter  left  in  sight. 
This  is  no  sudden  urge  to  be 
Domestic  on  my  part, 
But  just  a  woman's  way  to  numb 
The  pain  within  her  heart. 
Vi/i titer  Jifte rnoon 
Christie  Lund  Coles 
Here  is  a  hushed,  brief  moment 
Of  gray  and  timeless  weather; 
The  sky  is  like  a  speckled  mare 
Held  ominously  at  tether; 
The  earth  is  like  a  charcoal  scene 
Erom  a  children's  picture  book; 
The  air  is  as  cool  as  the  crystal 
Caught  in  last  summer's  brook. 
The  snow  is  like  the  silken  fluff 
From  a  milkweed  pod,  new-broken, 
As  it  falls  in  exclamation  points 
Where  winter  has  spoken. 
THE  WORLD'S   FINEST 
PIANOS 
Mason  &  Hamlin 
The  Stradivari  of  Pianos 
EVERETT 
Finest  Toned  Spinet  Piano  Built 
Cable  -  Nelson 
finest  Low  Priced  Piano  Built 
All  Obtainable  At 
Beesley  Musk  Co. 
Pioneer  Piano  People 
70  S.   MAIN   ST.        SALT  LAKE  CITY,   UTAH 
It^s  awaiting 
You  . . . 
1  ll  b  there  is  still  a  tremendous  amount 
of  outstanding  instruction  and  use  await- 
ing you  in  this  and  other  copies  of  the 
Relief  Society  Magazine.  Your  editions 
may  be  handsomely  bound  at  the  West's 
finest  bindery  and  printing  plant  for  $2.50 
cloth  bound  and  $3.50  leather  bound  per 
volume  plus  postage  for  mail  orders.  Fol- 
low these  postage  rates  if  you  send  your 
order  by  mail: 
Distance  from 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah  Rate 
Up  to  150  miles    35 
150  te    300  miles   39 
300  to    600  miles   45 
600  to  1000  miles    54 
1000  to  1400  miles   64 
1400  to  1800  miles   76 
Over  1800  miles    87 
Leave  them  at  our  conveniently  loca- 
ted uptown  office. 
Deseret  News  Press 
31  Richards  St.       Salt  Lake  City  1,  Utah    ^^ 
Phone  4-2581  AQ

M 
K Lama  s  Lrlants 
Klea.  Evans  Woisley 
AMA  had  a  way  with  plants. 
As  soon-  as  the  contents  of  a  lard  bucket  had  been  made  into  flalcy  apple  pies,  bak- 
ing powder  biscuits,  or  peach  cobblers,  Mama  punched  some  holes  in  the  bottom,  put 
in  small  pebbles,  and  then  filled  it  with  rich  loam  from  under  the  Saginaw  pine  tree  by 
the  dining-room  window.  Next,  she  tenderly  broke  off  a  piece  of  one  of  the  geraniums 
in  the  front-room  window,  or  the  coleus,  whose  brilliant  colors  brightened  the  winter 
days  in  the  kitchen.  It  seemed  that  all  she  did  was  stick  the  new  shoots  unconcernedly 
into  the  dirt,  but  they  always  took  root  and  grew.  This  went  on  and  on  until  every 
window  sill  in  the  house  was  full  of  plants  in  various  stages  of  growth.  No  one  ever 
knew  why  they  flourished  so  under  her  care,  except  we  all  knew  she  sort  of  loved  them 
along. 
Mama  enjoyed  sharing  her  plants.  Whenever  one  of  the  children  in  the  valley 
was  ill  and  had  to  be  in  bed  for  a  long  time.  Mama  took  a  small  can  and  planted  a 
child-size  plant,  covered  the  can  with  gay  tissue  carefully  saved  from  the  Christmas 
package,  and  left  it  at  the  bedside  where  a  restless  child  might  watch  it  grow.  If  we 
had  company,  and  one  of  the  ladies  admired  the  plants,  or  even  hinted  that  she  would 
like  a  "start,"  mama's  face  beamed  with  happiness,  and  nothing  would  do  but  she 
would  wrap  a  generous  cutting  in  a  damp  cloth,  and  put  that  in  a  paper  cone  made 
from  a  page  of  the  Valley  Independent.  We  never  could  see  that  the  plants  seemed 
to  mind  such  pruning.  In  fact,  two  or  three  branches  always  shot  up  where  one  had 
been  before. 
Great-Aunt  Mattie  was  quite  good  with  plants,  too.  Her  husband,  Great-Uncle 
Homer  had  more  money  than  Papa,  and  Aunt  Mattie  brought  "boughten"  plants  home 
from  town,  plants  that  had  flowers  on  them  almost  as  pretty  as  those  in  the  seed 
catalogues. 
Whenever  Aunt  Mattie  came  to  our  house  she  hardly  had  her  coat  off  before  she 
went  around  poking  her  pudgy  fingers  into  the  dirt  around  the  plants  and  saying: 
''M'liss,  this  scented  geranium  is  drooping  a  little,  don't  you  think?"  or  "The  bloom 
on  your  Martha  Washington  geranium  isn't  quite  as  large  as  it  was  last  year,  is  it, 
M'liss?" 
No  one  dared  ask  Great-Aunt  Mattie  for  a  start  of  her  plants.  She  let  it  be  known 
that  she  wasn't  running  a  nursery  for  anybody,  and  if  people  wanted  plants  they  could 
buy  them  like  she  did.  Papa  said  that  if  the  President  of  the  United  States  himself  asked 
Mattie  for  a  start  of  her  commonest  geranium  she  would  turn  him  down.  Once  Aunt  Sar- 
ah snipped  off  a  piece  of  the  salmon-colored  geranium  when  Great-Aunt  Mattie  wasn't 
looking,  and  hid  it  up  her  sleeve.  But  somehow,  when  she  was  at  the  door  saying 
goodbye,  it  fell  down  right  at  Great-Aunt  Mattie's  feet.  They  didn't  speak  for  over  a 
year  after  that. 
Well,  they  are  both  gone  now,  but  we  seldom  go  to  any  of  the  homes  in  the  val- 
ley without  seeing  one  of  Mama's  plants  blooming  on  a  window  sill. 
Yes,  Mama  had  a  way  with  plants. 
Page  144

Write   or   Phone 
VIDA  FOX  CLAWSON 
966  East  South  Temple 
Telephone  4-2017 
about  the   following: 
EUROPE  1955 
$719 
EARLY  RESERVATIONS  NECESSARY 
and 
HAWAII 
$315 
Program  for  Historic  Train  will  be  out 
as  soon  as  a  definite  date  for  the 
Cumorah  Pageant  has  been   set. 
FOR 
PRIMARY  SUPPLIES 
FAMILY  RECORDS 
STATIONERY 
GIFTS 
ITS 
LiunJb/wJuiL 
24     EAST     BROADWAY 
SALT     LAKE     CITY,     UTAH 
THREE  PART 
for 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  CHORUSES 
Beside  Still  Waters— Hamblen    20 
Bless  This  House — Brahe    16 
Hold    Thou    My    Hand — Briggs      20 
If  Ye  Love  Me,  Keep  My 
Commandments — Madsen     20 
Just   For  To-day — Seaver    20 
King   of  Glory — Parks     20 
Let  the  Mountains  Shout  For 
Joy — Stephens       15 
Lord's    Prayer — Gates      20 
My  Redeemer  Lives — Gates    20 
Thanks  Be  To  God — Dickson    16 
Music  Sent  on  Approval 
Use  this  advertisement  as  your  order  blank 
DAYNES  MUSIC  COMPANY 
45-47  Souh  Main 
Salt  Lake  Ciy  1,  Utah 
Please  send  the  music  indicated  above. 
D  On  Approval         n  Charge 
□  Money  Enclosed 
Name    
 
Address      
City  &  State 
aqnes  IHusic    | 
Ml 
145  NORTH  UNIVERSITY.  PROVOV'2260  WASHINGTON  BIVD,0(5C>£N