[Vol42 | March 1955 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Eighty-One]
[Eighty-One Years Ago —]
Q)ight^-(cJne    ijears  J^go 
Excerpts  From  the  Woman  s  Exponent,  March   i,  and  March  15,  1873 
"For  the  Rights  of  the  Women  of  Zion  and  the  Rights  of  the 
Women  of  All  Nations" 
Note:  The  heading  "Eighty-One  Years  Ago"  is  substituted  this  month  for  the  regular 
title  "Sixty  Years  Ago/'  since  no  issues  of  the  Woman's  Exponent  were  pub- 
lished during  the  month  of  March  1894.  ^^^^  Woman's  Exponent  began  publi- 
cation in  June  1872,  and  the  following  excerpts  are  from  the  issue  of  the  fol- 
lowing March. 
A  UTAH  LADIES'  JOURNAL:  The  women  of  Utah  to-day  occupy  a  position 
which  attracts  the  attention  of  intelligent  thinking  men  and  women  everywhere.  They 
are  engaged  in  the  practical  solution  of  some  of  the  greatest  social  and  moral  problems 
of  the  age  ....  Who  are  so  well  able  to  speak  for  the  women  of  Utah  as  the  women 
of  Utah  themselves?  "It  is  better  to  represent  ourselves  than  to  be  misrepresented  by 
others."  For  these  reasons,  and  that  women  may  help  each  other  by  the  diffusion  of 
knowledge  and  information  possessed  by  many  and  suitable  to.  all,  the  publication  of 
Woman's  Exponent,  a  journal  owned  by,  controlled  by  and  edited  by  Utah  ladies,  has 
been  commenced  ....  Utah,  in  its  Female  Relief  Societies,  has  the  best  organized 
benevolent  institution  of  the  age  ....  Miss  Eliza  R.  Snow,  President  of  the  entire 
Female.  Relief  Societies,  cordially  approves  of  the  journal,  and  will  be  a  contributor  to 
it  as  she  has  leisure  from  her  numerous  duties  .... 
— Louise  L.  Greene,  Editor 
FLORENCE 
Beneath  high,  villa-dotted  hills 
That  in  succession  rise 
Like  rich  gemm'd  parapets  around; 
The  lovely  Florence  lies. 
The  Arno,  broad  and  gentle  stream, 
That  flows  meand'ring  through. 
Divides,  but  in  unequal  parts, 
The  city  platt  in  two  .... 
I  see  you,  Florence,  all  the  while. 
So  beautiful  and  gay; 
I  ask,  is  this  your  common  dress, 
Or,  this  your  holiday?  .  .  . 
— Eliza  R.  Snow 
From  Florence,  Italy 
ADVERTISEMENT:  H.  Wallace  has  the  best,  largest  and  purest  stock  of  con- 
fectionary in  Salt  Lake  City.     Just  the  place  for  ladies  to  purchase. 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  IN  TOOELE:  I  believe  our  Society  in  Tooele  can  compare 
favorably  with  that  of  any  other  settlement.  It  is  now  nearly  three  years  since  we  were 
organized,  and  we  have  been  trying  ever  since  to  do  our  best.  We  have  excellent  meet- 
ings.   The  sisters  are  alive  to  their  duties,  and  I  believe  will  accomplish  much  good  .... 
— Mrs.  Mary  Meiklejohn,  President 
Page  166