[Vol42 | March 1955 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: Why | Author: Happy]
But she was always sort of ashamed to talk about it. Ma was a proud woman. And whenever she had a hurt she buried it. 'That's why she had the sea chest built into the attic. It arrived from England just when the rafters were going up. It's all she ever got out of her parents' estate." The inspector looked doleful, and 173 shook his head. "It doesn't look like it's locked," he ventured. "Looks like the padlock has been chiseled in two." "As I remember the story, they never even sent the key,' Aunt Elon said. "But, like I say, there was never much talk about it. You can open it, if you want to.' It's no skeleton in my closet." Aunt Elon had pulled herself up onto the solid old beams now, and the inspector helped her to pick her way over to the old chest. After a few jostling tugs the hinges creaked and the lid came loose. The inspector bent for long seconds while his flashlight probed over the contents. "Well, Pll be hornswoggled!" he exclaimed at last. Aunt Elon said, "Like I told you —that's all she ever got." I' was fifteen years after they'd put in the electricity that Aunt Elon wrote to me and told me about the supermarket people and the lawyer. She put up a lot of bluster, but, as she said in her letter, she was eighty-five now, and she probably had passed her prime, and if I'd come and help her with the dismantling, she guessed she'd give in. 'They'd promised her a sum that would keep her in comfort for the rest of her life and bury her in style, she said. And it was time to begin to think about those things. Besides, a nice new supermarket would be a pretty addition to the neighborhood. It was a sign of progress. So I went out to help her with disposing of her things. It was just before I was married. There's a lot of sentiment in an 174 old house. Love and life and death all leave their traces. You find them in the fingerprints between the layers of wallpaper. You find them folded away in yellowed linen in the bottom of deep drawers. You find them in button boxes, and especially in old albums. I never saw my grandmother. She died about the time I was born. Aunt Elon was the oldest and my mother was the youngest of her children. But it gave her a definite texture and substance when I found a braid of her black-brown hair in a remote place in an old trunk. I held it up to my own. It matched exactly. Everyone always said I was the 'spittin' image" of Grandmother. "Ma felt disgraced when they cut it off,' Aunt Elon informed me. "She respected the scripture that says a woman's hair is her glory. But there was an epidemic of scarlet fever, and Ma had to give up her glory along with the others. She said she guessed she would have died, if she could have reconciled herself to being put away without her hair. She simply had to live until it grew out again." THE task of sorting and moving Aunt Elon's possessions took longer than we had thought. I guess we talked too much. She had to tell me the history of each piece in the patchwork quilt. She was so full of history herself. She told me about her old beaux, and the dances at Social Hall, and there was always a glove or a scrap of brocade or a tortoise-shell fan to illustrate the story.