[Vol42 | March 1955 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: And Now | Author: Williams]
[And Now It's Spring Again! — Helen S. Williams]

s Jesus Christ. Yes, I go to Relief Society, come what may. May I call for you next Tuesday? What Js Youth? Vesta Ball Ward You answer. Youth is impetuousness, hurry, Clothed in vibrant shades of red, Striped with rush. Shadows chasing self, Vainly seeking realness in shadowy future, Distant past; Too busy to peek between the pages of today's reality; Too busy. To taste the present pleasure Or savor the sweetness of now. Too occupied seeking life, too frantic, Too busy, always too busy. Let the panorama slip by, While frantically You seek that indefinable Something that is not found, Though sought, In hectic disquietude. A sage seeketh such in quiet thought, in still depths, In tranquility, repose, and solemn contemplation. Youth knows not of such treasures, Hidden only by the veil of the mind. For only time, so little respected, can painfully teach. Only time, relentless in scope and depth and sameness, With cutting edge and sharp surety, need reprimand. So what is youth? Nothing more than youngness, That soon is tempered or broken in the maw Of aching search. What is age? You answer. Age is youth, softened by time, Mellowed by the ceaseless flow and surge Of that which it pleases us to name Experience. low, rm the Swilight of Ny Life Artemesia R. Romney A S I walked along the crowded sidewalk of a large city one cold, dreary day (the year was December 1936), it seemed there were no love or friends left in all the world.. Now that I was widowed there was nothing to live for any more. Suddenly, as I passed a spacious store window, a beautiful oil painting attracted my attention and "held me spellbound for some time. I forgot my sorrow, for the moment, as I studied the work of art. The sun in the picture was just breaking with new light. As I observed it more closely, a thrill ran through me and seemed to fill my soul with new life and beauty. I said to myself, "There is no reason why I can't do something like that, paintings that would give joy and happiness and cheer up those who are sad. Everyone needs a hobby as she grows older to keep her mind bright and alert. Mine will be painting." We all feel the need of self-expression, and it is very necessary for our well-being. Anything that we create with our hands gives us a thrill and helps us to see the beauty around us and to express our personality. The poet said that all the good we send into the lives of others comes back into our own. We might also say that all the beauty we send into the homes of others comes back into our own and gives us happiness and comfort, for a thing of beauty is a joy forever. Emily Dickinson once said: If I can stop one heart from breaking, I shall not live in vain; If I can ease one life the aching, Page 164 Or cool one pain, Or help one fainting robin Unto his nest again, I shall not live in vain. I was determined to do something that would help someone to see the beauty of life. As I proceeded to work on my chosen hobby, I found many difficulties to surmount. One of the hardest was to get registered at the university and get started among all those young students, but finally I succeeded and became so interested in my classes that everything took on new life and beauty.