[Vol42 | March 1955 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Go | Author: Brenden]
[Go, Relief Society — Neil B. Brenden]

She left him slightly shaken and all tied up on the divan while she made a tour of her small castle. 151 Geordy was sweetly, cleanly asleep in his crib; the dishes were in their proper cupboards; even the sink was washed and the dishcloth wrung dry. Joanna sighed ecstatically. The second time, George was thoughtful. "How long," he asked carefully, as dinner again neared a precipitate close for Joanna, "'does this class go on?" "Nine weeks, two hours a night, every Monday at seven," Joanna smiled, while she stripped off her beruffled apron, smoothed down her skirt, and prepared to kiss her family goodbye again. "Tonight we're going to do leg bandages and wounds." "Wounds, hon? Shall I send an ambulance around for you?" Outside the horn sounded, Joanna laughed. "Oh, I'm over that! There's Marge. "Bye!" With Geordy in his arms, George followed her to the door. Marge grinned and shook her red head at him. "Isn't this something?" she trebled. "I've always wanted to dash off to the wars, leaving the little man at home!" George grinned bravely _ back. "Ours to worry and to wait!" He flinched as the tires gripped the asphalt and got away with a squeal. A little frown seamed his eyebrows together. "Your mother," he told his egg-smeared son, "is not that strong a character." He was right. She came home blanched and shaking. Marge brought her in. "Just let her lie down for awhile," she said. "She'll be all right. Little squeamish, that's all." George scowled. "She never could 152 stand the sight of blood. She can't even stand talking about it. This is the end of first aid here!"' Marge backed out the front door and escaped. George laid Joanna on the divan and put a cold cloth on her head. After awhile she opened her eyes and smiled weakly at him. "IT should put my head down by my knees," she murmured. "Keep me from fainting. I'll be all right in a few minutes." "Sure, sure," George "Better talk bandages." "You shouldn't ever use a tourniquet, except as a last resort," she said faintly. "But if you do, mark a IT on the victim's forehead with your lipstick." "I will," George promised. She swallowed. "You know, this is plain silly." "I'm glad you realize it," George exploded. "Well, you tried." "IT mean giving in to it like this!" She sat up and jerked the wet cloth from her head. "Anyway, we just talked about it. After all, what's b—blood?" She stood up, shoulders square — momentarily. Then she wilted. ""Let's go to bed, huh?" soothed. HE third Monday night, there was a battle. "Of course I'm going." Joanna's blue eyes were never surer. ""Tonight we learn artificial respiration. You have to have artificial respiration to pass the course!" "I'll have to have it, if you pass the course!" She looked levelly at him. "That's nonsense. We'll both be glad some day that I didn't give up. Why, suppose Geordy got hurt, bad. Her face went white at the thought. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1955 "Look, honey." George was holding his temper by a small, serrated thread. "Dr. Peterson's office is in the next block, a fire station and a hospital within four. Do you really think it's a matter of life or death that you rush off like mad to learn to tie square knots? You can get that from my old scout book!" Joanna's eyes blazed blue fire to meet the smoke in his. "In case of disaster." "Disaster! Disaster! All I hear is disaster!" he shouted. "Are you trying to scare everybody silly? How about a little peace at home, for a change?" "You don't have to wash the dishes, George," she said with dignity. "And I can bathe Geordy before I go. 'That's what is really bothering you, isn't it?" George knew when he_ was whipped—temporarily. But he was a tenacious person by nature, and personal injuries to his masculine pride could be laughed off only so long. Though he pushed Joanna out the door when Marge honked, though he washed the dishes in ten minutes flat (breaking only two plates and a brown pottery bowl), though he bathed Geordy and put him into his crib and kissed him goodnight, he rumbled like Mauna Loa all the time. And with his domestic duties scrupulously completed, he erupted down the block to compare outraged notes with Marge's husband. AN Johnson hadn't made such good time as George. He still wore one of Marge's aprons like a postage stamp on his vast front. "Don't fight it, boy." His huge frame shook with laughter. "The SURVIVAL UNDER PROTEST little women thrive on opposition. And it won't last. They'll get tired of it in a coupla weeks. Specially Marge. She isn't the crusading type." "Joanna is," George mumbled glumly. "And she's obsessed with the idea there's going to be a disaster—on a magnificent scale—and we must be prepared!" But even George didn't realize the significance of his own words. Not then. Not, in fact, until the night he came home from work to find his fishing equipment, creels, reels, bait and all, stacked in neat piles on -the back lawn, together with the two old tires he'd been saving almost a year now. Premonition hit him a low blow. He put his head in the door of what he had always fondly regarded as his own province, the little cubbyhole between the furnace and laundry. 'There was nothing left of all the familiar clutter of precious old hats, half-built wagons for Geordy, or assorted items of toolcraft. It was stark and bare, and the walls smelled faintly of disinfectant. Joanna was busily scrubbing the floor. "It's very sweet of you, honey, to clean out my work room, but it wasn't really necessary to fumigate," he said warily. Joanna pushed back a stray lock of hair with a grimy wrist. "This," she announced proudly, "is our Survival Room." "Our what?" he yelled. "When it's finished it will hold food, clothing, bedding, first-aid supplies. "Stop!" But he knew she couldn't. It 153 was like flying in the face of a tidal wave. That's why he found himself, during odd moments in the next few weeks, nailing shelves along the walls, lugging in folding cots, fashioning a rather fine clothes closet in one corner. The neighbors began dropping in to admire his work. "Why, you're quite a carpenter, boy," big Dan Johnson rumbled. "LT almost wish Marge had got steamed up to make me do this. Snug little spot you've got here." George accepted the praises woodenly. S the green of spring ripened into crisp, golden autumn, so the barrenness of the Survival Room blossomed into plenty. Like magic, cans and bottles appeared on the paper-lined shelves—the magic of a robbed kitchen budget, George thought morosely.