[Vol7 | May 1920 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: On the Watch Tower]
On  Th&/atchJower 
James  H.  Andeison. 
Ireland  was  in  such  a  state  of  ferment  during  March  as 
to  be  bordering  upon  civil  war. 
Severe   storms   during  March   did   much   damage   in   the 
north  central  part  of  the  United  States. 
Railways  in  the  United  States  were  returned  to  the  own- 
ers on  March  1,  to  the  satisfaction  of  shippers  and  the  travel- 
ing public. 
Dr.  Ellen  B.  Ferguson,  formerly  of  Salt  Lake  City,  and 
active  in  public  afifairs,  died  at  Whitestone,  N.  Y.,  in  March. 
Fire  at  Grandview,  Texas,  on  March  15,  destroyed  the 
greater  portion  of  the  town  and  rendered  1,000  people  home- 
less. 
Russia  is  now  completely  under  control  of  the  Bolshevik 
government,  and  attention  is  being  given  to  spreading  its 
propaganda  among  enighboring  nations. 
Earthquakes  were  reported  in  southern  Europe,  south- 
eastern Asia,  and  Central  America  in  March,  but  none  did 
serious  damage. 
Prince  William  of  Sweden  started  in  March  as  the  head 
of  an  expedition  to  explore  Honduras,  Central  America. 
French  public  opinion  became  rather  bitter  toward  the 
United  States  in  March,  owing  to  President  Wilson  charac- 
terizing as  "militaristic"  France's  public  policy.

EDITORIAL 
Entered  as  second-class  matter  at  the  Post  Office,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 
Motto — Charity  Never  Faileth 
THE    GENERAL    BOARD 
MRS.   EMMELINE   B.   WELLS   
President 
MRS.   CLARISSA  S.   WILLIAMS   
First  Counselor 
MRS.   JULINA  L.   SMITH  ------  Second  Counselor 
MRS.  AMY  BROWN  LYMAN    -----  General   Secretary 
MRS.   SUSA    YOUNG   GATES  ...  -  Recording    Secretary 
MRS.   EMMA  A.   EMPEY   
Treasurer 
Mrs.  Sarah  Jenne  Cannon    Mrs.  Ida  S.  Dusenberry         Mrs.  Carrie  S.  Thomas 
Dr.  Romania  B.  Penrose       Mrs.  Elizabeth  SL  Wilcox     Miss  Sarah  McLelland 
Mrs.  Emily  Sv  Richards         Mrs.  Elizabeth  C.  McCune    Mrs.  Janette  A.  Hyde 
Mrs.  JullaP.M.  Farnsworth    Mrs.  Donnette  Smith  Kesler    Miss  Sarah  Eddin&ton 
Mrs.  Phoebe  Y.  Beatie  Mrs  Elizabeth  C.  Crimson       Miss  Lillian  Cameron 
Mrs.  Rebecca  Nlebaur  Nibley 
Mrs.  Lizzie  Thomas  Edward,  Music  Director 
Miss  Edna  Coray,  Organist 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE 
Editor   
SUSA    YOUNG    GATES 
Business   Manager   
JANETTE   A.    HYDE 
Assistant  Manager     ------  AMY  BROWN  LYMAN 
Room  29,  Bishop's  Building,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 
Vol.  VII  May,     1920  No.  5 
What  Women  Will  Do  With  the 
Suffrage 
With  the  triumphant  ratification  of  the  suffrage  amend- 
ment, the  question  everywhere  in  the  East  is,  "What  will 
women  do  with  the  suffrage?"  It  is  rather  a  silly  question 
for  its  answer  is  so  obvious.  Women  will  use  the  vote  accord- 
ing to  nature,  inclination,  marriage,  and  conditions,  just  as 
men  do.  For  the  machinery  of  government  is  necessarily 
conducted  by  chosen  party  representatives,  who  have  differ- 
ent views  on  only  one  or  two  fundamental  questions.  In  this 
country  we  call  the  two  parties  Republican  and  Democratic. 
In  England  people  are  classified  politically  as  Conservatives 
and  Liberals.  As  a  rule  the  Conservatives  in  England  and  the 
Republicans  in  America  cling  to  well  established  and  safe 
policies  in  the  managing  of  government  affairs.  Democrats 
and  Liberals,  as  a  rule,  like  to  try  out  new  ideas.  Both  sides 
are  really  necessary  in  th^  conduct  of  a  republican  form  of 
government,  for  one  party  is  a  check  upon  the  other.  If  there 
were  no  Democrats,  the  Republicans  would  possibly  introduce 
few  reforms,  while  if  there  were  no  Republicans  the  Demo- 
crats might  introduce  so  many  reforms  that  we  would  be 
trying  everything  once. 
The  whole  contention  in  heaven  before  this  world  was

292  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE 
created  rested  upon  the  doctrine  of  "common  consent"  and 
"free  agency."  We  are  to  do  right  or  we  are  to  do  wrong 
because  we  choose  to  do  it  or  wish  not  to  do  it,  and  not  be- 
cause we  are  forced  or  coerced  into  doing  so.  The  doctrine  of 
"common  consent"  was  revealed  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
in  the  beginning  of  the  Church  (Doctrine  and  Covenants,  Sec- 
tion 26),  and  it  gave  to  this  people  for  all  time  the  fundamental 
principle  of  pure  government.  Under  that  law  every  woman 
quite  as  much  as  every  man  should  have  the  right  not  only  to 
vote  for  men  and  measures,  in  the  Church  and  in  the  state,  but 
she  should  also  have  the  right,  if  she  is  foolish  enough,  to  re- 
fuse to  do  anything  at  all  about  it.  If  she  thus  chooses  to 
ignore  her  responsibilities  she  is  a  poor  citizen  the  same  as  a 
man  who  does  likewise.  She  may  vote  on  the  right  side  of  a 
question  or  the  wrong  side  of  the  question,  just  as  a  man 
may,  according  to  her  likes  and  her  leanings. 
A  right  or  privilege  carries  a  responsibility,  and  when 
women  receive  the  vote  they  receive  with  it  a  heavy  responsi- 
bility to  use  it  according  to  their  best  judgment.  Utah  women 
and  "Mormon"  women  have  long  proved  their  honorable  con- 
victions on  this  matter.  Seventy  per  cent  of  those  who  vote 
in  this  state  are  women  and  that  not  because  of  superior  num- 
bers but  because  more  women  take  advantage  of  the  right  to 
vote. 
Woman's  keen  sympathy  and  reverence  for  truth  and 
honor  will  make  her  susceptible  to  many  sentimental  mistakes 
not  made  by  men.  Women  feel  things  as  a  rule,  while  men 
reason  them  out.  Women  throughout  the  United  States  will 
use  the  ballot  much  as  women  have  done  here  in  Utah.  They 
will  flock  naturally  into  the  two  parties  and  it  will  be  difficult 
indeed  to  make  a  sex  matter  of  any  question  unless  it  comes 
to  a  question  of  moral  issue  like  prohibition  or  tobacco.  By 
the  way,  right  there  you  have  the  test  of  a  woman's  attitude 
on  public  questions.  You  may  prove  to  her  that  prohibition 
of  liquor  and  of  tobacco  is  un-American  and  not  consistent 
with  the  legal  right  of  the  individual  to  do  what  he  pleases. 
She  may  agree  with  you  broadly,  but  she  would  vote  for  pro- 
hibition just  the  same  if  it  would  keep  liquor  away  from  her 
boys.  Her  sentiment  for  the  moral  issue  is  greater  and 
deeper  than  her  appreciation  of  the  fundamental  laws  of  in- 
dividual right.  Indeed  it  is  quite  probable  that  the  women 
voters  and  women  nonvoters  brought  about  prohibition  by 
mass  sentiment,  when  men  would  have  been  helpless  in  their 
appeals  to  each  other. 
One  trouble  in  the  East  and  South  will  be  that  the  great 
mass  of  women  are  home  keepers  only  and  have  not  yet