[Vol7 | May 1920 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: My Little Span]
MY LITTLE SPAN. Bertha A. Kleinman. So little done, and O so much to do! The world so scarred with strife and I so frail — I fold my hands and sit me down and dream Of project rare and regal plan and scheme, That, had I but dominion, should not fail. I would be wise and righteous and benign, And error's boast should wither in my scorn, Bruised, fainting men should know my charity. The world be warmed in my magnanimity, Had I perchance for leadership been born! I would be just — Ah me! that longings vain Should rack my peace and buffet every plan. To sigh for might and sovereignty — Lo! I who teem with fault and frailty. Nor fill too well my own cramped little span. I would be liege, I would dominion know, And sow the world's stained acreage with good, Lo! I who fail and scarce can find the way To rule the little strifes of every day, Whose wraths and wiles accost my fortitude. THE OF MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN Relief Society Conventions and Conferences For 1 920 New Plan for Holding Conjoint Conventions. With the sanction and approval of the General Authorities of the Church, the correlation committee of the Church has arranged for the holding of stake group conventions during 1920, with the six auxiliaries of the stake participating. These two-day conventions will be held in fifty-one stakes this year during the period of quarterly conferences, from August 1 to October 31, and will take the place of the former auxiliary conferences in these stakes. In the remaining twenty-eight stakes, which includes those adjacent to Church headquarters, separate one-day conferences will be held, the dates to be arranged by the stakes themselves in conjunction with the general secretary. These conferences may be held in May, June, or November, but must not interfere in any way with the regular quarterly conferences of the Church. Group Conventions. Those stakes holding joint conventions from August 1 to October 31, will be: Alberta, Bannock, Bear Lake, Beaver, Big Horn, Blaine, Boise, Burley, Carbon, Cassia, Curlew, Deseret, Duchesne, Emery, Idaho, Juab, Juarez, Kanab, Lost River, Maricopa,
