[Vol25 | June 1938 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes Field]
Notes from the Field
Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary

[THIS IS FIGURE: Black and white photograph showing a group of women, labeled as "PRESIDENTS OF CALIFORNIA STAKES"]

California Stakes

The above picture of Presidents of the California Stakes is typical of the group of women who assembled for our recent Conference. It represents all of the stakes in California, except Sacramento. Reading from left to right: Blanch Hoglund, Los Angeles; Zatelle F. Sessions, Hollywood; Sara H. Carruth, Oakland; Pearl C. Miner, Long Beach; Sadie E. Williams, Pasadena; Ethel Blomquist, San Bernardino; Esther D. Stephens, San Francisco; Ruthe B. Samson, Gridley.

Blackfoot

A very interesting report comes from the Blackfoot Stake. These enterprising Relief Society workers have wholeheartedly cooperated in putting over the project suggested by the Work and Business department. Fine results in bread making, sewing, and laundering have been achieved. This is tangible evidence of the enthusiasm with which the "Back to the Home" movement has been received. Representing the bread-making project, each of the fifteen wards in the Stake was asked to supply:

1 loaf whole wheat bread
1 loaf white bread
Some variety of quick bread
Some variety of fancy breads, as orange, date, nuts, etc.

This was judged in the same manner followed in the State Fair: First, second and third prizes were marked by blue, red, and white ribbons respectively. The judges felt

428

that practically every loaf of bread was worthy of a ribbon. In order to get a better idea of the extent of the sewing project in the home, each ward brought the following to a display:

2 articles made at home from new material
2 articles remodeled or made over.

Awards were given in a manner similar to that of the bread, and very attractive and unusual articles were exhibited. The laundering project was also demonstrated. There were two laundered articles from each ward. A blanket that had been in use and laundered for fifteen years was displayed. Many articles that had been washed and ironed beautifully helped to show fine workmanship. This activity seemed to challenge the interest of everyone. Small prizes were given as an expression of appreciation for the efforts of the women and to encourage them. It was the feeling of the Work and Business stake leaders that the objectives of the project had been very satisfactorily attained. First, factual data to verify the general statements about present-day family life was supplied; second, women were helped to understand and evaluate their own work problems. Another very splendid piece of work accomplished in the Stake was in the field of health and home nursing. In November a Health and Home Nursing Convention was sponsored. Uniform programs were held in Aberdeen and Blackfoot and the subjects "Relief Society's Attitude Toward Home Nursing," "The Attitude of the County in the Past and Available Resources at Present," "Sore Throat and the Com-

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
