[Vol54 | April 1967 | Page 249 | Special Feature | Reba O. Carling Appointed to the General Board of | Relief Society]
Reba O. Carling Appointed to the General Board w Reba Olsen Carling, a devoted Relief Society worker and experienced leader in all of the women's auxiliaries of the Church, was appointed to the General Board of Relief Society, February 1, 1967. A daughter of Oluf H. And Jemina Sorenson Olsen, she was born in Monroe, Utah, and was graduated from South Sevier High School. Her education was continued at the Latter-day Saints Business College in Salt Lake City, and at the University of Utah. In Church work, Sister Carling served as president of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association in Rupert, Idaho, and she worked with her husband in the New England Mission, where he was district president; she was a teacher in Primary and in Relief Society in Sunset Ward, San Francisco Stake, and in the Relief Society in Fillmore, Utah. In the Indian Hills Ward, Salt Lake City, she was a member of the MIA presidency, and in the Monument Park Ninth Ward she was theology class leader. In Monument Park Stake she served as Relief Society president, and was an ordinance worker in the Salt Lake Temple at the time of her call to the Relief Society General Board. Sister Carling's business training has been an asset to her in several executive positions, particularly in her recent work as executive secretary and personnel manager of a chain of retail stores in the Salt Lake City area. She is the mother of two sons and a daughter: Richard J. Carling, presently a member of the Utah State Legislature; Michael G. Carling, serving in the British Mission; and DeeAnn (Mrs. J. Clark Robinson). Sister Carling's husband, Junius J. Carling, was killed in an airplane accident in 1962, and she has loyally continued their plans for the education and Church service of their children. The members of Relief Society, wherever they will be privileged to meet and associate with Sister Carling, will be blessed through her faith and enthusiasm and her buoyant personality. She comes to her new appointment with the love and admiration of many friends and a host of fellow workers in Relief Society, and in the Church. 249 Forgotten Necessity from her hands, washed them at the sink, and dried them on the towel tucked into her apron as she walked to the phone. "Hello.... Yes, Frank?... No, not too busy. Just fixing dinner.... Now? Why now?... Yes, I'll be here, but can't you tell me on the phone?... Frank, is it good to leave work early? _.. You don't want to take advan- = Lately, Martha had found the mixing of meat loaf oppressive. From memory she measured the ingredients. Her listless eyes barely noted the slow, deliberate motion of her hands spooning leaden spices into the bowl and stirring together the clay-like mixture. Thirty years ago she had eagerly accepted the challenge of ground beef. Now, she grudged it as one more evidence that it was she who balanced the family budget. Just as she began prodding the stubborn meat with her fingers, the phone rang. Systematically, Martha used her thumb and forefinger to wipe the meat 250 tage just because you are near > retirement.... Well, all right, if you've talked to him.... All right, you can prune those low apricot branches while I finish dinner.... I know that. If you y waited until you felt like.... Well, someone has to. If I didn't, nothing would ever be done.... All right. Bye." Through her years of marriage Martha had grown increasingly responsible. When her children were young, she had imagined herself an accordion, lyrically expanding to bring within herself the added meaning of those who depended upon her. Gradually, she had felt her expansion reach its capacity, her music become thin, her responsibilities grow burdensome. She had_ become the family timekeeper, the buttonfinder, the hole-mender, and even the conscience. That which in her early years had so musically flowed into her had remained to settle upon her, heavy, tiring, unmoving. She had expected that, as the children left for school, missions, and marriage, she would be released to fold again into her smaller, lighter person. But nothing had changed. She retained the responsibility for home, yard, children, even for her husband— especially her husband, the one who should have been responsible for her, the one she should have leaned on. She plunged into the meat loaf again. She had just patted it into the pan when she heard Frank at the gate. She frowned, glanced at the clock, and noted that it had only been five minutes since he called. Martha gathered bits of evidence into conclusions as deftly as she gathered crumbs from the breakfast table into her napkin. Obviously, Frank had not called from his office. He had called from this side of town, the hobby shop. He had bought something, probably for their wild flower collection, possibly the new plastic album he had taken her to admire several nights earlier. And he had come home immediately to show her. Maerua heard her husband come into the kitchen. Before she turned to greet him, she was determined to finish her chore. She could easily imagine him there, grinning, with one hand resting casually on the table and the other, with more effort, casually. Behind his back. In two years he would retire from a full life of work, but he was still the impulsive schoolboy, pride spilling all over his face, eager to show the teacher his clever, new purchase, but anxious that she might not share his enthusiasm. Martha did share his enthusiasm in her own way. On flowerhunting trips with her husband, she forgot her burden of responsibility. The unending blue of the sky, the rolling on and on of the hills, the constant promise of another, more intriguing mountain flower lifted her from her labors.