[Vol54 | April 1967 | Page 273 | Fiction | The Outsider | Iris Schow]
[The Outsider Iris Schow]

the outsider. I can see Decoration Day in Verona yet. The afternoon before, my chum Lettie and I would take her little brother and sister and my little brother down the creek, across the lane, and into the big field of meadow daisies. We never did traverse the apparently unending extent of that field, nor find out who was its owner., Before my big brother Ren was old enough to help Grandpa with the hard work on the farm, he used to go with us. At the creek, we would get water in the pails we carried. We would cram them full of the yellow-centered white daisies, delicate in appearance but actually very enduring, and return home triumphantly with our important contribution to the success of Decoration Day. The next morning, we used to start off early in Grandpa's surrey, so Grandma, who couldn't walk far, could decorate her father's grave and think about her mother's and sister's graves on the plains. Grandma would tell me, 'Jane, you may decorate my baby girl's grave," and Ren would decorate for Great-uncle Pete. Mother decorated Daddy's grave and helped Grandpa fix his mother's grave with the dainty bleeding hearts and the one white rose he had raised in the house for that purpose. As we finished, we would all help with Grandpa's father's grave. When everything was done, we would go together from one grave to another and admire each other's handiwork. Most of the other people would have come early, too, in their whitetop buggies or surreys, and be well started decorating and chatting. And then here would come Mrs. Maysprite, breezing 273 " April 1967 along in her automobile. She would emerge from the poplar lane, whirl in at the gate, circle practically halfway around the cemetery, and stop over where the bluff looked down the canyon. Her hair would be done high in shining black coils, and she would be wearing something of misty green or lavender. She would get out and, with smoothly coordinated movements, unload her baskets of fresh flowers. And she would begin decorating Mr. Maysprite's grave—for there had been a Mr. Maysprite who died before I could remember—lavishly, with a blanket of lavender lilacs, artistically dotted with designs made of white iris. Her flowers were at the height of their beauty on Decoration Day, because spring came so late in the mountains at Verona. Mosr of us didn't have lilacs, unless one of the luckier sisters who had a bush shared with us. Still, a very few of them made a pretty harmony, dotted among the yellow and white meadow daisies. But we couldn't help occasional envious glances at the profusion of lilacs Mrs. Maysprite had all to herself. And as we glanced slyly at Mrs. Maysprite, we would begin talking a little in low tones about her, and about Mr. Maysprite's odd grave. People would talk about how Mrs. Maysprite thought she was "quite a few," because she could sleep late and then get to the cemetery so fast in her automobile. And about how, when she lived that close to the cemetery, you'd think she'd walk. They would talk about how Mr. Maysprite's headstone was at the east 274 end of his grave instead of properly at the west end, and his head in the grave was, too, and the grave didn't point absolutely in any one of the four directions, anyway, but off toward the canyon. At home, Grandpa told Ren and me that it didn't seem right to criticize a man because of his appreciation for beauty, which had made Mr. Maysprite want to rise up on resurrection morning and look down the canyon he loved, instead of standing up to face the rising sun with the rest of us. Grandpa said Mr. Maysprite used to sit up in bed in that glassed-in porch they had built for him. And he'd watch while the springtime crept slowly up the canyon and he fought his losing battle against the tuberculosis, which had brought him to Verona in the first place, hoping to cure it in our dry climate. Ren, who remembered seeing Mr. Maysprite standing in a doorway once, said he was tall and thin, and looked quite a bit like a blue heron. Grandpa said Mrs. Maysprite did live close enough to the cemetery to walk, but she needed her automobile, if she intended to use all those flowers for just that one grave. He said if she hadn't had an automobile, he would have gone back for her in the surrey after delivering us at the cemetery. But, as it was, she kept to herself and knew how to take care of herself, and she probably thought an automobile was nicer than a surrey, anyway. Long after Ren had quit helping us gather meadow daisies because Grandpa needed his work on the farm, he and his plump pal Spud kept on going Halloweening with us kids. One Halloween those two had made the best ticktacks we had ever heard. The rest of us had cut our jack-o'-lanterns from the little pumpkins Grandpa always brought us from his brother's place in the lower valley. We had already been up to "the north end," and back home to try to scare the folks. When we were starting for ''the south end," we saw a crowd of really big boys coming. We didn't want to meet them, because we knew we'd get our candles blown out and our caps pulled down over our eyes, so we cut across Lettie's folks' back lot into. The lucerne stubble of Grandpa's seventeen-acre field, which joined right onto the end of the cemetery. At Spud's suggestion, we blew out our candles. The moon was bright, anyway, and it would be fun to light them again later. Eerie with shadows in the moonlight, the cemetery loomed ahead beyond the barbed wire fence, interrupting our flight. Looking back, we sensed that most of our precautions were needless; the big boys had evidently headed for "the north end," without even glancing our way. Spud had another suggestion. We could go up and ticktack that Mrs. Maysprite's window. Coming from the direction of the cemetery, out of a clear sky, it would give her a real surprise. We could follow the fence to the poplar lane, follow the lane until we were straight for her house, get up the hill by cutting across West's big strawberry patch, and there we'd be. The Outsider Ren had a still better plan. We could get through the barbed wire fence, cut across the cemetery to the gate, and come out just below the strawberry patch, ready to climb up to Mrs. Maysprite's. Tom, Marj, and Wes, the little kids, were afraid to cross the cemetery in the night, but Ren said, ""Who's afraid with the moonlight clear as day? You can even see West's brick house is red. Besides, there's Spud and me here. And Jane and Lettie are pretty big girls. You told your mothers you were big enough to go with me and Spud. Now come on." In the end they did, insisting on lighting their jack-o'-lanterns first, to supplement the rays of the full moon. We didn't have to pass anywhere near Mr. Maysprite's odd grave, and that was reassuring. But we felt creepy in the cemetery, especially when we came to Brother Tyreed's new headstone. His name had been beautifully cut in the stone in an enlargement of his own fine handwriting: 'Noah Abraham Tyreed." This froze Lettie and me in our tracks, for we had never seen it before, and even Ren admitted thinking it was "kind of gruesome." "I like it," said Spud. "It's sort of personal, like signing your name to the story of your life. I'd like my signature on my headstone." "That's because you're real good in penmanship," said Lettie admiringly. Seeming pleased, Spud walked along beside her, murmuring away about his ideas concerning signatures. He held her jack-o'- 

275 April 1967

 lantern while she climbed over the locked cemetery gate. Was it really that easy to begin flirting with a boy? I wondered, setting my lantern on the ground and reaching it through the bars after I was over the gate. "You'd better blow out your candles," Ren advised, as we emerged from the poplars into the berry patch. But Tom and Wes thought it was still too spooky, and they might need their lights in a hurry, if we had to run. "Well, hold the jack-o'-lanterns' faces against your stomachs, then," said Ren with annoyance. "And don't one of you come inside Mrs. Maysprite's yard!" We huddled in the field lane beside Mrs. Maysprite's fence, partly hidden from her house by her lilac bushes, while Ren and Spud propped the one half of her back gate open. Looking down the hill we had just climbed, I could see the cemetery and the canyon painted with the soft silver of the moonlight. I thought it really might be the most beautiful view in the world, as Mr. Maysprite had said it was. "There they go for the house," hissed Lettie, clutching my arm. They climbed onto something, probably a big wooden coal chute top, and simultaneously let the kitchen window have the ticktacks. Then they dashed around the corner of the glassed-in porch and hid. The kitchen window blind went up, and Mrs. Maysprite stood gazing out. She was wearing pale blue, and her fingers kept the place in the book in her hand. From between parted curtains, she looked all around, but she didn't seem to spot anyone. 276 She pulled the blind back down. When we saw Spud and Ren going back to the window, Lettie, suddenly bold, dashed into Mrs. Maysprite's yard, and we all followed. This time, at the first clatter of the ticktacks, the kitchen door flew open. Mrs Maysprite stepped out. All of us hit the back gate at once. That is, all but plump Spud and little Marj. Somehow Spud had fallen over Marj in his urgent retreat. He clambered up and fled, while the rest of us halted in consternation, at the bottleneck of the gate. Ren and Mrs. Maysprite converged from opposite directions, running to aid the bewildered, wailing Marj. A we Ren crisply, brushing off Marj's coat and straightening her knit cap. Mrs. Maysprite began picking up the scattered fragments of Marj's_ jack-o'-lantern. "Come back, children," she entreated. "Come back and have some oatmeal cookies." "I'll_ take care of her," said! "We don't care for any," I said in a stilted tone. "Who ever heard of oatmeal cookies?" Lettie said haughtily. "Everybody knows oats is for mush!" "Oats is for horses, too," Mrs. Maysprite remarked mildly. 'But that doesn't make it unsuitable for breakfast cer.... Mush." "Excuse these kids' rude, impolite manners, Mrs. Maysprite," said Ren. "They just don't know any better." Well, I liked that! We'd both be thirteen within the next two months, and Ren had not been fourteen so very long, himself. We had retreated to what we thought was a safe distance down the lane. Accepting a few cookies, Ren joined us. "Say, oatmeal is pretty good in cookies," conceded Spud, as Ren broke off samples for us. "T wonder how she knew that," Lettie remarked, while little Marj said, "It's the raisins makes them taste nice." "Let's put her old gates someplace funny, like up in a lilac bush, or on top of her pump," suggested Spud, when Lettie pointed out that we'd left half of the gate propped open, and someone might bump into it and get hurt. Bur Ren would not have the gates taken down. "We promised the folks we wouldn't do anything that's really mean," he stated. 'And that would be mean, because Mrs. Maysprite doesn't have anyone to help her put them back." Instead, he sent Wes and Tom back to shut the gate. They went most reluctantly, to the amusement of us all. The Outsider Someone else would _ take people's gates down, though, for next morning the news was all over school that Mrs. Maysprite's double gate was hanging over the side door of West's barn, with ropes and pulleys, so it could go up and down just like a portcullis. When we told the folks about that, Grandpa said it was nice the fellows remembered something from their studies in history. He started off with Ren and me along to help take the gate down and return it. But we met two of those big boys carrying it back, so I guessed their folks had the same idea as Grandpa had. It was only the second summer after that Halloween, when the pipe line for the power plant broke in the night, and the washout caused a slide that completely blocked off the road, about two thirds of the way down the canyon. Ren was doing more and more of the farm work, now. The afternoon following the washout, Ren was finishing mowing the seventeen-acre field, and Grandpa, Wes, and I had walked out there to see if the hay had dried enough that Wes could start raking it. The mowing was just finished, when something startled the horses, and somehow Ren, who had mowed for years, got in the way and had practically all of his left foot cut off. Grandpa stopped the horses and hurried to Ren. By then the berry pickers and Brother West were rushing over there. Everyone was trying to think of a way to get Ren to Dr. Browne, with the road all blocked up. Brother West sent someone to his house to phone for Dr. Browne to come right up to the landslide, pre- 

277 April 1967

 pared to climb over it. Others went to hitch up West's whitetop buggy and take the back seat out. That would be better than the surrey to take Ren in, they decided, and quicker to get, too. Grandpa and Sister West were trying to control the bleeding. And then, we never knew just how, Mrs. Maysprite got the word, but here she came whizzing along the lane in her automobile. She jerked to a stop, threw the little door open, and was under the barbed wire fence and running through the stubble and hay, calling, '""Let me help you! Oh, let me help!" In seconds, Ren was in the back of that automobile with Grandpa and Sister West, and they were leaving to meet the doctor. Wes and I rode the team someone had unhitched, racing for home to hitch up the surrey and take Mother and Grandma to Ren. Ren said afterward that they urged him to lie still and shut his eyes, and let the others take care of him. But every time he opened his eyes he would notice, ever so foolishly, that there was a corner-shaped tear near the shoulder of Mrs. Maysprite's pink gingham housedress. And that her hair, which was partly coiled on top of her head, and partly hanging down her back, had quite a bit of gray in it now. Well, everybody did the very best they could, including Dr. Browne, who clambered over the rocks and mud with his bag. Ren's life and leg were saved. He soon became an expert with his crutches, as we all knew he would, and, eventually, when 278 medical skills were better, he had an artificial foot. From that day on, a mildly warm feeling existed between Mrs. Maysprite and nearly everyone in Verona. At last the children began to let her treat them with her pans of goodies, like the ones she must have been preparing for them on Halloween for years, to no avail. The sisters exchanged recipes and embroidery ideas with her sometimes. Occasionally, one or two accepted a lift in her automobile on the way to the store with eggs to sell. She even helped the Daughters of the Pioneers with the flower arrangements at members' funerals, a couple of times. And the brethren sometimes sent their big boys to clean her irrigation ditch. I should like to be able to say that Mrs. Maysprite was taught the gospel in Verona, and that, eventually, she was baptized. But the fact is that when she grew too old to live alone, her nephew or cousin and his wife came and moved her away somewhere to share their home. I was at college then and had lost track of affairs in Verona, somewhat. I guess none of us ever thought of saying anything to Mrs. Maysprite about religion, for in those days we did not ask the outsider any golden questions. So many years have passed that she has surely been called home by now, but she has never been brought back to Verona to share Mr. Maysprite's burial lot and the direction of his grave. So, when the time comes, Mr. Maysprite will have to rise up and look down the canyon all alone, rejoicing in the confirmation of his firmly abiding belief in the resurrection. But Ren's little wife Marj and I are partners in searching to find out where Mrs. Maysprite went, and all the other necessary facts concerning her and Mr. Maysprite. For their love for each other was true love. And when The Outsider Brother Maysprite has risen and viewed his beloved canyon in its dear reality, and turned to greet the rising sun with the rest of us, he will speed away over the hills to wherever she was buried, and there, in joy, we hope he will claim Sister Maysprite's hand for all eternity. FULL CIRCLE Caro! Lynn Wright I shall close the circle, Grandmother, Whose first half brought You to these mountains. On eight-year-steady legs you walked Beside the wagon, brushing the dust From your mouth with hands that In the night reached out for The dolls you left in Nottingham. Your wide eyes watched the wooden Coffin close over your sister Lucy, A mother's tear frozen on her still face. Fourteen hundred miles of strange night noises And the hurt of a hungry stomach And feet that cried for rest. "But where are we going, Mother?" "To Zion, dear. Hold the blanket tight." "Mother, what is Zion?" "Zion is the pure in heart. Sleep." Did you know, Grandmother, As you laid your daughter in a cradle That she would lay a daughter in a cradle Who would close the circle? This bit of lace you brought from Over the sea will be in my pocket. And I will pray that you are there Among the hosts that go before, Keeping the pillar of fire. I! May have a child who cries out in the night For his own bed in the valley of the Wasatch. He won't understand why there are no trains To travel the fourteen hundred miles. He may turn to me as we lie on the prairie floor. "But where are we going, Mother?" "To build the New Jerusalem. Hold the blanket tight." "But why are we going, Mother?" "Because Christ is there.' Our circle, Grandmother, And Adam's larger circle, too: Eden of Old, Jerusalem anew.