[Vol54 | April 1967 | Page 291 | General Feature | On Baking Bread Mildred | Cook Solury]
On Baking Bread Mildred Cook Solury Bread is the symbol of hope, the growth of man, and the hospitality of the home. Today, as always, the art of bread-baking is rewarding, Handling yeast dough is a delight and pure childlike fun. You are dealing with something responsive and warmly alive. As you knead demand it makes on your time. Only a small part of your reward is the bread itself—the most important is the gift of the bread to your family. Place. When the warm loaves of bread come out of the oven, the cycle is complete. As your family enters your kitchen radiantly filled with old-fashioned bread-baking aroma, only then will you realize the deep satisfaction of fulfillment and pleasure. Memories of childhood flash into reality; they recall home—the first shelter, and dreams of hope. MY HANDS Sadie J. Stevens I've just been thinking, and without a doubt, My hands are something to brag about. Not that they're Pretty, but where would I be Without these two hands here in front of me? There's so much they can do, and seldom complain; I can use them and wash and use them again. They never wear out and don't ask much care, And if I ever need them, they're always there. Bless these two hands. Sometimes I need four, But, if!'m willing, they're able— And who could ask more? 291 '''Good Old House"' Verna S. Carter i G ood old house," my mother would say. I can remember as a young girl coming home with my mother from a trip to the store or a visit to a friend, or just from anywhere, my mother would open the door, and as she walked inside she would stop, pat the walls two-or three times and say "good old house." Just that and nothing more, and I would follow her inside, pondering in my young mind why she would do such a strange thing. Our house was not what the neighbors would call a "fancy house," but as Uncle Jim said, it was a comfortable, adjustable house, and one, he would add, that could stretch its seams to accommodate a multitude. I suspect my uncle was referring t

o the Sunday dinners of mother's specialty, chicken with noodles, and homemade ice cream. 292 Good Old House When father announced "There is always room for one more," I knew my brothers and I would be shifted from the big table to the small one in the corner of the dining room. We didn't mind, as mother always gave us special attention there. As I grew older, my eyes could not detect any great physical changes in our house, but, as I watched my mother continue to pat lovingly the "good old house," I would ask myself, "What made it so?" Was it the getting into fresh, clean-smelling sheets for a peaceful night's rest? The wallpaper that always looked so happy on the kitchen walls? Was it Father? Mother? The comfort of knowing they were there with understanding and love? Was it the family all kneeling together in prayer?