[Vol31 | April 1944 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Wist Ye Not That I Must Jr]
"Wist  Ye  Not  That  I  Must  Be  About  My  Father's  Business?"— -Part  V 
 
  President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.   198 
Sketch  of  My  Life  
 - 
 Eliza  R.  Snow  Smith  207 
The  Child's  Voice  and  His  Early  Musical  Experiences   Florence  Jepperson  Madsen  215 
Rose  Growing  in  the  Home  Garden    ^   Hazel  D.  Moyle  223 
FICTION 
The  Rock  and  the  River  (Part  II  of  Three)  
 Ezra  J.  Poulsen  226 
GENERAL  FEATURES 
Sixty   Years   Ago    
 218 
Woman's   Sphere   
 Ramona  W.    Cannon  219 
Editorial:    Salt  Lake  Region  Welfare  Meeting   Belle  S.  Spafford  220 
Notes  to  the  Field:    Relief  Society-Stake  Quarterly  Conference     222 
Notes  From  the  Field:    Messages  From  the  Missions   —   
  General  Secretary-Treasurer  Vera  W.  Pohlman  232 
POETRY 
Spring  Silhouette  
 Agnes  K.  Morgan  193 
Music  on  Easter  
 Christie  Lund  Coles  206 
When  We  Must  Say  Goodby  
 Grace  Zenor  Pratt  214 
PUBLISHED  MONTHLY  BY  THE  GENERAL  BOARD  OF  RELIEF  SOCIETY 
Editorial  and  Business  Offices:  28  Bishop's  Building,  Salt  Lake  City  1,  Utah,  Phone  3-2741.  Ex.  243. 
Subscription  Price:  $1.00  a  year;  foreign,  $1.00  a  year;  payable  in  advance.  Single  copy,  10c. 
The  Magazine  is  not  sent  after  subscription  expires.  Renew  promptly  so  that  no  copies  will  be 
missed.     Report  change  of  address  at  once,  giving  both  old  and  new  address. 
Entered  as  second-class  matter  February  18,  1914,  at  the  Post  Office,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  under 
the  Act  of  March  3,  1879.  Acceptance  for  mailing  at  special  rate  of  postage  provided  for  in 
section  1103,  Act  of  October  8,  1917,  authorized  June  29,  1918.  Manuscripts  will  not  be  returned 
unless  return  postage  is  enclosed.  Rejected  manuscripts  will  be  retained  for  six  months  enly. 
The   Magazine   is   not   responsible   for   unsolicited    manuscripts. 
MAGAZINE  CIRCULATION  68,000

THE  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE 
VOL  31,  NO.  4  APRIL  1944 
SPRING  SILHOUETTE 
Agnes  K.  Morgan 
Majestic  mountains  rise  to  meet  the  sky 
Whose  vivid  blue  is  pierced  by  stately  crest; 
Sharp  cliffs  and  noble  pines  in  silhouette 
Cut  strong  and  clear  in  azure  depths  are  pressed. 
The  valley,  where  the  stalwart  mountains  meet 
To  blend  into  the  brown  and  humid  earth, 
Is  teeming  with  its  touch  of  early  green, 
And  vital  half-blown  buds  are  given  birth. 
In  cobalt  skies  there  swells  a  melody, 
As  skylarks  rise  on  zenith  flight,  and  then 
Comes  drifting  back  a  lovely  airy  song 
From  golden  throat  into  the  hearts  of  men. 
The  Cover:  The  cover  picture  is  from  a  photograph  taken  by  Norman  Smith.  Cover 
arrangements  are  by  Evan  Jensen.

Easter  In  Wartime 
Elder  Stephen  L  RichBids 
Member  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 
WHEN  Easter  comes  in  this 
sad  year  of  1944,  it  will  bring 
a  message  sorely  needed  in 
the  homes  of  the  land  and  the  na- 
tions of  the  earth.  The  message 
emanates  from  the  central  fact  in 
the  life  and  ministry  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ— His  resurrection  from 
the  grave. 
The  record  of  this  transcendent 
event  will  be  recited  for  us  again, 
how,  following  His  crucifixion  and 
the  mutilation  of  His  body,  Jesus 
was  taken  from  the  cross  and  laid  in 
the  sepulchre  of  a  friend,  there 
wrapped  in  burial  clothes  and  His 
body  anointed  with  embalming 
spices;  how,  after  such  laying  away, 
a  stone  was  placed  to  close  the  en- 
trance to  the  sepulchre  and  Roman 
guards  stationed  to  guard  it;  how,  in 
the  early  morn  of  the  third  day 
following  His  cruel  death,  the  stone 
was  rolled  away  by  an  angel  who  so 
frightened  the  guards  that  they  ran 
away  in  great  fear  and  consterna- 
tion; how  His  intimate  friends  came 
shortly  thereafter  to  perform  further 
kindly  offices  for  Him  and,  in 
astonishment,  discovered  He  was 
gone;  how  He  first  appeared  and 
brought  comfort  and  reassurance  to 
the  woman  who  loved  Him  and 
how,  thereafter.  He  established  to 
the  satisfaction  of  other  friends  and 
strangers,  too,  some  doubting,  the 
reality  of  His  life  after  death  and  the 
literal  fulfillment  of  His  remarkable 
prophecy,  then  so  vaguely  compre- 
hended, that  He  should  be  killed, 
but  ''he  shall  rise  the  third  day" 
(Mark  9:31). 
This  profoundly  impressive  story 
will  be  retold  on  Easter  Day.  There 
is  within  it  more  significance  for  the 
life  and  happiness  of  man  than  in 
any  other  circumstance  of  which  we 
have  record,  unless  it  be  in  the  ac- 
count of  man's  creation  as  the  son 
of  God.  It  is  out  of  this  marvelous 
event  in  the  life  of  Jesus  that  we 
derive  the  supreme  blessing  of  hu- 
mankind, the  immortality  of  the 
soul,  and  eternal  life  with  God. 
The  inestimable  blessing  of  the 
resurrection  inures  to  all.  Every