[Vol52 | December 1965 | Page 902 | Fiction | The Tinsel and the Ornaments Christie | Lund Coles]
There was always a little sadness, removing the ornaments, putting the tinsel and the gleaming balls into their respective boxes. There was sadness just thinking of it now, as she looked about her, the room lights out, the tree lights flickering, giving a rich, pink radiance to the room. Each year took the three children a bit farther away from the wonder and the magic that made 902 Christie Lund Coles Christmas the glorious thing which it was. But it was behind Susan now. It was New Year's Eve, and she must hurry to be ready for the few guests who were coming in to play games, to have a late supper and watch the New Year enter. The two younger children, Nadine and Scott—eleven and nine —were in the TV room watching a favorite program. They had eaten, and been promised that it they stayed there tonight they could have two friends in for dinner tomorrow; but, if they were awake, they could come down at midnight, and have a horn and a hat. She hoped that Jill and Randy (and their friends, Alice and John) would be here too, to form a friendship circle, to sing "Auld Lang Syne," to drink the warm cider punch. Was that why she was a bit sad _ tonight, remembering that Jill had turned eighteen just a few weeks before Christmas? That she was no longer even a big, little girl? She was a young woman. She had reached her maturity. And she and Randy were fond of each other. Very fond. The two of them had gone to Alice's place for dinner and were going on to another party. Jill had promised to drop in before the party. Susan hoped she would not forget. She wanted to invite them, once more, to the midnight circle. Yet, she could not be offended if they preferred dancing the old year out with their friends, and came later. Susan was just picking up a fallen ornament (the tree was getting dry), when she heard laughter and footsteps in the hall. She looked up. Her husband and the four young people were entering at the same time. Peter had some joke for them, even though he had just made a house call to see a sick child. (Good, good Peter, always dependable, always conscientious when other doctors might even refuse to go, telling the mother what to do, advising her to bring the child to the office the next day. He had said, "The mother needs reassurance. Night can be such a bad time with a child sick."' Yes, he was the best.) A sudden thrill went through Susan, hearing the laughter, the talk; being aware that they were shaking the newly fallen snow from their shoulders and boots. She turned to greet them, smiling. "Hi," the young people called back, Peter said, "Hell-o." Then, addressing his daughter and her three friends, he went on, "Doesn't Susan make a picture in her gold dress, beside that pink Christmas tree? Can you wonder why I fell in love with her?" Jill said, "Oh, Daddy. For THE TINSEL AND THE ORNAMENT goodness sake!"" But Susan could tell she was pleased. Some wise person said, "The greatest gift a man can give his children is a respect for their mother." Peter gave her that, surely, and more than that. He gave her his great love. And admiration. She had tried to earn them all, of course. Susan reached her hand to Peter, and the other four moved about the room a little awkwardly, though they had always seemed at home before. Jill had moved over to the mantel, and was fondling one of the small angels which somehow resembled the girl, with its long, blonde hair and blue eyes. Suddenly, Randy was beside her, and the two looked at each other quickly, then away. Susan went to speak, then stopped, knowing her daughter was about to speak. She did, rather slowly, the words coming faster as she went on:''Mother, Daddy, we're going over to Evie's for this New Year's Eve party, you know. They've decided to have an allnight party. We thought we'd tell you.". Her pretty, dimpled chin was set. She had been careful to say, "tell you," instead of "ask you." "All night?" her father asked, "You'll be pretty tired." Susan's mouth was dry. She asked, "Will her parents be there?" Jill smiled, almost patronizingly, 'Well, after midnight, I imagine they will be home... And in bed. We're not going to do anything that will need chaperoning, for pity's sake." "But... To stay there till morning..." her mother protested. 


 Jill was ready with the hackneyed answer, "Well, all the girls do it. And it's just once a year. We'll have breakfast. It will be real keen." Real keen. Susan sat down, her knees suddenly too weak to hold her standing. She groped in her mind, in her heart, for words to say, words that would not irritate, not offend, but would make a point. She couldn't tell the girl —certainly not in front of strangers—how easy it was to be tempted. She couldn't confess that once when she was young, she almost stayed out all night, almost knew the power of temptation. Peter and she had had to stop on a lonely road, in a rainstorm. They could not see a hand before them, and had waited for it to cease. She had _ leaned against his shoulder for warmth and his arm had drawn her close. He had kissed her, and alone— with the rain beating a weird, unreal sound on the windows—she had felt unreal, too, and caught up in a strange sweetness, just being near him. She loved him so. But, she had remembered her mother, her father, all the things she had been taught. Of course, Peter was a gentleman, and loved her enough to protect her. But, even a gentleman... Sometimes She closed her eyes, wanting to say something, to warn Jill of possible dangers. She wished she could speak to Peter alone, could plan some strategy which would not irritate nor anger their child. Something which would not be melodramatic, didn't Peter say something? There was nothing to do but come out with an out-and-out No. That was the simplest, the 904 but mght: Why © surest. There wasn't time for quibbling. They were waiting for an answer. Susan glanced briefly into her daughter's eyes. She looked tired. It had been a hectic holiday season. School would start in a few days, yet the girl would not admit to being tired in front of her friends. There was only one thing to do. Susan started to say, firmly, "I'm sorry but " She saw the girl stiffen, and felt she couldn't bear it if Jill answered, "'m sorry, but I'm eighteen." Susan paused before she went on, wanting to tell Jill they would like them to come back home, to be in the friendship circle as they sang "Auld Lang Syne." Then, her husband, Peter, the girl's father was saying, "What your mother is trying to say is that if that is what you really want, it is all right." Susan caught her breath in disbelief, but before she could say anything, he was going on, "But, none of the women on either side of the family has ever stayed out all night." There was complete silence in the room. Jill looked at Randy. He smiled. She smiled in return, saying, "Well, I wouldn't want to break a family tradition, now would I? We'll be back by midnight. Have plenty of that good cider punch." She kissed her parents, and Alice looked at her with something akin to envy in her eyes. "Happy New Year' filled the air. But Susan, looking at the tree standing in the corner, was glad she had extended Christmas with its big and little miracles. She felt Peter's arm about her shoulders. Ramona W. Cannon Iphigene Ochs (Mrs. Arthur Hays Sulzberger), seventy-three, is the daughter of Adolph Ochs, who bought and began publishing the New York Times in 1896. She is matriarch of her family circle and is on the Board of Directors. Her son, Arthur Ochs Sulzberger, is president and publisher. She is a powerful influence in keeping the Times up to the standards maintained by her father: vast knowledge in every field, encyclopedic coverage of material, accuracy, and the impossibility. Of anybody's buying its influence. Miss Betty Skelton of Detroit, Michigan, set a new international