[Vol52 | December 1965 | Page 896 | Fiction | The Perfect Christmas Betty Lou | Martin Smith]
[The Perfect Christmas Betty Lou Martin Smith]

Judith remembered pleasantly the times that she and Kathy had spent together shopping for the holidays, and she could hardly 896 =rfiech Christa: Betty Lou Martin Smith wait until they could have that time together again. We've always been such a close family, she thought, and now there'll be just the four of us as it was before Steven went overseas. Putting the cookies in the oven to bake, Judith walked over to the window. Outside, the shadows cast a strange, mystic light as the twilight came. The view was indeed breath-taking, and she breathed a sigh at its loveliness. It will be a perfect Christmas this year, she smiled contentedly to herself. The ringing of the telephone brought. Judith back to reality as she hurried to its beckoning. "Hello, Mom, this is Kathy." "Kathy!" Judith was surprised. "Is everything all nght? I didn't expect to hear from you again before we met the train." "Everything is just fine, Mom," Kathy explained. "I just wondered how you would like to have guests over the holidays? My two roommates, Sue and Angela, are going to be left here alone for the holidays. It is too far for them to go home; and I thought maybe it would seem more like Christmas to them if they spent it with us." Judith was glad that Kathy couldn't see the disappointment on her face. "Kathy, I was planning on just the four of us spending the holidays together," she managed. Kathy was silent for a moment, "Everyone needs a family at Christmas, Mom. I've already sort of asked them. I know that I. Should have called you and Daddy first." Her composure regained, Judith added quickly, "Of course, dear, if that is what you want, then we will make the best of it." "I know that you won't be sorry, Mother. You'll like the girls every bit as well as I do. I just know it." Kathy's voice was excited. '""We'll see you in a couple of days." * * "It sounds great to me," Henry Blair, a distinguished man with graying hair, said, as he hung his overcoat in the hall closet. 'I like young people around, especially at Christmastime." "I know where Kathy got her impulsiveness from, Henry." Judith was annoyed. 'She never could turn away a stray cat or dog and neither could you. She should think of her family before she acts." For the first time Henry noticed the crushed look upon his wife's face. Over the years he had come to know her every mood so well. THE PERFECT CHRISTMAS "You're disappointed that we are not going to be just the four of us this year, aren't you, dear?" Gently Henry put his arms around Judith. The tears of disapproval finally gave way in Judith. "I thought this was going to be the best Christmas ever, and now Kathy's bringing the girls with her. I know that I sound selfish, Henry, but I did so want us to enjoy this Christmas." "There's certainly no reason in the world why we can't enjoy Christmas as much this year as we ever have," Henry comforted his wife. "I wish I had your compassion, Henry." Judith dried her eyes. "I'll do my best to make them feel welcome. I won't let Kathy down." "That's my girl."' Henry smiled. "I think that we should get them a present so they won't be left out on Christmas morning." "Trust you to think of everything. Of course, we wouldn't want the girls to feel left out of things." As Kathy had promised, the girls were very sweet and seemed to fit into the home exceptionally well. Even quiet, good-looking Steven was more jovial and talkative than usual. Kathy's roommate, Sue, was small and brown-haired with an air of mischievousness about her, and the sprinkling of freckles across her upturned nose added to her charm. Angela, a lovely, dark-haired girl, was less talkative than Sue, but every bit as charming in her quiet way. "Aren't they simply terrific, Mom?" Blue-eyed Kathy bubbled as she helped her mother in the kitchen. "And they think that 


 the family is simply terrific too." "Yes, they are very nice, Kathy." Judith tried to sound convincing. The day before Christmas dawned bright and crisp. The earth appeared as an enchanted fairyland with its sparkling white snow. ''What a simply glorious day to go shopping." Kathy went into Judith's room and found her seated in front of the window. "Aren't you ready, Mom? We're going in a few minutes." "I didn't plan on going with you, Kathy." Judith turned her face away from her daughter. "You young people don't want me tagging along with you." "Oh, but we do, Mrs. Blair." Angela stood in the doorway. "It will be more like being at home having you with us. Please go." "Oh, please do, Mrs. Blair," Sue added as she walked up to the side of Angela. "It will be such fun." A pleasant feeling came over Judith, and her face flushed becomingly. 'Well, I guess that I might as well. It will only take me a few minutes to get ready." She was flattered that the girls would want her with them. Judith couldn't remember having spent a happier day in her entire life. The girls were so congenial and such fun to be with. The Christmas carols sounded out joyously as they walked from store to store, and the sidewalk Santas added their warmth to the day. "TI can't ever remember having walked so far on carpus,' Sue commented, as she removed her shoes and flopped into an easy chair. "Mrs. Blair is the only one who doesn't seem tired at all. I 898 'honestly don't know how parents do it." Angela and Kathy laughed. "I know that I can't keep up with them," Angela chided. "I don't know whether I am going to be able to dance tonight or not," Kathy said weakly, "although it is very thoughtful of Steve to get us dates." "Oh, come on now, Kathy. He just arranged it so that he could go with Angela," Sue teased. "Honestly, Sue, I don't know where you get your ideas from." Angela blushed as she tried to match Sue's wit. It was evident that Steven was quite taken by Angela. He had never been so attentive to a girl before. "I must say that Steven has good taste," Judith said approvingly. Christmas Eve the girls took over little chores that had always tired Judith before, and she could not remember having felt so rested the day before Christmas. She went about her remaining tasks leisurely, enjoying every moment of her family's and guests' happy chatter. The very air had a mystery about it, as if it were truly about to proclaim the anniversary of the Savior's birth. How beautiful and tranquil the world seemed, and how beautiful and tranquil Judith felt in her heart. That evening after supper, everyone gathered in the living room to hear Henry's traditional reading from the Bible, the story of the Savior's birth. Kathy turned the Christmas tree lights on, and they flickered merrily in the warm light of the fireplace. Judith let her gaze rest upon each of the faces before her, and I eyes also f k were new that have a Ore beay- "You are ome, m dear." Ul experie Ce or feel as She did Judith 1] €ant it. "And J at that moment.