[Vol53 | November 1966 | Page 0 | Poetry | Sea Etching, Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn, 86\l Resolution Estella | S. Johnson]
[Sea Etching, Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn, 86\l Resolution Estella S. Johnson]

President Belle S. Spafford {Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 28, 1966] In March 1840, Elder Parley P. Pratt, exuberant with joy and gratitude over the truths revealed anew through the restored gospel, released his feelings in poetic words which were published on the first page of the initial number of the Millennial Star, and later set to music. As we, too, have rejoiced in the knowledge and_ the blessings which have come to us through modern revelation, we have sung the words penned by Elder Pratt with depth of feeling: The morning breaks, the shadows flee, Lo, Zion's standard is unfurled. The dawning of a brighter day Majestic rises on the world. Truly women should rejoice in the brighter day which dawned for womankind with the restoration. As the rays of the gospel shed their light upon the earth, the lofty position accorded woman in the gospel plan and the importance of her divinely ordained earthly mission were made clearly visible, and new vistas for development and purposeful living, under the guidance of the Priesthood, were opened to her view. In the early part of the nineteenth century, there appears to have been little consideration given to the divine nature and destiny of woman, and life for her encompassed but few of the opportunities and advantages contemplated in the gospel plan. Let us briefly review her position and circumstances. True, it is hard to arrive at a precisely clear picture which might be applied to every woman of that day. The differing economic and social circumstances, the varied conditions and cultures of her area of residence, the western movement - in America which demanded unusual adaptations in order to meet the requirements of survival—all had bearing on the life of a woman. This we know, however, her world was in large measure her home, her Church, and her neighborhood. Life for the average woman was hard, and many shackles bound her in the development of her talents and in the exercise of her abilities, as well as in the exercise of her God-ordained free agency. There were rigid barriers of law against property holding and guardianship of children. Most industries refused to employ her and those which did offered her only routine labor with long hours and low pay. The taboos of society on education and public expression, along with the prevalent superstition which held, "the weak, feminine brain, incapable of serious thinking." shackled her personal development. The advantages of education were extremely limited. Colleges of higher learning did not admit her. True, women had served as teachers of a sort, but they were primary teachers instructing only in the three "Rs."