[WomansExponent | Vol5 | 1876 | August | Issue: 5 | Title: LADIES UPON DRESS. | Author: Unknown]

LADIES UPON DRESS.

	The rich dress and costly ornaments that
become maturer life, and ceremonious par-
ties in large cities, are unsuited to the very
young, who need no such "foreign aid."
Some persons toil early and late and strain
every nerve, to procure an expensive gar-
ment, and think, that once arrayed in it,
they will look as well as some richer neigh-
bor, whose style of dress they wish to im-
itate; but they forget, that if it does not ac-
cord with their general style of living, if it
is out of harmony with other things, it will
so strike everybody, and this want of fit-
ness will prevent it looking well on them.
Let a true sense of propriety of the fitness
of things regulate all your habits of living
and dressing; and it will produce such a
beautiful harmony and consistency of char-
acter, as will throw a charm around you
that all will feel, though few may compre-
hend. Always consider well whether the
articles of dress which you wish to pur-
chase are suited to your age, your condi-
tion, your means; the climate, to the par-
ticular use to which you mean to put them;
and then let the principles of good taste
keep you from the extremes of the fashion,
and regulate the form, so as to combine util-
ity and beauty, while the known rules of
harmony in colors save you from shocking
the eye of the artist with incongruous mix-
tures.
	The agreeable effect that all wish to pro-
duce in the eyes of others, depends much
more on just, proportions in the parts, thus
forming a pleasing whole, than on little or-
namental additions, which, though pretty
in themselves, add nothing to the general
effect. Thus in making a pelisse, it is all-
important that the cape should be of the
right size and shape, to agree well with the
sleeves and back, and that the collar should
be well proportioned to the cape; but it mat-
ters very little whether it have one or two
rouleaus of satin or velvet around it, or
whether it have none; and so it is with a
thousand other little particulars, which take
much time in the making and add much to
the expense, without really adding any-
thing to the general good appearance. It is
a happy thing for the diffusion of good
taste, that it may, in many things, be cul-
tivated without any pecuniary expense. The


[COLUMN 1]

price of colored muslin or printed calico, is
the same whether the figure be pretty or
ugly; the ribbon that is tastefully disposed
upon the bonnet, costs no more than the
one that is ill arranged. The shawl is the
same in value whether it is dragged round
the shoulders like an Indian's blanket, or
worn in graceful folds. It costs no more to
buy colors that harmonize than those that
do not. Indeed, true taste will generally
be found on the side of economy, because
simplicity is;—the first cost is thus lessen-
ed, and garments that are really well shap-
ed, are longer in favor. The exercise of
good taste, therefore, need not be consider-
ed the privilege of the few; it may regulate
the toilet of her who earns what she ex-
pends upon it, as well as for her whose bills
are paid by a rich father; the more it is
studies the more good sense and simplicity
will be consulted, because these are includ-
ed in the principles of true taste.
	Whilst taste may be made to regulate the
dress of all, even of the working classes,
wealth, unaccompanied by it, cannot com-
mand its beautiful results. Your clothes
may be ordered of the best dressmaker, and
everything you wear may be of the most
costly materials, and in the latest Paris
fashion; and yet you may spoil your appear-
ance by your manner of putting them on,
and by wearing those articles together
which do not accord. The most expensive
dresses at a ball are seldom those that pro-
duce the best effect; and nothing so effect-
ually defeats its object, as an excess of or-
nament. Some persons seem to have an
inherent love of finery, and seem to cling
to it pertinaciously, even when their under-
standings are convinced that it is repug-
nant to the feelings of refined minds, and
that it is a trait common to all barbarous
tribes: they cannot reason upon their pref-
erences—they can only say, that what oth-
ers condemn as tawdry, looks pretty to
them. This persuasion generally takes
place very early, and is much to be regret-
ed, as it prevents the growth of purer prin-
ciples. We have often thought that the
very bad taste in which dolls are usually
dressed, may have something to do with
this early love of finery. Children have of-
ten a real affection for their puppets; and
when they are bedizened in all the colours
of the rainbow, and decked in all the odds
and ends of finery that can be stuck upon
them, the little dears learn, by this associa-
tion, to love this tawdry ornament: whereas
a well-dressed doll would have an import-
ant influence in establishing a correct taste
in the mind of the child. We once knew a
family where the dolls were all very neatly
dressed, like babies and little children, and
not as fine ladies, on purpose to make them
a more rational and useful source of amuse-
ment; and we would beg all young ladies
who dress dolls for little girls, to do it in
such a manner as not to foster a love of fin-
ery.
	We have heard a mother who guarded
her daughters against this bad taste by mak-
ing it one of their childish punishments to
weak a very tawdry cap full of feathers, and
flowers, and bows of ribbons of all colours.
Judging by what we sometimes see worn
by grown up people, we might suppose that
such a cap had been their reward in child-
hood rather than their punishment, and was
thus recommended to their best affections.
The love of finery is rarely cured, and forms
an insurmountable obstacle to the cultiva-
tion of pure taste. Whosoever is conscious
of possessing it, ought to mistrust her own
judgment in matters of taste, and be will-
ing to take the advice of others. No plain-

[COLUMN 2]

ness of dress can ever be construed to your
disadvantage; but ornamental additions,
which in their best state are a very doubt-
ful good, become a positive evil when de-
faced, or soiled, or tumbled. Shabby feath-
ers, and crushed or faded artificial flowers,
are an absolute disgrace to a lady's appear-
ance; while their total absence would never
be remarked. Next to soiled stockings,
soiled bonnet-caps are the most offensive
things in a young lady's dress; and the lat-
ter are but too common. Whatever ap-
proaches the face should be particularly
clean; and it is better always to wear those
materials which will wash than to use silk
net after it is at all sullied by wear. Color-
ed gauze hankerchiefs, that are worn till
they are faded, or sullied, or the color
changed by perspiration, are a disagreeable
sight, and will spoil the neat appearance of
a person, however well dressed otherwise;
cleanliness being the first requisite in a
lady's dress.
	Such qualities of mind are brought into
action in connection with dress that we
cannot wonder at its having great influence
on the opinions that are formed of us. Who,
that sees a young lady very carefully array-
ed at a ball, and finds her when at home,
and not expecting company, in a torn or
soiled dress, can fail to draw conclusions un-
favorable to the character of the individual?
If you have a friend who has lately be-
come insolvent, and you see his daughters
appear, soon after, in new and costly gar-
ments, what are your feelings? Is not all
admiration of their costume lost, in the
sense of its betraying a want of common
honesty, thus to spend the money that be-
longs to their father's creditors? And does
not this exhibition of lax principles do
them more harm than any personal decora-
tion can do them good? Dress is a very fair
index of a young woman's neatness, indus-
try, economy, good sense, modesty, and
good taste; and she, who is at all times, in
her private as well as in her public hours,
perfectly well dressed, according to all that
we include in that term, must have many
of the substantial qualities that constitute a
good character and are essential to domes-
tic comfort. The character is much more
shown in the style of dress that is worn ev-
ery day, than in that which is designed for
great occasions; and when we see a young
girl come down to the family breakfast
in an untidy wrapper, with her hair in pa-
pers and her feet slip-shod, and an old silk
handkerchief round her neck, we know
that she cannot be the neat, industrious,
and refined person whom we would like for
an inmate. We feel equally certain too,
that her chamber is not kept in good order,
and that she does not set a proper value up-
on time. However well a lady has appear-
ed at a party, we would recommend to a
young gentleman, before he makes up his
mind as to her domestic qualities, to ob-
serve her appearance at the breakfast-table,
when she expects to see only her own fam-
ily; and, if it be such as we have just de-
scribed, to beware how he prosecutes the
acquaintance.
	To begin the day well it is necessary to
rise early enough to perform all the ablu-
tions necessary to health and cleanliness,
and to be neatly and completely dressed be-
fore breakfast. Your morning dress should
always be such that you would not be
ashamed to be seen in, by any accidental
visitor; and a clean muslin collar, or ruffie,
of the plainest materials, give an impress-
ion of far greater neatness than a colored
handkerchief. If you are suitably dressed
or the business of the morning, you are

[COLUMN 3]

ready to enter upon it at once and much
time is saved; you are not discomposed by
unexpected guests; and, if particularly en-
gaged, you can wear the same dress all day.
Very yonng girls are apt to think that the
most important item in their dress is the
material of which their frocks are made,
whereas that is really of the least conse-
quence. Clean stockings, neat shoes and
strings, smooth, well-brushed hair, and
delicately clean hands, nails, and teeth,
would make them look more lady-like, and
better dressed, in a cheap calico, than they
would be in the finest merino, or most costly
French silk without these accompaniments.
Those things which are most essential to a
neat appearance, are most within the reach
of everybody, and therefore the neglect of
them is not to be excused. Everybody can
mend stockings and gloves, however old
they may be; everybody can avoid break-
ing shoe-strings by wearing them too tight,
or having them become untied, by tying
them in false knots. Clean hands and nails,
and well-brushed hair and teeth, it is with-
in everybody's power to possess; and with-
out constant attention to these particulars,
the most expensive garments will fail to
produce the effect you desire. The same
honesty and self-respect which would keep
you from making a saving that you are
ashamed of, should prevent you wearing
anything, even out of sight, that you would
be ashamed to have seen, if sudden indisposi-
tion caused it to be exposed before stran-
gers. We should gladly adopt every con-
trivance for saving time and abridging the
labour necessarily bestowed upon dress.
Those who know how to use the needle af-
ter the best fashion of our grandmothers'
days, may next acquire the art of slighting
certain parts of their work, where it will
not interfere with durability, and so save
some thousand superfluous stitches in a
week. If it has been the misfortune of
any of my readers to have grown up with-
out being made good needlewomen, the
sooner they undertake to supply this defi-
ciency the better. A woman who does not
know how to sew is as deficient in her ed-
ucation as a man who cannot write. Let
her condition in life be what it may, she
cannot be ignorant of the use of her needle,
without incommoding herself and others,
and without neglecting some important du-
ties. Besides this, there is, in this truly
feminine employment, a moral power which
is useful to the sex. There is a soothing
and sedative effect in needle-work; it com-
poses the nerves, and furnishes a corrective
for many of the little irritations of domes-
tic life. Let no woman think herself ex-
empt from the duty of "plying the polish-
ed shaft." In every situation of life, she
will find herself the better for an early and
thorough acquaintance with plain sewing.
	SELECTED.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		39


