A Needle in a Haystack By Josephine G. Moench feeling that my end is near, I have a desire to chronicle some of the important events of my life. As far as I have been able to learn I am the only needle that was ever found in a haystack. This fact together with other in: portant and interesting happenings connected with my career gives me a desire to write a brief history of myself. Life in its fullness began for me when I reached the end of a long journey from Salt Lake City to a little town in the southernmost part of the State of Utah. As the boxes were being unloaded from the covered wagon and carried into the little store and unpacked, I heard a charming little voice say, "Oh, Mother, here are the knitting needles, can you set up my knitting tonight?" and the mother answered, 'I will if there is a set of needles left after those that we promised get theirs." I rejoiced that I was in the bottom of the box, for I longed to have for my mistress the little girl with the charming voice. I had not long to wait; before nightfall the little girl in a rapture of delight was carrying me and my three companions home. "Father says these are to be my very own," the little girl said as she ran to show her mother. My little mistress was to knit first some stockings for herself; and how delighted she was as she ran with her knitting to show her little sister, near the same age, who lived next door. These little sisters were inseparable companions; together they made their plans for the summer, talking of the stockings they would knit. What a delightful summer I spent with them. When I look back on it now, it seems that my three companions and I were the most important things in these charming little girls' lives. Every cozy little nook would be converted into a playhouse, and their knitting seemed to be the most important part of their play. In haying time, a favorite place to sit and knit was the stack of newly made hay, and one day I slipped from my littld mistress's hand into the hay stack. Search as they would, they could not find me. Oh, the tragedy of it! To wait for another set of needles to come from Salt Lake City would mean weeks, and the little sister would be whole stockings ahead in the knitting race. They searched and searched, but still I could not be found. Suddenly my little mistress said, "Let's pray the Lord to help us find it." Kneeling on the hay and bowing their little heads, they said their simple prayer. Scarcely had they begun their search again when they found me; and like the woman in A NEEDLE IN A HAYSTACK 395 the Bible who lost her silver and found it, they were happier thau if I had never been lost. When my little mistress related the incident to her mother, the latter said, "Perhaps you had better exchange needles with me. Yours is an extra fine set and I would be very sorry to have one lost." So I was transferred from my little mistress's knitting to that of the mother's. I soon learned to jove the little mother as I had loved my little mistress. I have rejoiced in her happiness and mourned over her sorrows. Her knitting seemed to rest her in body and in spirit; and as she sat knitting in the evenings after the hard trying days which only the pioneer women of Utah could know, happiness and peace would come and a serenity which only a patient and courageous soul can know. I began my memoirs as I lay where the dear hands had left me the night she slept peacefully away to awaken no more in this life; and I thought my cup of happiness was full when I saw her pass to the great beyond with no suffering. Another great happiness was to come to me. I am back orice more in the hands of my first little mistress, herself a grandmother now, and I look forward to spending many more happy hours with my first love. I listen with pride as she sits with her knitting and relates to her grand-children the story: of how I was lust and found in a haystack. The Pioneers Dust and heat, a trackless waste, Moving covered wagon train, Dull, slow thud of oxen hoof, Hunger, danger, thirst and pain. Onward, on, inspired band, Hearts that burn with truth and light; Blazing sun and dust by day, Lurking savages by night. Westward ho, to hills and vales, Westward ho, to promised land, Sage brush, rocks and dead salt sea, Alkali and oaken sand. Faith to light their dreary way, Truth to brighten miles they trod; In the shelter of the Rockies, They were free to worship God.