Pioneers STANLEY VESTAL'S KIT CARSON?THE HAPPY WARRIOR OF THE OLD WEST By Las V. Hales "On Christmas Day, 1809, an undersized, tow-headed, bandylegged, blue-eyed boy sped into the world, squalling lustily with an uncontrolled excitement which no later adventure could arouse in him. Small, bandy-legged, blue-eyed, and sandy-haired he remained to the end of his days, and to this unimpressive appearance the sun added freckles." Yet this boy, apparently no different from other lads of his family and community, was to be the archetype of the American pioneer. He was to become the hero "who personified American enterprise in the Far West?the banner which was to wave the pioneers forward into the Great American Desert." He was to become the hero of the prairies, the "soul of the Old West." In Stanley Vestal's new book, "Kit Carson," we have the authentic story of this boy as well as a vivid picture of the old frontier?the pioneer West. It is artistically, vividly, and authentically written. It follows Kit Carson down through his life as greenhorn, mountain man, plainsman, pathfinder, soldier, rancher, Indian agent, patriot and peacemaker. Even as a very young boy Mr, Vestal felt that there was something wrong with the standard biographies of Kit Carson, which portrayed him as a striking but unaccountable hero. These books did not relate Kit to the times he lived in, and he therefore seemed unreal and colorless. Mr. Vestal felt that now was the time to write to the adventures of Kit for soon "there would be no one who had talked face to face with his contemporaries, no one left who knew what a tepee smells like, or how a beaver trap was set, no one to make real the background out of which his adventures grew, and against which they must be seen." As Odysseus was a symbol of the Greek seafarings, so Kit Carson has become a symbol of the American frontier and it is important, Mr. Vestal says, that we "understand and love the thing Kit represents?that Frontier which made these States a Nation." Mr. Vestal knows the country over which Kit Carson ranged. He grew up with the Cheyenne and Arapaho Indians, the tribes that Kit knew best. Today Mr. Vestal is Professor of English in the University of Oklahoma and a writer of note. The Carsons had been pioneers since the first one left Scotland. Very early Kit saw the cruelty of life in the wilderness, and PIONEERS 397 his quick impulsiveness became "tempered by caution which nicely balanced the swift decision and passionate action so characteristic of the man." Kit became very early an expert trapper and Indian scalper. During the long winters while he could not trap beaver, Kit and his companions would tell stories around the fire. Here Kit heard of the "giants who lived on an island in the Great Salt Lake, giants who built immense log houses and ate corn from cobs a yard long. What folks thought to be forest fires was only the smoke from their pipes." Another story that fascinated Kit was that of a crystal mountain so beautifully clear that its location and size could only be guessed by the stack of bones of animals and birds which had broken their necks by running into it. Still another was the story about the echo in the Big Horns, which took eight hours to return, so that a man when going to bed could shout "Get up!" and next morning he would be promtly awakened by the echo "Get up!" During these long winters Kit made many friends and they were real ones. The very life Kit and his companions led called for real friendship. Kit won the reputation of absolute truthfulness and reliability. "The clear eyes and clear head, the unquestioning blue eyes of a man who first made sure he was right and then went ahead?these gave Kit Carson the character which made him the power he was among the trappers." As to the Indians Kit entertained no "silly twaddle" regarding humanity or their rights. He had been brought up to believe that every man should look out for himself. He killed no more Indians than was necessary; and all who knew him are agreed upon his mildness, gentleness, his chivalry to women, his courage, his coolness against hopeless odds, and his generally inoffensive manner. He was superstitutious. If he missed a fair shot in battle he would not fire at the Indian again but let him go. His ideas, according to Mr. Vestal, were childlike, traditional, unquestioned beliefs. He believed in God, in the right, in courage, honor, integrity, justice, and mercy. He belongs to the Old West and not the Wild West, which was the age of clowns and gunmen, the bandits and the land-grabbers, the gold-seekers. The blowing up of Bent's Old Fort marked the end of the Old West and Kit and his old friends saw the plains and mountains swarm with reckless, ignorant, stupid, untrained, undisciplined white men who incensed the Indians and brought on unnecessary and stupid bloodshed. Kit accompanied Fremont on part of his journey to St. Louis, where he delivered his Report, which determined the "Mormons" on their Westward march. Mr. Vestal closes his really scholarly and intensely interesting book "Kit Carson" with this paragraph: "But there was no pose in Kit Carson; and the West may hold his name high above the movie cowboys, the Wild West showmen,  the gaudy, strutting soldiers, the cruel killers, who clamor down the old, loyal, patient courage of the pioneer. For Kit was greater than all of them. "This is the happy warrior; this is he That every man in arms should wish to be." Hallowed Ground By Merling Denms Clyde O Death, where is thy victory? This plot Marked round by iron rim speaks dumbly here: Observe this resting place of pioneer. The right to worship as she chose, her lot She cast with those who marked an epoch great? Out West where freedom with their lives could mate; Made history in blood to seek their God, And fell, like her, a parcel of the sod. And when the great steel monster hewed its line Upon uncharted range and desert grim, Directly where warm rain and bright sunshine Caressed the snows on lonely grave's round rim? Great minds debated?gave her right-of-way; She sanctified the spot there where she lay. Rebecca Winters was a "Mormon" pioneer, enroute West with other Saints. She died and was buried in Nebraska. An iron wagon rim, with her name upon it, was placed around the grave. Later, when the Burlington Route came West, the grave was found to be directly in the line of its survey. When the railroad president was asked what was to be done, the answer came back, "Rebecca Winters has the right-of-way". Later, a monument was placed at the grave, and these words from a "Mormon" hymn engraved upon it: "And should we die before our journey's through, Happy day; all is well; We then are free from toil and sorrow too, With the just we shall dwell."