MARGARET MILLER WATSON DeWITT
Autobiography of Margaret Miller Watson De Witt
I was born in Glasgow, Scotland, January 16, 1841; the youngest of a family of nine children. My father's name was John Watson; my mother's, Jane Hosea Miller Watson. Among my earliest recollections of my father, who died when I was a small child, is my seeing him wrapped in quilts seated in a chair, while I played peek-a-boo with him through the glass in our door. When I was about fifteen years of age my sister Jane, six years older than I, joined the "Mormon" Church and emigrated to America. The members of the family felt that by so doing she had brought great disgrace to our family.
 
Early Life in Scotland
My mother died when I was twelve years old, and I lived with an elder sister, Belle, who sold the place and rented one little room for the two of us. During this time my sister Jane wrote to me in care of a friend, Agnes McKay, urging me to attend the "Mormon" meetings and investigate their religion for myself. This I did secretly?going to the meetings when my sister supposed I was attending night school. I was able to attend several meetings conducted by the "Mormon" Elders before my sister discovered my deception, which she finally learned from the factory girls. Thinking she was doing the proper thing, she gave me a severe whipping and warned me not to go near the Elders again. However, this only served to strengthen my determination to find out for myself all about the "Mormons" and "Mormonism."
I still continued my secret correspondence with my sister Jane, who lived in Holyoke, Massachusetts; and she sent me money to pay my passage across the ocean. I remember going to the bank and getting the money which I concealed in the bosom of my dress in the day-time and in my shoe at night. Very soon after this I left my sister Belle's home. We had eaten breakfast, and I left as if I were on my way to the factory. I saw the clothes spread on the green to bleach (she had washed the day before) and I picked up my night-cap and slipped it into my pocket. This was all I took with me except the clothes I stood up in.
The Flight to America
I went directly to my friends, the McKays, who informed me that the next sail-boat would not leave for two weeks. I couldn't go back home to Belle, so my kind "Mormon" friends, the McKays, hid me up for two weeks in the home of a widow who boarded me; the McKays paid her for her trouble. During this time the McKays outfitted me with clothes for my journey. Bills had been posted and rewards offered for my capture, so, fearing detection, I disguised myself when I went to the sail-boat. Just before boarding the ship I posted a letter to my sister Belle telling her not to continue her search for me as I was on my way to America.
I crossed the gang-plank and entered the ship. Then I went below into the steerage until the ship had started. I then went up on deck and took a last fond farewell of my native land. I was overcome with conflicting emotions as I saw it disappearing from my sight. For, though I was glad and eager to come to America, where I could learn more about "Mormonism" and join my sister Jane, yet I felt sad to leave forever my native land, my brothers and sisters and friends. I extended my
AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF MARGARET M. W. DeWITT 381
arms and cried, "Good-bye forever, old home"; and the ship, the Isaac Wright, bore me off.
A Hard Sea Voyage
Soon after leaving I became violently seasick and lay on the bare deck for relief. Having taken nothing with me except my clothing, I had nothing to lie on. A young woman came near me, saying, "How's this? Haven't you any folks to look after you? But no, I mustn't talk; I must do something." She went to the cook-room and made a little tea and toast. As I partook of it, my stomach became settled, so that I could get up and around. Soon I became more adjusted to life on board ship. From Liverpool to New York, we were on the sailing vessel six weeks and three days. When we landed at New York the McKay girl's folks met us there. A large crowd was present as we were getting off the ship. I kept saying aloud, "O have you seen my sister?" I hadn't heard the popular song then being sung, entitled, "O Have You Seen My Sister?" At once some one in that great throng caught up the words and sang it while the whole merry crowd began singing and laughing.
At Work in a Factory
I took the train from New York to Springfield, Massachusetts, where my sister met me. Words cannot express the joy of our meeting. I went with her to her home in Holyoke. There I remained with her and a group of emigrant girls. We worked in a factory, earning the money to pay our way to Utah. Having had experience in working in the factories in Glasgow, where there were five hundred steam looms on one floor, I felt at home in the work. They started me out with two looms; when my sister saw that I could handle them easily and still have plenty of spare time, she said to the manager, "My sister is an ambitious little girl and I'm sure she can handle more looms when you can give them to her." They gave me four for awhile, but soon increased it to six, the most ever given to any experienced girls in the factory. I made it a point always to be prompt; and the watchman would laugh as he held his lantern so that he could see my face as I sat at the big doors each morning waiting for him to open them and let me in. The minute the engine started I was at my loom. Some of the girls were always ten minutes or more late; when they remarked at my higher wages on pay-day, it was pointed out to them that ten minutes each day will soon amount to dollars and cents.
Saving for Three Years
We received our pay in an office adjoining the factory. Here
 
two men counted out the money, which was held in a big, seamless sack. The books were opened and the numbers of the looms were given. Then the girls were paid in cash. As I received my wages, I often heard the men whisper to one another, "Is that the one?" I was small for my age and my skill as a factory hand was talked about among the workers. We worked in this factory for about three years. Our boarding house was managed by two old maid sisters who had rented a large house especially for factory girls. We paid them each month; and outside of our board, lodging, and clothes, we saved every cent for our journey across the plains. My sister left for Utah three weeks before I did, as there was not room for both of us in the first company. I handed to the president of the branch sixty dollars in cash to pay my way to Utah.
Baptism at Night: Crossing the Plains
Before leaving for Zion, however, I had been baptized and confirmed a member of the Church. My sister and I had attended regularly the L. D. S. Services in Holyoke. Each meeting strengthened my faith, though I had believed the Gospel to be true from the first time I heard the Elders preach it in Glasgow. On account of the bitter opposition manifest by the anti-"Mormons" there, my baptism was performed at night. When I was taken to the river the ice was broken, and there I was baptized.
I traveled across the plains with Thomas Lyons, his invalid wife, and five children. They had two hired teamsters, each driving a large wagon-load of goods. I took care of their five children and cooked every bite that was eaten by our outfit of ten, from the time we left Florence, Nebraska, until we reached Salt Lake City. I walked all the way across the plains, carrying the baby much of the time. Sister Lyons had to be lifted in and out of the wagon, and had a special chair to sit on.
Incidents of the Journey
As soon as the men would pitch tents each night, I would prepare supper over an open camp fire, then get the children to bed. Often I did not get much sleep, the mosquitoes being very troublesome, and causing the children to cry and fuss a great deal. I had never cooked over a camp fire; when I needed information I counseled with some of the older sisters, who were very kind and willing to help me. I learned to bake light bread in a bake-oven. From each baking, we saved a piece of dough for our next batch of bread. There was one death in our company?an invalid man who could not stand the trip. His body was wrapped in canvas and buried in a grave, by which a service was held. All along our way we saw graves which the coyotes had dug into. AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF MARGARET M. W. DeWITT 383 I remember a marriage on the plains. After the ceremony we danced most of the night to the music of a fiddle. When about half way across the plains, I had to leave my new trunk because we were too heavily loaded. My clothes I put into sacks. We were three months crossing the plains, under the captaincy of Edward Stevenson. My sister heard of the company through the "Pony Express" and was. Ready to meet me. She had arranged for a place to work?for a Sister Elizabeth Howard, who lived eight miles south of Salt Lake City at Big Cottonwood. My sister had a place in Salt Lake City and we often visited. An Important Meeting With the first money I earned in Salt Lake City I purchased a new chest for my clothes. This was made by a Brother Thomas Ellerbeck, an excellent carpenter. I still have this chest and it is as good as new. The date of our arrival was September 16, 1895, with 350 souls and 150 wagons. That evening in the Howard home as I stood by the sink washing dishes, I noticed a young man come into the room?a tall, straight, handsome fellow. I nudged Sister Howard's daughter, who was wiping dishes, and asked, "Who is that?" "Don't worry. You may have him," she answered: I replied, "I don't want to fall in love." About six months later, when I was nineteen years old, this same young man became niy husband. I had no parents to go to for advice; so when he proposed marriage, I went to Bishop Brinton and asked him to advise me. His answer was, "You'll make no mistake, Margaret. If you marry Alec DeWitt." The Bride's Apparel Sister Howard had been like a mother to me; at the time of my marriage she dressed me completely in the very best. Of clothes. My wedding dress was a beautiful white, tucked all around the full skirt and trimmed with lace and white ribbon. Sister Howard engaged Eliza R. Snow and Sister Woodmansee to come to her home a week and sew on my wedding dress, sheets, pillow cases, quilts, and everything preparatory for my marriage. I felt like a princess to be so honored. The bishop, who was to marry us, was working on the jury that day; but he walked eight miles to our ward that afternoon in order to perform the ceremony that night. The New Home I had been afflicted with a sick headache during the afternoon and Sister Howard had sent me to bed. While I was there she and  her daughters had fixed up our little two-roomed cottage, which Brother DeWitt had rented for our future home. I was dressed, in my wedding finery as we walked to the bishop's home where we were married. Then we went to our little home. I noticed that it was all lighted up; and when we entered, we beheld a table laden with a feast?roasted chicken and everything that goes with it. My bed was all made up with new sheets and pillow cases and the beautiful quilt that Eliza R. Snow and Sister Woodmansee had made. We then spent a happy evening with the Howard family and the bishop's family. Mrs. Howard was an excellent cook and the banquet she and her girls had prepared was delicious. Brother DeWitt had brought a load of furniture from Salt Lake City; it had been unpacked and put in place. The new dishes were in a cupboard he had made. All this was a surprise to me. Abel Alexander DeWitt Prior to our marriage, my husband had been investigating "Mormonism" and was really converted to it, but postponed being baptized because he didn't want it said of him that he joined the Church to get the girl he wanted. He was baptized about two weeks later. My husband, Abel Alexander DeWitt, was born October 6, 1826, in Perry County, Indiana. He had traveled extensively? had seen South America?and was on his way to California to seek his fortune. Although he had really feared stopping off at Salt Lake City because of the numerous warnings he had heard that if he did the "Mormons" would kill him, he finally stopped over and found a job at Howard's. There he investigated '"Mormonism" and embraced it. He died at Woodruff, Arizona, on September 16, 1913. The Children of the Household While living at Cottonwood we were blessed with six children: Lucy Jane was born March 28, 1861 and died at Salt Lake City July 16, 1923. Sarah Huldah was born March 26, 1863 and died November 18, 1904 at Lehi. Alexander was born October 1, 1865, aid is still living. Elijah Reeves DeWitt, born February 18, 1867, still lives. Elizabeth Catherine, born June 5, 1870, died April 29, 1904, at Thatcher, Arizona. Margaret Lenora was born July 20, 1872, and died August 13, 1873, at Big Cottonwood. We moved to Kanab, Utah, where our next three children were born: Martha Ann, born October 8, 1874, died December 29, 1879, at Kanab. John Daniel, born November 5, 1876, is still living. William Washington DeWitt was born January 10, 1879 and died December 1, 1907, at Woodruff, Arizona. AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF MARGARET M. W. DeWITT 385 Called to Arizona We were called by Church authorities to cross the Colorado and help settle Arizona, so we moved to Springerville, where our. Last three children were born: Rhoda Ellen, born March 27, 1881, died October 24, 1888. Jesse Dillis DeWitt was born April 23, 1883 and is still living. Mary Eliza was born July 24, 1885 and died July 24, 1885. When Jesse was about eight years old, we left Springerville ' and came to Woodruff, where I am still residing. When my last child was born, I was at death's door, but through the faith of the elders I was spared. Word went out: Sister DeWitt is dying. The elders left a 24th of July celebration they were attending; they came and prayed for me, and I rallied. Always a Relief Society Worker I was set apart as a Relief Society teacher after my first child was born. I have served as an active teacher in that organization ever since?a period of sixty-seven years. IJ am still an active teacher in the Woodruff ward. I used to go teaching in Big Cottonwood, carrying my baby on my arm. The bishop's wife, Sister Brinton, used to say, "Be sure to stop'last at my house." She would always have a delicious supper pieyeass saying to us, "The servant is worthy of his hire." Though I am now eighty-eight years of' age, I still enjoy working in the capacity of a Relief Society teacher?a calling that I consider one of the greatest. Editor, Relief Society Magazine: I am sending a life sketch of Woodruff's oldest resident, "Grandma" DeWitt, written as she dictated it to me. Her record as an active Relief Society teacher is perhaps unsurpassed. A loving, laughing, witty little Scotch lady, very active for her advanced age, she is usually present at the dances and social activities. A year ago I danced the Old Year out and the New Year in with her! Her constant attendance at Relief Society meetings, and her keen interest and active participation in the lessons, proclaim her fertile brain and sympathetic heart. Always eager to improve, she learned to play the organ after she was sixty-five years of age, to be able to accompany herself as she sang the songs of Zion; and though rheumatism has incapacitated her hands for playing, she often sings. Her greatest joy is reading. When she is at home, she is generally in her "reading nook" near her shelves of books by a light, cheery window. We love her for her gracious manner, her enthusiasm and optimism, her sincerity and courage?one of earth's chosen spirits. To this little community, her life is an inspiration?Eunice I. Gardner.