By Willard Greene Richards
Where winter's icy blizzards lashed; Where summer's sun blazed overhead; On nature's broad primeval plain Were camps of modern Israel spread.
By tyranny's ungodly host From civilization thrust apart, No hand to stay, none to redress, Nor yet to ease the aching heart.
The sick and dying prostrate lay, Oft none to heed their call. Mob-driven from their fields, their shops, Their homes, their earthly all.
By hope revived; by faith sustained; God-guided through their tears, So set they forth to lead the way? A band of Pioneers.
Faced they the West?its trackless plains, Its mountains grand and grim? A band of picked men brave and true, Strong both of heart and limb.
By day they toiled; by night they slept, But guards were placed with care,? Each morn and eve they homage paid And worshiped God in prayer.
When mighty river barred their way, Defiance in its roar, They plunged into its foaming depths Or bridged its waters o'er.
Where road was none they builded well; Like giant hand that clears, They wrought for those who followed them, Unselfish Pioneers.
Through rock-rimmed gorge they pushed their way; Through mountains' tangled wood, Where stately pines in majesty Like silent sentries stood.
At last their eyes beheld a scene Majestic, broad, and grand. The "Modern Moses" looked upon The modern promised land.
THE PIONEERS 369
He had been shown in dream divine, In troubled days agone, "It is enough, this is the place; This is the place?drive on!"
So spake he by the Spirit's lead, As did the ancient seers, And pondered they his every word Those faithful Pioneers.
So entered they the promised land And broke its virgin soil, And planting seeds, they made them grow By dint of patient toil.
Turned they the streamlet from its course And, guided from its brink, The water clear o'erspread the land And gave the earth to drink.
So founded they a commonwealth Within the valley broad, And chose a spot on which to build A temple to their God.
Their memory shall not be dimmed By time. Through all the years We'll honor them for what they wrought, Immortal Pioneers.
Special Announcement
The General Board of the Relief Society will offer two prizes of $100 each, one to be given for the best drama based upon the Book of Mormon; the other to be given for the best opera inspired or suggested by the Book of Mormon. Contest open to all who wish to make entries. Contest to close December 31, 1929. The rules of the contest will be published in the August issue of the Relief Society Magazine.