[WomansExponent | Vol27 | 1898 | August | Issue: 5 | Title: SALT LAKE STAKE. | Author: Unknown]

SALT LAKE STAKE.
	Minutes of the Salt Lake Stake Relief
Society conference held in the Assembly
hall June 4, 1898.
	Morning session. On the stand were
Counselors A. T. Hyde and C. C. Cannon.
Counselor B. W. Smith of the General
board, Sisters E. S. Taylor, E. Stevenson,
L. D. Alder and M. W. Wilcox. Meeting
opened by singing “God moves in a mys-
terious way.” Prayer by Sister L. D.
Alder. Singing “What was witnessed in
the heavens.” Counselor Annie T. Hyde
presided. The secretary not being present
Sister Lydia D. Alder was called to act in
that capacity. Roll call showed a large at-
tendance of officers.
	Counselor Hyde welcomed the sisters
and stated that President M. I. Horne had
been thrown from a buggy and was bruised
about the face, but hoped she would be able
to meet with us yet; also spoke of the nurs-
ing class and requested President E.S. Tay-
lor of the General board of the Y. L. M. I. A.
to address the conference and state her
feelings in regard to the class.
	Sister Taylor said she thought the move-
ment a grand one “To think that one
hundred and fifty of our sisters can obtain
a good training to enable them to nurse the
sick and also to nurse their own families
skillfully! I am proud that some of our
young ladies have volunteered to take this
course of study. A nurse should love to do
good, love those around her and be cheerful
in the presence of the sick. Many of you
may never be called upon to nurse the poor,
but should you, your heart should be so
generous that you will be willing to bless
others, then you will have the greater re-
muneration. The Lord loves the poor and
desires to take care of them. Think well
about this matter, it may be the opportuni-
ty of your lives.”
	Counselor B. W. Smith heartily endorsed
the movement spoken of by Sister Taylor
and urged the sisters to study for the beau-
tiful calling, to bless the sick and afflicted.
	Sister E. J. Stevenson also spoke in ref-
erence to the nursing class, earnestly ad-
vocating the organization of the same.
	Singing “We thank Thee O, God for a
prophet.” Counselor A. T. Hyde spoke of
the class, thought it would indeed be a
blessing to all who participated in it, and

[Column 2]
read some of the regulations pertaining
thereto,. Sister Hyde introduced Dr.
Roberts who stated the conditions on which
the class was to be organized. There were
some questions asked and answered, so that
a thorough understanding might be reached.
	Dr. E. S. Barney spoke on the subject of
nursing and encouraged the sisters to press
on and acquire knowledge.
	Lydia D. Alder being called upon made
a few remarks pertaining to the class, ex-
plaining some of the good that would re-
sult from it.
	Sister Sarah J. Cannon also endorsed the
movement and made some excellent re-
marks. Sister M. W. Wilcox followed,
felt that God had charge of the movement.
	Dr. Roberts called upon the sisters who
proposed entering to meet her at the lecture
hall in the Templeton at 1 o’clock sharp for
organization. Conference adjourned until
2 p. m., by singing “Do what is right.”
Benediction Clara C. Cannon.
	Afternoon session. Opened by singing
“Our God we raise to thee.” Prayer by
Sister Mary J. Lambert. Singing.
	Sister Elizabeth Webb addressed the con-
ference, spoke of the great facility now en-
joyed by those who strive after knowledge,
also the opportunities for a knowledge of
the truth of the Gospel which we enjoy.
	“Who are these arrayed in white?” was
beautifully rendered by Sisters Maggie Hull
and Maria Winder.
	Sister Mary A. Hyde spoke of the signs
of the times, counseled the sisters not to
find fault and closed by speaking in tongues;
interpreted by Sister Elizabeth Paul.
	Counselor Mary L. Morris of the Primary
board of the Stake, said: “There is noth-
ing outside of this Gospel for me. Do not
cease to love the Gospel.”
	Sister Lydia D. Alder spoke of the great
mission of the Prophet Joseph, and the im-
portance of the Book of Mormon explaining
the wonderful vision of Nephi, from that
record.
	President Steele reported the 1st ward;
President Silcock, Riverton; President Bassett
the 2nd; also the 9th, Forestdale, Taylorsville,
Union, 22nd, 24th, Murray, Center and East
Jordan, were reported in a flourishing con-
dition by their presiding officers.
	Counselor Hyde made closing remarks
and gave instructions to the Relief Society
which were timely, also spoke of the wheat
hoping they would bear in mind the de-
sire of President Horne; announced that the
nursing class had been formed and would
open at 10 o’clock on Monday, June 6, at
the Templeton, spoke encouragingly to the
sisters and felt to thank the faithful sisters
who had conducted the singing. Confer-
ence adjourned until the first Saturday in
September. Singing “The time is far
spent.” Benediction by Elizabeth Webb.
			L. D. ALDER, Act. Sec.

