[WomansExponent | Vol27 | 1898 | August | Issue: 5 | Title: HOTEL METROPOLE. | Author: Unknown]

HOTEL METROPOLE.

Avalon, Santa Catalina Island, Cal.
					July 8, 1898.
Dr. Pratt, President, and ladies of the
		Press Club:
	I send you my most cordial and affection-
ate greetings; my sincere wishes for a
pleasant and restful summer.
	I will tell you as briefly as I can in a
letter what I have been doing since I left
Utah. Two weeks were given to San Fran-
cisco and vicinity, with frequent calls at
Camp Merritt. The boys were quite well
and a credit to their state, but disappointed
that they were left as home guards when
they expected to sail soon for the Philip-
pines; but they need not be impatient they
may have their chance for active service
and destruction. While it looks now as if
the end were not far in the future, I am one
who believes the war will be long, I have
never felt quite sure it would end in a few
weeks. My sojourn was pleasant as I have
many dear friends there, while much time
was devoted to sight seeing.
	The last of June we came to Los Angeles,
“City of the Angels,” the garden of Eden
as one friend remarked, and truly with
Pasadena, Riverside and Santa Monica it is
the garden spot of California, though not so
beautiful as when I visited the place four
years ago—owing to the drouth. As usual
we had an earthquake, light said the people,
but it wakened me from a sound sleep and
my bed rocked three times and it was noisy.
A friend at Redoude said there was a wall
of kelp several feet high in front of their
cottage, so there must have been quite a
disturbance somewhere. We visited the
ostrich farm, not nearly so interesting as
the one at Phoenix, Arizona, the birds are
not so large.
	One of the most lovely halting places of
my journey was at Avalon, on Santa Cata-
lina Island. The train took us to San
Pedro harbor, we embarked on the steamer
Falcon and were soon plowing the blue
waters of Santa Catalina channel, the island
is about twenty miles distant. The trip
across is a delightful experience, we were
told, that a person must be extremely sen-
sitive to suffer with sea sickness, but a large
majority were sensitive. The sky is clear,
the water blue, the air balmy, the flying
fishes dart from the waves and fly an eighth
of a mile. Something over two hours sail
and the magic island is reached. Santa

[Column 2]
Catalina is an island twenty-two miles long;
greatest width seven and a half miles; cir-
cumference sixty miles; area fifty-five
thousand acres. It abounds in lofty moun-
tains, deep gorges, stupendous rocks, cliffs
and precipices, and in winter is a semi-
tropic garden.
	Avalon, upon the bay of that name, is
the fashionable resort of Southern Califor-
nia. The Metropole is the principal hotel,
there are cottages and a city of tents, which
many prefer to the comforts and conven-
ences of the hotels. From C. F. Holder’s
“South Catalina and Isles of Summer.”
“The discovery within the present decade
of some papers in a public library of Mad-
rid, Spain, which proved to be an account
of the voyage of Juan Rodriguez Cabrillo,
a Portuguese navigator in the service of
Spain.
	“The caravels of Cabrillo La Victoria and
San Salvador, discovered the islands in
September, 1542; and as they cruised in
the vicinity for several months there is
every reason to believe that the quaint ves-
sels found shelter in the harbor of Avalon
and the land-locked bay of Catalina on the
south coast, and that the explorers held
communication with the natives who at
that time had towns or villages in the
mouth of almost every cañon of the island.
	Cabrillo named the islands of San
Clemente after his ships, and probably
landed at Avalon where it is known was a
large and populous Indian village on the
site of Hotel Metropole.
	“Sixty years later Philip III. of Spain
ordered the viceroy of New Spain, Gaspar
Yuñiga, Conde de Monterey, to equip an
expedition, which sailed from Acapullo
under the command of Sebastian Vizcaino,
May 5, 1602. About the first of December
the caravels came to anchor in the harbor
of Avalon and Vizcaino called the island
Santa Catalina. He describes the natives
as a fine looking race dressed in well cured
skins, the town as having large dwellings
and numerous rancherios, their canoes were
large, the men were expert fishermen.
They showed Vizcaino some damask cloth
which they said came from a wreck, sup-
posed to be that of the ship San Augustin
which sailed in 1595 under Captain Sebas-
tian Rodriguez Cermeñon, to make dis-
coveries on the California coast and was
never heard from.
	“When Cabrillo discovered Southern
California it had a large population; today
352 years later this is represented by a
pitiful handful of natives who are scat-
tered about the foothills or the missions;
by graveyards despoiled and by the quaint
stone implements plowed up by the modern
ranchers.”
	We went out in the glass-bottomed boat,
the waters are so clear that objects at a
depth of fifty or more feet can be seen dis-
tinctly. You gaze down into the depths
and most wonderful are the sights. Among
the moving beds of kelp with long green
and bronze fronds reaching upward, float-
ing with the tide were the gold fish, the
man would call our attention to the differ-
ent fish and tell us where to look. See that
delicate green-hued kelp fish, then a black
ray, there an eel, sea serpent, an octopus,
sea snails, starfishes, sea urchins and a tiny
blue fish, and in the shallow waters the
rocks were covered with sea-anemone, and
there were most beautiful shells—altogether
a beautiful and fairy like spectacle.
	We had the drive, or island coach ride in
which the six in hand takes the rider up

[Column 3]
the mountains and over the summits to Lit-
tle Harbor. The coach road winds up the
hill to the south to a height of 1600 feet,
every turn brings new bits of coast into
view, with headlands, mountains and hills
and the blue waters until the summit is
reached, where the view is most beautiful
of San Clemente, Santa Barbara Island, San
Nicolas, the lofty range of the Sierra Madre,
all forming a beautiful panorama. I
bought a curiosity, the Serebratula, ob-
tained by deep sea soundings, and is the
shell the Romans took their idea of the Ro-
man lamp from. It is rare and very old.
	I began this letter then laid it aside.
Have written it at intervals and a portion
blew away. I will send what is left of it
with best wishes.
			HELEN V. KIMBALL.


