[WomansExponent | Vol27 | 1898 | August | Issue: 5 | Title: BIENNIAL IN DENVER. | Author: Unknown]

BIENNIAL IN DENVER.
	The Biennial meeting of the General
Federation of Clubs held in Denver, Col,
commencing Thursday, June 22, and clos-
ing Monday 27th, was without doubt an
unparelleled success. It was the largest and
most influential gathering of women of its
kind, that has ever assembled for really


[Column 1]
literary purposes. There can be no ques-
tion of the significance of such an auspicious
movement along the broad lines of higher
and more liberal thought and loftier pur-
poses, as well as the power of awaking the
consciousness of developing in all directions
latent gifts and capabilities in the human
soul, contact with each other is a force in
itself, and the club motto “Unity in Diver-
sity” was greatly accentuated in this re-
markable convention or congress. Hun-
dreds of bright an[-] [---] intellectual wo-
men meeting to compare notes, methods of
work and of discipline must very effectually
emphasize the movement aud bring women
to a better understanding of each other, and
the lines of work along which all may ar-
rive at a more complete aud harmonious
uplifting of human life. It must surely be
a motive power in moving the world in
many ways and teaching the purer soul-les-
sons of love.
	We are glad the proceedings are to be
published in book form, for in no other way
could an adequate idea be obtained of the
entire work accomplished. Much good seed
has been sown that will eventually spring
up, blossom and bear rich fruit, and the
bread cast upon the waters will return in
good time. The women of America may
look confidently forth into the next decade
for greater and better results than hereto-
fore achieved. Darkness is fleeing away
and. the light of truth, is bursting forth to
illumine the world.
	It is utterly impossible to “tell it all,” or
even to mention the names of the grand
women who were present at the Biennial,
names that carry with them so much mean-
ing to those who know the individual wo-
men, and therefore we can only say a word
or two of them and the great welcome ex-
tended to the Federation entire by the Den-
ver people; we give in another part of this
paper the address of welcome of the elo-
quent Governor of Colorado which speaks
in plain terms of their hospitality and mag-
nificent generosity, and as the Governor of
the state so was the Mayor of Denver, and
in like manner the people of the city and
the region roundabout.
	The banners, flags, flowers, plants and
vines with which Broadway theatre was
decorated were all suggestive of the senti-
ments patriotic and large-hearted that was
apparent on all sides. Among the organ-
zations that kept open house with all due
ceremony and courtesy and appropriate
paraphernalia was the Equal Suffrage Asso-
ciation, Press Association, Daughters of the
Revolution, Daughters of the American
Revolution and Colonial Dames, and served
tea, lemonade, wafers, candies etc. The
elegant homes of several citizens were
opened for receptions where beautiful wo-
men received and refreshments were served
by other women equally as pretty and
graceful—then there was a Garden party
given by the Press in charming private
grounds with fine music and tables under
the trees among the flowers, a most enjoy-
able place to meet friends, acquaintances
or strangers, people from north, south, east
and west, really it was all to much to be-
lieve and one can only say “the half can
never be told.” even though one tries to
remember. There were Trolley rides, ex-
cursions to gardens and parks, the long
days. ride around the Loop—all this and
much more and three meetings a day, why
it fatigues one to think of it only as we re-
member how delightful it all was.
	We shall never be able to tell what 

[Column 2]
charming women, intellectual, artistic,
brilliant, sentimental, grand and tender
were the many celebrated women from dif-
ferent parts of the country, authors, artists,
singers, musicians, clever in special lines
and with such exquisile taste and tact, one
wonders how it was possible for so many
women with such marked individuality to
affiliate so happily as they did.
	Jane Addams of Hull House fame stands
almost on a pinnacle in her economic, phil-
anthropic, enterprise for industrial women.
Mrs. Sydney Webb of England is also
very famous along these lines. Mrs. Webb’s
speech was “How to do away with the
sweating system.” Many young women
work in this direction, Corinne M. Brown
and women still younger representing work-
ing girls’ c[-]ubs of very large numbers, the
history of which was unique and the young
women an inspiration in their presence,
Miss Burkhardt, Miss Mathews, Mrs. Kem-
ler, Miss Haas and Miss Harrington.
	The authors most notable and best known
were Miss Agnes Repplier, Mrs. Ruth Mc-
Enery Stuart, Mrs. Kate Tannatt Woods
whom the writer has known for many
years, and who is now sojourning for a
time in this city, and who knew the cele-
brated Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes, Ralph
Waldo Emerson and all those famous con-
temporary celebrities. Some time soon we
will give our readers a sketch of her life
and work, and here we must mention Miss
Alice French (Octave Thanet) and Helen M.
Winslow, editor of The Club Woman, the
official organ of clubs. When one comes to
newspaper women they were there from all
parts of the country, a very fine represen-
tation. In the world of art Mrs. Candace
Wheeler, the most famous woman, and
Miss Anna Caulfield deserve special men-
tion. In education Mrs. Mary E. Mumford,
Mrs. Harriet Heller, and Mrs. Ellen M.
Richardson and Mrs. Calvin S. Brice, in
the National University of Mrs. Richard-
son we desire to write later on. In Parlia-
mentary authority Mrs. H. R. Shuttuck and
Ellen Spencer Mussey, and in looking over
the list one stands appalled at the long ar-
ray of names of distinguished women in
literature, art, science, reform and indus-
trial progress.
	The Utah delegation did creditable work
and made a good representation and Utah
came in for her share of honor, one mem-
ber of the board of directors in the General
Federation, Mrs. Antoinette B. Kinney,
also Mrs. Martha B. Royle was placed on
the Roll of honor of the G. F. W. C., a dis-
tinction which Mrs. Royle rightly deserves,
a position which she will certainly dignify.
	It was a great source of satisfaction to the
writer that a Southern woman was elected
president of the Federation, Mrs. Rebecca
B. Lowe of Georgia, and we believe and
feel assured she will be liberal in her
views and magnanimous in her work
and prove herself a genuine, whole-souled
leader for all sections of this free country.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
