[WomansExponent | Vol27 | 1898 | August | Issue: 5 | Title: WOMAN’S WORK IN WAR. | Author: Unknown]

WOMAN’S WORK IN WAR.

	Nowadays one has daily the war and the
news pertaining thereto with all its varia-
tions of battles fought and unfought on sea
and on land. To publish a paper that con-
tained no war news at all would be an ex-
ception to the general rule, for we have
war news the first thing in the morning
and the last thing at night, and one dreams
of the war waking or sleeping; and yet to
give anything like a summary of reliable
war dispatches in a little paper only pub-
lished at intervals of two weeks or more is
out of the question.
	The news which makes one fear and
tremble at present is the sickness prevailing
in those hot climates where our soldiers are,
and if the people ever need to exercise
mighty faith it is in view of the fevers pre-
valent in the camps of the soldiers in hot
weather. When one reads that Gen. Shafter
reports 3,770 cases in the army in Cuba,
which it is said gives the war department

[Column 2]
concern, how is it with the mothers, wives
and sisters as well as sweethearts of the
men and boys who have gone forth in the
full strength and glory of their physical
health to fight for their country? It is in-
deed a serious matter and when women feel
they can only watch and pray at home how
difficult it is to be reconciled. Tennyson
says:

			‘More things are wrought by prayer,
Than this world dreams of. Wherefore let thy
	voice
Rise like a fountain for them night and day.”

Joanna Bailey:
					“A goodman’s prayers
Will from the deepest dungeon climb heaven’s
	height
And bring a blessing down”

Young in his “Night Thoughts:”

“Prayer ardent opens heaven, lets down a stream
Of glory on the consecrated hour
Of man in audience with the Deity,”

	Coleridge in the Ancient Mariner: “He
prayeth best who loveth best.” And wo-
man it is conceded, loves most and truest
her dear ones therefore should never cease
to pray, God grant us grace to do our part
as women if it be only in prayer, and let us
also pray for peace.
	But there is work to be done for the sick
and distressed and all who can should lend
a helping hand to the Red Cross and War
Relief Association in some of the various
methods and ways in which actual help is
being given to those who have not the op-
portunity of doing or getting necessary
things for their own comfort and relief or to
prevent pain or suffering.
	It is difficult to understand how women
can sit idly by and not endeavor to aid in
some way those who at this particular time
need positive help, and so as well as to
watch and pray, there is also work; and to
be at work is sometimes a panacea for pain
of mind or heart. Those who want to
give and have not the means, some of them
at least can give time and thought and by
the needle and in various other ways assist
in the Red Cross or Relief work. A few
women are giving of their time, their
means, their hearts to this noble work for
those deprived of home and friends and
the things they are now needing and to
which they have been accustomed when in
the home circle. The widow’s mite is just
as acceptable now as when our Savior was
upon the earth, and the beautiful saying
holds good everywhere and at all times,
and so one should not hesitate to give a lit-
tle.
	The overtures from Spanish government-
al powers are somewhat encouraging in
favor of an armistice but not altogether ac-
ceptable, the taking of Manila, the victory
of Santiago, Dewey’s wonderful achieve-
ments, and all the advantages so far known
do not give us peace and there is great un-
certainty as to the future, and the sorrows
and cruelties and barbarisms of war make
one shudder at the very thought, and to be
in the midst of such scenes is more than
terrible.
	We had hoped to give here an account of
Red Cross work in the State but could not
get an entire report nor an approximate, we
know, however, that it has been very credit-
able and will give the figures and particu-
lars later.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


