[WomansExponent | Vol27 | 1898 | August | Issue: 5 | Title: READ AT THE U. W. P. C., MAY 31, 1898. | Author: Unknown]

READ AT THE U. W. P. C., MAY 31, 1898.
	When we catch our first glimpse of the
Mediterranean about 1500 B.C., it is dot
ted with the sails of the Phoenician navi-
gators. They crossed the Mediterranean
in every direction distributing the manu-
factures of Asia.
	The longest voyages that they made were
to procure tin. which was in great demand
for the manufacture of “Bronze.” The near-
est regions where this metal was found was
the Caucasas on the eastern shore of the
Euxine (now called the Black sea.) To-
wards the close of the 11th century B. C.,
the Grecians were jealous and closed the
Ægean sea against these navigators. The
Phoenicians pushed out into the western
Mediterranean and opened the tin mines of
the Herian peninsula (now Spain.) A
hasty sketch is all I can give of the general
features of this period upon which we are-
now entering.
	The Phoenicians established naval sta-
tions and trading posts. Articles of Phoeni-

[Column 2]
cian workmanship are found in the earliest
tombs of the Greeks and Etruscans. The
Phoenician navigators were enterprising.
They built the Hellespont bridge for Xerxes,
they furnished ships for the King of Baby-
lon for naval operations, and they circum-
navigated Africa, an undertaking remark-
able considering the age, 604 B. C., 2’000
years before the Portugese navigator,
Magellan.
	The political strifes between 1500 B.C. to
133 B. C., when Spain became a Roman
province are too numerous to mention.
Nearly eight hundred years elapsed when
Alaric held his sword over Rome and threat-
ened its destruction if his demands were
not granted. Alaric was obliged to force
his way into the city, and Rome paid the
penalty of not yielding to him.
	For several years after the Saracen in-
vasion Spain was broken off into a number
of small but independent states. The king-
dom of Asturia, or Leon, had been growing
in power and in 758 A. D. a second king-
dom was founded in Sobrave. Thirty-six
years afterwards was founded the third
Christian kingdom, that of Navarre, and in
933 another independent monarchy was
formed in Castile and soon became the
most powerful of the Spanish states. The
kingdom of Arragon was the last founded.
	In 1035 A. D. there was a division in
Castile and Arragon, and they were not
united until the marriage of Ferdinand
and Isabella. King John II of Arragon
was greatly pleased at this match; he was
deeply sensible of the importance of consoli-
dating the monarchies of Spain under one
head. The marriage articles were signed
on the 7th of January, 1469, but the cere-
mony was not performed until the 19th of
October, 1469. So great was the poverty
of the parties that it was found necessary to
borrow money to defray the expenses of
the marriage.
	There were five children born to Ferdinand
and Isabella. The eldest daughter, Isa-
bella, was married to Alonzo, the heir to
the crown of Portugal, in 1490. Prince
John, heir to the Spanish crown, married
Margaret, daughter of Emperor Maxmillian.
Johanna married Phillip, son of Maxmillian.
Donna Catalina the youngest daughter,
married Arthur, Prince of Wales, (after-
ward to his brother, Henry VIII.) Prince
John married in April and in October of
the same year was stricken down with
fever and died. The prince dying without
an heir the crown of Castile and Arragon
descended to the son of Isabella of Portugal
who was confirmed by the Cortez of Castile.
Thus the three crowns, Castile, Arragon
and Portugal were suspended over one
head. This young heir died when about
two years old. Isabella of Castile died in
1506, and before she died she exacted a
promise confirmed by an oath from Ferdin-
and (of whom she was always jealous) that
he would not marry again. The death of
Isabella was the signal for disorder which
the genius and authority of Ferdinand were
unable to suppress. While the queen’s re-
mains were scarcely cold Ferdinand took
the usual measures for announcing the suc-
cession and renounced the crown of Castile in
favor of Joanna and Phillip, and to their
eldest son, Charles I. of Spain, on the
death of his mother. The reckless extra-
vagance and licentiousness of Phillip so
troubled the queen that she grew morbid
and finally her malady became incurable.
Phillip long since ceased to treat her with
[-]ffection of even decency, and fain would


[Column 1]
have persuaded the Cortez to authorize her
confinement as a person of disordered intel-
lect. Phillip’s reign was short as he died
on the 25th of September, 1506. Ferdinand
held the reins of government for Joanna;
finally his desire for a son to succeed him
was so great that shortly after Isabella’s
death he married Germaine, daughter of his
sister, (Leanora the queen of Navarre,)
His wish had nearly been realized, Queen
Germaine was delivered of a son in March
1509, but the infant only lived a few hours.
Ferdinand began to be impatient and mor-
bid and his health declined so rapidly that
it was evident that his days were numbered.
He passed the last month of his life at the
country seat of the Duke of Alva, and died
in January, 1516.
	By the death of his grandfather, (Ferdin-
and) Charles I. took possession of the throne
of Spain by the title of Charles V. On the
death of his paternal grandfather (Max-
millian) he was elected Emperor of Ger-
many. Under the reign of Charles V.
the nation continued to advance higher and
higher and he seemed to take everything
before him, until in 1552 he was obliged to
flee before Duke Maurice of Saxony. The
season of the most brilliant results is not
that of the greatest national prosperity, the
boasted reign was dearly purchased by the 
decline of industry and the loss of liberty.
Charles V. celebrated his own obsequies,
his domestics marched in funeral procession
with black tapers, he followed in his
shroud and was laid in his coffin with great
solemnity. The length of the ceremony or
the impression which this left on his mind
so affected him that he resigned his crown
and retired to a monastery and died in
1558.
	Phillip II. was the son of Charles V. and
Isabella of Portugal, he was an accom-
plished linguist and mathematician and a
connoisseur in architecture and fine arts.
In 1554 he married Mary Tudor, Queen of
England, daughter of Henry VIII. and
Catherine of Arragon. After Mary died he
made an attempt to gain the hand of Eliza-
beth but was unsuccessful, and finally mar-
ried Isabella of France. His life  was no-
toriously wicked and licentious, his suffer-
ings were terrible, his body was entirely
covered with ulcers; his death must have
been a great relief to him and all around
him.
	In 1598 on the death of his father Phillip
III. came to the throne, he was married to
Margaret of Austria, his second wife was
Isabella of France. His reign of twenty-
three years was chiefly noted for the cruel
expulsion of the Moors from all parts of
Spain where they had sought refuge during
the last reign. In 1609, 600,000 individuals
were forcibly driven from their homes and
landed on the shores of Africa, there to be
treated even worse by the most cruel and
perfidious of the human family.
	Phillip IV., son of Phillip III. and Isa-
bella of France, began to reign in 1621. In
1615 he married Elizabeth of France, his
second wife was Marie Anne of Austria.
He ascended the throne when but seven-
teen, he was extravagant and dissipated,
his reign was most unfortunate, he was at
war with France, Holland, Sweden and
England. In 1640 Portugal freed herself
from Spanish yoke. Since the days of
Roderick the Goth, a more disastrous reign
than his had not darkened the annals of
Spain.
	Charles II., son of Phillip IV. and Marie

[Column 2]
of Austria was feeble in body and almost an
imbecile in mind. His first wife was Louise,
niece of Louis XIV., and his second wife
was Mary Anne of Newbery. Charles was
the last of the Austrian dynasty. Glorious
as the condition of Spain was under the
earlier sovereigns it was brought now to the
verge of ruin. For nearly three centuries
it had held the foremost rank in Europe as
a military nation; now it began to decline
both in influence and glory.
	Charles II. was childless and bequeathed
his throne to Phillip V., Duke of Anjou.
Phillip V. was the grandson of Charles II.
half-sister. He was the second son of
Louis the Dauphin of France and Mary
Anne of Bavara. He assumed the title of
King of Spain by virtue of the will of
Charles II. His throne was contested by
the House of Austria in favor of Arch Duke
Charles. Phillip was the first of the Bour-
bon dynasty who occupied the throne of
Spain, and this was the occasion of the wars
of the Spanish succession. Phillip was
married twice, first to Princess Marie Louise
Gabrielle of Savoy, his second wife was
Elisabeth Farnese of Parma. Phillip be-
came a victim to melancholia and abdicated
in favor of his son Louis. Louis died a few
months after of small pox, and Phillip was
obliged to take the reins of government,
In 1731 Phillip invaded Naples and took
possession of that kingdom and gave it to
his son Don Carlos.
	Phillip V. was succeeded by his son
Ferdinand VI., surnamed the “Wise.” He
ascended the throne in 1746. Ferdinand
did not share his ambitious step-mother’s
desire for conquest in Italy, and withdrew
from war, recalling all his armies so quick-
ly from Italy that all the northern part fell
into the hands of the Austrians, who treat-
ed the people with the greatest inhumanity
and even attempted to harness them to
their heavy-artillery. During the thirteen
years of his reign he was one of the most
just and humane of the monarchs who ruled
over Spain. He promoted the welfare of
his country, reorganized the navy, en-
couraged and established manufactures,
and by his judicial and political conduct
placed his brother on the throne of Naples.
Ferdinand married Magdalene Theresa of
Portugal. He died in 1759. 
	Ferdinand left no heir so the throne
descended to his brother, Charles IV. of
Naples, and Charles III. of Spain. Charles
was a very good man, for promoting educa-
tion, reforming and expelling the Jesuits in
1767. Before this time England became
alarmed at the naval preparations of Spain
and declared war in 1762, and took Havana
in Cuba and Manilla in the East Indies.
After several years peace was declared and
Havana was restored.
	Charles III. died in 1788, and was suc-
ceeded by his second son Charles Anthony,
Prince of Asturia (the eldest son was in.
capable of inheriting' the crown.) Charles
IV. was married to Maria Louise Theresa
of Parma. Charles was governed entirely
by Manuel Godey, the lover of his wife and
an instrument of Napoleon’s. The second
revival of the country commenced, trade
aud commerce began to show signs of re-
turning activity. During this reign war
broke out with Great Britain, resulting in
disaster to Spain. In 1804 another war
arose and resulted the same. In 1808
Charles abdicated in favor of his son
Ferdinand VII. but two days afterwards
privately protested.

[Column 3] 	
	Shortly after the prince was elevated to
the throne, he and his father were induced
by Napoleon to take a journey to Bayonne,
but instead of pleasure to find themselves
prisoners in the hands of Napoleon. They
surrendered the crown to Napoleon and he
transferred it to his brother Joseph. The
Supreme Council of Seville declared war
against. France and Napoleon. England
recognized Ferdinand as king and sent an
army to aid the Spanish. After many
bloody battles the French were driven from
the country. In 1813 Ferdinand VII. was
restored to the throne. He married the
notorious Christina who bore him two chil-
dren, Isabella and the Infanta Maria Louise.
Having no sons Ferdinand revoked the
Salic law which excluded females, and es-
tablished a regular succession to the throne
of Spain, females as well as males.
	Ferdinand died in 1833 and bequeathed
his crown to his daughter Isabella. His
brother Don Carlos contested the legitama-
cy of the throne, and this led lo a long and
disastrous war. Isabella II. was only three
years old when she was proclaimed queen.
Don Carlos and his son refused to take the
oath of allegiance and a civil war broke out
which raged for seven years. Don Carlos
reduced to the last extremity fled to France
for refuge and renounced his claim to the
throne of Spain. Isabella’s mother Christina,
and Esparten the “Duke of Victory,” were
appointed regents during her minority. At
the age of thirteen she was proclaimed of
age and at sixteen was married to her cous-
in, Don Francisco de Assis. Married
against her will to a man said to be unfit
for the conjugal state, the private character
of Isabella has been exposed to much cen-
sure and scandal.
	Ever since Isabella ascended the throne
disorder and dissatisfaction seem to be
characteristic of Spain, and in 1845 Don
Carlos made another attempt to gain the
throne of Spain for his son, Charles Louis
“Prince of Asturia.” Isabella with her
royal daughter set out for Barcelona but
was hooted and insulted through the streets.
The cause of this was that she wanted a
bill passed which would place the chief
municipal appointments in the hands of
the crown and deprive the inhabitants of
of the towns of any control over their func-
tionaries. She carried her measure but
there was such an uproar she was obliged
to yield. In 1841 quite a dispute arose
between Christina and Esparten, each one
wanted to be sole regent. Esparten was
elected and continued at the head of the
government until the 14th of July, 1856,
then Gen. O’Donnell was appointed presi-
dent. O’Donnell did not reign long; he
was obliged to resign on the 13th of Octo-
ber, and a new ministry was formed under
Gen. Narvaez. On the 28th of November
the queen gave birth to a son who as heir
to the kingdom took the title of Prince of
Asturia. The insugentsand royalists were
always fighting and in 1868 Isabella was
dethroned and with the king and her four
children took refuge in France. A new
president took the field, Marshall Serrano,
there was much dissatisfaction and all kinds
of parties formed, and an unforeseen diffi-
culty arose, the rebellion of Cuba. It be-
gan at Mauganillo on the 10th of October.
Manuel Cespedes was chief of the Cuban
forces and asked for recognition for the 
new Republic of Cuba, this rebellion re-
mained throughout 1869. Then the Spanish
began to look around for a king.


In 1871 the Cortez elected Prince Amedeo
of Italy to be king. Finding the task a
hopeless one Amedeo abdicated in 1873,
then the form of government was changed
to a Republic. In 1874 Spain was the
scene of general anarchy and much blood
was shed.
	In December 1874, Alphonso, (Isabella’s
son) was declared king. In 1877 Alphonso
married Mercedes, a daughter of the Duke
and Duchess of Montpensier, thus fulfilling
a part of the scheme of Louis Phillip of
France. Mercedes was a beautiful woman,
an angelic disposition, and the first and
only love of Alphonso. The honeymoon
was scarcely over when Mercedes began to
droop and fade and died in 1878. The
Spanish people insisted upon an heir to the 
throne so the following year Alphonso mar-
ried Marie Christina, the daughter of the
Austrian Arch Duke Ferdinand. In 1885
Alphonso died and six months after a son
was born. Little Alphonso was not only
born a king but came into the world in
the presence of his Ministers of State, Cabi-
net officers, members of the regency and
Privy council. A rumor had been circu-
lated that a bogus heir would be placed up-
on the throne, and that was the reason that
every consideration of privacy due to a wo-
man at such a time had to yield to the de-
mands of political situation. Marie Chris-
tina is regent during the minority of Al-
phonso. According to the laws of Spain
the king attains his majority at the age of
fifteen. The little king is twelve now, what
will be left for him to rule over remains to
be seen.
	The queen regent is very much disliked. 
She began by losing the friendship of her
people and then lost their sympathy, now
she is about to lose their respect. She is
said to follow the advice of her mother, the
Arch Duchess Elizabeth of Austria, when
any difficulty arises. She surrounds her-
self with cardinals and bishops who are the 
masters at the Court. She almost remains
in retirement when there are requests for
her presence. The queen was not present
a few weeks ago at the patriotic "Gran
Co[-]rida," the receipts of which were des-
tined for the national subscription. The
Spanish people do not know her, conse-
quently can have no sympathy for her.
	Don Carlos has never been so near the
throne as now, his partisans grow daily
more numerous and powerful. If the queen
cannot keep her people together and the
little king has to abdicate, will it be a
Monarchy or a Republic? War abroad
and revolution at home—such is the condi-
tion of Spain now. A movement against
the queen regent has been started and seri-
ous complications will probably arise before
long. It is said from a reliable source that
a majority of the Spanish people would like
to be rid of the Phillipines and Cuba, and
that they ought to be given to the Ameri-
cans without war; however, that will be
left for those who come later.
	We will glance over the interval since
elapsed, during the first half of which the
nation wasted itself on schemes of mad
ambition, and the latter half has sunk al-
most into a state of oblivion. In glancing
over this period we must confess that the
reign of Ferdinand and Isabella was the
most glorious in the annals of Spain.
