[WomansExponent | Vol27 | 1898 | August | Issue: 5 | Title: NOTES AND NEWS. | Author: Unknown]

NOTES AND NEWS.

	The bill raising the age of protection for 
girls in the District of Columbia to eighteen 
passed the U. S. House of Representatives 
before adjournment. 
	Until the remonstrants produce a second 
Clara Barton, it will remain true that the 
most effective type of patriotism has come 
from the ranks of the suffragists. 
	On “Club Woman’s Day,” at the Trans-
Mississippi Exposition, Mrs. Kate Tannatt 
Woods of Salem, read a paper on “Club
Courtesies,” and Mrs. Ellen A. Richardson 
of Boston, spoke on “The Keystone of the
Educational Arch.”
	A Law Committee consisting of Mrs. 
Halsted Smith, Rome; Mrs. Frances Akin, 
Cartersville; Mrs. Walter Hill, Macon; and 
Mr. E. Cameron Reed, Atlanta, have fin-
ished their arduous task of making extracts 
from the code of Georgia upon the law of 
the State regarding woman’s legal status. 
The work is well done and is receiving uni-
versal praise wherever the pamphlet is re-
ceived. 
	In England the woman suffrage cause 
has lost two of its oldest friends in Parlia-

[Column 2]
ment. The Hon. C. P. Villiers, “the
Father of the House,” who died at the age 
of ninety-six, on Jan. 16, had never failed 
to vote for the measure from 1870 to 1892,
when he came at great personal inconven-
ience to record his vote for Sir Albert Rol-
lit’s Bill. Mr. George Dixon, M. P. for 
Edgbaston, has also voted since 1870, but 
not so frequently, as he was absent from 
Parliament for several years. 
	The Woman’s National Cuban League 
at Washington, which was an active factor 
in furthering the Cuban cause last fall, has 
reorganized, adopted the old charter and re-
elected its former director-general, Mrs. 
Clara Bell Brown, and its vice director-
general, Mrs. Rosa Louisa Townsend, a 
great granddaughter of one of the signers 
of the Declaration of Independence. The 
purpose of the reorganized league is to give 
aid and comfort to American soldiers and 
sailors. 
	The army hospital ship, Relief, which 
has been fitting out at New York during 
the past month, is the most perfect vessel 
of its kind in the world. As compared 
with the Solace, the navy hospital ship, the 
Relief is superior in structure, speed, ac- 
commodation and equipment. Its berths
for sick and wounded number 1,300, and 
nearly a hundred additional patients can be 
cared for in an emergency. The ship will 
carry a crew under contract, not belonging 
either to the army or navy. The nurses 
will number ten male and eight female
The former are from Mills Training School 
in New York City, and the women from 
John Hopkins Hospital Training School at 
Baltimore. Ex. 
	Mrs. M. E. W. Sherwood tells this anec-
dote in her new volume of reminiscences,
“Here and There and Everywhere.”
“I was present at many dinners when 
Willis was the life of the company, and al-
though I did not hear the famous repartee 
of the Washington dinner so often recorded, 
I will record it here. It was Mrs. Gales, I 
think, who at one of her own dinners wrote 
a card to her niece at the other end of the 
table: “Don’t flirt so with Nat Willis.”
She was talking vivaciously herself to Mr. 
Cambell. Willis replied:
“Dear aunt don’t attempt my young feelin[-]s to 
	trammel,
Nor strain at a Nat while you swallow a Cam-
	bell.”						Ex.


