[WomansExponent | Vol27 | 1898 | August | Issue: 5 | Title: UTAH VOLUNTEERS. | Author: Unknown]

UTAH VOLUNTEERS.

		Oakland, Cal., June 14, 1898.
Editor Exponent:
	Perhaps some of your readers would like
to hear from the brave soldier boys who so
gallantly offered their services to their
country and who arrived several weeks ago.
I went across the bay to see those boys
whom the papers said were the finest equip-
ped, the most highly educated and alto-
gether the best specimens of manhood that
had volunteered for Uncle Sam.
	The city of tents was located on the Bay
District race track, adjoining Golden Gate
park and in full view of the ocean, where
they had the full benefit of the cold fogs
that greeted them every day and their soft-
est bed was sand. The Utah artillery had
decidedly the best of any of the regiments,
for they had a whole block to themselves
with cannon in the center and tents around
the edge, whilst the others were packed
closely.
	The Utah boys with their war accou-
trements sailed for Manila this morning
thousands turned out to cheer them and
wish them a pleasant voyage and a safe re-
turn. The California people have treated

[Column 2]
the twelve thousand men here royally.
They have been guests of the city as far as
Uncle Sam would permit, they have had to
eat pork and beans and do their own wash-
ing. And oh, those boys and men doing
their own washing! A whole month’s wash
would consist of one shirt, one towel and
three pairs of socks with the heels rubbed
off when they were washed. As for baths,
they will remember those they had and
look forward to those they expect to get.
They seem to think they are on a picnic
except when they roll in a blanket and lie
on the sand. I asked a friend of mine if he
had an allumium badge, he said “No, what
is it for?” I answered softly, “So you can
be identified if anything should happen.”
The tears came into his eyes and he said,
“Oh they can identify me, but nothing will
happen to me.” Then he inquired about
the badges and I told him the good, patri-
otic people of San Francisco and Oakland
had made arrangements to supply every
soldier with a badge, his name and country
and state engraved upon it, to be placed
upon a buckskin string and worn around
the neck, then there were flannel bandages
for every one and comfort bags with things
that soldiers need, where they have no
mother or wife near.
	Everybody has been very busy here and
are hard at it to feed this army of men as
they arrive, it is a very big undertaking,
and so many of the companies came with-
out even a change of underclothing and no
shoes, absolutely destitute, but the people
have supplied every want and I feel sure
San Francisco will be remembered when
other things are forgotten.
	There are many funny things happen out
at camp. One of the boys committed a
misdemeanor and a policeman took after
him, but the soldier ran into a tent with
the officer in close pursuit. The guard
told the officer to halt but he thought he
was the law, but before you could wink he
was taken to the guard house and locked
up for the night. Whilst one of the com-
panies was drilling in double quick time the
Captain fell into a gopher hole and as each
man came on he fell till fifty were piled
there. Every day there is something funny
happens and I am glad they do have a good
time. You would hardly expect it on
$13.00 per month salary, but they don’t
have to treat either a lady or a gentleman.
If a soldier goes out with a lady she pays
for everything and is honored to do it. Ten
soldiers got on the car when I did and a
wealthy girl paid their fare, and that is the
way it is all the time. If the war don’t do
another thing, it has made us all more
patriotic and self-denying and has brought
us all closer together. I am proud of the
volunteers and I am proud of the Utah
boys and of the people who provided for
them so liberally that it has been comment-
ed upon a number of times. I only hope
they will have an opportunity to distin-
guish themselves at Manila. They are the
only artillery company that came and the
only cavalry company so that they may
make a hit, let us hope so. My heart
gees out to them as they sail away, let us
hope they may all return safe.
