[Vol31 | July 1944 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Time Energy and Fatigue Dorius]

Time, Energy, and Fatigue Costs of Housekeeping Activities Claire P. Dorius I pledge allegiance to the United States of America, and promise to keep myself physically and mentally fit, because it is my first responsibility as a citizen.?Mary K. Browne, Deputy Director (National Fitness Program, Office of Civilian Defense, Washington, D. C. FORTUNATE are the home.
Makers who have developed the right kind of philosophy toward homemaking. Our mental attitude regarding the job before us is extremely important.
Through experience and training we build our philosophies of life.
These philosophies differ as men and women differ. A family's philosophy of life forms a basic guide for the conduct of its members. The goals of homemaking grow out of this philosophy. It may take years to reach some of these goals, others will come more quickly.
Much of the success and happiness we achieve in homemaking comes by having the right attitude toward the work we have to do. "An attitude," says Thomson, "is the result of habitual modes of conduct and in turn becomes a determiner of future conduct." The man and wife who are responsible for the shaping of the new home life begin their task with two sets of attitudes which they have developed out of their past experiences and the system of behavior of the family from which each has come.
Their shared experiences and methods of behavior build a third set of attitudes.
These three sets of attitudes form the basis of the new family's philosophy.
Management and the direction of the physical activities in the home are an inseparable part of the building of family life. In a large measure, the character of the home is determined by the managerial ability and the personal qualities of the woman who assumes the responsibility of the homemaker. The efficient use of the time and energy she has at her disposal determines to a great extent her success or failure. It is possible to increase the interest in homemaking, which leads toward success, by working out a plan of your own.
Questions such as the following may serve as a good checkup: Am I spending my time on the things that mean the most to my family? Do I spend time enough in the companionship of my husband and children? Do I spend enough time in planning my work? Have I trained my family to share in the homemaking activities? Am I spending sufficient time in sleep and rest? In personal care? In activities outside of the home? Have I the right attitude toward my homemaking responsibilities?
What improvements can I make in my time-spending practices?
Physical fitness is necessary if one expects to measure up to the above questions.
Fatigue is often the stumbling block (Continued on page 391)

Those who desire further reading on the subject of fatigue are referred to the following magazines and books: BenyAMIN, "Heads High, Backs Straight," Ladies' Home Journal, vol. 59, p. 115, April 1942. Furnace, H., "Make Your Spine Behave," Ladies' Home Journal, vol. 59, p. 58, November 1942. _ Myerson, A., M. D., "Remedies for the Housewife's Fatigue," Ladies Home Journal, vol. 47, p. 115, March 1930. Ryan, A. H., M. D., "The Tired Housewife," Ladies' Home Journel, vol. 50, p. 26, September 1933. TREGONING, "Outwitting Homemakers' Fatigue," Hygeia, vol. 16, 1938. WE su, Cuar. OrTte R., "Saving Your Figure," Hygeia, vol. 18, March 1940. (Tells how the mother-to-be can regain her former figure.) Wixxss, E. T., M. D., "Start Early for Good Posture," Parents Magazine, vol. 17, p. 28, February 1942. America's Housekeeping Book, Chapter 26
FisHer, Dorotuy CanFIELD, The Homemaker. Gross AND Lewis, Home Management, F. S. Crofts & Co., New York. NickELL AND Dorsey, Management in Family Living, John Wiley & Sons, Inc., New York.
CLEAN PLATE CAMPAIGN
East South Temple Street Salt Lake City 10, Utah "THE BOOK CENTER OF THE INTERMOUNTAIN WEST" When Buying 
Mention Relief Society Magazine Home Canning Is Always In Style... For years our mothers and grandmothers filled their fruit rooms with bottles of summer-fresh fruits. And home-makers of today "put up" fruit to insure their families nourishing, appetizing foods throughout the winter months... And to release the commercial pack to our fighting men. For More Than Forty Years U and I Sugar has filled bins in western homes, to be used for cooking, canning and for all sweetening purposes. It's grown and refined in the west.
