[Vol31 | July 1944 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Article | Title: Yugoslavia (Continued from page 366)]
the  Slavic  state.  The  agitation  to  between  Yugoslavia  and  Hungary 
preserve  areas  occupied  by  Mace-  which  almost  led  to  war,  because 
donians  has  precipitated  bitter  feel-  the  headquarters  of  the  Croatian  ex- 
ings  with  Hungarians  and  Greeks  as  tremists  were  in  Hungary  near  the 
well  as  with  the  nationalistic  Mace-  Yugoslav  border,  and  because  before 
donians  themselves;  the  quarrel  with  the  assassination,  the  Hungarians, 
Italy  over  the  important  Adriatic  despite  repeated  protests,  had  been 
port  of  Fiume  forced  the  settlement  unable  to  control  the  radical  move- 
of  1924,  known  as  the  Treaty  of  ment.  Fortunately,  however,  for 
Rome,  whereby  Italy  was  awarded  the  peace  of  Europe,  the  Council  of 
the  coveted  city,  while  Yugoslavia  the  League  of  Nations  was  able  to 
received  the  port  of  Baros  and  a  solve  the  crisis  to  the  satisfaction  of 
fifty-year  lease  on  part  of  the  fine  both  parties, 
harbor  of  Fiume.  Access  of  the  Meanwhile,  Alexander's  eldest 
Yugoslavs  to  the  Aegean  Sea  was  son,  a  boy  of  eleven  years,  was  pro- 
guaranteed  through  treaty  with  the  claimed  King  Peter  II.  Under  a  Re- 
Greeks  in  1925.  This  pact,  modified  gency  Council,  the  new  government 
in  minor  details  in  1929,  provided  set  about  to  establish  order.  Oppo- 
for  (1)  the  creation  of  a  free  zone  sition  leaders  were  arrested,  and 
covering  94,000  square  meters  at  anti-government  meetings  were 
Salonica,  the  area  to  be  under  Greek  broken  up.  However,  the  Croats  re- 
legal  and  police  surveillance  but  to  fused  to  co-operate,  and  their  leader 
be  under  Yugoslav  customs  admin-  Matchech  made  it  clear  that  his 
istration;  and  (2)  the  abolition  of  people  would  never  be  satisfied  un- 
tariff  rates  for  goods  passing  between  til  the  Croats  were  granted  an 
the  free  zone  and  the  Yugoslav  autonomous  position  in  Yugoslavia 
frontier.  analogous  to  that  of  Hungary  in  the 
The  centralizing    tendencies    of  Dual  Monarchy  before  World  War

YUGOSLAVIA 
365 
I.  It  was  clear,  therefore,  that  in 
1941,  the  year  of  the  Nazi  invasion, 
the  conflict  between  federaHsm  and 
centrahsm  in  Yugoslavia  seemed  lit- 
tle nearer  to  a  settlement  than  it  had 
in  1920,  first  year  of  the  existence  of 
the  new  Slavic  kingdom. 
As  an  organized  state,  Yugoslavia 
officially  collapsed  on  April  17, 1941, 
when  the  Yugoslav  minister  of  war 
and  the  chief  of  staff,  on  the  author- 
ization of  Premier  Dushan  Simino- 
vitch,  but  without  the  knowledge  of 
the  rest  of  the  government,  signed  a 
capitulation  agreement  with  the 
German  command.  Within  a  week 
the  partitioning  of  the  hapless  state 
was  completed  according  to  Nazi 
plans.  For  his  Quisling  in  Serbia 
proper,  Hitler  appointed  General 
Milan  Nedich,  of  the  Yugoslav  army, 
an  ardent  German  sympathizer.  The 
Fuehrer  permitted  the  Bulgarians  to 
overrun  parts  of  south  Serbia  and 
Yugoslav  Macedonia,  and  loosed  the 
Magyars  on  Noyvodina.  Croatia 
proper  was  made  an  "independent, 
free  state,"  under  Quisling  Anti 
Pavelitch,  appointed  by  and  sub- 
servient to  Italy's  dictator,  Musso- 
lini. 
The  Italians  were  permitted  to  oc- 
cupy the  Croatian  coast,  Monte- 
negro, Dalmatia,  and  a  part  of  Her- 
zegovinia.  The  Germans  held  Sara- 
jevo, the  capital  of  Bosnia,  and  a  few 
other  key  points  in  Herzegovinia 
and  Serbia. 
The  occupation  of  Yugoslavia,  as 
was  expected,  was  accompanied  by 
much  bloodshed  and  terrorism. 
Nazi  leaders  were  quick  to  take 
advantage  of  and  to  exploit  the 
many  factors  and  circumstances 
which  had  kept  the  country  divided 
and  in  constant  turmoil  and  conflict. 
Thus  federalists  were  enticed  to  op- 
pose more  vigorously  the  centralists; 
Roman  Catholics  were  set  against 
adherents  of  the  Greek  Orthodox 
faith;  Croatians  and  Slovenes  were 
incited  against  the  domineering 
Serbs;  the  urban  bourgeois  were  en- 
couraged to  take  up  arms  against 
guerrilla  bands  of  rural  Communists. 
In  this  chaotic  struggle  between  the 
contending  factions  of  the  South 
Slav  state,  the  Communists,  fed  in 
spirit,  at  least  in  part,  by  the  inspira- 
tion of  their  mother  country,  Russia, 
appeared  to  advantage.  This  was 
natural.  The  cause  of  most  of  the 
people  in  Yugoslavia  was  emotional- 
ly, nationally,  socially,  economically, 
geographically  closer  to  Russia's  than 
to  any  other  great  Power's. 
Thousands  of  Yugoslav  peasants 
organized  into  guerrilla  bands  called 
Partisans,  determined  to  fight  to  the 
death  the  Nazi  and  Fascist  invaders, 
but  also  to  resist  with  equal  fury 
those  who  by  force  of  arms  tried  to 
destroy  their  Communistic  organiza- 
tion. 
On  the  other  hand,  there  were 
many  peasants,  impregnated  v^th 
Nazi  and  anti-Communist  propa- 
ganda, who  saw  in  the  warfare  con- 
ducted by  the  Partisan  guerrillas, 
only  a  renewed  menace  to  their  own 
safety  because  the  ruthless  activities 
of  the  Partisans  were  provoking  the 
Nazis  and  Fascists  to  even  greater 
acts  of  terrorism.  In  this  fearful  situa- 
tion, toward  the  end  of  1941,  some 
peasants  had  organized  into  anti- 
Partisan  guerrilla  bands.  In  some 
instances  this  counter-guerrilla 
movement  was  supported  by  those 
who  wanted  to  end  the  revolution 
by  a  program  of  compromise  or  ap- 
peasement. Yet  stronger  than  the  ap- 
peasing tendency  of  the  anti-guerril-

366 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JULY   1944 
las  was  the  tendency  to  fight    the 
enemy  at  any  and  all  costs. 
A  FTER  liberating  the  South  Slavs, 
what  steps  should  be  taken  to 
insure  the  happiness  of  these  war- 
torn  people?  What  should  form 
the  bases  of  reconstruction?  First 
of  all  it  should  be  increasingly  clear 
that  if  Yugoslav  unity  is  to  be  as- 
sured, some  form  of  federalism  in 
the  political  arrangement  must  re- 
place the  pre-war  centralism,  which 
had  made  possible  the  domination 
of  the  Serbs.  How  many  auto- 
nomies or  semi-autonomous  units 
there  will  be  in  the  Yugoslav  fed- 
eration is  left  to  the  future.  Certain- 
ly there  should  be  a  united  Serbia,  a 
Croatia,  a  Slovenia,  a  Montenegro. 
Perhaps  an  autonomous  Bosnia, 
Herzegovinia,  or  even  Yugoslav 
Macedonia  should  be  created.  Be- 
yond this,  the  idea  of  a  still  wider 
Balkan  federation  with  Yugoslavia 
included  as  a  single  unit  might  be 
desirable,  and,  from  an  economic 
point  of  view,  decidedly  advanta- 
geous. 
The  unfortunate  experiences  of 
the  Yugoslavs  in  the  past,  under 
dominant  French,  Austrian,  British, 
German,  and  Italian  influence,  has 
prompted  the  peasantry,  and  this 
means  the  fighting  guerrillas— the 
real  liberators  of  the  state— to  look 
toward  Russia  rather  than  to  west- 
ern Europe  and  America  for  aid  in 
the  solution  of  their  problem. 
If  liberation  should  be  achieved 
by  the  autumn  of  1944,  it  is  esti- 
mated that  fully  1,500,000  Yugo- 
slavs will  have  perished  in  warfare, 
by  execution,  starvation,  and  epi- 
demics at  home  or  in  German  and 
Italian  slavery,  and  by  other  meth- 
ods of  depopulation.    This  means  a 
loss  of  about  ten  per  cent— an 
astounding  figure.  Hundreds  of  vil- 
lages and  towns  are  completely  de- 
stroyed; those  partially  ruined  arc 
beyond  count.  When  liberation 
comes,  about  eight  million  people  in 
Yugoslavia  will  be  undernourished 
and  inadequately  clothed.  There 
will  be  at  least  a  half  million  recent- 
ly orphaned  children.  The  food 
supply  will  be  low.  For  more  than 
two  years  an  enemy  army  of  525,000 
men  has  been  eating  off  the 
country,  whose  production  in  1942, 
at  best,  was  less  than  half  of  normal, 
owing  to  guerrilla  warfare  and  other 
dislocations.  The  problem  of 
economic  rehabilitation  in  the  en- 
tire Balkan  area  undoubtedly  will  be 
one  of  the  most  acute  and  complex 
of  the  problems  at  the  Peace  Con- 
ference. 
One  thing  certain,  the  new  Yugo- 
slavia will  want,  more  than  anything 
else,  a  guaranteed  freedom  from 
tyranny.  The  guerrillas,  especially, 
will  demand  relief  from  despotism 
and  terrorism.  The  Yugoslavs  will 
demand  a  new  order  of  things— col- 
lective security,  collaboration  with 
neighboring  peoples— a  safeguard 
against  a  recurrence  of  the  experi- 
ences of  the  past.  They  will  resent 
and  resist  to  the  utmost  any  attempt 
to  restore  the  old  regime. 
Finally,  there  is  a  genuine  demand 
among  the  people  for  the  establish- 
ment of  democratic  institutions 
Each  component  part  of  the  feder 
ated  state  should  draft  its  own  con- 
stitution, which  should  include  a 
Bill  of  Rights  with  the  minimum 
guarantees  of  freedom  of  speech,  as- 
sembly, petition,  and  religion.  The 
democratic  idealism  of  the  Yugosla\- 
in  its  larger  sense  is  best  expressed 
(Continued  on  page  tjgo)