[Vol31 | July 1944 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Article | Title: Sketch of My Life Smith]

What was the background of this youth in his fifteenth year of life that so shaped him to be the one who would rock the very foundations of the Christian world, which were laid, as the Lord had told him, upon "a form of godliness but denied the power thereof?" Briefly, they were those of a boy reared in a family of integrity, virtue, and purity of heart, made real by faith in God which is often enhanced in humble surroundings. Joseph Smith was born in Sharon, Windsor County, Vermont, on the twenty-third day of December, 1805. In his tenth year, he with his family moved to Palmyra, Ontario (now Wayne) County, New York.
Some four years later, the family moved into Manchester in the same county. Joseph's father, an honest farmer, had found himself in hard financial circumstances, having lost much of his holdings through the unscrupulous acts of a trusted friend.
Seven sons and three daughters, Joseph being the fourth child, made up the family of Joseph Smith Senior."
Into the new Ontario County of western New York together with the (1) Documentary History of the Church, Vol. I, p. 2, and Writings of Joseph Smith 2:4, list six sons and three daughters as constituting the children of Joseph Smith, Senior and Lucy Mack Smith.
History of the Prophet Joseph by Lucy Mack Smith, pp. 36-37, and Life of Joseph Smith by George Q. Cannon, p. 5, list seven sons and three daughters. Is omitted in the first two references. The name of a son, Ephraim, born March 13, 1810, died March 24, 1810, LESSON DEPARTMENT Smith family had come many other people, mostly poor and plain in dress and manners.
These helped to swell the then thinly populated regions. One thing in common had touched all these early upstate settlers, and that was religion. The Bible was read and regular church attendance expected.
Camp meetings and religious revivals brought enthusiastic crowds to be swayed by the eloquent words of the leading ministers of the various sects, who cried, "Lo here! And Lo there!" Palmyra, then but a small community, was not without its religious denominations. As if to indicate the intensity of the religious rivalry at that time, four of the faiths in this small town held their meetings on opposite corners of the same crossroads. The Smith family in the year 1820 was divided on matters of religion.
Four of them had joined the Presbyterians. Young Joseph himself had inclined toward the Methodists, but he was troubled not so much as to a specific church as to the reasons for all the disunion that existed among the faiths. "What is to be done?" he wrote, "Who of all these parties are right; or, are they all wrong together? If any one of them be right, which is it, and how shall I know it?" (Writings of Joseph Smith 2:10). It was in this state of mind that he one day read the Epistle of James, the first chapter and the fifth verse, which reads: "If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him." "Never did any passage of scripture," he wrote, "come with more 401 power to the heart of man than this did at this time to mine." He believed, and acted upon his belief. The Bible is the word of God; why then should not God do as He had said! He would!
What sweeter faith and reasoning is there to be found than that of youth when it cuts through to the true source of knowledge! By this simple act of belief which sent Joseph to pray, he did more than find the answer to his personal problem. He reached the heart of His Maker who having found again true humility could shape a great prophet and right a darkened world once more?a world sadly in need of the power as well as the form of godliness. Yes, Joseph was the instrument and 1820 the year. God would begin then for the last time His work of the fullness of salvation among men. And through the efforts of this humble boy would the world come, as of old, to know of eternal life.