[Vol31 | July 1944 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Article | Title: Time, Energy, and Fatigue Costs of Housekeeping Activities (Continued from page 383)]

PHYSIOLOGISTS agree that fatigue resulting from muscular activity is due to the inability of the body fluids to maintain normal composition during the time when activity is speeded up.

Muscles consume fuel and give out energy. A substance known as glycogen is the energy-producing material in the muscle. This substance is formed by the muscle tissue from sugar products brought to it by the blood.

When muscular activity occurs, the glycogen unites with the oxygen in the blood stream, freeing energy and forming lactic acid and carbon dioxide—both waste products which interfere with continued muscular activity. The blood then brings oxygen from the lungs to the muscle cells; and the lactic acid is removed by the oxidation and conversion into glycogen.

Thus the oxygen carried by the blood from the lungs to the muscle cells helps in the removal of the lactic acid in the muscles.

During moderate muscular work the above operation proceeds rather normally with little or no fatigue resulting. But if the work is strenuous or prolonged, the oxygen cannot be supplied fast enough to reconvert all the lactic acid formed in the muscle cells.

When this happens fatigue or a diminished capacity for work results. It is necessary, therefore, to allow time for the muscles to recuperate. The development of fatigue during or near the end of the day is unavoidable for most people. Nevertheless, according to Gilbreth, fatigue ought to be overcome within a twenty-four hour period. If fatigue mounts too early in the day, it is considered something of a danger signal; it indicates an unbalance of work and rest.

Indecision and dislike for a task bring on fatigue more quickly than if one has developed skill and the right attitude toward the job one has to do.

Skill always lessens muscular strain.

Fatigue or tiredness may disappear completely as interest is developed in the task.

Improved working conditions result in the saving of time and energy.

Places for tools and materials should be made easily accessible. In order to maintain a good posture, comfortable working heights for all kitchen work surfaces should be adapted to the height of the worker using them.

Good posture is the position which requires the expenditure of the least amount of energy.

Time to keep oneself physically fit is essential for greater service. This includes mental and emotional health as well as bodily well-being.

Establish a few routines to obviate conscious effort.

Revamp your plans whenever necessary for greater efficiency. As you work persistently to acquire habits of efficient use of time and energy, try to guide others into similar ways. "By losing present time, we lose all time."—John Ray.
