Assisted by master organists, and with its membership of more than three hundred spending many hours gratuitously each week in rehearsal, it is small wonder that this organization has won acclaim and is today setting a high standard for Church and choral music of the country. The music broadcast by the Tabernacle choir and organ each Sunday is essentially religious, and is selected from the world's great music. The "Spoken Word" presents ethical principles that are fundamentally sound.
When this type of program can receive one of radio's highest awards, there is renewed hope for the sanity and spirituality of the nation.
HOUSEKEEPING ACTIVITIES 391

Muscles consume fuel and give out energy. A substance known as glycogen is the energy-producing material in the muscle.
This substance is formed by the muscle tissue from sugar products brought to it by the blood.
When muscular activity occurs, the glycogen unites with the oxygen in the blood stream, freeing energy and forming lactic acid and carbon dioxide?both waste products which interfere with continued muscular activity. The blood then brings oxygen from the lungs to the muscle cells; and the lactic acid is removed by the oxidation and conversion into glycogen.
Thus the oxygen carried by the blood from the lungs to the muscle cells helps in the removal of the lactic acid in the muscles.
During moderate muscular work the above operation proceeds rather normally with little or no fatigue resulting. But if the work is strenuous or prolonged, the oxygen cannot be supplied fast enough to reconvert all the lactic acid formed in the muscle cells.
When this happens fatigue or a diminished capacity for work results. It is necessary, therefore, to allow time for the muscles to recuperate. The development of fatigue during or near the end of the day is unavoidable for most people. Nevertheless, according to Gilbreth, fatigue ought to be overcome within a twenty-four hour period. If fatigue mounts too early in the day, it is considered something of a danger signal; it indicates an unbalance of work and rest.
Indecision and dislike for a task bring on fatigue more quickly than if one has developed skill and the right attitude toward the job one has to do.
Skill always lessens muscular strain.
Fatigue or tiredness may disappear completely as interest is developed in the task.
Improved working conditions result in the saving of time and energy.
Places for tools and materials should be made easily accessible. In order to maintain a good posture, comfortable working heights for all kitchen work surfaces should be adapted to the height of the worker using them.
Good posture is the position which requires the expenditure of the least amount of energy.
Time to keep oneself physically fit is essential for greater service.
This includes mental and emotional health as well as bodily well-being.
Establish a few routines to obviate conscious effort.
