[Vol31 | July 1944 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: So Let It Bailey]
Annual  Report — 1943 
Vera  White  Pohlman,  General  Secretary-Treasurer 
OUTSTANDING    accomplish-  overwhelming  response  to  the  appeal 
ments  of  the  Relief  Society  for    increased    Magazine    subscrip- 
during  1943  were:  (1)  inteii-  ^-^^^  (reported  in  detail  in  the  issue 
smed  sewme  service  mcludmg  rulnll-  .     ^  '    ^                            x    t       it 
ment  of  an  extensive    quilt  assign-  ^^^  J""f  ^944;  PP  B^fMS).  In  addi- 
ment  for  the  Church  Welfare  Plan;  ^lon,  all  usual  Relief  Society  activi- 
(2)  continuation  of  the  special  war  ties  were  carried  forward  with  fairly 
services  described  in  the  1942  annual  satisfactory  results,  but  not  without 
report     (Magazine     for     June- July  evidence  of  the  effect   of    wartime 
1943,   pp.   414-418);   and    (3)    the  conditions  and  restrictions. 
ONE  HUNDREDTH  ANNIVERSARY  OF  RELIEF  SOCIETY  SEWING  SERVICE 
1943  marked  the  hundredth  an-  The  quantity  of  articles  made  at 
niversary  of  the  beginning  of  sewing  Relief  Society  meetings  throughout 
service  in  the  Relief  Society.  It  was  this  century  of  sewing  service  must 
in  the  Society's  second  year,  in  a  have  been  tremendous,  but  no 
meeting  held  October  14,  1843,  that  Church-wide  records  were  kept  of 
Phebe  M.  Wheeler,  the  assistant  this  activity  until  1942.  This  first 
secretary,  proposed  ''that  a  sewing  year's  report  was,  however,  consid- 
society  be  appointed  that  garments  ered  inadequate  as  many  local  Re- 
and  bed  clothing  may  be  made  and  lief  Societies  did  not  at  first  keep  ac- 
given  to  such  as  are  suffering  cold  count  of  the  newly  required  data, 
and  nakedness,"  and  a  time  was  ap-  Even  so,  this  initial  but  incomplete 
pointed  for  this  purpose.  This  serv-  report  indicated  this .  sewing  service 
ice  soon  became  a  feature  of  regular  to  be  one  of  the  major  activities  of 
Relief  Society  meetings  and,  when  the  Society.  A  more  complete  re- 
uniform  courses  of  study  were  intro-  port  for  1943,  and  an  intensified  sew- 
duced  in  the  Society  in  1914,  one  ing  program  during  this  year  to  meet 
meeting  each  month  was  reserved  new  assignments  and  new  oppor- 
for  sewing.  At  this  meeting  a  va-  tunities  for  service,  have  resulted  in 
riety  of  work  is  done  according  to  a  new  high  record  of  accomplish- 
the  needs  and  the  opportunities  for  ment— a  record  which  effectively 
service.  Women  are  taught  to  sew  and  appropriately  commemorates  the 
and  remodel  for  themselves;  they  hundredth  anniversary  of  Relief  So- 
have  opportunity  to  sew  on  quilts  ciety  sewing  service, 
and  other  articles  for  distribution  to  According  to  the  records  kept, 
the  needy;  to  earn  funds  for  the  So-  sewing  service  in  the  Relief  Society 
ciety  by  sewing  on  articles  for  sale  was  approximately  twice  as  great  in 
at  bazaars  or  to  fill  individual  orders;  1943  as  in  1942.  Completed  articles 
to  learn  various  other  handicrafts;  numbered  244,636— nearly  a  quarter- 
and  to  sew  or  knit  for  the  Red  Cross  million  and  double  the  number  com- 
and  other  worthy  purposes.  pleted  the    previous    year.     Nearly 
,  Page  369

370  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JULY  1944 
three  -  quarters  million  hours  undertook  an  extensive  quilt  assign- 
(709,494)  were  given  to  this  service  ment  to  supply  bishops'  storehouses 
—almost  twice  the  sewing  time  re-  under  the  Church  Welfare  Plan; 
ported  for  1942.  This  tremendous  (2)  made  quilts  to  supply  the  12 
service  was  given  by  an  average  of  quilts  or  blankets  specified  as  part  of 
32,892  women  per  month— an  in-  the  ward  first-aid  kits  recommended 
crease  over  1942  of  only  4,187  wom-  for  all  wards  in  war-risk  areas;  and 
en  or  1 5  per  cent,  as  compared  with  ( 3 )  made  a  final  check  of  bedding 
the  increase  of  109  per  cent  in  num-  facilities  of  families  in  the  wards, 
ber  of  articles  completed  and  of  86  conducting  help-one-another  quilt- 
per  cent  in  number  of  sewing  hours,  ing  projects  both  for  families  able  to 
The  average  number  of  women  par-  supply  their  own  material  and  oth- 
ticipating  in  the  Society's  sewing  ers.  Quilts  made  during  1943  for 
service  corresponds  closely  with,  but  all  purposes  numbered  23,114— an 
slightly  exceeds,  the  average  number  increase  of  10,080  or  77  per  cent  over 
of  women  in  attendance  at  Relief  the  13,034  recorded  during  1942. 
Society  meetings.  Nevertheless,  this  The  Church  Welfare  quilt  assign- 
group  of  sewing  women  represents  ment  was  the  first  uniform  sewing 
less  than  one-third  of  the  total  mem-  assignment  made  to  the  Relief  So- 
bership  of  the  Society,  and  it  would  cieties  of  all  the  stakes  of  the 
seem  that  a  larger  percentage  might  Church  since  inception  of  the 
be  brought  into  the  sewing  program.  Church  Welfare  Plan  in  1936.  This 
even  though  some  of  the  members  assignment  was  in  the  ratio  of  one 
are  unavailable  for  this  service  be-  quilt  to  every  one  hundred  Church 
cause  of  war  work  or  other  employ-  members  in  the  stakes,  and  aggre- 
menl.  Suggestions  for  emphasizing,  gated  4,296  quilts;  it  was  more  than 
and  extending  the  Society's  sewing  filled  within  the  year,  for  4,488 
program  throughout  the  Church,  warm,  well-made  quilts,  many  of 
and  for  enlisting  the  interest  and  them  of  fine  design  and  lovely  color- 
participation  of  more  women  in  the  ing,  were  turned  into  bishops'  store- 
work  meeting  through  promotion  of  houses  for  subsequent  distribution 
sewdng  skills,  appear  on  pages  387-9  to  the  needy.  Not  only  did  the  Re- 
of  this  issue  of  the  Magazine.  lief  Society  make  these  several  thou- 
r>  T  f  n.  '  y  ^  sand  quilts  but,  upon  authorization 
Kdid  Society  s  Greatest  ^^  ^he  General  Board,  purchased 
QuiJt-Making  Year  the  required  material  to  the  extent 
Quilts  constituted  the  largest  of  several  thousand  dollars  from  Re- 
group of  classified  articles  in  the  lief  Society  funds. 
1943  reports.  Although  quilt-mak- 
ing has  been  traditional  in  the  Relief  Other  Church  Welfare  Service 
Society  for  a  hundred  years,  1943  Many  stakes  also  received  Church 
was  doubtless  the  greatest  quilt-  Welfare  assignments  for  production 
making  year  in  the  history  of  the  So-  of  clothing,  and  some  others  and  a 
ciety  for,  in  addition  to  the  usual  few  missions  with  self-initiated  proj- 
number  of  quilts  made  for  the  ects  also  made  clothing  for  this 
needy,  and  for  bazaars  or  to  the  or-  purpose.  Altogether,  including  the 
der  of  individuals,  the  Society:  (1)  quilts,  a  total  of  19,570  articles  was

ANNUAL  REPORT— 1943  371 
reported  by  Relief  Societies  as  made  for  home  use  by  women  throughout 
and  turned  into  bishops'  storehouses  the  Church, 
during  the  year.    Inasmuch  as  many 
of  these  articles  were  quilts  requiring  Sewing  Other  Than  Quilts 
a  considerable  amount  of  time,  the  In  addition  to  the  23,114  quilts 
extent  of  sewing  service  for  this  pro-  made  during  1943,  children's  cloth- 
gram  cannot  be  measured  entirely  in  ing  to  the  number  of  18,224  pieces 
terms  of  articles  completed.  No  sep-  constituted  the  next  largest  classi- 
arate  count  was  kept  of  hours  spent  fied  group  of  articles  completed  in 
on  Church  Welfare  sewing  in  Relief  Relief  Society  work  meetings,  fol- 
Society  meetings.  lowed  by  14,724  pieces  of  men's 
In  addition  to  Church  Welfare  clothing,  13,436  pieces  of  women's 
sewing  service  at  Relief  Society  clothing,  4,607  bedding  items  other 
meetings,  Relief  Society  women  re-  than  quilts,  and  170,531  miscellane- 
sponded  to  calls  for  volunteer  service  ous  articles.  These  miscellaneous 
on  other  Church  Welfare  projects,  articles— three  times  the  number  re- 
principally  food  canning  and  drying,  ported  in  1942— reflect  the  exten- 
and  sewing  requiring  special  equip-  sion  of  services  by  the  Relief  Society 
ment,  conducted  largely  at  work  cen-  to  meet  new  needs  in  many  locali- 
ters  in  connection  with  stake  or  ties,  as  a  result  of  a  wartime  labor 
regional  bishops'  storehouses.  Ac-  shortage,  such  as  volunteer  sewing 
cording  to  Relief  Society  records,  service  for  hospitals  and  recreation 
members  of  the  Society  gave  287,810  centers  at  military  camps,  and  paid 
hours'  service  on  such  projects,  of  sewing  service  in  response  to  appeals 
which  33,095  hours  or  11  per  cent  from  both  public  agencies  and  pri- 
were  by  women  whose  families  were  vate  concerns  unable  to  procure  the 
receiving  aid,  and  254,715  hours  or  service  through  the  usual  commer- 
89  per  cent  represented  volunteer  cial  channels.  For  example,  the  Re- 
service.  The  extent  of  service  by  lief  Societies  of  Salt  Lake  City  made 
women  receiving  aid  reportedly  de-  approximately  6,000  articles  for  the 
creased  by  15  per  cent  from  1942,  Latter-day  Saint  Hospital  there- 
doubtless  because  fewer  families  44  different  kinds,  such  as  draw- 
were  in  need,  but  there  was  an  in-  sheets,  basin  bags,  towels,  ether 
crease  of  49  per  cent  in  the  amount  coats,  bedpan  covers,  breast  bind- 
of  time  given  by  Relief  Society  wom-  ers,  doctors'  caps,  infants'  supplies, 
en  who  were  not  receiving  assist-  et  cetera— and,  in  addition,  prepared 
ance.  from  newspapers  thousands  of  bed- 
Relief  Society  women  also  re-  side  bags  and  rectangles  for  steri- 
sponded  eagerly  to  the  advice  of  the  lized  cotton.  They  also  made  doz- 
General  Authorities  of  the  Church  ens  of  drapes  for  soldiers'  club  rooms 
to  assist  in  the  raising  and  conserva-  from  material  supplied  by  the  Red 
tion  of  food  for  their  families,  and  Cross,  and  did  paid  sewing  for  the 
took  advantage  of  the  group  canning  State  Board  of  Health  and  for  a 
privileges  offered  at  Church  Wei-  commercial  company  with  an  emer- 
fare  canning  centers.  Indications  gency  war  order.  Similar  services 
are  that  a  tremendous  quantity  of  have  been  given  by  Relief  Societies 
food  was  produced  and  conserved  in  other  localities.