[Vol31 | July 1944 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Article | Title: Social Science Preview Day]
412  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JULY  1944 
great  moral  principles  of  the  ages,  the  thesis  of  social  progress.  If  the 
We  cannot  solve  these  problems  of  advancement  of  humanity  is  to  be 
human  suffering  by  shutting  our  eyes  measured  in  terms  of  material  in- 
to them,  by  running  away  from  re-  vention  alone,  then  progress  we  have; 
ality,  by  being  ostrich-like  and  hid-  but  if  happiness  and  kindness  are  the 
ing  our  heads  in  the  sand.  Neither,  criteria  of  human  advancement,  the 
of  course,  can  we  alleviate  man's  mis-  question  of  progress  remains  a  ques- 
ery  by  simply  looking  at  it  and  brood-  tion.  It  is  in  the  realms  of  the  social, 
ing.  But  we  must  look  before  we  the  moral,  and  the  spiritual  that 
can  intelligently  act;  we  must  see  man  has  climbed  the  least  and  suf- 
where  we  are  before  we  can  start  fered  the  most, 
building  for  something  better.  It  is  This  tendency  for  change  in  the 
in  the  spirit  of  realistically  under-  social  and  less  tangible  aspects  of 
standing  where  we  are  so  that  we  culture  to  drag  and  remain  far  be- 
can  build  for  a  better  world  that  we  hind  innovations  or  changes  in  ma- 
turn  now  to  glimpse  some  of  the  un-  terial  culture  the  sociologist  has 
pleasing  aspects  of  human  relation-  called  a  cultural  lag.  It  is  well  recog- 
ships.  nized  by  students  in  social  science 
today  that  such  lags  do  exist,  and  that 
The  Question  of  Social  Progress.  personal  and  social  dislocations  re- 
We  hear  a  lot  these  days  about  suit.  Whenever  two  or  more  inter- 
the  achievements  of  man  and  the  related  phases  of  life  change  in  dif- 
glories  of  our  civilization,  but  when  ferent  directions  or  at  unequal 
we  observe  the  inhumanity,  injus-  speeds,  the  balance  of  normal  rela- 
tice,  misery,  and  despair  around  us,  tionships  is  jarred  and  disequili- 
we  may  well  wonder  if  our  achieve-  briums  and  tensions  inevitably  re- 
ments  are  fundamental  and  if  man  suit.  Today,  we  have  an  abundance 
is  really  civilized.  Technologically  of  machines,  enough  for  everyone  to 
we  have  come  a  long  way,  no  one  enjoy  a  decent  and  comfortable 
will  deny  that.  The  electric  light,  standard  of  living,  but  either  we  use 
the  automobile,  the  telephone,  the  them  for  war  and  destruction,  it 
radio,  and  myriads  of  other  inven-  seems,  or  we  allow  them  to  bring  un- 
tions,  too  numerous  to  mention,  employment  and  poverty  to  the  mil- 
have  brought  us  comforts  and  con-  lions.  Man  is  not  master  of  the  ma- 
veniences  undreamed  of  a  few  gen-  chine,  and  until  he  learns  to  adapt 
erations  ago.  In  the  material  and  this  Frankenstein  of  his  own  crea- 
mechanical  world  the  common  man  tion  to  his  total  welfare  and  happi- 
now  has  what  kings  and  queens  were  ness,  it  will  remain  his  master, 
denied  throughout  the  ages.  But  is  There  are  primarily  three  ways  of 
man  any  happier  now  than  former-  meeting  the  problem:  (i)  One, 
ly,  and  is  he  any  more  humane  in  his  known  as  primitivism,  is  to  run  away 
treatment  of  others?  Unemploy-  from  civilization  in  search  of  peace 
ment,  poverty,  crime,  divorce,  sui-  and  contentment  through  isolation, 
cide,  war  in  its  most  total  and  brutal  on  some  far-off  island  or  in  some  re- 
forms, these  and  many  other  indices  mote  region  where  one  can  be  alone, 
of  social  decay  so  characteristic  of  It  is  based  upon  the  belief  that  civil- 
our  age  lead  us  to  at  least  question  ization  itself  is  to  blame  for  unhap-

LESSON  DEPARTMENT  413 
piness  and  that  an  escape  from  it  all,  world  had  been  made  safe  for  de- 
or  a  return  to  nature,  will  bring  the  mocracy  and   decency.    But    now, 
happiness  desired.    This  idea  some-  with  everything  that  we  hold  sacred 
times  finds  expression  in  perverted  or  decent   being   violated,    we    are 
ways  such  as  with  nudist  colonies  forced  to  shift  our  hopes  into  the  fu- 
and  other  cultist  societies,  but  even  ture.    Perhaps  some  day  the  world 
when  not  perverted  it  fails  to  solve  will  be  advanced  enough  and  moral 
the  problem,  for  the  world  is    too  enough  to  follow  Christ  when  he 
small  to  isolate  everyone.  (2)  A  sec-  said,  *'Love  thy  neighbor  as  thyself," 
ond  method  of  meeting,  or  attempt-  but  not  yet. 
ing  to  meet,  the  problem  of  the  cul-  Total  war,  as  we  call  it  today,  is 
tural  lag  is  to  declare  a  moratorium  no  respecter  of  persons,  institutions, 
on  technological  development  until  property,  nor  principles;  and  moral 
society  is  able  to  catch  up.    There  structure,  along    with    bricks    and 
are  those  who  believe  that  we  should  mortar,  crumbles  by  its  impact, 
hold  back  mechanical  inventions  un-  It  is  unfortunate  but  true  that 
til  we  learn  how  to  properly  deal  war  almost  universally  means  a  let- 
with  those  we  now  have.    But  this,  down  in  righteous  living.     People 
too,  is  impractical,  if  not  impossible,  are  unnerved  by  the  excitement,  the 
for  how  can  one  stay   the  creative  strains,  and  the  tensions  inevitable  in 
urge  of  man,  and  why  should  anyone  such  a  conflict.    Emotionalism  is  in- 
try  to  stifle  human    progress?   ( 3 )  creased  and  judgment  becomes  more 
The  third  and  only  remaining  alter-  unreasoned  and  impetuous.    There 
native  is  to  give  increased  attention  comes  a  revival  of   the  old  philos- 
and  effort  to  the  social  and  moral  ophy,  ''Eat,  drink,  and  be  merry  for 
fields  so  that  progress  here  will  paral-  tomorrow  we  may  die";  and  in  the 
lei  that  of  the  material  field.    This  spirit  of  a  'last  fling"  many  run  wild, 
is  the  positive  and  progressive    ap-  The  separation  of  the  sexes  made 
proach,  and  it    smacks    of    neither  necessary  in    army  life    creates  ab- 
escapism  nor  defeatism.    The  great  normal  tensions    and    morbid  atti- 
challenges  of  the  day  lie  in  the  fields  tudes  which  too  often  result  in  mis- 
of  non-material  culture,  and  if  man  takes    and    sorrow.      The    young 
learns  how  to  meet  and  handle  them  man  in  uniform  is  separated  from 
even   approximating   the   efficiency  the  primary  group  controls  of  those 
with  which  he  has  his  material  cul-  he  loves,  and  is  exposed  to  the  vicis- 
ture,  then  truly  can  it  be  said  that  situdes  of  life  under  the  artificial 
society  is  progressing.  and  sometimes  corrupt  influence  of 
a  male  society.    The  young  woman 
Some  Ethical  Jmph'cations  of  War  left  at  home  finds  opportunity  for 
Modern  war  with  its  "Pearl  Har-  male  companionship  more  diflPicult, 
bors,"  its  indiscriminate  bombings,  and  in  the  spirit  of  desperation  fre- 
its  booby  traps,  its  gestapo,  its  re-  quently  lowers  her  standards  in  or- 
prisals,  its  concentration  camps,  and  der  to  compete.    Then,  too,  the  very 
its    sadistic   bloodletting    is    some-  philosophy    of    war    unfortunately 
thing  horrible  to  behold.  There  are  makes  some  feel  that  the  man  in 
some  of  us  who  had  hoped,  though  uniform  is  entitled  to  everything  his 
scarcely    dared    believe,    that    the  appetite  desires,  and  that  the  young

414  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JULY   1944 
woman  is  more  patriotic  when  slie  it  would  be  well  to  see  what  they 
caters  to  his  appetites.  Add  to  all  and  other  related  concepts  mean, 
of  this  the  "money  madness"  that  Man  has  always  been  inclined  to 
takes  hold  of  so  many  civilians  in  adopt  standards  of  light  and  wrong 
wartime,  and  the  reckless  abandon  and  to  judge  his  fellowmen  in  the 
with  which  they  shape  their  lives.  It  light  of  these  standards.  This  at- 
is  no  wonder,  then,  that  war  sees  in-  tempt  to  evaluate  and  control  hu- 
creases  in  juvenile  delinquency,  ve-  man  behavior  in  the  light  of  what 
nereal  disease,  divorce,  and  in  other  is  conceived  to  be  good  or  bad,  is 
patterns  of  social  and  moral  decay,  known  as  the  field  of  morality.  Chas- 
for  in  wartime,  morals  often  take  a  tity  is  one  important  phase  of  mo- 
holiday,  rality,  but,  unfortunately,  it  is  some- 
So  great  were  the  repercussions  of  times  confused  with  the  term  itself. 
World  War  I  on  the  moral  stand-  Morah'ty  in  its  hioad  and  complete 
ards  of  the  day,  that  the  decade  fol-  meaning  relates  to  anything  that  is 
lowing  that  war  is  often  spoken  of  conceived  to  he  either  good  or  had, 
as  the  "wild  Twenties."    Because  of  and  morals  are  simpJy  standards   of 
the  habits  in   immorality  becoming  right  Jiving.    The  philosophy  or  the 
established    today,    the    hates    en-  logical  thought  system    that  deals 
gendered  by  the  conflict,  and  the  in-  with  morality  is  called  ethics,  and, 
evitable  difficulties  in  personal  and  for  all  practical   purposes,    the  two 
social  readjustments  following    the  terms      may      be     considered     as 
war,  we  can  expect  a  similar,  perhaps  synonymous, 
even  greater,  moral  problem    after  When  the  system  of  ethical  eval 
World  War  II.    To  recognize  this  is  nation  is  tied  up  with  the  pleasure 
not  to  be  pessimistic,  but  only  real-  or  displeasure  of   diety,  we  usually 
istic.     Potentially  the  future  holds  speak  of  the  conformer  as  righteous 
before  us  both  obstacles  and  oppor-  and  the  non-conformer  as  evil,  sin- 
tunities;  actually,  the  future  is  what  ful,  or  wicked.    When,  however,  the 
we  make  it.    World  War  II  is  not  offense  is  related  to  society  only  and 
fostering  moral  progress  to  be  sure,  not  to  a  supernatural  power  we  speak 
but  neither  does    it    preclude  pro-  in  terms  of  vice,  crime,  et  cetera, 
gress.    Unless  we  are  awake  to  hu-  The  good  hie  is  the  life  that  pleases 
man  values  and  moral  problems  as  both  God  and  man,  and  conscience 
we  fight,  it  is  entirely  possible  that  is  the  inward  judge  and  control  de- 
we    will    find    ourselves    exhausted  vice  that  makes  the  good  life  pos- 
and  defeated    socially    though    vie-  sible. 
torious   militaristically.     It  all   de-,  The  fact  that  moral    or    ethical 
pends  on  us  and  on  what  we  do  to-  standards  are   not    always    uniform 
day.  need  detain  us  here  but  little  and 
disturb  us  not  at  all.    The  details  of 
The  Meaning  of  Morals  ethical  patterns  differ  widely  in  both 
We  have  used  the  terms  morality  time  and  place,  but  there  are  certain 
and  ethics  a  number    of    times  al-  broad  fundamentals,  just  the  same, 
ready,  and  we  will  have  occasion  to  that  seem  to  be  both  universal  and 
use  them  again  many  times  through-  eternal.    The  mores,  as  the  socially 
out  this  series  of  lessons.     Perhaps  determined,  detailed  moral  codes  are

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
415 
scientifically  called,  are  relative  to 
the  social  groups  that  practice  them, 
but  over  and  above  these  there  are 
certain  broad  moral  principles  that 
have  stood  the  test  of  all  time  and 
may  therefore  be  regarded  as  abso- 
lute. Among  these  are  brother- 
hood, tolerance,  honesty,  responsi- 
l)ility,  effort,  and  temperance. 
Neither  the  customs  of  the  past 
nor  the  laws  of  the  present  are  alone 
sufficient  as  guides  to  moral  living. 
In  a  changing,  dynamic  society  such 
as  ours,  new  situations  arise  daily, 
and  a  person  must  think  in  order  to 
act  wisely  and  well.  But  he  must 
think  straight  and  with  a  courage 
and  a  desire  to  act  in  the  light  of  the 
right  as  he  sees  it.  There  is  too  much 
wishful  thinking  today,  motivated 
by  the  desires  of  the  heart  rather 
than  the  discipline  of  the  head.  And 
there  is  too  little  courage  based  up- 
on a  desire  for  righteousness.  Some- 
times people  fail  to  think  and  other 
times  though  they  think  they  fail 
to  act.  What  we  need  is  a  moral- 
ity that  goes  all  the  way;  one  that  is 
based  upon  intelligence  and  faith 
rather  than  ignorance  and  fear,  and 
one  that  is  impelled  by  an  inward 
passion  for  righteous  living. 
The  crying  need  of  this  age  is  for 
a  widening  and  a  deepening  of  the 
moral  horizons.  There  are  too 
many  today  who  have  grown  callous 
and  insensitive  to  the  finer  values  of 
life,  and  indifferent  to  the  conse- 
quences of  their  thoughtless  acts. 
Blunted  by  indulgence  and  dissipa- 
tion, and  blinded  by  the  confusion 
around  them  they  blunder  along. 
Moral  skepticism  is  at  the  bottom 
of  much  of  man's  suffering. 
If  we  are  successful  in  removing 
any  of  this  skepticism  and  thereby 
stimulating  a  renewed  interest   and 
faith  in  established  ethical  prin- 
ciples, we  will  have  contributed  to 
the  happiness  of  mankind;  and  our 
efforts  in  preparing  these  lessons  will 
have  been  amply  rewarded. 
Piohlems  for  Thought  and  Action 
1.  Give  evidence  that  society  today  is 
more  complex,  more  changing,  and  more 
confused  than  in  other  times.  What  is 
the  difference  between  realism  and  pessi- 
mism? Why  is  the  one  necessary  to  virtue 
while  the  other  is  a  perversion  of  virtue? 
Discuss.  In  discussing  the  question  of  so- 
cial progress  decide  whether  you  think  the 
world  is  getting  better  or  worse  in  total, 
and  give  your  reasons.  What  is  a  cultural 
lag?  Why  does  a  lag  in  social,  moral,  and 
spiritual  development  create  serious  social 
dislocations?  Discuss  and  evaluate  various 
methods  of  meeting  this  problem  of  the 
cultural  lag. 
2.  Examine  the  history  of  war  for  the 
light  it  may  throw  on  the  question  of  so- 
cial progress.  Is  modern  war  any  more 
humane  than  earlier  wars?  Any  less  de- 
strudtive?  Discuss.  What  effect  does 
war  have  upon  sexual  morality?  Upon 
brotherhood,  honesty,  and  other  phases  of 
moral  conduct?  Analyze  the  problem  of 
marriage  in  wartime  indicating  both  caus- 
es and  consequences.  What  will  be  the 
nature  of  our  moral  problem  in  the  post- 
war era  and  what  do  you  think  can  be 
done  about  it  now? 
3.  Define  and  distinguish  the  follow- 
ing terms:  ethics,  morals,  chastity,  right- 
eousness, evil,  sin,  vice,  crime,  the  good 
life,  conscience,  et  cetera.  Are  moral 
standards  relative  or  absolute?  Why  or 
why  not? 
4.  Why  are  customs  and  laws  alone  in- 
sufficient as  moral  guides?  Discuss  the 
need  of  both  thought  and  prayer  in  the 
building  of  conscience.  Why  is  control 
by  intelligence  and  faith  better  than  by 
ignorance  and  fear?  Do  you  agree  that 
the  crying  need  of  the  age  is  for  a  revival 
of  moral  consciousness?     Discuss. 
Selected  References 
Christensen,  Harold  T.,  "To  Marry 
or  Not  to  Marrv  in  Time  of  War,"  Relief

416 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JULY  1944 
Society  Magazine,  February  1943,  pp.  94- 
99. 
Drake,  Durrant,  The  New  Morality, 
New  York,  MacMillan,  1928,  pp.  336-346. 
FosDiCK,  Harry  Emerson,  "On  Being 
Civilized  to  Death,"  Reader's  Digest,  Feb- 
ruary 1938,  pp.  73-75. 
Smith,  Gerand  B.,  Principles  of  Chris- 
tian Living,  Chicago,  University  of  Chi- 
cago Press,  1936,  pp.  1-9. 
Titus,  Harold  H.,  Ethics  for  Today, 
New  York,  American  Book  Co.,  1936, 
pp.  1-24. 
Tufts,  James  H.,  America's  Social 
Morality,  New    York,  Henry  Holt   1933, 
PP-  3-37- 
Time,  Energy,  and  Fatigue  Costs 
of  Housekeeping  Activities 
(Continued  from  page  391) 
Those  who  desire  further  reading 
on  the  subject  of  fatigue  are  referred 
to    the    following    magazines    and 
books: 
Benjamin,  "Heads  High,  Backs 
Straight,"  Ladies'  Home  Journal,  vol.  59, 
p.  115,  April  1942. 
Furnace,  H.,  "Make  Your  Spine  Be- 
have," Ladies'  Home  Journal,  vol.  59, 
p.  58,  November  1942. 
Myerson,  a.,  M.D.,  "Remedies  for  the 
Housewife's  Fatigue,"  Ladies  Home  Journ- 
al, vol.  47,  p.  115,  March  1930. 
Ryan,  A.  H.,  M.D.,  "The  Tired  House- 
wiie,"  Ladies'  Home  Journel,  vol.  50, 
p.  26,  September  1933. 
Tregoning,  "Outwitting  Homemakers' 
Fatigue,"  Hygeia,  vol.  16,  1938. 
Welsh,  Charlotte  R,,  "Saving  Your 
Figure,"  Hygeia,  vol.  18,  March  1940. 
(Tells  how  the  mother-to-be  can  regain  her 
former  figure.) 
Wilkes,  E.  T.,  M.D.,  "Start  Early  for 
Good  Posture,"  Parents  Magazine,  vol.  17, 
p.  28,  February  1942. 
America's  Housekeeping  Book,  Chapter 
2. 
Fisher,  Dorothy  Canfield,  The 
Homemaker. 
Gross  and  Lewis,  Home  Management, 
F.  S.  Crofts  &  Co.,  New  York. 
Nickell  and  Dorsey,  Management  in 
Family  Living,  John  Wiley  &  Sons,  Inc., 
New  York. 
CLEAN  PLATE  CAMPAIGN 
There's  one  way  every  family  can  contribute  to  the  success  of  the  War — and  that 
is  by  saving  food — Food  is  a  weapon  of  War — Don't  waste  it.  Now  is  the  time  for 
every  American  to  help  conserve  the  food  resources  of  America  by  Cleaning  up  his  Plate. 
Avoidable  waste  is  our  largest  and  most  economical  extra  food  supply  available. 
Twenty  per  cent  of  all  food  produced  in  America  is  never  eaten.  It  is  wasted — fills  the 
garbage  cans — Improper  handling  of  foods  in  markets,  faulty  preparation  of  foods  in 
restaurants  and  in  homes  and  poor  eating  habits  on  the  part  of  the  American  populace 
accounts  for  this  gross  and  random  waste.  Most  food  waste  occurs  not  in  pounds,  bush- 
els or  acre  lots,  but  in  ounces,  bits,  and  driblets. 
The  food  one  civilian  wastes  in  a  week  will  provide  food  for  one  military  field  ration, 
or  feed  one  Army  man  for  one  day.  Think  what  one  hundred  and  thirty  million  times 
that  quantity  could  do.  Conservation  of  this  food  is  not  a  problem  for  the  economist. 
It  is  a  project  for  every  individual  and  every  home  in  America. — Office  of  Distribution, 
War  Food  Administraton.