[Vol31 | July 1944 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Freedom of Choice McKay]
What a glorious thing it is that when we choose, we can follow the dictates of our conscience and not the dictates of a usurper.
Think of it now?the value of freedom of choice!
That was the great principle involved when war arose in Heaven when Lucifer would have deprived God's children of the right to choose.
Lucifer said to the Lord: I'll go down and bring all your children back, but you give me the glory. Jesus, however, said: Send me and the glory be Thine. Satan's attempt to deprive the children of men of their free agency brought contention in Heaven?the only time about which  we have any record that God would permit war in Heaven. And yet, the Lord would not deprive even the Adversary of the right to choose; and so Satan "turned away." But Christ came and died that you and I might have freedom of choice.
That is one of the great principles of life, and to make the right choice is life's greatest obligation.
Your sons and mine are out fighting for that principle. In the last analysis that is the great question in this war so far as the Allies are concerned?whether we shall have the right to worship as we please, whether we shall have the right to think as we please, whether we shall have the right to own that which belongs to us, and to take charge of it without the dictation of a gangster or usurper. It is a glorious thing to be free! The poet was right who said: Know this, that every soul is free To choose his life and what he'll be, For this eternal truth is given. That God will force no man to heaven. He'll call, persuade, direct aright? And bless with wisdom, love, and light? In nameless ways be good and kind But never force the human mind.
Freedom and reason make us men; Take these away, what are we then?
Mere animals and just as well The beasts may think of heaven or hell. ?W. C. Clegg "Will ye also go away?" Choice Made Concerns Others In making that choice in life, too many of us think that the individual is the only one concerned, but that is not true.
There is no one who is not obligated to somebody else. FREEDOM OF CHOICE When that choice comes to us tonight or tomorrow, it is for us to decide whether we go with the ideals of the Gospel or turn to the things which are selfish, and we had better stop to think that somebody else will be affected by our choice. First, there is your mother; there is your father. You cannot do anything that will hurt you without hurting them.
Never arrogate to yourself the thought that it is nobody's business what you do?you are a part of your mother, a real, vital part of her, and are more precious to her than life itself, perhaps; and you are unfaithful and recreant to duty who would bring sorrow and heartache to your mother. And that is true of you, young woman, when you are out in society. You are a Latter-day Saint; your mother and father, your grandmother and grandfather sacrificed a great deal to come out here to live up to these ideals, and now you think that it is nobody's business if you do something to contaminate your own body with nicotine or alcoholic drinks.
When you indulge in things injurious you are falling down on life's greatest obligation, and you are wounding someone who trusts you. You have an obligation to your country, also. I have not said much | about that in my sermons, but recently I read a book that is on the Mutual Improvement Association reading course. I recommend it to you.
This book was written by a poor little Syrian orphan, but it contains a message that everyone here in this country should receive.
This lad from Syria finally got to America. He was born an American citizen, but his mother died in Syria, and the boy did not know that he was 357 an American. His grandmother would not let him know it because she wanted to keep him in Syria with her; but when he found out that he was an American, he wanted to come to this country, and when he did finally arrive, oh! How glorious it seemed to him.
Before he left for America, his Syrian teacher had told him what to anticipate, and so with high hopes he came to the United States.
Then followed disillusionment.
People called him a foreigner.
They laughed at him because he couldn't speak English, and he almost lost hope, but he held on. He saw the schoolhouses, he saw the blackboards and free books, and then he would think of how he had picked up papers in the gutter back in Syria and carried them home to learn to read.
Here in this country he found books, free books, and electric lights turned on when the days were dark. It was glorious! He began to learn the language, and finally, one day, some young people invited him to go out for a real American good time.
That is what he wanted to have?a real, American good time! So he dressed himself up, and about 9 o'clock that night he went out with the gang.
When they asked Sam to chip in to help buy a pint of liquor, he objected because it would be breaking the law.
Because of his hesitancy, they called him a sissy. Sam didn't know what a sissy meant; but he thought it must mean something pretty bad, so he joined with them.
Then he described that night of whoopee. I'll let you imagine it. Of course, you here can only imagine it, because you have never experienced it. The next morning the whole 358 world looked terrible to Sam. He felt sick, and the more he thought of his experiences of the night before, the sicker he became. The thing that worried him the most was the realization that the young people who had been on the party had been born Americans, one of the most precious heritages on earth as it offers advantages and blessings unequaled in the world, and yet they had thrown away their opportunities for a night spent in disobedience to the law. The responsibility of making a choice comes to you at all times. It is yours on the night of parties, it is yours in the ballroom; such a responsibility may be yours tonight? this obligation of choice. Do you realize that your brother now in the uniform of our country is out somewhere fighting, perhaps dying, to preserve our form of government? In answer to the call of duty, the soldier boys are offering their lives to maintain the principles of freedom, and while they are doing that, there are some young folks who are not willing even to deny themselves a little whoopee to maintain the standards. Of course, it is not always easy to say no, but if you have the blood of your pioneer fathers in your veins, you will say it when necessary.
Life is more than just a party, and cigarettes and wine and whiskey do not contribute to the honor of your country. Again, there is another organization affected by your actions, and that is the Church to which you belong.
Only today I received a letter from one of our boys wearing the uniform of our Armed Forces who had recently read something that cast reflection upon our Church.  said: "I am glad the man who wrote that wasn't near me. I might have done something of which I should have been ashamed. As it is, I have written to him." (The young man enclosed a copy of the letter he had written.) "TI have also written to the editor of the paper who published it against us." The indignation of that young man fighting for his country, when he read what some upstart had said against his Church, demonstrates how actions of individuals may reflect credit or discredit upon this organization. 'There is an old saying, "Once a missionary, always a missionary." And once a_ Latter-day Saint, always a Latter-day Saint! Our boys may turn their backs against it, but they will never get away from the fact that their parents came here for the good of the Church, and they knew that this Church must stand and fulfill its mission, for it is the Church of Jesus Christ. It gives you free agency?the agency of choice. Its message is peace and good will to all mankind. The message heralded by heavenly voices and an angelic choir at the birth of the Babe of Bethlehem, was "Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men." Conclusion In conclusion, let me repeat that in making a choice remember that the decision affects not you alone, but your parents, your friends, your country, and your Church.
Almost daily we are called upon to choose between the enticements of the world, with money, position, and vanity often the goal, or the ideals that lead to spiritual freedom. "Will ye also go away?" is the question FREEDOM oF CHOICE answer, be.
Christ is "the way, the truth, and the life." | footsteps brings love, Joy, and peace. ?s? are the virtues which bring these high Principles, we send our greetings and blessing. God _ bless them, for they are fighting for the freedom of this world, and the right of each man to have that freedom Which was given to man in the pre.
Existent state.
Joshua once said to ancient Israel, 00se you this day whom ye will serve," I pray that the young people of the Church today will answer that challenge by saying truly, "The Lord our God will we Serve, and his voice will we obey!"
