[Vol31 | July 1944 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: Map of the United States]

City, 1, Utah, at 5 cents each, postpaid.. Page 385, ?1944-45; 1945-46; 1946-47. It is therefore suggested that the map be preserved for reference during this entire period. Separate copies of This map of the United States is published for use in connection with the new theology course on Leland N. Peterson ~ 1939 EDITORIAL ?~92 NO. 7
Appropriate DURING the summer months Relief Society activities are Some what limited. This allows time for us to pause and consider the many blessings and opportunities the Society affords us. At this time we might also meditate with profit upon the character and greatness of Relief Society, and review our Own activities in relation to this organization. Relief Society was organized "under the Priesthood after a pattern of the Priesthood," not only for "the relief of the poor, but for the accomplishment of every good and noble work." Inspiration has guided its destiny, and intrinsic worth has characterized its activities. Its program has contributed to the joy and advancement of tens of thousands of Latter-day Saint women, and its benevolent administrations have called forth the gratitude of countless numbers of persons. When an organization has such a birth, such a history, and such worthy purposes, care must constantly be exercised to maintain its activities on a high plane, reflecting the spirit and dignity of the organization. Sometimes, however, because of lack of experience within the Society with its accompanying lack of understanding and appreciation, Ot because of a desire to catch interest by Page 386
Relief Society Programs bringing something new and different into the Society, activities are conducted which are not in harmony with the character of Relief Society. This is particularly true in regard to social and recreational activities. Programs in which women, in an effort to amuse and entertain, bedeck themselves in extreme Costumes, which are ugly and sometimes even offensive, are not in keeping with the dignity of Relief Society. When programs require men, it ig more appropriate to use men than to have women impersonate them. It is unbecoming in Relief Society gatherings to burlesque things for which we should have respect or reverence. Coarse humor and vulgarity have no place in Relief Society. Relief Society programs and entertainments need not necessarily be somber and formal; under certain circumstances, light highly entertaining programs may be given with propriety. They should, however, always be more than inane time wasters which contribute nothing to the enjoyment or advancement of Relief Society women. All activities of Relief Society should be worthy of the time of Latter-day Saint women and should reflect the ideals and standards of out great and worthy organization. ?B. SS. 

VOL. 31 JULY 1944 NOTES TO THE FIELD Modifications in Work Meeting Program Home Topics Discontinued IN recognition of the emphasis now being placed upon Church Welfare sewing and in view of the continued need for time for regular Relief Society sewing and for promotion of sewing skills, and also in response to numerous suggestions from Relief Society women, the General Board is discontinuing the home topics' course heretofore prepared for optional use on work-and business day, and also the song practice heretofore recommended. The home topic has served an important function in Relief Society, and, where used, Relief Society members have been greatly benefited by it. However, reports indicate that it is confusing to include a formal lesson on the sewing day and that the lesson infringes upon the sewing time to such an extent that it frequently becomes necessary to hold the sewers until a late hour or have them return another day; therefore, it is considered advisable to terminate the course. Sewing To Be Major Activity Hereafter, sewing will be the major activity on the second Tuesday of each month, and the meeting will be known as the "work meeting" rather than '"work-and-business meeting" as heretofore.
Wards will plan the day for themselves, specifying the hours of the meeting according to the amount of sewing to be done and local conditions.
Women who cannot meet for the entire specified period are to be welcomed at any time during the period and are to be given credit on the roll for being in attendance. In planning for the meeting, sewing assignments for the Church Welfare Plan should receive first consideration. 'The General Board recommends that, insofar as possible, Church Welfare sewing be done at the regular work meetings. It is recognized that a limited number of sewing machines may, in some instances, make it necessary for the women to do some sewing at home. Nevertheless, if well planned, much of the Church Welfare sewing can be done in the monthly sewing meetings. Relief Society officers should bear in mind that the Welfare sewing assignment is on an annual basis allowing twelve months for the completion of articles. It is more advantageous to the Society and more considerate of the women to budget the assignment over a twelve-month period, rather than to rush it through in a short period of time, largely for the sake of getting it off hand. Regular Relief Society sewing, any Red Cross sewing (See Blue Bulletin No. 24, February 19, 1942, page 10), and sewing for other worthy purposes should also be done at the monthly work meetings.
Membership is sufficiently large in most local Societies to have part of the group sew for the Church Welfare Page 387 388 fare Program, and for others to work on regular Relief Society, Red Cross, or other sewing. In fact, the 1943 annual report (see page 370 of this issue) reveals that on the average less than one-third of the members participate in the sewing program at present. Activities Related to Sewing In addition to required sewing, the General Board approves of activities at the work meeting related to sewing and homemaking, provided they do not interfere with nor displace required sewing. Relief Society has always maintained that women should be trained in sewing and homemaking skills and should be given opportunity for development along these lines. Many Relief Society women need instruction in simple sewing; many do not know how to quilt; many early-day crafts and sewing skills have almost disappeared and need to be revived and preserved.
Many women have creative fingers, but need guidance in creative designing. New and better methods of performing homemaking tasks are always needed and appreciated by Relief Society women.
This phase of the work-meeting program presents a new challenge to Relief Society leaders.
Following is a suggestive list of activities related to sewing and homemaking suitable for use at the work meeting: Remodeling Rug making?rag, crochet, hook, etc.
Crocheting and knitting Invisible mending and patching Quilting (Young women should be taught to quilt.) 6.
Making of children's clothing?panties, slips, robes, dresses, etc. 7- Demonstrations on the making of slip covers, drapes, curtains  8.
Making of accessories for suits and dresses?collar and cuff sets, etc. 9.
Making of luncheon sets 10.
Demonstrations of the techniques of plain sewing, such as making bound and worked buttonholes, setting in sleeves correctly, making patch pockets, etc. 11.
Displaying and explaining specific arts and crafts 12.
Demonstrations in the use of patterns (A pattern box for an exchange of patterns might be appreciated. ) 13.
Personal sewing (If there is not sufficient sewing for all to take part, women should be allowed to work on their own personal sewing, such as darning, mending, fancy work, crocheting, knitting, etc.) Additional information relating to these and other suggestive activities will, from time to time, appear in the Magazine, both in special articles and in "Notes From the Field." Relief Societies are urged to send in reports, for publication in the "Notes," of.
Sewing activities which they find to be helpful and popular.
Educational and Cultural Features Educational and cultural features in harmony with the ideals and standards of Relief Society, if desired, may be conducted simultaneously with sewing, provided such features do not interfere with nor in any way displace sewing.