[Vol12 | July 1925 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Article | Title: Sabbath E. Curtis]

Sabbath morning. On the occasion to which reference will here be made Louisa was to review her class and she had taken great pains to have a suitable lesson well prepared by both teacher and pupils. But on Sunday morning?she just did not feel equal to the task of presenting the lesson to the school as she realized it should be done. An hour or so before time to start for Sunday school, Louisa told her mother she was not feeling well. Her head was inclined to ache and her throat felt dry and slightly sore. "Mother," she asked, "do you think it will be wrong for me to miss Sunday School today if I spend the morning reading and stay at home?" "Why, my child," the mother answered, "if you are really sick and feel it will be best for you not to go to Sunday school then certainly there can be no wrong in your remaining at home. But if you have the feeling come simply from nervousness over the thought of giving that lesson you have been so strenuously drilling your girls on for the last two weeks, I would pluck up courage and go, and present the lesson in the excellent way you are sure to give it, and not disappoint the school, especially your class which you have made so enthusiastic by your painstakings with them." The young woman had invited her class to her home for rehearsals and the mother knew whereof she spoke. The daughter was convinced of her duty and promptly appeared at her place in Sunday school, before time for the opening. Her bright little girls were there also ahead of time as she had requested them to be. As she greeted them smilingly one of the superintendency came down off the stand and shook hands with Louisa saying, "Our Territorial superintendent of schools, Brother Robert L. Campbell, is here from Salt Lake. He is visiting the schools in all the settlements and is inspecting our school this morning. Let us show him a good Sunday school." There was still a little time left and Louisa repeated to the class the startling yet stimulating information she had just received, adding the injunction, "Let us not be afraid, girls, but all speak up bravely and clearly so as to be heard and understood." The day being the Sunday nearest the Twenty-fourth of July, Louisa had concisely written the lesson for her class in dialogue form on that always interesting portion of Church history which gives the account of the travels of the "Mormon" pioneers and
PIONEER WOMAN EDITOR 343
their first entrance into the valley of the Great Salt Lake. The lesson so appropriate to the day was well arranged and the teacher and pupils were highly favored and successful in their efforts to give it a fine rendition. The review was referred to and praised by members of the school for a long time after that day. And from their well versed and intelligent visitor, Brother Robert L. Campbell, it elicited very warm and encouraging commendation. During his remarks the Territorial school superintendent also paid Louisa an unexpected and inspiring eulogy on the editorial work she had recently done on a manuscript paper called The Smithfield Sunday School Gazette. Having examined the modest journal carefully, Brother Campbell held it up in his hand and declared it to be the most interesting and worthy example of its class that he had found in the schools of Utah Territory. Realizing the genuine uplifting influence of the credits gained that day both to herself and the dear Sunday school, Louisa was exceedingly happy. And she did not forget to be grateful that she had listened to the timely suggestions of her mother and made necessary sacrifices in order to fulfil her duty. The memory of such instances as the two here related proved valuable to the young woman when a larger and more serious crisis had come into her life. While talking of the greater work presented to her, one day, her mother was led to remark, "You have often expressed a desire to go on a mission and preach the gospel. Why not accept this call as a mission, and write your testimonies of the truth instead of proclaiming them by word of mouth? It would be less trying to your timidity and sensitiveness." That idea was a good one and helped to settle the question. Louisa wrote to Sister Snow that if President Young would give her the work of editing the woman's paper as a mission she would accept it as such and would do her best to make a success of it. Miss Snow read her letter to President Young and then wrote to Louisa that the President said, "Tell her I will give her that work as a mission and will bless her in it." The great leader of his people, Brigham Young, proved faithful to that promise, as he did to all his promises of blessings to all who trusted him as an inspired prophet of the Lord and sought to carry out his counsel. Louisa also proved faithful to the trust reposed in her. Early in the spring of 1872, Louisa left her home in Smithfield and became a permanent resident of Salt Lake City. The name of the new publication, The Woman's Exponent, as well as its editor, was a suggestion of E. L. Sloan's. At first the ladies thought it was not euphonious enough, but afterwards they accepted it. The intention was that the first issue of the paper should


bear the date of April 1, and be just in time for circulation at Spring conference, beginning April 6. But in this the editor and publishers were disappointed, because of some tie-up on the railroad preventing the arrival of paper which had necessarily been ordered from the east. By this hindrance the advent of the birth of The Woman's Exponent was deferred for two months. The delay proved advantageous, however, as it gave time for better preparation and some beneficial changes. The first home which Louisa found in the city was at the family residence of her great uncle, Lorenzo D. Young, who was bishop of the Eighteenth ward. The home was on State street, one block north of the Eagle Gate. There in her room the young woman began her editorial work. Her paper was first published by The Salt Lake Herald Company. Just west of the Eagle Gate, is the Lion House and there Eliza R. Snow lived as a member of the family of Brigham Young, one of his wives. It was very convenient for Louisa to visit her there. This she frequently did and often had the privilege of accompanying Sister Snow to the prayer room where the President met with his family morning and evening at the appointed hour for family worship. Louisa prized this sacred privilege very highly, it was a source of much comfort and keen enjoyment to her. "Aunt Eliza," as Sister Snow was affectionately called, and Miss Greene, who was becoming better known as "Lula," soon became very close and most sincere friends. They were truly like mother and daughter. They understood and appreciated each other. The love which existed between them was founded on gospel truth and was not to be shaken. Lula also found many others of the older and most prominent women of Utah tender and motherly in their feelings and deportment toward her. In fact she was shown great respect and friendliness everywhere, by all with whom she became acquainted. In that earlier time a General Board of the Relief Society was not organized extensively, as it is today. Lula soon became one of the sisters at the headquarters chosen at times to visit the different branches of the Society and to encourage, instruct and assist in uplifting and improving the work in general. And it is but expressing the truth to say she became a favorite with the sisters and was often asked for as a visitor at their special meetings and conferences. This gratifying recognition she enjoyed for many years not only among branches of the Relief Society but also with the younger associations. These privileges with their responsibilities came to her certainly from the fact of her having been selected as the pioneer editor among the women of the Latter-day Saints and her having accepted the position. That was the beginning of woman's journalism in Utah. The laying of a foundation upon which noble and progressive structures have been, and likely will continue to be, built.
The Relief Society Social Service Institute Cora Kasius
A twelve-weeks' course in family welfare work, conducted under the auspices of the Relief Society General Board, has just been completed. This is the second institute for which the board has been responsible, the first having been held at Provo, Utah, in connection with the Brigham Young University, in the summer of 1920. The present institute opened on March 11 and continued until May 29, meeting daily at Relief Society headquarters. The members of the institute were representatives from the various Salt Lake county stakes. Each of the nine Salt Lake county stakes was authorized to send one stake representative and four or five ward representatives. Two stakes asked for the special privilege of sending two stake representatives; so there were in all a total of eleven stake workers and twenty-six ward workers. Both the stake and ward workers met three days a week for three hours where an intensive study was made of methods of family welfare work, of special problems of health, mental disease, delinquency, etc., and of the literature on social work. The stake representatives were asked to be present two additional days each week, during which time they visited various institutions of the state and made a special study of social problems which are dealt with in the welfare departments of the Relief Society. The institute was under the supervision of Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary of the Relief Society, who was assisted by other General Board members and by Miss Cora Kasius and the following other members of the staff of the Relief Society Welfare Department: Miss Lydia Alder, Miss Genevieve Thornton, and Miss Anna Laura Stohl. A course of lectures was given by these social workers in modern methods of family welfare work. The lectures included a history of the charity movement, a study of social reforms, a study of the case work method, a discussion of the elements of normal life, an analysis of the standard of living, a study of problems of income and expenditure, of health problems, of behavior problems, of the backward child, and other related social problems. Mrs. Annie D. Palmer, social worker for the Castle Gate Relief Fund Committee, Miss A. A. Buffington, secretary of the Charity Organization Society of Salt Lake City, and Mrs. Amy W. Evans of the Relief Society General Board, addressed the institute on different occasions, presenting some of these subjects. In making a study of the various special problems, a number
A GROUP OF SOCIAL WORKERS IN THE SOCIETY SOCIAL SERVICE INSTITUTE 347
of experts were asked to give addresses to the institute. Problems of health, of mental disease, and of housekeeping were especially emphasized. The specialists made a very important contribution to the institute and their instruction was greatly appreciated by the members of the class and by the General Board. These lectures included: The family as a Social Unit, by Dr. E. Erickson of the University of Utah; A Report of the Goitre Survey of Utah, by Dr. James Wallace of the Utah State Board of Health; The Early Detection of Disease, by Dr. George W. Middleton. The Venereal Disease Control Program in Utah was the subject of two lectures given by Mr. Peter Kasius of the U. S. Public Health Service. Dr. Dean Brimhall of the New York Psychological Corporation appeared before the institute on two occasions, discussing the types and gradations of intelligence, and outlining the development of mental tests by psychologists. Dr. Foster J. Curtis of the U. S. Veterans' Bureau, gave a series of talks in which he discussed the types of mental disease, the early detection of mental disease, and the causes and treatment of mental disorders. Dr. G. H. Pace gave two lectures to the institute on Mental Hygiene, emphasizing particularly the behavior of children and the development of the Mental Hygiene Movement in America. Dr. Ray T. Woolsey addressed the Institute on the subject of pre-natal and maternity care, and Dr. A. L. Brown subsequently gave an address on infant welfare. During the Institute, four different nurses addressed the class: Mrs. J. D. Hammond of the Metropolitan Life Nursing Association, and Mrs. W. W. Hudson of the American Smelting & Refining Company, discussed the work of the Public Health Nurse; Miss Lucy P. Pocock, supervisor of Nurses of the L. D. S. Hospital, gave a talk on the health of the young girl, and Miss Dora Maben discussed the health problems of the pre-school child. Addresses on homemaking, on budget planning, and on food values, were made by Miss Jean Cox of the State Department of Education, and by Mrs. Lalene H. Hart of the Relief Society General Board. A study was first made of food values and the dietary needs of the human mechanism. In a practical way it was shown which foods and what amounts of food have been found to be essential to promote proper growth and development of individuals of various ages. A study was then made of the costs of foods and with this as a basis, various budgets were outlined and computed. Studies were made of the amount of money it would take to keep an infant, a sick person, a person living alone, and families of different sizes, supplied with the necessary food. Other costs besides food costs were studied and budgets covering all the expenditures of a family were computed for families of limited incomes. Plans were made for both small and large families and the figures were based on local prices,


Elder Stephen L. Richards, of the Quorum of the Twelve, and David A. Smith of the Presiding Bishopric, both addressed the class on different occasions emphasizing the need of spiritual instruction and the importance of spiritual growth in order to give to a family its greatest stability and its most permanent strength. A study of the literature of social work was an important part of the Institute. Various books by national authorities on social problems were presented to the class, some of them in lecture form. The class members were required to read and study four different books: The Normal Life, by Edward T. Devine; The Charity Visitor, by Amelia Sears; What Social Workers Should Know About their Communities, by Margaret Byington; The Art of Helping People Out of Trouble, by Karl De Scheinitz. Three hours a week were spent in reviewing and discussing the various books. Social Diagnosis, by Mary E. Richmond, was used as a reference book and also as a text by the instructors in planning the lectures in methods of family welfare work. The stake workers visited a number of institutions with the idea of learning what facilities the community has in treating problems of health, delinquency, crime, dependency, etc. The different health institutions visited were: the County Hospital, the County Infirmary, the Community Clinic, the City Board of Health, the Primary Convalescent Home, the State School for the Deaf and Blind, in Ogden, and the State Mental Hospital, in Provo. In making a survey of the community's resources for treating delinquency and crime, the following institutions were visited: the State Industrial School in Ogden, the Juvenile Court of Salt Lake City, the Girls' Detention Home, the City Court, the City Jail, the Sheriff's Office, the County Jail, and the State Penitentiary. Visits were also made to the Neighborhood House of Salt Lake City and the State Orphanage, where the work of these two institutions in caring for children was explained by the officers in charge. On the afternoon of June 1, closing exercises including a reception were held at the Relief Society headquarters where the members of the class were the guests of the General Board. The opening and closing prayers were offered by Counselor Jennie B. Knight and Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund of the General Board. A report of the Institute was made by Miss Cora Kasius; addresses were made by two class members, Mrs. Mabel W. James and Mrs. Clarice Tanner, and by President Clarissa S. Williams, Counselor Louise Y. Robison, and General Secretary Amy Brown Lyman of the General Board. Musical numbers were rendered by Mrs. Agnes Bolto, and at the close of the program, refreshments were served. A photograph which is printed herewith, was taken of the class members, of the stake Relief Society board members and the General Board members who were present.
SOCIAL SERVICE INSTITUTE 349
The attendance at the Institute was excellent, all the members making a very good record. Members of the General Board. And also members of the stake boards were invited to attend and there were always a number present. The enrolled members of the class, by stakes, were: Cottonwood: stake worker, Anna L. Johanson; ward workers, Pansy Olander, Francis D. Fowler, Margaret Powell; Ensign: stake worker, Mabel W. James; ward workers, Bae Williams, Sadie Cutler; Grant: stake workers, Marie H. Tanner, Marie K. Nash; ward worker, Mrs. M. C. Clements; Granite: stake worker, Mabel Olsen; ward workers, Gertrude Thompson and Hattie Blair; Jordan: stake workers, Maud P. Butterfield, Helen Vawdery; ward workers, Lucy B. Godfery, Mrs. J. W. Grace, Veda Cundick, Edna Call; Liberty: stake worker, Phoebe Lundberg; ward workers, Hetta Taylor, Sophronia Forsberg, Ruth Keyser, Ruby Stevenson, Aara Fagergren; Pioneer stake: stake worker, Jean V. Burt; ward workers, Clarice Tanner, Daisy Crockett, Eleanor Crockett, Maisie Hurst; Salt Lake: stake worker, Mary Ostler, ward workers, Julia G. Miller, Mrs. Maud Parry, Agnes McMillan, Amelia Winkworth, Mildred Jenkins; Oquirrh: stake worker, Lois Turpin.