Recipes for (Bread and Rolls Rhea H. Gardner ENRICHED WuiTE BREAD Makes Two Loaves 7 ¢. Sifted enriched white flour Y cake yeast, softened in % c. Lukewarm water 80° to 85° F, Place in mixing bowl: | 2% -¢c. Scalded milk | 3 tbsp. Sugar 3 tbsp. Shortening 1 tbsp. Salt When milk mixture has cooled to go°F., add 4 c. Sifted flour and beat well. Add the softened yeast. Add more flour, enough to make a soft dough. Mix until the dough forms in an elastic ball in the bowl. Cover and let rest 10 to 15 minutes. This will make the dough easier to knead. Put % c. Flour onto the kneading canvas and rub it into the portion where you will do the kneading. Knead 10 to 15 minutes. Cover the bowl or crock tightly. Keep the fermenting dough in a warm place, 80°F, away from drafts, until it is almost tripled in bulk. 'This will take about one hour and forty or fifty minutes for white dough. Punch it down, turn it over, cover, and let rise for about 1 hour. Mold into loaves and put into pans. Part of the white flour may be substituted with whole-wheat flour. Keep wholewheat dough as soft as you can possibly handle it. Whole wheat dough ferments much faster than does white dough. If it once gets too light, the finished bread will be coarse and crumbly. | FOUNDATION RECIPE SWEET YEAST Doucu i yeast cake softened in "4 c. Lukewarm water L milk, scalded 1% tsp. Salt % to % cc. Sugar % to % c._ shortening 1 OF 2 eggs, beaten 1 tsp. Grated lemon rind, if desired 4% C. _ sifted flour (use as much as % whole wheat flour, if desired) Soften the yeast in the lukewarm water. Scald the milk,. Cool to go°F. Add shortening, salt, and sugar. Add flour to make a thick batter. Add yeast, eggs, and lemon rind. Beat well. Add more flour, enough to make a soft dough. Cover and let rest 10 to. 15 minutes. 'Turn out on a lightly floured canvas-covered kneading board. Knead well until the surface is smooth and satiny, and is covered with tiny blisters. Place in an oiled bowl. Cover tightly and let rise till slightly more than doubled in bulk. Punch down and let rise 30 minutes. This second rising makes rolls with finer texture. Punch down and let rest 10 minutes. Shape into desired rolls. Cover and let rise in a warm place 80°F to 85°F. Until doubled in bulk. Bake m a moderate oven 375°F. 20 to 25 minutes for small or medium-sized rolls, or about 35 minutes for coffee cakes. TOPPINGS FOR SWEET ROLLS Streusel: 4% c. Butter | "4 C. Sugar ' c. Sifted flour | % tsp. Cinnamon Almond: % c. Sliced almonds " c. Sugar "2 tsp. Cinnamon Orange: 4 c. Grated orange peel — 1 ¢. | sugar Grate the yellow peel from the oranges. Rub into the sugar. This will keep indefinitely in your refrigerator if it is covered tightly.: Page 668 RECIPES FOR BREAD AND ROLLS 669 Butter ScotcH PEcAN ROLLS One recipe Foundation Sweet Yeast Dough Y% c. Melted butter or other shortening 1% c. Brown sugar 1 c¢. Pecan halves - Put % tsp. Butter, 1 tsp. Brown sugar, and three or four pecan halves into each cup of the oiled muffin tins. Roll sweet yeast dough into long narrow sheets one-half inch thick and 8 inches wide. Brush with melted butter and sprinkle with brown sugar. Roll up, jelly roll fashion. Cut into 1-inch slices. Place slices with cut edge down into prepared muffin tins. Cover with a damp cloth and let rise in a warm place (80° to 85°F.) away from drafts until doubled in bulk. Bake in 375°F. Oven 20 to 25 minutes. Let rolls stand in pan one minute before turning out. Harriet McNeil Bradshaw &nyoys a Life of Creativity Through Hobbies HE hobbies of Harriet McNeil Bradshaw, seventy-nine, of Salt Lake City, Utah, have provided a satisfying source of creativity. Many of the pieces which she has started as hobbies have been inevitably given to her family and friends. Other articles beautify her home. 'Ten years after her marriage to John Bradshaw, she owned thirty quilts of her own making, and during the years she has made nearly one hundred and fifty quilt tops. The homes of her six children are beautified by her quilts and other articles of exquisite handwork. She embroiders and crochets pillow cases, doilies, hot pads, and chair sets. A crocheted bedspread is one of the loveliest pieces of her handicraft. Her own designs are worked into many of the articles. She also mends and upholsters furniture and makes rugs. Sister Bradshaw has been active in Relief Society for many years, having served as a counselor in the Francis Ward Relief Society, South Summit Stake, Utah. She has been a visiting teacher for nearly fifty-four years.