[WomansExponent | Vol35 | 1906 | July | Issue: 2 | Title: In Memoriam | Author: Unknown]

IN MEMORIAM.
	To the memory of Mary Jane Wheelan who de-
parted this life, September 23rd, 1905.
	Whereas our Heavenly Father has in His in-
finite wisdom, called from our midst our beloved
sister and co-laborer, Mary Jane Wheelan, and
	Whereas the long and intimate relation with her
and the faithful discharge of her duties in this
society makes it eminently befitting that we record
our appreciation of her, and feel comforted in the
assurance that, if worthy, we will meet and enjoy
her society again,
	Resolved, that we extend to the bereaved our
sincere sympathy and pray God that His comforting
influen[-]e may be with them, and lead their hearts
to acknowledge His goodne[-]s even in their sore
bereavement.
	Resolved by the sisters of the Third ward Relief
Society that we mourn our loss and that we appre-
ciate the purity of her life and the worthy example
she has set us to follow. Be it further 
	Resolved that a copy of these resolutions be pre-
sented to the family of the deceased: be placed on
the records of our society and a copy be sent to
the EXPONENT and our local paper for publication.
		Gone to a peaceful, happy rest,
		Free from life’s grief and pain,
		Worker, beloved, has joined the blest,
		Our loss is her infinite gain.
	Mary E. Abel, Ann E. Clayson, Carrie Daniels.
	in behalf of the Third Ward Relief Society,


WOMAN’S EXPONENT

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00 one copy six month
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year. 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpanel
space one time $2.50 per month. $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
econd-class matter.

