CHRISTMAS LULLABY wat XM oe jush, little baby, the snow lies deep, \\~_ filigree-frost on. The window pane. Hush Mitttlesbaby, and sleep... And sleep..., © "= Christmas. Has-come to the world again. "Mary one. Cradled a Iittle$6n And sang him. To*slumber that other night, Looked on him gently, the Holy One, And shepherds watched and a star burned bright. Mary sang in the sweet soft hay While camel bells tinkled upon the air, And even the cattle knelt, they say,: And the little gray donkey that brought her there. Hush, little baby, this Christmas night, The snow lies deep and the wind blows white, And bells make music and carols ring And the world is worshipful, listening. The fires fade and the lights grow dim, _.. And Mary is singing her song to him. RS ¢ ° ayy. Betty W. Madsen - OK ON man. Lorie Cover: The Playful Madonna —_ From a Painting by Antonio Allegri da Corregio (Italian~1494-1534) Color Separations by Wheelwright Lithographing Company Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press _ Frontispiece: Evening Travelers Photograph by Harold M. Lambert Studios ~ » Art Layout: Dick Scopes; {ilustrations: «© Mary Scopes ': ': 881 '; i ' I want to thank you for the wonderful Magazine, and especially for the July and August issues. It has been some months since we had a Magazine since coming to the Canal Zone, and then we received two in one day. The poems in them by Hazel Loomis were especially dear to me because she is my cousin, and we have not seen each other in such a long time. I feel as if we have had a good visit (''By Handcart Came''—July Frontispiece; ''Patch Quilt,'' August 1969, page 589). The gospel is here, and the sisters are especially good to us. Ora M. Welch, Pacific Branch, Canal Zone Today my August Magazine came—but so did two little chidren to play with my own daughter while their mothers helped with our ward project. Three children between one and two years of age keep me hopping. Somehow I was able to fit the three completely different schedules into one—and now they are all napping.! Picked up the Magazine, and the editorial ''Leisure for Oneself,'' by Marianne C. Sharp, really hit the spot—a couple of hours of leisure time, well deserved and much needed. Thanks for ail that The Relief Society Magazine stands for. Kenon King, Van Nuys, California Thanks so much for the wonderful Magazine. It helped me through many a lonely time when I was single. It contains beautiful stories that can uplift the soul of a lonely soldier far from home. Thanks again for the wonderful sisters of Relief Society. Sgt. Brent Boehme, Denver, Colorado I would like to thank my Aunt Millie Halladay and her family for sending me the lovely Relief Society Magazine. She recently passed away and is greatly missed by all who knew her, but the Magazine she left us is precious. It is the only link we have with our beloved Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. We live too far away to attend any ward or branch. I love the dear poems of Bertha A. Kleinman whom I had the privilege of meeting in person in my home town—Mesa, Arizona. We appreciate the Magazine so much that we study it from cover to cover. Clella Roseberry Lewis, Fruitvale, Texas I am thankful that I have been a member of the Relief Society for fifty-one years. I used to read the Magazine before I married. When I married in January 1918, my husband's mother was the president of the Heyburn, Idaho, Ward Relief Society. We subscribed for the Magazine so that I could enjoy its teachings. We were blessed with eleven children, seven of whom are still living. I am thankful for the poems and lessons and the beautiful message of the gospel truths published in the Magazine. Olive Christensen Warner, Declo, Idaho The Magazine is a magnificent testimony builder—and! Am now referring to the marvelous lessons that have been prepared for us all. I have been very fortunate to have been a spiritual living class leader for eight years, so I am familiar with these lessons. Marilyn Hershberger, Soldatna, Alaska I was so happy to receive the September Magazine. My health prevents me from attending Relief Society meetings as I would like to do, and so the Magazine has become ''my home Relief Society.' My daughters are three and one and a half. One of my most pleasant times is when three-year-old hops on the bed so that I can read the Magazine to her. We talk about the pictures and the stories and sometimes share the poems. I especially enjoyed the lovely color section in the September Magazine. Ann Allen, Richland, Washington 882 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter day Saints ©1969
Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.© 1969 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20¢ a copy. Payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Nc back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

=== ADVERTISEMENTS (from Out of the Dust, Margery S. Stewart. by the Relief) ===
Continuous Enrollment VA and Foreign Student Approved Indian Student Approved yt t * Send now for f., our brochure he 4 ¢ Nuva * 22 N. Country Club Drive Mesa, Arizona 85201 New Craft Medium Ra Nae's Plastic Dip Free Instructions Home of complete handicraft supplies Write for Catalog —50¢ 'Utah Craft & "Novelty 3220 South State Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84115 486-1017 —— BEST WISHES FOR A -_—— *K a DESERET [Pews PREsS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892 PLAN YOUR VACATION WITH US Annual Tours ROSE PARADE TOURS December 26th-January 2nd via San Francisco or via San Diego SOUTHERN TEMPLE TOUR March 15-21 Call or write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 958 996I-E081 ALFINOS ATI AO AMQUSIA "ory Of 7 RELIEF soc! EY, That 9 Must Be About Mm, Father's Buitnial" TERT TST Ti i Vi Vio Vio bs Christmas Gifts History of Relief Society 144 pages illustrated $4.00 The Relief Society Magazine: Inspirational articles, fiction, poetry, and the _ Relief Society educational program. $2.50 Sego Lily Jewelry: Necklaces Heavy chain, gold-filled with double gold-filled pendant. $8.75 Light chain, gold-filled with double goldfilled pendant. $6.00 Bracelet Gold-filled with double gold-filled pendant. $6.75 Pin Gold-filled. $3.75 Small Relief Society Emblem Pin (1/10—12 kt. Gold) $1.75 Cover for Binding Twelve Issues of the Relief Society Magazine. $1.75 '"'Wist Ye Not that I Must Be About My Father's Business?"' Book by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. This book is an engaging and _ highly informative account of the Passover and a valuable addition to any home library. $2.00 All Postpaid Available at Office of the General Board 76 North Main Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 Have the Sweetest Holidays.. ——<———— Try these C3 ta Lowes Holiday Cookies BON BON COOKIES 1 tbsp. Vanilla % cup soft butter 1% cups flour ¥, cup sifted U and I ¥% tsp. Salt Powdered Sugar ICING: Mix 1 cup sifted U and I Powdered Sugar, 2 tbsp. Cream, 1 tsp. Vanilla. Add food coloring. For Chocolate: Add 1 sq. Unsweetened (1-0z.) melted, and use % cup cream. Heat oven to 350° (moderate). Mix butter, sugar, vanilla. Blend in flour and salt thoroughly with hand. Add food coloring, if desired. Wrap level tbsp. Dough around FILLING: filling. Bake 1" apart on ungreased baking 1. Wrap a cherry, date, nut, chocolate piece, etc. Sheet 12 to 15 minutes, until set but not in Bon Bon Cookie dough—white (or tinted), brown. Dip tops of warm cookies in icing chocolate, or brown sugar. Or make the center Decorate. Makes 20 to 25 cookies itself of dough, mixed with chopped nuts or dates, CHOCOLATE DOUGH: Add 1 square etc. — then wrap. Unsweetened chocolate (1-0z.) melted. 2. Dip in icing after baking. You can vary your BROWN SUGAR DOUGH: Use % cup icings, chocolate, white, and assorted colors. Brown sugar (packed) in place of powdered 3. Top with coconut, nuts, colored sugar, chocolate sugar. Pieces or any other colorful toppings. Where is Sugarplum Land? It's all around you if you live where sugarbeets are grown. U and I Sugar sweetens the Ul economy of these areas. U and I SUGAR COMPANY Factories in Garland and West Jordan, Utah; near Idaho Falls, Idaho; Moses Lake and Toppenish, Washington.

=== UNCAPTURED BODY TEXT (1 segments, 18,967 chars) ===

Betty W. Madsen - OK ON man. Lorie Cover: The Playful Madonna —_ From a Painting by Antonio Allegri da Corregio (Italian~1494-1534) Color Separations by Wheelwright Lithographing Company Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press _ Frontispiece: Evening Travelers Photograph by Harold M. Lambert Studios ~ » Art Layout: Dick Scopes; {ilustrations: «© Mary Scopes ': ': 881 '; i ' I want to thank you for the wonderful Magazine, and especially for the July and August issues. It has been some months since we had a Magazine since coming to the Canal Zone, and then we received two in one day. The poems in them by Hazel Loomis were especially dear to me because she is my cousin, and we have not seen each other in such a long time. I feel as if we have had a good visit (''By Handcart Came''—July Frontispiece; ''Patch Quilt,'' August 1969, page 589). The gospel is here, and the sisters are especially good to us. Ora M. Welch, Pacific Branch, Canal Zone Today my August Magazine came—but so did two little chidren to play with my own daughter while their mothers helped with our ward project. Three children between one and two years of age keep me hopping. Somehow I was able to fit the three completely different schedules into one—and now they are all napping.! Picked up the Magazine, and the editorial ''Leisure for Oneself,'' by Marianne C. Sharp, really hit the spot—a couple of hours of leisure time, well deserved and much needed. Thanks for ail that The Relief Society Magazine stands for. Kenon King, Van Nuys, California Thanks so much for the wonderful Magazine. It helped me through many a lonely time when I was single. It contains beautiful stories that can uplift the soul of a lonely soldier far from home. Thanks again for the wonderful sisters of Relief Society. Sgt. Brent Boehme, Denver, Colorado I would like to thank my Aunt Millie Halladay and her family for sending me the lovely Relief Society Magazine. She recently passed away and is greatly missed by all who knew her, but the Magazine she left us is precious. It is the only link we have with our beloved Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. We live too far away to attend any ward or branch. I love the dear poems of Bertha A. Kleinman whom I had the privilege of meeting in person in my home town—Mesa, Arizona. We appreciate the Magazine so much that we study it from cover to cover. Clella Roseberry Lewis, Fruitvale, Texas I am thankful that I have been a member of the Relief Society for fifty-one years. I used to read the Magazine before I married. When I married in January 1918, my husband's mother was the president of the Heyburn, Idaho, Ward Relief Society. We subscribed for the Magazine so that I could enjoy its teachings. We were blessed with eleven children, seven of whom are still living. I am thankful for the poems and lessons and the beautiful message of the gospel truths published in the Magazine. Olive Christensen Warner, Declo, Idaho The Magazine is a magnificent testimony builder—and! Am now referring to the marvelous lessons that have been prepared for us all. I have been very fortunate to have been a spiritual living class leader for eight years, so I am familiar with these lessons. Marilyn Hershberger, Soldatna, Alaska I was so happy to receive the September Magazine. My health prevents me from attending Relief Society meetings as I would like to do, and so the Magazine has become ''my home Relief Society.' My daughters are three and one and a half. One of my most pleasant times is when three-year-old hops on the bed so that I can read the Magazine to her. We talk about the pictures and the stories and sometimes share the poems. I especially enjoyed the lovely color section in the September Magazine. Ann Allen, Richland, Washington 882 Relief Society Magazine Volume 56 December 1969 Number 12 C, lan on ~ Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford Business Manager Belle S. Spafford  ERM President Hugh B. Brown Of the First Presidency [Address delivered at the General Session of Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 1, 1969.] @ My dear sisters of the Relief Society of the Church, it is an honor and a privilege to be asked _ to participate in the programs of this general conference. It is hoped that we may define and delineate some of the distinguishing characteristics of this great organization whose motto, as you have heard, is charity, and, may I add, whose slogan is service.. President David O. McKay would be here if he could. I am sure if he could have been given the choice of which session of the general conference he would attend, if he could only attend one, he would choose to attend this session. His spirit is with you, his heart is with you, and he sends his love and his greetings. Religion has too often spent a large proportion of its effort on doings apart from the real business of life. One of life's problems is to establish a deep understand- 884 ing of man's relationship to his fellow men. When that relationship is faulty, men are not living in the just, helpful, and cooperative fellowship which the Savior enjoined. On every hand we see an appalling human need awaiting the harness of religious power and zeal. One of mankind's most insistent needs is the interpretation of religion in terms of service. Let us go back for instruction to the Hebrew Prophet Micah: Wherewith shall I come before the Lord, and bow myself before the high God? Shall I come before him with burnt offerings, with calves of a year old? Will the Lord be pleased with thousands of rams, or with ten thousands of rivers of oil? Shall I give my firstborn for my transgression, the fruit of my body for the sin of my soul? He hath shewed thee, O man, what is good; and what doth the Lord require of thee, but to do justly, and to love mercy, _ and to walk humbly with thy God? (Micah 6:6-8.) Man's curious ability to keep divine relationships in one compartment of life and human relationships in another is wrong. They belong together. And in the Relief Society they are together. For the Relief Society knows no division of our obligations to God and to his children. Too much of religion's driving power remains unharnessed to the needs that he all about us. The Prophet Isaiah spoke directly to this subject when he said, Wash you, make you clean; put away the evil of your doings from before mine eyes; cease to do evil; Learn to do well; seek judgment, relieve the oppressed.... (Isaiah 1:16-17.) Fortunately, in the lives of many people, piety really does involve goodness, and faith involves justice, and _ worship, humaneness, and their life with God has a definite connection with their daily relationships. It makes them better home folk, better friends, neighbors, and citizens. The prayer of Charles Kingsley could well become a part of -our daily worship. He said, "Guide me, teach me, strengthen me till I become such a person as thou wouldst have me be, pure and gentle, trustful and_rightminded, brave and able, courteous and generous, dutiful and useful." That sounds to me like a Relief Society prayer. Religious life should inspire practical goodness and daily usefulness. God dwells in the hearts of the human family as well as in temples. The Lord said through the Prophet Hosea, "... I desired mercy, and not sacrifice; and the knowledge of God more than burnt offerings." (Hosea 6:6.) Service The Savior, while he lived among men, in order to emphasize the meaning of service, ate with the ceremonially unclean, transgressed the law of the Sabbath in the interest of human helpfulness, and gave his life as a service to mankind. Jesus emphasized the truth that God is not primarily in the Church, but in the midst of the needy, sinning, failing yet aspiring humanity. Paraphrasing Henry Ward Beecher, religion means work. The battle of religion, like all other battles, means peril, blows given, but blows taken as well. Religion means transformation. Dr. Wilford Grenfell, the Lincoln of Labrador, with whom I was briefly associated during the First World War, made the statement, "Whether we, our neighbor, or God is the judge, absolutely the only value of our religious life to ourselves or to anyone else is what it fits us for, and enables and inspires us to do.". Every man's religion should have practical issue, not merely emotional responsiveness which delights in hearing the gospel, but lacks diligence in living it. We must remember that religion is action, not diction. Let us pray that God will deliver us from our dullness of conscience, from a feeble sense of duty, from thoughtless disregard of others, and from all half-heartedness in our work. The Hebrew prophets had a supreme abhorrence of what they called "unmoral" religion, and the Master shared their conviction. He pilloried the Pharisees in everlasting scorn. Their petti- 

885 December 1969

 ness, their quibbling, their false emphasis, their bigotry, and the uncharitableness of their lives, their lack of forthright honesty, aroused his indignation. Their religion made them worse, not better. To the Master, religion meant graciousness and magnanimity, self-forgetfulness and self-denial, high purpose and deep joy in the ministry, boundless brotherhood and love blocked by no ingratitude or sin. There was inexhaustible goodwill in all of his teachings, and he emphasized over and over again the need and blessing of service— outgoing service to all those whose lives we touch. No one can doubt the central place which service held in the life of the Savior, as it is referred to in the parable of the Good Samaritan or in that other solemn utterance where the standing of the dead before the throne of God depended upon whether they had fed the hungry, clothed the naked, given drink to the thirsty, and visited the imprisoned and the sick. He said of himself, "... The Son of man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister, and to give his life a ransom for many." (Matthew 20:28.) He that is greatest among you should not call himself a disciple of the Master until he possesses the spirit and knows the meaning of service. An aged and industrious Relief Society worker once said, "There's a lot of room in heaven, but there's no place to sit down!" Today we are confronted with many social evils—we have war, poverty, disease, ignorance, vice —all of which have become com- 886 monplace in the modern world. One-third of the population of the globe, nominally Christian, has seemingly failed to realize the full meaning of Christianity. Religion must not become an isolated and uninfluential afterthought. On Sundays, when the banks and stores are closed and the rest of life is still, when the finer forces stir within us, we go in company with our family and friends to the Church for formal worship. This is good. But when it is over, we too often close the door on that experience and return to the routine and mundane affairs of life. The Relief Society, and all the members thereof, are, or should be, willingly harnessed to the task of serving their fellow men. And this is a continuing obligation and a continuing benediction. Strictly speaking, our worshiping assemblies on the Sabbath day should not be called "church service" for church _ service should begin on Monday morning and last all through the week. Church service is helpfulness to people. Public worship is but preparation for that helpfulness. Ours should be a life of ministry amidst the dust and din of daily business. The Hebrew prophets directed their scorn against the religious trivialities of their day and the Savior scorned the quibbling minds that tithed mint, anise and cummin, yet neglected the weightier matters of the law. With the experience of two world wars behind us, and now the hapless war on foreign soil, thoughtful men are coming to realize that some things which were once deemed important are really of small account. We must somehow get rid of our ante-bellum concepts and address ourselves to the stupendous task of making over the shattered world preparatory to the millennium, when the battered and broken lives of the unfortunate and the sinful can be reclaimed; when our social life, its business, I its statecraft, its international relationships can be transformed by the renewing of men. With so much work to be done, so much action on many fronts, we cannot afford to ride theological hobbies or be obsessed with favorite fashions in religious phylacteries, else we shall miss the main issue of the gospel. He who travels widely and observes carefully is impressed by the spiritual desolation of millions of men who live near expensive churches but are impressed and disillusioned by the frivolous futility of much that is called religion. It becomes, in fact, a ghastly mockery. When we think of the One who came to seek and to save those who were lost, and when we observe the apathy or, at best, the fitful interest in other than outward appearance, when we become concerned only with our meetinghouses, our tabernacles, and temples, let us look about us and see the millions who are not affected thereby. We should resolve to reach out our hands and save them from the _ inferno toward which they are moving, and we should concentrate all our energies on the united effort to rescue some, at least, of them whom Christ came to save. Too many men accept religion, profess to love it, and cleave unto it, not from many unselfish moService tives but solely because of an inward peace, a quieted conscience, and the radiant hope which they, themselves, get from it. Religion then becomes not a stimulus but a sedative. It is used not as an inspiration to service, but as a substitute for service. We too often have mystical experiences of the spiritual, and a peaceful sense of being pardoned by God and reconciled with him, as we purr and primp in the shade of public praise. Religion reaches such men only on their receptive side. They are yielding to the lure of selfishness. The Master and his disciples referred often to the tendency among their followers to become hearers of the word rather than doers. The Savior said, And every one that heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them not, shall be likened unto a foolish man, which built his house upon the sand.... (Matthew 7:26.) And Paul wrote that not the hearers of the law are just before God, but the doers of the law. While we live, we should try to make each day a year so far as beauty, nobility, and a warm sense of brotherhood are concerned. In a time when there is so much cruelty abroad, we must generate the oxygen of love to keep the soul of the world still breathing. Religion should summon all of us to deepen the quality of life as compensation for diminution of its quantity, to treasure each other in the recognition that we do not know how long we shall have each other, to make life strong and brave and beautiful is our answer to the inexorable approach of the forces of death 

887 December 1969

 abroad in the world. We must make up for the threatened brevity of life by heightening the intensity of life. Our very understanding of each other can serve to deepen life even when we cannot lengthen it. The mission of the Relief S0- ciety, and it is discharging this obligation admirably, is to establish in the hearts of men and women a love that involves unselfishness, willing sacrifice, mutual forbearance, absolute fidelity, boundless devotion. There is a drawing power in love. You can feel it just as surely as you can feel heat or cold. "I will draw all men unto me," said Jesus. Whenever you come into the presence of a loving heart, if you are in tune, you will feel the heavenly power and will be drawn by the magnetism of love. Service is included in, and is a product of love. So long as we love, we serve. "Not what we give but what we Share, for the gift without the giver is bare," said Sir Launfal. And James Russell Lowell said, "All the beautiful sentiments in the world weigh less than a single lovely action." And from Sir Walter Scott, "It is greater to do a kind deed than to write a novel." Let this ever be our prayer as we labor in Relief Society: "Help us, O Lord, to find those who need us." Too many are comfortable in the luxury of their self-approval as they listen with receptiveness to the consolations which come from those who hear the gospel message. Let everyone get under the load of responsibility, and realize that every doctrine has its 888 associated duty, that every truth has its task. The gospel when the Master first proclaimed it, was not intended primarily for preaching—it was intended for action. Surely there is a challenge to all Christians who look about them and see the appalling sin, the haggard want, the infuriating oppression which befall millions of our fellow men—for every one of whom the Savior died. Lord, we cannot serve thee as did Martha in those days, But we can seek and find thee in a thousand other ways. The poor, the hungry, and the weary cry out ceaselessly, And every home, if filled with love, can be a Bethany. The: inevitable expression of real Christianity is a life of sacrificial service. No man can truly assimilate Christianity by impression alone, there must be expression as well. MY LAMP I met a stranger in the night, whose lamp had ceased to shine, I paused and let him light his lamp from mine. A tempest sprang up later on, and shook the world about, And when the wind was gone, my lamp was out. But back came to me the stranger—his lamp was glowing fine; He held the precious flame and lighted mine. I want to congratulate the President and her Counselors on their magnificant addresses this afternoon and I am humble in being asked to follow them. Surely we have no greater preachers of the gospel than you members of the Relief Society. We want you to know that we love, admire, support and depend upon you for the work of the gospel of Jesus Christ. It seems to me that the Relief Society is really the backbone of the Church. For that I humbly thank God, and being a married man, I know what it is to have the woman standing beside you, upholding and defending you and encouraging you when you are up against real problems. May all of us be inspired to seize the torch and hold it high, remembering that we may from one candle light a_ thousand others without diminishing our own. May our lives be given to charity and service and thus may Service we become real servants of the Master. Thank you for permitting me to participate briefly, and may God's choicest blessings be with your General Presidency, the General Board, with your stake and ward, mission, branch officers and teachers, and with all the members of the Relief Society throughout the world. O God, bless and sanctify the efforts of our sisters upon whom we depend so completely for their help and for their inspiration. We thank you so very much and pray God's blessing upon you in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.