[WomansExponent | Vol35 | 1906 | March | Issue: 8 | Title: Mrs. Howe and her Portrait | Author: Unknown]

MRS. HOWE AND HER PORTRAIT.
	“Mrs. Julia Ward Howe attended the
exhibition of Mr. Carnig Eksergian’s por-
traits, held recently in Boston, and made
the rounds of the rooms on the painter’s
arm, stopping a few moments before each
picture to comment upon it. Wearing a
dress of shimmering pale green silk, with
her white hair and vivid smile, as she
leaned on the arm of the slender, dark,
foreign artist, she made so charming a
picture that all the visitors turned from
the portraits to look at her, and many
sighed for a camera. Before her own
portrait, which represents her with her
arms full of Easter lilies, she made a long-
er pause, and people had a chance to ad-
mire the likeness. This is almost the only
picture of Mrs. Howe which represents
her with a smile on her face. In her
portraits her expression is always sorrow-
ful or stern. Her husband once upbraid-
ed her for this. He said, “You are the
jolliest woman I know, yet in your pho-
tographs you always look as if I had
dragged you through every torment!”
Mrs. Howe is now collecting the music
of which she has composed a good deal
during her life, and is going to publish a
book of her original songs. They are
great favorites with her children and
grandchildren.”
	Whereas in the second Hague Confer-
ence there will be offered the greatest
opportunity in human history to lessen
the burden of militarism: therefore.
	Resolved that we request the President
of the United States to approve the rec-
ommendations for the action of the ap-
proaching Hague Conference which were
presented by the Inter-Parliamentary
Union.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

			Woman’s Exponent.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy s x month
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpanel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
