[WomansExponent | Vol35 | 1906 | March | Issue: 8 | Title: BEAUTIFUL TRIBUTE TO MOTHERHOOD | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

BEAUTIFUL TRIBUTE TO MOTHERHOOD
	Remarks by President Nephi L. Mor-
ris at the funeral services of Sister Cath-
erine Perkes McAllister in the 19th ward
Chapel, Sunday afternoon, Feb. 3rd,
1907. Stenographic report by Frank W.
Otterstrom.
	I feel, good friends, that we could well
tarry here. This is a sacred place: it is a
holy hour; it is a time when friends have
assembled in sympathy to express by their
mute presence the love and tender regard
they hold for a friend that has gone be-
fore. And here, lulled by the melody of

[Column 2]
sweet sounds, suffused in the fragrance
of flowers—which are God’s tender ex-
pressions to us—within each heart a
flower of feeling still more delicate and
beautiful. I feel that in such an assembly
we might well afford to tarry, and let the
soul of each go out and commune with its
neighbor soul. How beautiful it is to
contemplate the resignation and fortitude
exhibited by men and women of the most
exquisite sympathy, confronting one of
the greatest trials of life, the loss of a
friend, of wife, of mother. Instead of
weeping and wailing aloud as was done in
olden time, friends come together and
sing songs of praise and tenderness, and
bring floral offerings to express in the
most beautiful way possible the truest
feelings of their hearts. Grief has not
power to distress nor distract under the
spell of resignation and fortitude, which
is shown on occasions such as this. I say
how sweet it is to contemplate the holi-
ness and the sacredness of such a gather-
ing. It was not always so. When the
earth was young, before man had learned
to fortify himself against his dark foe,
these pangs of sorrow and grief were not
to be so assuaged. In those days—the
morning time of man’s experience—the
“grief-stricken and prostrated husband,
father or friend, would clothe his emaci-
pated form with a coarse garb called sack-
cloth, throw himself on the ground and
strew ashes over his body, and in the most
pitiful silence and agony would lie for
days. When the oppressive cloud of
gloom had lifted somewhat, the mourn-
ers would appear weeping and wailing,
and sorrow uncontrolled would be allowed
to surge like billows of the sea. The
splendid advancement that has been
made in respect to trials and sorrow, from
that day to this, may be appreciated on
this occasion, so beautiful, so impressive
is it. It betokens a fortitude that is God-
like.
	Man’s capacity is exhibited in his ability
to meet adversity. The human soul has
grown larger and stronger and deeper,
and its mental expanse more vast. Man
can now meet Death, and in his very
presence be resigned and steadfast in
soul. Who wrought this great miracle,
this splendid victory over human sym-
pathy and weakness, over human despair
and hopelessness? Only One in all the
world’s history proclaimed a knowledge
of the mysteries of life and death, and
over both he claimed to have absolute
power. “I have power to lay down my
life, and I have power to take it up
again.” The Scientist, Saint, and Proph-
et, who understood these great mysteries
which shroud our beginning and our end,
to Him is due the honor and praise for
this victory which has been wrought in
the human race.
	The poor Indian, when once his tapee
has been overshadowed by death, can no
longer dwell there. Taking up his wig-
wam, he moves to another place where he
may dwell and not be haunted by the evil
spirit of death, nor be disturbed by those

[Column 3]
dark fears which brood over the spot
where Death has gained a single victory.
To us the resting place of the dead is
sacred, even their presence is holy,
Thank God for such a readjustment of
the human soul to this ever constant
foe, or friend, as we may choose to deem
him.
	It is beautiful to contemplate the life of
our dear friend who has gone to her re-
ward. I sometimes feel in the presence of
a woman who has filled the full measure
of her being as a mother, and has done so
acceptably to those to whom she owed
such sacred obligations, that I stand in
the presence of the most sacred life con-
ceivable. In this life we all struggle for
the expression of that which is best in us;
and no matter where our life’s work may
be, in the shop, or on the farm, in the
marts of trade, or on the highway, in the
studio producing sculpture and paintings,
or in the seclusion of the study compos-
ing poetry, or music, our life is being ex-
pressed in every act, great or small. He
who lives life the best expresses himself
most nobly. What a beautiful expression
to life is given the mother—sublime mat-
rix of the world”—the mother of all liv-
ing. And our departed sister was a moth-
er of sons and daughters—priceless gifts
bestowed upon the world. How sublimely
is her life expressed! Need we inscribe
epitaphs to her honor? Need we speak
her praise or erect a monument to her
memory? She has reared her own monu-
ment; she has spoken her own praises bet-
ter than we can. She has written in
eternal fire and life’s blood her own epi-
taph. Behold her sons and daughters,
her true and devoted husband. These
are her kingdom; they are her life. She
dwells in them and they in her. This is
her eternal glory. We speak of the
hereafter; we are already in eternity. The
foundations of the kingdom laid by this
good woman and her noble and true com-
panion are eternal; they are not to be
dissolved, nor is the compact that holds
them together to be annulled. They are
already immortal ties.
	Of her life we might speak further, but
time restrains us. She was, like many
other women, a sufferer. It seems to me
that the apotheosis of woman is through
her suffering, and in her destined sorrows
she nearest approaches the Son of Man,
the greatest of sufferers. His life was the
sweetest that was ever lived, yet it was
the saddest life the world ever saw.
Jesus, the man of sorrows the God-man.
And He is approached, I say, more near-
ly by woman in her sufferings for others,
than by any one else. Why is it so? We
might well ask why is it that suffering
should form so great a part of our exper-
ience in this earthly existence. The
longer I live the more I am driven to the
conclusion that life is a great school of
experience, and we are sent here to learn
certain lessons. It is a compulsory sys-
tem of education, too, which is in vogue
here; there is no playing truant; each
must learn the lessons for himself. When


[Column 1]
they are learned they are not required of
us again.
	How exquisitely has God made physical
man. So sensitive, so delicately nerved
that his flesh fairly quivers with sensitive-
ness, feeling the pressure of the evening
breeze, the touch of a friend, the prick of
the thorn; susceptible almost to the un-
seen, is this physical man; and yet is he
thrown in the midst of the most cruel en-
vironments. In every hour of his life he
is threatened by foes from without
and foes from within. This man
so delicate, so sensitive, so exquisi-
tely made and vibrant with life and feel-
ing! Was it not intended that he suffer?
Pain is nature’s danger signal. We learn
by what we suffer, and when once the
child burns its little hand, it has learned
a law, and it does not need to be taught
again.
	Compared with the physical man, the
spiritual man is still more refined and deli-
cate,—so responsive, so sympathetic is
that part of man that a ohord of music
may cause the heart to well with emotion;
the smile of a friend may fill the soul with
delight, and even unseen influences are
palpable to the soul, so exquisite is its
nature. Yet God has sent that soul into
this world of woe, surrounded by a harsh
environment of evil and sin, encountered
in all their fury. And these dark powers
are permitted to make attack upon the
soul. And why? That we may gain ex-
perience and prove true to the best that
is in us. And here upon the battle ground
of mortality, that we might win glory,
honor, and eternal life. That is why we
are here; that is the philosophy of life,
as I am led to believe.
	We should assemble around the grave
and around the remains of one whose life
is closed, with these thoughts in our
minds. Here is a life that ends in a su-
perb victory; a woman who has been true
to every trust imposed upon her, true to
her own divine nature and origin—a
mother successful, a wife adored. And
as such we stand around her, as in the
presence of the holiest and the purest. May
God preserve her memory green to all of
us, and may his sustaining influence be
with those whom she leaves behind,
though it be but for a short time, as has
been said, when they shall be reunited—
not as angels, but as mother, as wife, as
friend. These ties of the family are
eternal; and they shall be renewed in
that holy relationship, just as soon as
those whom she leaves behind follow in
her path. And may God preserve them
that they may be true and faithful that
this reuniting may be a holy one, a happy
one. May peace be upon the congrega-
tion, and all who bear this sorrow. May
they be given strength to endure, and hope
and light to peer through the darkness, is
my prayer through Christ our suffering
Lord. Amen.

	Sister Catherine Perkes McAllister was
born in Liverpool, England, February 16,
1846. Came to Utah in 1861 with her
parents and family. Joined the Taber-
nacle choir in that year and continued a
member of that organization, and of the
Old Folks’ choir until her death. Be-
came the wife of Elder Duncan M. Mc-
Allister in i866. Was the mother of seven
children, two of whom died in infancy,
the others are living, respected members

[Column 2]
of the community, and there are five
grandchildren. The bereaved husband
and children are comforted by the assur-
ance the Gospel gives, that she has
earned a celestial reward.
	Poem by Sister Bertha Anderson Klein-
man. Lovingly inscribed to the memory
of her dear friend, Catherine Perkes Mc-
Callister.
		THE FIELDS SUBLIME.
“God’s acres”—what treasures are borne thro’
		your gates
	From the arms reaching out to restrain;
What rivers course silently into your gloom
	From the tears that fall daily like rain;
What mystery hangs over your harvest to be,
Yet how faint is the veil to the eyes that will see.
What promise and longings are melted to mist
	At your portals all shrouded and stern,
When the hearts that are silent pass into their
		rest,
	And the hearts that are aching return,
Yet pure and effulgent all day slanting down,
Is the light on the graves that consumes all your
		frown.
Blest fields with your seed undisturbed thro' the
		years,
	While the storms of men’s strife thunder near,
Where the voices of loved ones creep back to en-
		treat,
	And answer our longing—“Not here.”
Where over the echo of dust upon dust,
	Their anthem soars peacefully upward—“Trust,
		trust.”
Fair mounds closing over the best of our hopes,
	Your mystery can sound no despair,
In the brave souls ensheathed in the armor of
		faith,
	Who smile thro’ their tears gazing there;
For the firm hand that chastens is mighty to
		heal
And his touch is all love to the hands that will
		feel.
God’s favored are they who have treasures in
		bloom
	Mid the hush of “His acres” above,
For heaven were lonely that promised no joy
	Of reunion with those we have loved,
And deepest to wound but the strongest to save
Are the memories that cling to a precious one’s
		grave.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
