[WomansExponent | Vol15 | 1886 | February | Issue: 17 | Title: WHAT CAN I DO? | Author: Unknown]

	WHAT CAN I DO?

"What can I do," says the aged sire,
	As he stands near the bounds of life,
"What can I do other hearts to inspire,
	To help amid earth-care and strife?

"My time is far spent, for good or for ill,
	One moment I cannot recall;
My limbs have grown weary, though strong is the will
	And slowly the night shadows fall."

You can show to the youth where the pitfalls lie,
	And snares for unwary feet,
For we clearer see over days gone by,
	When the web of life is complete.

Those lessons in life are of priceless worth,
	If you've garnered the golden store;
Now bring them forth in the home and hearth,
	While you're nearing eternity's shore.

The mother dear, with silvered hair,
	Whose journey is well nigh done,
Dreams, while she sits in the old arm chair,
	With face toward the setting sun,

Of that other time, when life's sun arose,
	Pure and fresh and bright;
Thinks how the joys were oft mingled with woes,
	How tears oft quenched the light.

"What can I do, what can I do?"
	Is the prayer of her loving heart,
For those whose dreams of life are new,
	Those of her life a part.

She can strengthen the tender, untried feet,
	When the morning shadows fall;
She can teach the young hearts how to meet,
	The cares that must come to all.

She can tell of charity, faith and love,
	And the strength that prayer can give;
She can tell of that peace from heaven above
	Which helps the weary live.

The boy goes forth in the morning's beam,
	With hopes and ambition high;
The future to him is a glorious dream,
	He heeds not the dangers nigh.

Two paths lie before him, the false and the true;
	One is death, the other is life,
Which will he take, what will he do
	In this wonderful conflict of life?

What can he do, what will he do 
	To bless or to darken the way?
'Tis a question for you, boys, a question for you,
	Think well 'ere from honor you stray.

You can bring joy and strength to the home,
	Which God unto you has given,
Aye, strength and joy, wherever you roam—
	You can help to make earth a heaven,

Or you can bend its grey heads down
	So low that they cannot rise;
You can trample in dust life's brightest crown,
	That you might have raised to the skies.

You can break the hearts, most loving and true,
	Plant wormwood where roses might bloom;
A blight or a blessing will aye follow you
	In your pathway through life to the tomb.

And girlhood's dream, too, is bright and rare, 
	With no shadow of cloud or storm;
No thorn on the rose in her sunny hair,
	No cause for a fierce alarm.

But soon she will learn there's a part to bear 
	By each of God's children here,

[Column 2]
That she must have courage and strength to dare,
	To shrink not from danger near.

She can do much, in joy or pain,
	To cheer, to comfort and bless;
Can make sunshine brighter, bring hope again
	To the heart in its sore distress.

And the little ones in the household band,
	So helpless, so loving and dear,
They seem a gift from some fairy land,
	Sent unto mortals here.

Dark is the home with no baby face,
	No pattering feet, no clinging hand;
In every true heart their power we trace,
	As they lead to the Better Land.

Then, let no one think there is naught to do;
	Seek and ye shall find.
Cast in your lot with the good and true,
	And work to save mankind.
					Hope.
		[signature on document] Sarah E. Russell


[Column 1]
