[WomansExponent | Vol8 | 1879 | October | Issue: 10 | Title: THE SIX AGES. | Author: Unknown]

THE SIX AGES.

	A writer in an eastern journal has been
endeavoring to ascertain at what age men
are capable of doing their best work. His
method is to take the names of the illustri-
ous men of all times and countries, with
their ages when their greatest achieve-
ments were accomplished, and from these
to derive the average time of life at which
the important mental work of the world is
done, or the mean year of greatest produc-
tiveness. His list of great men includes
eight hundred names, and their most note-
worthy achievements number eighteen
hundred. The mean age of greatest pro-
ductivenness for all classes is found by this
method to be thirty-eight years and fifty-
two hundredths. This may be regarded as
the mental prime of life, which is attained,
if this progress gives trustworthy result,
from five to ten years earlier than has been
supposed. In the arrangement by classes,
it is found that lawyers and judges come
latest to maturity, or at least to a recogni-
tion of their power, the average age of
greatest productiveness with them being
forty five years and a little over. Professors
and educators come next, who have done
their best work at nearly forty-three years.
Then follow statesmen, divines, authors,
phyisicians, philosophers, artists and orators
whose age of greatest productiveness is
from their thirty-eight to forty years.
Next come commanders, scientists refor-
mers and philanthropists, whose chief work
is accomplished at thirty-six to thirty-
seven years; inventors, musicians and
travelers, who are at their best at from
thirty-one to thirty-five years, and actors
make their highest efforts earlier than any
other class, about the age of twenty-nine
years. By the use of the same materials,
the writer classifies the decades of life ac-
cording to their value to the world as


shown in the work accomplished by these
eight hundred eminent men. He arranges
the decades as follows:
	The golden decade is between 30 and 40;
the silver decade is between 40 and 50;
the brazen decade is between 20 and 30;
the iron decade is between 50 and 60; the
tin decade is between 60 and 70; the
wooden decade is between 70 and 80.


No man is over good for anything uutil he
has found two things—first, somthing to
love, and second somthing to reverence.

	The young lady whose society is-worth
having must be sought. She who endeavors
to thrust her company upon young gentle-
man is always avoided by the better classes,
both men and women.


Remedy for Croup.—One fourth of a teaspoon-
fnl of syrup of ipecac, and a pinch of pulverized
alum once in an hour or two according to the
severity of the disease. This is a dose for a child
from four to ten years of age.


[Column 1]
