[WomansExponent | Vol5 | 1876 | August | Issue: 6 | Title: WRITERS. | Author: Unknown]

WRITERS.

	"But words are things; and a small drop of ink,
	Falling like dew upon a thought, produces
	That which makes thousands, perhaps millions think."
		BYRON.
	Then let women talk and write and think.
It is a common saying, women talk too much;
it may be that they do about that which is of
no real importance, but upon subjects which
should be well understood, by women possess-
ing common intelligence, there are a vast ma-
jority who do not converse at all; to them it is
all rubbish, nonsense and unwomanly. They
prefer to have a husband, father or brother, to
think and act and speak for them; to attend to
them, to support them and to defend them.
It is to educate this class of women upon such
essential points, that it becomes more than
ever necessary to speak, and write, and har-
angue. The vine and oak theory, that has
been so romantically written about by a cer-
tain class of authors, will answer perhaps in
exceptional cases, but how it will apply to the
world of mankind and womankind in general,
those who are observers of modern society
can easily perceive.
	In this wonderfully enlightened nineteenth
century when there is so much questioning
of rights and equality and supremacy. and in-
feriority and superiority, and submission and
place and calling, and influence and individu-
ality, it is but natural to express some interest
on the subjects which bring to their aid such a
variety of adjectives to qualify and determine
their general and relative interest.
	It is a well-authenticated fact and palpable
to all the world, that there are thousands of
women, who have no such substantial support
to cling to, as an oak in the form of a husband,
father or brother, and of those who have, there
are many, who suffer more than those who
have not, from intemperance and other causes,
consequently it follows, that as vines they
would trail upon the earth, and very naturally
be trod upon just as thousands of women are,
who have been taught and encouraged in de-
pendence instead of independence.
	Circumstances and training it is said form
the individual; certainly they tend to strength-
en and develop important characteristics.
Custom the irrepressible tyrant, has in the
past constrained parents to train their boys for
the battle of life, the girls to look forward to
marriage as the one great aim of their exist-
ence. Now custom, alias fashion, argues men
cannot afford wives they are too expensive a
luxury; then women must necessarily look
around for some avenue of support, some prac-
tical, paying kind of labor. These matters re-
quire serious thought, require words, require

[COLUMN 2]

actions,—which will determine some positive
demonstration of the subject in question.
	Women cannot talk too much about these
matters, if they do so understandingly to as-
sist in enlightening themselves and others.
	The world says Polygamy makes women in-
ferior to men—we think differently. Polyga-
my, gives women more time for thought, for
mental culture, more freedom of action, a
broader field of labor, inculcates liberality and
generosity, develops more fully the spiritual
elements of life, fosters purity of thought and
gives wider scope to benevolence, leads wo-
men more directly to God the fountain of all 
truth, knowledge, light and intelligence.
	If those who are anxious to promote higher
development, would consider the true prin-
ciples upon which to base marriage, they would
look closely into the order of plural marriage,
and some of the most momentous questions
that are puzzling the world at the present
time, might thus be properly adjusted. Then
let women talk, and write, and reason, and
think, and interchange their ideas with each
other and with men. God has endowed wo-
man with reasoning and intuitive powers—
certainly He intended her to use her own
agency.
	E. B. Wells


[Column 1]
