[Vol50 | February 1963 | Page 102 | General Feature | Editorial: The Modern Homemaker Louise | W. Madsen]
[Editorial: The Modern Homemaker Louise W. Madsen]

editorial in the Deseret News of October 2, 1962 said: Filling their most historic and important function, Relief Society women made 357,000 visits to the sick and homebound, spent 30,000 days nursing the sick, gave 400,000 hours of other compassionate service — doing housework for incapacitated mothers, taking food to bereaved families, caring for children, and helping unfortunate families in many other ways. And so it goes; on every front the compassionate, efficient, charming women of the Relief Society go about their divinely given job of doing good, and almost countless are the husbands and children whose lives are richer and happier because of what the woman of the house brings home from Relief Society. I know you do much beyond the actual call of duty to bring comfort to the aged, the lonely, the homebound, and the ill. I recently had 


 a sister in the hospital seriously afflicted. I asked her if she was able to read and get comfort from the scriptures. She answered that she could read very little, but that she had a friend who came almost every day to read to her. I am sure the Lord will heap blessings upon the head of that friend for her kindness. I am told that a Primary teacher who lost her husband was forced to go to work at her profession to maintain her family. Her fellow teachers took turns in caring for her preschool child in their own homes. These are but samples of the kind of love that lies at the heart of Relief Society and its members. While the Prophet awaited martyrdom in Carthage he requested Elder Taylor to repeat his singing of the song, "A Poor Wayfaring Man of Grief," the lines of which I think fairly breathe in rhythm with the heart of Relief Society. 1 A poor wayfaring Man of gricf Hath often crossed me on my way, Who sued so humbly for relief That I could never answer, Nay. I had not power to ask his name, Whereto he went, or whence he came; Yet there was something in his eye That won my love; I knew not why. 2) Once, when my scanty meal was spread, He entered, not a word he spake; Just perishing for want of bread, I gave him all; he blessed it, brake, And ate, but gave me part again, Mine was an angel's portion then, For while I fed with eager haste, The crust was manna to my taste. 3 I spied him where a fountain burst Clear from the rock; his strength was gone; 88 The heedless water mocked his thirst; He heard it, saw it, hurrying on. I ran and raised the sufferer up; Thrice from the stream he drained my cup, Dipped and returned it running o'er; I drank and never thirsted more. 4 "Twas night; the floods were out; It blew a winter hurricane aloof; I heard his voice abroad and flew To bid him welcome to my roof. I warmed and clothed and cheered my guest And laid him on my couch to rest, Then made the earth my bed, and seemed In Eden's garden while I dreamed. 5 Stript, wounded, beaten nigh to death, I found him by the highway side; I roused his pulse, brought back his breath, Revived his spirit, and supplied Wine, oil, refreshment, he was healed; I had myself a wound concealed, But from that hour forgot the smart, And peace bound up my broken heart. 6 In prison I saw him next, Condemned to meet a traitor's doom at morn; The tide of lying tongues I stemmed, And honored him 'mid shame and scorn. My friendship's utmost zeal to try, IIe asked if I for him would die; The flesh was weak; my blood ran chill; But the free spirit cried, "I willl" 7 Then in a moment to my view The stranger started from disguise; The tokens in his hands I knew; The Savior stood before mine eyes. IIc spake, and my poor name he named, "Of mc thou hast not been ashamed: These deeds shall thy memorial be, Fear not, thou didst them unto me." (L. D. S. Hymns, No. 153) That the Lord will enable us to obtain and act upon the spirit of the heart of Relief Society, I humbly pray. Secon qd Prize-Winning Story 0 Relief Society Annual Short Story Contest WAI: Christie Lund Coles an unnaturally field of daffodils. N you firs by Wordsworth. Remem t look at her she spoke. When het mother ans Her son Gregory scious bidding, the I COLES CHRISTIE LUND _ clipped, at that INDY cried in pright voice, "Look It reminds t taught us, ber?" But mother as wered, her 'Yes, I re cleared his few months ag? She "Hor land's tout." Now, did it And he indeed remember ines of the being, through her FEBRUARY 1963 Well, she would have plenty of solitude now. Plenty. She. Still wanted to pinch herself to be sure it was true. Her own children whom she had reared and loved, and nursed: Cindy through several bouts of vicious rheumatic fever — before they had penicillin, or anything else to lower the fever or protect the heart — which had left her heart damaged. 'There had been icebags on it day and might for weeks. 'The neighbors had come in, taking turns at night. But she never missed a cry, a low moan of pain. That was her job. Just as it had been her job to take Gregory alone on the train to a strange city for a horrible mastoid operation. He was under sedation all the way. And, oh, the nightmare at the big, busy hospital. But, Father had to stay at the store. She wasn't sorry for herself. She had said often that mothers only did what their mothers had done for them, and what their children would do for their children. It was a pattern. A sort of hard pattern, but you learned to put the pieces together. Hat is, most of them. But this particular piece was one which she didn't want to put into place, she didn't want to believe it was possible she wouldn't be seeing these two, wouldn't hear the grandchildren say, "Hi, Grandma," or caress the great-grandchildren. Gregory was trying to make talk. He said, "You know, I met Jim Styles down town the other day. You know, the fellow who used to work for Father." ID he think she was daft or something, that she couldn't 90 She "He lives in a He does what He comes down town remember the hired help? Nodded. He said, home, says it's okay. He pleases. Every day." "What does he come down town everv day for?" his mother asked, crisply, and Gregory flushed before he said, "Well, he walks around, sees the sights." "Of course, he hasn't any family. No children to look after him." She was remembering the stooped, pathetic little man, and the words came out before she gave them much consideration. She could feel their faces set. And she unrolled the crochet-edged handkerchief in her crooked fingers. She wasn't going to beg them to keep her. No, siree. 'This whole thing had got her dander up. And they knew it. That's why they couldn't look her in the face, neither one of them. But she wasn't going to weep about it. As they told her, she would have to be "sensible" about it. She was getting old. She had to have special care. Nonsense. She wasn't like some doddering old ladies who had to have canes, and be helped all over. Of course, she had occasional dizzy spells, and once she had fallen, getting up in the night. But a young person could have done that. She felt as spry as she ever did. Well, most of the time, anyway. She stared straight ahead, and she was conscious that each of her children (her children who had come to mean the length and breadth of life to her for so long) was looking out of the windows, hesitant to speak. Finally, Gregory said, defensive- ly, "You know, Mother, that Kate isn't well. She's about ready to go down." "Women go down easy nowadays," his mother murmured, so softly that he didn't hear, and when he asked her what she said, she answered, "Nothing. Just nothing." But Cindy went on trying again to make her mother understand that which was not quite understandable. She said, "You know, Stan has been planning to take the girls to Europe for so long. They would just die if they didn't get to go this year. All the other girls are going. I wouldn't think of leaving you in that house alone with just the neighbors to take care of you... And Gregory looking in. You should be glad we want to take care of you, want you to have a good place to stay. And this is the best." "You mean this 'Manor House'?" "Yes, you can 'see it up there on the hill. Look at the beautiful grounds." "Looks just like any other institution to me. Who, in tarnation, thought to call these places Homes?" EITHER child answered, and the realization went about in her mind: It was sacrilege to take the name of the most intimate, the most personal of all places on earth and tack it on to places of formality and regimentation. As they drew nearer to the place, she said, trying to keep her voice firm and crisp, "Well, Pll go. But I don't feel right about it. I've still got some pride left." Her voice quivered foolishly and the nervous tears filled her eyes. 'They seemed forever on the surface THE HOME lately, just as they used to be in her own dear grandmother's when she was old. She had felt ashamed when she saw them, she felt ashamed of her own. Gregory sighed. Cindy wiped her nose, saying, "Maybe when we come back, we can work out something. But, for the time being, please try to be happy here." They had stopped, and Greg, the Third, had climbed out of the front seat and come around to open the door for them. 'The back of his neck was red, and his eyes looked funny as he said, "If they aren't good to you, Grandma, you just holler" "And I suppose you'll come running?" she questioned, pinching his ear lobe as she had done since he was knee-high to a grasshopper. "Sure will." "You just drive a little bit slower. And come to see me sometimes." "Sometimes." The word had such horrible overtones, as though she was going to be here forever. Days weeks months. Maybe even years. She found herself leaning against the large, creamcolored car. Cindy noticed and asked, quickly, "Are you all right? You aren't sick, are you? Now, if you are, we'll take you right home." Home? Home? She didn't have any home. She straightened up. "I'm fine," and seeing her daughter's long, slender fingers quiver ever so slightly, she managed to say, "this is nice. Look at that nice veranda. And they all seem jolly." Cindy glanced at her quickly, trying to determine if the words were sarcasm or not, then took her arm, 


 as they started into the red brick building, with only one step to the porch (nice for decrepit people). As they walked into the large, cool lobby, she thought of the homes she had had in the past: her father's stately home in England which she had left when she was only twenty to come to America, to marry Gregory, to move to a western frontier town where her home had been little more than a cabin for years — a cabin; a cabin with no facilities, with hard work inside and out. But she had had Gregory and the children and happiness, though she carried the look in her parents' eyes until this moment, and would forever. OW it must have hurt them to have her leave, so young, so inexperienced. She knew now, more than ever, how it was to have a child desert her. Still, she had been fortunate to have them so long, growing up in her own big house, running up and down the stairs, shouting in the yard with its swings, hammock, garden. After their father had died, they had wanted her to move in with them; but she had rented a small apartment near them, and though she hadn't liked it too well, it was home. She had come to be used to it. Most of her things were there, at least she had had those. What would she have here? A few clothes, one or two favorite pictures, some trifles. But what did she need, really? Nevertheless, she didn't like it. She didn't like the fact that her children were doing it to her. How could their feelings for her be so different from her feelings for them? 92 Even as the thought ached within her, she defended them. It wasn't entirely their choice. Hadn't Cindy taken her in last year after her fall? Hadn't she insisted that she have the sunny, east guest room? She had liked it there, even though Cindy's husband was a little childish in his possessiveness. She knew he had influenced the decision to put her here. Just as Kate and the children's needs had influenced Gregory. She had wanted to pay at Cindy's but they wouldn't hear of it. She would be paying most of her own way here. 'That was good. An attendant, neat and pretty, met them. "You're Mrs. Masters, aren't you? We're so happy to have you with us. We hope you'll be happy here." "Oh, Til get along," she answered, "but don't put me in with any real old women." 'The attendant smiled, but Lucinda managed a little scowl in return. Well, what if she were eighty-three? 'That didn't make her a doddering old invalid, did it? "You share the bath with one other woman, and she is delightful. She writes poetry." Lucinda felt her ears literally perk up. Poetry. Hmm. Jingles, probably. She would no doubt bore her to death reading them to her. Soon they were passing an open door as they moved down the hall. A neat, gray-haired woman sat in a wicker rocker, reading. Lucinda strained hard to see the title of the book, but, she couldn't quite make it out. Cindy, noticing, said, "She is reading Robert Burns." The nurse nodded, "She's the one." UCINDA shrugged, pretending indifference, though Burns was one of her favorites, that is, if he was read properly. And, she was glad to say, she knew how. Hadn't her father been one-half Scotch? But now, they were pausing beside the locked door. The attendant was lifting a key from a bunch that hung from her waist, was getting ready to open the door. This was it. The children would be leaving. She would be here alone. She felt sick, and her anger and incomprehension came over her again so strongly that she could hardly bear to have them touch her as they each did as she went across the threshold. The nurse opened the window and a soft breeze moved the cretonne drapes. 'The scent of violets moved in softly on the wind's breath. She thought it was coming from outside, but as she moved in and got her "room eyes," she saw that the fragrance came from a small glass basketful placed on the dresser. She looked down on it. And suddenly she was back in England, preparing to leave. She was seeing another small basket filled with violets. It was one of the last things her mother had given her. Cindy, she was sure, had remembered the story and had sent them here. But, having heard the story, having known the long years of regret, how could she bring anything near it to herself. She lifted her eves and saw on the other side of the dresser, a lovely cyclamen plant, and on a small table, a bouquet of talisman roses. 'They always had been her