[Vol50 | February 1963 | Page 111 | Home | Indoor Gardens for Your Child Helen | B. Morris]
rs from a coal furnace, a saucer, a bowl, salt, water, mercurichrome, household ammonia, and laundry bluing. In the bowl, mix together 4 tablespoons water, 4 tablespoons salt, 1 tablespoon ammonia, 4 tablespoons laundry bluing, and a few drops mercurichrome. Place the pieces of brick or clinkers in the saucer and pour the mixture over them. Place the saucer where it will not be disturbed. As the liquid evaporates, crystals will begin to form, and within a few days you will have a beautiful indoor crystal garden. A Vegetable Garden OU can grow your own indoor plants with only water, a jar, and a sweet potato, horseradish, or a few carrot tops (not the foliage) Put a sweet potato in a jar and add enough water so the potato is about half covered. Keep the jar in a sunny place and keep enough water in it so the potato is always half covered. Leaves will grow on top of the sweet potato and roots will grow into the water. Or you may cut the tops (not the foliage) from 5 or 6 carrots and put them in a bowl. Put about an inch of water in the bowl. Green leaves will grow from the tops of the carrots. A horseradish will sprout, if the top end is cut off and placed in a bowl of water. The long part will also send up green leaves, if it is split and placed flat side down into the water. A Water Garden O make your own indoor water garden, you will need a flat dish, a horseradish, carrot tops, small figurines of frogs, birds, and flowers, colored rocks, and some small, round sticks to be used as logs. Put water into the dish and place a row of rocks along one end to make the bank of the pond. A few drops of blue food coloring may be added to the water. Between the rocks plant some carrot tops. In one corner put the clumpy top end of a horseradish, and across the other two sides, place the long parts of the horseradish as explained above. Arrange the logs in the dish, and figures of frogs, birds, lilies, and insects on the rocks, logs, and in the water. If you wish you may make your own figures from melted wax, clay, or soap, or you may use small toys or figurines which can be bought at the variety store. If you keep the water fresh, the carrot tops and horseradish will sprout, and your water garden will make a bright spot in your child's room while he is waiting for spring.
