[Vol50 | February 1963 | Page 89 | Fiction | The Home — Second Prize Story Christie | Lund Coles]
[The Home — Second Prize Story Christie Lund Coles]

THE HOME favorite, and they knew it. They were trying to soften her up. But she felt brittle inside. 'Teary, perhaps, but brittle. The attendant had left without her so much as knowing it. The three of them were alone in the sunny room. (Gregory Third had pretended to have something to do with the car.) Lucinda removed her small, veiled hat. She managed to say, "These are very pretty," because she knew they were waiting to hear the words. When neither of them spoke, she went on, "Cyclamen, it sounds like the taste of peppermint on the tongue. You know these are my favorites."" Her fingers touched the roses as she spoke. Gull she couldn't bring herself to look at them. And she knew that they couldn't quite look at her. They were talking, saying how nice the room was, asking if she would like to ie down. She refused. Then, they were saying thev had better go as it was dinner time. She closed her mind quickly against the dinner table at her daughter's and her son's, against the memory of the children. She nodded, and thev hesitated, waiting for her to speak, to make some move toward them. Rather slowly, resolutely, she lifted her eyes to look at them. Standing in the late afternoon sunlight, she looked upon them and saw them in the innocence of childhood, good and gentle, weeping over a kitten's dying, a dog lost; bringing her dandelions, vowing they would never love anyone as they loved her. She saw them when they had done something naughty and had been 


 found out, regret in their eyes and a begging to be forgiven and loved again in spite of it. Again she saw herself standing before her mother and father, saying goodbye, saying some things had to be, felt her own pain, again. She saw the pain in their eyes like a sharp knife within her. She supposed they were nght, as she had been. 'Their children came first, their lives. Even so, she couldn't help looking ahead, seeing the time when their children — in spite of the tnps to Europe, the ballet lessons, lovely clothes — might do and say the same thing to them. Life is a pattern. It all comes back. And her only real sorrow now was for them, and their regret. So now, she must lessen it. She said, "You know [I've been moved about quite a lot in my time. I adjust to change just fine. You know that." They still waited, unbelieving, unsure. Until, finally, she touched the check of one and then the other with her foolish, crooked finger. Suddenly, they seemed to have changed verv little. They were still just children, her children. She smiled at them, loving them, forgiving them just as she had done so many times before. CINDY leaned forward, kissed her. Not on the cheek as she had done so often lately, but on the mouth. The kiss was followed by a quick breath and a sound that could have been a sob. Then, Gregory kissed her, and his mouth was soft and tender as his father's had becn a long time ago. Each smiled, touched her. Gregory said huskily, "Now, re- 94 member, if there is anything you need or want, just let us know." Cindy nodded, "Oh, yes. Anything... Anything you need." Lucinda put her parchment thin hand to her mouth to stop its sudden, weak trembling (and she despised weakness), then said softly, "Yes, and if you ever NEED ME you will know where to find me." She turned so that she couldn't see them go through the door, couldn't hear it close. But, it didn't close. Instead, suddenly, she felt her daughter's arms about her and her voice, crying, "Oh, I need you now. I need you now. I couldn't bear to leave you here. You're going home." Gregory was smiling, but there were tears in his eyes, and his strong chin trembled. Lucinda lifted her head, swallowed, then asked lightly, "You mean I won't get to hear my neighbor recite Bobbie Burns?" "Not unless you do it now," Cindy said, seizing the flowers, "and give her these." The girl went to hand her the flowers. But her mother stopped her, saying, "No. You've made these arrangements now. I'll stay here at least while you go to Europe. After that, we'll see." "If you're sure you don't mind, we'll take you home the very first day we're back. We do want you." Gregory cleared his throat. "So do we. Kate will feel better soon." Lucinda put a hand on each of them, saying, "Run along now. ['m going to rock here a few minutes. Then Ill freshen up for dinner." She smiled at them. And they returned the smile. Christie Lund Coles was born m Salina, Utah. A daughter of Christian N. And Ceeelia Peterson Lund. She marred Edgar Elroy Coles, and they have a marned daughter and three grandehildren. Tfer poetry has been widely publshed since she was a student in high school. Ter work has appeared m all the Church magazines, and has been featured in many publications of matroual and foraign circulation. Mrs. Coles has won many State and National poetry and short story contests. She won the first prize in the Pliza R. Snow Pocm Contest in 1943, second prize in 1944, and frst prize in 1956. She won the second prize in the Rehef Society Short Story Contest m 1943. 'The head hbrarian at the University of Kentucky recently requested a poem written by Mrs. Coles in her own handwriting for an exhibition of modern pocts. She has published two volumes of her poetry and is represented in many anthologies. Mrs. Coles is now a resident of Provo, Utah, where she is associated with several writers' organizations and is active in community and Church work.