[Vol50 | February 1963 | Page 104 | General Feature | Notes To the Field: Talking Book Records of Relief Society Lessons Available for the Sightless | ]
Modern homemakers may wish to remember this. Every woman who enters a kitchen carries with her the possibility of adding to the family's store of memorabilia. Still another old adage takes for granted that wives should help their Belle S. Spafford, President @ Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor @ Hulda Parker, Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Mary R. Young Josie B. Bay Mary V. Cameron Alberta H. Christensen Afton W. Hunt Mildred B. Eyring Charlotte A. Larsen Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond husbands "get ahead." 'This they do in part by being thrifty. One of the most important virtues for every homemaker to acquire is the habit of thnft. Careful planning of expenditures is a contribution to the well-being of a family which is most helpful in "getting ahead." The best modern homemaker will combine the old-fashioned virtues associated with her calling with the avilities required for homemaking in her present situation. She needs so many arts and skills to make her home the haven of se- I curity and happiness it should be, that Relief Society must be prepared to help. Helping to meet the problem of modern home management is the assignment of the work meeting. 'Those whose duty it is to plan the activities of the work meeting must do so keeping in mind the complexities of modern housekeeping. This planning must extend beyond a mere listing of articles to be made to a consideration of wavs to be helpful in all of the arts and skills of homemaking. Relief Society can aid its members in the special skills involved m Wealtha S. Mendenhall Pearle M. Olsen Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters LaRue H. Rosell Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson LaPriel S. Bunker Irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Cannon Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva Barlow Zola J. McGhie money management, in the fundamental skills involved in keeping clean and orderly homes, and in the creative skills involved in sewing, cooking, and decorating. Members can be enlightened on the wise use of time and energy. 'They can be given a background of guidance for making plans which will help to assure superior homes. Relief Society can teach its members to consider the needs of all members of their families for the security of a happv home. 'This feeling of security is a tower of strength in this often bewildering world. Happy homes are a combination of the spirit of those who dwell therein and the wise use of management resources. Relief Society can help its members know that women's place in the home is not a relegation to drudgery but a place in which they can make maximum use of their brainpower. Women can aspire to no greater heights than to be eminently successful in the role they were intended to fill, that of wife, mother, and homemaker. —L. W. M.

Notes to the Field Talking Book Records of Relief Society Lessons Available for the Sightless HE Society for the Aid of the Sightless has prepared the Relief Society study courses for October 1962 to May 1963 on talking book records.
