[Vol50 | February 1963 | Page 96 | Special Feature | Bronson Alcott — the Father of "Little Women" | Laurel Ulrich]
95 BRONSON ALCOTT Laurel Ulrich ESS famous than beans, but almost as common, is a Boston pleasure known as "'literary ghost-hunting." So pervaded with history is the city and the country around it that even the most rational soul can be forgiven if, once inside Salem's "House of Seven Gables," he sees the gray spirits of Hawthorne's ancestors hiding in a secret stairway, or if, stepping into the Longfellow house in Cambridge, he half sees "grave Alice" and "laughing Allegra" poised on the stair-landing above him. For the childhood lover of Little Women, the ghosts are nowhere more abundant than in "Orchard House" in Concord. Here are Amy's plaster cast of her foot, Beth's melodion, and the dining room where the girls staged Jo's plays. "Where is Jo's attic?" asked a woman near me on a tour of the house. "Not in this house," said the guide. "We must remember that the girls were grown when they moved here; most of the things Louisa Mav wrote about occurred elsewhere." "Oh, my!" the woman confided. "She has destroyed a dream. I almost thought I would find them here just as in the story." Then, looking at a broadside posted above 96 the Father of "Little Women" an exhibit of Louisa May's manuscripts, she said: "Ha, making money on his daughter's name!' TRANSCENDENTAL CONVERSATION BY BRONSON ALCOTT said the bulletin. Then in larger letters: FATHER OF LOUISA MAY ALCOTT. How few of us, I thought, know Bronson Alcott as anything but the financially unsuccessful and often absent "Father" of Little Women. From my study of American literature I knew him as the Transcendental dreamer, the friend of Emerson and Thoreau, who attempted — and failed — to establish a communal Eden in America. I was prepared to sympathize with an idealist, a thinker who suddenly finds his most difficult child famous as a writer of sentimental novels and children's stories. How would he feel to find that the house he lovingly restored, the house Louisa May avoided living in when she could, was called on the sign outside: "Orchard House, Home of Louisa May Alcott'? Bronson Alcott, Transcendental Curiosity, had been banished to the barn-like "Concord School of Philosophy" out back. If his ghost is to be found, I thought, it won't be here. Perhaps at Fruitlands.... N a_ beautiful autumn _§afternoon, we drove the thirty miles BRONSON ALCOTT — THE FATHER OF aan vist: ed caghsl ee ee "aie: be ates Bie "LITTLE WOMEN" a a ae ar Center of Bronson Alcott's 'Transcendental Community west of Boston to the quiet little village of Harvard, Massachusetts. Grouped on Prospect Hill, west of the village, with a Shaker house, an Indian museum, and an_ early American painting collection, is the restored Fruitlands, the site, in 1843, of Alcott's experiment in communal living. For seven months this home housed the Alcott family; Charles Lane, an English idealist-stockbroker, who financed the experiment; and a collection of 'Transcendentalists and "seekers," who sought to simplify material life, to bring about spiritual renewal through vegetarianism, meditation, and agriculture. There is little to remind one, walking across the broad lawn to the house, that he is not about to visit a tranquil, but occupied eighteenthcentury farmhouse. A low porch along one wing of the red house is framed with vines and_ potted geraniums. An old hoe and some crude wooden implements strange to us stand neatly against the wall. On one side of the house are the barn and a grape arbor, delightfully shadowy and cool and secret. On the other, speckled red and yellow apples float in the well. A blanket of rough homespun is clipped to the line with the long, handcarved 


 clothespegs of a hundred years ago. Across the fence are clumps of hay, drying on weathered, wooden poles. Inside, are the faded tablecloths, maple chests, the broad fireplaces of the eighteenth century. 'There is much here, too, of Bronson Alcott— volumes of books in faded, velvety colors, a bust of Socrates, letters from Emerson and from George Ripley of Brook Farm, copies of the Transcendental periodical Dial, some of Thoreau's Journals. Framed on walls throughout the first floor are brief descriptions of the 'Transcendental movement and its influence from Millerism, phrenology, temperance, hydropathy, Grahamism. We are thus officially reminded that Fruitlands was the home of the Alcotts as social experimenters. But something in the spirit of the house itself defies the asceticism of that experiment. E climb the stairs and find Louisa! Here is her room. There on the bench are her spectacles. And there, up the narrow steps, Jo's attic, with the expected book and an apple. An_ apple! That's it. That's what's disturbing the 'Transcendental ghost. Despite all the Bronson Alcott mementos, it is the huge wooden bowl of ripe apples that dominates the central room downstairs, that gives it its warm, earthy smell. 'True, apples were a Staple of the Fruitlands diet, but one imagines them in their barrel hidden in the kitchen, nothing like this ripe abundance, this tantalizingly worldly perfume. And in the library it is a bowl of purple plums giving it a heavy, musky perfume. Up the staircase, it is the tang of dried herbs and mint; in the kitch- 98 en, the teasing scent of cloves in an antique grinder. Spices at Fruitlands! On the wooden table in the kitchen is a heavy, cornmeal cake, a cake worthy of Bronson Alcott, who baked his coarse bread in animal Shapes so the children could enjoy it. Here is fitting food for self-denial. But there is a basket near the window — eggs, a forbidden food at Alcott's Fruitlands. What are we to make of Fruitlands, a house of contradictions — a Transcendental museum and a delightfully scented, tastefully restored farmhouse? Perhaps our clue is in the fate of the 1843 experiment. It ended when Alcott, torn by Lane's desire to "liberate" him from the worldly vice of family, broke with his English companion. Alcott remained to his death a vegetarian who refused milk and eggs as well as meat, an idealist, a spiritual seeker, but he continued to affirm his ideal of family life. In one sense, then, Fruitlands is a_ veracious memorial to Bronson Alcott. It is the home of a thinker, but it is most convincing as the home of a happy, vigorous family. 'To the happiness and the vigor of his family, Alcott never ceased to contribute. We might remember that when _ his "Conversations" with — children (whom he considered closer to the Spirit than adults) caused his failure as a teacher in Boston, he continued to teach his own children. Though never succeeding in writing successfully for publication, he continued to fill volumes of private journals — and gave his children the 'Journal habit." Though he didn't enforce his eating habits on his fam- BRONSON ALCOTT — THE FATHER OF "LITTLE WOMEN" ily, he was constantly there as an example of self-denial. They saw him more than once give a poor neighbor his portion of a sparse supper. Though he could never provide comforts, and sometimes scarcelv necessities, he gave his children a home open to Emerson — and to a though Bronson Alcott failed in many things, "he did not fail as a Father." The Fruitlands experiment was to be a new social order known as the Con-Sociate Family. When it failed, Alcott left the farm, gravely disappointed. But perhaps his ghost has returned. We can see him there near the fireplace. Charles Lane is gone. But there are Marmee and the girls. And Jo, moody by the fire, is recording it all. Runaway slave. On his lecture tours there was seldom money to send home, but there were the constant, gentle, loving notes.