[Vol50 | February 1963 | Page 120 | Home | Glamorize Your Party Menus With Tarts Ruby | K. Smith]
Glamorize Your Party Menus With Tarts
Ruby K. Smith

Basic Chiffon Tarts
1 envelope unflavored gelatin
1/4 c. cold water
1/2 c. boiling water
1/2 c. sugar
1/4 tsp. salt
1/3 c. lemon juice
1 tsp. grated lemon rind
3 egg whites
1/4 c. sugar
6 baked tart shells

Soften gelatin in cold water. Add boiling water and stir until dissolved. Add 1/2 c. sugar, salt, lemon juice, and rind. Chill until slightly thickened. Beat until light and fluffy. Beat egg whites until foamy, gradually add 1/4 c. sugar, and beat until stiff. Fold into gelatin mixture. Pile into tart shells. Chill until firm.

Variations
Vanilla — Flavor with 1 tsp. vanilla
Coconut — Add 1 c. coconut
Pineapple — Add 1 c. shredded pineapple (drained)
Chocolate — Add 2 squares chocolate (melted)
Lemon — Substitute 1 1/2 c. water for milk, and flavor with juice and grated rind of one lemon.

Chocolate Chiffon Tarts
Substitute 2 squares of chocolate and 1/2 c. boiling water for the lemon juice and rind in the basic recipe. Flavor with vanilla.

Peach Perfection Tarts
1 tbsp. sugar
1 1/2 tbsp. cornstarch
1 1/4 c. syrup from canned peaches
1 tbsp. lemon juice
2 tsp. butter
few grains of salt

1/4 tsp. almond extract
2 1/2 c. sliced peaches, drained
6 baked tart shells
whipped cream, as desired
sugar to taste

Mix sugar and cornstarch, add peach syrup, and cook over low heat, stirring constantly. Remove from heat and add butter, lemon juice, salt, almond extract, and peaches. Chill thoroughly. Fill tart shells and garnish with sweetened whipped cream.

Banana Cream Tarts
1/3 c. flour
1/4 tsp. salt
2/3 c. sugar
2 c. milk

2 eggs
3 bananas
1 tbsp. lemon juice
1 c. apricot jam

Mix flour, salt, and sugar together in top of double boiler. Stir in milk to make a smooth mixture and cook over direct heat, stirring constantly, until bubbly.
Beat eggs. Add the hot sauce very, very slowly, beating vigorously. Pour back into double boiler and cook over hot water until thick and smooth. Continue stirring. Chill.
Mash one banana with fork and mix into custard along with lemon juice. Spoon filling into baked tart shells, and cover tops with thin slices of the remaining two bananas.
Work apricot jam through a sieve or blender until smooth. Heat over low heat until almost liquid. Spoon a thin layer of the glaze over bananas. Chill before serving.

Raisin Filling
2 c. seedless raisins
1 c. water
1/2 c. brown sugar
3 level tbsp. cornstarch

1/2 c. water (for dissolving cornstarch)
2 tbsp. lemon juice
1/2 c. chopped walnuts

Simmer raisins in 1 c. water for about ten minutes, then add thickening made of cornstarch and 1/2 c. water. Cook until mixture is thickened, stirring constantly. Remove from stove. Cool slightly and add lemon juice and walnuts. Spoon into baked tart shells. The top of the tarts may be garnished with a small amount of whipped cream slightly sweetened and flavored with lemon extract to suit taste.
The consistency of the raisin mixture may be adjusted to suit preference by adding to or subtracting from the amount of cornstarch used. The recipe will fill approximately the number of tarts which may be made from the basic recipe.