[Vol51 | February 1964 | Page 90 | Special Feature | In Memoriam — President Levi | Edgar Young]

IN MEMORIAM

President
Levi Edgar Young

of the First Council of Seventy
February 2, 1874 — December 13, 1963

[PHOTOGRAPH]

PRESIDENT Levi Edgar Young, senior President of the First Council of Seventy, died December 13, 1963. Well loved and much respected, President Young had been a member of the Council since 1910, carrying forward a legacy of service received from his faithful forebears. Both his father, Seymour B. Young, a noted physician, and his grandfather, Joseph Young, a brother of President Brigham Young, served as senior presidents of the First Council of Seventy.

Throughout his life President Young was devoted to scholarship and education. He was graduated from the University of Utah in 1895, and immediately began a teaching career that continued, alternately with mission calls, for most of his life. He served as professor of English at the Latter-day Saints University in Salt Lake City, and later, while attending Harvard University, he became deeply interested in history and was a noted scholar and authority, particularly in the field of western history. He taught history at the University of Utah for forty years. He was president of the Utah State Historical Society for many years, and in recognition of his contributions to research, and writing and teaching of history, he was given the signal honor of membership in the Royal Society of Edinburgh, a distinction usually reserved for natural scientists.

He labored as a missionary in Germany, and in 1902 was named President of the Swiss Mission, becoming one of the youngest mission presidents to serve in the Church. From 1922 to 1934 he was President of the Temple Square Mission and for three years he presided over the New England Mission.

The General Board and members of Relief Society in all the stakes and missions of the Church extend sympathy and sisterly love to President Young's family — his wife Valeria Brinton Young, and his three daughters: Harriet Y. Kline, Jane Y. Rawson, and Eleanor Y. Van Orden, and to the grandchildren and other relatives and friends. President Young has left a resplendent heritage of faith and good works to his family and to the Church.

90

Lenore C. Gundersen
Appointed
to General Board

Fawn H. Sharp
Member, General Board
of Relief Society

LENORE C. Gundersen was appointed a member of the General Board of Relief Society, December 5, 1963. She exemplifies, in her everyday living, the sterling qualities of her pioneer ancestors — thrift, love, patience, dependability, courage, and a dedication to family and Church.

Sister Gundersen is the eighth child of Virginia Burton Cutler and Ralph Cutler. Lenore's father and mother were active Church members, maintaining a home in which the Priesthood was always honored. Lenore states that her mother, now eighty-five years of age, has always been an inspiration to her.

Lenore attended business college and served as secretary to Sister Clarissa A. Beesley of the Y.W.M.I.A. for three and one-half years. She married Joseph A. Gundersen, November 1, 1934, in the Salt Lake Temple. They have five children, three girls and two boys, and six grandchildren. They are as follows: Joan (Mrs. Neil B. Van Leeuwen), theology teacher in the Relief Society and counselor in the district presidency of the Y.W.M.I.A. in Quantico, Virginia; Virginia, (Mrs. Robert I. Halgrim), president of the Y.W.M.I.A. in Carlo, Montana, and a Seminary teacher; Alton Gundersen, Salt Lake City, active in the Priesthood; Thomas C. Gundersen, a student, who filled a mission while with his parents in Norway; Retta Jean Gundersen, a student in high school.

Lenore has had the following Church assignments, among others: teacher in Sunday School; ward and stake president of Y.W.M.I.A.; ward Relief Society president, and counselor and president in the Valley View Stake Relief Society.

She accompanied her husband to Norway when President Gundersen was called to preside over the Norwegian Mission. They have recently returned from this assignment. While in the mission she served as president of the mission Relief Societies.

Lenore Gundersen not only brings to the General Board of the Relief Society her own humble, sweet spirit, charming personality, and dedication, but also great qualities of leadership that will benefit all of the sisters in the Church.

[PHOTOGRAPH]

91

**
