[Vol51 | February 1964 | Page 142 | Lesson | Visiting Teacher MessagCeh r i—s ti n"eA n dH . YReo b iSnhsaloln Bear Record of Me" | ]

VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE

Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants

Message 56 — "And Ye Shall Bear Record of Me, Even Jesus Christ, That I Am the Son of the Living God" (D & C 68:6).

Christine H. Robinson

For First Meeting, May 1964

Objective: To emphasize the fact that a testimony of Jesus Christ, as the Son of the living God, is the most important need in the world today.

ON one occasion when Jesus was visiting a city known as Caesarea Philippi, in the north, he asked his disciples who men said that he was. His disciples answered that some believed he was John the Baptist, some Elias, and others Jeremias or one of the other ancient prophets. Then Jesus inquired of his disciples who they thought he was. Simon Peter answered and said, "Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God" (Matt. 16:16).

During his ministry upon this earth, the Savior knew that if his teachings were to endure and to be effective in the lives of his disciples they must know, beyond the shadow of a doubt, that he was the Christ, the long-promised Messiah, the Son of the living God. If this testimony was important when the Lord was living and teaching upon the earth, it is just as important in our lives today. Not being blessed with the personal presence of our Lord to counsel and guide us, we must live by faith, knowing that his spirit can be with us, if we seek it, and knowing that his teachings are not only the most effective but the only genuine guide we have in this modern, complicated life.

When the impressive buildings which now constitute Radio Center were built in the heart of Manhattan, New York, a wise architect inscribed on the walls of the main building the following: "Man's ultimate destiny depends not on whether he can learn new lessons or make new discoveries, or new conquests, but upon his acceptance of the lessons taught him close upon 2,000 years ago."

Today we are experiencing earth-shaking developments and accomplishments in the sciences. We have created remarkable electronic devices which serve and entertain us. We are making marvelous progress in exploring the secrets of space and are even talking about visiting the moon. Yet, none of these accomplishments or conquests will help us solve our basic human problems, nor will they help us in any way to gain eternal salvation, unless we can bear record to the conviction that Jesus is the Christ,

142

LESSON DEPARTMENT

that he lived, died, and was resurrected for our salvation and exaltation. Only through this testimony and through a willingness to follow his teachings can we secure peace of mind, true happiness, peace upon this earth, and joy in the world to come.

Since the restoration of the gospel in these latter days our Church leaders have borne countless personal testimonies to Christ's reality as the Son of God and have counseled us to strengthen and bear record of our own testimonies. As one example of these powerful testimonies from our Church leaders, President McKay bears this record, "With my whole soul I accept Jesus Christ as the Savior and Redeemer of mankind. Accepting him as my Redeemer, Savior, Lord, it is but logical that I accept his gospel as the plan of salvation, as the one perfect way to happiness and peace" (The Instructor, 99:161, June 1957).

As members of his restored Church we have a solemn obligation to build our individual testimonies and to bear record to ourselves and to others that Jesus lives, that he is the son of the living God. How can we build this testimony?

The best way to build and strengthen our testimonies is to read of him in the scriptures, learn his commandments, live them. We have been told repeatedly that if we do the things which the Lord tells us, we will know for a certainty that he is our Savior. Jesus said, "If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself" (John 7:17).

We can also strengthen our testimonies both by listening to the testimonies of others and by bearing record ourselves. We should bear this record whenever it is appropriate, to our families, to our friends, and in testimony meetings. Moreover, when we partake of the sacrament worthily, and with singleness of heart, we bear solemn record to the Lord, to ourselves, and to those assembled that we "are willing to take upon [us] the name of thy Son, and always remember him, and keep his commandments. . . ." When we partake of the sacrament we should concentrate on thoughts of the Savior and on the blessings our testimony of him brings us.

Through strengthening our testimony and bearing record of it we can say with the ancient prophet Job, "I know that my redeemer liveth" (Job 19:25). As expressed in the beautiful hymn, what joy and comfort this conviction brings. President Grant once said, "There is no joy in the world that equals the joy of knowing in your heart that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ" (Moments With the Prophets, page 197).

We are told in the Doctrine and Covenants if our testimonies and our lives bear record of our Savior Jesus Christ we have this promise of the Lord, "do not fear, for I the Lord am with you, and will stand by you" (D & C 68:6).

Surely no greater blessing can come to anyone.

143
