[Vol51 | February 1964 | Page 122 | Fiction | Kiss of the Wind — Chapter 8 (Conclusion) Rosa | Lee Lloyd]

KISS
of the
WIND

Rosa Lee Lloyd

CHAPTER 8 (Conclusion)

LUANA was clearing the breakfast table, after the children had gone to school, when Millie Togo came in through the bamboo curtains. Her smile was a white flash in her golden brown face.

She had brought her baby wrapped in the white embroidered silk robe that Emma Lu had purchased in San Francisco.

"Oh, let me hold him!" Margaret exclaimed, reaching for him. "Precious!" she murmured when Millie placed him in her arms. "Too precious for words!"

Millie looked at Tutu who was busy at her work table making a fresh supply of poi.

"Tutu," she said, in her silken voice, "it's my day to read to the blind . . . and here I am without a baby sitter. Could you . . . ?"

Tutu shook her head. "I am sorry, Millie. Today, Luana takes me to the doctor. I'd be glad to do it any other time."

"Oh, Millie — let me!" Margaret called out in her gay voice. "Emma Lu will be here, too. We'll take good care of him."

"I'd be so grateful," Millie said. "It's the first time I've been anywhere since he was born. Mike said I could stop at the shops and buy something new." Her eyes were black stars. "I'll bring his formula."

"Run along," Luana laughed. "Have a happy day. Your baby is in good hands, Millie."

IT was after three o'clock before Luana and Tutu started for Dr. Hartford's office in the second-

122

KISS OF THE WIND

hand convertible. They had nicknamed the car "Old Jig-Saw," because Phil said it was a puzzle which way it was going to move — forward, or up and down.

"Time just slipped by," Luana told Tutu as they jogged along the highway. "But it was such fun! When there is a baby in the house, he is the center of everything."

Tutu laughed softly. "The little king had us all bowing to him," she said, "even Margaret. She never let go of him."

Luana drew a long tremulous breath.

"Speaking of Margaret," she said, "she has chosen the place for her painting." Her voice faltered. ". . . My lagoon, Tutu."

Silence hung between them. Luana kept her eyes on the highway.

"I know," Tutu said at last. "She showed me her painting this morning. She must have worked all night and many nights before."

"I saw her," Luana said in a fierce, tight little voice. "My lagoon! Tutu — I can't bear it!"

Tutu's arm was tender and warm around her shoulders.

"She has an artist's eye, too," she said gently. "It was inevitable that she would paint the lagoon once she had seen it. But take heart, my Luana," she added consolingly. "Although her painting has the touch of the professional, more perfection of line and perspective than yours has, still yours has a freshness and feeling that some professionals have forgotten — qualities that

win prizes. If I were a judge, I would give yours the prize, Luana. Margaret's painting has a yearning quality — a searching — but yours has fulfillment, like a woman who has known every rich gift of life."

"Thank you, Tutu," Luana murmured. "I need to win that money so very much. And I think a painting of that lagoon will win."

"Yes," Tutu conceded, in her thoughtful way. "A painting of that lagoon has a good chance to win."

DR. HARTFORD was a large, hearty man who radiated hope and courage to all his patients. After examining Tutu, he beamed down at her.

"So you went on a hill slide Saturday," he said. "Well, it gave your heart a healthy bounce. Now, remember, I'm not recommending this for my heart patients, but for you it was very good. You're better than you have been for sometime. What could have done it besides that slide?"

Tutu's blue eyes twinkled into his. "I have much to live for, Dr. Hartford. My work is not yet finished here."

"You are a real trooper!" he said, patting her shoulder. "Hawaii has won her statehood through such characters as you and your family. I remember your husband, John Benjamin Harrington. A man of spirit and courage. He was devoted to Hawaii."

"Yes," she said. "I wish he

123

FEBRUARY 1964

could have lived until Statehood was achieved. He worked for that."

Dr. Hartford looked at Luana who was standing by them. His eyes narrowed, quizzically.

"I wish I could say you look as perky as your Tutu. But you seem a bit languid to me. I want to check you over right now."

ON the way home in the late afternoon, Tutu leaned against Luana's shoulder and slept as peacefully as a child. Luana did not awaken her until they turned into the plantation lane. She stopped the car a block from the house and parked it beneath a leafy banyan tree. The sun was coral and gold through its branches.

"Tutu," she said softly, as Tutu opened her eyes and sat up. "I have something to tell you — something almost too wonderful to talk about."

"I know, my darling," Tutu's voice was a hushed lullaby. "I saw the light in your eyes when you came from Dr. Hartford's private office. I saw the glory in your smile as though the wind had kissed you."

"A baby . . ." Luana whispered, "another baby to love and care for. What a heavenly blessing to have a baby when you are forty-three!"

"God's blessing," Tutu answered. "Now when Emma Lu is married and goes to the Mainland to make her home, and Philip leaves for New Zealand, we will have our new baby to plan for. I must live a long time now, Luana, to help you and Ben."

Luana's breath was a sigh of happiness.

"My darling Ben," she said, "what another baby will mean to him, joy beyond words!"

"The sun reddens," Tutu reminded her, "almost dinnertime."

Dreamily Luana started the car, and they rode home in quiet wonderment.

"I will change my dress and help you," Tutu said, as they hurried down the hallway toward their bedrooms.

Hearing voices in Emma Lu's room, they hesitated near the half-open doorway. Someone was sobbing. Margaret's voice came brokenly.

"Oh, Emma Lu, having Millie's baby today brought it all back — all the yearning for a baby of my own. I would give anything — anything — for a baby . . ."

Luana leaned against the door frame. She felt weak and sick all over. Tutu did not move or speak.

"I paint so much and so desperately," Margaret went on. "I give all my creative urge to my art, because I have nothing else. I know that is the reason our Heavenly Father has helped me to be successful. Oh, I realize that creating art or music or beautiful writing is God's gift to us, too, but motherhood is the greatest gift. Mothers are co-creators with God. Oh, Emma Lu, no one knows how I long for a baby of my own."

Luana looked at Tutu. Their eyes met and lingered with tears

124

KISS OF THE WIND

of compassion. Then each went quietly to her own room and closed the door. Margaret must never know that they had heard her bare her heart to Emma Lu.

DINNER at the Harrington's was always a gay affair. Luana, with a little pang, could see that Margaret was trying to be extra gay. Her voice was too high, her smile too tremulous.

Emma Lu, Pixie, and Philip had gone to a Mutual party at the meetinghouse, but the rest of them lingered at the dinner table with an extra helping of Tutu's date tarts.

"I think I'll learn the hula while I'm in Hawaii," Margaret said. "That will surprise Tom when he comes for me."

"Try to hula with bamboo sticks," Benjy said. "You can beat the rhythm that way."

"Or a feather gourd," Bo told her. "They rattle. We'll show you, Aunt Margaret."

"You darlings!" She smiled at them. "Taking time out to teach your aunt. But everyone on the Mainland will expect me to talk about the fun in Hawaii."

Ben leaned back in his chair, folding his arms across his chest. "Margaret," he said, "forgive me if I say this again. Tell the folks on the Mainland that we don't play all the time in Hawaii. I want to show you the fields of sugar cane and the refineries that employ thousands of workers. There are towns built by the big corporations who own the pine and sugar industries. You must see the coastal villages and the fishing canneries. We have huge farms of wheat and grain and cattle ranches that equal anything in Texas."

"We have cowboys," Benjy told her. "They're like real cowboys anywhere, only they wear leis of feathers around their hats. Bo and I saw them, didn't we, Daddy?"

"Yes, son," Ben answered. "We must take Aunt Margaret to the out-of-the-way places where men like old Hamana still make canoes from koa wood."

"And he carves ornaments, too," Bo chimed in.

"He does indeed," Ben nodded. "Especially when he finds a piece of sandalwood, which is mighty scarce these days."

BEN'S eyes smiled into hers. "What I'm trying to say is this, Margaret. The real people of Hawaii, like the real people anywhere in the world, are busy, ambitious people, with a purpose in life. It is generally the visitor who plays all the time. The rest of us are too busy earning a living and helping our fellow men. The hula, the ukulele, and surf-riding are all a part of our recreation, but they are not everything, as some of the Mainlanders think they are."

"Ben is right," Tutu said, looking at Margaret. "There is much work to do in Hawaii. I've been wondering if you would like to go with me tomorrow to the island of Molokai?"

Margaret wet her lips. Then she lifted her head, smiling at

125

FEBRUARY 1964

Tutu. "Well — yes. Yes, I would, Tutu."

"There is a little boy there I want you to see," Tutu went on, casually. "You are such a fine artist, I am sure you will appreciate him. He is a three-year-old Haole boy, and he has the most beautifully formed face I have ever seen. The bone structure is perfect. His eyes have an expression no one can forget. A portrait of him could be a masterpiece, Margaret."

"Oh, I'd love to see him," Margaret said. "I've been searching for a subject for a portrait."

"He is an orphan," Tutu explained. "Some of his relatives have taken care of him since his parents were killed, fishing on the shark coast."

"His name is Joa," Benjy said. "Tutu says he can sing already."

Luana pretended to eat her tart. She knew Tutu was trying to help Margaret, by interesting her in little Joa. Luana's heart quickened. Some way, somehow, she, too, must help Margaret.

After family prayers together, Luana went from one room to another, as she always did, to say goodnight to each of her children.

Pixie was seated at her cretonne-skirted dressing table brushing her short, clipped hair.

"It's growing, Mama, look — I like it cut off this way — it's almost curly."

"It is!" Luana agreed. "You're so cute with it short."

Pixie's face sobered. "Mama — have you noticed — my teeth are straighter? I don't need braces — really. Remember what Dr. Williamson said when you first took me to him — that once in a blue moon teeth like mine adjust themselves? Maybe I've found the blue moon — anyway I'm not afraid to smile anymore."

Luana looked at her quizzically. Her teeth were straighter — almost pretty when she smiled.

"All the girls like my hair," Pixie went on. "I'm glad now that Daddy made me cut it off, and had it fixed my natural color."

"I'm glad, too," Luana murmured, kissing her fresh young cheek. "Sweet dreams, dear."

Benjy and Bo, in their twin beds, were whispering together as she entered their room.

"Hello!" Benjy said, lifting his face for her kiss. "Bo says that now we're thirteen we should earn money after school, so we can help Phil on his mission. We could work in the pine cannery."

Luana sat down beside Bo. She always tried to share her attention equally between them, but Benjy was more openly demonstrative than Bo. Kisses to Benjy were as natural as breathing, but they were very special to Bo.

"Phil would appreciate that," she said. "Then, when it's your turn for a mission, he can help you. But your Daddy must be the one to decide what jobs would be best. Remember you have your daily work to do for him here, on the plantation."

"Sure," Bo agreed. "Our Daddy knows about everything."

Luana nodded. "He knows

126

KISS OF THE WIND

everything that is best for all of us. He is very wise and very good. Now shall we go to sleep?"

Benjy's eyes were closed. He was already asleep, but Bo was still awake. He touched her cheek. Luana held her breath, waiting.

"Mama . . ." his voice was so low she bent her head to hear him. "I don't want to worry you — I want you to love me — the way . . ."

"I do love you, Bo!" Luana held him in her arms. "You are heart of my heart — my son."

He sighed gently against her breast. She did not let him go until he fell asleep.

Walking thoughtfully to Emma Lu's room, she wondered if Bo had ever felt slighted. She must be careful to share her love equally.

EMMA LU was standing by the window gazing dreamily at the big white moon.

"Come in, Mama," she said, without turning her head. "I've been thinking. I don't need a big fancy wedding reception. I want a quiet affair here in our own garden. Phil needs the money for his mission. Please — Mama."

Tears stung Luana's eyes. She did not want Emma Lu to see her cry. She always kept her tears inside where no one could see them, the way Bo did.

"We'll think about it," she answered. "A garden reception could be very pretty. We'll talk about it in the morning. Goodnight, now."

Back in the hallway, she leaned against the wall and let the tears break through. Her heart was brimming over. Now that their children were growing up, they were reflecting the love that had always governed their home. They were willing to sacrifice for her and Ben and for each other. Sacrifice was the test of real love.

Luana bit her lip. How much did she love Tom, her only brother, and Margaret, his wife? How much was she willing to prove her love? Was she as noble as she had taught her children to be?

The question hung in the air for a long, breathless moment. Then she lifted her head and walked resolutely to Tutu's bedroom. The blinds were drawn. The room was dark. Tutu slept soundly. Luana went quietly to the closet for her painting and carried it to her own room.

Ben was in his big, comfortable chair reading the evening paper. Luana unwrapped the painting and placed it upright on a chair before him, turning the light so it flooded over its rich coloring.

"So that was the reason!" he said. His eyes were luminous. "I wondered when you would show it to me."

"You knew?" she asked incredulously.

HE pulled her gently beside him. "You were out there on the beach of our lagoon night after night. I knew you weren't fishing or swimming or getting moonstruck. Not my Luana. It had to be something worthwhile. I guessed it was this. No doubt

127

FEBRUARY 1964

you will send it to the McDougal Contest."

With a little sigh, Luana pressed her head against his shoulder. She told him about Margaret and her painting, and how she and Tutu had heard her heartbreaking talk with Emma Lu. Then she told him how the children were willing to sacrifice for each other, and she felt that she should sacrifice for Margaret because she truly loved her.

"I want to help her, darling. So I have decided not to send my painting to the contest. Now, I can really say that I hope she wins it."

Ben's hands were firm on her shoulders as he turned her so that his wise, unflinching eyes looked steadily into hers.

"You have your values crossed, my darling," he said. "This sounds like a very noble sacrifice on your part, but I do not approve of it. No one should sacrifice his ability to create. We believe in using and making the best of our God-given talents. You should not sacrifice it for Margaret or anyone else. I know you love your brother and his wife, and that you are deeply compassionate because they have no children. I am, too. But there is always the danger that a sacrifice of the kind you suggest will not only destroy your own efforts to be successful, but it might weaken the very person you are trying to help. You have done a magnificent job — I say you should enter it in the contest."

His eyes crinkled. "It might be that neither of you will win. Who knows? The important thing is to realize that neither your real happiness nor Margaret's depends on that contest. There are better ways for you to help Margaret. If you keep your painting out of the contest, you might go through life thinking you could have won. You might get a complex about it. Margaret has won many contests. That isn't what she really needs. Tutu has found the right way to make her help herself. A child to care for and sacrifice for is what she and Tom really need. Let's hope they take the little boy."

Luana met her husband's eyes in a long, lingering look of love and understanding. Ben was positive and strong, but full of gentleness.

"You are right," she said. "I will mail my painting tomorrow."

"You should," he said. "That painting is a miracle."

Luana was smiling as her lips touched his cheek.

"A miracle," she whispered. "I have a greater miracle to tell you about. The greatest miracle in the world. Another baby — for us."

She felt him breathe deeply, and his hand smoothed her dark hair.

"My wife," he said, tenderly, "my Luana. Bless you, my darling. I feel humble and yet so proud. I could touch the stars."

"I know," she murmured. "We have always touched the stars — together."

128
