[Vol51 | February 1964 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Lesson | Title: 152 Social Science — Summary of Organization and Structure of the Church Ariel S. Ballif]
SOCIAL  SCIENCE    •     Divine  Law  and  Church  Government 
Church  Government:  Its  Organization  and  Structure 
Lesson  14  —  Summary  of  Organization  and  Structure  of  the  Church 
Elder  Ariel  S.  Ballif 
For  Fourth  Meeting,  May  1964 
Objective:  To  emphasize  the  evidence  of  divine  influence  in  the  structure  and  operation 
of  Church  government. 
The  Church  is  the  body  of  believers, 
organized  [by  the  Priesthood]  according  to 
divine  law.  It  is  invested  with  the  neces- 
sary rights,  powers,  and  authority  to  carry 
forward  on  earth  the  purposes  of  the 
Almighty  Father  as  contained  in  his  plan 
of  salvation  for  his  children  on  earth 
(WiDTSOE,  John  A.:  Program  of  the 
Church,  1941  edition,  page  22). 
Zion,  "The  pure  in  heart,"  the  kingdom 
of  God  here  upon  the  earth,  is  The 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  and  no  other,  and  with  its  divinely 
restored  power  of  the  priesthood  of  the 
Living  God,  with  its  ordinances,  organiza- 
tions, agencies,  and  facilities,  and  with  its 
message  of  pure,  eternal  gospel  truth,  it 
reaches  out  the  hand  of  fellowship  to  the 
whole  human  family,  to  lead  our  Father's 
children  into  transcendent  joy,  eternal 
progress,  and  the  presence  of  our  Lord 
(Richards,  Stephen  L:  Where  Is  Wis- 
dom? page  406) . 
The  Priesthood  is  a  dynamic  cre- 
ative power  and  a  directing  force 
upon  the  earth.  Adam  held  the 
Holy  Priesthood  after  the  order  of 
the  Son  of  God.  In  the  various  dis- 
pensations of  time,  God  has  acti- 
vated his  Priesthood,  instituted  his 
government,  and  offered  his  services 
to  the  human  family. 
Having  in  mind  the  welfare  of 
his   children   and  being   constantly 
aware  of  the  purpose  of  creation, 
God  has  revealed  a  system  of  govern- 
ment for  his  Church  that  would 
make  possible  peace  on  earth  and 
good  will  among  men. 
The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  is  the  kingdom  of 
God  upon  the  earth  today.  In  it 
there  is  a  fulness  of  the  gospel  be- 
ing administered  by  his  authorized 
agents.  This  means  that'  all  the  wis- 
dom, counsel,  and  direction  (divine 
law),  that  God  has  ever  revealed  to 
man  to  assist  him  in  his  quest  for 
joy,  happiness,  and  exaltation  have 
been  restored. 
The  Restoration  of  the  Priesthood 
The  6th  of  April,  1830,  was  both 
a  climax  and  a  beginning  in  The 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints.  The  major  event  in  its 
history  took  place  in  a  grove  in  early 
spring  of  1820.  In  this  quiet,  peace- 
ful place  the  testimony  of  the 
ancient  scriptures  was  verified  as  the 
boy  Joseph  Smith  beheld  the  Father 
and  the  Son. 
Their  declaration  to  him,  that  the 
Church  of  God  was  not  upon  the 
earth,  began  a  chain  of  events  that 
152

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
climaxed  in  the  organization  of  the 
Church. 
These  events  included  instruction 
and  training  by  heavenly  messen- 
gers, the  key  events  happening  in 
May  and  June  of  1829,  when  the 
power  and  authority  to  act  officially 
for  God  upon  the  earth  were  con- 
ferred upon  Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver 
Cowdery  by  John  the  Baptist  and 
apostles  Peter,  James,  and  John,  the 
men  Christ  had  chosen  in  the 
meridian  of  time  to  head  his  Church 
following  the  crucifixion.  Shortly 
after  the  restoration  of  the  Priest- 
hood, the  translation  of  The  Book 
of  Mormon  was  completed.  It  be- 
came a  new  witness  for  God  testify- 
ing of  the  mission  of  Jesus  Christ. 
With  the  Holy  Priesthood  as  his 
authority  to  act  and  the  witness  to 
the  world  of  the  fulness  of  the  gos- 
pel contained  in  The  Book  of  Mor- 
mon, the  Prophet  Joseph  brought 
the  first  phase  of  his  work  to  a  focal 
point  with  the  orgnization  of  the 
Church. 
Church  Government  Is  the 
Priesthood  in  Action 
It  is  most  significant  to  note  how 
little  attention  was  given  to  the 
structure  of  Church  government  un- 
til the  Priesthood  was  conferred 
upon  Joseph  and  Oliver. 
We  believe  that  a  man  must  be  called 
of  God,  by  prophecy,  and  by  the  laying 
on  of  hands,  by  those  who  are  in  authority 
to  preach  the  Gospel  and  administer  in 
the  ordinances  thereof  (Fifth  Article  of 
;    Faith). 
After  the  Priesthood  was  given  to 
\  them,  Joseph  and  Oliver  explained 
'  the  principles  of  the  gospel,  baptized 
I  those  who  received  a  testimony,  and 
then  set  up  the  official  organization 
and  government  of  the  Church  (see 
Section  20  of  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants)  patterned  after  the 
structure  of  the  Church  Jesus  had 
established  while  he  was  upon  the 
earth. 
The  Enlightenment  of 
the  Holy  Ghost 
The  Prophet  Joseph  informs  us 
that  immediately  following  their 
baptism,  the  Holy  Ghost  fell  upon 
them  and  they  prophesied  of  im- 
portant things  to  come.  Joseph 
says: 
Our  minds  being  now  enlightened,  we 
began  to  have  the  scriptures  laid  open  to 
our  understandings,  and  the  true  meaning 
and  intention  of  their  more  mysterious 
passages  revealed  unto  us  in  a  manner 
which  we  never  could  attain  to  previously, 
nor  ever  before  had  thought  of  .  .  .  (Pearl 
of  Great  Price,  Joseph  Smith  2:74). 
After  receiving  the  authority  of 
the  Priesthood  and  the  enlighten- 
ment of  mind  from  the  Holy  Ghost, 
the  Church  was  organized.  Through 
the  process  of  inquiry  and  revela- 
tion, the  Prophet  received  the  detail 
of  the  structure  and  government  of 
the  Church,  not  all  at  once,  but  step 
by  step  until  an  organization  un- 
equaled  by  the  efforts  of  man,  has 
been  perfected. 
The  Sacredness  of 
Priesthood  Callings 
In  our  course  of  study  we  are  con- 
cerned with  the  fact  that  the  Priest- 
hood was  restored  and  is  the  basis 
upon  which  Church  government  and 
organization  are  built.  The  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
was  not  founded  upon  protests 
against  the  alleged  mistakes  of  any 
existing  Churches.  It  was  founded 
153

BEAUTIFUL 
SACRED 
MUSIC 
FOR 
THREE  PART 
WOMEN'S  CHORUSES 
FORTH   IN   THY   NAME,  O 
LORD  I  GO   Schumann     .20 
GOD  IS  LOVE    Shelley     .20 
HEAVENS  ARE  TELLING  ...Haydn     .25 
IF  YE  LOVE  ME,  KEEP  MY 
COMMMANDMENTS     .  ..Madsen     .25 
IN  THY  FORM    Madsen     .20 
LET  THE  MOUNTAINS  SHOUT 
FOR  JOY    Stephens     .20 
LO,   MY  SHEPHERD  IS  DIVINE 
  Haydn 
.22 
LORD'S  PRAYER   Gates  .20 
LORD,  WE  DEDICATE  THIS 
HOUSE  TO  THEE    Madsen  .20 
MY  REDEEMER  LIVES    Gates  .20 
O  DAY  OF  REST  AND 
GLADNESS     Schumann 
OMNIPOTENCE      Schubert 
Use  this  advertisement  as  your 
order  blank 
Music  Sent  on  Approval 
.20 
.20 
1      DAYNES  MUSIC  COMPANY                           | 
i      15  E.  1st  South                                                  1 
1      Salt  Lake  City  11,  Utah                                    j 
1          Please     send     the     music     indicated      j 
}      above.                                                                       i 
1              D  On   Approval        Q  Charge              j 
1                         n  Money  Enclosed                         i 
]      Name             ! 
1      Address 
1 
j      City  and State    
1 
llaqneslMiMic    | 
15  E.  1st  South 
J'    Salt  Lake  City  11,  Utah 
by  the  Priesthood  of  God  through 
direct  instructions  from  Christ  him- 
self. 
We  must  keep  in  mind  that  every 
office  and  calhng  in  the  Priesthood, 
both  Aaronic  and  Melchizedek,  is 
sacred  and  important  to  the  work  of 
the  Lord.  To  be  ordained  to  a  call- 
ing in  the  Priesthood  is  a  distinction, 
and  to  function  in  the  government 
of  the  Church  is  an  honor  and  a 
blessing.  To  be  worthy  to  act  as 
the  authorized  agent  of  God,  exer- 
cising his  power  among  men,  de- 
mands God-like  actions  in  all  areas 
of  human  behavior.  The  nearer 
men  come  to  perfection,  the  greater 
their  effectiveness  in  their  Priest- 
hood callings.  Therefore,  as  the 
body  of  the  Priesthood  bearers 
achieve  this  perfection,  it  is  reflected 
in  the  operation  of  the  Church. 
The  Worth  of  Souls 
The  importance  of  the  Priesthood 
in  Church  government  is  pointed 
out  in  the  above  discussions. 
Nothing  can  be  done  officially 
without  the  authority  of  the  Priest- 
hood. It  should  also  be  pointed 
out  that  the  government  of  the 
Church,  the  total  organization  and 
program  of  the  Church,  are  de- 
signed by  the  Creator  for  the  wel- 
fare of  man.  There  is  much  evi- 
dence to  support  the  statement  that 
God's  major  purpose  and  concern  is 
the  perfection  of  man.  For  ex- 
ample, in  the  beginning  all  the  intel- 
ligences existed  coeternally  with 
God.  The  personality  of  man  be- 
comes sacred  by  the  fact  of  the 
spiritual  Fatherhood  of  God;  and 
as  a  major  evidence  he,  the  Father, 
gave  his  Only  Begotten  Son  as  a 
154

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
sacrifice  to  open  the  way  for  all 
mankind  to  have  everlasting  life. 
Whenever  the  Church  of  God  has 
been  upon  the  earth,  its  major  duty 
has  been  to  inform  mankind  of  the 
purpose  of  life,  man's  relationship 
to  God  and  to  man,  and  to  make 
man  aware  of  his  own  possibilities 
and  responsibilities-  as  a  child  of 
God. 
Calling  people  to  repentance,  or 
to  accept  the  pattern  of  life  that 
will  assure  them  of  their  greatest 
accomplishments  in  life  and  exalta- 
tion in  the  celestial  kingdom,  is  the 
perpetual  assignment  of  the  Priest- 
hood. 
Priesthood  Quorums  and 
Church  Organization 
To  be  effective  in  the  lives  of  peo- 
ple and  in  the  organization  and 
operation  of  the  Church,  there  need 
to  be  system  and  order  in  the  be- 
stowal of  and  the  operation  of  the 
power  of  the  Priesthood.  Determin- 
ing factors  in  having  the  privilege  of 
Priesthood  bestowal  include  worthi- 
ness of  character,  willingness  to 
serve,  and  knowledge  of  the  duties 
and  obligations  of  the  Priesthood  to 
be  conferred. 
Of  most  importance  in  the  effec- 
tive use  of  power,  is  getting  it  under 
control  and  keeping  it  available. 
Proper  connection  with  the  source 
of  the  power  is  of  vital  importance. 
In  discussing  the  Priesthood,  God  is 
the  source  of  the  power,  it  is  con- 
trolled and  directed  only  through 
the  authorized  agency  upon  the 
earth  and  the  connections  are  acti- 
vated by  righteousness. 
With  every  man  in  the  Church 
a  potential  Priesthood  holder,  it  is 
essential    that    there    be    effective 
LET  US  HELP  YOU  TRAVEL 
WORRY  FREE 
To 
HAWAII  and  SOUTH  PACIFIC 
(New    low    fares) 
EUROPE 
21   Day  Excursion  Tours 
(Save  30%) 
THE  HOLY   LAND 
including    Egypt,    Lebanon,    Jordan,    Israel 
Turkey,      Greece      and      Italy 
(With  Dr.  T.  Edgar  Lyon-March  5th) 
HILL   CUMORAH    PAGEANT 
August  '64 
including   World's   Fair  in   New  York 
(With     Dr.     T.     Edgar     Lyon) 
(Authorized  Agent  for  all  Domestic  and 
International  Carriers) 
MURDOCK  TRAVEL,  INC. 
(Bonded) 
(Your    Experienced    Travel    Counselor) 
14    South    Main    Street 
328-3161 
Salt  Lake  City 
"There    is    no    substitute    for    experience" 
regulations  governing  the  use  of  this 
power.  To  the  Priesthood  holder 
who  serves  the  Lord  in  righteous- 
ness there  is  no  limit  to  the  good 
he  can  do  on  his  own.  But,  to  hold 
an  office  in  the  government  or  a 
position  of  leadership  in  any  organi- 
zation of  the  Church,  he  must  be 
called  to  the  office  by  the  proper 
authority. 
To  provide  an  orderly  operation 
and  development  of  the  Priesthood, 
the  members  holding  the  Aaronic 
and  Melchizedek  Priesthood  are 
organized  into  quorums.  In  The 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints,  a  quorum  is  a  specially  se- 
lected or  chosen  body  referring  to  all 
the  members  of  that  body,  such  as 
a  quorum  of  deacons,  quorum  of 
elders,  etc. 
The  objectives  of  the  Melchizedek 
Priesthood    quorums    are:     (i)    to 
155

FEBRUARY  1964 
promote  gospel  scholarship  by  teach-  ities  of  the  Church.  They  administer 
ing  the  doctrines  of  the  gospel  to  the  affairs  of  the  Church  through 
every  member;  ( 2 )  to  provide  oppor-  stake,    ward,    mission,   and    branch 
tunities  for  Church  services;  (3)  to  officers. 
care  for  the  temporal,  intellectual,  The  stake  presidency  is  appoint- 
and  spiritual  welfare  of  all  quorum  ed  by  the  First  Presidency.  By  con- 
members  and  their  families;  (4)  to  f erring  upon  the  stake  presidency 
provide  adequate  fellowship  and  the  proper  authority,  they  can  call 
fraternalism  through  socials,  athlet-  and  set  apart  the  necessary  stake 
ics,  and  the  like,  for  all  quorum  officers  and  conduct  all  the  business 
members.  {Mdchizedek  Piiesthood  that  pertains  to  the  operation  of  a 
Handbook,  page  21.)  The  quorum  stake.  Excepted  are  bishoprics, 
as  an  organized  body  of  the  Priest-  patriarchs,  presidents  of  high  priests' 
hood  implies  an  ideal  standard  of  quorums,  stake  mission  presidents, 
conduct,  a  common  purpose,  unity  stake  clerks,  and  high  councilors 
of  decision,  and  a  vital  interest  in  (without  permission  from  a  General 
the  welfare  of  each  member.  Authority).    These  ordinances  and 
The  quorum  thus  becomes  a  train-  settings  apart  are  reserved  for  mem- 
ing  ground  for  Church  leadership,  bers  of  the  Twelve,  Assistants  to  the 
In  fact,  when  the  quorum  functions  Twelve,  and  now  the  Presidents  of 
to  its  full  capacity  and   design,   it  Seventy    who    are    ordained    high 
could  meet  most  successfully  all  the  priests. 
activity  and  instructional  needs  of  The  bishopric  is  approved  by  the 
the  Church.     Certainly  not  in  the  First  Presidency,  and  is  set  apart  by 
quorum   meeting  as   such,  but  by  the  proper  General  Authorities.  The 
fully  carrying  out  the  quorum  ob-  bishopric  can  then  proceed  to  call 
jectives,   all   necessary   organization  and   set   apart   the  necessary  ward 
could  be  formulated  under  Priest-  officers;   however,   the  bishopric   is 
hood  leadership.  directly    responsible    to    the    stake 
presidency. 
The  Priesthood  in  Xhe  stake  presidency  can  call  and 
Church  Government  set  apart  branch  presidencies  when 
The  basic  structure  of  Church  branches  are  necessary, 
government  is  seen  in  the  adminis-  The  missions  of  the  Church  are 
trative  officers  and  organization  of  presided  over  by  a  president  called 
its  geographic  units.  Church  gov-  and  set  apart  by  the  First  Presi- 
ernment  is  the  function  of  the  dency.  The  mission  president  with 
Priesthood.  The  authority  and  keys  his  two  counselors  preside  in  the 
of  the  Priesthood  are  centered  in  the  mission.  The  branch  and  district 
Prophet,  Seer,  and  Revelator  of  the  presidents  are  appointed  and  set 
Church.  The  President,  with  his  apart  by  them.  They  represent  the 
Counselors,  the  Quorum  of  the  First  Presidency  and  conduct  the 
Twelve,  the  Patriarch,  the  Assistants  official  business  of  the  mission  un- 
to the  Twelve,  the  Seven  Presidents  der  the  direction  of  the  First  Presi- 
of  Seventy,  and  the  Presiding  Bish-  dency. 
opric  constitute  the  General  Author-  The  Priesthood  quorums  are  sup- 
156