[Vol51 | February 1964 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Lesson | Title: 146 Literature — Carl Sandburg, American Folk Singer Briant S. Jacobs]
LITERATURE 
America's  Literature 
The  Last  Hundred  Years 
Lesson  48  —  Carl  Sandburg,  American  Folk  Singer  (1878-  ) 
Elder  Briant  S.  Jacobs 
(Textbook:  America's  Literature  by  James  D.  Hart  and  Clarence  Gohdes 
Dryden  Press,  New  York,  pp.  850-854) 
For  Third  Meeting,  May  1964 
Objective:  To  understand  and  enjoy  Carl  Sandburg's  substantial  contribution  to  the 
American  tradition. 
It  is  altogether  fitting  that,  of  the 
multifarious  voices  out  of  the  living 
past  which  have  brought  us  to  our- 
selves, it  is  Carl  Sandburg's  which 
is  to  be  sounded  last.  Not  one  of 
America's  greatest  poets,  he  is  never- 
theless one  of  her  great  lovers,  here 
standing  foremost  in  the  1960's  with 
two  of  her  great  immortals  who  have 
most  influenced  his  beliefs  and  his 
method,  namely,  Lincoln  and  Whit- 
man. Having  worked  as  a  common 
laborer,  he  is  well  aware  of  the  com- 
monplace, while  at  the  same  time 
proud  to  be  self-appointed  singer  to 
these,  his  own  people.  Timeless  in 
their  rugged  integrity  and  blunder- 
ing strength,  to  him  they  are  the 
world's  best  hope.  As  he  wrote  in 
1936,  a  period  in  the  United  States' 
history  when  a  collective  soul-search- 
ing and  a  profound  self-appraisal 
were  most  needed: 
The  people  will  live  on. 
The  learning  and  blundering  people  will 
live  on.  .  .  . 
Between  the  finite  limitations  of  the  five 
senses 
and  the  endless  yearnings  of  man  for  the 
beyond 
the  people  hold  to  the  humdrum  bidding 
of  work  and  food 
while  reaching  out  when  it  comes   their 
way 
for  lights  beyond  
the  prison   of  the  five 
senses, 
for  keepsakes  lasting  beyond  any  hunger 
or  death. 
This  reaching  is  alive.  .  .  . 
The  people  know  the  salt  of  the  sea 
and  the  strength  of  the  winds 
lashing  the  corners  of  the  earth. 
The  people  take  the  earth 
as  a  tomb  of  rest  and  a  cradle  of  hone. 
Who  else  speaks  for  the  Family  of  Man? 
They  are  in  tune  and  step 
with   constellations  of  universal  law. 
In   the   darkness  with   a   great   bundle  of 
grief   the   people  march. 
In   the   night,   and   overhead  a   shovel   of 
stars  for  keeps,  the  people  march: 
"Where  to?  what  next?" 
(From  The  People,  Yes,  by  Carl  Sand- 
burg, copyright  1936  by  Harcourt,  Brace 
&  World,  Inc.  Reprinted  by  permission 
of  the  pubhshers.  See  text,  pp.  853-854.) 
Sandburg's  Life 
Charles  Sandburg  was  born  on  a 
comhusk  mattress  in  1878  in  Gales- 
burg,  Illinois,  the  son  of  Swedish  im- 
146

LESSON   DEPARTMENT 
migrant  parents.  His  father,  who  after  the  Spanish-American  War 
could  read  with  difficulty  and  who  was  declared  he  enlisted  for  eight 
signed  his  mortgage  with  ''X,  his  months,  returning  home  to  Gales- 
mark,"  worked  for  twenty-four  years  burg,  "The  Athens  of  the  Corn 
as  blacksmith's  helper  in  the  Chi-  Belt,"  to  work  nights  as  a  fireman 
cago,  Burlington  and  Quincy  shops,  while  attending  Lombard  College 
receiving  six  dollars  a  week  for  six  for  the  next  four  years.  He  left  with- 
ten-hour  days  except  on  Fourth  of  out  a  degree  (though  he  has  since 
July,  Thanksgiving,  and  Christmas,  received  thirty-two  honorary  doc- 
no  work,  no  pay.  His  father  was  a  torates  and  two  Pulitzer  prizes), 
member  of  the  Swedish  Lutheran  For  eight  more  years  after  college 
Church  and  the  Republican  Party,  he  traveled  about  the  Midwest,  first 
but  his  real  faith  was  in  his  hands;  selling  stereopticon  projections,  lat- 
with  them  he  could  make  and  do  er  as  organizer  for  the  Wisconsin 
wonders.  "In  a  way  he  was  superior  Socialist  Democratic  Party,  but 
to  books,"  Carl  remembers.  His  always  scribbling  bits  of  poetry,  and 
mother,  a  gentle,  peaceful  soul,  always  being  one  with  the  working 
taught  her  son  that  "There  are  so  classes,  playing  his  guitar  with  them, 
many  interesting  things  in  life  —  and  writing  down  for  the  first  time 
wonders  made  by  God  for  us  to  the  folk  songs  they  taught  him. 
think  about."  Carl  heard  her  mes-  In  1908,  when  he  was  thirty,  he 
sage,  caught  her  spirit,  claiming  that  married  Lillian  (Paula)  Steichen, 
from  his  sixth  year  when  his  chubby  Phi  Beta  Kappa  graduate  of  the 
hands  first  learned  to  form  the  let-  University  of  Chicago,  sister  of  Ed- 
ters  of  the  alphabet,  he  determined  ward  Steichen,  today  one  of  the 
to  excel  in  words.  world's  greatest  photographers. 
But  what  and  how  were  the  un-  These  two  were  major  influences 
answered  questions.  At  thirteen  he  upon  his  life.  A  third  influence 
left  the  eighth  grade  to  wander  came  through  his  association  with 
about  the  raw  Midwest  vainly  try-  Philip  Green  Wright,  Lombard's 
ing  to  find  himself,  as  hobo,  field  professor  of  English,  mathematics, 
hand,  railroad  laborer,  painter,  dish-  astronomy,  and  •  economics  who 
washer,  fireman,  milkman  —  jobs  sought  to  "stir  us  into  action  in 
which  bored  him'  and  made  him  order  to  see  what  would  happen." 
even  more  restless.  Yet  from  these  Dominated  by  a  strong  social  con- 
seven  years  before  he  entered  Lom-  sciousness,  Wright  formed  a  student 
bard  College  he  gained  his  lifelong  club  for  the  discussion  of  current 
sympathy  with  the  working  classes,  writings  including  those  of  Sand- 
revealed  in  such  poems  as  "I  Am  burg,  in  whose  talent  he  had  great 
the  People,  the  Mob,"  "Fish  Crier,"  faith.  In  1904  and  1905  Wright 
"Psalm  of  Those  Who  Go  Forth  published  Sandburg's  first  three  slim 
Before  Daylight,"  and   "Prayers  of  books. 
Steel."  Such  experiences  also  made  From  1910  to  1912  Sandburg  was 
him  a  militant  supporter  of  William  private   secretary    to    Emil    Seidel,