[WomansExponent | Vol5 | 1876 | October | Issue: 9 | Title: PIPSEY PAPERS. | Author: [COLUMN 3]]

PIPSEY PAPERS.

	I want a little talk with our girls, and I do
not know of a better opportunity than
through the columns of the EXPONENT. I
love them all, bless their dear hearts, and
the boys too. I love to see them inno-
cent, intelligent and beautiful. They can
all be so, yes every one of them. No mat-
ter if nature has not endowed them with
faces that are most attractive to the casual
observer, they may cultivate sweet tempers
and pleasant dispositions, until they will ob-
tain the admiration and respect of all who
are associated with them, and to those who
know their true value, their faces will beam
with grace and beauty. Sons and daugh-
ters of Zion, you are destined, if you so
will it, to fill high places in the world's
honor and esteem. A life of usefulness is
before you. The foundation is laid where-
on you can rear the walls of a goodly edi-
fice, and your names may shine forth in the
annals of history, brilliant as the sun at
noonday. You may be classed with the no-
blest genius of the age, and your names
handed down to posterity emblazoned in
letters, brilliant as of gold; or, they may be
held up to your fellow countrymen as ex-
amples of degradation and shame. It lies
with yourselves to choose your path, and to
walk therein. Let truth, modesty and vir-
tue be your standard, let your lives be open
to investigation, that all your actions may
bear the strictest scrutiny without calling a
blush to your cheek. Then no stain or
blemish will rest upon your characters and
the good you strive for will not be thrown
back as a mockery. Every woman should
guard her virtue as she would her life, that
no tarnish may rest on her fair fame. It is
a duty she owes, not only to herself, but to
her friends and to unborn generations. How
often are parents hearts bowed down and
their lives shortened by the reckless and
unwise course of their children. I often
think, when I see some broken-hearted
mother, mourning over the disgraceful con-
duct of her children, how heartless and
hardened they must be to cause so much
sorrow. If they have no regard for their
own honor or welfare, they might, at least,
respect the parents who reared them, who
would suffer and lay down their lives for

[COLUMN 2]

them if need be, and for THEIR sakes keep
themselves pure and unblemished. For
the sisters who love them, and whose pros-
pects in life may be blighted through no in-
discretion of their own, but through the
recklessness and ill conduct of those who
should, and do profess to love them. They
not only injure themselves, but they do an
irreparable wrong to those who are bound
to them by the tenderest ties of relation-
ship. Then I would say to my young
friends, be watchful and prayerful lest in
some unguarded moment the enemy should
take advantage, and a rash act be commit-
ted that can never, never be recalled. No
tears, sorrow, or repentance, no remorse,
however deep, can give back to a woman
her lost chastity. No atonement can erase
the blemish on her fair fame. She brings
upon herself a lifetime of agonies, of suffer-
ing and repentance.
	She not only loses her own respect, but
she loses the respect, and outrages the feel-
ings of her friends and kindred, and be-
queathes to her children a legacy of shame.
How must a young man or woman of intel-
ligence and high principles feel to bear the
brand of illegitimacy? Who can imagine
the agony of outraged feelings, when the
disgraceful information comes to them as it
is apt to do sooner or later. Could they be
blamed if they turned with loathing from
the parents they had learned to love and
reverence? Thus do, misdeeds follow the
perpetrator as long as life continues.
	And what of the man that could cause
all this sorrow and despair? Can he pass
without spot or blemish? Not by any means.
He should be marked for execration, held
up as a thing too foul for the companionship
of modesty and virtue. Man who is strong
in his passions, in his love and affections,
should be strong also in honor and self-con-
trol. He should look on every woman as a
mother or a sister, and guard her honor as
he would her life, with his own if need be.
What man would not strike down the
wretch who by violence would harm a de-
fenseless woman. How much more should
he be struck down who would insinuate
himself into her kind feelings, win her af-
fections, and in an unguarded moment, steal
from her the honor that is more sacred to
her than her life. No words can describe
the execration we should feel for such a vil-
lain, his life is not too much to pay the for-
feit. But, says one, does not marriage make
reparation? Yes, a poor pitiful reparation,
but not restoration. It cannot erase the
blemish from her crown of virtue, nor re-
store to her the happiness and innocence of
her maidenhood. Such marriages are al-
ways incomplete, and often unhappy. Ev-
ery man prefers taking to his home a pure
and unsullied bride, and he will not give
honor to those of tarnished name even
though he himself is the cause of it. Neith-
er will he give the same respect and con-
fidence to a woman whose purity he knows
to be of such doubtful texture.
	Girls, guard your virtue as with a wall of
adamant, and do not even countenance the
man who does not hold virtue sacred, shun
him as you would the viper that is seeking
your heart's blood. Do not let love plead
his cause, for he is unworthy the name of
love, much less the affection of a pure and
honorable woman. Give heed to the coun-
sel of your friends, and let your language
and manners be modest and refined. Let
all your thoughts be pure and holy. Cast
aside all books and papers that are calcula-
ted to influence the emotions in a wrong di-
rection or contaminate the mind. Shun the
companionship of the vulgar and unprinci-

[COLUMN 3]

pled, allow no undue familiarity in any of
your communications, and you will never
have cause for repentance.
	MARY.


