Gods law and Human Behavior Dr. Ariel S. Ballif Professor of Sociology Brigham Young University [Address Delivered at the Social Science Departmental Meeting, Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 1, 1964] "It is a most humbling experience to meet with the dynamic leadership of the Relief Society of the Church. I have always 244 been impressed with the faithfulness and the dedication of Relief Society workers. I have observed it at close range. My lovely wife has been and is a tireless worker in Relief Society. I have considered myself a member of your organization ever since I was a bishop, more so as a stake president, and an ardent member as a mission president. During these last three years, it has been my privilege to try to help the sisters of the Church understand more clearly the relationship of the Priesthood to the functioning of Church government. This year our effort has been to emphasize the effectiveness and value of applying God's law to the government of human behavior, particularly when it is carried out under the concept of love for the welfare of mankind. Each year the social science lessons of the Relief Society have examined an area of human interaction, observed the forces producing human _ behavior, and considered ways and means of improving the stimulation for and raising the standard of behavior of the members of the Society. God's organization on earth is designed to give direction to the lives of human beings so that through faith and the exercise of intelligent choice one can obtain the fullness of his possibilities and, eventually, reach perfection. Divine law is not restrictive nor designed as a deterrent. On the contrary, it is creative and dynamic with the welfare of mankind as its objective. 'For behold, this is my work and my glory— to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." of Church 0vernment Is "to It must Produce evidence of the bring to bass the immortality and continua] improvement of human eternal life of man" (Moses 1: Conduct. The fina] Product jg the ).: tention js Called to the fected human family. Our at fact that the law of God and his The function of Church LovOrganization is devoted entirely ernment must embody al] of the long-suffering Sentleness, meek. Taken away decision. It would 121 41.) Creativity. His plan Tecognized Tom this Point of View, € potentia] of God IN man Church Sovernment Should PYoan Provided a Organization Vide the direction for the activity through whi ay enjoy of life from birth to death, the Perfection of the Father. "Be including the daily routine of ye therefore Perfect, even as your Makin living op Solving the Fr, €r which js €aven js Problems r society, Should be berfect" ( Matt. 5 4 Included Christ's Sovernment On earth We should Put forth every effort to ending thirst for and the quest the Supplant aristocracy of wealth 7 With the aristocracy of Character and of knowledge to awaken in the Minds of the youth There are those in the World who 4 realization that to be honest, 'to be say that Jealousy, enmity, Selfishness €Pendable, to be loyal Citizen of in men's hearts Will always Preclude C country, to be rue e€ stand. He estab] Shing of the id a Society ards of th Gospel are the noblest nown the kj dom of re Peace and good will are attitudes of mind. An attitude is a tendency to act in a dependable way in a given situation. Attitudes are learned through a series of experiences which bring about pleasing, satisfying, and desired results. Attitudes grow out of study, human contacts, and associations. They are more than feelings or opinions. They are more accurately revealed in what we do than in what we say. THE true religious attitude of an individual is revealed in his activity related to the teachings of the Church. For example, when one testifies to being a member of the Church and that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God and that God spoke through Joseph to us, and then the testifier disregards revealed laws given by the Prophet, the strength of the person's testimony is found in his actions, not in his stated word. Jesus found a similar condition among the Jews when he said, "Ye hypocrites, well did Ksaias prophecy to you, saying, This people draweth nigh unto me with their mouth, and honoureth me with their lips; but their heart is far from me" (Matt. 15: 7-8). This applies not only to a specific revelation but to telling the truth in all situations, being honest in all one's dealings with God and man, and in every other principle of the good life that has been revealed. Church government is designed by divine law to give direction to the lives of human beings so that they may find expression for the fullness of their possibilities. As has been pointed out, under divine law, the Church, 246 through the home, has been given the major responsibility of setting the proper example. The parents must translate into action the teachings of the Savior. Under this influence the child begins the development of attitudes that last throughout his life, such as faith in God, acceptance of divine law, and the application of the same in the love of fellow men. A second major responsibility of Church government is so to direct the membership that, as a community, the proper environment is developed. An important concern is the temporal welfare of each member. Reducing suffering from hunger or unemployment is only a part of the responsibility. Health, recreation, and education are of equal importance in the temporal welfare of the members of the Church. A third major responsibility is to challenge the intellect of every member of the Church. Spiritual development and __ intellectual growth must go hand in hand. We must think about religion in order to formulate an intellectual understanding of it. And _ intellectual understanding is just as needful in religion as anywhere else. We must not permit the surface of the waters of religious life to become fixed and crystalized by the freezing of religious thought (BROWN, PRESIDENT Hucu B., Church News, May 30, 1964). The development of proper attitudes for all Church members requires the proper functioning of all three of the above-mentioned responsibilities. In the opening passage of the first of Confucius' four books is the following statement: When true knowledge is achieved, then one has sincerity of purpose. When there is sincerity of purpose, then comes rightness of heart. With the rightness of heart, then the personal life can be cultivated. With the cultivation of personal life, the family 'life may be regulated. When _ the family life is regulated, then the national life is orderly. And when the national life is orderly, then there is peace in the world. From the emperor down to the common man, all must regard the cultivation of the personal life as the root or foundation. There is never an orderly superstructure when the foundation is wobbly. There is never a tree whose trunk is slim and weak and whose top branches are well grown. THE home is the training ground for the members of the kingdom. | If the family performs its function, the basic attitudes toward peace and good will are established. The same motivation as exists in the family must be present in the community of the membership of the Church. With each family functioning according to the divine instruction (D&C 68:25-26), the ward environment would be ideal for the production of love and understanding. The teachings of the Savior are not just for the refreshing of our minds about beautiful ideals. Every principle of the gospel must become a functioning part of the life of each member. The struggle must be one's own. Nobody may do the learning act for another. One cannot obtain wisdom, or learning, or beauty of character as a gift or an inheritance.... Here, as elsewhere, he must perfect himself through his own striving; and he cannot rise above the level of his own accomplishment wrought through his own labor (BOWEN, ALBERT E.: Conference Report, April 5, 1948, page 91). GOD'S LAW AND HUMAN BEHAVIOR The maturing of the individual is an outcome of experience and association. The tendency to act in a given way is dependent upon how well or how effectively and frequently, the principles of the good life have been presented to the individual. No virtue is practiced without training and understanding. Few persons are honest without the standard of honesty being systematically presented in a positive and unwavering manner. The same is true of chastity, kindness, justice, and _ loyalty. These are some of the traits which characterized the life of the Savior and that each person must acquire to develop peace and good will in his heart. This is slow, but can be a _ steady process. For thousands of years men have tried to maintain peace through the development of machines of destruction. There has been a constant flow of inventive genius to produce the most destructive instruments of war, from simple hand weapons, to missiles. With the discovery of explosive power there has developed undreamed of force from explosives, until one blast can destroy a city and hundreds of thousands of human beings. With the growth of such power, fear has filled the hearts of men. Nations are employing their top physical scientists and _ their wealth to produce more effective and accurate means of destruction. Each great political power watches with envy the triumph in this field of the other nations. A major result of the power race is increase of suspicion, hatred, and enmity among nations and in the hearts of all the people. THERE is a gleam of hope in the power struggle of nations found in the technical developments that bring people closer together. Now man can circle the globe in hours. There are no protective walls in the form of mountains or oceans. We are close neighbors to any and all of the peoples of the earth. We must learn more about them. Understanding our neighbors opens the way for friendly relations. The more friendly the people, the greater the possibility for peace. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints has approximately twelve thousand missionaries, mostly young men and women, teaching the principles of righteousness and peaceable understanding to the people of the world. Theirs is an unselfish effort to show people the only way to live happily together. They are demonstrating by their teachings and practice the value of love in the lives of human beings, showing that "the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance: against such there is no law" (Gal. 5: 22-23). They (the missionaries) need the support of the home community to _ illustrate the truths of their teachings. They need every Latter-day Saint family to demonstrate the effectiveness of love of God and love of fellow men. The government of God, which is the operation of divine law, is the only way to establish peace and good will in the hearts of men. There is no other way. Peace is the product of a clear 248 conscience, of reason and _ intelligence, and of faith in God and an understanding of man's relationship to him. It is a result of the concerted effort of and intent of the best performance of the minds of men. Peace will come when the leadership of this world and the people in it are willing to recognize God's plan, and work harder, sacrifice more, and use all their resources for the development of his plan. Peace can come about when all people are concerned as much about the welfare of others as they are about themselves. It can happen when all men let the motive of service to others be the impelling drive in the performance of their professions. Prac is not the easy way of life. It is the way of life that is directed by the pattern that Jesus gave us. "Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends" (John 15:13). Christ's joy and glory came in using his talents, experience, and power for the welfare and improvement of mankind. When he performed a miracle, he advised the beneficiary to go his way and tell no one what had happened. In meeting the opposition, he did not use force. He could have called legions of angels to protect him but he did not. He met force with love and kindness. He rebuked Peter when Peter smote off the ear of the soldier who was about to take the Christ a_ prisoner. Then the Savior restored the ear to the wounded man. He always did good to those who despitefully used or abused him. Jesus went out to find those who were weary and sick at heart, and gave them courage, healing their broken parts, and counseling them to love God and love their fellow men.: The divine law provides the necessary direction for obtaining perfection. Perfection is the goal of man as designed by the Creator. In Adam's time, and also in the time of Enoch, and while Jesus was upon the earth, and at the time recorded in Fourth Nephi, those near the source of divine instruction obtained a degree of perfection. They were taught correct principles and, with freedom of choice made with full knowledge, they were able to make right decisions. True virtue (knowing right from wrong and choosing the right) existed. The off-balance in conduct came when deception, greed, covetousness, selfishness, or other human weaknesses ___ distorted their knowledge, their reason, and their faith, and then the people made their decisions influenced by their degree of unrighteousness. In these conditions the love of God and love of fellow men, so basic to peace and good will, are lost. Let us return now to the basic point of our lessons for the past three years—''Divine Law and Church Government." The effort has been to bring to you a discussion of divine law and its function in Church government through the Priesthood, which is the power of God delegated to man. The purpose of the government of the Church is to fulfill the objective of the Creator, "For beGOD'S LAW AND HUMAN BEHAVIOR hold, this is my work and my glory—to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man'"' (Moses 1:39). The mission of Jesus Christ to this earth established the pattern by which the objective of God can be realized. His pattern of life, his motivation in all his activity on this earth was demonstrated in the first and great commandment:... Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself. On these two commandments hang. All the law and the prophets (Matt. 22: 37-40). As the Savior was about to leave this world he said to his disciples, ''Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you (John 14:27). His peace came from knowing he had filled to the fullness the will of the Father in his (Christ's) service to mankind. The love he had for his Father was demonstrated in the good he did for his fellow men. How often he said, "If ye love me, keep my commandments." If we would know his peace, we must follow in his footsteps. May God bless the efforts of the mothers in Zion. And may the Lord's influence be felt by this great leadership group in the task of bringing to the women of the Church a full realization of the importance of their strategic place in stimulating their husbands and sons to full performance of their duties in the Priesthood. 249 swedish Conversion