Walt Whitman said in referring to his book, "Leaves of Grass," ''Whoso touches this book touches a man." Be independent?you have a right to your own opinion, and if you are broad minded enough to study your opinion will change. Read for your own pleasure?not for mere thrills, but for the high pleasure which is genuinely cultural. Men, eager to hear the material on this very important subject, that it was necessary to adjourn to Barratt Hall, where Mrs. Inez K. Allen RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE presided. The following statement and outline formed the subject for an enlightening lecture: "Psychology and Personal Development," by Professor M. Wilford Poulson. Professor Poulson's Remarks During the last hundred years Mormonism has been an important factor in helping people to appreciate more than ever the importance of human values as contrasted with mere physical property, or things. Physical things are merely means toward ends, but human beings are ends in themselves?capable of infinite and eternal progress. We are all acquainted. With the wonderful flash of divine inspiration which says, "As man is, God once was; and as God is, man may become." We may have noticed that it does not state that we can be certain of becoming as God is, but rather that it is a statement of possibility ?''man may become" is the wording. The national Woman's Relief Society of the Church has ever been in the vanguard when it came to the appreciation of human or personality values. In line with this fact, it has been decided during the coming season to study a number of lessons intended to enlist the science of psychology. The aim is to help the members enhance their own personalities, so as to become in turn more efficient in the service of others. DEFINITE final decision as to the text to be used has not been made, but the nature of the nine lessons has been somewhat definitely agreed upon. I shall first outline by means of topics and brief comments, the general nature of these lessons, and then discuss somewhat more adequately one of them. 305 A tentative listing of the lessons is as follows: What Is Personality? I, Personality?Its meaning and development. (a) Definition. (b) The traits that make for efficiency in dealing with other people. (c) Those which mar our influence with others. (d) Possibilities for the adult development of important personality traits. II. The Problem of the Inheritance of Mental Traits. (a) Comparison of Physical and Mental Traits. (b) Limitations of our knowledge of human heredity. (c) Fallacies of the fatalists in this field. (d) Grounds for a hopeful attitude. Habit and Growth III. Habit formation and growth. (a) Advantages of habits?how they may set us free? (b) Disadvantages of habits, how they may enslave us. (c) Formation of new habits and breaking undesirable ones. (d) Retaining our plasticity and vitality. IV. The Problem of Memorizing More Efficiently. (a) Memorizing ability in relation to age. (b) Efficient and inefficient methods of memorizing. (c) What we should and should not burden the memories with. Conversation V. The Psychology of Conversation, Writing and Public Speaking. (a) Appreciation of the point of view and needs of others. 306 (b) Being a good listener? (c) Personal achievement?Being a person that others would like to listen to?.(d) How to increase one's mastery of language. VI. Developing Originality and Initiative. (a) What is originality in the best sense of the term? (b) Relation of originality to imitation. (c) How may originality and initiative be developed? Better Thinking VII. The Problem of Better Thinking. (a) Types of Thinking. (b) (Counterfeit thinking?can we recognize it in ourselves and others? (c) Pitfalls of thinking we need to recognize and avoid? (d) Genuine or creative thinking. VIII. The Gospel of Relaxation. (a) Valuable hobbies to cultivate. (b) Tendencies 'to over-tension in American life. (c) Relaxation and sleep. (d) What the gospel may do to give poise and control. Leadership IX. The Psychology of Leadership. (a) Arbitrary despotism vs. The democratic leadership of insight and service. (b) Personal traits that distinguish leaders. (c) Where we should lead and where we should follow. (d) Cultivation of insight and other necessary qualities of good leaders.: Final Test of Value OMEONE has said that the ultimate test, the measure of the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE worth of an institution, is the kind of personality it tends to produce. On this subject two of our Latter-day Saint writers have recently expressed themselves. One wrote: "In the contemplation of that personality in which so much of God was manifest in the guise of man, there is felt a tide of moral life, a classification of moral insights and righteous purposes. With the perception that personality is the highest thing in the world and that the enhancing of it is the greatest end in life, there comes a sense of imperfection, of the slightness of attainment as compared with infinite possibilities. The heart is transformed, and things are seen in new proportions." (Life of W. H. Chamberlin, p. 182.) With gifted insight the other writes: "There is no greater job and no more profitable undertaking than the improvement of our own lives. We cannot dream ourselves into a great life. We must simply take ourselves in hand where we are, and with patience and determination overcome those weaknesses which hold us back." Social Service Case-Work Department SOCIAL Service Case Work, as a Department of the Relief Society Conference, met in the Auditorium of the Bishop's Building, Mrs. Amy W. Evans presiding in the absence of Counselor Amy B. Lyman. It was largely attended by ward presidents and social service aids. Mr. D. A. Skeen, chairman of the Commission to select a site for the School for the Feebleminded, was the speaker. Thanking the members of the Relief Society for doing so much for the establishment of the school, he took occasion also to stress the great need for such an RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE institution. Only recently have we looked upon the problem: of the feebleminded as one calling for very serious consideration, serious in the idea that it may be remedied. Such schools are now established in all but two of the states. In these schools a proper training of the feeble-minded has so developed that many of the pupils have become self-sustaining and useful citizens instead of a heavy expense. The public pays the penalty for neglect of proper training for mentally inferior people. It is estimated that nearly half of the delinquent people in our state have tendencies of the feebleminded. A site for the school, consisting of 500 acres with wonderful water supply has been secured in American Fork, and construction of the State Training School for the Feebleminded will shortly begin. The meeting was concluded by the presentation of two case studies, one by Mrs. Elizabeth C.: Williams, the other by Miss Margaret Davis, social case worker in the Welfare Department of the General Relief Society office. Work and Business Department Work and Business Department Meeting was held in the Auditorium of the Bishop's Building. The presiding officer, Mrs. Amy W. Evans, spoke to the workers on "Welfare Values of the Work and Business Meeting." A recommendation by the committee, endorsed by the General Board, was that each member of the ward Relief Societies contribute one new article of clothing each year to the ward organization. Remodeled clothing, if in good condition, would be acceptable. If at any time a stake has more than it can use, it should get 307 in touch with the General Board, who will be glad to act as a clearing house to receive and dispose of the articles. If in the entire stake there is not sufficient need, and the clothing accumulates, or if any stake does not have enough clothing to supply the needs of its poor, the stake president should notify the General Board. Public showers, it was felt, should be discouraged, as the sort of help required is not usually given, and there are better ways of accomplishing the results than through public showers. Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford discussed "The Value of a Stake Plan." She urged all the stakes to have their plans at the beginning of the year, as an objective to which all the wards may look with better results. Outlines that certain stakes and wards had submitted were read. They cover a different program for each month of the year, thus offering a sufficient variety. The plan of having light refreshments served at the Work and Business meeting often works out well. A display was given of some of the articles that had been made in the work and business meetings, and the methods of preparation explained. Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter spoke on the report of the survey on the Work and Business Meeting, giving some of the questions used in the survey; and certain of the answers were read. The survey has demonstrated the Work and Business Meeting in many of the stakes to be one of the most valuable. Mrs. Baxter urged stake and ward presidents to choose capable and genial supervisors, who are able to keep every member of the organization interested, PRESIDENT LOUISE Y. ROBISON With the basket of roses presented by the Relief Societies of the ten stakes of Salt Lake County, for the Centennial Conference of the Relief Society. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto?Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON - MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - 3 5 MRS. JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD - MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND = 3 Mrs. Emma A. Empey Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford President First Counselor: 3 -. Second Counselor 3 - General Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Inez K, Allen Mrs. Ida P. Beal Mrs. Kate M. Barker Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - Manager - - Assistant Manager. 3 7 Room 20, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Alice Louise REYNOLDS - Louise Y. Robison Amy Brown Lyman Magazine entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Vor. XVII JUNE, 1930 No.