[Vol22 | September 1935 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Article | Title: The Plea of the Magazine]
Program for Relief Society Magazine Campaign By Clarinda M. Green TWO children walk on stage carrying a large Relief Society Magazine. Magazine made out of large placards in form of book. Children dressed in pages costume enter at right and walk across to left of stage. Place magazine on stand while officers sing "Our Magazine" by Eliza Catmull. As song is finished, one child turns the cover of the magazine and another child points to article on first page "Quinquennials" (July Mag. P. 408). As child points to article a Relief Society woman enters from right and briefly gives contents of that article. Exit. Child turns second page and another child points to article "Emotional Reactions to Unemployment and Relief" (July Mag. P. 387). Relief Society woman enters from right and gives contents of that article. Exit. Same action is carried out in the following articles: Story. "To your Tents, O Israel" July Mag. P. 427. Editorial "Utah State Flag" July Mag. P. 439. "For Young Mothers" Feb. Mag. P. 98. Poetry. "My Investment" by Estella Wilson Peterson. Frontispiece Oct. 1933 Mag. "Happenings" from any magazine. "Building a Diet" poem by Eliza Catmull. "Notes from the Field" Dec. 1933 Mag. "Notes to the Field" Aug. 1934 Mag. Teachers' Topic. "Courage to Meet Life's Problems" Apr. Mag. P. 238. "Your Home Beautiful" as child points to this article, curtain rises on See page 595. "A Home Beautiful" Characters: Father, Mother, Betty age 10, Nora age 14, Nell age 16, Ted age 19. At right down center, father sitting in large easy chair reading Relief Society Magazine. Nora sitting on foot stool in front of him, studying. Nell and Ted sitting at each end of Library Table at center back, studying. Mother down left center working on yarn cushion with Betty watching her and holding candy dish in hand and eating candy. At end table with small bank on it at side of mother's chair. Ted: Hey, Sis, Mother, put that candy dish down on this table, what is the big idea taking it off? Betty: It's good. Father: Sure it's good, bring it back here. Nora: Yes, pass it around, you don't need it all. (Betty passes candy around). Nell: Mother, this fudge is better than mine, where did you get the new recipe? Betty: She got it out of the Relief Society Magazine and I helped make it. Nora: Mother, we have to write an essay on Church Government for Seminary. Where can I find some information? Mother: Doc. And Cov Section 20. Vol. I of Church History, or you can find a good account of it in the Feb. 1933 Relief Society Magazine. Nora: Where is it? Mother: In that bound volume on the library table. (Nora goes to table, gets book and returns to her stool and reads). Father: (Who is still reading magazine). Quite a trip these Relief 

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

 Society women had at the World's Fair last summer. Mother: Yes, it just thrilled me to read the report of the International Congress of women, and the account of the whole trip and the climaxing of the trip by the unveiling of the Relief Society monument at Nauvoo. It certainly tells the story of women's achievements. Ted: (rising) Guess I'll have to go down to the library for a little while, I've got to get a reference book for my psychology. Mother: What is the name of the book? Ted: "Influencing Human Behavior." Mother: Why, I have that book, it is right there in front of you. Ted: (looks over books on library table and picks up the one he wants) Well, where did you get it? Mother: It has been there for two years. We studied that in Relief Society in our Social Service lessons. There are some good outlines on each chapter in the 1931-32 Relief Society Magazines. Nell: Maybe the Relief Society Magazine can give me some help. Where can I find something on Biblical Literature? Mother: You will find that in the March 1934 magazine. I also have a book "The Story of the World's Literature," by Macey which will give you a lot of valuable information. We have been studying from that book a year and will continue it this winter. Father: Here is a little pink slip says your magazine has expired. Have you renewed yet? Mother: No, Father, I haven't quite enough pennies (reaches bank from end table and holds up). Father: What is that? Mother: That is my Relief Society Magazine bank. 595 Father: A bank? I thought that was some kind of an ornament you had been making in Relief Society. How many pennies do you need? Mother: I counted them the other day and I need eight more. Father: (putting hands in pocket) Anybody got any pennies around here? (children and father all go to pockets and purses and find ten pennies) There, now, that makes the hundred pennies and two to start on for next year. Looks as if this were a very valuable magazine around here. Mother: Yes, father, it is a valuable magazine. It is an inspiration to me. Not only for the educational values I receive from it, but the stories and articles are all an inspiration to me. *Each topic was allotted three minutes' time except the Story and little play which took a little longer. It just took up the time of the Sacrament meeting which was given to us by the bishop. 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

 (Tune: Maryland) By Eliza Catmull A little story I will tell About a book we love so well; Upon its pages you will find The gospel's truths?God's word divine. Chorus: Our magazine, our magazine, The little book we so esteem; The readings all are good and clean In this our R. S. Magazine, It brings a message of good cheer; The teachers topics for the year, A college course that's up to time? Lessons planned to improve the mind. Its efforts all the Lord has blessed, It is the keynote of success. We ask you kindly to subscribe, And help it as it onward strives. Come sisters rally to the call, We want your help, we need you all, "A magazine in every home'? The gospel seed will then be sown. 596 MY FRIEND By Sadie Adamson They tell me we have no friends That are really truly so, They are just acquaintances we meet As we travel to and fro. I differ with these statements For I have a friend so true, I depend upon every month To bring me thoughts anew. My leisure time is so controlled So happy and so fine, I'll gain an education Just through this friend of mine. When I'm steeped in thought My vision seems to climb, And somehow shape the way for me To heights that are sublime. You'd never guess the rapture That flows within my breast, When the postman bows and smiles Mrs..........-. Here's your guest. I extend my hand in greeting Like a Miss of seventeen, And settle down in comfort sweet With my Relief Society Magazine. MAGAZINE SONG Springtime in the Rockies) (Slowly) When it's autumn in the Rockies It's Magazine time in the Ward, Little journal of the mountains With your cheerful, pleasing words; There is poetry and there's fiction And there's lessons fine for you, When it's Autumn in the Rockies It is journal time for you. A FAITHFUL FRIEND By Emma Jesperson (Tune: I'm looking for a magazine That comes each month to me And if you'd like to know its name 'Tis Relief Society. 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

 It has been my loved companion Since nineteen twenty-three, And oh, what joy and comfort It has always brought to me. It has taught me to be brave and strong In all I strive to do, It has helped me to be a faithful wife And a better mother too. It has taught me to be cheerful If sometime things went wrong It has kept me in a better mood All of the day long. So I'll say hurrah for our magazine! And subscribe for it each year. For it will always be a friend of mine As long as I am here. ~ THE MAGAZINE By Eliza Coleman (Tune: Magazine, O Magazine, On this day we cheer; Learning truth and honor From your pages dear. Help us ever magazine, With your messages right; May we ever cherish Thy way of life so bright. Chorus: Magazine, O Magazine, We thy cause hold dear, Giving truth and courage Magazine we cheer. We are full of valor, For thy wondrous way, Pure in thoughts of honor To those who blazed the way. Help us ever magazine With hope for victory Bidding all a welcome For opportunity. Onward Christian Soldiers) Begin Next Monday Prepare for a position in business as Secretary, Stenographer, Accountant, Bookkeeper or Office Assistant. Technical business training, added to your previous education, will qualify you for a foothold in a business office, where you can forge ahead. Secretarial, Business Administration, Accounting and Finishing courses. Successful placement service. Send for free catalog. L. D. S. Business College Salt Lake City Preserve Your Magazines by having them permanently bound & "THERE is a vast amount of valuable reference material in your Relief Society Magazine. You can preserve this material permanently and in attractive book form by having your volumes bound. SPECIAL RATE FOR QUANTITIES The Deseret News Press Pioneer Printers, Binders, Rulers )
