[Vol22 | September 1935 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field Lund]
I hardly know how to express this, It's been such a wonderful treat. With the lessons and broad information And friendships endearing and sweet."
PAGEANT GIVEN BY MONTPELIER STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY
NOTES FROM THE FIELD
Montpelier Stake
A BEAUTIFUL pageant was presented in Montpelier Stake in February, 1935, featuring the Bible. The pageant was so successful that there was a special request that it be repeated, which was done. All the married people in the community were invited, including non-members of the Church. There was so much interest in this pageant that it has been used by other stakes.
Relief Society Magazine: Mrs. Agnes Pearce, a former Relief Society President of Montpelier Stake, presented her complete set of Relief Society Magazines, from 1914 to 1935, to the stake, and they are now being bound for permanent reference.
Rigby Stake
RIGBY Stake reports an art institute which was most unique and interesting. Fancy needlework and many beautiful quilts were displayed. Demonstrations in basketry, painting, crepe paper, rug making, cut work, tatting and yarn work were
569
given. A department for cooking and beverages was very popular. Chloe Laker is the Stake Art Director.
Relief Society Magazine Campaign (Duchesne Stake)
THE report of the Magazine Drive in Duchesne Stake came to the office too late to be included with the other stakes doing good work. We congratulate the women of this stake on the number of subscriptions received, and thank them for the effort made.
Nevada Stake
IN their enthusiastic Magazine Drive last year, the Nevada Stake adopted the slogan "A Relief Society Magazine in every home." A contest was inaugurated to procure original ideas on means and ways of making and saving one hundred pennies or the one dollar for one year's subscription to the Relief Society Magazine. The rules were:
1. Any Relief Society member or officer is eligible to send them in at any time until September 1, 1934.
HAWAIIAN MISSION
570
2. Decision to be made by the three judges to be final.
3. The prize to go to the winner of their decision.
4. On a separate slip your name and address enclosed in the same envelope.
5. Send directly to Dora Atkinson, Box 1815, McGill, Nevada.
Hawaiian Mission
WE are in receipt of a delightful letter from Sister Verna F. Murphy, President of the Relief Societies of the Hawaiian Mission. She reports the safe return of the Hawaiian delegates which attended the April, 1935, conference. It was a great pleasure to receive this delegation and to become better acquainted with our members from across the sea.
Liberty Stake
AS an outgrowth of two years' study of the history of music, the Relief Societies of Liberty Stake presented a closing musicale. Beginning with the music made by the morning stars when they sang together on the morning of creation, and tracing music through the years in both its secular and sacred forms, the history of music was completely presented. The facts themselves, gleaned from a comprehensive notebook carefully kept by the Stake Organist, Adeline Ensign, were cast into poetry by Claire Stewart Boyer and read to appropriately selected
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
organ music. Instrumental music was represented by the harp, the organ and an instrumental trio. Vocal developments ran the gamut from the first hymn, the Magnificat, sung by Mary when she visited Elizabeth, through a speaking choir, the folk song, opera and oratorio. The choruses were composed of more than 200 Relief Society members. Mabel Poulton Kirk and Olive Hickman conducted the choruses while Adeline Ensign accompanied both reader and choruses upon the organ. Love of music was the aim and it can best be expressed in the following excerpt:
Music
Music is eternal spirit, eternally revealed, God is the author, the composer and the director, Each voice is an instrument in his hands; Love is the melody and truth the words; Life plays upon all instruments; Here are the violins that carry the beauty along, Here are the winds, the low sweet echo of motive in song, Here are the tones of brass going cling, clong. So is the symphony divine.
Music gives joy that is art, fair art, Music gives courage that good deeds may start, Music lifts high the hope of the heart— So is the symphony divine.
—Claire Stewart Boyer.
 
THE GENERAL BOARD
Emma A. Empey Ethel Reynolds Smith Hazel H. Greenwood Annie Wells Cannon Rosannah C. Irvine Emeline Y. Nebeker Jennie B. Knight Nettie D. Bradford Mary Connelly Kimball Lalene H. Hart Elise B. Alder Janet M. Thompson Lotta Paul Baxter Inez K. Allen Belle S. Spafford Cora L. Bennion Ida P. Beal Donna Durrant Sorensen Amy Whipple Evans Marcia K. Howells
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor: Mary Connelly Kimball Manager: Louise Y. Robison Assistant Manager: Amy Brown Lyman


VOL. XXII SEPTEMBER, 1935 No. 9
EDITORIAL
M. I. A. Slogan
"WE STAND FOR SPIRITUALITY AND HAPPINESS IN THE HOME"
WE congratulate the M. I. A. on the selection of this timely slogan. For some years the trend has been away from the home until it has become all too often merely a place where meals were served and where people slept. A place to go away from for pleasure. There has not been time to read the Scriptures or cultivate spirituality in the home, for the members were flitting all the time. In too many cases the task of instilling spirituality in the hearts of the children has been left to the auxiliaries. This responsibility belongs primarily to the parents, it cannot be shifted, and the home is the nursery where it must be cultivated. All too many parents who have been so engrossed in business, church activities, or other affairs, that they have delegated their responsibility of training their children to organizations, will find when too late that no organization can take the place of mother and father and the home.
EVERY home should cooperate to make effective this slogan, "We stand for spirituality and happiness in the home." Home is the foundation of society where love and authority entwine. Men are and will ever be largely what their homes have made them. Fortunate are the children who in their youth have learned obedience, neatness, punctuality, courtesy, economy, respect and love in their homes. In this first of schools, they should learn not only to obey others, but to obey themselves. "Self-obedience is doing what you resolve to do, be it easy or hard; self-indulgence is doing what you want to do under the promptings of the taste or passion." Brent.
EVERY boy and girl should have duties in the home. This will
571
give them better chances of becoming fine personalities. Children who accept service without reciprocation become selfish and think that they should have whatever they can seize without paying the price. "The world is largely a world of compulsions." Those who in their homes have not been taught the inevitability of law and how "to convert a necessity into a virtue" are apt to become embittered or crushed when they go forth from the sheltering walls of the home.
VISION should be cultivated in the home, for while freedom of choice is a most desirable possession, its necessary concomitant, to make it worthwhile, is vision From earliest childhood children should have religious trust instilled into their minds. Brent truly says, "It is as
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
ridiculous to leave a child to select his own religious belief and observances as to allow him to select his own literature, his own habits of dress, or his own food. The discipline of simple faith demanded of the child soul by spiritual affirmation, made by parents' lips and conduct, can have no substitute. It often springs in from the past, as the deciding factor in the life of a man, who under the stress of severe trial, is trembling on the brink of ruin, and would be lost but for this breath of a sacred yesterday."
In the home where spirituality is taught and lived, there will be happiness and those who go forth from such a home will be good citizens and will be trained and ready to do their part in carrying on the work of the church and the nation.
Back to School
AS boys and girls return to school this Fall, their fathers and mothers open memory's casket and think how different are conditions now than they were in their school days. Never before have there been such fine school buildings. There are well equipped libraries, scientific equipment, manual training apparatus, domestic science facilities, opportunities for sewing such as the parents never dreamed of available to the young today. School is made so delightful that the days wing their way past. But there are all too many distractions from serious mental work. Sororities and fraternities, athletic sports, auto riding, movies and many other pastimes are taking all too much of the time of many of the young people. There is an overindulgence in sweets. It is no uncommon thing on the campus of our col-
572
leges and universities to see young women eating chocolate bars at nine or ten in the morning. Many laughingly say, "O, this is my breakfast." Candy is not the right kind of a meal, and many of these young women will later pay the penalty for improper diet. These young people need to learn moderation. No matter how good a thing is if indulged in to excess, it becomes an evil. Some students study so hard and become so engrossed in their mental work that they neglect their physical or spiritual needs and many break under the strain. Those attending school should never feel that they haven't time to attend to some Church activities. The spiritual being needs nourishment just as much as does the physical. True education should give a rounded development. One is not really educated who neglects his physical and spiritual needs.
