[Vol22 | September 1935 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Article | Title: Teachers' Topic]

Teachers' Topic (For February, 1935)
"A soft answer turneth away wrath, But grievous words stir up anger." Prov. 15:1.
TO assume that life can go on with an even tenor of its days for any individual is a fallacy as we all know. In this proverb we have a formula for obtaining mastery over situations that might cause regrets and damage beyond repair.
'One hot word, one peevish reflection, one angry demand, one spiteful contradiction, begets another, and a third, and so on, till it proves like the cutting of a dam: when the water has got a little passage, it does itself widen the breach, bears down before it, and then there is no stopping it, no reducing it."
Why does a soft answer turn away wrath? Wrath is usually exhibited by loud harsh words or manners that are unseemly. To meet wrath with a soft word when harsh words were expected in return is to give the individual time to recover himself. Here again the element of contrast may be used to good advantage and the surprise of such a. Coping with the situation usually ends the disagreeableness and respect is engendered for those exercising self-control by refusing to be badgered into resentful words.
Christ has given us the high law of action: "And unto him that smiteth thee on the one cheek offer also the other." We might very well call the above proverb the "forerunner" to bring us to this higher law for if we cannot control our own tongue how then can we turn the other cheek? This proverb deals with the pressing necessity of the moment.. The Apostle Paul goes a little farther in his epistle to the Ephesians when he admonished them saying: "Let not the sun go down upon your wrath. * * * Let no corrupt communication proceed out of your mouth."
The applicability of this proverb is universal. The mother, the father, the husband, the wife, the teacher, the student, find this an equally valuable code of conduct in their relationships. Angelo Patri, the famous child authority, has said that the surest way to catch the attention of an angry, clamoring child is to answer its loudness with a mildness of speech and a softness of voice.
Browning in his poem, "A Wom-
an's Last Word," describes a man and wife quarreling, and the wife (a very wise woman) stops the dispute with a word not of anger, but of reconciliation. She says it is fatal for you and me, who have every reason for living together to become so absorbed in our quarrel that we lose Paradise.
"Let's contend no more, Love, Strive nor weep; All be as before, "Love, ?Only sleep.
"What so wild as words are? I and thou In debate, as birds are, Hawk on bough!
"See the creature stalking While we speak! Hush and hide the talking, Cheek on cheek.
"What so false as truth is, False to thee? Where the serpent's tooth is, Shun the tree?
"Where the apple reddens, Never pry? Lest we lose our Edens, Eve and I."
To meet the fire of wrathful words with the self-control extinguisher of soft answers?here is wisdom for all.
1. Discuss in connection with this proverb the proverb: "The beginning of strife is as when one letteth out water; Therefore leave off contention before it rolleth onward."
Handwork Department
"Be it ever so humble, there's no place like home."
THE Work and Business program is not only to help the needy but to teach how to improve and beautify the home. Handicraft for Everywoman is full of ideas and suggestions for home decoration and improvement. Stake or ward leaders should use it to make plans for the handicraft section. See last paragraph in "Foreword" by President Robison. At the first meeting introduce it with so much enthusiasm that "everywoman everywhere" must have a book. Read the Foreword to the members, also part of Acknowledgments emphasizing third paragraph. Summarize "Contents." Use any good method your prolific minds suggest to do the work. Questions and suggestions are welcomed by the General Board.
Suggestive Study on Consumer Problems
THE changes that have occurred in general economic conditions since 1929 have forced drastic readjustments of all kinds. As a result business is struggling along attempting to find its way to a new basis. Likewise consumption has greatly changed and consumers are gradually working their way towards new standards on stable grounds.
Consumer interests are as broad as their desires from the penny article to the more expensive tapestry or painting. How to get the most satisfaction for these desires and human needs as food, clothing, health, recreation, investments, and other things according to the income and
standards of the family is the big problem of consumption.
The aim of these discussions is:
1. To make women consumer-conscious.
2. To urge housewives to become intelligent buyers.
3. To aid in better cooperation with local grocers and markets it is to help educate the consumer in problems vital in increasing the purchasing power beyond their own every-day needs.
The majority of people are trying to make ends meet, but when confronted with the problem of readjustment to lower standards, these efforts and trends toward better economic conditions will need be supplemented by careful study in consumption. The household buyer must balance her own needs against her purchasing power in terms of merchandise within her own possibilities. She needs to know her marketing problems and if she would be a better buyer she needs to consider her present buying custom, such as:
1. Box, package, sack, can, or small, medium and large, rather than weight or measure, are terms used to describe quantities of goods bought.
2. Little attention is paid to name of producer.
3. Labels on packaged or canned goods not read.
4. Does not ask for brands.
5. Does not look for forms or composition.
6. Relies too much on advice of clerks and salesmen.
7. Influenced by flowery advertising.
8. Acts too much on judgment of friends.
Questions
1. Define consumption.
2. Differentiate between consumers and producers when discussing these problems.
3. What percentage of household buying is done by women.
4. What in your opinion are some of the difficulties involved in household buying.
5. Why have consumer problems been slow to receive public attention as far as government policy is concerned.
6. Discuss the buying habits of the women in your community.
References
Bureau of