[Vol22 | September 1935 | Sequence: 27 | Category: Article | Title: Home Economics]

Home Economics Ass., Baltimore, Md. Government Bulletins. Bulletins and Leaflets from local High Schools and Colleges.
Literature (For Third Week in February)
ADVENTURES IN READING
BOOK FRIENDS
"Come, my best friends, my books! And lead me on."?Cowley.
MEN and Women of Bookland?what a delectable company! Characters made not born, the creation of a poet's brain. Linking men to men, nation to nation, century to century they have become monuments to the creator of Man.
Friends and companions of Man, he summons you at will to do his bidding, to jest and smile with him, to push back far horizons, renew a vision of beauty, to whisper a message of hope. By man for man you were made, from man to man you go, "The choir invisible whose music is the gladness of the world."
Book Friends
To create a character and send it down the ages to be a friend to man of all climes and conditions is the work of a master artist spirit. Literature has a gallery of men and women of such variety and humanity that to know them makes "The whole world kin." No nation is foreign when we may become a bookland visitor at will. Book people are world citizens.
As the years pass, the friends of the reader form a goodly company. No two companies, however, will be alike. In some lists of book friends, Horace, Omar Khayyam, Carlyle, Goethe will find a place; in others Ibsen, Stevenson, Dr. Johnson will be favorites. But to all the world the great characters of literature are friends, among the most-loved characters are the universal favorites: Ulysses in Homer's "Iliad" and especially in his "Odyssey," King Arthur in Malory's "Morte D'Arthur" and Tennyson's "Idyls of the King," Beatrice in Dante's "Divine Comedy," Don Quixote in Cervantes' "Don Quixote," Falstaff in Shakespeare's "Henry IV" (Parts I and II) and "Merry Wives of Windsor," Hamlet in Shakespeare's "Hamlet, Prince of
Denmark," Robinson Crusoe in Daniel Defoe's "Robinson Crusoe," Faust in Goethe's "Faust," Leatherstocking in James Fennimore Cooper's "Leather Stocking Tales," Pippa in Robert Browning's "Pippa Passes," Becky Sharp in Thackeray's "Vanity Fair," David Copperfield in Dickens' "David Copperfield," Silas Marner in George Eliot's "Silas Marner," Jean Valjean in Victor Hugo's "Les Miserables," and Uncle Remus in Joel Chandler Harris' "Uncle Remus: His Songs and His Sayings," and "Nights with Uncle Remus."
They call to us these book friends, to laugh with them, love with them, and dream with them.
"Men and Women" ? Robert Browning
Robert Browning, Victorian contemporary of Alfred Tennyson, analyzed and interpreted the complexities of human life. Whether he was writing drama or dramatic monologues, the literary form which he largely perfected and popularized, his chief interest was the "History of Souls." The student of the life of Browning is struck with its consistency, its robust courage, and its joy of living. Browning through life was a theist?"God's in his heaven, all's well with the world" was his creed. Life to him was a period of probation and it was man's duty to "Hold on hope hard, in the subtle thing That's spirit: though cloistered fast soul free."
The poet's doctrine of individualism is the key to his message. Few men have remained as true to their purpose as Robert Browning. In fifty-seven years of creative labor,
"Italy was his second country, The Alps, Appenines, the blue waters of the Mediterranean, every pine forest, church, palace, town-hall, painting or marketplace, every great life that had honored, admired or made romantic Italy, the great mother of beauty was his inspiration." All that he met and remembered was woven into lyric or narrative or drama in his heart. His best and finest work, "Men and Women" chiefly dramatic monologues is one of the notable achievements of English poetry. No other writer has so effectively used his imaginative ability to create representations where the mental characters of individuals are revealed by themselves as Browning has done in his dramatic monologues. The poet's purpose was not only to portray individuals, but to present the characteristics of an age, a type of people, a religion, or an emotion. For his situations he searched the annals of humanity, history, and literature, for his inspiration he mingled freely in the world of men and women.
The drama was the first literary form used by Browning for his literary expression, but this was a mistake. The stage only reveals characters in action. Therefore, the plays "Paracelsus," "Strafford," "The Return of the Druses," and others were failures, because they were silent dramas of the mind and heart of man. It was necessary then for the poet to find a new literary form for his great purpose:
"For a nobler stage the soul itself Its shifting fancies and celestial lights, With all its grand orchestral silences To keep the pauses of the rhythmic sounds."
The scenery is laid in the chambers of thought, his persons are feelings, his situations are emotions, his crises and catastrophies are moods. The new form originated for this great expression was the dramatic monologue. Mrs. Orr in her excellent work, "The Handbook to Browning," states, "These monologues in which the human spirit is represented as communing with itself, contains some of the poet's noblest dramatic work."
In the last poem written, the poet gives a faithful analysis of himself:
"One who never turned his back but marched breast forward, Never doubted clouds would break Never dreamed, though right were worsted, wrong would triumph, Held we fall to rise, are baffled to fight better. Sleep to wake."
Pippa, the Silk-Winder of Asolo
One of the most valuable legacies left to the world by Browning is the spirit of good cheer found in Pippa's song, "God's in his heaven;" it is the epitome of the poet's philosophy of life. "Pippa Passes," a drama for reading, published in 1849, won for Browning his first public recognition. The poem is a lyrical soliloquy and the dramatic element is introduced by dialogue throughout the four acts. The action represents the course of one day? "Morning," "Noon," "Evening," and "Night," the four acts. The occasion?Pippa, the girl from the silk-mills of Asolo, has a holiday, it is New Year's Day. Pippa resolves as she springs out of bed this first day of the year, to make it an inspiration for the whole year. Her plan is to impersonate the happiest persons in Asolo. Ottima and Se-
bald, happy lovers, shall have the morning; Jules and Phene, the bride and bridegroom, shall have the noonday; Luigi and his mother, contented and peaceful, shall have the evening; and Monsignor, a holy man of God, shall have the night.
Ottima and Sebald have murdered the husband, and Ottima is trying to silence the remorse of her lover, showing no sorrow for the murder of her husband. She has succeeded in dulling his conscience till Pippa passes singing her song?
"God's in his heaven? All's right with the world."
and their hearts are softened to seek an end to their wickedness.
Jules, the gifted young sculptor, has been cheated in his wife. He thought her cultured and refined, but he finds her an ignorant girl. At first he is angry but later realizing his moral responsibility, decides to give her all the money he can spare and let her go. He is just doing so when Pippa passes singing her song. His conscience awakens and he decides to keep his wife and educate her soul.
Luigi and his mother are in their turret. He believes his mission is to kill the Austrian Emperor. His mother is pleading with him, using the lover Chiara as a plea. The mother has almost succeeded when Pippa passes singing of a great and just king of days gone by. Luigi renews his courage to crush tyranny in the form of the Emperor. He goes out to perform his mission missing the police who were awaiting him.
The dusk awakens into night as Pippa approaches the Duomo St. Aria. Some girls are sitting on the steps exchanging wishes as they watch for Pippa, to lure her into conversation. Monsignor is planning Pippa's destruction. She is the child
of his brother and stands between him and the wealth he is enjoying. Everything has been arranged for the girl's disappearance when, unrecognized, she passes singing of her childhood and her trust in God. Something in her song stings the conscience of Monsignor and the plan is abandoned. Pippa goes home at the end of the only holiday of the year, unconscious of the power of good she has wielded by the suggestions of her simple songs.
The poem is unique in form and conception, the language musical and dramatic, and the message of universal appeal. The poet, Browning, acknowledges his personal preference for this poem.
Charles Dickens, Novelist
To know the life of Charles Dickens, of his home life, of the environments of his youth, and when famous, of his unhappy wedded life, gives the reader of his works a deeper admiration than he had before. Charles Dickens, one of the most popular novelists of the nineteenth century and one of the greatest humorists that England has produced, was born at Sandport, a suburb of Chatham, February 7, 1812. John Dickens, the father of Charles, was employed as a clerk in the Navy Pay Office, Portsmouth. Thus the venerable chalk hills, the deep green lanes, woodland and marshes of Rochester and Chatham became in the words of Charles Dickens "the birthplace of his fancy." The very first number of "Pickwick Papers" describes the ancient yet homely Rochester, and it was at Chatham that poor little David Copperfield on his solitary tramp to Dover "slept his Sunday night's sleep near a cannon happy in the society of the sentry's footsteps." Dickens de-
scribes himself as a queer small boy, a not over particularly cared for boy. After his mother had taught him to read and had sent Fanny, his sister, to a small private school. Charles was apprenticed to Mr. Creakle and Mr. Mell in "David Copperfield."
At the age of seventeen, Dickens secured employment as a reporter. He made himself the best reporter in the Gallery of the House of Commons. For his sister, Fanny, Dickens evinced the tenderest attachment and there are many unmistakable allusions in his works. "My sister George Stroughill, he reproduced as Steerforth in "David Copperfield."
One of the two great passions of the childhood Charles Dickens was his devotion to books. "The pleasant days came to an end when the family returned to London, and in the darkest period of the family went to the Marshalsea Prison. In December, 1833, the Monthly Magazine published a sketch Dickens had been found and passed in March, 1836, with the first Publication of ?Pickwick papers.? There is none like the writings of Dickens for unflagging and never unwise merriment. If there is nothing so humorous in "Pickwick Papers" as Sam Weller ,there is nothing so pathetic in it as the relation between him and his master. During the years of literary fame in prison, Dickens resided chiefly in London. "David Copperfield," I Dickens visited America, where he received an enthusiastic welcome. ?American Notes" and ?Martin Chuzzlewit? are the poduct of this visit. The readers of Dickens admire his skill in telling a story and in painting portraits, his frolicsome humor and general kindliness and goodness of heart and his readiness to smite entrenched evil in the ho[pe of leaving a better world behind. Of the large gallery of portraits, those that will 586 linger in our memory are Mrs. Gamp, Fagin; Peggoty; the others have become universal types?Mr. Micawber, Mrs. Jellyby, Old Scrooge, Mr. Pechshiff, Uriah Heap. "David Copperfield" To Charles Dickens, "David Copperfield" was his favorite child. The story was in part his own story as it became "The Personal History of David Copperfield" imagination colored, experiences, smiles, and banished tears. In the opening chapters of the novel we see David and his pretty child-mother, Peggoty his nurse with her unexaggerated goodness; her needle-marked finger, and her red cheeks. The early visit of Peggoty's family was a great occasion to David. Yarmouth, the fishing port, became a veritable Aladdin's lamp to David's childish imagination. The romantic boat-house, its owner, Mr. Peggoty, a "bachelore;" its inmates, Ham, his nephew; little Emily, his niece; and Mrs. Gummidge, his old fishing partner's widow. It was a glorious two months. David returned home to find his home and mother in the hands of her new husband, Mr. Murdstone, and his sister, Jane, a grim thinlipped, metallic woman. The Murdstone passages are hard to read. David is disciplined by flogging and isolation in his room. Finally he is sent away to school. The school, its masters, and its pupils are vividly portrayed. The unscrupulous Mr. Creakle is a relief from the Murdstones. At Salem House tear-blotted copy books and whippings were his portion. David the lonely child, gave all his love and idolatry to a Jonathan, in a big, handsome, strong, kind boy, James Steerforth. To Tommy Traddles, another unfor


 tunate boy, David owed his enduring tenderness towards life. The death of David's "little mother" left him alone in the world save for Peggoty. He was sent to London to work in the wine factory of Murdstone and Grinby. Living with the Micawbers, life was a struggle with poverty. The immortal Micawber was always "waiting for something to turn up" to solve his problem. Mrs. Micawber did her best to help the family resources by keeping a school, a Boarding Establishment for Young Ladies. When the Micawbers were imprisoned for debt, David helped the family as long as he could. His own miserable condition was relieved when Nurse Peggoty sent him money to go to his aunt, Betsy Trotwood, at Dover. Robbed of his money, David trudged along, starved and weary. It was a ragged figure that came to Betsy Trotwood in her garden one morning. It was the beginning of a new life for David. Now known as Trotwood Copperfield life was a new type of adventure with a pair of delightful ec-. Centrics, Miss Trotwood and her loyal friend, Mr. Dick, as guardians. Later David was sent to school at Canterbury. Boarding at the home of Mr. Wickfield, the lawyer, David has for a companion, Agnes Wickfield, a girl of his own age. All his perplexities, hopes, and dreams, David poured out to Agnes. Upon the loss of Betsy Trotwood's fortune, David was forced again to go out into the world. This time he became a reporter of the Parliamentary debates; later he wrote for magazines. Then David met Dora, a diminutive frail little blossom of a woman. It was a tender meeting. Dora is a wonderful creation. The courtship, marriage, and death of Dora are affecting records of a child-wife, her LESSON DEPARTMENT little follies, her shortcomings, and her sweet lovableness. The story of James Steerforth is closely interwoven with that of David Copperfield. Steerforth had visited the boat-house of the Peggoty's at Yarmouth with Copperfield on one occasion. Guided by his own restless will and aided by his mother's wealth, Steerforth was lounging through life taking what he wished for his pleasure. After the death of Dora, David returned to Yarmouth for rest and quiet. Ham, a physical giant with the heart of a gentleman, loved Little Emily. The wedding was arranged, but Little Emily left before with: Steerforth. Peggoty went and found his little girl and brought her back. Years later David was visiting Yarmouth again. A storm was raging. Ham went to the aid of a sinking vessel. This storm took as its victims, Ham, the valiant sailor, and Steerforth, the human derelict. The characters are all at home again when the Micawbers return from Australia, financially secure. The perfidy of Uriah Heep, Mr. Wickfield's humble assistant, is discovered. Betsy Trotwood's fortune is recovered. Traddles is happy and successful. David marries Agnes. Life continues in serenity. To end "David Copperfield," the 587 about its author was said at the Dickens Centennary in London, 1912, by the Bishop of London: "Dickens' way of interesting people helped him immensely to find an interest in those people. Ah, if we only had his insight, we, too, would find something to care for, to love and to pity in every human being that lives." Guide to Preparation A. Suggested topics for Lesson Assigninents. 1. Book Friends. Personal reports by three members of books they consider friends. 2. The great characters of Literature. Select a few of the characters given in the lesson for brief reports. 3. Review: Pippa Passes. 4. Charles Dickens, Humanist. 5. David Copperfield and His Creator. 6. Reading: "The Bishop's Candlesticks from "Les Miserables."' Guide to Reading A. Take the great literary characters mentioned in the lesson and renew or make a new acquaintance with them. Tenderest,