Teachers' Topic for November Temple Work The Lord "will have all men to be saved." 1 Tim. 2:4. A. During this time of rejoicing and thanksgiving for the bounties of life, let us also rejoice in the great privilege of saving mankind through baptism and work for those who had not that opportunity for themselves. B. Give thanks and Praise to the Lord for the revealed knowledge of eternal life and salvation, "God's greatest gift to man." All in the State of Mind Dr. Croft If you think you are beaten, you are; If you think you dare not, you don't, If you like to win, and don't think you can, It's almost a chinch you won't. If you think you'll lose, you're lost, For out in the world we find Success begins with a fellow's will; It's all in the state of mind. @ Full many a race is lost Ere even a step is run, And many a coward fails Ere even his work is begun. Think big and your deeds will grow, Think small and you'll fall behind, Think that you can and you will? It's all in the state of mind. If you think you're outclassed, you are; You've got to think high to rise. You've got to be sure of yourself before You can ever win a prize. Life's battles don't always go To the stronger or faster man; But, sooner or later, the man who wins Ts the man who THINKS he CAN. ?Exchange.POUR, Mothers Know! Mothers know the value of helpful discipline. Doubtedly that's why the demand of the University of Utah for seriousmindedness on the part of its students is so widely appreciated. Young men and young women must work if they remain: at this great State School. UnWondrous opportunity for training is afforded! Almost every branch of learning may be followed here. Mothers will appreciate especially the Home Economics department under the able direction of Prof, Rose Homer Widtsoe. The School of Education is training the teachers of Utah. No examination of University graduates is required by the State for teacher certification. Your boys and girls will find a real opportunity for achievement at this institution. Arrange now for them to attend. REGISTRATION SEPT. 25-26-27 For additional Information address the President University of Utah SALT LAKE CITY USING THE SUGAR THERMOMETER Candy may be successfully made without a sugar thermometer, | but the use of the thermometer obviates the close watching that is otherwise necessary. The following table explains the terms used in candy making, together with the degrees on the thermometer. Thread stage, 220 to 225 degrees F., or when & thread hangs from the spoon, when it is lifted from the syrup. Soft Ball stage, 238 to 240 degrees F., or when a soft ball is formed when a little of the syrup is dropped in cold water. "Chewy Bali" stage, 250 to 252 degrees F., or when a fairly hard ball is formed when a little of the mixture is tried in cold water. Crack Stage, 290 to 300 degrees F., or when a little of the mixture rattles against the cup when tried in cold water., WHITE FONDANT 24 Ibs. Utah granulated sugar, or 1 1/2 cupfuls hot water.. 5 cupfuls. 2 teaspoonful cream of tartar. Put the ingredients into a smooth saucepan. Stir until dissolved, and heat gradually to boiling point. Boil without stirring until, when tried in cold water, a soft ball may be formed that will keep its shape. The temperature will be 238 degrees F. If the sugar adheres to the sides of the kettle, remove with a piece of wet cheesecloth. -Pour slowly onto a slightly-oiled slab, or a large platter, oiled. Let it stand for a few minutes to cool, or until when pressed with the finger a dent is left-on the surface, and yet no crust is formed.. If stirred while too hot, it will grain. If a crust forms, every particle must be taken off, or else the boiling must be done again. When it will dent, scrape the fondant together and work with a wooden spoon or spatula, until it is white and creamy. 'It will quickly change from this consistency, so begin kneading while it is still creamy, otherwise it will lump, and will be difficult to handle. Scrape the slab and knead the scrapings separately.. Do not mix the fondant unless it is perfectly free from lumps. Put it into a bowl, cover with oiled paper or a damp cloth and let stand twenty-four hours before using. Before using fondant for dipping it must be put over hot water and steamed, and it may be necessary to add a little hot water to allow for the evaporation which will take place while the fondant is being kept hot. Fondant may be kept an indefinite time, if closely covered with a damp cloth and then with a cover. ' QUICK FONDANT 2 egg whites. 24 cupfuls confectioner's Utah Flavoring. Sugar. Beat the whites slightly, and add the sifted sugar, a little at a time, until stiff enough to knead. Work in flavoring as desired. Then cover the hands and dredge the board with sugar, and form the candies in the shapes desired. CHRISTMAS LOAF 6 cupfuls Utah sugar. ~ ' 12 1/2 cupfuls cold water. 1-8 teaspoonfull cream of tartar.: Make a fondant of the above ingredients, divide it when done into three parts, flavoring one with almond and coloring it pale green, a second with cinnamon, leaving it white and the third with a square (ounce) of melted chocolate and a little vanilla extract. Only vegetable colorings should be used. Rub an oblong pan (bread tin) with olive oil and make on the bottom a design of holly with leaves cut from angelica and red candies. Gently press the white layer onto this, spreading it evenly, then press on the green and then the chocolate layer. Let stand twenty-four hours to stiffen, unmould and wrap in parraffine paper. There is no difference between refined BEET and refined CANE sugar. It has been tested by highly trained chemists with a most elaborate laboratory equipment and there has been found no distinction between BEET and CANE Sugar. It is the very best for candy-making. 4 Compare the Pages of Che Deseret News with those of any other paper. Notice that while the paper is clean and fit for any child to read it is also interesting and informative in the highest sense?And you get "TODAY'S NEWS TODAY" Individual Sacrament Sets Now in Stock BEST IN THE MARKET WILL LAST A LIFE TIME 
 REFERENCES FURNISHED Made especially for L. D. S. Churches, and successfully used in Utah and Intermountain region, also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific Islands. Basic metal, Nickel Silver, heavily plated with Solid Silver. SIMPLE, SANITARY, DURABLE Satisfaction guaranteed Inquiries cheerfully answered THE LATEST ACKNOWLEDGMENT Bishop's Office, Bern, Idaho, May 2, 1921. "I am in receipt of the Individual Sacrament Set, consisting of four trays and the proper number of glasses. "Everything arrived in good condition, We are very pleased with it. I take this occasion to thank you for your kindness." BUREAU OF INFORMATION Temple Block Salt Lake City  Glazier and Taylor HOSIERY COMPANY 33 EAST BROADWAY A Store Dealing in Quality Hosiery and Underwear Exclusively Heavy Silk Full-Fashioned, all colors A wonderful hose for wear Per Pair... 2.00 Box of Three Pairs $5.75 Silk Semi-Fashioned, all colors, beautiful and durable Per Pair $1.50 Box of Three Pairs.. $4.25 Silk with Extra Stretch Elastic Top, the Comfort Stocking Fer Pair $1.50 Box of Three Pairs $4.25 Pure Silk, Semi-Fashioned, very durable All Colors, Per Pair $1.00 Box of Three Pairs $2.85 MAIL ORDERS PREPAID Jj By Mrs. J. Long, AA Book of 'Poems "The Beautiful Valley of Utah'' 20c per copy. Eureka, Utah, Box 129. When ordering mention Relief Society Magazine. JJ i | @) Sheets of Fine Whiting Paper (Not more than 3 lines). 281?24th Street Regular Size $ | OO Envelopes. 5 0 Delivered postpaid to your home. Printed with your name and address in fine blue plate Gothic. Send Money with order. Write plainly. Universal Stationery Supply Co. OGDEN, UTAH A Pierce's Pork and Beans, always ready, insure a healthful and nourishing meal. Everlastingly backed by 'THE UTAH CANNING CO., OGDEN, UTAH ??y No Difference Between Refined Beet and Refined Cane Sugar The highly trained chemist with all his elaborate laboratory ? equipment is not able to distinguish between BEET and CANE Sugar. ? | BEET SUGAR produced in Utah and Idaho is of the highest developed refined process, which removes all impurities and yields an unexcelled quality of pure, white, fine, clean BEET SUGAR.. BEET SUGAR can be used for all purposes with entire success. Kuropeans, with a reputation for making the finest of preserves and confections, prefer BEET SUGAR. Keep your money in circulation at home. Patronize a great HOME INDUSTRY?one that gives employment to thousands and insures a profitable crop for the farmers. ' BUY BEET SUGAR S JITIAYAINAD AIHILIM WM  SCOWCROFT Pp ai S the use of which you | put Olive Oil an exacting requirement of purity? ? Then look for the Blue Pine label. It is your protection, your assurance that the container holds the finest grade of Olive Oil produced. Made from only. Ripened French Olives. It is sweet, rich in food content and pure. Always ask for Blue Pine Olive Oil. Other BLUE PINE products Mention Relief Society Magazine