EDITORIAL  Motto?Charity Never Faileth  RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor+ Clarissa Smith WILLIAMS Associate Editor -: - - - - - - ALICE Louise REYNOLDS Business Manager - -. - - - Jeanette A. Hype Assistant Manager - - Amy Bsown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. XI. SEPTEMBER, 1924. ?S_? No. 9 Another Centenary---September, 1824-1924 The approach of the 21st of September, 1924, marks the visit of the angel Moroni a year after his first appearance to the boy prophet, Joseph Smith. On the occasion of his first visit he told Joseph that he would come each year and give him instructions. This practice was to be followed until the plates were delivered to him. 'Any reference to the Book of Mormon is apt to bring to mind a flood of memories and experiences in relation to the book. Last year we published a group of testimonies growing out of contact and familiarity with the book; this year we have in mind a similar experience to those we related last year, which we shail place in the editorial column. Some two 'years ago we were engaged in purchasing books from a man by the name of Otto Tooney. We found that he had made a very large collection of "Mormon" books now out of print; a collection so valuable that both the University of Chicago and the University of California had offered to buy it. Because these books were, in the main, old and rare, we fancied he had been in the-Church a good many years. We were fairly startled when he told us that he knew nothing of the Latter-day Saint faith, until 1907, and then followed this story: Said he, "I was working with a young man who belonged EDITORIAL 457 to the 'Mormon' church. Being in an antagonistic state of mind, I provoked an argument. I was determined to get the better of my co-laborer, because I was satisfied in my-own mind that his faith was not a very worth while faith. During our discussion, the young man quoted the Book of Mormon continuously. In order to be able to refute what he said in relation to the Book and its teachings, I read it; but, to employ an old adage, I came to scoff and remained to pray. By the time I had finished reading the Book, I was convinced in my soul that it was the word of God; consequently I relinquished all thought of returning to the place _ of my birth in the state of Colorado, cast my lot with the Latter-day Saints and am numbered with that people. "I am a living witness of the truth of Moroni's statement, found in the tenth chapter and. Fourth paragraph: 'And when ye shall receive these things, I would exhort you that ye would ask God, the eternal Father, in the name of Christ, if these things are not true; and if ye shall ask with a sincere heart, with real intent, having faith in Christ, he will manifest the truth of it unto you, by the power of the Holy Ghost.' " Elizabeth Claridge" McCune