VOL. 17	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 15, 1889.	No. 20.


MRS. CLEVELAND.

Her reign was o’er, but old and young
Prayed blessings on her as she passed,
And every heart and every tongue
Spake, “ne’er was she surpassed.”

Her gracious smile, with smiles obeyed,
Her dignity by naught abused;
These are the scepters she has swayed,
The only power she used.

What greater are there! none more sure
To rule the hearts of other men,
And these she held, and no heart truer
Will hold such sway again.

Her reign passed by in merry dearth
Of sadnes, and her written fame;
Must live as long as woman’s worth
Gives grace to woman’s name.

For love full well of high and low,
With smiling lips and graceful mien.
She stepped from her white portico
Uncrowned, but still a queen! 
“Judge.”	L. MORGAN SMITH.


GOLDEN WEDDING.
"Hear the mellow wedding bells—
Golden bells.”

Ring soft and sweet—O golden bell—
Ring pure and strong—O golden bell,
Now rise, now fall, the chorus swell,
The precious story tell, ah, tell,
How fifty years have flown away,
Since Pallas’ happy wedding day!
Adown the years, far, far away—
A sweet girl-bride, and grown so gray,
see them plainly, as you say,
				O golden bell!

A home so cosy, snug and neat,
I see, I see,
I hear a patter of childish feet,
And baby voices calling sweet,
And full of glee.
The happy chorus rises, swells,
To bursting with the joy it tells,
O, golden bells.

As your swaying tongue goes to and fro,
I watch the years, they come and go—
They bring their joy and bring their woe;
For all must know the ebb and flow
Of grief and pleasure, here below.
Like mists upon the mountains height,
A rain of tears obscures the sight;
'Twas here a precious hope, saw blight,
The veil hung dark as inky night.
Where mists of tears their hopes bewail
Ring visions of the “holy Grail,”
That brings redemption, rends the veil,
Ring Christ’s promise, that will not fail,
O, golden bell.

Now as you back and forward swing.
Sweet bells, what visions pure you bring.
Upon her hand, I see a ring
Worn to a tiny golden string;
Two heads so white with winter’s rime.
Two hearts, true, as in life’s spring time;
Such love doth mark their lives sublime,
And well deserves a gladsome chime 
Of golden bells.

Swing soft and low, ye bells of gold
The story ever new, the old.
The dear sweet story, is almost told,
How true love never shall grow cold
Though mortal heart be dust and mold.
Immortal born its home’s above
For God is love, yes, God is love
Ring happy bells!


Lovingly inscribed to my Aunt and Uncle on the 50th
anniversary of their wedding day.
	Woodina, Feb. 21, 1889.


[For the EXPONENT.]
	SOME OF THE BEST AUTHORS.

	The universality with which the best authors
are conceded their position in English litera-
ture, should at once quell any controversy
in the matter, and yet opinions, tastes and cul-
ture differ, and a writer thoroughly loved and
admired by one reader, may be considered in-
sipid, sickly sentimental, by another. Truly
one is led to exclaim, “Oh, poetry! what license
has been taken in thy name,” when reading
some of the trash that floats around in our
literary age. If quantity were a standard of
poetry and literature, we could not fail to be- 
come thoroughly well read, but, thank fate, it
is not quantity, but quality that makes the
poet. It is to be feared that the former has
the precedence at present. Let us hope that the
strength and originality of the older poets is not
forever lost. But I did not intend to berate our
age, our customs, or our effeminacy, our self-con-
ceit, or the glory of our wonderful nineteenth
century; “they who live in homes of glass should
never throw a stone,” and it suddenly occurred
to us that ours was very thin and brittle !
	About two years ago one of our best Ameri-
can writers, Mr. Maurice Thompson, of Ohio,
had the temerity to publish an article on the
subject of Shakespeare, somewhat deprecia-
tory of the exalted throne upon which the
much applauded dramatist was seated. Actu-
ally depreciatory, but, to the idea of this
unqualified reader, full of good, independent,
common sense. Mr. Thompson received what
he might have expected, a sound scoring by
one of your Shakespearian students, who re-
ceived it as a personal affront that his little
god was not held in the same estimation by
each individual of this little world as by him-
self. Mr. Thompson seemed to think that his
"glasshouse” was completely broken, and
actually thanked the kind friend who had
performed for him the task of giving him the
“giftie” to “see himsel as ithers” saw him.
This would have been all right, but somehow
we could never get over the idea that Maurice
Thompson had taken hold of the right handle.
We never could see any reason for being
ashamed to confess to a depreciative feeling
for the monarch of the drama.
	God speed the day when at least many of
the sayings of Shakespeare, the great English
dramatist, will be forever lost in the light of
modern civilization ! It is surely, at least, one-
sided to study Shakespeare, quote Shakespeare,
act and worship Shakespeare to the exclusion
of everything else, But, there ! we confess to
being a very incompetent critic. Perhaps our
little world is so remote from the sun as to re-
ceive its light but as a faint star.
	Let us, then, descend from the discussion of
a subject too remote and high for our under-
standing, for truly the erudite give us some
interpretations of their favorite poet, that are
too intricate for the understanding of mere
ordinary minds.
	Some time ago we came across the following
little poem, better suited to our taste and un-
derstanding than the magnificent periods of
the greater writer. It was written by the
sweet English lady, Mrs. Hemans, and surely
deserves a high rank in a collection of the
best English literature:


TO THE BLUE ANEMONE.
		Flower of starry clearness bright,
		Quivering urn of color’d light,
		Hast thou drawn thy cup’s rich dye
		From the intenseness of the sky?
		From a long, long fervent gaze
		Through the year’s first golden days;
		Up that blue and silent deep,
		Where, like things of sculptured sleep,
		Alabaster clouds repose
		Witb the sunshine on their snows?
		Thither was thy heart’s love turning,
		Like a censer ever burning,
		Till the purple Heavens in thee,
		Set their smile, Anemone?

		Or can those warm tints be caught
		Each from some quick glow of thought?
		So much of bright soul there seems
		In thy bendings and thy gleams,
		So much thy sweet life resembles
		That which feels and weeps and trembles,
		I could deem thee spirit fill’d,
		As a reed by music thrilled,
		When thy being I behold
		To each loving breath unfold,
		Or like woman’s willowy form,
		Shrink before the gathering storm, 	
		I could ask a voice from thee,
		Delicate Anemone !

		Flower ! the laurel still may shed
		Brightness 'round the victor’s head,
		And the rose in beauty’s hair
		Still its festal glory wear,
		And the willow leaves droop o’er
		Brows which love sustains no more:
		But by living rays refined,	
		Thou, the trembler of the wind,
		Thou, the spiritual flower,
		Sentient of each breeze and shower,
		Thou, rejoicing in the skies,
		And transpierced with all their dyes:
		Breathing rare,with light o’er-flowing,
		Gemlike to thy centre glowing,
		Thou the poet’s type shall be,
		Flower of soul, Anemone !
	We were about to quote another of Mrs.
Heman’s beautiful poems, but were caught in
a labyrinth of lovely things, so exquisite, that
to make a choice were a difficult matter. “Our
Daily Paths,” “Kindred Hearts,” “The Dial
of Flowers,” “Despondency and Aspiration,”
“The Invocation,” “The Hour of Prayer,” and
many others are more than favorites. Every
true lover of poetry should have a copy of Mrs.
Hemans, which can be obtained of John B.
Alden,393 Pearl St. N. Y., beautifully bound in
half Russia,marbled edges,post paid,sixty cents.
	We will close this article with another quota-
tion from this favorite author:
	Forgive, O Father ! if presumptuous thought
		Too daringly in aspiration rise !
	Let not thy child all vainly have been taught
		By weakness, and by wonderings, and by sighs
	Of sad confession! lowly be my heart,
		And on its penitential altar spread
	The offerings worthless, till thy grace impart 
		The fire from Heaven, whose touch alone can shed
	Life, radiance, virtue ! let that vitat spark
	Pierce my whole being, wildered else and dark !
	Thine are all holy things—O, make me Thine,
	So shall I too be pure—a living shrine
	Unto that spirit, which goes forth from Thee,
	Strong and divinely free.
	Bearing thy gifts of wisdom on its flight,
	And brooding o’er them with a dove-like wing,
	Till thought, word, song, to thee in worship spring,
	Immortally endowed for liberty and light.”—
				Despondency and Aspiration.
							BIRDIE CLYDE.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
﻿YOUNG WRITERS.

“He that writes,
Or makes a feast, more certainly invites
His judges than his friends; there’s not a guest
But will find something wanting, or ill-drest.”
	
	There is perhaps not a class of people in the
world who are more severely criticized than
writers; and I was about to say, they are the
most sensitive, and suffer most under it; that
may be wrong, however I do not assert it as 
positive.  We hear remarks occasionally some-
thing like these: “There are too many books;”
“There are too many scriblers who fancy they
can write, who push their works upon the pub-
lic;” “The world is full of them, we don’t
want so much rhyming and scribbling, we
want real poetry and prose, worth careful
reading;” “We want depth of thought and
sentiment, and eloquent and brilliant expres-
sion; not so many common place writers.” All
this is very discouraging to the young, to the
beginner, who must first try his skill and
strength in the path of literature; I know some
will say that one should keep the first efforts to 
themselves, but the writer is not a good critic,
he cannot possibly judge, without prejudice in
favor of his own work; of course he should
revise, correct and re-write, but some one else
must be the judge.  The world is not made up 
of geniuses, in fact they are very few, and
those few are often in need of a balance.  If
only literary geniuses produced books and 
writings, the world would be scantily provided
with literature; great writers are about as
scarce as great singers, and what should we do
in all our little villages, in all our homes, our
schools, and our churches, if people refused to
sing because some one had succeeded in achiev-
ing a great musical triumph, and possessed a 
voice like a nightingale, and had set the world
in a furore; if such were the case the world
would not be so full of music as it is, and
many a sad heart would lack the sweet consola-
tion and healing balm that comes through the
soothing influence of song; it is a blessed thing,
to be able to sing, or play on a musical instru-
ment.  It gives relief to the feelings, and
voice and expression to the holiest emotions
of the soul; then let us encourage all that
which elevates and purifies; and whatever
opens up avenues for the exalted emotions of
the human soul, tends to fuller development of
the inner life and promotes that higher culture,
which is a step in advancement towards the ex-
altation we all desire to attain.
	Instead of discouraging those who have a 
desire to write, even though their efforts are
poor, rather stimulate them to greater dili-
gence, and more presistent effort, in cultivating
the talent with which they have been endowed,
or in pouring forth the song which is welling 
up in the soul.  We have not too many writers,
nor too many books in my humble opinion.
We had far better pay out more money for
books and reading matter, and less for many
other things not so useful or pleasant in a 
home.  I hope to see the day when in every
home in the land, there will be a library of 
choice books and papers, suited to different
tastes, and also musical instruments, and other
attractions for a home that will elevate the
minds of the inmates and produce a higher
mental and spiritual atmosphere, and make 
mankind more godlike in intelligence, which is
said to be the glory of God, Himself. 
	How foolish it would be when one has a song
upon his lips not to pour it forth, because some
who are learned and able will criticise him
severely and unjustly; such a one is unjust to
himself, and is not making use of the talent
committed to his keeping, and will one day be
held accountable for hiding it.  He indeed
lacks fortitude, and needs encouragement from
those who are stronger or braver.  St. Paul
says, let those who are strong bear the burdens
[Column 2]
of those who are weak, and if we truly loved
one another we would be more willing to do
this;  but instead of such being the case,
many are ready to pull down and discourage
those who are using their best endeavors to
benefit the world of mankind, and often crush
the one who is struggling against difficulties,
when they might reach out and help him; a
little influence to support one in making an
earnest effort to develope his gifts is most
welcome, and the gratitude of the receiver is
ample recompense, for it is always more blessed
to give than to receive.
	I know it is said true genius will surmount
every difficulty and rise triumphantly in the 
greatest emergency, but unless the genius has
an indomitable will, or destiny has given him
a particular mission to fill, such will not of
necessity be the case; most geniuses have had
patrons, men or women of influence, who have
brought them forward, for true merit is modest
and retiring, besides, geniuses are rare—they
are like precious diamonds—but there are a 
quantity of other gems, and people with one
talent or two are much more common in this
world than those gifted with ten.
	Every human soul wants some development
mentally, and one day we shall become more
fully alive to this truth.  In the Gospel there 
is full scope for this development if it were un-
derstood.  There are many superior advantages
for the Latter-day Saints that will, when com-
prehended, more fully satisfy the yearnings of
the human soul. But I am anticipating, to come back to the
question under consideration in regard to writ-
ing and writers, we would say, never shrink
from a duty because there is another who can 
perform it better, let not your heart fail you
from writing a few lines because you are not
equal to Thackeray, or Carlyle, or George
Eliot, or George Sand, or Harriet Beecher
Stowe, but write in your own simple, unaffected,
unpretentious style, and who knows but many
people may be better pleased and more edified
than with some heavy article from the pen of a 
great writer.  We want variety, and origin-
ality is always more acceptable than affecta-
tion.
	Should a star refuse to shine because some 
other more brilliant casts a shadow over it—
it may be even the more lovely?  What if the
sparrow were to decline to sing because the 
robin's song was more admired.  Each one
may shine in his own way, it is not noble to
refuse to do what one has the ability and talent
to perform; but it is very ignoble to discourage
another in any pursuit or profession; we may
advise, if we think one has mistaken his call-
ing, and so be helpful to a friend.
	“Mormonism” is rich in themes for the pro-
duction of literature, and one may find subject
for rhyme, for poetry, for a variety of prose
works, for the drama, and for the most pro-
found writings; and though our home writers
may not be very highly esteemed at present,
and their works not so meritorious, yet those 
who desire to see Utah take an honorable place 
in the nation should encourage the author, and
help sustain literary labor. “Despise not the
day of small things,” when we see the blossom
it is significant of fruit; but the garden of 
literature wants great attention, careful culling,
weeding and pruning.  Our young people
should try to do their literary work well, and
not be offended if they are not successful in 
being recognized at first.
	One grave fault of inexperienced writers is
that they are fearful of revising and correcting
lest they lose the inspiration; they have an 
idea that poets are inspired, and themes
actually given them word for word, and that
any correction would detract from the genuine-
ness of its inspirationality.  The Lord has
given us our intellect—are we to make no use
of it?  Has he to put words in our mouths
[Column 3]
without our ever exerting ourselves. Cer-
tainly not.  He expects us to apply our
minds to gain knowledge and understand-
ing, and seek diligently after wisdom. Such
“a poem was given me,” you will hear one say.
It was certainly expected you would polish it 
then.  As well say the marble cut from the
quarry is the Lord’s work, and we shall mar
it if we attempt to shape or polish it.  I
would advise the young author to do his work
well, to review and revise, and let his friends
judge, and even then not be disappointed if
the publishers should return it to him.  Do
not feel that you can never write again because
your first manuscript was rejected; many of 
those who are now the best writers of the day
have had this experience.  Sing your song, it
will cheer and elevate yourself if no other,
and some poor lone one may listen and be
comforted thereby.  If you are not capable of
reaching the highest notes, make as much
melody as possible on the lower ones, and
leave the higher for more cultivated or daring
songsters; but be sure and sing; your heart
will be expanded by the notes you strike, and 
others may hear and be gladdened.
	The humble daisy blossoming by the way-
side cheers the weary traveler, and has as
many admirers as the gayest flower that
blooms in the garden; so it often is with the
homely writer, he blesses the lowly and the
humble; they comprehend and appreciate him;
his simple language is music to them and they
laugh at the critics, who deem his efforts a 
failure.  I rejoice to see progress in this direction
and I feel sure there might be much more were
some encouragement held out to stimulate young
writers.  If those who have means and influ-
ence would become patrons of literature, and 
draw out some of the talent that at present is
buried in obscurity, the community might be 
enriched, for there must from natural conse-
quences be a mine of wealth in the hearts and
minds of the young people born and reared
amidst these mountain vales. 
						AUNT EM.


A GENTILE'S TESTIMONY.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	In justice to my wife, I must write you a
few lines, which you may publish if you like.
	Sister Dubois has had a severe sickness
during the winter, and has been attended to by
the members of the Relief Society in particu-
lar, and by the good people of Santaquin
in general, with such tender care and attention
that she feels to express her gratitude and sin-
cere thanks to all those who assisted in, or ad-
ministered to her during her prostration.
	During the three months of her illness—
which was caused by a premature confinement
—she was for three weeks lying at the point of
death, and a good many of my neighbors, like
myself, thought that I was going to lose her,
and it seemed that nothing short of a miracle
could restore her to health.
	But she is a very good Saint, and a strong
believer in the gift of healing by the laying
on of hands by the Elders of her Church, and
as soon as the brethren had administered unto
her she whispered to me that she would get
well again some day. Thank God! she is at
present able to resume her duties again and
take care of her eight children.
	Poor unbeliever as I am. I almost envy her
her faith in the Gospel. It puts me in mind
of a great French writer, Chateaubiand, who
in his "Geni du Christianisme," portrays the
powerful influence the mind has on the consti-
tution.
		C. S. D. B.


London is to have police-matrons.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


AUNT CLARA.

And is she gone? that gentle soul,
	Passed to another sphere?
The rapturous joy which greets her there!
	The bitter sorrow here!

No purer spirit ever dwelt
	Within an earthly frame;
Her charity reached every heart—
	It sought the blind the lame.

Did she e'er laugh? I do not know,
	But ever on her face
There shone a lovely cheerfulness,
	That lent it heavenly grace.

Aye, she could weep. Such tender tears,
	For others' woes they fell;
So keen she felt your every smart,
	Her own forgot to tell.

Generous? Our part we gladly tell,
	The poor could tell the whole,
And kind? Her very presence was
	A benediction to the soul.

Rest in earth, sweet rest in heaven,
	So let our sorrow cease.
Her ways were ways of pleasantness,
	And all her words were Peace!

		SUSA YOUNG GATES.


[For the Exponent.]	
TO AMANDA. 

Sweet friend of my childhood, kind friend of my youth,
Firm guardian of virtue, bright lover of truth,
Thy sleep shall be peaceful, unbroken thy rest,
Thy spirit, disburdened, shall sleep on God's breast.

Oh, well we remember, sweet spirit, the light
God lent us a while ere it sank in the night—
In the night we call death; yet in vain do we see,
For the day-spring of glory envelopeth thee.

Oh, many may envy thy happier lot,
To die in thy beauty, to live unforgot
In the hearts of thy loved ones, who ever will shed
The tear of affection, rememb'ring thee dead. 

In songs with the angels thou taketh thy part,
The glory of Heaven now filleth thine heart.
Earth's woes now may languish, no more for thy brow
Shall they weave cruel thorns—thou art slumbering now.

The river of Heaven now laveth thy feet,
Fair angels shall twine thee a bridal wreath sweet,
And am'ranth immortla shall crown thy fair head
Oh, in heaven they deem thee not, dear one, as dead!

Sweet, sweet be thy slumber, unbroken thy rest,
Sleep, sweet as a babe, on the Savior's kind breast;
God grant we meet thee on Heaven's bright shore,
To part with thee, darling, in grief nevermore!

		RUBY LAMONT.
Beaver, Utah.


HE AND SHE.

TRANSLATED O. D. A. FROM DE GENESTET.

I once knew a wife and husband,
	An orthodox preacher was he;
He faithfully stuck to the doctrine;
	In little things faithful was she.

He had a well-known reputation
	Of piety—from his own kind;
Wherever she went she spread round her
	The bliss of a true, loving mind.

He knew every word of the Scriptures;
	She knew God her Father to be:
Theology was his chief science;
	God's child and God's image was she.

He criticised sermons and preachers,
	'Gainst heresy sharply he fought,
No weakness escaped his attention;
	She silently did what she ought.


His face had a rigid expression;
	She always content looked, and gay,
Religion his countenance darkened,
	And brightened hers all the long day.

He opened or shut out from heaven,
	As if heaven's keys he possessed;
She inwardly carried a heaven
	Of love and of peace in her breast.

In meetings for schools, or for missions,
	He spoke with great unction and verve;
She quietly, at her own fireside,
	Tried God and her neighbors to serve.

In speaking and thinking and preaching
	He had the cold doctrine alone;
In working and living and loving,
	A light in the darkness she shone.

I knew them, and thought it a pity
	That husband and wife were not "one;"
His strength and her rich love united,
	What prodigies they could have done!

		—Unity


[Column 1]

REMARKS ON TITHING BY A
SISTER.

	"They who are tithed shall not be burned,"
so saith the good book. Who are tithed that
they may escape? We read again, "The earth
shall be burned, and few men be left." A cer-
tain marshal has been appointed receiver of
the property of the Church of Jesus Christ of,
Latter-day Saints. This reminds me of an in-
scription placed oyer the body of our Savior.
What does this language imply? It is evident
to any reflecting mind that they who meddle
with such things will have to give an account
to Christ for taking that which was given ac-
cording to His word. He did by command-
ment require the Latter-day Saints to pay
tithing. And with willing hearts and hands
they comply and pay a tenth of their in-
crease.
	Now, dear Saints, do not falter, but pay the
best you have and the first. By doing this
you will receive a greater blessing. Malachi,
iii, 10: "Bring ye all the tithes into the store-
house, that there may be meat in mine house,
and prove me now herewith, saith the Lord of
hosts, if I will not open you the windows of
heaven, and pour you out a blessing, that
there shall not be room enough to receive it."
The people constitute the Church of Christ,
and they own the property. God will sustain
them in their rights. They gave it willingly
for the building up of God's kingdom, and did
not retain it to aggrandize themselves. The peo-
ple appointed honorable men by their voice, in
whom they put their trust and confidence, with
power to appropriate it for that purpose. This
is the kingdom that Daniel saw set up on the
earth in the last days, in the interpretation of
Nebuchednezzar's dream. Daniel ii, 44:
"And in the days of these kings shall the
God of heaven set up a kingdom, which shall
never be destroyed, and the kingdom shall not
be left to other people, but it shall break in
pieces and consume all these kingdoms, and it
shall stand forever." "There was a stone cut
out without hands, which smote the image and
became a great mountain, and filled the whole
earth." What was in the dream was to be in
the latter days, when there would be ten kings
to represent the ten toes of the great image.
We read that all things will be restored as at
the beginning. The word to the Latter-day
Saints is, "Keep my law of tithing, which
shall be a standing law to my people forever."
Doctrine and Covenants. St. John i: "In the
beginning was the Word, and the Word was
with God, and the Word was God." This the
Latter-day Saints believe, that they must live
by every word that proceedeth out of the
mouth of God. They believe the Bible to be
the word of God, that they should put works
with their faith. No one that is not a member

[Column 2]

of the Church of Christ has any right to use
or handle its effects, and they who do will be
in the same predicament as the enemies of the
Jews, when they took the ark of the covenant,
they were visited with God's judgments and
were glad to return it, as God would not suffer
it to be polluted, and the sacred things to be
destroyed which it contained.
	The ten commandments were preserved there-
in and handed down to us, one of them reads
thus: "Thou shalt not covet anything thy
neighbor hath." Yet what the Latter-day
Saints possess is coveted, their lands and
chattels, and are taken by a process of law
to suit their own partial conceptions. Why
are the learned lawyers and Congressmen so
tenacious about a few, that were expelled
from civilization and sacrificed all they had of
earthly possessions. What was their great
offense? They connected themselves with the
true Church of Christ, wherein is unity, from
the beginning in the Church of Christ we are
instructed and led by the spirit of prophecy,
which is the word of God and coming from
Him is in full force through His servants hold-
ing the eternal Priesthood, and their word will
have its fulfilment spoken by the power of the
Holy Ghost, knowledge comes through this
source to the people and they become one, and
except they are, Christ said, "They are not
His." What then are our opposers trying to
do? Disunite us, that we shall not be Christ's.
But we will with our voice and mind pay our
tithes and obey Him. Malachi: "Then they
that feared the Lord spoke often one to another;
and a book of remembrance was written before
him for them that feared the Lord, and that
thought upon his name."
	"And they shall be mine, saith the Lord of
hosts, in that day when I make up my jewels;
and I will spare them, as a man spareth his
own son that serveth him."
	"Then shall ye return, and discern between
the righteous and the wicked, between him
that serveth God and him that serveth him
not." Some think, that this was spoken only to
the house of Israel, but it was plainly to the
righteous, that thought upon the name of the
Lord. We read that all shall be rewarded
according to the deeds done in the body
whether good or evil, and all will be judged
out of the books written. No weapon formed
against Zion shall prosper. The pen that is
weilded to bear false witness, or make partial
laws for this people will fail and come to
naught. They are far reaching, does not the
Catholic church and other churches own enough
property to buy out the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints? They pay their minis-
ters big salaries, and rent their pews for a sum
of money which we cannot afford. The scrip-
tures say the Gospel is free to all mankind.
	St. John: "Saw an angel flying through the
midst of heaven, having the everlasting Gos-
pel to preach to every nation." Are the people
any more prepared to received it now, at this
time, than in the days of our Lord and Savior.
He will have his Gospel preached just the
same now as then. Who will receive it, in its
purity and fulness? The Latter-day Saints
who are pure in heart, and persecuted for the
truth's sake. A tithed people.
	M. A. M. PRATT.


There are 3000 women in charge of post-
offices in the United States.
	There are fifteen States in the Union where,
if the wife was unchaste at the time of mar-
raige, unknown to the husband, proof of the
fact entitles the husband to a divorce. There
is only one State (West Virginia) where, if the
husband was unchaste before marriage, un-
known to the wife, proof of the fact entitles
the wife to a divorce. Even in West Virginia
he must have been notoriously licentious.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	MARCH 15, 1889.


GENERAL CONFERENCE.

	The Fifty-ninth Annual Conference of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, will
commence at 10 o'clock on Saturday morning,
April 6th, 1889, in the Tabernacle, in Salt Lake
City.
	The officers and members of the Church are
cordially invited to attend.
		WILFORD WOODRUFF,
	In behalf of the Twelve Apostles.


[Column 1]

﻿THE NEW PRESIDENT.

	Benjamin Harrison, the new President who
has just been inaugurated, is a native of Indiana,
and grandson of the former president of the
same name and his great-grandfather was con-
spicuous during the Revolutionary war. This illus-
trious progenitor of the President was Speaker of
the House of Burgesses, of Virginia, in the early
period of the history of the United States, and
afterwards Delegate to the Continental Congress,
and elected Governor of Virginia three times. He
voted for the Declaration of Independence, and
it also bears his signature.
	His grandfather William Henry Harrison was
a distinguished military man, his successes in
that time were quite notable in history, he was
engaged in several historical conflicts. In the
war of 1812 "he had command of one of the three
divisions of the American army, the Army of the
North West." Harrison run for president against
Van Buren in 1836, and his popularity as a suit-
able leader of the people during that campaign
became so apparent that he was renominated in
1840.
	The writer well remembers the great enthus-
iasn that spread through the country at that time.
The novelty of the paraphernalia exhibited during
the electioneering has probably much to do with the
impressions made upon the populace and natur-
ally enough too; log houses in miniature and
barrels marked "hard cider," and pictures of the
same were displayed at every available time and
place. The songs were all of the same sort of
style and characteristic of the backwoods and
Indian battles. The ringing chorus of "Tippe-
canoe and Tyler too," has never quite died out
although nearly half a century has since elapsed.
	Notwithstanding the uncommon eclat that
ushered in the Harrison administration and the 
hopes entertained of the success of the Republi-
can party with him as its acknowledged leader—
the people were doomed to disappointment, for in
one month from the day of his innuguration, he
lay prostrate and lifeless, in the White House
whither he had gone only such a short time before
buoyant with hope, and amid the rejoicings of the
multitudes that throng the Capitol on these great

[Column 2]

occasions. It was thought with Daniel Webster
as Secretary of State, and an able Cabinet of
some of the wisest men of the age, the people had
a right to expect a brilliant term; but in this as in
many other instances, "man proposes and God
disposes."
	The father of the new President was the third
son of the one in whose honor so many camp fires
were built and stump speeches made in 1840,
strange to say, however, John Scott Harrison was
a Democrat in politics, and not at all ambitious for
office, although he was twice elected to Congress
from his district, and in 1861 nominated by the
Democratic State Convention for Lieutenant-Gov-
ernor of Ohio, but he declined the honor, a fact
which might seem questionable to the office-
seekers of to-day, were it not too well authenti-
cated. His second son was the newly-elected
President, Benjamin Harrison, who was born in
North Bend, Ohio, August 20, 1833.
	Mrs. Harrison, the present mistress of the
White House is a minister's daughter, the Rev.
John W. Scott, D. D., of Oxford, Ohio. Mr.
and Mrs. Harrison were married October 20,
1853, when the young man was only twenty
years of age, and his bride seventeen. They
had already been engaged two years. Soon
after their marriage they moved to Indiana-
polis, where they have ever since resided. Mrs.
Harrison is said to be "bright, well-read, accom-
plished, an artist, and in character dignified,
hearty and sympatheric." She has not allowed
herself to be outgrown by her husband intellec-
tually, but has kept up with him in those pursuits
that entitle her to rank by his side even at the
nation's capitol. She has had some practical ex-
perience in Washington society, having lived
there while her husband was in the Senate.
There can be no doubt in the minds of those who
have seen her portrait, of her strength of charac-
ter, and she will in all probability act her part
with grace and genuine attractiveness, doing
the honors of the Presidential Mansion as well at
least as any of her predecessors. It is "devoutly
to be hoped" that her life there with that of her
distinguished husband may be as happy as in their
own quiet home, and that the womanly sentiment
so strong in her home life, may not be without
its correspondingly beneficial effects upon the
affairs of the nation.


[Column 1]﻿

UTAH'S ADMISSION.

	Synopsis of the report by the Committee on
Territories, in relation to Utah being admitted
as a State into the Union.
	"It commences by setting forth the doctrine
that when Congress organizes a Territory and
provides a territorial government for the peo-
ple therein, it is with the implication that they
shall have a State Government, and it is
with this promise held out to them that
they occupy and develop the public domain,
and their right to a State government, cannot be
denied, when the proper conditions are fulfilled,
without bad faith on the part of Congress, unless
there are circumstances that relieve Congress
from a duty that would otherwise be imperative.
	"The conditions in Utah are then set forth and
the statements made by the gentlemen who ap-
peared before the committee in behalf of Utah's
admission are virtually adopted by the committee
as incontrovertible facts. The area, population,
products, manufactures, mining interests, schools,
churches, moral status of the people, finance of
the Territory, etc., are given with details and
statistics that are of great value in a public docu-
ment of this character, with the deduction that
the conditions exist which entitle Utah to admis-
sion as a State, and that it is of national import-
ance that Utah should have a State government."
	Then follows the objections whieh are, First,

[Column 2]

"The existence of polygamy," Second, "The
power and teachings of the "Mormon" Church
on that subject." Discussing these and sum-
ming the matter up it resolves itself in this form,
"whether a Territory will be excluded from the
Union for opinions entertained by a majority of
the people;" and also "the question whether
polygamy is by the Mormon Church made manda-
tory or permissive." The statements on both
sides are fairly presented in brief, and it is made
clear that the Utah Legislature never established
polygamy, and that the large majority of the people
have never practiced it."
	"The committee leave the dispute to the con-
sideration of the House, with the plain reference
that on a simple question of belief, Congress will
not attempt to decide, and that the members of a
society or sect ought to know better than their
opponents what their true belief is on any article
of their creed, also that this cannot well be made
a basis of legislation. That Congress would
hardly undertake to legislate in regard to a belief
that was avowed; certainly would not venture so
far as to act against or because of a belief that is
disputed."
	The provisions of the new Constitution for
Utah on this question are thus considered, and also
"the powers of Congress after admission." After
this and much more, than we have space to use at
the present, the document concludes with the
following:
	"Notwithstanding, and in view of the fact that
the present Congress is soon to expire and pro-
bably without opportunity on the part of the
House to consider this subject, your committee
deem it just to all parties concerned to present to
the House the condition of Utah as to population,
resources, development, schools, etc., and the
extent to which polygamy exists as above set
forth, together with the respective contentions as
to the doctrines of the 'Mormon' Church, and the
good faith of the 'Mormon' element in respect of
the offer to make polygamy a crime by a constitu-
tional provision, not repealable except with the
consent of Congress.
	"The indications are certainly very strong that
in the distant future, polygamy, in fact, will have
ceased to exist, and when that time arrives, if not
sooner admitted, the question will have to be met,
whether Congress will exclude Utah as a State
because a majority of the people are members of
the 'Mormon' Church.
	"Having thus presented the situation as dis-
closed at the hearing, the bill is reported back;
with the recommendation that it be placed on the
calendar for consideration and action thereon by
the House."
	From the report of this committee one would
naturally be led to the conclusion that Utah would
be admitted into the Union of States in the near
future. Great credit is due to the committee from
Utah who have labored so energetically to present
the claims of the Territory to the President and
to the Congress of the United States, and to the
Honorable Delegate whose views and opinions on
this subject have been so ably set forth.
	The people should not slacken their efforts
because the situation of affairs seems more propi-
tious, but still persist in the endeavor to obtain that
to which Utah is justly entitled. Perhaps after a
long series of importunities it may be, like the
story of the woman in Scripture, importuning the
unjust judge, who granted her prayer at last
because he was wearied by her persistency.


A VALUABLE BOOK.

	"The Life of Joseph Smith the Prophet," by
George Q. Cannon, is one of the books that
should be in the home of every Latter-day Saint.
Those who were acquainted with Joseph Smith
cannot fail but be impressed with a feeling of ad-
miration for the writer, who has more than forty


[Column 1]

years after his death, the power to call forth so
life like a pen picture of the prophet and his
work, performed many times under the most
difficult and embarrassing circumstances, and
very often of such a nature as would have wholly
discouraged one not under the direct inspiration
of the Almighty. To those who never had the
pleasure of a personal acquaintance with this re-
markably great man, it will be something of a
surprise, as well as a study, to read of his wonder-
ful endowments of character and the loftiness of
purpose, that carried him triumphantly through
such trying ordeals, requiring as it were, super-
human courage and wisdom. Who is there that
has embraced the Gospel revealed in this dispen-
sation, who is not deeply interested in knowing of
the personal and home life of the man chosen
and appointed to bring forth and establish the
Latter-day work?
	This the Author has given in a purity of style
and simplicity of language that cannot fail to be
appreciated by all lovers of good books. A
touching story eloquently told, yet with the con-
sciousness of truth apparent in every paragraph.
	The name of Joseph Smith is so dear to this
people, that, plain as it may seem to be to others,
it stands out as a headlight on the pages of
Church history, and whenever it is uttered it is
always in a voice that bespeaks reverence and
love. The writer well remembers the sweetness
of a voice now long hushed and silent, of one
intimately associated with Joseph Smith in his
life time, and with what a peculiar softness in her
mellifluous tones she always alluded to Presi-
dent Smith as "Joseph the Prophet," and so in-
deed he was, spiritual and prophetic in his nature
yet with those tender loving and emotional
characteristics that some men term womanly.
His love for his mother was mingled with a sub-
lime reverence that made it almost heavenly, and
his passionate love for children was one of the
positive proofs of his divine mission.
	Bro. Cannon has not failed in his delineation
of the life and works of this great prophet, seer
and revelator; and he deserves full credit for his
work as a biographer, but he himself, will no
doubt, acknowledge the grandeur of his theme as
an inspiration to this valuable historical produc-
tion. It is to the youth of Zion that this bi-
ography should appeal with a marvelous force,
inspiring them to take hold of the work com-
menced by the prophet of the last days and
assist in carrying it forward to its final completion
or the signal triumph of truth over error.
	The description the writer gives of the scenes
in Carthage jail are strikingly vivid; and pathetic
in the extreme. And when one remembers the
circumstances attending this period in Nauvoo,
the agony of the Saints when their leaders were
incarcerated in prison, and the horrors of the
day, when the direful tidings were brought home
and spread like wild-fire from house to house, all
the tragedy is renewed in the mind, and only sobs
and a torrent of tears can give relief to the emo-
tions, so susceptible in the hearts of the Latter-
day Saints who were the living witnesses to many
of the startling facts therein set forth. Those
were indeed days of darkness and severe trial.
How the people mourned for Joseph and Hyrum
so cruelly slain, can scarcely be realized by the
present generation. Their experience is altogether
a different one, and they know little of the sorrows
and drivings, the mobbings, or the privations
of the earlier Pilgrim Saints. But sufficient unto
the day is the evil thereof, and the present is
quite another phase of the history of this people.
Yet it is best that the rising generation should
know the difficulties that were encountered by
Joseph and his associates in laying the founda-
tion upon which they are expected to build.
	The book is handsomely bound, the paper is of
a very fine quality, leaves gilt-edged, and the
cover gilt lettered; type clear and large, and the

[Column 2]

outside appearance of the book altogother suitable
to adorn any drawing room table; it contains over
five hundred pages, divided into sixty-six chapters,
besides, the Preface—notes and appendix. The
table of contents is arranged in such a way that
it is easy to find quickly any particular item
wanted, and the author must necessarily feel a
good degree of satisfaction in his literary work.
It will recommend itself when examined and needs
no encomium of praise, beyond such notice as one
must give when perusing its pages carefully. The
price of the book is not high, and in all probability
the first edition will soon be disposed of. Tourists
who express so much curiosity concerning the
rise and progress of the Church would do well to
pnrchase this book, which will furnish them much
important data in regard to a movement which has
created such a furore in the world, and enlighten
their minds on subjects of which many of them
seem to be totally and woefully ignorant. It is a
book that will live in history and surpasses any
work of its kind in the richness, variety and origi-
ality of the subjects treated upon. The life of
the Prophet was crowded with startling episodes
marvelous events and tragic vicissitudes fol-
lowing each other in such rapid succession, that,
in reviewing it one can scarcely take in the whole
situation without re-reading and pondering it in
his mind over and over so much stranger it is than
fiction.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

EDITORIAL NOTES.

	TO-DAY the Y. L. M. I. A. of this Stake are
holding their conference in the Salt Lake Assem-
bly Hall. The Y. L. M. I. A. of Weber Stake
are holding conference in the Tabernacle in
Ogden City to-day.
	AT the Relief Society conference held in this
City yesterday, the house was filled to overflowing.
Interesting speeches were made by Prest. M.
Isabella Horne, Prest. Zina D. H. Young, Sisters
B. W. Smith, Susan S. Young, Prest, Mary A.
Freeze; and Sister Mary A. Clark of Farmington,
and other ladies. The subjects treated upon
were home manufacture, seri culture, the storing
of wheat, memberships for the Deseret Hospital,
and other matters of importance to the Society.
Prest. Horne read a letter from a missionary now
in England, asking her to use her influence to-
wards raising means to help a family of the
Latter-day Saints there,who are in very distressed
circumstances. The ladies generously contri-
buted the sum of fifty dollars at the afternoon
meeting of the same day.
	THE conference of the Relief Society held in
Ogden yesterday was well attended notwithstand-
ing the rain storm. On the platform were seated
a number of prominent ladies of the Junction
City, as also several Bishops. Prest. Jane S.
Richards presided with her usual quiet dignity:
the principal subjects treated upon were charity,
the importance of woman's position in the home
and in society, her influence for good and her just
rights as a citizen in reference to laws and gov-
ernment. Bishop Wallace of North Ogden made
an elegant and earnest appeal in behalf of woman's
privileges, and the audience listened with rapt
attention. Mrs Richards made some timely re-
marks at the close of the meeting; her words
were well chosen, and her voice and manner
calculated to make a deep and lasting impression.
Mrs. Richards has been for many years now, en-
gaged in benevolent work among the sisters in
Weber Stake and her labors have resulted bene-
fiically for all the Associations in that locality.
	On Saturday, afternoon, March 9th, the Utah
Woman Suffrage Association held a meeting in
the Social Hall in this City commencing at 2 p.m.
Mrs. Lydia D. Alder, first vice-President presided.
Prayer was offered by the Hon. H. J. Grant,
then followed the reading of the minutes, and a

[Column 2]

short but comprehensive speech by Mr. Grant,
on the subject of Woman Suffrage, rights, etc.
Mrs Emily S. Richards, the Utah delegate to the
Annual Convention of the N. W. S. A. at Wash-
ington, gave a synopsis of her work in the in-
terest of the women of Utah. Mrs. Richards
spoke in a clear and forcible manner, plainly
indicating that her heart was in her subject.
Mrs. E. S. Taylor and Dr. Romania B. Pratt
were the other speakers; and both gave evidence
of their ability to present the subject of Suffrage
for Women in a very able and impressive style.
The women of Utah are perfectly capable of
managing political associations, and it is earnestly
hoped that the efforts being made will result in
good and hasten the day, when the rights so un-
justly wrested from them may be restored. It is
expected a sort of convention will be held in
April, at which delegates from other parts of the
Territory will be in attendance.
	Miss Mary L. Booth editor of Harper's Bazar
who died March 5th, in New York City, was a
most remarkable woman, and filled a very impor-
tant position as editor of one of the most popular
journals of the day. Miss Booth has been a
translater of many valuable books from the French
and German. One of them has been highly
complimented  by some of the greatest writers of
our time. "Uprising of a Great People" trans-
lated during the civil war from Count de Gasparin's
was said by Charles Sumner to be worth a whole
phalanx in the cause of human freedom. "The
History of New York," written by Miss Booth,
has had a very large sale. Several copies of it
have been illustrated and one given her by an
eminent bibliopolist containing 2000 pictures, and
another in Chicago, having been enlarged to
twenty-two volumes. She was also, notwith.
standing her acknowledged literary merit and
proclivities, a charming woman, in her own home
in New York City, of which it has been said "it
is one of the most delightful places in the world."
this is a tribute every woman would be proud to
have bestowed upon her. Such women are
missed when they take their departure hence;
but fortunately for the age in which we are living
there are many women prepared to take up the
work where others leave off, and they will be the
better for such examples as those of Miss
Booth both in her public duties and her home life.


ANOTHER W. S. A.

	THE following notice appears in the Richfield
Advocate of March 6th; this indicates the energy
and progressive spirit of the ladies in that locality.
ED.
	A meeting will be held, at Relief Society Hall,
March, 14th, at 2 p.m., for the purpose of organiz-
ing a Woman Suffrage Association in Sevier Co.
All ladies are requested to attend, irrespective of
church or creed.
		ELIZABETH BEAN,
		JANE SPENCER,
		THURZY M. THURBER.


AN ADDITION TO REPORT.

	In the report of the Union proceedings o the
Executive Session of January 24th, the statement
concerning the chronology of the proposed Na-
tional American Society ought, in order to give
the understanding of the committee on the Union,
to read—As the two Societies were organized the
same year, and as the difference of chronology
results from a slight difference in the way of
naming the first annual meeting, it has been de-
cided that it will be true to the spirit of the
chronology of both Associations, to call the next
year's Convention the 22nd.
	Also, Miss Shaw and Miss Stone Blackwell
were present, not as technically representing the


American Committee on Union, except in the 
sense that they could have a fair idea what their 
Committee would be apt to accede to.—Rachel
Foster Avery, Sec. of N. W. S. A. Committee
on Union.
	Philadelphia, February 19, 1888.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

MARICOPA STAKE.

	The quarterly conference of this Stake, was
held in the M. I. Hall, December 20th, 1888.
E. G. MacDonald, presiding.
	After singing, and prayer by Counselor
Sarah E. Russell, the roll was called, and
minutes of previous conference read and ap-
proved.
	President MacDonald was pleased with again
having the privilege of meeting with the sisters
of this Stake, in conference. Thought this was
the last time she should have the opportunity
for some time at least. Wished their faith
and prayers, that we might have a joyful time
together, and all be benefitted.
	Reports were then called for from the
different branches, which were responded to
by President M. A. Hakes, of Zenos; Presi-
dent Lizzie MacDonald, Lehi; President Ann
Klimman, Almy; and President Susan Savage,
Papago branch. Their reports showed decided
improvement in the faithfulness of the mem-
bers, which was very gratifying and encourage-
ing to all those who have the welfare of Zion
at heart. The speakers being earnest and
spirited in the testimonies borne.
	President MacDonald was well pleased with
the reports, bore testimony to their truthful-
ness. As she had visited the various branches
since our last conference and found a good
spirit prevailing wherever she went. Spoke of
the important position which teachers held
in the society. They should have the spirit of
prayer in their hearts continually, that they
might know and understand the hearts of
those they visited, that they might be enabled
to impart such instruction as would be need-
ful and beneficial. The president and coun-
selors should meet with them and instruct
them, and encourage them in their duties.
	Sister MacDonald then said she would re-
sign her position as president, as she expected
to leave in a few days and join her husband in
Mexico. Spoke feelingly of the pleasant asso-
ciations she had formed with the sisters of this
Stake, should always remember it with plea-
sure; prayed that the spirit of inspiration
might rest upon all who desired to do right.
	President C. I. Robson, then followed with
a very interesting and instructive discourse,
showing the necessity for these organizations,
and clearly defining the duties of the mem-
bers; spoke concerning the teaching of our
children, said impressions are easily made
upon the minds of the young. We should
teach them to pray, prayer is the safeguard
against evil thoughts and desires; the officers
were set as watchmen upon the towers of Zion.
We should do away with hard feelings to-
wards each other, and learn to forgive, as we
would be forgiven. Expressed regret at
President MacDonald having to leave us, and 
appreciatively of her labors among us here,
and the difficulty of selecting a suitable per-
son to fill her place, and the wisdom needed to
direct and lead for the best good of all; and
mentioned that a vote of thanks be extended
to Sister MacDonald for the faithful discharge
of her duties and labors in our midst, the
motion was seconded, and carried unanimously.
	Counselors Russell and Morris each made
appropriate remarks.
	Counselors Henry Rogers, Charles Allen,
A. I. Stewart, made encouraging remarks,
which were listened to with great interest
	Sisters Everett, Allen and Biggs, also bore

[Column 2]

tesimony to the truth of this latter day work,
and expressed their desire to live up to their
privileges.
	Sister MacDonald made a few closing re-
marks, exhorting the sisters to faithfulness in
all their duties.
	Closed by singing, "The Spirit of God, like
fire is burning." Dismissed by Chas. I. Robson.
		SARAH M. POMEROY, Sec.

	At the Stake conference, 23d and 24th, which
was held at Mesa, Sarah M. Pomeroy was ap-
pointed to fill the place of Sister-E. G. Mac-
Donald, as Stake President, with Sarah E.
Russell and S. A. Robson, as counselors.
	We had a very pleasant reunion of the
Relief Society of Mesa, on the 27th at the
Society Hall, as a farewell party to our be-
loved president,  and a very sociable and
agreeable time was enjoyed by all who parti-
cipated. Dancing was indulged in by those
who desired, both old and young taking part.
In the course of the evening, our president was
presented with a beautiful maroon plush covered
toilet case, for a lady. It was presented by Sister
Sarah E. Russell, as a token of love and
respect, from the Relief Society of Mesa, in
a few choice words suited to the occasion, she
briefly reviewed her labors of love amongst us.
Sister MacDonald was deeply affected at this
fresh proof of the love and respect in which
she was held. She responded in a feeling
manner, said she should never forget the many
happy hours spent in the society of her sisters,
and wherever her lot might be cast, should
remember them with grateful affection.
	On the evening of the 28th, which was the
evening before her departure, a few of her
friends planned to surprise her with a visit,
and with pic-nic and social conversation, the
evening passed pleasantly away.	S. M. P.

RIGBY.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The R. S., Y. L. M. I. A., and P. A., of
Rigby, held their annual meeting on February
25th, 1889, Sister Annie Robbins, presiding,
singing by the P. A., "'Tis Meeting Day,"
prayer by Bishop Cardon, singing, "In Our
Lovely Deseret." Minutes of the different
associations were then read and approved, and
the annual reports of each association were
read, and officers sustained. A vacancy of the
second counselor having occurred in the Prim-
ary Association; Sister Ellenor Homer, was
elected and set apart to fill that position, the
 Primary Association then proceeded with
their exercises as follows. Opening address
Miss Edith Saxton; answers on the first prin-
ciples of the Gospel a class of the larger
children; song by Sarah E. and Laura P.
Call, "Put my little shoe away;" recitation by
Russell K. Homer; dialogue between Olive
Robbins and Edith Saxton, on housekeeping;
recitation by John Saxton, "Give the little
boys a chance;" duet by Thomas E. and Chas.
Doman, "Two little birds are we;" recitation,
Alfred R. Homer, "The first cigar;" the ten
commandments, in verse by the smaller chil-
dren; recitation by Betsy Saxton, "The swal-
lows and I;" song by Lillie May Saxton, "I'm
going to write to papa;" recitation by Omer
Cardon; recitation by Laura P. Call, "little
Miss Tidy;" recitation by Maria Call, "I've
got three kisses so sweet to give;" recitation by
Ellenor Basset, "Nobody knows but mother;"
recitation by Maggie Saxton, "Busy little
fingers;" singing by the Primary Association,
"Nice young Mormons;" benediction by Bro.
D. S. Robbins.
		MARY E. CALL, President.
		ANNIE DOMAN, Secretary.


Abuse may not be criticism, but sometimes
the latter sounds much like the former.


TESTIMONY OF A SISTER.

DEAR EDITOR:
	I feel it my duty to write a few lines for our
valuable little paper.  Our position at the
present time, I fear, is not appreciated as it
should be; I never saw the time in my life that
I felt so thankful as I do at the present; I feel
to thank my Heavenly Father every day of my
life, for I know he has healed me through the
administrations of his Elders.
	About a year ago I had an ovarian tumor
start in my right side, and I began to bloat up
and feel miserable; at first I did not know
what was the matter with me, but as the
tumor grew I could feel it throb and beat, and
then I knew by what I had read that it was a
tumor. I kept getting larger all the time un-
til I could scarcely get around, and sometimes
I would be in such dreadful pain, that I could
scarcely endure it; I would send for the Elders
continually, but still I grew worse. I did not
know what to do; I had so many times in my
life been healed by the Elders, I began to feel
nearly discouraged. I well remember one day
about the middle of last August, I was suffering
terribly; I could not get in any position to get
one bit of ease, and it seemed as though I
could not live the pain was so great; my hus-
band was in the field cutting lucern at the
time. I sent one of the children after him and
one after the elders; they administered to me;
the moment they took their hands off my head
the tumor burst and the water ran freely; the
pain gradually went away, but I could not lie
down; the moment I attempted it the water
would rush to my heart and nearly smother
me. This was on Thursday, and the next
Sunday night I was so bad that I sat in the
rocking chair all night except what time I was
walking the floor. That night I told my hus-
band we would have to put a little more work
with our faith or I could not live; the next
day he went to Ogden and brought Dr. Allen.
When the doctor looked at me he said he
would tap me if I was not so weak; I told him
if he could relieve me to do so, and I would
run the risk of standing it. He put a band
around me and I went through the operation.
I sat in a chair, held a cup in one hand the
tube in the other, until three gallons of liquid
were taken from the tumor, and that night I
had a good rest; the doctor advised me to go
to Salt Lake City and get Dr. Richards to take
the tumor from me and the next Wednesday
morning my husband and I went. We went
to the Deseret Hospital and sent for Dr.
Richards; he came and talked very kind and
encouraging to me. He said he could not take
the tumor juat then, the weather was too warm;
he told me to go back home and wait until the
weather was cooler and then he would do all he
could for me. I came back home and the
tumor began to fill up again and grew very
fast; I began to wonder if I could never get
well, so I thought I had better prepare for the
worst. So the first thing I began to wish our
children could be sealed to us, for we had five
children before we were sealed at the altar.
We had four children married and three were
living in Snake River Valley. I wrote to
them and told them my condition, and that if
they could possibly come I would like to have
them do so, and they were soon all ready to go
 to the temple; we went, had our work done and
returned home. By this time it was getting
cool weather, and I was getting larger every
day, and I had to sit up and sleep, and some
days I had to be propped up in bed. I knew
there was only one chance for me to live, and I
thought I would take that chance; we got ready
to go to Salt Lake, though I did not know
how I could go; I had been in bed several days,
my husband was wondering how I could stand
the trip the way I was, so the night before we


were to start he said to me "we will have the
Elders come, and have them pray for you,"
so he went and brought three elders and they
administered to, and prayed for me; and they
all promised me I should go, have the tumor
taken, and return home safe again, and I be-
lieved every word they promised me. I had a
good rest that night, and got up next morning
and I felt as if I was healed; we went to Salt
Lake, went back to the Hospital, and found
Dr. Richards just as good as his word. He
had the best room in the Hospital all cleaned
and prepared for the operation. On the morn-
ing of October the 14th, the good and wise
doctor had everything arranged in the best of
order for the operation  I got up that morn-
ing and felt thankful that the day had come
that I would get rid of the worst trouble I had
ever had about me. At half-past twelve I
mounted the operation table without a doubt in
my mind, took the ether, and did not know any
more until four o'clock; then I woke np and
found myself in a nice warm bed. I got along
splendid; I never felt so thankful in all my
life. The tumor and all the water were fifty
pounds; only think of carrying fifty pounds;
the tumor when empty was twelve pounds; I
was in bed twenty days, and then I was up
five days before I came home. I had the best
of care, my husband sat right by my bed, and
I had a good kind nurse, and my doctor never
neglected me not in the least.
	If any of my sisters ever get in the same
condition that I have been in. I hope they will
take my advice and go to Dr. Richards, for
we have proved him and Dr. Allen to be
gentlemen in every respect. I never can forget
their kindness towards me, and every one in the
Hospital was very kind to me; and the good
Elder that never forgot me, he came and I
was healed. If I had not been under the care
of the doctor I would have got up, for I was 
healed, there is no mistake about it. The
same day Sister Zina Young came to see me,
she told me I would get well and return home
all right. God bless all my good sisters, I re-
main as ever,
	Your sister in the Gospel of peace.
		M. A. RAWSON.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	We cannot conquer necessity, but we can
yield to it in such a way as to be greater than
if we could.
	Mrs. Proctor, widow of the great astrono-
mer, will receive an annual pension from the
British government of $500.
	Miss Rose Elizabeth Cleveland has given up
the position she held last year at Mrs. Sylvanus
Reed's school, and returned to her home at
Holland Patent.—Ex.
	The Pennsylvania Senate has passed a bill
authorizing the appointment of women as physi-
cians in insane asylums where women are con-
fined.
	The Idaho Legislature has passed acts to
make women eligible to the office of County
School Superintendents, and to "establish and
protect the rights of married women."
	The Massachusetts Committee on Woman
Suffrage has voted to report, first, a bill giving
women municipal suffrage, and second, a bill
allowing women to vote on the license ques-
tion.
	Mrs. Frank Leslie has sold to W. J. Arkell,
of the Judge, her weekly illustrated papers,
both English and German, for $400,000, the
transfers to be made in May. Mrs. Leslie
will retain and personally direct her other
publications.


[Column 1]

THE NEW CONSTITUTION.

	The following is the Constitution proposed
for the new National-American Woman Suf-
frage Association. This constitution has been
approved by a majority of the committee on
union, appointed by the American W. S. A.,
and is now submitted to a vote of the members
of the Association, the vote to be taken by
mail, in accordance with the resolution passed
at the last annual meeting of the Association,
held at Cincinnati, O.
	HENRY B. BLACKWELL,
		Cor Sec, A. W. S. A. 
	ARTICLE I. The name of this Association
shall be the National-American Woman Suf-
frage Association.
	ARTICLE II. The object of this Associa-
tion shall be to secure protection in their right
to vote to the women citizens of the United
States by appropriate National and State legis-
lation.
	ARTICLE III. Section 1.—All citizens of
the United States subscribing to this Constitu-
tion and paying not less than one dollar
annually into the treasury of the Association,
shall become members thereof and shall be en-
titled to attend all its meetings, to participate
in all discussions that may arise, and to receive
reports and other documents published by it;
but such membership shall not carry with it
the right to vote.
	Section 2.—The payment of fifty dollars
($50) into the treasury of this Association
shall constitute any citizen of the United
States a life member of the Association with
all the privileges belonging to the regular
annual members.
	ARTICLE IV. 	Section 1.—The officers of
this Association shall be a president, a vice-
president at large, a recording secretary, a cor-
responding secretary, a treasurer, a chairman
of the executive committee and two auditors.
The officers named in this section shall be
nominated by an informal ballot at a busi-
ness session of the annual convention of the
Association. The three persons receiving the
highest number of votes for any office, shall
be considered the nominees of the convention
for that office, and the will of the Association
shall be taken for a formal ballot.
	Section 2.—Wherever State and Territorial
associations, auxiliary to the National Ameri-
can Association exist, the presidents of such
associations shall be considered vice-presidents
of the National-American Association, repre-
senting therein their respective States and Ter-
ritories.
	Section 3.—Each State or Territorial auxil-
iary association shall elect from its members-
ship one person to serve on the executive com-
mittee of their National-American Association.
	Section 4.—The president of the National-
American Woman Suffrage Association shall
appoint a vice president to represent on its
executive board, any State or Territory where
no State or Territorial Association exists auxil-
iary to the National-American Association.
	Section 5.—The officers enumerated in the
preceeding sections of this article shall con-
stitute the committee of this Association: of
these officers, fifteen shall constitute a quorum
for the transaction of business.
	Section 6.—The executive committee shall
elect annually from the veterans of our cause
ten or more honorary vice presidents.
	ARTICLE V. This Constitution may be
amended by a majority vote at any annual
meeting, notice of the amendment having
been given at any preceeding annual meeting.

BY-LAWS. BY-LAW I. 
	For the accomplishment of the object speci-
fied in Article II of its Constitution, this As-
sociation shall seek to concentrate the efforts
of all the advocates of woman suffrage in the

[Column 2]

United States by the following methods: (1)
It shall hold annually in Washington, one
meeting of delegates (according to the basis of
representation stated in By-Law II) for the
transaction of business, the election of officers
and the advocacy of its principles; and it may
hold one or more other conventions annually
for the advocacy of its principles. (2) It
shall form State and Territorial associations
auxiliary to itself in every State and Territory
where none such exists, and, recognizing the
authority of its auxiliaries in their respective
States and Territories, it shall promote their
local work by every means in its power. (3)
It shall publish tracts, speeches and other
documents and shall furnish the same to State
and local suffrage associations and to individ-
uals at actual cost. (4) It shall prepare and
circulate petitions to Congress and to State
and Territorial legislatures on behalf of the
political and civil equality of women. (5)
It may employ one or more organizers and
lecturers, and take such other measures for the
promotion of woman suffrage as the executive
committee shall determine upon, subject always
to the will of the Association.

By-Law II. BASIS OF REPRESENTATION.
	Section 1.—Any State or Territorial woman
suffrage association, and (in a State or Terri-
tory where there is no State or Territorial
suffrage organization auxiliary to the National-
American Woman Suffrage Association) any
local woman suffrage association may become
auxiliary to the National-American Woman
Suffrage Association by paying into the trea-
sury of the National-American Association
annually twenty-five cents (25) per member of
its entire membership.
	Section 2.—It shall be the duty of the
treasurer of each auxiliary association to send
to the treasurer of the National-American
Woman Suffrage Association, before January
1st in each year, a list, certified to by its presi-
dent or recording secretary, of the members of
said organization for the current year.
	Section 3.—Every such auxiliary association
shall be entitled to send three delegates to the
annual convention of the National-American
Woman Suffrage Association, and one dele-
gate in addition for every twenty-five members
above a membership of fifty. The delegates
actually present may cast the whole number
of votes to which the auxiliary association is
entitled.
	Section 4.—Any State or Territorial woman
suffrage association which is not auxiliary to the
National-American Association may send one
delegate to the annual meeting of the National-
American Association.
	Section 5.—All officers of the National-
American Woman Suffrage Association shall
be ex-officio delegates at large, and every such
officer shall be entitled to one vote in all the
the business-meetings of the Association.
	Section 6.—Where there are two State socie-
ties in one State, both of them auxiliary to
the National-American, the president of each
shall be a vice-president of the National-Ameri-
can; and each shall elect its own representative
on the National-American executive board,
and be entitled to one delegate for each twenty-
five members.

BY-LAW III. CREDENTIALS.
	All delegates (expect the delegates at large
specified in Section V of By-Law II) must
present credentials properly signed by the presi-
dent and the recording secretary of the organi-
zation represented. Membership cards, pro-
perly signed by the treasurer of the National-
American Suffrage Association shall serve as
credentials for the members of that body who
are not delegates from other bodies.

BY-LAW IV.
	The executive committee of the National-


[Column 1]

American Woman Suffrage Association shall
hold one session preceding the opening of each
annual convention in Washington and another
session after the conclusion of such convention;
and the committee having in charge the arrange-
ments for the annual convention shall always
take cognizance of such meetings of the exe-
cutive committee and make provision for them.
BY-LAW V.
	The decisions reached by the executive com-
mittee shall be presented in the form of recom-
mendations at the business sessions of the con-
vention.
BY-LAW VI.
	Every delegate shall be entitled to one vote
on all questions, but only on the election of
officers shall the delegates be entitled to cast
the full vote to which the organizations repre-
sented by them are entitled.
BY-LAW VII.
	The committee on resolutions shall consist
of one person from each State and Territory,
elected by the delegation from the organization
represented.
BY-LAW VIII.
	At the concluding business session of each
annual convention, the president of this Asso-
ciation shall appoint the following committees,
each committee to consist of three persons,viz.:
a committee on credentials, to have in charge
the credentials of delegates to the next annual
convention; a committee on programme, to
arrange the programme for the next annual
meeting; and a congressional committee, to
have in charge the direct congressional work
during the year which shall intervene between
the time of its appointment and the next
annual convention in Washington.
BY-LAW IX.
	The report of the treasurer up to the first of
January preceding the annual Washington
convention shall be read at the first business
session of that body.

	As some persons do not fully understand
about the "chronology" agreed upon for the
National-American Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion, a breif explanation may be desirable.
	At the conference in Washington between
the National committee on union and Miss
Shaw and Miss Blackwell from the American
committee on union, the question came up as
to how the meetings of the united society
should be dated. Each association had a long
record of work behind it. Many members of
both thought that it would be a pity, after
their annual meetings had got up into the
twenties, to sacrifice the prestige of a long
series of meetings behind them, and to call the
next convention the first of a new series. On
the other hand, neither association was quite
willing to date the meetings of the united
society from the birthday of the other associa-
tion. The present writer had thought that a way
out of the difficulty might be found by dating
them from the birthday of the old American
Equal Rights Society, in which the most active
of the suffragists on both sides had worked
together for several years before the split took
place and the National and American W. S.
A.'s were formed. She thought that this
would be true in the spirit if not in the letter,
A majority of the National committee, how-
ever, were not satisfied with this plan. Miss
Anthony then stated that the two associations
had been formed in the same year and had
held the same number of conventions; the
only difference was in their method of count-
ing, the National having called its second con-
vention its second annual meeting, while the
Americans called its second convention its
first annual meeting, i. e., its first anniversary.
As both associations had been formed in the

[Column 2]

same year, she thought it would not be an in-
justice to either to reckon the date of the
united society from that year, and to call the
next meeting the twenty-second. The present
writer had been under the impression that the
American was one convention behind the
National. She said that if the number of
meetings held had been the same, and the only
difference was in the way of counting them,
she thought it would do to call the next con-
vention the twenty-second, provided it were
clearly understood that was not done merely
because the National was twenty-two years old,
but because they both were. It was readily
agreed that this should be distinctly under-
stood; and on this basis the matter rested.
	Some members of each association object to
calling the next convention anything but the first,
on the ground that it is not true. Of course, in
strict technical accuracy, the meeting to be held
in Washington next January will be neither
the twenty second convention of the National,
nor the twenty-first anniversary of the Ameri-
can, but the first meeting of a new society
composed of the two. But, in the present
writer’s opinion, to call it the twenty-second is
sufficiently true in the spirit, if not in the
letter; and the point in any case is one of
minor importance.
	ALICE STONE BLACKWELL,
		Sec'y Am. Committee on Union.
The Woman's Journal, Boston, March 2, 1889.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A NEW USE FOR LEMONS.

	"If you ever use lemons," remarked one
housewife to a lady friend, "and have a por-
tion of one left over, be sure you do not throw
it away." "I am never without them in the
house, as I always use them for flavoring; but
of what use are the pieces?"
	"Just this.  The next time you think you
have done with a lemon just dip it in salt and
rub your copper kettle or stewpan with it.
You will be surprised to find what a brilliant
surface you will obtain if you rub the article
instantly with a dry, soft cloth. You can pol-
ish all brass work by the same means, every
stain disappearing as if by magic. A moldy
lemon put into a dirty saucepan half full of
water and boiled for half an hour cleanses the
utensil amazingly and removes any odor, such
as fish or onions. Try it, and see if I am not
right."—Ex.


SKETCH OF MARY G. CROOK.

	Mary Giles Crook, was born April 13th, 1833, in Calver-
ton, Nottinghamshire, England; the sixth child of Wm.
and Sarah Huskinson Giles. Baptized into the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, A. D. 1850; emigrated
to the United States, 1854, arrived in Burlington, State of
Iowa the same year; stayed there one year. Then came
to Council Bluffs, resided there one year. Crossed the
plains in P. H. Merrill's ox team company, arrived in Salt
Lake City, in said company on the 15th of August, 1856,
settled in Provo City; married to John Crook, September 6,
1856, in said city by Bishop Jonathan O. Duke. Moved
to Provo valley in 1859; received her endowments in Salt
Lake City, July 27, 1861; was set apart as first counselor to
Sister Katie Foreman, President of Relief Society, West
Ward, Heber; also set apart as first counselor to Sister Sarah
Cummings, President of Y. L. M. I. A. of said ward.
	She was the mother of nine children, six sons and three
daughters. Age at death, 55 years and five months exact;
was five months to a day paralyzed. She died faithful to
the Gospel. A dutiful mother and faithful wife; always on
hand in case of sickness or death. When the dreadful
scourge diphtheria visited Heber City some years ago, she
was as a ministering angel with her companion Maggie
Hicken among the afflicted both night and day. The
Lord blessed her in her comforting rounds with health and
strength, with only one exception, having a slight touch of
the scourge for about twenty-four hours. She was a woman
of great endurance, never having had much sickness until


the last five months of her life. Peace to her memory; she
has gone to receive her reward with the just and faithful.
	Yours respectfully,
		JOHN CROOK.
Heber City, October 28, 1888.


IN MEMORIAM.

	Died in West Weber, of dropsy, the beloved wife of
John Douglas. Deceased was the daughter of George
Dyson and Jane Burdett, born at Shearsby, Leceistershire,
England, November 29th, 1819. She was baptized into
the Church in July, 1849; sailed from Liverpool, May 21,
1856; crossed the plains in a hand cart company, and
endured many trials on the journey, one that was very
severe; she had to part with her daughter, at the age of
eighteen, and then a son on the snowy plains, which caused
their parents much grief, for it left them no children, but
the Lord gave them strength to reach the end of their
journey, at the late season of the year, they reached Salt Lake
City, November 30, 1856. Shortly afterwards she came
with her husband to Weber County, and settled in West
Weber, where she has resided until her death.
	She was President of the Relief Society of West Weber
over eighteen years, and was beloved by all her associates,
was kind and considerate to all, and always on hand to do
good; and was one that would not tolerate evil-speaking;
and died in full hope of a glorious resurrection.
		P. S. HART, Secretary.


WANTED.
	Gentlemen and Ladies of good address and
education to enter a commercial business,
where promotion and salary at three dollars
per day is guaranteed, small security required
“or bonds.” Address for further particulars,
		M. Glassford,
			354 E. Brigham Street,
				Salt Lake City, Utah.

R.K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K.THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortmenf of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
12, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS CAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

