Vol. 17.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 1, 1888.	No. 11.


TRIALS AND HAPPINESS.

When all is beautiful, and bright and fair, 
	And tranquil flows the pleasant stream of life;
We may forget its sorrow, toil or care,
	Perchance e'en bitterness, and pain, and strife,
Some precious lessons, trials may have taught;
	We may be purer, wiser and more just,
Some beauty in our souls may have been wrought,
	Through faith in God, obedience and trust.

And tho' we did not clearly understand
	The voice that whispered thrillingly, "be still,"
Yet we are sure, there was a guiding hand,
	That buoy'd us up life's duty to fulfil.
And when our weary feet had found a place,
	Where we might rest upon the great highway;
Then we have gathered courage, strength and grace,
	To bear the burdens of another day.

And thus westruggle on 'gainst adverse powers,
	For earth-life is not perfect, nor complete;
Yet there are hallowed moments, blissful hours,
	Wherein we quaff ambrosial nectar sweet,
Aud stand as 'twere upon enchanted ground,
	Breathing an atmosphere of purity,
While love and beauty everywhere abound,
	And joy, and light, and heavenly charity.

The past with all its dreariness and pains,
	Sinks into insignificance compared to this;
And for the time a brilliant summer reigns,
	That floods the soul with light and happiness;
Then hope sits high within the human heart,
	Waving her banner o'er the buried past,
And we seem strong, to choose "that better part,"
	Knowing in pleasant lines our lot is cast.

Our vision of the infinite—afar
	Is quickened; and we draw so near—
We almost see the gates of life ajar—
	And angel voices chanting praises hear.
And we interpret—in our own, poor way,
	Some of the doubts and mysteries we've seen—
But in the light of an eternal day,
	Then we shall know why all these things have been.
						EMMELINE B. WELLS.


[Column 1]
THE HOME OF CHILDHOOD.
“How dear to this heart are the scenes of my childhood,
When fond recollection presents them to view,
The orchard, the meadow, the deep tangled wildwood,
And every loved spot that my infancy knew.”

	How true are these words of the poet Words-
worth. Many can testify that no place was
ever so dear as the home of childhood. How
eminently proper that the home should be the 
seat of contentment, of affection and true hap-
piness, such as will purify and elevate the
attributes, and through these the after life of
the child, nurtured within its walls. Home
should ever be shadowed by the wings of love.
Peace should be the good angel that stands at
the right hand of the goddess who presides at 
the homestead. No matter how plain nor
how simple its appointments, if order and har-
mony exist, there is a charm like a talisman
that abides forever after, with the  man or
woman, and is like a beacon on the golden hills
that loom up in the distance, and blend with
the azure of the heavens illuminating the hori-
zon, and radiating to the extreme point, causing 
all between to be tinged with the roseate hue
thus reflected from one point to the other.

"Our early days—how often back
We turn on life’s bewildering track
To where, o’er hill and valley plays
The sunlight of our early days."

[Column 2]
	No matter how insignificant the fact may
seem, it is nevertheless a tangible one, that a 
happy disposition, a cheerful temperament, in-
stinctively impress others, without any volition
or will force. Then how essential that home
should be filled with an atmosphere of cheer-
fulness. Not that excess of boisterous mirth
that always lapses into the very opposite on
natural principles, but preserve a degree of
good nature, calm, placid and serene, that will
modify any inequality or incompatibility of
temper, and restrain the over-abundant force
of those inclined to recklessness or disobedience.
There are so many phases of human character
that need guiding and governing in the home, 
that no one, be he sage or philosopher, can
mark out the regular routine of action to be
pursued. The Bible says each after his kind, 
but we all know, who have studied character,
that each individual that comes into the world,
has some distinct originality that distinguishes
him from all others; consequently, we see how
difficult it is to deal justly by all, if we judge 
from our own standard, and must recognize
the propriety of the Savior’s words, “Judge
not, that ye be not judged.” How complicated
and magnificent seems the work of the Creator
in making this diversity, this variety in the
human soul. It is almost beyond our compre
hension. We only know such is the case, but
we know not why, nor how these things are so.
	But lest I grow abstrusely metaphysical, and
get far beyond my depth, I will leave these
mathematical problems and geometrical truths,
and go back to the home of childhood. Ah,
me, if we but had better homes all over the 
world, and fewer places of public amusement
and recreation, it seems to me the generation
to come might be benefited. However, as I 
am neither prince, potentate, no, nor even a 
member of the legislature, or of an assembly
of any kind, I have no power to help establish
laws that would ultimately result in the more
happy conditions of home life; therefore, I can
only use an influence with my pen, for the
awakening of thought on the subject of
homes, and the moral and spiritual effect of
their surroundings and associations. I know
it is a proverb that “home is home, be it ever
so homely;” but it will bear much qualifying.
The spot we call home may be unattractive in
many respects, but there must be something
that hallows it, or we could not cherish it in
our heart of hearts as the dearest place of all.
Youth is beauty in one sense, and pleasures
are enhanced by the very vigor and charm
that hang like a crown of glory over the
heads of the young, and reflects its brightness
on every object. It is the same in every land
and clime, and among all civilized  nations of
the earth; whether we go to Italy or Arabia,
home is home, and the more refined and sensi-
tive the individual, the more delicately and
elaborately are the affections interwoven with
the external objects that are in and around the
home itself. It may be a lilac bush, a rose
tree or a honeysuckle, or all these and more,
but imperceptibly to those around us forever
lingers the memories that can never die, of the
places and attractions of one’s childhood hours.
One of the sweetest of poets (and poets know 
how to read the heart pretty well), writes of 
the home of his childhood.

“I’ve wandered on thro’ many a clime where flowers of
beauty grew,
Where all was blissful to the heart and lovely to the view—

[Column 3]
I’ve seen them in their twilight pride, and in their dress of
morn,
But none appear’d so sweet to me as the spot where I was
born.”

	The heart clings so affectionately to the ob-
jects that have entwined themselves around its
tendrils in early life, that no after attachments
of the same nature ever take so firm a hold.
First impressions are always strongest, they lay
the foundation for all future life, and should
be as perfect as possible.	
	The sort of Bohemian life many well to-do
people live nowadays is injurious in the ex-
treme to children. Living in lodgings, in
hotels, here and there, with no settled home
and no place the child can ever look back to 
as a true home, is a great mistake. It may do 
for those who have no family. If that class 
of people like to be unsettled, and free from
care and responsibility, there is only them-
selves to be considered, but when children are
born to them, the subject becomes serious. By
all means, if parents would raise a family of
good, obedient children, and expect to have
them grow up useful members of society, good
citizens, and an honor to their country and
their God, then let them see to it that the home
of childhood is neat, cheerful, beautiful, and
orderly as possible. Let no contention or
quarreling be countenanced, and the regula-
tions of the home life be such as will conduce
to the well-being of all the inmates. Industry
is one essential principle. Each child should
do some regular work daily, and all be so care-
fully arranged that no one need feel his burden
heavier than it should be. Labor is not de-
grading, but elevating, if it is well done; the
silly idea that domestic occupations are menial
should be discarded, among us as a people cer-
tainly. To be able to do all that is necessary 
in the way of house-keeping, not omitting any
detail, from the cellar to the garret, is almost
indispensable in the education of one who ex-
pects to be a wife and mother. These are the
women whose homes are desirable places of
restfulness. The new-fangled notion of board-
ing is an egregious error, if we would have our 
children grow up under proper influences.
	In these respects Utah is pursuing the proper
methods. I am aware it is said that “in Utah
there are no homes,” but in the face of all that
has been said or written on the subject, I am
bold to assert that the Territory of Utah
abounds in happy homes; homes where
prayer and praise ascend; homes where peace
and content pervade the atmosphere; homes
where all that is purest and best is taught, and
principles of right instilled and engrafted into
the hearts of the little ones so firmly that noth-
ing can ever erase them wholly from the soul. 
Traverse this country over from north to south,
from east to west, and see the happy homes.
Humble and lowly they may be, yet, morning
and evening, the hymn of gratitude and
prayer of thanksgiving to God is offered up.
Listen to the daily teachings; they are such as
will tend to elevate human character, and to
make genuine men and women, true to them-
selves, to their own convictions, to the Consti-
tution of the United States, and the principles
of liberty that are dearer to the heart of an
American than anything else on earth. What 
is life without freedom? It is out of such
homes a race of men and women will grow up
that America will yet be proud to claim. 
	And again we may say the home of one’s
childhood is where the first seeds of good or


evil are sown that eventually bring forth fruit,
sweet or bitter, as the case may be. O how
grandly essential, then, that these homes, these
nurseries of the human soul, should be of that
character that will give healthy tone to the
living elements embodied in the soul, and im-
press them with the genius of nobility, honor,
and true heroism! Our young mothers should
take into consideration everything that will
tend to refine and enoble the generations yet
unborn. Beautify and adorn the home outside
and inside, but first of all get a permanent
home. Ancestral halls are famed in history. 
Why may this generation not plant them? Our
people are the "old settlers." They made
the country what it is, planted the trees and 
embellished the places with shrubbery, vines
 and flowers. They are building Temples, and
structures that will remain for generations to
come. Then why not beautiful homes? Homes 
that the children of to-day can look back upon
with as much love, as great a pride and en-
thusiasm, and as much attachment to, as do 
any of the people in older countries who cherish
the tender sentiment  of "home, sweet home."
	The way in which this city is laid out is a
self evident fact that Brigham Young's idea of
homes for the people was the correct one. Each
lot had sufficient room for a little garden, where
trees, and flowers, and shrubbery might be
cultivated, as well as vegetables for table use.
I well remember how much more homelike the
city looked while the gardens remained. But 
though all may not have gardens, the home
may be made attractive in various other ways.
A few pictures, a little pains taken to make the
furniture, look bright and new, and above
everything else rooms kept neat and tidy.
Plenty of sunshine and fresh air make a house
wholesome and the inmates better natured. 
Let the children enjoy the parlor as well as the
grown people. Never shut the children out
from any place because it is too good for them;
they will be more refined and cultured if they
are taught how to handle things that are valu-
able and pretty, than if they are always de-
nied the pleasure. Childhood's hours pass
quickly enough, and the cares and perplexities
of life bring about many changes in one's feel-
ings and circumstances, therefore it seems wise
and prudent to fortify our children by a gener-
ous supply of good nature, and help them to
cultivate all the higher and holier attributes of
the mind. 
	"Gather the rosebuds while ye may,
		Old time is still a-flying,
	And that same flower that blooms to-day,
		To-morrow shall be dying." 
								AUNT EM.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


ANNUAL MEETING.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	The Relief Society of this place held their
twentieth anniversary on the 6th of Sept., 1888.
The meeting opened with singing and prayer,
after which Prest. Elizabeth J. Stickney made
a few very appropriate remarks. Then the
roll was called, and the minutes of the last
meeting were read and approved. The six
months' report was next read, and then the
minutes of the organization, held Aug. 29th,
1868, were read; also the minutes of the tenth
annual meeting, and those that had their
names enrolled at the first meeting were read,
and those that were present answered to the
same, showing that there were sixteen present
that had attended our meeting twenty years
ago.  A twenty years’ report was then, read,
showing how much had been received and how
much disbursed during that time, and the use
made of the same; also stating how much is on
hand at present. The report showed, also,
how many quilts had been made by the Society,
and the use made of them.


Sister Seren E. Hudson read a piece of
poetry composed by herself for the occasion,
which was very good.
	The meeting was addressed by Sisters Emily
G. Cluff, Marilla Daniels and M. A. Till, all of
Provo, their rəmarks being very instructive
and encouraging; they also spoke in praise of
the reports that had been read.
	A song was sung by Sister Julia Silverwood,
of Salt Lake City, with an accompaniment on
the organ by Miss Mary K. Boyle.
	Short and appropriate addresses were de-
livered by Bishop George Halliday, Bro. Eli
Openshaw and Sister Elizabeth Wall. Then a
vote of appreciation was given to all those that
had taken parts in the Society, to show that
their labors are appreciated, after which Bros.
Lars A. Johnson and J. C. Stickney each
addressed the meeting for a short time.
	The meeting, a very memorable one, was
then brought to a close with singing and bene-
diction by Bro. L. Openshaw.
	The tables were then spread with the good
things of the earth, and a bounteous picnic
was partaken of, and a very sociable and en-
joyable time was spent, until sunset, then all
retired, seemingly well pleased with the after-
noon’s enjoyment.
			ANN J. STICKNEY, Secretary.
	Santaquin, Utah Co., Sept., 1888.


BUSINESS CAPACITY OF WOMEN.

	In a pamphlet recently issued by the cachier
of the Fifth-Avenue Bank in New York City,
occures the folliwng, which contains food for 
thought for heads of households:
	"Many husbands and fathers give their
wives and daughters a sum of money each
month with which to run the  house, or for pin
money.  By depositing savings from this in 
the bank, paying it out by checks, and know-
ing what they have spent and what they have 
ahead, they learn how fast little sums added
together make great sums, and how small
economies accumulate into great economies.  It
gives women business habits and helps fit them 
to take care of property, if at any time it 
should come into their porsession, and best of
all for married women, it relieves them from
the necessity of so frequently asking their
husbands for money.  It also saves the hus-
band much care and annoyance in the midst 
of his busy and anxious life; for the presenta-
tion of small house bills is often a confusion
and an irritation.		*		*	With
far less techniaal training than a man requires,
a woman becomes the keenest and most accu-
rate of business managers, excelling particu-
larly in those departments which make the 
severest demands upon an intutive judgment.
All over Great Britain the largest and best
hotels are to-day managed by women; in Berlin,
Dresden, Leipsic, Madgeburg, Zurich, and in
many other great cities of the continent—
especially in Paris—great ‘Magasins' and
shops can be found admirably directed by
women in all details; and in New York City
the banker and the capitalist will tell you of 
sound and conservative judges of business
questions and enterprises among women of re-
fiuement, social standing and domestic tastes.


REV. EDWARD P. ROE.

	In the death of Edward P. Roe, many
readers of fiction have lost their favorite author. 
Mr. Roe may not have been among our great-
est novelists, but he was one of the most suc-
cessful.  He was born at Windsor, New York,
in 1838, educated at Williams College with
the view of entering the ministry, and after a 
year at Auburn Theological Seminary became
chaplain of the Second New York Cavalry.


In 1864 he was appointed one of the chaplains
of Fortress Monroe hospitals.  After the war
Mr. Roe accepted a call from the Presbyterian
Church at Highland Falls, New York, and it
was there he gathered the materials for"Nature's
Serial Story."  In 1874 he removed to Corn-
wall on-Hudson, and in this beautiful retreat, 
surrounded by fruits and flowers, which he 
cultivated for the sake of his health, most of
his books were written.	
	In the preface of his novel,  "Without a
Home," he tells how he came to be an author.
The burning of Chicago made a powerful im-
pression on him, and after spending several
days among the ruins and studying the striking
features of the catastrophe, he wrote his first
novel, "Barriers Burned Away,"  a work
which had a large sale, and which quickly
gave him a reputation as a writer. He has 
since devoted himself to authorship, and the
sixteen works, mostly novels, which he has
produced, have had an aggregate sale of about
750,000 copies.  "Of Barriers Burned Away"
69,000 copies have been sold; of "Opening a
Chestnut Burr," 68,000; "Without a Home,"
60,000; "From Jest to Earnest," 60,000; "Near 
to Nature's Heart," 53,000; "A Knight of the 
XIX Century," 53,000; "A Day of Fate,"
50,000, and the sales of other works from his 
pen range from 25,000 to 45,000.  Mr. Roe's
latest novel, "miss Lou," is in the printers'
hands.  The figures here given justify the
statement that Mr. Roe's Works have a larger 
number of readers than those of any living
American novelist. 
	The tone of Mr. Roe's works is worthy of
his calling, as all of them are characterized by
a moral purpose.—Selected.


MISCELLANEOUS.
	Keep your hope in bad times. We have
the same sun and sky and stars, the same duties
and the same Helper. Hope then in God.—
Dr. Goodell.	
	Sorrows may take from life its delights; but,
thank God! they can never take its duties. At
the lowest ebb of dejection we will still have
much to do.—F. D. Maurice.
	Kind words produce their own image in
men’s souls, and a beautiful image it is. They 
soothe and quiet and comfort the hearer. They
shame him out of his sour, morose, unkind
feelings. We have not yet begun to use kind 
words in such abundance as they ought to used.
—Pascal.
	Thought engenders thought. Place one
idea on paper, another will follow it, and still
another, until you have written a page. You
cannot fathom your mind. There is a well of
thought there which has no bottom. The more
you draw from it, the more clear and fruitful
will it be. If you neglect to think for your-
self and use other people’s thoughts, giving 
them utterance only, you will never know what
you are capable of. At first your ideas may
come out in lumps, homely and shapeless; but
no matter; time and perseverance will arrange
and polish them. Learn to think and you
will learn to write; the more you think, the 
better you will express your ideas.


For the third time in its history, a woman
has been admitted to practice before the
United States Supreme Court—Mrs. Ada M.
Bittenbender, of Lincoln, Neb., the Superin-
tendent of Legislation of the National
Women’s Christian Temperance Union. She
is in partnership with her husband in the prac-
tice of law in Lincoln. The two ladies who
have been previously admitted are Mrs. Belva
A. Lockwood, and Mrs. Laura De Force Gor-
don, of California.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NOT A DROP FOR ME.

No, thank you, boys, not a drop for me now,
Though you say a little wont harm;
I've tried that same thing, and know how
Little it takes to break the charm.
One drink braves another with me,
And when I've had two I want more;
Then I'll tip my glass and drink No. three,
And get drunk and crazy on No. four.
Drunk and crazy. Do you see that boy
Just passing around the corner there?
He, a few months ago, was a mother’s joy,
With a happy smile on his face so fair,
With a bounding step and a cheerful voice,
A mind that promised the world much good,
To do right or wrong he had his choice,
And he chose the latter, as most of us would.
And now he’s so low in humanity’s scale,
With his bloated form and darkened brow,
That he gives no heed to a mother’s wail,
That would win him to virtue even now.

I don't give advice, “I’ve been there myself,”
And it don’t take well every time;
A fellow, that’s drinking lays advice on the shelf
Till he spends his very last dime.

Example’s the thing to bring a man back,
And ragged and hungry children and wife;
Just think if there’s nothing at home you lack,
Ere you pawn for a drink your pocket knife.

Yes, your pocket knife, for a man will sell
The coat from his back for the poison drink,
To steep his mind with this essence of hell;
Of manhood’s chain he’ll break the last link.
I know that the grass on the drunkard’s grave
Grows as green as where the Christian rests;
But a great hereafter the soul must brave,
And the drunkard then will fail to be blest.

’Tis whiskey that fills our prisons all,
’Tis whiskey that tightens the hangman’s rope;
’Tis whiskey that turns life’s sweets to gall,
’Tis whiskey kills joy, kills life, kills hope.
“Taste not, touch not, handle not,”
With God’s help this my motto shall be;
Though in trouble I live, and in poverty rot,
From the curse of intemperance I’m free.

And now when my long day’s work is o’er,
And I hasten home to wife and child,
Mattie sits waiting me at the door,
With a smiling face, once haggard and wild.
And I cast my eyes to the sky above
And thank the Father who gave me life;
For blessings on me and mind, and the love
That has banished from me this curse, this strife.
	MRS. M.A.M. SALTER.
Sylacauga, Talladega Co., Ala.


WOMAN'S VOICE.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
      'Tis a great satisfaction to me to read of the 
great amount of good our many sisters are 
doing, and while perusing their letters in our 
very valuable paper, the idea presented itself
to my mind that perhaps if we were heard
from occasionally it might possibly create some
gratification for others, such as those who in 
times gone by worked with all their hearts
with  us for the promotion of our cause,
especially those dear sisters who have been 
driven, as it were, into other territories to avoid,
if it could be, those who would harass and 
persecute us.
     We are a plain, matter of fact little band, 
desirous of keeping pace with any of the
organizations in doing good, teaching and liv-
ing in accordance with the simple doctrine of
Christ, our Lord and Master; and with all that 
we are passing through at the present time, we
know that there is grand cause for us to "re-
joice and be exceeding glad." 
      For the benefit of many of our workers
who are separated from us for a season, we


just want to tell what the Relief Society sisters
did on the Twenty-fourth of July. Of course
there was the usual celebration in the morning,
then at 1 o'clock p.m., all those over sixty years
of age, all the widows and those whose hus-
bands were in exile repaired to the large
school house, where a most sumptuous repast
was spread with excellent taste and the very 
best of order, and indulged to their own satis-
faction in partaking of the substantials and
dainties that had been prepared for them, and
I assure you it was a very pleasing picture to 
behold, and we would have been well pleased
to have had the presence of some whom we 
know will read this with many fond remem-
brances.
	After dinner the committee cleared every-
thing away in such a quiet, orderly way, it was 
surprising. Then we sang, recited, etc., and
danced until we all had enjoyed ourselves so
long that we were quite ready to go home.
	We could tell you much more, but not wish-
ing to impose upon your time or patience the
first time, we will just say, "God bless the Re-
lief Society and the WOMAN'S EXPONENT."
			SARAH E. WHITNEY, Sec.
	Parowan, Iron Co., Aug. 5, 1888.


EIGHTEENTH CENTURY LITERA-
				TURE:
	To facilitate the study of eighteenth-century
literature, it is convenient to divide the one
hundred and twenty years which succeeded the
Restoration into three equal parts. Each of 
these is dominated by one figure of far greater
intellectual prestige than any other of the
same period. No one will question that the 
first of these is the generation of Dryden nor
the last that of Johnson. It may not perhaps
be quite so readily conceded that the age of
Anne lay under the tyranny of Swift. It will,
however, be found, I think, upon close examina-
tion that neither Pope nor Addison has an
equal claim to be considered the centre of the
action or the hero of the story. They wrote
with consummate skill, but Swift it was who
laid the torch to the standing-corn of thought;
his was the irradiating, the Promethean mind
from 1700 to 1740, and his the force of
character, the thrill of personal genius, that
rivets to itself the main attention of students
throughout that brilliant period.
	The age of Dryden was the most prosaic in
our literary history. In its course theology,
philosophy, even poetry itself, were chained 
either to common sense, or to a ranting rapture
which dispensed with literary sincerity, and
was is fact, more prosaic than all prose. What
mainly flourished under the strong leaden
sceptre of Dryden was satire, in new and strin-
gent forms; artificial comedy, brutal at first,
and harsh, but polished at length to the last ex-
tremity of cynical elegance; burlesque verses,
very smart and modern, which passed for
poetry; the political pamphlet; the clear limpid
art of the letter-writer, modelled, through
Roger L'Estrange, on the directness of the
Lettres Portuyaises; the sincere, naked thought
of Locke, with its dislike of ornament and
carelessness of authority; the first grotesque
babble of modern criticism; the dryness of the
polemical divines; and over it all, covering its
defects as with a garment, the new graces of
the competent current prose of the day. This
is the vestibule of the eighteenth century, and
across its very threshold the rich brocaded wit
of Congreve shakes hands with the urbanity and
grace of Addison.
	The age of Swift is fuller of intellectual ac-
tivity, more genial, more varied, more enthu-
siastic. The coldest period is over, and already 
a faint flush of the summer of romanticism is
discoverable. This fuller life takes many 
forms. In philosophy the age is no longer
[column 2]
content with the bald presentment of Locke's
ideas, but with something less than positive 
originality, calls to its aid the fancy and
ingenuity of Shaftesbury, the brilliant imagina-
tion of Berkley. In poetry, though the
general type is artificial still, there is no longer
the protracted cultivation of one form; satire
takes urbaner and less brutal shapes, and, half
way through the period, the landscape poets
push in with their blank verse, and the lyrists
with their octosyllabics. The drama somewhat
abruptly expires, and while the nation is wait-
ing for the development of the novel, Addison
holds its ear with the humor and dainty senti-
ment of his essays. A delicate amenity, a 
sweetness of expression marks the age of Anne;
and even the ferocities of Swift and Mandeville
do not belie this general impression of increas-
ing civilization of the mind, since the very 
wounds inflicted by these writers show the
tenderness of the contemporary epidermis.
Such satire would not have penetrated a genera-
tion grown pachydermatous under the flail of
Oldham or Lord Dorset. There was a rapid
development of the power of ridicule by prose
and verse, a general sharpening and pointing
of every literary weapon, and it was in this
age of Swift that English prose reached its 
maximum of strength, elegance, and elasticity
combined.
	Something was again relinquished in the 
third period, that of Johnson. Here, to secure
more strength, needless weight was superadded
to language; elasticity was lost in a harmony
too mechanically studied. What was really
best in this third age was directly recovered
from the early Anne writers, as Goldsmith, its
best author, is seen returning to the traditions
of Addison and Congreve. The main contri-
bution of this period to literature is the novel,
which opens with "Pamela" in its first year,
1841. Before the generation closed, the earliest
development of fiction was over and the novel
in decline. In verse, what was not imitative of
the old schools was suggestive of what did not
come till the next century began. On one
hand we have Goldsmith, Johnson and 
Churchill reviving the manner of Pope; on the
other we have Gray and Collins in their odes,
and Chatterton in his verse-romances, prophesy-
ing of Coleridge and Shelley. Everywhere
during this third period the buried and forgot-
ten seeds of romantic fancy were becoming
stimulated, and were pushing their shoots above
ground in Percy's "Reliques," in a "Castle of
Otranto," in a "Descent of Odin." Mean-
while, what was mainly visible to the public
was the figure of Dr. Samuel Johnson, a ses-
quipdalian dictator, not writing very much or
in a superlatively excellent manner, but talk-
ing publicly, or semi-publicly, in a style hither-
to unprecedented, and laying down the law on
all subjects whatever. Around this great man
collects whatever there is of normal genius in
the generation—Goldsmith and Burke, Gibbon
and Reynolds, Boswell and Garrick—and a 
group is formed, to the student of persons and
manners the most interesting that literary his-
tory can supply. So rich is the age in anecdote,
so great in critical prestige, that the student must 
look closely and carefully to perceive that it is
rapidly declining in intellectual force of every
kind, and by 1780 is only waiting for the de-
cease of two or three old men to sink completely 
into a condition of general mediocrity. When
Dr. Johnson dies, the literature of the
eighteenth century is practically closed, and
the work of removing the debris to prepare for
the nineteenth begins.—Edmund Gosse in The
New Princeton Review.


The National Woman Suffrage Association
has adopted a delegate basis of representation,
and at its next annual convention it will no
longer vote as a mass-meeting, but as a body of
delegates.


84                       WOMAN'S EXPONENT
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.
      Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
      Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
      EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
      Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.
      Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.	
SALT LAKE CITY,			 NOVEMBER 1, 1888.


EDITORIAL THOUGHTS.
	For several years past some very philanthropic
ladies of the East have been (one would think),
greatly troubled concerning the condition of the
women of Utah, and they have, in various ways,
sought to obtain money from charitable institu-
tions, and from the public treasury of the country,
ostensibly to assist in the suppression of plural
marriage and all "its terrible conditions," which,
according to their ideas, its practice has wrought
among the people here in these valleys of the
mountains. They forget the dreadful degradation
of women near home, in their own cities and
towns, or are totally blind to the sin and crime
that abounds in the very heart of the nation, or,
scripturally speaking, they fail to remove the beam
from their own eyes, but reach away over the Rocky
Mountains, penetrating into the very fastnesses to
search and discover the mote in the eyes of the 
"Mormons;" and they think, forsooth, that they
have discerned it in the practice of a principle
that the ancient prophets and patriarchs embraced,
and that God himself approved, he acknowledg-
ing those very men as doing His bidding, walking
in His paths, and in various other ways. But 
without entering into any discussion of the sub-
ject itself, or any dissertation upon the merits of
its practice (especially as Congress has decided
that men can no longer marry other wives, or
recognize those whom they had already taken
previous to the passage of laws provided on pur-
pose to punish the "Mormons"), instead of making
any defence even, because it is utterly useless
now, Congress having decided all things for the
people, as though one's conscience was not to be
considered at all, we only want to mention a few
facts in relation to the methods, by means of
which these anti-Mormon women obtain money
"to aid in suppressing polygamy."
	Foremost among the women of the world who 
have joined this campaign, and whose sympathies
have been so deeply aroused as to cause them to
weep freely, and pray long and loudly for "the griev-
ous wrongs in Utah, done under the cloak of relig-
ion," is Mrs. Angie F. Newman. She has continued
her intercessions in public and in private for years
wherever an opportunity offered, or she could
succeed in making an opening, to be heard on this
exciting topic. Her name is thus becoming widely
known, and she has made a national reputation by
crying down the "Mormons." What her lectures
and arguments are, which she uses so freely and
with such eloquence, as to draw money from the
public treasury, it is easy to see from the reports
to the leading papers of New York and Washing-
ton, and, strange to state, from the Congressional
Record also. It is well that her reports and testi-
monials are given to the public press, for through
these popular sources, "he who runs may read,"
[column 2]
and truth and error may meet in open conflict,
for these untruths cannot pass without contradic-
tion, and every honest-hearted person who ex-
amines without prejudice will discover the truth,
and "Mormon" women are not afraid of the result.
For instance, Mrs. Newman pictures plural wives
as wretched, ignorant, down-trodden, and totally
incapable of maintaining themselves temporally,
or protecting themselves morally; their situation
is deplorable by reason of their helplessness and
illiteracy, having never been taught independence
or self reliance, therefore, "Congress must pro-
vide for these incompetent persons."
	Mormon women themselves claim that they
know their own history and condition better than
any one else possibly can, and that they have no
need or occasion for the money obtained, or
methods introduced by these officious sympathizers
under false pretenses, to better their circum-
stances and lift them to the plane of modern
civilization, such as the Gentile world claim as the
EXCELSIOR.
	Recently in Mrs. Newman's lectures she told a
sensational story, one or more, to the W. C. T. U.
in New York, that perfectly horrified them, and
would have terrified the "Mormon" women still
more, had the stories been true; but when contra-
dicted by reputable non-Mormons, as well as real,
live Mormons, what will Mrs. Newman do for ma-
terial to draw upon in the future? Mrs. Newman
has a great deal of polish, and knows what will
take with the religious element outside, and withal
carries an influence that many stronger women of
positive character are not able to maintain. What
a pity her talents are not made use of in the right
direction—in the lifting up and reforming and
bringing back to lives of usefulness those who
have strayed from the paths of virtue, or fallen
victims to the seducer or betrayer of innocence.
If to such charities she would devote her energies
and efforts, she could find abundant opportunity,
and for such a class of women Congress would do
well to provide "Industrial" Homes.
	Here in Utah there are more domestic and other
industries already, than there are women to supply
places and the need for work. Every woman and
child is or may be provided for, because of the
perfect organizations that exist throughout all the
Stakes of Zion, that cover the land from east to 
west, from north to south, wherever the Latter-day
Saints are located. It is one of the principles of
the religion of this peculiar people that they pro-
vide for the poor; it is an injunction of the Savior,
"The poor ye have always with you." The condi-
tion of the Mormon women is only deplorable because
of the interference of Congress with their marital
relations; the breaking up of happy homes, and
the separation of those bound together by the
most solemn ties and covenants, and the love that
is stronger than death itself. These things have
come about through the misrepresentations and
falsehoods circulated by unprincipled people for
their own selfish purposes, and not for the love of
virtue and righteousness, by any means.
	The thousands of tourists that have visited Utah
during the last few years, some of whom have
taken pains to investigate a little into the condi-
tions of the people, know that no such state of
society exists here as is represented by these men
and women who, for the sake of gain and notoriety,
join the popular outcry against the "Mormons."
Ladies of culture and refinement who have visited
here and spent some time among the people,
meeting them in their homes and socially, have
informed us that on returning home and telling the
simple truth about the "Mormons," they have been
berated as though it was a crime to tell the truth
of a people so despised; and they were either
accused of having been "converted to polygamy"
or bought with "Mormon" money, or that they
had only seen what is termed by the outside world
"gilt-edged Mormonism."
[column 3]
	Recently, while traveling on a railway train, four
gentlemen in conversation struck upon "Mormon
ism," in our hearing. Evidently they knew very
little of its principles, but they had been in Salt
Lake, and each one seemed disposed to "tell it
all." One man said he had been in Salt Lake
City frequently, and that once while traveling
from Chicago to this city he met a charming young
woman, with whom he conversed considerably
about the "Mormons;" he denounced Brigham
Young as an impostor, and so on, and expressed
himself very emphatically against the practice of
polygamy, etc. She apparently acquiesced in all
that he said. After his arrival in Salt Lake, he
chanced to meet her on the street, and recognized
her; a gentleman in whose company he was at
the time, rather astonished at his knowing a
"Mormon lady, said: "Do you know her?" "Well,
yes," he replied, "we traveled together a part of
the way from Chicago." The friend then in-
formed him that she was the granddaughter of
Brigham Young, and that her husband was under-
ground, and had been for two or three years, and
that she was a firm believer in the doctrine of
polygamy, etc. Now, to one acquainted with the
family of Brigham Young this was very funny, to
say the least, but it shows how far off people get,
as Brigham Young has no granddaughter married
to any man who is either in exile, or under-ground.
This subject of "under-ground" was immediately 
taken up by the party conversing, and inquiries
elicited the following explanation from the man
who knew it all. He said the "Mormons" had a
system of under-ground tunnels, and that the
deputies and detectives, vigilant as they were,
and the best the government could employ, had
never been able to discover how it was managed,
or where ingress, or egress were obtained; that
the man that had given them the most troupble of
any, and the one they wanted to get the worst was
"Cannon," who was now the President of the
Church, and had come out and given himself up
since "Cleveland" had appointed a Democratic
Judge. He went on to say a great deal more
about "this" man "Cannon," and the "Mormons"
all being democrats and solid for Cleveland, etc.
One of the men who was older and evidently
wiser, and who had traveled in China and other
foreign countries, began to relate stories of the
condition of women and female children in  those
lands, and the conversation drifted off into the
greater absurdities he could tell, to which "Mor-
mon" stories sank into insignificance, and they
finally dropped the "Mormon" topic.
	To one so well acquainted as the writer with
"Mormonism" and the people, it was more than
absurd to sit silently and hear these ridiculous
tales about under-ground tunnels, "Mormon"
treasures, their politics, etc., and who presided
over the Church, and his unbounded influence
and a great deal more of the same kind of thing. 
No doubt the same stories are told over and over,
and each time exaggerated and elaborated, and
the people swallow these fabrications as facts, and
circulate them far and wide. Sensational stories
about "Mormons" are about like "Baron Mun-
chausen" and "Sinbad, the Sailor," tales, and will
by and by be looked upon by those who have read
and heard them as just as ridiculous. Mrs. New-
man and the Industrial Home business may
prosper for a time, but Congress will learn at last
that "Mormon" women will not accept help in
any such way, and that their belief in their re-
ligion is "without money and without price. They
are not to be bought in any such way, and how-
ever ignorant and uncultivated the world may
think them, they scorn and despise such methods
as these professedly "Christian" women resort to
to obtain money and favor and notoriety. They
can look with pity upon those afar off, who are
deceived in regard to the conditions here, but for
those who come among them and partake of their
hospitality and know the truth, and then go away


and boldly and openly declare falsely concerning
the situation, they can only have the most severe
contempt. But they are in the hands of One who
knows the secrets of all hearts, and who will
eventually “come out of His hiding place,” and
until that time wickedness will prevail, and those
who wish to keep the laws of God will be persecu-
ted; but for those who walk in the light of the
Gospel, and are steadfast, clinging to “the iron
rod,” there is no need of fear.
	Therefore, the women of the Latter-day Saints
can pursue the even tenor of their way, and per-
form the duties, of every-day life, laying a sure
foundation in the hearts and minds of their child-
ren, that they may grow up in the knowledge of
God and his ways, walking in His precepts and
obeying His commandments, and while they do
these things, and all others required, the Lord
will fight their battles and provide for their de-
liverance from the bondage of their enemies in
His own way, to the astonishment of those who
are waiting and watching for their downfall and
destruction.


WOMEN’S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	THE Deseret Sunday School Union have re-
cently issued a new Sunday School Hymn Book.
The book is well printed and neatly bound in
cloth, and is of a size suitable to be handled by
the children. It contains 254 pages, and 111
hymns. The title page says, "Hymns and Sacred
Songs," "Designed for the use of the Children of 
the Latter-day Saints." The index is carefully
arranged, giving the first words of the hymn, and
the name of the author of each piece. There is
a reference to music—explanatory—and Index to 
subjects. In fact the book seems quite complete,
and must, one would think, be a great help in the
Sabbath Schools and elsewhere. Every child
should have one; children are always impressed 
with hymns and songs learned while in their
young and tender years. They remember the 
little verses they recited and sang, "e'en down to 
old age," consequently it is of the utmost import-
ance that they should be taught precious truths
and pure sentiments in their little lessons. The
Deseret S. S. Union are doing a good and noble
work in many ways—quietly, as well as in the Sun-
day Schools, to educate and benefit the children
of the Saints, that they may grow up to be an
honor and blessing in Israel. The hymns have
been selected and arranged with great care, and
with earnest thought, for the welfare of the youth
of Zion. The book will certainly prove a bless-
ing to all, in the schools and in the homes.
Printed and for sale at the office of the Juvenile
Instructor for 25 cts.
	"REMINISCENCES OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS,"
by L. O. Littlefield, is the title of a very handsome
book issued at the office of the Utah Journal,
Logan, Utah. The book contains 208 pages, and
is in close, readable type for old and young. The 
Latter-day Saints have a great deal of material 
for this sort of writing, and plenty of historical 
facts that are sufficiently interesting and teeming
with variety to suit all classes of readers. It is 
very commendable in Bro. Littlefield to get up a
work of this kind to add to the libraries of the 
people. There is so much of the literature of the
age that is not fit to be introduced into the homes
of the people, that it behooves the Latter-day
Saints to look well and carefully into this matter,
and see what books are being read by their child-
ren; and if they want them to cultivate faith in the
Gospel, it will be a good thing to give them such
books as the one just out from the pen of Bro.
Littlefield. It contains many truths told in a 
graphic way, likely to make a vivid impression of 
the scenes and incidents through which many of


the Saints have been called to pass in the early 
days and times of the establishment of the Church.
Every page of the book is full of interest, and all
those who participated in the events therein de-
scribed, will feel gratified in reading the author's 
version of the trials, troubles, persecutions and 
afflictions of the Saints. The statement of Lucy 
W. Kimball, in the third chapter will be read with
intense interest everywhere. The price of the 
book is $1.00, and it should be widely circulated.
We trust the time will come when there will be
books enough published by this people to supply 
the home market. Reminiscences cannot fail to
do good and to please and instruct, as well as
benefit all who peruse its pages.


IN MEMORIAM.
LIBBIE WELLS.
	Again in sadness we feel the loss of another
one beloved. It was all so sudden and so strange,
that only as the days pass by and we no more see
her lovely face, or hear her pleasant voice in the
familiar places where she was wont to be, do we
begin to realize that it must be true, and she has
gone, gone from our midst; that “already, kneel-
ing at the throne, she has received her welcome,
and is resting on the bosom of her Savior.”
Calmly and sweetly she seemed to sleep, and no one
dreamed it was the last, long sleep, from which she
never more would waken. Carefully they moved
around the darkened chamber, and only in whispers
spoke, for fear of waking her, until long hours
had passed, and still she slept, strangely slept;
then in alarm they tried to wake her, but all in
vain; cries, calls, entreaties, moans, were alike
unheeded; the angel of death had claimed her,
and was bearing her soul into another realm.
	How natural it must have been to her to fall
into a painless, quiet sleep in her earthly home,
and to awake in heaven; but, alas! how strange to
us to see one so cherished, in seeming health,
sleep her life away, and never utter a single part-
ing word. Her few years on this earth she doubt-
less now recalls as but a happy dream, and in her
glorious home awaits its fulfillment, when, with
all her dear ones, now so sadly bereft, she will
dwell forever, evermore.
	By all who knew her she was greatly beloved
and admired, not alone for her extreme beauty
and charming manner, but her devotion to her
loved ones and her motherly tenderness. “If
human love has power to penetrate the veil (and
hath it not?) then there are yet living here a few
who have the blessedness of knowing that an angel
loves them.”
	Many and beautiful were the floral offerings
from friends, who could do nothing more, only by
these sweet, silent tributes express their sympathy
and love. Sweet and exquisite were the songs
sung at the home, ere her mortal body was borne
to its last resting place, and eloquent and inspiring
were the words of comfort and hope uttered by
friends whose hearts were also bleeding.
	We dare not question what we do not under-
stand; strange though it seems to us that one so
needed here should be called from earth, we truly
feel, “Thou hast all seasons for thine own, O
death!” and some day, perhaps, as we wait and
wonder, the mystery will unfold, and in praise our
hearts will say, “God knew the best.”
	Mary Elizabeth, the daughter of H. S. and
Marion M. Beatie, and the wife of Heber M. Wells,
was born at Salt Lake City, Dec. 9, 1858, and
died on Saturday, Oct. 13, 1888. A wide circle
of friends mourn their loss in losing her, but their
hearts ache more for the sorrowing husband, the
three little children—Manning, Hebe and Mary—
in the home so lonely, and the widowed mother.
If sympathy and kind wishes can aid, they are
yours.
	A. W. C.


LIB.
To the regions of rest, where the blissful abide,
Rocked to sleep on the waves of Eternity’s tide,
Thou art gone in the bloom of thy beauty so rare,
And a bright star has dropt from Life's firmament fair.

Dost thou dream of the sorrow bewailing thee here,
Of the once happy home, of the hearts sad and drear,
That were wont to brim over with gladness and glee?—
Though they ne'er knew delight if 'twere absent from thee.

Art thou mindful of him, thy young life’s only love,
Whose fond soul, sorrow-bowed, fain would seek thee
	above,
Save 'twere duty to bide where stern destiny’s thrall
Has enchained him a captive, awaiting God’s call?

Will thy angel heart yearn for love's tender caress
From thy little ones, left in the world motherless?
Is memory immortal, or aught to thee now
The burdens 'neath which thy soul erstwhile did bow?

Soft as falls from the fountain of life the glad dew
O'er the sun-withered flow'r, till it blossom anew,
Was the voice that gave answer, so silent, so sweet,
Ne’er did music of earth the rapt senses so greet:—

Dost thou mourn, love, my absence? Behold I am here
At thy side, though unseen, and shall ever be near.
Deem me not with the dead; ’tis from death l am free;
And ’tis thou that art with them—my darlings and thee.

For am I not still thy companion and friend? 
Or can death break the sealing that knoweth no end?
Where else should I be, love, than here at thy side;
Ever near thee to cheer thee, whatever betide?

And our babes, though bereft of a mother’s fond care
In the life I have left; shall they not claim a share.
Of that love which alone may the ransomed e’er know,
As they lave in its waters, or bask in its glow?

Is memory immortal? Aye, ever and e'er;
All that life hath e’er known, or forgotten, is here
Plainly writ in the book of the soul, where we read
Of the heart’s every hope, of the past's every deed.

Ne’er grieves the glad spirit o’er pains that are past,
Nor sighs for earth’s pleasures, too sinful to last;
For the summit is gained, and the mystery riven
Of the wisdom of God and the glory of heaven.
							O. F. WHITNEY. 
To my dear friend Hebe, October, 1888.


NEW ORGANIZATION.
	On Tuesday, Oct. 16, 1888, a meeting was held
at Hunter Ward, Salt Lake Stake, for the purpose 
of organizing a Relief Society, Bishop Miller pre-
siding. Meeting opened by singing, “On the
mountain tops appearing,” etc. Prayer by Coun.
J. T. Evans. Singing, “An angel from on high,”
etc.
	The Bishop made a few suitable remarks in re-
gard to the object of the meeting, and Prest. M.
I. Horne followed him, speaking concerning the ob
ject and effect of these organizations; referred to
the many benevolent institutions in the East, and
also to the interviews and conversations she had
with the people she met while abroad.
	After she had concluded, the Bishop spoke of
his interest in the matter, and his anxiety to have
the sisters in his ward organized in conformity
with others, and nominated Sister Jeanette Coch-
ran to act as President of the Relief Society of
Hunter, and Sisters Charlotte Neilson and Eliza-
beth Evans, Counselors, Mary Cochran, Secre-
tary, and Sarah Morris, Treasurer. These
officers were unanimously sustained, and seventeen
sisters who were present gave their names and
were enrolled as members of the Society. The
President and other officers were then set apart
by the Bishop and his Counselors; Bishop Hard-
man, of Pleasant Green, was present and as-
sisted. 
	After the organization was completed the
Bishop made some remarks upon local duties, and


alluded to the counsel given at the late General
Conference.
	Sisters E. S. Taylor and E. B. Wells each
addressed the meeting a short time, principally
in regard to the position occupied by the women
of Zion, and the many responsibilities resting
upon them. Exhorted all to diligence and faith-
fulness.
	Sister Horne gave some explicit instructions to
the sisters in relation to the newly organized So-
ciety, and spoke upon union particularly.
	Elder Joseph Horne occupied a few minutes,
dwelling mostly on the importance of teaching the
children the principles of the Gospel in their
early years.
	After singing, the benediction was pronounced
by Elder A. A. Jones.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SILK INDUSTRY.
To the Presidents of the various Stake and Ward
	Organizations of the Relief Society:

	The re-commencement of the silk industry after
fourteen years of incessant labor in its advocacy
is a great pleasure to me. The Government has
promised to assist us by distributing silk-worm
eggs and other necessary support to encourage the
industry in this Territory, and will also purchase
the cocoons at the market price, so that we may
raise them, there having been $20,000 expended
to establish suitable and excellent machinery in
the District of Columbia, under the auspices of the
United States Agricultural department. They have
also established a Division, department, known as
the Silk Division, which I am, by their desire,
furnishing all the information and statistics I can
give them.
	I therefore suggest, that each ward and settle-
ment form themselves into united effort, and make
the enterprise a success. Some one who under-
stands the raising of the worms and cocoons
should lead out, so as to instruct and assist others
with the knowledge they possess, and by that
and any other means, we may be enabled to realize
a good amount of means, which would be in cash,
which we all like to handle.
	 Any of the sisters or Societies wanting any in-
formation on the subject, by writing to me will be
duly answered, by sending postage stamp for the
same. I would like to visit you, but I am almost
past being able to travel, and especially alone
having passed eighty-three summers.
					DANIEL C. GRAVES, Supt.


[Column 1]
﻿THE LAND OF THE CENTER STAKE.
	Elders Edward Stevenson, J. S. Black and An-
drew Jenson have been making a visit during the
last two months to many of the points of interest
associated with the early days of the Church.
Their sketches have been presented to the public
in a series of well written, historical letters,  pub-
lished in the Deseret News, and have attracted
wide interest. The following letter, written from
Kansas City, Sept. 12, 1888, by Elder Jenson, will,
we think, be particularly interesting, because of
its memoir of John E. Page, given by his aged
widow and his son, and because of its reference
to the prophetic Jackson County, of which the
Saints so love to hope and sing. Bro. Jenson
says:	
	Yesterday, before leaving Independence, we
visited the widow of the late John E. Page. She
lives near the Temple lot, and is about 70 years
old. From her and her son, Justin E. Page, who
owns a blacksmith shop immediately south of and
facing the Temple lot, we learned that the late
John E. Page, after absenting himself from the
Church, located in De Kalb County, Illinois,
where he engaged in farming. Later he removed
to a point about six miles north of Sycamore, De

[Column 2]
Kalb County, where he died in the fall of 1867,
being then 68 years and 8 months old. According
to his own request, he was buried under an ash-
tree on his own farm. His son declared that he
died in full faith in the divinity of the Book of
Mormon and the prophetic calling of Joseph
Smith. After his death the widow removed with
the children to De Kalb, and later located at Inde-
pendence, Missouri. Besides the two sons who
reside in the latter place, a daughter of John E.
Page now lives in Tennessee, and a third son
resides in Kansas.
	As Jackson County, the land of Zion, where the
Saints in the near future expect to build a temple
to the Most High, and also a holy city, in which
the Lamb of God shall dwell in peace, I have
taken the pains to collect the following from
various reliable sources:
	Jackson County is located in north latitude 39
degrees and 4 seconds; its northwestern corner
commencing at the confluence of the Kansas
River with the waters of the Missouri, the latter
of which, for a distance of forty miles of its mean-
derings, separate it from Clay and Ray counties
upon the north. Upon a straight line the distance
is 27 miles from the eastern to the western bound-
ary. The length of the eastern boundary north
and south is 23 miles, and the extreme length
from its most northern point upon the Missouri
River to its southern line is 27 miles. It is
bounded on the east by Lafayette and Johnson
counties, south by Cass County, and west by
the Kansas State line, having an area of 385,404
acres.
	Jackson County presents some physical features
found in no other county in Missouri. There are
three elevations or ridges passing through it from
the south bearing northward 30 degrees east.
The water drained from these ridges feed streams
upon the east and west sides, those upon the east
side of the western ridge become tributaries to
the Big Blue, which discharges its waters into
the Missouri, six miles below the mouth of the
Kansas River, and those upon the western slope
empty into the Kansas. The waters drained from
central ridge form streams upon the west side that
also become tributaries to the Big Blue, and those
drained from the eastern slope empty into the
Little Blue, which forms the eastern boundary of
the second ridge. The waters of the Little Blue
are discharged into the Missouri at a point thirty
miles by the river line east of the Kansas.
Waters drained from the third or east ridge form
streams, that also become tributaries of the Little
Blue, flowing west, and those from the east side
flow into the Sni-a-bar, which discharges its
waters into the Missouri about three miles east
of the Northeast corner of the country. These
principal streams having their sources in the
country south and west of Jackson County are
made up of springs that are found upon the up-
lands in great number. Along the streams are
found bodies of excellent timber. The three
elevations mentioned passing through the county
north and terminate abruptly on the Missouri
River the middle one having an elevation of 354
feet above high water mark at a point four miles
north of Independence. The western ridge ter-
minates at Kansas City at an elevation of 292 feet
above high water mark, and the eastern ridge
breaks off near the northeast corner of the coun-
ty. These three elevations, running nearly par-
allel with each other, the eastern and western
approaching the central, finally unite, or consoli-
date in one general elevation about five miles
south and five miles east of the southwest corner
of the county, forming a topographical elevation,
the general direction of which is southwest, and
may be followed by the continued elevation to the
summit of Pike’s Peak, in Colorado, without
crossing a single stream of water.
	These elevations with their perfect drainage
present an exceedingly pure atmosphere through-

[Column 3]
out the entire county, thus precluding the possi-
bility of malaria to exist to any great extent.
Hence it is one of the most healthy and desirable 
places of Missouri from a sanitary standpoint.
	It can be safely estimated that 300,000 acres of
the entire area are susceptible of high cultivation
for agricultural purposes. The soil is very rich
and fertile and the river bottoms are susceptible
of yielding a larger crop per acre than any other
lands northwest of the Mississippi River. The
lands upon which the huckleberry grows are re-
garded as being the richest and most productive.
Wheat and Indian corn are raised in abundance.
The wonderful blue grass grows spontaneously
and its beautiful carpet covers the whole country,
lending beauty to lawns and door yards, and
wealth to innumerable pasture lands. Under
cultivation or in prepared ground its spears grow
to the enormous height of four feet, and its seed
spikes stand firm and erect at the height of two to
three feet. This grass excels all others as a pas-
ture grass. The earliest in spring to attract the
lowing herd, it is the last to succumb to the frosts
and snows of winter, after having furnished good
grazing all through the spring, summer and au-
tumn months. Timothy, orchard grass and red
clover also grow with great rapidity when culti-
vated.
	Being located upon the highest elevation of land
between the Rocky and Allegheny mountains the
air in Jackson County is pure, healthy and sali-
brious. The sky is generally clear; there is
scarcely a day but what some sunshine is seen,
and snow in winter rarely lies on the ground over
a week or ten days.
	Jackson County is especially adapted for stock
raising.
	Of the many sorts of timber which grow to
great perfection are the huckleberry, ash, oak,
elm, hickory sugar, maple, walnut etc.; the latter
has attained a height of from 50 to 100 feet in the
county.
	The county is well supplied with springs of liv-
ing water gushing out upon every hill side. Wells
of from 10 to 50 feet deep give a supply of good
limestone water.
	Jackson County is known for its fine orchards.
Apples, pears, peaches, cherries, plums, quince
and grapes are raised in abundance, and in the
berry line, strawberries, raspberries, blackberries,
etc.
	Independence, the country seat, is one of the
oldest towns in Northwestern Missouri, having
been laid out in 1827 by commissioners appointed
by the General Assembly of Missouri, to pre-empt
a tract of land upon which to locate a country
seat for Jackson County. The original plat con-
tained 240 acres, upon which there are sixteen
springs of pure crystal water. Since then the
city has been largely added to, and the additions
made now include 600 acres within the corporate
limits. The town is located upon an elevation of
1,75 feet above the Atlantic Ocean, and 338 feet
above the level of the Missouri River, being the
highest point in Northwestern Missouri, or be-
tween the Allegahny and Rocky Mountains, along
the same lime of latitude. The court house is
located in the centre of one of the highest eleva-
tions. The grounds upon which it stands com-
prise one acre and a half, being beautified by,
trees and a magnificent lawn of blue grass. From
the cupola of the court house a most beautiful
view can be had of the surrounding country. In
1881 there were 38 stores, 3 colleges and 12
church edifices in Independence. Now there are
a number more. In 1881 the town contained 3,250
inhabitants; now they claim upwards of 5,000.
	There is at present about as much prospect for
the Saints to return to Jackson County to possess
it as there was anciently for the children of Israel
to return to Jerusalem from their captivity in
Babylon, after the seventy years predicted by the
Prophet as the period of bondage were ended


when the wicked Belshazzar mocked the God of
Israel by desecrating the holy vessels taken from
the Temple in Jerusalem. The events of a single
night at that time, however, so completely changed
the condition of the children of Israel, that that
which a day before seemed an utter impossibility,
now became comparatively easy, and the words of
the Prophet were literally fulfilled. Israel did
return to their own land. So, also, shall the words
of the Lord be fulfilled in regard to the Latter-day 
Israel. Zion shall be redeemed as the Prophets
have told, and the Saints occupy this land of their
inheritance.
						ANDREW JENSON.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.
		SAN JUAN STAKE

DEAR SISTER WELLS:
	The Relief Society of San Juan Stake held its
quarterly conference at Monticello, Aug. 27th,
1888, commencing at 9 a.m., Prest. Jane M.
Walton presiding. A number of the brethren
were present, including Prest. F. A. Hammond
and Counselors, and the bishops of the various
wards. After the usual preliminaries of sing-
ing and prayer, the minutes of the previous
conference were read and approved.
	Prest. Jane M. Walton made a few remarks;
prayed that we might have the Spirit of God
in our meeting; encouraged the sisters to do
what is right, and wished the young  sisters to
attend the Relief Society.
	Prest. Mary Roberts reported the Mancos
Society; said it was in a thriving condition.
The teachers had done a good work among the
sisters. Felt like going forward and doing all
the good she could. Prayed the Lord to bless
us all.
	Prest. Jane M. Walton spoke of selecting a
Stake Secretary, and Sister Sarah Jane Roger-
son was chosen, unanimously sustained, and
set apart by Prest. F. A. Hammond. The
former Secretary was honorably released, hav-
ing done a good work.
	Sister Jane Perkins bore a faithful testimony
to the work of God. Exhorted the sisters to
keep the word of wisdom.
	First Coun. to Prest. F. A. Hammond en-
dorsed what had been said by the previous
speaker; gave some very valuable instruction 
to the sisters.
	The officers of the Stake were presented 
and sustained.
	Prest. F. A. Hammond made pertinent re-
marks concerning attending meeting. Said
not to let anything hinder us from attending
meeting; and when we came to conference to 
stay till it was over. Exhorted the Saints to
sustain those who were placed over them.
	Prest. Jane M. Walton made a few closing
remarks; advised the officers to be in union
with each other and with their bishops.
		JANE M. WALTON, President,
		SARAH JANE ROGERSON, Secretary.

		  HYRUM PRIMARY.
	The Primary Association of Hyrum held its
annual meeting Oct. 2nd, 1888, at 10 o’clock
a.m. There were present on the stand Stake
Prest. Jane E. Molen, Acting Coun. Emma
Pike, Coun. James Unsworth, Prest. Martha
Allen, 1st District, Prest. Phenella Allen, 2nd
District, Prest. Maria Hanson, 3rd District,
Sisters Johnson, Stevens and others of the
Relief Society and Y. L. M. I. A. 
	Meeting opened with singing. Prayer by
Bro. C. F. Olsen. Singing, “In our lovely
Deseret.” Minutes of the last annual meeting
read and accepted. Reports of the 1st, 2nd
and 3rd Districts were read and accepted. A
well selected programme was rendered, which
consisted of songs, essays, recitations and dia-
[column 2]
logues, interspersed with short speeches from
the brethren and sisters.
	Coun. James Unsworth said, “I can see
 much improvement in  the Primary since my
last visit, which I am thankful for.” En-
couraged the children to attend their meetings,
for the time would come when they would be
called to fill responsible positions.
	Stake Prest. Jane E. Molen: "I am proud
of the exercises this morning; they are all
selections from our own Church works, and so
well rendered. I can see a marked improve-
ment, and am pleased to see so many of the
mothers come to meeting; it shows they are
also interested in their children.” Asked the
children to give them a vote of thanks.
	Sister Pike, of Logan, was very pleased to
see so many boys come up to the front, and
said, “Your exercises have been a credit to all
your Presidents, and your selections have been
very good.” Related an incident of childhood.
Said, “We should be willing to lend a helping
hand to the poor and needy; we should be
prayerful to God.” Spoke of the Fair in
Logan; thought it was very good. Said it
would be a good idea for the presidents to
visit each other’s ward. Bro. Pike also made
a few remarks. Singing. Benediction by
Bro. Orson Wilson.
			ALICE UNSWORTH, Cor. Sec.

	 	      UTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of the quarterly conference of the
Relief Society of Utah Stake, which con-
vened in the meeting house, Provo City, on
Aug. 31st, 1888. Prest. Mary John being
absent, Counselors Emily G. Cluff and Marilla
M. Daniels presided. Conference opened by
singing and prayer. Minutes of former con-
ference were read and approved. Written
reports from the different branches were also
read; four branches failed to send their reports.
	Sister Marilla Daniels was pleased to meet
with us again; felt to pray that the Spirit of
the Lord might be with us while we are to-
gether. Spoke of the absence of Sister John
on account of sickness, and of the duties
devolving upon each member of the Society,
more especially the teachers, what those duties
were, etc.
	The presidents of the different branches
through the County were called upon to give
verbal reports, and responded with few excep-
tions. The reports showed an increase of
faith and unity among the faithful few which
are found in every branch. The forenoon be-
ing taken up with hearing reports, conference
adjourned till 2 p.m.
	Conference  met at 2 p.m. as per adjourn-
ment. Sister Emily G. Cluff said we would
now hear from the southern part of the County,
as we had heard from the northern part in the
morning. The sisters gave good and encourag-
ing reports from each branch, and all bore a
strong and faithful testimony to the truth of
this work.
	Bishop Packard, from Springville, being
present, spoke in praise of the Society of
Springville. Spoke of the organization of
this Society; had seen the words of the Prophet
Joseph verified in numerous instances, where
he said the poor should weep for joy at being
helped by the Relief Society. “There is no
one need want, if they will let their wants be
known. The teachers are active and diligent
in their duties.”
	Bishop Halliday, of Santaquin, felt that the
Relief Society had done a great deal of good;
they had been a great help to him, and he felt
to thank them for it. “The good that has
been done by this Society will never be appre-
ciated on this side of the veil, but will be
commemorated hereafter. You should be pre-
pared to comfort with spiritual as well as tem-
poral food. If Sister Smoot could do so, she
[column 3]
would, no doubt, with Sister Eliza meet with
you here to-day. They would say, ‘Sisters, do
be faithful; do not be discouraged.’ When we
do the best we can we feel approved here, and
will receive rewards hereafter. There is a
great work to be done till all are redeemed; do
not give up, but be faithful as long as you live.
I feel to bless you in the name of the Lord.
Amen.”
	Emily G. Cluff wished to bear her testimony
to the truth of this work. “Our time is up;
let us keep the good Spirit with us.” Asked
the sisters to be punctual in sending in their
reports. Closed by praying God to be with us.
	After singing and prayer, conference ad-
journed for three months.
		CAROLINE DANIELS, Secretary.

	    BOX ELDER STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Box Elder Stake convened in the
Tabernacle, Brigham City, on the 11th of
September, 1888, at 10 o'clock a.m., Prest.
Harriet A. Snow presiding. After singing,
“Come, let us anew,” etc., prayer was offered
by Sister Harriet Hunsaker. Singing. Roll
called. Minutes of previous conference read
and accepted.
	Prest. H. A. Snow: “I consider it our duty
to educate ourselves up to our privileges; it
takes a little means to carry on the work
properly; we need to be energetic. In order
to have confidence in each other, we must live
up to our duties, speak well of each other, and
not notice the faults of others too much, but
watch ourselves, for we must overcome our
failings, and be faithful.”
	Statistical and financial reports from fifteen
different branches were read by the Secretary,
Mary E. Snow.
	Prest. Dewey, of Deweyville: “It gives me
joy that I have a testimony for myself; I have
a desire in my heart to be humble and faith-
ful."
	Prest. Harper, of Calls Fort, spoke of the
difficulties for mothers to come from a distance.
	Prest. Petersen, of Bear River City: “I feel
thankful that I am able to be here.” Sister
Petersen had recently recovered from a severe
sickness.
	Prest. Harriet Hunsaker, of Honeyville:
“We need to be instructed from day to day,
that we may not fall away.” Spoke of the
danger in pleasure seeking.
	Prest. Christina Jensen, of Mantua: “We
must exert ourselves to attend our meetings.
We always receive encouragement and strength
by speaking one to another.”
	Prest. Hubbard, of Willard City: “I re-
joice that I have been kept in the faith; I am
thankful for all the blessings we enjoy. It is a
time when we should be prayerful. What a
blessing that we have a Father in heaven;
what a blessing to be a Saint, but I realize
every day how hard it is to be a Saint in very
deed. How beautiful it is to be a Latter-day
Saint; it is those who will receive the reward of
the faithful.”
	Coun. Olivia Widerborg: “We can not
afford to neglect our duties.” Spoke of seri-
culture and home-manufacture of hats. “I
believe in a practical religion.”
	Miss Fannie Graehl read the account of the
Stake Treasury. Singing. Benediction by
Coun. Susannah P. Boothe.
	Afternoon session: Singing. Prayer by
Coun. Adolph Madsen. The Stake board pre-
sented by Mary E. Snow and sustained.
	Coun. Susannah Boothe: “We are not all
tried in the same manner; some are tried in one
way, some in another.” Spoke of the hard-
ships of the pioneers.
	Prest. of 2nd Ward, Mary E. Snow: “I
often wonder if I appreciate fully the great
blessings I enjoy.”


Prest. Jensen, 3rd Ward: “I realize we do
not fulfill our duties as we ought to; each one
must work for herself to obtain an experience.”
	Prest. Watkins, 4th Ward, and Emilia D.
Madsen spoke next.
	Sister Sophia Hubbard: “I feel I have
passed through too much to become slack in
my duties.”
	Sister Susannah Facer: “There are not
many of us that escape trials, but let us strive
to pass through them with grace; they will be
sanctified unto us.”
	Sister Harding: “We should take the
Juvenile Instructor and other good works, that
our sons and daughters may find good and in-
teresting reading matter at home.”
	Prest. Rudger Clawson: “I would have been
well satisfied to sit and listen to the testimonies
of the sisters. One great effect of these meet-
ings is that it will awake us, that we may not
go to sleep. This is a good occasion, every 
three months to ask ourselves, ‘Have we im-
proved? In the last three months am I a better
woman, or a better man?’ There is a wonder-
fully large field of labor before you, but I think 
the mother’s greatest mission is to instruct and
educate her children.”
	Bishop Dewey: “I feel we are equally en-
gaged, male and female; our works are a little
different, but all tending to save souls.”
	Coun. Adolph Madsen: “I regret to occupy
the time that belongs to the sisters; I rejoice
for the good feelings in this part of the Lord’s
work.”
	Bishop Hansen, 4th Ward: “I rejoice in be-
ing here. I think very often our trials are
magnified in our imaginations; when I was in
the ‘Pen’ I felt as though I had no trials.”
Prest. Harriet Snow: “I believe we have all
been benefited; we all should wish to learn,
that we may be a blessing to humanity. I 
should feel more encouraged to gain good
health by striving to fill my duties in the king-
dom of God.”
	Singing. “Lord, dismiss us with thy bless-
ing.” Benediction T. F. Madsen.
	EMILIA D. MADSEN, Cor. Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Every newspaper, no matter where it is
printed, is opened at the frontier offices in
Russia and carefully looked over before being
sent to its address, and objectionable matter is
stamped out.
	In Lincoln County, Washington Territory,
the Republicans have nominated Mrs. Pryor
for school superintendent, but under the late
Supreme Court decision women are not eligible
to this office in the Territory.
	A few years ago it was thought improper for
a woman to be a foreign missionary unless she
were a missionary’s wife. Now there are 2,400
unmarried woman in the mission field, besides
probably an equal number of married women.
	Mrs. Hu King Eng, a daughter of one of
the native Chinese preachers, who is preparing
herself for missionary work, has finished her
course in the Ohio Wesleyan University, at
Delaware, O., and entered the Medical College
in Philadelphia.
	The only lady who was assigned a part in the
literary programme of the two educational
days at the Ohio Centennial Exposition, was
Miss Maria Jacques, the principal of the Day-
ton public schools, who gave an interesting ad-
dress on “The Schools of the Future.”
	Col. T. W. Higginson is nominated for Con-
gress by the Democrats of the Fifth Congres-
sional District, Mass. He is taking an active
part in the canvass. If elected, we are sure of
his vote for a sixteenth amendment. His op-


ponent, Gen. Banks, is also a friend of woman
suffrage.
	Mormon missionaries are making such pro-
gress in the rear townships of Wales that
Rev. A. E. Whatham, the Church of England
clergyman in Cardiff and Monmouth, has found
it necessary to meet them on the platform and to
challenge them to a discussion of their doctrines
in print. Mr. Whatham now makes a very
fair proposal to the Saints. He says he will
combat them in the columns of their own offi-
cial journal, and will leave it to a committee
composed of four professors of divinity, two
nominated by himself and two nominated by
the Mormons, to say who comes out best.—Ex.


HOUSEHOLD RECIPES.
	Cream Pie.—Cream: One pint of milk, two eggs, one
teaspooful corn starch, a little salt, sweeten to taste, and a
little butter. Paste: Three eggs one large teacup of sugar,
three tablespoonsful of water, one pint flour, one teaspoon-
ful yeast powder. Beat a long time. Bake the paste in
three pie-tins, take it out of the oven, cut each open, and
insert the cream, which must be cool.
	Lemon Pie.—Grate the yellow part of the rind from one
lemon, and squeeze out the juice; one cup of white sugar,
and one tablespoonful of butter, beat to a cream; two
tablespoonsful sweet milk, four eggs; mix all together and
pour into a crust-lined plate to bake. When done, beat the
whites of two eggs with two tablespoonsful of powdered
sugar, spread it over the pie and return to the oven to
brown.
	Pickles.—To make nine quarts of chow-chow take five
quarts of vinegar, three quarts of cucumbers, one head of
cauliflower, onions and tomatoes to suit. Soak them in
salt and water twenty-four hours, except the cucumbers;
put all in the vinegar and boil twenty minutes; add one
pound of Colman’s best mustard, one half bottle curry
powder, and ten cts. worth of tamerick. Wet the mustard,
curry powder and tamerick with vinegar, then turn into the
pickles, stir well and boil five minutes.


OBITUARIES.

[For the EXPONENT.]
	DIED, at Rockville Centre, Oct. 17th, 1888, Sister Amy
Soper, beloved daughter of Wm. R. and Mary E. Soper.
Deceased was baptized in the Fall of 1887, by Elder Chas
Penrose, and confirmed the same evening by Elders Pen-
rose and Hart. She was a young lady of most excellent
qualities, lovely and amiable. When the Relief Society
was organized in Rockville Centre she was appointed Secre-
tary of the same. She was a faithful Latter-day Saint,
although not yet twenty-one years of age, and was willing
to bear the scoffs and frowns of the world rather than reject
the Gospel of Christ. She was cut off by that dread
disease, typhoid fever, preventing  many of us who had
sickness in our own homes from visiting her during her ill-
ness. She leaves a large circle of friends, and we, the
members of the Relief Society, greatly mourn her loss, and
hope that we may emulate her good example, and be ever
true and faithful to the cause we have espoused.
		M. A. SOPER, Prest.
		M. B. P. HORSFALL, Coun.

	DIED, in the 20th Ward, Salt Lake City, at 11:30 p.m.,
Oct. 10, 1888, from the results of an operation for the
removal of an ovarian tumor, Ellen Clayton, wife of John
Miller, of Nephi. Born in Lancashire, England, June
12, 1823; embraced the Gospel in 1849, in St. Louis; emi-
grated to Utah in 1856; came to Nephi in 1863, where she
remained until within a few days previous to her death,
when she went to Salt Lake City for treatment. She was a
faithful teacher in the Nephi Relief Society since its
organization in 1868; was also a teacher in the Sabbath
School for many years. She died as she had lived, a
faithful Latter-day Saint.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Whereas, our Heavenly Father has seen fit to remove
from us our esteemed sister, Ellen Clayton Miller, President
of the teachers of the Nephi Relief Society, and,
	Whereas, we realize our loss in her death, therefore,
be it


Resolved, That her removal from our midst is deeply
felt.
	Resolved, That we deeply sympathize with her bereaved
husband and friends.
	Resolved, That a copy of these Resolutions be sent to
the Ensign and WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication, and
also be placed on the records of the Nephi Relief Society,
		AMY L. BIGLER,
		M. E. TEASDALE,
			Committee.

	DlED, at Coalville, Summit Co., Utah, August 31st,
1888, after a lingering illness, of pneumonia, Margaret
Gardner Robinson, wife of Elder John Robinson. Sister
Robinson was born Feb. 16th, 1836, near Coxhoe, Durham
Co., England. Was baptized into the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints in the year 1851; emigrated to
the United States in 1856, and came to Utah in Capt. John
R. Young's company of emigrants in 1863, stopping at
Coalville, where she continued to reside until her death,
except a temporary sojourn at Almy, Wyoming Ter., for
the past two years. Sister Robinson was connected with
our Relief Society from its earliest organization, her name
being found on the first list of enrolled members. Her
desires and labors from that time have been continuously
for the furtherance of the object for which our Society was
organized, and in the several offices to which she has been
called, her labors have always been faithfully and unremit-
tingly performed. Sister Robinson was no ordinary
woman in character or ability, A general sense of per-
sonal loss is felt by all who were privileged with her ac
quaintance. Warm-hearted, generous and kind, she drew
her friends close to her, and they loved her for her virtues.
	For her family we have heart-felt sympathy for their loss;
their separation is but for a time. She has gone to a well-
earned rest from life's troubles and toils, living in full faith
in the Gospel, she died in the full confidence of a Christian's
hope, awaiting the resurrection of the just.
		COM.
	Coalville, Oct. 20, 1888,


R.K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and production
in	
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TlES
And an elegant assortment of 
DRY GOODS:
Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and in-
fant’s Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to. 
	Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

