VOL. 17.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 15, 1888.	NO. 12.


SOMETHING GREAT.

The trial was ended—the vigil past;
All clad in his arms was the knight at last.
The goodliest knight in the whole wide land,
With face that shone with a purpose grand.
The king looked on him with gracious eyes,
And said, "He is meet for some high emprise."
To himself he thought: "I will conquer fate;
I will surely die, or do something great."

So from the palace he road away;
There was trouble and need in the town that day;
A child had strayed from his mother's side
Into the woodland dark and wide.
"Help!" cried the mother with sorrow wild—
"Help me, Sir Knight, to seek my child!
The hungry wolves in the forest roam;
Help me to bring my lost one home!"

He shook her hand from his bridle rein:
"Alas! poor mother, you ask in vain.
Some meaner succor will do, maybe,
Some squire or varlet of low degree.
There are mighty wrongs in the world to right;
I keep my sword for a noble fight.
I am sad at heart for your baby's fate,
But I ride in haste to do something great."

One wintry night when the sun had set,
A blind old man by the way he met:
"Now, good Sir Knight, for Our Lady's sake,
On the sightless wanderer pity take!
The wind blows cold, and the sun is down;
Lead me, I pray, till I reach the town."
"Nay," said the knight; "I cannot wait;
I ride in haste to do something great."

So on he rode in his armor bright,
His sword all keen for the longed-for fight.
"Laugh with us—laugh!" cried the merry crowd,
"Oh, weep!" wailed others with sorrow bowed.
"Help us!" the weak and weary prayed.
But for joy, nor grief, nor need he stayed.
And the years rolled on, and his eyes grew dim,
And he died—and none made moan for him.

He missed the good that he might have done,
He missed the blessings he might have won.
Seeking some glorious task to find,
His eyes to all humbler work were blind.
He that is faithful in that which is least,
Is bidden to sit at the heavenly feast;
Yet men and women lament their fate,
If they be not called to do something great.
		Selected.


[Column 1]

PICTURESQUE UTAH.

	In 1847, Brigham Young, with one hun-
dred and forty-two adherents ended their long
and toilsome journey across the plains, at the 
spot where Salt Lake City now stands. It is
devoutly believed by the Mormons that their
leader was divinely guided in the location of
Zion. Viewing the beauty and fertility of this
basin to-day it must look even more probable
than when this was an arid desert where eleven
plowshares were broken in the attempt to turn
the first furrow.
	Along the eastward side of this plain are the
Wasatch mountains, and on the west the
Oquirrh range. A scene of marvelous beauty
is spread out before the observer from Prospect
Tower, a sightly point of view north of the town,
which brings in a harvest of dimes to its en-
terprising builder. Mountain, lake and distant
fields add their beauty to that of the city lying
at our feet, with its hundred miles of streets,
and every tree-lined avenue a hundred and 
twenty feet wide allowing each fine architec-

[Column 2]

tural point its full value. Each block con-
tains ten acres, and the city is watered by
channels through which a creek is conducted.
The Mormons always mark their residences
with trees. Their old farms in Missouri and
Illinois are pointed out to-day by the locusts
that they planted. So all through the valley
their towns are beautified with shade, and in
Salt Lake City many of the homes are em-
bowered in the locust, the alanthos, and the
elm.
	The oldest residences in the city are of adobe,
and these plastered and vine-covered are by no
means unpleasing. The buildings first used
for Mormon worship and including Brigham
Young's residences, are surrounded by a quaint,
rude, high wall of cobblestones and mud, and
this still partly standing gives the city quite a
foreign appearance. In this enclosure is the
tithing office, which includes a huge market
for the sale of the produce which is brought in
as the voluntary contribution to the service of
the church—the restitution to Jehovah of his
share. This method has its advantages. Many
persons in other denominations religiously de-
vote the tenth of their substance, and attribute
their worldly prosperity to this observance,
just as the Mormon does. When a whole
church follows this custom it has this advan-
tage: there is no begging or dunning, or in-
debtedness and the contribution box is un-
known.
	Behind this wall with its massive gates is
the office of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, a paper
that reflects great credit on the literary and
poetic ability of its editor, Emmeline B.
Wells.
	The houses of the prophet, named the "Bee
Hive" and the "Lion House" from the orna-
ments over them, are here, and between these
are the church offices. The office of the
Deseret News, for many years the only journal
between San Francisco and the Missouri river,
is in the same block.  Next to the "Lion
House" the old wall stretches across the street
and an archway through which carriages pass,
is called the "Eagle Gate," from the bird
which spreads its wings above. We pass
through this to go to President Young's grave,
which is in a private lot fenced around by an
iron railing. The grave is also enclosed in the
same manner and covered by a massive granite
slab of many tons weight. There is no inscrip-
tion and no head stone. The graves of five of
his wives are in the same enclosure, and are
marked with the names: Mary Ann Angel
(the first wife); Augusta Adams Cobb; Eliza
R. Snow; Mary Van Cott, and Emeline Free.
How much of tragic history lies silent in these
graves. Eliza Snow, who is revered as a
prophetess and saint, was the widow of the
Prophet Joseph Smith, as was Zina D. Young,
who is still living, and is second only to Eliza
Snow in the hearts of the Mormons. She is
universally called Aunt Zina. To Eliza Snow,
who was a poet of no mean rank, is attributed
the first enunciation of the idea of the mother
element in the God-head, and her poem voicing
this thought is one of the favorite devotional
hymns in use at this period.
	The Tabernacle, Assembly Hall, and the
Gardo House were mentioned in the last letter.
The Temple is the central point of interest.
Its corner stone was laid in 1853, and knowing
what the architecture of this country was at
that date it seems strange to find a design of
such marvelous simplicity, beauty and grandeur,

[Column 3]

as is embodied in the wonderful granite of
which this building is being erected. It has
already cost over $2,000,000. Its foundations
are sixteen feet thick; its walls eight feet of
this solid sparkling granite; and its pillars,
partitions, and even its floors are of solid stone.
The carvings on the outer walls represent the
sun, moon, and stars.
	The most important structure connected
with business is the Zion Co-operative Mercan-
tile Institution, familiarly known as the Co-op.
Z. C. M. I. are initials that become familiar, as
they are not only on every article of merchan-
dise, but on the badge of all branch co-opera-
tive institutions in other Mormon towns. One
hundred and fifty emloyees are needed to con-
duct the business, which amounts annualy to
nearly $5,000,000, and which includes, beside
the salesrooms, a shoe factory, a tannery, a
clothing manufactury and drug store. It was
the intention at first that every member of
the church should be a stockholder. Gradually
the stock has passed into comparativley few
hands, but it is still conducted according to
the same principles. It points with pride to
that fact that it never makes "a corner." Not
long since every store in the city was out of a
certain article, except the Co-op, which sup-
plied the others without advancing the price.
	The city possesses churches of every denomi-
nation, including the Josephites, who are Mor-
mons—with a difference. The St. Paul's
Episcopal church is an attractive sight, being
covered with ivy. The whole business part of 
the city is solid, well-built and handsome.
There are long streets of residences, artistic,
spacious, with large yeards and exquisite flowers
and shrubbery, This way of being independ-
ent of the clouds and making the rain come at
will along the stone canals which thread the
city ensures abundant verdure and fruitage,
especially where the sky is as clear and the sun
as bright as in Utah.
	Liberty Park was the property of Brigham
Young, but was bought of his heirs for public
use. It is a mile around, and of its several
artesian wells, one is decidedly sulphurous, and
is much esteemed.
	The Exposition building, which was ap-
proaching completion, is a fine structure. The
public school buildings are surrounded by
lovely green sward and ornamental trees.
there are but few saloons, and the streets are
noticeably clean. The Mormons are opposed
to the use of liquor and tobacco. They have
no rule against it but their "Words of Wisdom,"
discountenance it, and these are regarded in
all the affairs of life. There were no saloons
in Utah previous to the incoming of the Gen-
tiles. In fact to the absence of these, and
their twin sister, the Salt Lake Tribune, six
years ago apparently attributed the devotion to
thier faith; for it said what was wanted to
educate the Mormon hoodlum was the intro-
duction of the saloon and the brothel. It is a
sorry fact that a belief in the efficiency of
these institutions is still held by the represen-
tatives of this leading paper, for on calling the
attention of one of them to the stand which
had been formerly taken, he replied: "Well, it
has educated them to some extent; it has given
them some good horse sense."
	Hearing from these people, to whom we were
talking temperance and purity, thier laments
that they could not keep the saloon entirely
from their midst, we inquired, "Why not, see-
ing the Mormons are in the majority the in city


[Column 1]

council?" "Because the courts always construe
the law in favor of the saloon." "Then why
not make a law to prohibit, or to enable you to 
prohibit?" was asked, "seeing that the Mor-
mons are in a majority in the legislature." At
last we found the answer in the fact that such
a bill had been passed by the last legislature,
and vetoed by the governor. By special legisla-
tion of Congress, the governor of Utah has an
absolute veto. His will can over ride that of
all the inhabitants in the territory, for from
his veto there is no taking a measure back to
the legislature. A bill relating to city govern-
ment, containing the clause enabling the coun-
cil "to license, regulate, tax or absolutely pro-
hibit the manufacturing, selling, giving away
or disposing of in any manner, any intoxicat-
ing, etc., was passed by a legislature of whom
31 out of 36 were Mormons, and when it went
to the governor, he drew his pen through the
words "absolutely prohibit," and so it became
a law, leaving the friends of temperance of all
faiths powerless to prevent the existence of the
saloon in their midst.
	The only charitable institution we had time
to visit beside the Home referred to in the last
letter, was the day nursery, which had nine-
teen children in its care. This appeared to be
the only benevolent work in which Gentile and
Mormon were united, it being managed by one
lady member from each church, including the
Mormon, of which Mrs. Emily Richards is the
representative. It is used for children of both
classes.
	Great Salt Lake is the "Mecca" of all tour-
ists, and a never-failing delight to the inhabit-
ants of the city. It is thus described in
Picturesque Utah, a lovely art book which has
just been issued from the press of Frank S.
Thayer in Denver, of which the text is by M.
Virginia Donaghe, a Denver lady, and which
is exquisitely illustrated by the albertype pro-
cess from original photographs by C. R. Savage,
a leading artist of Salt Lake City.
	"The sides of the near hills are girded by a
gleaming, unbroken line, and several hundred
feet below is a wider line—these are the water
marks of the great sea which once covered the
region and of which the lake is but the saline,
shrunken remnant. These ruins are made of
countless cobble stones and pebbles, round or
oval, and smooth from the action of the waves.
Below are the very ripple-marks of these an-
cient billows. This old, old lake-bed has been
traced for a distance of 250 miles, and embed-
ded in its forgotten shores have been discovered
large quantities of fresh-water shells; for this
body of water, then as large as Lake Huron,
and covering one fourth of Utah, once had an
outlet: This has been discovered at the head
of Cache Valley, passing out through Red
Rock Gap, thence to the Snake, and so to the
Columbia and Pacific. The upper beach line
is 900 feet above the present level of the lake,
and is even with the outlet. Then during the
changes and conclusions of the geological past,
the lake sank, and became dry, and filled
again, again to be swallowed up, and then yet
again to be a lake. But never could the new
sheet of water attain the level of its former
outlet. Therefore, hemmed in by impassable
barriers, it shrank within itself, and life in its
waters died away. Through constant evapora-
tion, the lake became more blackish—a veri-
table Dead Sea."
	Salt Lake is now more than fifty miles wide,
and a hundred and twenty-five miles long, di-
versified with mountain-top islands, which are
spurs of the Oquirrh and Aqui ranges. The
first description of the lake is given by Wash-
ington Irving, who chronicled the adventures
of Captain Bonneville, who is said to be the
first white man to see it. In 1859 Captain
Stansbury explored it. Fremont sailed it in a
rubber boat, and Kit Carson in a hollow log.
Every body has heard and read of this wonder-

[Column 2]

ful sheet of water, yet it is more strange,
beautiful and fascinating than words can de-
pict. Mrs. Saxon and I saw it under pleasant
circumstances. Although late for the bathing
season, the recent warm weather and the per-
fect sunny day rendered the water very com-
fortable. A party of friends accompanied us
into the water, and speedily initiated us into
the mysteries of floating. Of all the ridiculous
objects that the human frame is capable of
presenting, that of a person with head and feet
only out of water is the most laughable. Yet
who cares for the crowd in the pavilion above
as long as there is enough in the water to di-
vide the attention, and one can enjoy the bliss-
ful sensation of lying upon that briny bed. It
seems almost impossible to believe that even a
novice can rest so easily and completely with
only an occasional movement of the out-
stretched arms to maintain the equilibrium.
Garfield Beach is the finest of all the points
where the lake is used, and here are very fine
accomodations. After the bath we ate our
picnic supper, which was prepared as if by
magic on one of the long tables which are for
the use of visitors, and then we watched the
lake in the glory of the setting sun. That ex-
quisite word-painter before quoted has described
a sunset on the lake, just such a one as we saw,
in such fitting phrase that I quote it for the de-
light of the Tribune readers:
	"Salt Lake has its share in the proverbial
rich beauty of the Rocky Mountain sunset.
Bright and cheery by day, and subtly, sadly
mysterious by moonlight, it is all glorious at
setting sun. Its wide waters are aflame with
lances of scarlet and gold, gleaving the green
expanse, and its mirror reflects every fleck of
rose or band of salmon in the sky, where inter-
spaces of blue still linger. The shining sum-
mits of cloud land are flanked below by the
irradiated mountains; the Black Rock tones the
splendor with its sombre masses, til—evanes-
cent as beautiful—the glory vanishes; shadows
sweep down from the darkening peaks, and
the shimmering liquid plain fades to ashes of
roses."
	As we stood there watching the gulls
fly over the sunlit sea, one of those incidents,
and they are numerous, in the history of the
Mormon people, which led them to believe
they were specially guarded by a divine pro-
vidence, was related to us. During the early
days of the settlement, when the first crop was
growing, and nothing remained between the
colony and starvation during the coming
winter, but this promise of a plentious harvest,
the locusts came upon them in such numbers
as to threaten absolute destruction of every
growing thing. We that have watched the
sun darken with the silvery wings of this de-
vastating foe and the fruitful field become a
desert in a day, can realize with what feeling
these people gazed upon the scene. So far
from home and help, no possibility of com-
municating with the land of plenty, 1800 miles
overland from the supplies, what could save
them in such an hour. They resorted to prayer,
when lo! the west wind brought from the Aqui
mountains beyond the lake the gulls that dwell
there in innumerable quantities, and they set
upon and devoured the grasshoppers before
any considerable damage was done.
		C. B. C.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

INTERESTING VISIT.

DEAR SISTER WELLS:
	President Annie L. Ivins requested me to
give you a sketch of our trip to the western
settlements.
	President A. L. Ivins, with her Counselors,
M. B. Eyring and A. C. Woodbury, left St.
George on the 15th of Oct. about 8 o'clock in
the morning. We passed through the Santa

[Column 2]

Clara settlement, as we had visited that settle-
ment a short time ago. We traveled up the
Clara stream, as the road runs through the
stream most of the way to Gunlock; the
scenery is quite romantic. This road is quite
dangerous in stormy weather, owing to floods.
We arrived at Gunlock about 4 o'clock, ex-
pecting to hold meetings with the Relief So-
ciety and Primary. Our notice having been
delayed we had no meeting, as there were
some sick and others very busy.
	16th we started to Pine Valley. About four
miles from Gunlock is the famous Big Hill; it
is a wonder how loaded teams ever get over it.
I have often wished I had the eye of an artist,
that I could sketch some of the scenery in this
mountain region. We arrived at Pine Valley
and held meeting with the Relief Society at
4 o'clock, Sister Slade presiding. In the
evening met with the Primary, Sister Julia
Cox presiding; had a very good meeting.
	17th traveled to Pinto. It rained through
the day, so we met with the Young Ladies in
the evening, and the Relief Society sisters in
with them, Sister Lizzie Harrison presiding.
	18th went on to Hamblin; met with Primary,
Sister Mary Westover presiding. Here they
had not held meetings on account of the death
of some of their brightest children. There are
very few families here, owing to the scarcity of
water through floods. One family, Bro. Cam-
field, lost four children out of five. Sister
Westover chose Sister Tessa Camfield as First
Counselor, and Philena Emmet as her Second
Counselor; Olive Emmet, Secretary, and D. C.
Emmet Assistant Secretary.
	19th went on to Hebron, and met with the
R. S. at 2 o'clock, Sister Hester Pulsipher pre-
siding. The settlement all turned out here.
This settlement labors under a great disadvan-
tage, owing to the flues being washed away that
brought the water to the city. When we were
here last year they talked of moving to the
water, but I believe they concluded to rebuild
the flume. They have nice brick houses, but
quite a number of the people have decided to
move to Colorado. After meeting we drove
over to Bishop Terry's Ranch, where we were
kindly entertained by Sister Terry.
	20th traveled on thirty-five miles to Panacca.
Here we left Utah and went into Nevada; at
the summit we crossed the line staked out for a
railroad. I think about ten or fifteen miles
from Panacca there is no water on this route
till we get about ten miles from Panacca.
Here we were kindly entertained by Bishop
Lee and pleasant family.
	21st we met with the Sabbath School, Bro.
Samuel Lee presiding. He kindly turned it
over to the Primary; had a very nice meeting;
at 4 o'clock we met with the Relief Society.
22nd returned to Bishop Terry's ranch;
23rd traveled to Sister Camfield's and
had dinner; then went on to Bro. Frank
Foster's where we were kindly entertained by
their daughter. 24th returned home after
being out ten days and traveled about two
hundred miles.
	Trusting we have done some good for the
advancement of God's kingdom upon the
earth, ever praying for the welfare of Zion, I
remain, your sister in the Gospel.
		ANN C. WOODBURY


Harriet Beecher Stowe has made a most re-
markable recovery after a long illness which
even her nearest friends deemed fatal.
	Queen Victoria does not share the general
opinion that the gift of an opal is likely to
bring ill-luck to its owner. She has presented
each of her daughters, on their marriage, with
a parure of opals and diamonds. Her influence,
and that of her numerous offspring is said to
be doing much to rehabilitate the opal in the
good opinion of the public.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TO LOUISE.

I sing of a gown that was old ere 'twas new;
'Twas commenced, I believe, in eighteen eighty-two;
		Aunt Mell she began,
		Upon grandma's plan,
To make for her niecc, (every stitch was by hand,
From whipping of puff to hemming of bend,)
		A dress, if you please,
		For little Louise;
A dimpled young darling, who then was perhaps,
The age of eighteen months; and who took daily naps.
		I said she began it;
		Some unlucky planet,
Interrupted the making, when 'twas but cut out;
What with clubs and with topics, and gadding about,
	The gown was neglected and lay in a basket;
		Her mamma did not ask,
		Mell, to finish the task,
Being quite too polite to suggest "'twould not fit
If she waited much longer ere finishing it;"
		But she thought, I am sure,
		The making a failure,
	And wondered what planet had seen fit to blast it,
		But ah! Well, a day,
		How time slips away,
	'Twas two years—yes, three,—I'm ashamed to confess it,
	Ere this gown it was finished, from neckband to gusset,
And time; without warning, had played us such tricks,
	Louise had outgrown the original fashion,
	The skirt must be lengthened, the belt have a sash on,
As years had elapsed and the child was near six.
	
		So, at length, Auntie Mell,
		(For the gown it was well)
	Remov'd to the mountains, in seclusion to dwell;
And thinking the quiet would aid her endeavor
To finish this gown, (better late, friends, than never)
		She "fell to" again,
		With might and with main.
	She stitched every seam, and hemmed every ruff,
	She scratched all the gathers, and whipped every puff,
'Tis finished, at length, to the very last stitch,
Ev'ry button is fast, and I scarcely know which
	To admire the most, the patience or pattern;
	One thing's plain, in sewing, Aunt Mell is no slattern.
		The most critical eye
		Would fail to descry,
          A stitch to put in, take out, or gather awry.
		The victory's won!
		At last it is done!
	And I verilly believe, never under the sun,
	Was a gown, so long making, so early begun.

These rhymes are indited in love and contrition,
To my niece; who never, by voice, or petition,
Or spoiling her beauty by a tear or a frown,
Has entreated her Auntie "to finish that gown!"
	Murray, Oct. 27th, 1888.


[Column 1]

WANDERINGS.

	In wandering where one seeks forgetfulness,
and so far as possible avoids all commonplaces,
it is sweet to glide leisurely along such rivers as
the Rhine, where every stone and mound has a
gaunt or thrilling legend; or to climb an alpine
mountain, where every step must be taken with
caution, and every backward look fortells a
danger, or to travel to some spot where great-
ness dwelt and tales of those famous in the
pages of history, whether as monarchs, warriors,
or geniuses are told. In his works we forget
an author lived and breathed and loved and
died, we study not the man, but his productions,
and in after years when we chance in our
travels over the earth to seek the early homes
of greatness, little do we learn of the man's
true life; they tell us, perhaps, that here he
lived, or here he wrote, or here he died and
there he lies buried. A stone marks the spot,
and in a neighboring town, may be, a statue
stands in memory to his greatness, or in a
neigboring church or abbey can be found a
monument to his fame. The truly great need
no monuments, their works live forever in the
hearts and minds of the people. What could
be built to Shakespeare's memory that could

[Column 2]

speak to us of his fame, and there are others;
each country has its own. It is not the country
that attracts and draws a people to wander
from native shores, it is that country's genius.
True, some lands far exceed others in beauty
and lovliness, yet each has its own peculiar
phases. We admire Ireland for its verdant
beauty, and Scotland for its highlands and
rocks and lakes, England for its wondrous
cities, its magnificent parks, its forests and
"green lanes," Norway for its pines and firs,
Switzerland for her stupendous, snow-clad
mountains and crystal lakes, Italy for her
glorious sunsets, her delightful climate, but
these things alone do not render countries great.
Nature has been so impartial that her bounties
have been bestowed in every clime, and it needs
more than a beautiful sunset, an exhilerating
air or a fine mountain scene to tempt man to
wander over miles of land and sea, it is the
romance of a land that renders it interesting,
that lures the stranger to her shore.
	When we enter a land where any author
lived we look for the homely details of that
author's life; we visit the home where he was
born, we walk in the paths he trod; we cull a
flower or a leaf from his grave, and we ask,
"What of him? What know you of his early
life?" Who would think of going to Scotland
and not visiting the home of her favorite bard,
Robert Burns, and with that name how in-
stinctively do we couple the name of his High-
land Mary. When we turn from Shakespeare's
home, how naturally we wander towards Ann
Hathaway's cottage, and after visiting his
grave what more can be done than to seek for
her's. Yearly hundreds of travelers go over
the same hallowed spots, think over the past of
great men's lives, and as they stoop to pluck a
flower, perhaps a few drop a tear over the
graves of their early loves, whom they know
to be the themes of these great men's songs.
How little does the world know of these maids
who so enjoyed their confidences, and may be
had the happiness to assist, or at least suggest
with some of the works that now give us such
delight. Of the men themselves, everything
remains; they have become to the world through
their genius immortal; of the women what—a
grave—only a grave, yet that grave is a
memory, not because the one who lies beneath
achieved for herself any greatness, but because
she was of greatness the beloved.
	If England had no other fame more than
that she was the home of Shakespeare, that
alone would be sufficient to draw the stranger
to her home, for in himself is he not a study?
Italy attracts for many things, but she needs
none other when she claims a Dante for her
son, and Germany ranks with England and
Italy, great among greatest, for she has in
Goethe a genius as great as either. And these
are the men of whom men write; that each was
in himself a department of knowledge, one be-
longing to the medeival world, one to the
great epoch of the Renaisence, and one to
modern times, and that a study of Dante,
Shakespeare or Goethe would be worthy the
best seasons of a man's life. And these men
loved and were like others, softened by the
gentle influences of womankind.
	As we traverse the broad country of Ger-
many on every side in all her largest cities and
in almost every hamlet, the eye rests on monu-
ments and statues erected to the memory of
her greatest genius—Goethe—art has excelled
itself in honor to his fame, but there lies in a
more touching memory, a monument to his
affections near the little village of Sessenheim
stands on a wooded hill a pretty arbour, where
the young poet spent many hours in happy
converse with his early love, a place for that
very fact now almost a sanctuary, where the
many admirers of Goethe make their pilgrim-
ages, and a few wander farther on that beautiful
way where the mountains of the Black Forest

[Column 3]

cast their sombre shadows o'er the valley of the
placid Neckar to the little cemetery of Meissen-
heim to stand by the tomb of Frederica Brion
and indulge in fanciful thoughts of this young
German maid whose name is now almost for-
gotten but, who once shared the affections of so
great a man.

	Man's greatness, fame and goodly deeds
		Sweep the earth like a triumphant wave;
	But his heart, his dreams, his inner life—
		Lie buried in the grave.

			CAMELIA.


LUCK IN HORSESHOES.  

	The old superstition of nailing a horseshoe
over the door of a house as a protecrion against
evil spirits and an assurance of good luck is as
widely spread in the United States as it is in
England or Ireland. It also prevails among
nearly all Teutonic and Scandinavian races
and flourishes largely in the East and West
Indies and Hindoostan. There are three
elements united in the horseshoe—in the first
place it is crescent shaped; secondly, it is a
portion of a horse, and lastly it is made of iron.
Popalar superstition has long endowed iron
with protecting qualities. During the time of
the plague in Rome the inhabitants of the
Eternal City drove nails in the walls of their
houses as a safeguard against the dread dis-
ease. When the Arabs in the desert are over-
taken by the deadly simoon they seek succor
from heaven by crying,  "Iron! iron!" Celtic,
Finnish and Welsh superstitions all agree that
against witchcraft iron is considered the only
guard. Custom even recites that it has always
been considered a good omen to find old iron,
and particularly to find an old horseshoe. In
the mythology of England horses were and are
to this day looked upon as luck-bringers. In
some parts of England nowadays it is still
thought that many forms of disease can be
cured by burning a horse alive. A horse's
hoof placed under an invalids' bed is con-
sidered a specific for many complaints in the
north of Scotland. Many years ago in Ireland,
so it is said, upon the death of a horse its feet
and legs were hung up in the house, and even
 the hoofs are kept sacred. All of which, it is
claimed, serve as a preventative of ill luck or
disease.
	Even in New York, among a certain class,
the horseshoe may be seen nailed up over many
a house or shop door. The well-known song
which was sung by Edward Harrigan a few
years ago made a lasting impression, and
served to remind many of the luck attending
old iron shoes. One of the stanzas was:

	"There's a story that is told in Irish history,  
		Far beyond the days of King Boru,
	That luck will surely always wait upon you 
		If you pick upon the road a horse's shoe."

	On account of its form historians state that
the qualities formerly accorded to the crescent
have been transferred to the horseshoe. The
Chinese build their tombs at the present day
in a semicircular form like a horseshoe, and the
Moore use it in their architecture. Lord
Nelson nailed a horseshoe to the mast of his
flagship Victory, and guarded it as if it had
been a citadel.—Selected.


London, Nov. 3.—Lord Tennyson is seri-
ously ill from a rheumatic attack. The Gov-
ernment physicians pronounced him last
Thursday as recovering. Yesterday he had a
critical relapse.
	The Empress of Japan has established a
college for women, to be superintended by a
committee of foreign ladies. Two of these are
Americans, two English, and the other two
French and German respectively.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	November 15, 1888.


[Column 1]

THE DEL MONTE & MONTEREY.

	From San Francisco along the Southern Pacific
line to Monterey the scenery is very picturesque.
The first station is Ocean View, a handsome
little place. Passing on through small towns
with pretty little cottages, trees, vines and shrub-
bery, one comes upon San Mateo, a town older
and larger than most of the others and which is
spoken of as a place desirable to see, but one
has no chance to observe much from a railway
train in motion and the stopping is almost always in
an uninteresting part of the town. On and on
again, we arrive at Menlo Park where there are
very handsome grounds laid out and beautified,
that are a delight to the eye of the traveler.
Further on is Mayfield, which one would presume
has the appearance of May all the year round,
flowers always fresh, and leaves green; then after
two more waits at commonplace towns we
reach Santa Clara, where there are some large
and handsome residences and grounds, and the
fruits are very fine.
	The next place is San Jose, and here we had
decided to stop off a few hours, wait for the next
train, and hunt up some cousins. Here we
walked around up and down making inquiries etc.
for as we had heard much of the fame of San
Jose, we were anxious to see for ourselves. It is we
are told, a town of about 30,000 or more inhabit-
ants, many of them very wealthy. An elegant
new City Hall has been built recently, and a large
hotel called the Melville; there are street cars
running there, and altogether, it seemed to be a
prosperous and thriving city. We dined at the
Lick House, and indeed felt anxious to stay over
and go up to the Lick Observatory, but, learning
that it would require one whole day's time, we
denied ourselves the pleasure, as time was an ob-
ject in making this journey.
	After dinner we started out again and succeeded
in finding one of the relatives we had been search-
ing for; we had to introduce ourselves, of course,
but we were graciously received notwithstanding
we were from Utah. The lady soon harnessed
her horse and went with us to what is known
there as "The Willows," just at the outskirts of
the town, where there is a great deal of fruit-dry-
ing and packing done. We were looking for Mrs.
Marilla M. Ricker, of Washington, we learned
from her cousin, a sweet Quakeress, she had
gone down to Santa Barbara, so we left our
cards and drove back to the centre of the town.
Mrs. Reese pointed out many places of interest,
and drove out to the district or streets occupied by
the Spanish Mexicans, so we had a chance to see
and hear something about their life and habits,
from one well acquainted with her subject. Hear-
ing and seeing reminded the writer strongly of
Helen Jackson's story Ramona.

[Column 2]

	After returning with Mrs. Reese to her home
we conversed upon current topics, and discussed
woman-suffrage and equal rights etc.,
	Miss Olive Reese an Ohio girl from Willoughby
was quite an advocate of advanced ideas. but
seemed to think California people were scarcely
prepared for woman's advancement. She had
been trying to organize societies of the W. C. T. U.,
and had met with some opposition, and a great
deal of ridicule and sarcasm. We took tea with
our new found cousin and family and immediately
after bade good-bye, and proceeded on our way to
the train, arriving just in time to catch the evening
train for Monterey. From San Jose to Monterey
the ride was uninteresting on account of the
darkness, and as we were very weary it added
much to our discomfort; therefore, we rejoiced
when we came in sight of the Del Monte station.
When we allighted and filed into the Hotel buss
along with about twelve or fifteen others as tired
seemingly, as we were. Entering by a few wide
steps under a portico, we were ushered into a
large hall where an immense open fire-place was
blazing with light from huge pine logs on large
old-fashioned fire-dogs. The brilliancy of the
gas light from the chandelier added to the cheer-
ful effect, and we waited in silence for our turn to
register; as we were only two ladies traveling
alone we were the last served, but finally our turn
came; and after some inquiries as to prices etc.
we registered from Salt Lake City. The clerk,
in a business like manner, informed us that dinner
would be over at eight, and it was then half past
seven; so we took the elevator to the third
story, hurridly made our evening toilet and de-
scended to the dining-room. We were seated at
one of the tables with some of our fellow-passen-
gers, and as one invariably does among strangers,
we began to take notes, in a quiet way, of the
party. There was an elderly man and his wife,
some years younger, which I knew the moment I
saw them, and a boy of perhaps eight or nine,
two young women and a gentleman with iron,
gray hair; they were a very jolly crowd, and evi-
dently come to have a good time. Our idea was
that the old gentleman was entertaining the other
party, who were having a good deal of fun at his
expense, in more than the way of eating and
drinking, and drink they did. There were not
more than fifty guests in the house, and none of
them seemed to be permanently located, all tran-
sients. That night there was a jollification at
Monterey, which is about a mile or two farther on,
and the fireworks and the cannon kept up a
tremendous nolse all night.
	Early on the following morning we went down to
breakfast where we were seated at the same table
with the same people and had still another oppor-
tunity for observation. They have elegant silver
at the Del Monte, each piece marked Del
Monte which we did not quite understand, and
no one seemed able to explain. After breakfast
we went out upon the spacious and elegant grounds
which one cannot possibly describe to do them
justice, one must see for himself. It would be
easy to imagine ourselves, for the moment, in
fairy-land; on every side are the most beautiful
flowers, in blossom, in every variety of form, hue
and shades. Trees magnificent in height and
grandeur of appearance; walks and roadways
laid out artistically winding around, summer
houses, boat-houses, bath-houses and large
hostelry, all in the most perfect order, yet bewil-
dering to the newcomer. After wandering about
for a short time we arranged for a horse and
buggy to drive to Pacific Grove and along the
far-famed seventeen mile beach. Mrs. Whitney
being a good horsewomen, we decided it would
be better than hiring a carriage and driver, who
would, perhaps, tell us more than we wanted to
know, as some guides do, and we preferred our
own company.
	We drove out past the bathing resorts, and

[Column 3]

soon reached the old town of Monterey, a quaint
old place indeed it is, and well worth seeing.
Three miles further up hill all the way and in sight
of the glorious sea, we come to a delightful grove,
with some small and neat cottages and other large
and handsome residences. The town is laid off
in streets, though it appears the arrangement is
rather new. There is a church there, Catholic it
seemed, as the name was St. Joseph. The houses
are built clear down almost to the very shore of
the sea or bay, and those so near must have the
wierd music of the waves constantly. O it was a
grand and inspiring scene to view, even from the
distance, but when we alighted and walked away
to the point of a rocky cliff, the effect was beyond
expression; we were just meditating descending
upon a large flat rock that lay part way down the
steep ascent towards the sea in order to hear "the
music of the waves" more distinctly in the solemn
silence that surrounded us here, when a great
wave dashed fiercely over it as though it would
wash it from its very foundation, and so we aban-
doned the idea, as we did not wish to be swept out
into the great billowy tossing sea. We gazed and
thought, scarcely speaking to each other, until we
felt we must go on our way again. Resuming our
ride we drove up a long hill through what was
really more a wood than a grove, stopping once or
twice on our way to ask some questions about the
direction to take. In the woods we met a gentle-
man who seemed inclined to talk, and finally we
learned that he had visited Salt Lake and stopped
a few weeks during the past summer, at the
Spencer House. We drove on through miles of
woods where we could hear the roar of the ocean
surging and moaning, and the sighing of cypress
and pines, and we recalled all we had ever read
of the sea, but nothing we could remember seemed
to equal the reality; everything was quiet, no
carriages were near us, though we had seen one
or two on our way, and the absence of human life
made the effect of the sea and the forest more
impressive to one whose very soul was wrought to
an exultation of feeling by the solemnity and
grandeur of the hour amid such haunts of nature.
All that the poets had ever written, all the songs
that had ever been sung, sank into insignificance
for the time, and only one of the verses of the
"Apostrophe to the Ocean" seemed at all expres-
sive of the consciousness felt, which could find no
language.

	"There is a pleasure in the pathless woods,
		There is a rapture on the lonely shore,
	There is society where none intrudes,	
		By the lone sea, and music in its roar."

	At last after a lonely ride, but one full of the
most exquisite melody of feeling, we reached what
is known as "Cypress Point," a neck of land
reaching out into the open sea upon a high bank
that carriages may drive upon and turn, but we
walked, and gazed our fill, in part, for who could
tire of such wondrous and awful grandeur; here
we could hear the roaring of the sea lions in the
distance, on the rocks; we looked down where
the shore or bank curved hundreds of feet below;
a carriage full of guests from the hotel drew up
while we were there, but we knew they had no
feelings akin to ours, from their very manner;
they were off again in great haste, while we lin-
gered as long as we dared, to take in all that the
heart could contain, of the divine rhythm and
melody of the "murmuring sea." On our way
back to the Del Monte we drove past the Chinese
fishermen's huts, a very curious place, unlike any-
thing else we have seen here; there were quan-
titles of shells and curiosities for sale, little
Chinese girls soliciting us to buy, but as we did
not want to be overburdened with baggage, while
away from our lodgings, we did not invest in many,
though we afterwards wished we had as we had
no such opportunity again. After dinner at the
Del Monte, we asked to be shown through the


house, and the clerk sent a hall-boy to show us
the entire building. On the same floor with the
entrance hall on the south, leading along a wide
hall that opens to another entrance is the ladies'
billiard room (now being nicely frescoed) and the
ladies' parlor; the parlor is very elaborately fitted
up, and a bright wood fire showed off the mantel
and brass furnishings handsomely. On the oppo-
site side of the wide hall opening to a portico on the
south is the new annex, which contains suits of
rooms on the first floor and also on the second
and above single rooms in the third story, the house
itself is peculiar in its shape, and has more the
appearance of a large pavilion than a hotel. It is
said to accommodate about 750 or 800 guests. At
present there are very few in the building, and we
were told that on the previous Sunday there were
only five persons, that it was not the season yet,
but that the house would be filled before Christmas.
Everything inside was in good taste and in keeping
with the outward appearance as nearly as possible,
but we cannot help expressing more admiration
for the beauty of the grounds around the Del
Monte than for all the elegance, luxury, glitter and
display within. It must be a charming place to
resort to in summer time for restfulness, where in
a few moments walk from the hotel one may find
the cooling and grateful shade of those magnificent
trees.
	Early the following morning we were awakened
by the electric bell, and soon after we drove to the
station, only a few rods off, and with other travel-
ers awaited the coming of the train. It was
barely light, a solitary bird or two were flying on
the opposite side where the shrubbery was heavy
on a hillside, and the passengers walked impatiently
up and down the paths around, or sat on the
benches outside, as there was only a sort of min-
iature depot, just large enough for the clerks to
stand and attend to the necessary business.
	The ride was dull for the sun shone not. The
first station out was Castoroville, a little village;
where those around the depot seemed to have a
sort of Spanish look, only a few minutes waiting
and a few miles farther on, we reach Pajaso, then
we must change cars for Santa Cruz. In this
part of the country the people cultivate straw-
berries for the markets; we also saw miles, it
seemed to us, of rasberry bushes. The land is
worth from $500 to $600 an acre; the season for
these small fruits is nearly over, as the rainy sea-
son is daily expected to set in.
	Our next article will be the trip to Santa Cruz
and the big trees.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

VISIT TO EMERY STAKE.

	In company with Sister Jane S. Richards, we
made a visit to Emery Stake in October last from
this city to Price on the D. & R. G. train. We had
an interesting conversation on the way with the
Rev. Wm. Irvine and wife; the gentleman is a
celebrated divine, of New York City, and had been
west in the interest of the home mission work of
the Presbyterian Church. His wife was a very
refined and cultivated lady, who had seen much of
the world, and could converse intelligently of
foreign lands, works of art abroad, and natural 
scenery of those older countries, a woman one
would always recollect as having said something
worth remembering; she had called at the office of
the EXPONENT, when we talked for a couple of
hours, most of the time upon "Mormonism." She
had heard all the dreadful tales that are told con-
cerning our people, and had evidently come to Utah
filled with prejudice. I explained many principles,
and related experiences to illustrate the faith and
sincerity of the Mormon women, and especially
dwelt upon the freedom they enjoyed, and the
happiness that existed in families previous to the 
enforcement of the Edmund's law.
	The natural scenery through Castle Gate ab-

[Column 2]

sorbed our entire attention after reaching that
part of the journey; it was a time of the day that
hightened the beauty of the "everlasting hills,"
and the glory of the setting sun reflected upon
the peaks and craggs was something ever to be
remembered. One who has not seen the natural
scenery upon this wonderful road has missed an
entertainment interesting and effective. The men
who built this railroad deserve great credit for the
enterprise they have shown in doing such a won-
derful work, in the midst of a desert land sandy
and barren, and for the pleasure to the many
travelers in natural beauty and grandeur, they
deserve unbounded praise. It is too grand for
words, and there is no language adequate to its
expression.
	Arriving at Price, we went direct to the Bishop's
house, and failing to find any one at home, we in-
quired for the President of the Relief Society.
Sister Richards was much gratified to find in her
one of her old time Ogden acquaintances, and it
was quite opportune for we needed rest and
refreshment, and some one to conduct us further
upon our way. We were shown every attention
possible by Brother and Sister Cox and their
daughter Sarah; their hospitality can never be
forgotten. Several friends and neighbors came in
through the course of the evening, and the time
passed quickly and agreeably.
	The following morning we took leave of Sister
Cox, whose duties would not permit her to attend
the Sisters' Conference, and in company with
Brother Cox and daughter and Sister Pace, we
drove away towards Huntington, the next settle-
ment. The ride was a very tedious one, over
such dreadful roads, and a perfectly barren tract
of country. One traveling there would wonder
how the people subsisted, for there seemed little
or no vegetation. We reached Huntington about
noon. This is rather a more prosperous looking
place, but all was so quiet we soon saw there was
no conference being held there, as we had ex-
pected. However at the house of a friend we
were most warmly welcomed, and our team and
our party carefully cared for. We sent for the 
President of the Relief Society, whom we after-
wards learned was away from home, but we
succeeded in seeing one of her counselors. An
appointment was given out for a meeting in the
evening, at which time the meeting house was
well filled; there were many brethren as well as
sisters in the audience, and the larger number
were young men. We slept at the house of Sister
Sophia Pulsipher Burgess, and early in the morn-
ing pursued our way to Orangeville, where we
arrived in time for the Conference of the Primary
Association, the first one that had been held in
Emery Stake. Here we met with Sister Josie E.
Childs, First Counselor in the Relief Society of
Emery Stake, and with whom we felt somewhat
acquainted, having had some correspondence
heretofore. We were greatly disappointed to
learn that the Relief Society Conference was
already over; however, the Primary Conference
was a very good one, and we felt a good spirit
prevailing in the meeting. Miss Bessie Harvard
was nominated as Secretary of the Primary
Association of Emery Stake and sustained by
unanimous vote. We dined sumptuously at the
residence of Brother Reed, and started off directly
to attend the Conference of the Y. L. M. I. A. at
Castle Dale, drove straight to the meeting house,
which was crowded with people; many young men
were present, and two of the leading brethren
from Salt Lake City. The meeting was a very
good one, the brethren occupying part of the
time, and as soon as the Conference adjourned
we were again upon our way towards Huntington.
We lodged at the residence of Bishop Pulsipher,
whose wife is also counselor to the President in
the Stake organization of the Relief Society. She
was also an old-time friend of Sister Richards,
which made it pleasant for us both. The morning

[Column 3]

found us again on our way back to Price, over the
dreadful roads, but our great consolation was we
had such a careful charioteer. We arrived in 
Price in time to take dinner and keep our appoint-
ment made for a meeting there in the evening on
our return. Here as in Huntington and Castle
Dale there were a large proportion of young men
in the audience. The following morning we bade
our host and hostess, the Bishop and others good-
bye, and took the train for Salt Lake. Passing
through Castle Gate we had another opportunity
of admiring the magnificent grandeur of the rocky
cliffs, and contemplating again the wondrous works
of the Creator of the Universe. This was the
first visit either Sister Richards of the writer had
paid to Emery County, but it was a very pleasant
one; we were cordially welcomed everywhere,
and no pains spared to make our visit satisfactory
to all. The sisters so far removed from the centre
Stake of Zion feel that they need encouragement 
and instruction, and they really appreciate the
counsel and teaching of those who go as home
missionaries among them. Their labors there to
subdue the desert and make the waste places 
habitable, that the Saints may dwell therein, are
commendable indeed. The country looks barren,
unfruitful and forbidden, and only people of enter-
prise with undaunted courage, would ever think
they could endure the hardships incident to such
an undertaking. Success to their efforts in making
the desolate places desirable homes for the people


OFFICIAL ANNOUNCEMENT.

OF THE ORGANIZATION OF THE PRESIDENCY OF
THE RELIEF SOCIETY.

To Officers and Members of the various branches
	of Relief Society in the Church of Jesus Christ
	of Latter-day Saints.

	In the dispensation of the providence of God,
our honored and revered president, Eliza R.
Snow Smith, after a long life of remarkable activity
and usefulness, has been taken to another sphere.
She died in the Lord, (in the faith of the Gospel)
and her works follow her.
	Last April, Counselor Zina D. Young was
called and sustained by the general conference as
President of the Relief Society. Unavoidable
circumstances called her to Canada, which pre-
vented the completion of the organization until
Oct. 14th, when, with the approval of the presid-
ing council of the Church, Sister Jane S. Richards
was chosen first counselor, and Sister Bathsheba
W. Smith, second counselor.
	We join our sisters and co-laborers everywhere
in rendering thanks to Almighty God for the mani-
fold blessings that have attended Relief Society
labors, and we unitedly implore His continued
blessing and guidance.
	We have not called ourselves to positions of
trust and responsibility. But having been called
in the order of the Priesthood, we desire honor-
ably to fill our positions, and to this end we ask
the blessing, confidence and aid of the Apostle-
ship, Presidents of Stakes and Bishops, whom we
ever feel to sustain, and with whom we wish to har-
monize in our labors of love and blessing.
	With the co-operation of President Woodruff
and council we anticipate holding a general con-
ference, when we hope to meet representative
women from all the Stakes and settlements to re-
ceive instructions and discuss the best methods of
extending the benefits and blessings pertaining to
our special departments of labor.
	ZINA D. H. YOUNG, President.
	JANE S. RICHARDS, First Counselor.
	BATHSHEBA W. SMITH Second Counselor.
		SARAH M. KIMBALL, Secreatary.
			Salt Lake City, Nov. 13, 1888.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

INTERESTING JOURNEY.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I thought I would send you a synopsis of
our trip to conference, which was held at
Monticello, Utah, last month, as it might prove
interesting to some of your readers, who, like
myself, have been raised in the city, and accus-
tomed to going no further than the Tabernacle
to attend conference.
	As my husband could not very well leave
home, it was decided that I should go, and I
was particularly anxious to do so, for the
reason that my two brothers (one of whom
had been here two years, and the other ten
months), were going home to Salt Lake on a
visit, and I wanted to go as far as Monticello
with them, so arrangements were made for me
to go with a Bro. and Sister B.
	Now, although I was desirous of going, I
was on the point of giving up the idea several
times, for it seemed such an undertaking to
travel ninety miles by team, and I am afraid if
it had not been for the boys I should have
backed out at the "eleventh hour," but they
persisted in saying it would be such a good
chance to see the country, and the trip would
do me good; so, feeling very much like a
martyr, I said, "Yes, I will go," and the morn-
ing of the 22nd found me with valise and
lunch basket packed ready for the ordeal.
The weather was anything but inspiring, for it
had rained all night, and was still raining, and
the mud was ankle deep. Just about the time
Bro. B. and Co. should put in an appearance,
I hear my brother say, "Why, there are Bro.
B's horses!" and sure enough there they are;
they have strayed from home during the night,
and are about four miles from where they are
wanted. Just as my brother has started after
them to take them back, Bro. B's boy comes
along after them, and a pretty tramp he has
had through the mud.
	I take things quite coolly now, for I know
they will not be after me for some time to come,
so pick up the last Deseret News and scan its
pages o'er, to see how matters are going on at
home. While I sit reading, three wagons be-
longing to our company go by, and about
eleven o'clock my wagon comes along, so my
little girl and I say good-bye to "papa" and
"brother" and creep under the wagon cover
into the back end of the wagon, by Grandma
P. (another passenger), I feeling sure that by
night I shall be as "sick as a dog" with bilious
headache. We have not traveled more than a
mile before the clouds roll back and the sun
shines out beautifully, and continues to do so
the whole trip.
	Our first stop is made about 3 o'clock, at
Margon's saw mill; here we overtake the other
wagons. The symptoms of sick headache
have left me by this time, and I am hungry
enough to do justice to my dinner. After
dinner we all start out together. Our journey
lies through a pleasant strip of country, and
over a very good road. About sundown we
come to a Mr. Johnson's place, situated near
the Dolores River. This is the first house we
have seen since leaving Margon's; it is quite a
nice place, and is owned by a stock man.
About two miles further on we conclude to
camp for the night, and soon all hands are
busy, the men taking care of the horses, pull-
ing sagebrush and making fires, and the
women getting supper. I am a "green hand" at
cooking on a camp fire, so try to be useful by
taking care of Sister B's baby; feel more at
home in that line. As I sit there taking in the
scene, I am reminded very forcibly of that
long journey across the plains, when I was
but little older than my little daughter, and I
look at her and wonder if in twenty-five years
from now she will be able to remember this trip
as clearly as I do that.

[Column 2]

	While supper is getting ready I will tell you
who some of the members of our party are.
That pleasant looking man, holding the frying
pan over the fire, is our Bishop, and the one
who stands by his side, looking as though he
was absorbed in a "brown study," is his brother
William, one of the Stake Presidency; those
two women a few feet beyond, unpacking that
provision box, are their wives; a little farther
on in the circle sits a pale-faced, dark-eyed
woman, that is the President of the Relief
Society, and—well, supper is ready, and I
could not describe them all, for there are
twenty-six men, women and children, and a
happy little crowd we are as we sit around the
camp fire, cracking good-natured jokes at each
other's expense, relating scraps of personal ex-
perience, or discussing the principles of the
Gospel. About nine o'clock it is proposed
that we have prayers, so that those who wish
may retire. Peculiar feelings thrill through
my being as I kneel down in that lonely spot,
with the beautiful moonlight shining down up-
on us, while we offer up the gratitude of our
hearts to the Giver of every good and perfect
gift, for His loving watchcare that has been
over us during the day, and implore a continua-
tion of the same over our little band, and that
it may extend to the dear ones left at home,
and my heart is filled with thanksgiving for
the blessed privilege of being associated with
the people of God.
	The next morning we were up bright and
early, and are soon on our way again, and
travel fifteen miles before dinner. About four
o'clock in the afternoon we pass Alkali Springs,
and from the taste of the water I should say
they were rightly named. After leaving there
the road is rather rough and hilly, and in order
to make it lighter on the animals, we get out
and walk up the worst places. During the
afternoon we travel for miles through dry
timber, that has been killed by fires, and we
think what a prize it would be if only situated
near to some of our Utah towns. At seven
o'clock we arrive at Dove Creek. Here on a
little spot as green and level as a lawn, and
surrounded by hills, we camp. Some of us
not feeling very well to-night, probably the
effects of change of water, but it proves to be
nothing serious.
	Friday morning we are on the road again
at an early hour, and are not sorry that to-day
will bring us to our destination. About half-
past ten we cross the State line, and after an
absence of two years and a half, I once more
breathe the air of Utah. We are now near-
ing Piute Springs, and when almost there we
pass a grave, close by the roadside. Some one
says it is the grave of a man who was found
dead at one of the houses at the Springs, and
that sets one to wondering who he was, where
he came from, whether he has a mother or a
wife living, and if so whether they ever learned
what became of him. Some friendly hand
has covered the grave with flat stones, and
stood one at the head. Well, here we are at
the Springs; there are two or three log cabins
here, and I am surprised to see a woman and
child emerge from one of them, for I supposed
none but men lived in such a wild, out of the
way place. The water here is the best we
have had since leaving home. We fill up the
kegs and water the horses, for we will have to
make a dry camp at noon. About half-past
four p.m. we begin to strain our eyes to catch
a glimpse of Monticello, for we are almost
there, and pretty soon we can discern a build-
ing, which proves to be the meeting house, and
then four or five more log houses and two or
three tents come into sight, and these make up
the town, which is not more than six months
old. In that short time, the few people that
are there, besides building their houses, have
fenced a field of 380 acres, put in their crops,
and done considerable work on the water ditch.

[Column 3]

The town is very pleasantly situated, and in a
few years, if all is well, will be a fine place.
As we approach the houses the folks come out
to greet us, among the rest Grandma P's
daughter, a former resident of Mancos, who
has been here about a month; she is very much
pleased to see us all. Our team and the
Bishop's drive down to her place. After clean-
ing ourselves up and eating supper, we attend
choir practice, which is held at one of the
neighbors'.
	The next day conference commences; it is
held in the new meeting house, which  is not
yet completed, for there is no floor, and the
seats are only temporary; but the Spirit of the
Lord is there, and we have an enjoyable time.
In the evening a number of us are invited to
Bro. Walton's to supper. After supper others
of the visitors drop in, and we spend a very
pleasant evening in listening to songs, recita-
tions, etc. During the evening two young 
ladies sing, "Must I leave the old home,
mother?" which touches a tender spot in my
heart, and I steal out in the moonlight to in-
dulge in thoughts of home and mother, and
the dear ones who dwell in the "City of the
Saints."
	Sunday there are three meetings, as the
Y. M. M. I. A. hold a meeting in the evening.
	Monday the Relief Society meets at half-
past nine a.m., the Y. L. M. I. A. at half-past
twelve, and P. A. at three o'clock, and thus
ends our conference. The young folks think
they must have a dance in the evening to
finish up with, so a floor is laid down in one of
the unfinished houses, and their desire is
granted. The most of the older ones are glad
to go to bed and get rested, ready for an early
start home on the morrow.
	Tuesday morning all are on the move at an
early hour, and soon after breakfast we bid
good-bye to all and start for home.
	Our journey thither need not be described,
as it was similar to the one going out; suffice it
to say, we reached home in safety, well satisfied
with our trip.
		L. M. W.
	Mancos, Col., September 28, 1888.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A., & P. A. REPORTS.

	(Minutes of the Relief Society conference of
Sanpete Stake, held at Ft. Green, Sept. 14,
1888. Prest. M. A. Hyde presiding.)
	Singing, prayer, singing. M. A. Hyde
spoke. Felt thankful for the opportunity of
again beholding the faces of her sisters in con-
ference assembled.
	"The last time we met here we had with us
our Prest. Sister Eliza, but since, she has been
called to labor in a higher sphere, and others
have been chosen to fill her place. Much de-
pends upon the spirit of the congregation what
kind of meetings we have. God is always
willing and ready to bless His daughters as
well as His sons if they will but seek Him
earnestly and prayerfully, and they will re-
ceive blessings far beyond their anticipations."
	Statistical and Financial reports read. Ver-
bal reports were given from Prests. and repre-
tentatives of Ft. Green, Mayfield, Mt. Pleasant,
Spring City, Ephraim and Manti; showing that
the sisters were always willing, ready and on
hand to do whatever was required of them in
providing for the sick, emigrating the poor,
storing wheat, raising silk etc. etc.,
	(Sister Precinda L. Kimball was next to ad-
dress the conference.) Was very thankful to
be with us it being her first visit to Sanpete.
Had been with the Saints in every move; been
through every trial and hardship that they
had passed through, but had never felt to mur-
mur or complain. (In times of scarcity and
famine she had prayed to God to take away
her appetite so she could give to those who suf-


[Column 1]

fered.) Wondered if it was a judgement again
coming on us as the crops had not yielded in
full; "we should live very near unto God, be
humble and prayerful every day of our lives,
that this judgement might pass us by.")
	Spoke of the great blessing the Relief So-
cieties were to the Priesthood. Was very much
pleased to see the plainness here among the
people; hoped they would continue so. Ad-
vised parents to make their homes pleasant
and attractive and keep their children home at
night as they knew not the wickedness and sin
that is going on in our midst. Hoped the
young girls would be modest and virtuous in
their dress, conversation, habits and associates.
Urged upon the sisters the necessity of being
washed and annointed preparatory to their con-
finement as it is a great blessing to both mother
and child.
	Spoke of the principal of "Celestial Marri-
age," what a blessing it was for men to have
more wives especially if they were like Sister
Hyde and Vilate Kimball who had been so
kind and generous to their husbands children
and family. Hoped we would be kind to the
poor and the aged as it was a dreadful thing
to be poor and old. It is they who need our
aid and sympathy and not the rich. Prayed
God to bless the sisters of Sanpete with His
choicest blessings, and all who labor for the
building up of His work.
	Sister M. W. Snow Spoke: Was highly
pleased with the instructions we had received
this afternoon; hoped we would carry them
out. Knew that the spirit of the Lord had
been with the sisters during conference. Al-
ways enjoyed meeting with the sisters of this
Stake; loved all who loved the Lord; While
sitting and listening she had thought of the
goodness of God in making the desert blossom
as the rose. How necessary it was for Mothers
to set good examples before their children; if
that should they err they cannot say "mother
did that." How essential it is for
them to set good examples that are worthy
of imitation. Spoke in relation to the Manti
Temple and how the Spirit had been working;
what a great work had been going on for the
dead. Spoke of the sisters being baptised for
their health; if they would go in faith what a
blessing it would be to them. Knew that
every principal we had been taught was from
God, even the principal of "Celestial Marriage;"
we should never allow ourselves to speak lightly
of it. Prayed God to bless, strengthen and
help us all to do right.
	(Prest. M. A. Hyde had been greatly in-
terested in the remarks, and also the reports.
Thought the sisters deserved great credit for
their industry and perseverence.
	What beautiful times we are living in for
a faithful Latter-day Saint. Spoke of the
good times they used to have in early days,
exercising the gifts, prophesying, comforting the
sick etc., closed by speaking in "tongues."
Sister Kimball giving the interpretation.)
	Closing remarks were made by Prest.
Canute Petersen. Related some of the ex-
perience he had had in his early days; of the
goodness of God to him, and the gifts and
blessings he had enjoyed. Exhorted the sisters
to continue in their good work, and be help-
meets to their husbands instead of help-eats.
To do all the good they could in helping to
carry on the glorious work.
	A letter was read from the Prest. of the
Silk Association by Coun. S. Petersen. Sing-
ing, "Oh My Father thou that dwellest," etc.,
Benediction. Conference adjourned to meet
at Spring City Dec. 15, 1888, at 10 a. m.,
	The sisters have on hand in cash: $849.13;
in Property, $1,066.89; in Real Estate, $8,786.
95; in Wheat, 8,147 bushels 47 pounds; Mul-
berry trees 572.
		MARY A. HYDE WHITE, Sec.

[Column 2]

ONEIDA STAKE.

	The Relief Society of tho Oneida Stake
held their annual conference at Franklin, Sept.
9, 1888. Prest. Elizabeth Fox presiding.
After the opening exercises Sisters Mary Hawks
and Mary J. Hendricks were set apart as
counselors to Prest. Fox.
	The Presidents of the different wards gave
in their verbal reports which were very favor-
able. 
	Coun. M. Hawks said: "we should not be
ashamed to bear our testimony. We are a
blessed people, we should attend our meetings
and learn useful things."
	Coun. M. J. Hendricks: Her motto was to
be on hand at all times. Felt honored to
have been in "plural marriage," to bring up
sons and daughters in the same. Related her
daughters dream. Bore a faithful testimony.
	Coun. M. F. Cowley felt pleased to address
the sisters; spoke encouragingly to mothers to
teach them everything timely and good.
Dwelt at some length on "charity." Those
who stand at the head of families should be
very careful in all their actions.
	Sunday, 2 p. m., Singing. Prayer by W.
L. Webster. Singing. Sacrament was then
administered; minutes of previous conference
read and approved.
	Sister Richards felt to exhort us to lay
aside all pride, "and train the minds of our
children; not spend so much time in adorning
their body, but adorn their minds with truth
and virtue and they will bless you in your old
age; cherish charity, and learn forgiveness to
all men and the lord will forgive whom he
will. It is the duty of the Relief Society to
administer to the needs of the poor. We
have been instructed to lay up grain; we shall
he called upon to feed many people from all
nations. Do we keep all the commandments
given us ? I think not; or we would not be as
we are to-day. But the time will come when
Zion will arise and shine; put away every-
thing that is evil and the Lord will bless us.
	Sister Clark said: "what is a mother in
Israel ? It is to teach their children by pre-
cept and example. We must bring ourselves
in subjection to the laws of God. If the older
classes will serve the Lord we will soon lead
the young into the path of duty." Spoke
with power of the great blessings she had re-
ceived and wished to encourage the sisters unto
faithfulness.
	Bishop L. L. Hatch made a few remarks,
praying that we might be able to put into
practice what we had heard to-day.
	Prest. Elizabeth Fox said: "we have had
an enjoyable time; our societies are a blessing
to the poor. Do not be slothful in doing
good." Desired the sisters to be dilligent in
attending to the duties that devolve upon them.
	Singing,  Benediction by S. R. Parkinson.
		ANNIE HATCH Sec.

TRIP AROUND ONEIDA STAKE.

DEAR EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I wish to give you a short sketch of our trip
around the Oneida Stake of Zion. On the 12th
of October myself and Sister Mary Hawkes,
counselors, started from Franklin by team to
go to Mink Creek to hold meeting with the
Relief Society at 3 p. m., and of course the
brethren were not excluded. It being twenty
miles from Franklin, and that considerable of
the distance rising higher and higher, till we
appear to be right on the mountains. We think
none but the toiling, industrious Mormons
would make farms and homes here. But here
we are on time, with sharpened appetites to do
justice to lunch provided by Sister Rosenbaum,
and then to meeting, where we are pleased to
find a good turnout of the sisters, and also the
bishop and others of the leading brethren.

[Column 3]

Suffice to say we had a splendid meeting, the
Spirit of the Lord being with both speakers
and hearers. After meeting we go with the
President of the Relief Society, and other
sisters whom she invited to her home. We have
a good sociable time besides partaking of the
hospitality of our hostess. We stayed all nigh
here.
	13th.—We go over the divide into Gentile
Valley. When we finally reach the top
of those hills, the views we have of Bear
River are Grand in the extreme. I think every
soul who beholds them cannot but acknowledge
the handiwork of an Allwise Creator. Now
we go down into the valley, and arrive in time
to hold meeting with the sisters in Mound
Valley Ward, eat dinner with the President of
the Relief Society, after which we travel on to
Mormon Ward and put up with our former
co-laborer, Sister Ann Hale, in this stake. We
received a kind welcome, and put up for the
night.
	14th.—This being the Sabbath day, we at-
tended school this morning. The Superin-
tendent is Brother Sol Hale, Jun. We were
much pleased with the exercises and the good
order of the bright, intelligent looking children.
In a little while after school the meeting was
held owing to the people being so scat-
tered. After the opening of the meeting and
sacrament had been administered, the bishop
gave us the opportunity of occupying the time
we wished, in speaking to the sisters. There
needed a re-organization of the Relief Society,
the former president, S. Richards, having
removed. The organization was effected with
Sister Julia Pond President, Jane Bolwinkle
and Agnes Harris Counselors. We had a good
visit the day out with our friend, Sister Hale,
and stayed the night here.
	15th.—Our teamster says, all aboard for
Oxford, so, bidding our friends a hearty good-
bye and thanks for kindnesses, we take our
departure from this pretty little valley. We
arrive at Oxford in plenty of time for our
meeting at 3 o'clock p.m. Here we put up at
M. J. Hendricks, our second counselor, she
having been put in place of Sister Hale, who
was honorably released, owing to her having
other local duties to attend to. We had a good
meeting here with the sisters of the Relief
Society. We also had a few good remarks
from Bishop Lewis and Patriarch Milo Andrus.
We stay here all night.
	16th.—Sister Hendricks now accompanies us
to Marsh Valley. We hold meeting at 2 p. m.
at Woodland, and at 6:30 in the evening at
Garden Creek. Stay here all night.
	17th.—Hold meeting at Nine Mile at 11 a.
m., after which we return to Oxford, having
traveled about sixty-five miles since we left here.
	18th.—This morning we leave Oxford to go
to Clifton, and I must say the mountain scenery
on our right is beautiful indeed; the rich
autumn tints of the foliage have to be seen to be
appreciated The dwelling houses on this bench
have the grand old mountains for a back-ground
and quite a long stretch of meadow-land in
front, which makes it a lovely situation for
homes. We hold meeting here at Clifton at
10:30 a. m., after which our friends kindly
provide us with refreshments. We afterwards
continue our journey on to Weston, where we
are to hold meeting at 4 p. m. We arrive in
time, and are pleased to find a goodly number
of the sisters gathered, and also Bishop Clark
and other brethren. We spend the night at
Sister Clark's, President of the Relief Society,
where we are entertained in the evening with
a nice selection of music on the organ by their
daughter, Miss Clark.
	19th.—We leave here this morning for
Preston, our meeting to be held at 11 o'clock
a. m. There was also a good attendance of the
sisters here, and Bishop W. C. Parkinson, who
gave us good instructions during our meeting.


Afterwards we were invited to spend a few
hours with our genial friend, Mrs. Nellie
Parkinson, with a few other sisters. It was not
long before dinner was announced, when we all
sat down to a well spread table. Traveling in 
these mountains as a general thing makes
people enjoy their food; it was so with us in this
case. Now we bid our kind friends good-bye,
and this being our last place to visit on this
tour, myself and Sister Hawkes return to our
homes in Franklin, Sister Hendricks having
left us before, and we feel very grateful to our
heavenly Father that he has assisted us in our
weakness by His good Spirit to perform our
duty in trying to encourage our sisters to live
up. to the great privileges they can enjoy in
their Relief Societies. We have traveled about
one hundred and seventy miles by team, and
held ten meetings. The sisters treat us kindly 
in every place. May the Lord bless them in
their responsible duties is the desire of their
sister,		ELIZABETH FOX.
	Franklin, Idaho, Nov. 8, 1888.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Queen Christine of Spain, is said to be one of
the finest swimmers in the world. She recently
swam across the Bay of St. Sebastien, followed
for security by a boat. The traject took three-
quarters of an hour. Four ladies tried to
swim along with the Queen, but gave up after
a quarter of an hour.
	According to the returns received from the
Department of Agriculture over two hundred
Mormons have emigrated from Utah to the
Canadian Northwest during the past season.
The settlements already established south of
the Canadian Pacific are thriving.
	East Des Moines has a school named in
honor of Louisa Alcott. On the ninth of
October, by a happy thought of Mrs. Maria
Orwig, this school was presented with a beauti-
ful life-size portrait of Miss Alcott's mother.
Mrs. Pratt, the "Meg" in "Little Women," and
Mrs. Adams, of Dubuque, Mrs. Orwig and Mr.
Ives, the artist, combined to secure the picture.
The presentation day was a gala day for the
school children. They knew about Louisa
Alcott and loved her as all school children do.
But they did not know about her wise and
lovely mother. They were told how noble and
courageous she was in the midst of poverty
and great trials. The heart of every child
went out with warm love to Mrs. Alcott, and
six hundred little voices sang for very gladness
at this first recognition of good mothers, who
are to be remembered hereafter as example and
inspiration, just as good fathers and good men
have always been.


HOUSEHOLD RECIPES.

	The following recipes we can highly recommend as we
have tried them:
	Mince Meat.—Five pounds lean fresh beef chopped raw,
two pounds beef suet chopped fine and cleared from strings,
seven pounds of apples chopped fine, five pounds raisins
seeded and chopped, five pounds currants washed and
cleaned, one pound of citron cut up fine, five tablespoonsful
powdered cinnamon, three tablespoonsful powdered mace,
two tablespoonsful powdered cloves, two tablespoonsful
powdered alspice, two tablespoonsful salt, two nutmegs
five pounds brown sugar, one pint best brandy and enough
fresh cider to render nice and juicy. After mixing alto-
gether boil ten or fifteen minutes.
	Cream Cake.—Cream, one quart milk, three eggs, one
cup sugar, three tablespoons flour, one teaspoon butter,
flavor with vanilla; cook well.
	Cake.—Six eggs, two cups sugar, seven tablespoons cold
water, three cups flour, four teaspoons baking powder.
Bake the paste in four pie tins; when done cut each open
and insert the cream.		E. W.


IN MEMORIAM.

	Died, at Payson, after an illness of a few weeks, Sept.
26, 1888. Magdelena Baer Sabin, beloved wife of the
late David Sabin, and a faithful member of the Payson
Ward Relief Society.
	Deceased was born May 9, 1822, in Switzerland. She
was the mother of twelve children, of whom one son and
three daughters are now located in Zion. She was bap-
tized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
in the year 1843, emigrated in 1877. She lived true to
the covenants she had made, and her greatest desire was
that all her children would embrace the Gospel. She did
all she could according to her power and ability to help
the work along, in which she was engaged, and died in
hopes of a glorious resurrection. We feel to  offer to
her memory the following

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Whereas, in the providence of our Heavenly Father He
has seen fit to take from our society our sister; Magdalena
Baer Sabin, and,
	Whereas, our departed friend and sister was worthy of
our warmest affection, we feel that some proper recogni-
tion of her goodness and virtue be had among us, there-
fore, be it
	Resolved, that we the members of the Relief Society of
the Payson Ward, deeply mourn the loss of our sister and
hold her name in affectionate remembrance.
	Resolved, that we extend our sympathy to her family;
and that we try to live that we may be prepared to meet
her when we have finished our work here below.
	Resolved, that these resolutions be spread on our re-
cords, and that a copy be presented to her family, and
also a copy be sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		ANN PICKERING,
		ANN NEBEKER,
		ARTEMISIA WHITE,
		ELIZABETH SCHREAM,
			Committee.


OBITUARIES.

[For the EXPONENT.]
	Died, at Oceanville Long Island, N. Y., Nov. 6, '88,
of typhoid fever, Mary Eliza, wife of Wm. R. Sopher
and daughter of Richard and the late Amy Bower, born
June 15, 1834. Was baptized into the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, by her father, in 1861; and
always remained faithful to her belief.

	To the memory of Barbara Morgan Maughan beloved
wife of W. H. Maughan. She departed this life Sept. '19,
1888, aged 53 years 8 months and 27 days; she leaves a
husband and family to mourn her loss. Her mortal re-
mains were followed to the meeting house by her family,
and the officers of the Ward Relief Society, where
Prest. Pitkin, Bishop Hughes and Bishop Molen spoke in
praise and eulogy of the pure life and many virtues of our
beloved friend.
	She was Counselor to the President of the Relief Society
in this Ward, being released on account of failing health,
with a benediction and a blessing from the sisters, as her
counsels were always gentle and loving. She was one of
the pure in heart, and died as she had lived, beloved and
esteemed by all who knew her, in full faith of a glorious
resurrection and reunion in the life to come.

	"Friend after friend departs,
		Who has not lost a friend !
	There is no union here of hearts,
		That find not here an end.
	She is not dead whose noble mind
		Lifts thine on high—
	To live in hearts we leave behind,
		Is not to die."

			MRS. JANE LEATHAM.
Wellsville, Oct. 30, 1888.

	Died, at Payson, Sept. 16, 1888, Anna, the beloved
wife of Henry Scharrer. Born Dec. 21st 1817. Heard,
and embraced the Gospel in the fall of 1857, being the
only one of a large family embracing it; emigrated with
her husband and two children to Utah in the year 1860,
In answer to a call, went with her husband and family to


assist in opening up the Mission in Southern Utah,
Passed through many trials and afflictions, and also much
suffering iu her last sickness, caused by liver complaint and
old age.
	She was the mother of three children two of whom are
living, and grand-mother to eighteen. She was very
modest and unassuming in manner, patient and uncom-
plaining, and resigned in trouble.
	Died in full faith of the Gospel and in the hope of a
glorious resurrection.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Adopted by the sisters of the 4th District Relief Society
of the Payson Ward. To the memory of our esteemed
sister Anna Scharren:
	Whereas, it has pleased God in his infinite wisdom, to
take from our midst, by the hand of Death, our worthy
and beloved sister, and,
	Whereas, we, her fellow-laborers in the Relief Society
feel that we have lost a friend and sister; be it therefore.
	Resolved, that we tender our love and esteem and heart-
felt sympathy to Bro. Henry Scharrer and family, and
condole with them in their bereavment while we submit to
the will of an alwise God who doethall things well.
	Resolved, that we spread these resolutions on the So-
ciety record; and present a copy to the family, and also to
the Woman's Exponent for publication.

	She has filled herearthly mission
		And is wanted up above;
	To continue in good labors
		Where all is peace and love.

	Sleep! Oh sleep dear Sister.
		Till Gabriel's trump shall sound.
	You'll awaken from your slumber
		To receive a righteous crown.

			HELEN HUISH,
			ANNIE TAYLOR,
			AMY HANCOCK,
				Committee.


R.K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions 
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS,  GLOVES,  PARASOLS,
RIBBONS,  COLLARS,  TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118, East Temple Street

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES. BOX 306. SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
