
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
Vol. 17.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 1, 1888.			No. 1.


I WILL ANSWER FOR MY PEOPLE.
"I will answer for my people" was the virgin monarch's
	boast,
When flatterers bade her guard her life amid her armed.
	host.
"My throne is based on England's love, or her crown
	would worthless be;
And my sceptre well might tremble were its guardian—
	Tyrrany."
'Twas well, heroic maiden, that eagle glance of yore,
And well the grovelling sycophant might quail such tones
	before;
Yet I have heard a loftier tone, a nobler glance I've seen,
Than e'er decked earthborn majesty, or graced a courtly
	scene.

"I will answer for the people in danger's darkest hour,
I will answer for the people against each hostile power;
I will answer for the people, for their every care is mine,
And I ask no odds of mortal foe, my mission is divine."

Such were the sounds that thrilled around when Zion's
	Prophet rose,
Knowing the hearts that trusted him would bleed for his
	repose;
And prouder, loftier, was his mien, aye, more than kingly,
	when
From all that vast assembly came as from one soul—Amen.

Aye, answer for thy people, thou, their lion heart of truth,
Answer again, again, again from hoary age to youth,
We will not own another chief, nor brook another’s sway
Until His voice shall will it so, whose word all Saints obey

		We do not call thee Chieftain,
			We do not name thee King,
		We wreathe no brilliants, for thy brow,
			No ermine round thee fling,
		And thou art crowned, but with the light
			That gilds the throne above;
		Thy lofty spirit's wealth of power,
			Thy people's clinging love.
	
		We do not call thee Chieftain,
			Thy cheek would flush to hear
		Earth's titles woven with thy name,
			And whispered in thine ear,
		As well presume to gild the sun.
			Or paint earth's brightest flowers;
		We only call thee Brigham Young,
			We only call thee ours.

		We do not call thee Chieftain
			Let golden crowns be wrought
		For brows unhallowed by the touch
			Of soul ennobling thought,
		But thou—the purest, holiest prayer
			To listening angels flung,
		Is whispered when thy people breathe
			The name of Brigham Young.
						SARAH E. CARMICHAEL.
Bowery, August 8, 1857.


[Column 1]
[For the EXPONENT.]
		THE WOMEN OF UTAH.
				PART I.
	At the recent Woman’s Jubilee, held in
Washington, lengthy, complete and interesting
papers relating to women in almost every
sphere and walk in life were read. A perusal
of these papers naturally forces one to consider
the relative advancement of women in a single
community; and we doubt if any one com-
munity can excel Utah in this respect. In
comparing woman’s work in Utah, with
woman’s work in other lands, it is only just to
first of all mention the Relief Society, as the

[Column 2]
greater degree of woman’s progress in this
Territory is due to this organization, yet we do
not forget there are other societies of women
here, and take great pleasure in presenting to
our readers a brief report of their aims and
works.
	It is now forty years since the first
convention of women was held at Seneca
Falls, N. Y., and the first organization of
Mormon women has a much earlier date,
but it is not our intention to dwell on
this organization, for it is already fa-
miliar with the readers of the  Exponent,
scarcely a number appearing which does not
contain reports from these societies—their
organizations and reunions—for wherever a
sufficient number of Saints are, there one is
sure to find a Relief Society helping to build
up and strengthen the community.
	The first subject discussed at the Washington
Convention was philanthropies, the one great
and almost inexhaustible subject for the women
of Utah, for as philanthropists are they best
known. It is better, however, to arrange our
topics as they grew, and therefore first consider
the subjects discussed by Anna M. Worden
and Esther L. Warner.
 
WOMEN IN THE GRANGE AND WOMEN AS 
				FARMERS.
	As all the world knows, Utah was once a
vast desert, and the first thing for the pioneers
to do was to build homes and cultivate the
earth, that the necessaries of life might be
provided; in those days, with no railroads, no
roads of any kind, save the one trail marked
by their own tired oxen and worn out wagons,
it was impossible to obtain supplies from any
source than the earth, where their homes were
chosen.  So, all the settlers became farmers,
and as new comers were yearly arriving, and
the farms in Salt Lake valley grew, families
spread out in other directions and began sub-
duing the soil in other valleys, toiling unceas-
ingly, until now nearly the whole Territory is
covered with farms and homesteads. We have
all from earliest infancy heard of the Pilgrim
Fathers, and after considerable time and reason-
ing the world acknowledges that we also had
Pilgrim mothers. It is a well known fact
whenever there is work to do the women—
wives and mothers—stand by and aid the men
—husbands and fathers. It is perfectly
right that they should, and we always find they
are pretty welcome, too. No one doubts that
the Pilgrim mothers helped with the clearing,
the planting, the tending, though their names
have not been handed down the ages as the
first great settlers of the old bay state. It
used to be enough to mention the men, but
sometimes the father and husband dies, and the
woman has her own home to make, and the
day is fast approaching when woman's name
will also be hurled down the ages, and her
praises sung in different climes. Here, in this
far off west, we claim Pioneer Fathers and
Pioneer mothers, too, who might have had for
their motto the beautiful words which the
Rev. Annie H. Shaw addressed to the young
women in her Sunday sermon— "If you have a
bit of Truth, hold fast to that which God has
given you; let no power, no injustice, no ob-
stacle, no scorn, no opposition, let nothing ex-
tinguish this flame.”  Against all opposition,
all persecution, all persuasion, these mothers
held fast to the "bit of Truth” that God had
given them; with their husbands and fathers

[Column 3]
they braved the perils and trials of the great
desert journey, and in these valleys have toiled
hard and long, building homes and cultivating
the earth, and now when the valleys are
blossoming and verdant, and these brave,
white-haired women can walk in their own
gardens, gathering fruit and flowers, each one
truly feels that she has been given the fruit of
her hands, and her own works praise her in
the gates. Owing to the Relief Society, there
is no particular need in Utah of a Grange
Association, as this Society alleviates the
monotony and humdrum of farm life, and
affords those advantages to women in Utah
that the Grange does in other places. Our
women are alive to the necessity of caring for
the grain, and have a separate organization for
that purpose; they at present are the owners
of many well stored granaries. 
		WOMEN IN EDUCATION.
Among the first company, the pioneers, were
only three women—Clara Decker Young,
Ellen Sanders Kimball and Harriet P. Wheeler
Young—whose names should ever be remem-
bered and claim a glorious place in every page
relating to the early history of Utah. There
were no children; but the September following
five hundred families arrived. In the south 
western division of Salt Lake City remains
now a single ten acre square, without building
or improvement of any kind save a garden and
the gardener’s lodge; this square is familiarly,
known as “The Old Fort;” here were the first
homes, rude log walls surrounding the entire
square, secure and plain, the doors and win-
dows facing an inner courtyard, the outer walls
without opening or ornament of any sort, in
this way protecting the dwellers from wolves
and other wild things with which the country
then abounded. Simultaneously with the
constructing of homes, the subduing of lands,
began educational work in Utah; it was like
all things else a difficult and rather unpleasant
undertaking, as there were so few conveniences;
but it became the task of a noble and bright
young woman—Mary Jane Dilworth, afterward
wife of Bishop F. A. Hammond—to collect in
her brother-in-law’s tent, even before the houses
were built, and instruct the children who were
playing away the sunny hours in the court-
yard of The Old Fort. This was the first
school in Utah, and the first school teacher
was a woman. This same Mrs. Hammond,
nee Miss Dilworth, in 1849 accompanied her
husband to the Sandwich Islands, and there
gathered around her the native children, teach-
ing the first English school in Laie. Return-
ing again to Utah, she became a pioneer in
settling other parts of the Territory, and
opened in three different places the first school.
Her Sister, Mrs. Rebecca Riter, in speaking of
her work, very touchingly says, “She was in-
deed a pioneer in all her movements after ally-
ing herself with the Church, in teaching, in
helping to settle new countries, in the mission-
ary field, in philanthropy, and even in her
burial, being the first person laid away in the
new graveyard at Huntsville.”
	As other companies of children arrived in
the valleys and the people spread out in other
directions, other schools were started, and the
demand for teachers became greater. Mrs.
Emmeline B. Wells, our editor, pleasingly tells
of a little school of 65 kept by herself in
1851-2 in a log building in the upper part of
the city; how without desks, charts, black


[Column 1]
boards, or scarcely two books of the same kind,
she toiled as an instructress. The task was
not so easy then as now, when we have all the
modern appliances for school rooms, and large,
comfortable, airy buildings. The remunera-
tion was likewise trying, one bringing a piece
of salt pork, another a bucket of flour, a third
perhaps a skein of yarn, to repay the ever toil-
some task of school teaching; the work was
unceasing; the day spent in the school room
and the night in planning and working for the
morrow, whole nights being spent in cutting
fancy paper patterns and writing thereon verses
of her own composition, in blue ink, and
working on bits of card-board, mottoes in vari-
ous colored silks for rewards, to urge the
children to diligence and good behavior. This
is but a sample of the work school teachers
had in those days; it is amusing now, but was
trying then. Since the first winter, when Miss
Dilworth opened the little school in the Old
Fort, there has ever been a school, and a woman
teacher in Utah. Here, as throughout the
west, co-education has always existed. The
University and all the schools, district and
Church, barring, of course, the Catholic, ad-
mitting to all departments women as well as
men, and as educators, women have almost the
same advantages as men. The Territorial
University has but once in its long history
boasted a woman teacher, notwithstanding the
graduates from the normal department average
very nearly equal, there being from the years
1876 to 1888, eighty-five female and one hun-
dred and twenty-eight male graduates, certain-
ly a fair showing in an institution controlled
throughout by men. Then, as in all other
things, the wages are less (women, you know,
don’t require as much as men), if they do men
don’t think so, and we have not yet any women
trustees. The average salary per month for
teachers the past year was, males, $46-85
and females, $26-70. The total num-
ber of schools in the Territory, primary,
intermediate and mixed, was 467; the number
of teachers, 561, with 60 assistants; out of this
number 258 were women teachers, and 48 as-
sistant women teachers, giving the men the
small majority of nine.
Women have certainly done a great deal in
advancing education in Utah; to the Misses
Cook, Mary and Ida, is due the grading of
schools; this would doubtless have been done
had they not come, but not so early. When
they opened in the Social Hall of Salt Lake
City a common school, they found a sad mix-
ture of books among their pupils, some far ad-
vanced in one study and far behind in others,
no order, no uniformity, no regular books, and
they had quite a struggle to grade their school
properly, the pupils rebelling against such an
unheard of system. I remember very well how
I cried when Miss Cook placed me way down
in the second reader, for I was one of the very
best readers in school, read so well that my
previous teacher had allowed me to skip the
third reader altogether, and I read now in the
National Fifth. This was my argument, and
I ventured to prove it by reading something
very hard for her benefit, and as for geography,
why I was always head, but, alas! for arithme-
tic, that was the point on which we were to be
graded, and, well, compound numbers was my
highest limit, and Miss Cook thought “it
wouldn’t hurt me to begin at the beginning.”
Tears and arguments were alike unavailing;
the school had to be graded, and our knowledge
of arithmetic told where we ought to be. How
we “hated” it then, but as the school assumed
that order and uniformity obtainable only in a
well graded system, even, the pupils began to
admire it and work more diligently in all
studies, not slighting one for another more
pleasant and easy. Miss Cook’s school became 
an example, and the Territorial Superintend-
ent, then Robert L. Campbell, began grading 

[Column 2]
the district schools, frequently calling on Miss
Cook for advice and assistance. There were a 
few, some eighteen or twenty, as fine teachers 
as Utah can boast trained under Miss Mary 
Cook. Miss Ida's work, after leaving the 
University, where she was one year principal,
has been mostly confined to Cache Valley.
She held for some years the position of principal 
of the Brigham Young College, the largest 
school in northern Utah, and was elected to 
the office of school superintendent for Cache 
County, but owing to existing laws against 
women holding office was not allowed to act; 
the word male in the organic act prohibiting 
women as teachers from occupying positions of
emolument and trust. Where women have 
the greatest success is among the children, 
and there they should claim the entire con-
trol. 
The Kindergarten has been very gladly re-
ceived wherever it has been started, but it has 
not yet extended far in the Territory. If 
more of the young women teachers would 
spend some time in learning the method and 
introduce it in their schools they would not 
only afford themselves much pleasure, the 
little ones much happiness, but would gladden 
the hearts of the mothers as well. Some of 
the different church schools have a Kinder-
garten department, and Miss Dickey,  of the
Presbyterian school, herself a student of 
Baroness Maronholtz Beulow, the friend and 
pupil of Froebel, has trained some few teachers, 
who now keep most successful and interesting 
Kindergartens in different parts of the city. 
Such a delightful and pleasing thing ought to 
grow most rapidly in a community which
boasts so many beautiful and bright children.
We have, it is true, the Primary Association 
for the children, which in the prettiest possible 
way instils into the little hearts bright truths,
instructs the little hands to do nice work, and 
fills the little souls with happy thoughts; busy
little working bees, indeed, are the children of 
the Primary; but these Associations are held
but once a week, and the remainder of the 
time the little ones are not very much em-
ployed, unless, indeed, they are old enough for 
the district schools. If to each district school 
a Kindergarten might be attached, it would 
certainly be a great benefit to the community.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
			PRAISE.

	"If you've dear, sweet thoughts about me,
		Why not whisper them to me?
	Don't you know 'twould make me happy,
		And as glad as glad can be?
 
     These sweet, simple lines have lived in 
memory in contrast with the old adage that,
"Praise to the face is a shame and disgrace,"
ever since my youth.  The latter was handed
down to my grandmother through a long line
of her ancestors, who regarded it of almost
equal importance with one of the ten com-
mandments, but my grandma took one step in
advance, and her ideas became somewhat
modified, and many a word of approbation I
received when my work was well done, which
wonderfully increased my desire to please her.
     In by-gone days, I think praise and flattery
were considered synonymous terms, and one
was as carefully guarded against as the other.
We may err in judgment and differ in taste re-
garding a friend's good qualities, attainments,
beauty, etc., but we should not be deemed
guilty of flattery, because our honest opinions 
do not agree with those of others.  We are all
delightfully human, battling continually with
the sins that do so easily beset us, but within
every soul is a spark of Divinity, which, if not
suppressed with false teachings, and continues,
will naturally prompt us to praise whatever
gives us pleasure or inspires our admiration,
and it is one of the easiest and most natural

[column 2]

ways of making each other happy as we go
toiling along in doubt and discouragement,
sometimes feeling that we are a failure—just
one word of praise from a friend renews our
courage, gives us new hope, and enables us to
struggle on with better success; but when every
energy is strained to do our part well, and no
word of approval comes to us as a sweet re-
ward, we grow weary and disheartened; 'tis not
always enough to know that God knows and
will reward us in His own due time; we want
our associates, on whom so much of our happi-
ness depends, to give us loving assurances.
We expect our loved ones to take everything
for granted after one or two assurances; but
the ardent lover is continually expressing his
regard; he leaves no room for doubt or thoughts
of indifference or negligence; but after marriage
the wife may listen in vain for the words of
praise and smiles of approval that once won
her heart.  And wives, too, forget that though
man may effect to ignore many outward ex-
pressions of the thoughts within, yet he is the
exception who does not appreciate it and grow
more tender and affectionate under the influence
of approval.
     Say a pleasant word to a friend, pay him a 
neat compliment, and see how ingeniously he
will guide after conversations into a repetition
of what gave him a comfortable impression of
himself.  A lady once remarked to me, that
she once entertained the idea that to win
friends she must impress people with a good
opinion of herself, but now she thought it
necessary to give people a good opinion of
themselves if we want to win their hearts.  It
is the general opinion that people become too
easily satisfied with their efforts if praised;
it may be so with ignoble natures, but the
noble and intelligent, which form a large por-
tion of mankind, will increase their diligence
to attain excellence, and if, perchance, praise
has been misapplied, it will not produce satis-
faction, but sorrow that their virtues were over-
estimated.
     Husbands and wives, strive to appreciate all
the good in each other, nor allow yourselves to
withhold what you deem a just reward of
praise. 
     Mothers, fathers, never let your little ones
hunger and thirst for your approval when they
have done well, it will be one of the best safe-
guards in the hours of temptation that multiply
around childhood and youth.
     Friends, be liberal in your approval of each
other, if you possess any external or internal
grace or virtue.  Will it not highten your own
opinion of it, and will you not guard it with
greater care if it give pleasure to your friend?
Be honest and sincere, and always tell your
loved ones just how much you love them; don't
let them starve to death for the expressions of 
love that would make this earth a paradise.
Inscribe your appreciation on their hearts
instead of on their tomb stones.  What is post
mortem love?  The flowers that beautify the
coffin would have eased many a heart-ache,
satisfied many a longing.  Do your work well
—use tact and good judgement—and do not
disgust and offend by clumsiness where you
aim to please; learn to praise in a graceful
manner, and make all in love with the princi-
ple.
						SUN FLOWER.


Miss Edith Martineau, a daughter of Rev.
Dr. James Martineau, has just been elected an
associate member of the Royal Society of 
Painters in Water-colors.
	The Queen of Sweden has been ordered by
her doctors to get up early, make her own bed,
take care of her own room, work in the garden
and take long walks.  Under this regimen, her
health is visibly improving.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THEIR INHERITANCE.

O, far away in a sea-side home
	Two anxious parents knelt;
The prayer that trembled on their lips
	Deep in their hearts was felt.
"O, Father, open Thou the way
	That we our home may leave,
And 'mid Thy people grant we may
	Inheritance receive."
As morning light through darkness breaks,
	He opened out the way;
Sweet was their joy to leave the world
	And parting words to say.
Through toilsome months and dang'rous paths
	In gratitude they still
Kept on their way, and closer strove
	To learn God's holy will.
Ne'er sad complaints nor vain regrets
	Uprose to cloud their light,
His voice came nearer to their souls,
	His purpose to their sight;
Aye! distance shut out worldly ills,
	 And industry made warm
Their hearts with sweet content and closed 
	Their homes 'gainst need and storm.
Fair Zion grew, and 'round their home
	Dear children laughed and played
By purling streams in peaceful streets,
	Or in their orchard's shade.

The Temple's grandeur, over spires--
	O'er all the valley rose,
That House so dear to faithful Saints,
	So envied by their foes.
From east and west the strangers came
	In cars of splendid ease,
Nor knew, nor cared, the journeys old
	That had been borne by these;
Nor thought, nor cared how years of toil
	Part of our being grow;
How gold is powerless to bind
	Our rights, though wielded so—
They only saw the city fair,
	As in its Sabbath dress,
And weighed the stranger's pleasure more
	Than the Saints' faithfulness.

From lip to lip the tidings flew,
	A thousand times retold;
(Aye! woe lurked 'neath the smiling face
	And want beneath the gold;)
"For years of toil and scant returns—
	To ease us in our age,
Here is a fortune in an hour
	For this small heritage."
From mind to mind the impulse spread,
	And hands met over gold
That ne'er had felt each other's touch
	Had TRUTH not wealth been told.
And, looking out from open doors,
	How soon the fact was met—
With lonely sense—a stranger's face,
	With cold aversion set. 
On fever's bed a darling lies,
	And pleads with homesick pain,
"I want my own dear little room
	And playmates back again;
I want to see our orchard trees
	And play around our door,
And go to school and Sunday School
	Just where I did before.
O, buy it back, I want to see
	The Temple.  Ere I pray,
I look and miss it every hour—
	Why did we come away?
I passed the home where I was born,
	Bessie and Johnnie, too,
A great, proud man was standing there,
	And caught me looking through;
So stern he looked and spoke to me,
	I hurried quick away.
O, pa, that man might drive the Saints
	If trouble comes, some day.
Please buy it back, the roses hang
	Right at my window now,
I know the birds have come to build
	In ev'ry apple bough;
My swing is by the cherry tree,
	And where my trap I set

[Column 2]
For busy sparrows, they are thick—
	Pa, try and buy it yet?
The grass ain't thick here like 'tis there,
	Calo and us can't play
Half good; Oh, everything's so strange—
	Why did we come away?
Pa, when I am a man I'll work
	And you shall work no more.
Pa, you forgot; the home was ours,
	You said so long before;
We'd not have sold the home from you,
	When you were weak and old—
You let him have it from us all—
	For just—a bag—of gold!"

Vain tears fell on the dear one's face,
	They sobbed, "O, cruel fate
That brings its penance though we feel
	Repentance all too late"

Years hurried on, and changes great 
	Had made the world like new;
Chaos and avarice had fled,
	And men were proven true.
A noble city reared its spires
	Above its foliage green,
And shaded walks with silver streams
	Showed here and there between.

Day after day before its King
	In humble rev'rence came
His subjects, each and every one
	With dearest hope and claim;
The gift of an inheritance
	In Zion the redeemed;
How sweet the hope! and trials past
	Of trivial moment seemed.
O, wondrous were the blessed words
	Unto the faithful told,
Each was repaid with justice true
	For loss, a thousand fold.
But others! angels pitying turned,
	And hearts turned faint away,
Who but received the fruit of seed
	Sown in a bygone day.
Faded and tattered wanderers
	From Truth, they had come back,
And saw the harvest of their days
	Barren as desert track.
"Inheritance? Not masters now,
	Servants ye are enrolled—
Inheritance that once was  yours
	Ye parted with for gold!"
	AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.


A FEW THOUGHTS.
DEAR EDITOR:
	I feel it my duty to write a few lines for our
valuable paper. Our position at the present
time is one of vast importance to the ladies of
Utah, in connection with the noble ladies who
are boldly taking the lead in giving woman the
opportunities for development that has been
denied the past generation, and that it is only
a question of time when it will be proved be-
yond a doubt that woman was intended for
something higher than a mere household drudge;
that her capabilities, if cultivated, were equal
to man’s; that God placed her by the side of
man for a helpmate in the fullest sense of the
word, a counselor and friend, with the same
faculties, the same aspirations, the same love
of goodness, of purity, of virtue, of chastity,
of order, of true government and executive
powers that man has, and which are being
demonstrated in the movements of a few noble,
women, that are leading out from under the
bondage of centuries, and seeking the advance-
ment and elevation of their sisters, the women
of the world; and we, as the daughters of Zion,
hail with delight the bright future. Being in
possession of the Spirit of the Lord, we realize
the importance of advancement and education,
and we will lend our aid and all the ability the
Lord has given us to this end.
	We hope the ladies in this great movement
will see the necessity of an unbiased platform,

[Column 2]
and let the spirit of equal rights guide their
deliberations, that no partyism may destroy
the good that can be done by unity of action.
We endorse the resolution of Mrs. Robinson,
and do not see the necessity of an apology for
Utah ladies being admitted as delegates. The
ladies of Utah have been striving for years to
enlighten their sisters on these points. They
have an organization which extends all over
the world, wherever there is a church with
this object in view—the purification and eleva-
tion of the human family—and to raise women
to a higher plane of intelligence; and we are
proud of the success that has attended the
efforts, although but few, in comparison to the
whole, have realized that it is incumbent
in all to help, but hope in the future that more
will come to the front and help to sustain our
paper—the EXPONENT—and through that
medium exchange our ideas, and cultivate the
talents the Lord has given us,and also dissemi-
nate the principles of advancement and culture
to one another, thereby giving confidence and
and support to those who are in responsible
positions.
	We all have duties to perform as Saints.
All who have received the Holy Ghost have
the right to teach the principles of the Gospel
and help defend the rights of the sisterhood,
according to the light we have received. We
have only to read the speeches of the cultured
women of the world to convince us what can
be done if we will only throw off the yoke of
custom and superstition by which we have
been surrounded, and come to the rescue of the
daughters of Eve, and seek to purify and ele-
vate ourselves to that high standard of cultiva-
tion, which it was designed we should arrive at
by our Father in heaven, when we left His
presence to become mothers of the sons and
daughters of men. The time is fast approach-
ing when we will be called on to give an ac-
count of stewardship, and how shall we account
for the opportunities lost? or have we done our
duties faithfully in all things? Have we used
the talents given us to the glory of God? Have
we not rather hid our talents under a bushel?
Have we dealt unjustly with one another, to
court favor, or judged unjustly our brother or
sister? Do we not know that “judgment is
mine, saith the Lord, I will deal out judgment
and equity?” and as we sow so will we reap.
	The exigencies of the times demands an ex-
amination of ourselves, and let us ask, have
we a testimony of the truth of the Gospel
that is indisputable? If not, do not think to
deceive ourselves into the belief that we can
stand the trials that are in the near future,
without a true knowledge, and lose no time in
seeking it by mighty faith and prayer, until
we obtain it, for we will have to contend with
foe without and foe within, and if our faith
cannot be shaken in one way, it will be tried in
another. We have nothing to support us if
we do not live so that the blessing of God and
His Spirit cannot be and abide with us; let us
live pure before the Lord, be chaste in our
thoughts, and let true charity abide in our
hearts; let us sacrifice ourselves to the noble
work of advancement and culture of ourselves
and our sons and daughters; teach them the
laws of life and health, of the chastity and
purity of the races; let no false idea deter us
from this duty, as we will be held accountable
if we neglect this all-important subject; let us
not forget that our children are our glory, and
we must try to save them; although they falter
by the way, ever be on hand to lift them up;
never by unkindness give them a push down-
ward, but let salvation and true charity be our
motto.
	Praying for the advancement and success of
all that tends to the elevation of humanity,
I am,
	Your sister in the Gospel of peace,
						S. A. Fullmer.
Orangeville, Emery Co., April 20, 1888.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine. 
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
	Salt	Lake City. Utah.
Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, 	-	-	-	June 1, 1888.


[Column 1]	
	MANTI TEMPLE DEDICATION.
	The dedication of the Temple at Manti in 
Sanpete Co., on the 21st day of May, 1888, was
one of the greatest events in the history of the 
Church.  The Temple itself is the grandest one 
yet built in this dispensation, and standing, as it 
does, in the side of the mountain, which has been
partly cut away, that this house of the Lord might
be established there, gives it a prestige which no
other Temple has, and the terrace work below 
adds grandeur to the surroundings, and gives to 
this superb edifice a very imposing appearance.
	In the early morning of the day of the dedica-
tion, hundreds of people were gathered at the 
east entrance of the Temple waiting for the open-
ing of the doors, that they might enter into that
sacred place.  One could not help feeling before-
hand the importance of so great an occasion, and
to be peculiarly impressed with its solemnity and
significance.  It was calculated to make the
thoughtful look backward to the ages long past,
when the ancient people of Israel builded temples
unto the Most High, and recall the events recorded
in history of the Lord's dealings with them from
time to time, and to awaken in the mind many
lofty and inspiring themes, both of the past and
present.  The Latter-day Saints have been taught
much concerning the objects to be accomplished 
and the ordinances to be performed for the living
and for the dead in Temples, and it fills the
human soul with the most sacred and heavenly 
emotions to contemplate these wondrous subjects,
revealed only through prophets and men of God
to those who are willing to render obedience to
divine laws and commands.  It would be a diffi-
cult task, indeed, to attempt to portray in words
the sentiments and emotions that thrilled the
hearts of the Latter-day Saints on the memorable
occasion of the Temple dedication at Manti, even
before they entered the doors.  Looking about on 
that assemblage of people, flocking around the
archways and doors of the building, and remem-
bering who they were, gathered from many
nations, one of a family and two of a city, and
now coming up to the House of the Lord in the
tops of the mountains, for such, indeed, it seemed,
these, and a thousand other thoughts, upon kin-
dred topics, passed quickly through the mind;
and even there one could easily fancy that the
spirits of the departed hovered near, waiting for 
the demonstrations, that were to herald the work
to be done for them in this holy Temple.
	The bands were playing in the distance, and
the music floating out in the clear morning air
arose like an orison to heaven, but above all
earthly sounds, and far more deep and inspirational,
was the whispering of the still small voice, that
thrilled every pulse and throbbed in every vein.
It was as though one stood in a holy presence of
which the soul was conscious.
	At ten o'clock precisely the doors were opened,
and very soon the hall of the Temple was filled.

[Column 2]
At the East side of the hall are the stands for the
presiding officers of the Melchisedek priesthood
in their order, and on the West side are the
stands for the presiding officers of the Aaronic 
priesthood.  In these stands the brethren were
seated according to their rank in office.
	In front of the stands, at the East side of the
hall, were the music stands, the organ and the 
choir.
	The dedicatory services—Apostle Lorenzo
Snow presiding—commenced by the choir singing
the good old hymn, so appropriate for the opening
of an impressive service:
	"Lord, we come before Thee now,
	At Thy feet we humbly bow."
     Apostle Lorenzo Snow then explained that at
the dedication of the Kirtland Temple a prayer,
which was given by revelation to the Prophet
Joseph Smith, was read, and said that one of the
servants of God in this day had been inspired to
write the dedicatory prayer for this occasion.
Apostle Snow then read in an effective manner
the prayer which had been given, while that vast
concourse of people bowed their heads in reverence
to the Most High, unto whom the house was dedi-
cated, in every part and portion thereof, in the 
purest and most sublime language.  At the close
of the prayer the choir sang the dedication hymn
—with a chorus, written expressly for the occasion,
by Charles Walker, of St. George—beginning:
	"Righteous God, th' Eternal Father."
	The first speaker was Patriarch John Smith.
He spoke of having been present at the dedica-
tion of the Temple in Kirtland, though only a 
child at the time, and that he had attended the
dedication of the several Temples that had been
built since that time.  Testified, also, to the truth
of the Gospel, and felt confident if the Saints
would live in obedience to the laws of God no
power should prevail against them.
	Apostle John Henry Smith was the next
speaker; spoke very feelingly of the promises of
the Almighty to His faithful children, and closed
by earnestly exhorting all present to be faithful to 
their trust.
	President John Morgan, who followed, in the
course of his remarks said he regarded the
present sight as a fulfillment of the prophecy made 
more than 2,500 years ago, that the mountain of
the Lord's house should be established in the tops
of the mountains, and that all nations should flow
unto it. The thought that friends who were dead 
were looking forth from the portals of eternity
with anxiety for the living to perform a work in 
their behalf, should be sufficient to stimulate
any one to be faithful and perform that labor
when the opportunity was afforded.
	President Jacob Gates bore a strong testimony
to the mission of Joseph Smith as a Prophet of
God, and to whom had been revealed the knowl-
edge which had been obtained of building 
Temples.
	Elder J. D. C. Young referred to his mother's
teachings, and the early impressions he received
from her; rejoiced in the building of Temples and
in contemplating the ordinances which were to be
performed in these sacred places.
	Elder Wm. F. Cahoon had attended the dedica-
tion of all the Temples that had been built in this
dispensation, except St. George.  Testified of 
the truth of "Mormonism," so called; had lived
in Joseph Smith's family in former days, and
knew him to be inspired of the Lord.  He was
baptized on the 16th of October, 1830, the year 
the Church was organized.  It was made known
to him before he was baptized that the Book of
Mormon was true, and an inspired record.
	Elder Robert Campbell felt, in contemplation of 
the history of the Church in the past and at the
present time, to exclaim, "What hath God
wrought?"  He felt positive if the Saints would
labor in union in establishing the work of God, no
power could shake them.

[Column 3]
    	Apostle John W. Taylor said he knew little of
his ancestry, but hoped to receive knowledge 
from God of those who had passed away without
knowing of the Gospel.  Spoke of a visit he had
from his brother, David John, after his death,
when he had a long conversation with him;
thought if he could have that privilege again he
could obtain much information that he desired
concerning those of whom he was now in ignor-
ance.  Related in a very impressive manner a 
dream or vision which was given him previous to
the funeral of President Young; had seen the 
whole procession, etc., in a panoramic view, and
had the characters of persons who took part 
therein portrayed to him by Brigham Young, and
that which would be their future.  Afterwards
saw the funeral in reality just as he had seen it in
vision, and the very persons that had previously 
been pointed out in the vision.  The recital was
very thrilling.
     President A. O. Smoot said, he could declare
of a truth that the Lord had accepted of the Tem-
ple, and that many thousands would have cause 
to rejoice over their deliverance through the
work therein performed.  Knew the Church
when it included but one small Stake; had
a testimony that the Lord was with Zion and 
that it would not be removed out of its place; had
never doubted or feared for the triumph of the
work for the fifty-three years past, felt assured the
time was near at hand when the promises concern-
ing the redemption of Zion would be fulfilled.
This was a blessed land and God would protect
His people if they would be faithful.  Testified
that he had heard Joseph and Brigham say,
"There would be hundreds and hundreds of tem-
ples built in this land.  "This people would grow
stronger and increase with persecution.
	Apostle F. D. Richards said his heart was full
of thanksgiving for the precious opportunity
afforded him.  The things which were from 
above were sacred and were to be spoken by con-
straint of the spirit.  On the third of next month
it would be fifty years since he embraced the truth.
Received a testimony on his way from his home
in New England to Missouri which effectually
satisfied him of the truth of the Gospel and the divin-
ity of the Prophet's calling.  To-day in the temple
were assembled representatives of all the quorums
and councils of the Church.  The erecting of
temples was of as much interest to those behind
the veil as to the living.  Ever since the site of
the temple had been selected the spirits of the de-
parted had watched with anxiety for its comple-
tion.  The magnitude of the work could be con-
ceived by a simple calculation for a few genera-
tions of one's ancestors.	*	*	*	*
	It was consistent to believe that upon an occa-
sion like the present the spirits of the faithful proph-
ets and apostles who had died should be present.
Urged the performance of ordinances for those
who had gone, and thought those who failed to do
what they could in this direction would be filled
with regret when they met their friends behind the
veil, and wish for another year upon the earth to
devote to the work.  Was but a youth in his
'teens when he became acquainted with Joseph
Smith, but knew him to have been a man of God
as also his successors in office.  Could testify that
the present apostles were increasing in knowledge,
devotion to God, and love for the people, and that
the people could safely trust them as their leaders.
Believed that the Lord as well as the spirits of
worthy men who had passed away would come 
and visit the temple and comfort the Saints by
their presence."
	The choir sang the Dedication Anthem, words 
by A. C. Smyth, selected from the prayer of Solo-
mon at the dedication of the temple at Jerusa-
lem: 
	"O Lord my God, hear Thou the prayer
	Thy
	Servant prayeth; have thou respect unto
	His prayer.


[Column 1]
	Hear Thou in Heaven, Thy dwelling place.
	And when Thou hearest, O Lord forgive."
	Amen.
	"President Canute Peterson said the present
was one of the happiest days he had ever experi-
enced.  Could testify that God would be quite as 
willing to accept of the Temple as the brethren
had been to dedicate it.  Believed that the site of
the Temple had been set apart ages before Presi-
dent Young had selected it upon which to erect
the present structure.  Did not believe there was
any chance work about our existence, or the
establishment of the Church and kingdom of
God."
	Elder W. H. Fulsom felt words were inadequate
to express his joy, and pleasure at being present
at the dedication of a Temple.  Had felt at times 
that the sacrifices made by the Saints in this
Temple district were too great; believed that his
life had been prolonged through the blessing of
God in response to a promise received in the St.
George Temple.  Felt to praise and bless and
thank the men who had labored upon the Temple.
Knew that the Temple had been accepted of the
Lord, and that His Spirit was present.
	President D. H. Wells said he had learned to
know God through the Gospel, and that the whole
world was ignorant of that fact until He revealed 
Himself unto His Prophet, Joseph Smith. "Men
existed before the foundations of the earth were
laid, but the knowledge they possessed in their 
former existence had been taken from them, and
the divine knowledge obtained in mortality had
gradually been lost through transgression.  The
ordinances of the Gospel and their object and
order were also unknown until revealed in this
age; and the same with the destiny of man.  The
saying, that no one would be lost except the sons
of perdition, would seem to imply that no woman
would be eternally lost."  Could testify from his
observation, that women, generally, were better
and more virtuous than men.  Invoked the bless-
ing of God upon the congregation.
	Apostle H. J. Grant said he enjoyed for the
first time in his life the privilege of speaking in a
Temple of God.  Nothing afforded him so much
happiness as the consciousness of God's approval
and the testimony which he had of the truth of
His work. Many throughout the world who did
not believe the Gospel were led by curiosity or
pride to compile genealogical works by the hun-
dred, for which they had no use after they were
printed.  In this way they were preparing the
way for the work to be performed in temples by
the Saints of God who were unable to obtain the
information otherwise which was thus afforded
them.  For this he felt to give God the glory.
	The choir sang the hymn of praise:
	Glorious is Thy name Almighty Lord,
	All the angels stand round about Thy throne:
	Let all nations bow before Thee,
	And declare Thy wondrous works.
	We praise Thee, we give thanks to Thee,
	We adore Thee, we glorify Thee.
	Lord, we adore Thee, we bless Thee.
	Lord, we thank Thee for Thy great glory.
	Heaven is Thy throne and earth is Thy footstool,
	Thou art King over all the world.
	Glorious is Thy name, O Lord.
	Blessing, and honor, be to God
	Forever and evermore.
	Apostle Lorenzo Snow leading,—the congrega-
tion united in shouting Hosannah to God and the
Lamb, forever and forever, amen.  This was re-
peated three times, after which the benediction
was pronounced by Apostle John Henry Smith.
	At 5 o'clock the same afternoon the children of
the Saints were admitted to the Temple, that
they might behold its beauty.  The little child-
ren have been among those who have given
of their means to assist in its building,
and it seemed such a sweet and appropriate com-
pensation for them to be permitted to visit and ad-
mire the place consecrated to the Lord.

[Column 2]
	The dedicatory services were repeated on Tues-
day and again on Wednesday with some change
of speakers.
	The people of Sanpete have had a rich feast in
the Temple services, and no doubt appreciate it to
a fullness, and feel well repaid for their sacrifices
in building a house unto the Lord.  President Peter-
son and his Counselors, and Supt. W. H. 
Fulsom are happy now in the realization of their
most sanguine expectations in the completion and
dedication of the sacred edifice for which they
have labored so indefatigably and untiringly.  But
there is still work to be done in finishing the
grounds that will take much time and considerable
means to accomplish.  The Saints who are inter-
ested in the Temple will still have ample oppor-
tunity to give of their means that the surroundings
may correspond in fitness of appearance and sol-
idity to the splendid structure itself.  Truly there
is a joy and satisfaction in the building of Tem-
ples and dedicating them to the Most High.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿EDITORIAL NOTES.

	The Conference of the Relief Society of this
Ssake will be held in the 14th Ward Assembly
Rooms in this city on Thursday, June 21, commenc-
ing at 10 a.m. and at 2 p.m.  Presidents or their
Counselors are expected to report the Relief So-
ciety over which they preside.  The Y. L. M. I. A.
of this Stake will hold their Conference on the
Friday following June 22, commencing at the same
hours.  The Primary Conference will be held on
Saturday June 23 in the Assembly Hall.
	Mrs. M. Isabella Horne, her son Richard and
her sister Mrs. H. Ellis, lelt this city on the 12th
of May for England to gather up the genealogy
of their ancestry. They sailed from New York
on the Steamer Circassia on the 19th of the same
month, and have probably landed ere this on
England’s shores. Sister Horne’s departure
should have been mentioned before, as we know
the sisters in various places are interested in her
welfare, and will pray for the preservation of her
health and her safe return home, when the object
of her journey has beery accomplished.


COUNT HIM WITH THE "GLORIOUS"
				DEAD.

[IN MEMORY OF ERASTUS SNOW, A FAITHFUL AND BE-
	LOVED APOSTLE OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST
	OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS.]

		For his life-long love of Truth,
		For his consecrated youth,
		For his aims that upward led,
		Count him with the glorious dead.

		For his course so free from guile—
		In a cause beset with trial;
		Frailer ones, through fear have fled,
		Count him with the glorious dead.

		For enduring many a woe,
		That the persecuted know,
		For his scorn of dangers dread,
		Count him with the glorious dead.

		For his eloquence and aid
		Gainst oppressive power arrayed,
		For his zeal with wisdom wed,
		Count him with the glorious dead.

		Staunch his soul that would not quail,
		Fast his "hope within the veil,"
		Bright the future that he read,
		Count him with the glorious dead.

		Safe his counsel, true and kind,
		Sense and foresight well combined;
		Lovingly, "The Flock" he fed,
		Count him with the glorious dead.

		For domestic graces rare,
		For his ever thoughtful care,


For the sunshine that he shed,
		Count him with the glorious dead.

		For the mighty good he wrought,
		For the "Fight of Faith" he fought,
		For his worth of heart and head,
		Count him with the glorious dead.

		Sorrowing friends, who drop a tear,
		Over one so justly dear,
		Mourn him not as lost, instead
		Count him with the glorious dead.

		Far beyond this changeful clime.
		Swells he now a host sublime;
		Far above earth's lowly bed,
		Count him with the glorious dead.
						EMILY H. WOODMANSEE.
Salt Lake city, May 30, 1888.


"MAY THIRTIETH, THE DAY OF
FLOWERS AND MEMORIES."
	Twenty years ago, the Grand Army of the Re-
public inaugurated the touchingly pathetic custom
now observed on Memorial Day, consecrating the
30th of May to sweet and sacred tribute.  Beauti-
ful and bright is the halo which surrounds the
inspiration and patriotism born of the hallowing
influences of this day; and all the world observes
with wonder and admiration our reverence for it.
	It was Gen. John A. Logan, who first proposed
that a day be set apart to tenderly revive the
memories of the past--and of the heroes who fell
in the Great War.  The thought of such an anni-
versary touched a mighty chord of tenderness in
the hearts of the people of our land, and soon
after its first proposal Congress made Memorial
Day a national holiday.  No day has grown so
quickly, nor ripened with such strength and tender-
ness in the hearts of the people as "Decoration
Day," or, as I better like to call it, "Memorial
Day."  No thoughtful person can fail to see how,
each year, this day grows dearer to all, and takes 
on a tenderer and deeper significance.  Each year
the number of veterans who come to strew with
flowers the graves of comrades, grows less; each
year names are added to the mighty roll of those
who are "mustered out" forever; but the day will
not die; our children and their children will ob-
serve it, for never shall be forgotten the principle,
for which they fought and died.
	"O, never will the Land forget
	How gushed the life blood of her brave."
	Memorial Day has proven a wondrous factor is
welding anew the broken links of love 'twixt the 
North and the South, the "Blue" now joining the
"Grey" in the beautiful services of Memorial Day.
Afar off in lonely swamp, and in the valley 'neath
the pines, where sleeps many an "unknown" hero
nature's kindly hand, with gentle grace, has robed
the mound with vines and flowers.  So, all over
the South land to-day, nature, with her "mantle of
charity"--flowers--is covering the marks of the
hosts who fought in our great War, and redoubt
and rifle-pit are half hidden by creeping grass and
clambering vines.
	No more graceful tribute was ever paid to valor
than when Memorial Day was set apart; no monu-
ment of sculptured marble, costly bronze, nor
granite pile, can so fitly honor the memory of our
soldier-dead as the observance of this day.  We
are adding, too, as the years go by, to the
mighty roll of those who fought and died for the
Union, the names of all our loved and lost, for,
	"There is no fireside, howso'er defended,
	But hath one vacant chair."
	Time, the great healer, has laid his hand
upon the hearts of those who mourned for the
brave and true who fell in the smoke and roar of
battle, or perished in prison, or died in the hos-
pital; but never can they forget; and though their
sorrow is less keen, the memories of those thus
lost are tender and true.


O, sacred Memorial Day! when memories of
all the precious past sweep o'er our souls, and 
soften every feeling save regret; a day when we
twine the cypress and the myrtle and heap with 
freshest flowers the graves where lie buried 
many a heart and hope.

	Bring flowers to-day for the true and brave,
		Who fought for the Union and you;
	Then crown with the myrtle and laurel
		The graves of the "Grey" and the "Blue."
	Let carnage and strife be forgotten,
		And the curtains of peace be hung
	O'er all; and the blest deeds of mercy,
		O, loud let their  glories be sung.
	Bring pansies, all golden and purple,
		Like thoughts of dear faces, long gone;
	The purple, the type of the loyal,
		The gold, of an heavenly crown.
	Bring lilies and cowslips and snowdrops,
		And roses blood-red and pure white,
	With woodbine and jasmine and cypress, 
		Wreathe a crown for our "army of light."
	And the "Day" with its lesson of flow'rs,
		Shall teach the children who see,
	We honor the heroes, who saved us,
		 Our land and our Union free.
	But when with footsteps slow we tread
		The streets of the silent town.
	And on the graves of our soldier-dead,
		We gently lay our chaplets down,—

	We'll keep a few of the flowers fair,
		The heliotrope and sweet harebell,
	For households that we know full well, 
		Where Death hath taken the larger share,
	And, methinks, it will be best—to say—
		To all who mourn, Memorial Day! 
								WOODINA.
			Mell G. Woods.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


AFTER THE SAD NEWS.

My little boys, my darlings, stay with me!
The postman brought this letter which you see.
I've opened it, and all its contents read;
'Tis from aunt Lissie, Grandma Greene is dead!
Oh, Lee! my first born son, so large and tall,
You're old enough to comprehend it all.
Your loving arms, close, close around me twine,
And for a moment press your cheek to mine;
And you too, Willie, you can understand,
Sit here, dear boy, and hold your mother's hand.

In years to come, with tender, sober thought,
You will recall bright truths which grandma taught.
Evan and Heber are so young that they
Scarce now remember when she went away.
Her gentle face my babies will forget,
With all its love, but I shall see it yet. 
My brothers—sisters, we shall see her still,
Oft precious dreams will her sweet presence fill;
Soothing our cares with smiles and fond embrace,
Rich with the glories of her dwelling place.

She will be near us in each trying hour,
And father too, and we shall feel the power
Of their true love, united, pure and strong;
Strengthening, guiding, helping us along;
That we may find the rest which they have found,
In that blest home where peace and joy abound.
Let us be faithful, brothers, sisters mine,
That we may meet them in that home divine;
'Twill not be long, we will with reverence wait,
For their sweet welcome at the Pearly Gate.
									LULA.


DEATH OF SUSAN K. GREENE.  

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Sister Susan Kent Greene departed this life,
April 17,1888, at her home,in Marion,Cassia Co.,
Idaho, after an illness of thirteen days.
     She was buried on the 19th; a procession fol-
lowed the remains from the residence to the
Oakley Hall, where the services were held
at 2 p.m., Stake President H. D. Haight presid-
ing.  The choir sang the hymn, “Softly beams the
sacred dawning.” Prayer by Bro. D. P.


Curtis.  Singing, "O, my Father, Thou that
dwellest."  The friends and relatives assembled
were addressed in a most consoling manner by
Brothers Moroni Pickett, Robert Wilson and
O. P. Bates.  Choir sang, "Farewell, all earthly
honors."  At the burying ground the dedicatory
prayer was offered by Bro. Cyrus Tolman.
	Sister Greene was entirely confined to the house
during the past winter on account of feeble health,
but as the genial warmth of spring came on, she 
ventured out the Sunday preceding, and on the
April fast day.  At the latter meeting she arose
and bore a powerful testimony to the truth, ex-
pressing her joy and faith in her Father's work,
remarking how thankful she was that her race
was so nearly run, that the time would soon come
when she would behold His face.
	Immediately after taking her seat her right arm
became numb and powerless.  The stroke spread
so that before night she was prostrated upon
the bed of sickness from which she never arose.
Though our acquaintance with our departed sister
had been of comparatively short duration, and
was not, perhaps, as intimate as that of many of
your readers, yet we, as a Society and as a com-
munity, had seen and known enough of her pure,
humble and faithful character to draw out our
deepest love and respect, and our true apprecia-
tion of her worth.
	And now, as a Society of sisters, we fully
realize the loss we sustain in her departure, though
it be to her gain; and we tender our heartfelt
sympathy to her many friends and relatives left 
behind, especially to her children, whom she ever
led in the straight and narrow way, and who fully
realize, better than we can tell them, that the
time will be but short when, if they will, they may
again meet her, their beloved mother, never more
to part.
				FANNIE GORRINGE, Prest.,
				F. AMELIA PICKETT, Coun.


[Column 1]
EGYPTIAN WOMEN.
BY CHARLOTTE B. WILBOUR.
No 7.
SCHOOLS AND EDUCATION.
	There are in Egypt governmental schools,
colleges, and universities for boys, Coptic
schools, and schools of religious and benevolent
societies.  At Cairo and Alexandria they are
large and well situated.  The sons and daughters
of poor foreigners attend them, and make
creditable progress.  The short time girls may
attend school, does not permit them to get
much beyond reading and sewing.  The large,
free university of El Azhar, at Cairo, has a
woman’s department for midwifery attached to
the medical school, not because the State desires
to educate women, but because the religion of
the country excludes male physicians from the
harem, except in unusual cases.  In some of
the larger towns along the river, small schools
for boys are taught by Greek priests and
Catholic monks.  Comparatively few girls at-
tend school; there is a deep seated prejudice
against their reading and understanding num-
bers, and it is considered immoral for them to
sit under a roof with strange boys, though they
may play with them out of doors.  If the girl
can read, she will not wish to bring the water,
drive the buffalo to the river, grind the doorra;
she will not work; she will be like the boy.
These reasons were many times given us by
men and boys who were opposed to the educa-
tion of girls.
	We were much interested in the mission
schools.  The American mission in its eleven
schools and colleges, teaches an average attend-
ance of 1,350 pupils, at an annual cost of
$8,000 dollars; in its six girl schools, with an
average attendance of 630, the cost of instruc-

[Column 2]
tion is but $2,600, or about $4 per girl.  Of
the 1,400 girls enrolled; 10 study physiology,
112 Arabic, 116 geography, 111 French, 248
arithmetic and the American language.  More
than fifty other independent schools scattered
all over Egypt, have grown up under the en-
couragement of the mission and are taught by
graduates of its schools.  In these an average
attendance of more than 2,000 schollars, 300
being girls, are taught at a yearly cost of $6,000.
At Assyoot our consular agent, M. Khayatt,
an Egyptian, besides supporting a school of
200 girls and boys, gives liberally to the college
and schools of the American mission.  Miss
Thompson, the superintendent teacher of the
mission schools, of Cairo, for girls, has given
us another evidence of womanly energy and
unselfish capacity.  Miss Whately has for
several years carried on a girl’s school and
earned the encomiums of her English patrons.
At the school in Luxor, we find girls in the
first class reading Peter Parley; one of them
has recently married the native teacher.  I
made every effort possible to learn the compara-
tive condition of women and girls, and my
questions to priests, consuls, town officers and
teachers as to the place they assigned to my
side of humanity, gave much amusement to my
sons and daughters.
	Among those who are doing good to the
people and educating the children, I make most
honorable mention of Pere Samuel, a Neapolitan
priest, who has spent more than twenty years
in Upper Egypt.  He has given of his time
and means to the sick and needy of every class
and sect, without stint or reward.  On our re-
turn voyage we anchored at the village of
Negadeh and spent an afternoon with the old
man in his church and garden.  We found the
church clean and cool.  More than forty years
ago he built it, a worthy work of architecture
and finish.  A Belgian lady has given him a
parlor organ, and he is organist and choir as
well as priest.  There are fine bits of old tem-
ples built into the doors and pillars, which he
shows with pride.  He said that women came
to church and were more than half his congre-
gation.  He led us to his school of seventy little
better-size boys, and three little girls. The
boys were writing on tin slates; some of the
texts were in Coptic.  The Pere told us that he
read the service in Latin, Arabic, and Coptic,
and was teaching the Copt boys the language of
their service, that they might pray intelligently.
Mr. Wilbour asked if he had ever converted
Muslims; he was quite radiant as he replied:
“I have baptized 42 Muslims in my 50 years
of service.” He said that before the British
occupation he had a school of 50 girls, but
donations failed after that began; he had to
give up with much regret, and feared that he
could never re-open it.  He resignedly added:
“But that must always be, the girls after the
boys.” Our sailors who knew him, spoke of
him as a saint who in time of epidemics, went
fearlessly among the dying and the dead, and
did his duty by all in suffering.  Grand old
man, when the work falls from his willing hands,
who shall take it up?
	We visited Muslim schools without satisfac-
tion, except to our curiosity.  Let me tell you
what I saw in one at Luxor.  The school was
found under a cornstock shed, open on one
side.  When we entered, a lively boy ran to
an elevated divan at one end of the shed, and
shouted up to the master, who was lying on the
divan with a pillow under his head.  He sat
up and looked at us with soft, dreamy eyes,
but did not recognize our salutation, though
twice repeated.  Not a ray of intelligence
passed over his handsome face; we were em-
barrassed, and eighty little faces turned toward
us in sympathy.  My daughter beckoned to
the lively lad, who came to us, and asked that
the boys might repeat a prayer from the Koran.
The monitor gave the command to the school,
and the slates were laid down and the recita-


tion began in a low voice, which grew louder
and louder every moment till the little half-
naked brown bodies rocked to and fro as
though intoxicated.  When the recitation was
over, we walked about and looked at the slates,
at the babies crowded up in a dirty corner,
made our obeisance to the statue of the Sleepy
God on the divan, and as we went out, he fell
back upon his pillow.
     In most of the Coptic and Muslim schools,
children learn a little arithmetic, reading and
writing, and some passages of the Scripture or
the Koran.  Many slaves attend the religious
and mission schools, and are often far better
educated than their masters, who take great
pride in their learning.  Copts are as frequently
sent to the mission schools as to their own, and
are very clever and intelligent.  At Cairo there is
a boarding school for girls, conducted by nuns,
where many girls spend a year, or attend as
day scholars.  In the families of the rich, a
foreign governess is employed, who teaches
French and needle-work; but girls are seldom
taught to write, as they might make an im-
proper use of their knowledge.  Teachers
agree that girls do not keep up their reading
after they leave school; the books loaned them
are often returned with the leaves uncut.  But
there have been and are some well-educated
Muslim women in the higher classes; they are
counted particularly dangerous and their ex-
ample pernicious.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
THE ALLOWANCE.
    
	There are few ways in which wives are made
more uncomfortable than on the question of
their personal expenditures, nor for which they
have to suffer greater humiliation.
	If they want a new dress, a pair of gloves, a
new pair of shoes, a ribbon, they must go and
enter into an explanation about it all with the
husband and very possibly before the children,
who cannot but be injured by the lesson they
thus learn concerning the dependence of their 
mother, not to mention her fallibility, which is
apt to be tolerably well exposed in the course 
of the conversation.
	Nothing, surely, can so belittle a wife, and
make her unfit to be the mate and helpmate
she should be, as to dwarf and crowd her into
cowardly suppliance for the things she fells she
must have and cannot do without.  We have
known of women whose proud spirits were so 
hurt by the ordeal, that they have worn 
their shoes to the ground and have turned and
scoured and pieced and "made over" for years,
while looking like shabby genteel beggars,
rather than ask for their right and due, while
their husbands never gave a thought to the
matter as long as they heard no complaints;
and as for themselves, wore the best the tailors
could give them; and we have known other
women who determined, after sore experience,
neither to go without nor beg, lay in wait to
rob their husband's pockets of a half dollar
this week, and a quarter that, making false
entries in the housekeeping accounts, and even
stealing and selling the hen's eggs to swell the
secret amount into a sum sufficient to keep them-
selves' and their children's supply decent, be-
coming thieves in the process, and liable to
transmit the tendency to dishonest dealings to 
children born after the habit was formed, owing
to the penury or distrust of their husbands.
	If a man is really poor, and is struggling
hard to keep his head above water, he has
some justification; but if his wife is worthy of
the name of wife at all, even then she will do
better for being trusted in the matter and not
having to run to him for every spool of
cotton.
	It was early in the power of the fathers of
these wives to have obviated, to some extent,
the difficulties of this nature, which were to

[Column 2]
surround their daughters later in life.  If, as
soon as the girls left school, the father, with
the advice and supervision of the mother, gave
to her a fixed sum, out of which, with no more,
she was to furnish her wardrobe, by the time of
marriage she would have learned perfectly how
to spend money and how to get the most for it,
and her lover would be pretty sure to have
information of the fact and be able to govern
himself accordingly, and either maintaining
the same or increasing or diminishing it as his
income required, could still have recognized
the fact, and left her that little but necessary
independence which her own purse gives every
woman.
	The wife and mother does not work for her-
self alone, but toils unceasingly for others, and
she is entitled to some other wage than love
and kindness; for what is it she does? In many
houses the wife is the only servant; she is cook,
maid-of-all-work, nurse and seamstress; she is
tailoress for the boys' trowsers, milliner for the
girls' hats; ten to one makes, if she does not
also cut and baste, their frocks; and in any one 
of these capacities it is universally recognized
for every other worker, that the laborer is
worthy of his hire.  As cook or mere char
woman, her wages would be more than a hun-
dred dollars a year with board; as nurse or
seamstress, even more, while neither tailoress or
dressmaker would have much less than a dollar
a day.  And, meanwhile, we pass over her
general management, marketing, mending,
darning, overseeing and all the rest, because
there the wages of love may be deemed suffi-
cient, and doubtless she feels them so for all,
and when she asks, it is not so much for her-
self as for the sake of maintaining the decency,
good name and good appearance, which would
be to the shame if she did not have.
	We think that husband who has any certainty
of income would do well to take into considera-
tion the subject of his wife's wages, and see if
he cannot accord to her the spending of one
unquestioned dollar, and then make, according
to his ability, some fixed allowance of money,
be it ever so small, on which the wife can rely,
and over which she can be absolute mistress.
There is not one wife in ten thousand that will
abuse the pleasant confidence; and all but that
one, will be likely to make it cover some of the
childrens' and some of the family expenses, as
well as their own; and it can be done at first
provisionally for one year or two, so that in
case it did not work well a return to the old
system of dependence and petition could be 
had.  We can hardly, however, think of a
case where it would not work well.  WIthout
doubt, any head of a house would find his ad-
vantage in this course, in the character it
would give his household, in the happy sense
of responsibility it would give his wife, and in
the relief from requests and advice in small
things which it would give himself.
	If he improved his wife, as thus he could
hardly help doing, he would be improving the
conduct of all his family and increasing the
harmony of his household.
	In the meantime, let him remember that
the wrongs done the mother, nature avenges in
the children, and where even in so small a 
matter as her clothes, that mother is a slave
and a beggar, the children are the children of
a slave and a beggar, and sooner or later are
sure to betray their descent.—Selected.


WOMAN'S VOICE.
		EAGLE ROCK, Idaho, May 11, 1888.

DEAR EDITOR:
	It gives me great pleasure to have the oppor-
tunity, sometimes, of reading your paper, and
in perusing the different articles concerning
many of our people.


If we, as young sisters, would read more of
the Bible and other Church works, we would
become better acquainted with the principles 
of the Gospel, then we would be able to answer
any question which might be asked of us.
*	*	*	Some of us may think
we study a great deal now, but I don’t think
we can study too much of the principles of
the Gospel.	
	In standing up before a congregation to
occupy a few moments, we naturally feel timid,
but the more we speak the more of that fear
goes from us. If we ask the Lord to help us
before we get up, He will do so, because we
cannot get along without the help of the Lord
at all times. He says if we will open our
mouth He will fill it. And why should we
be afraid to get up to speak? When some of
us are called on to sing or recite we sometimes
think, “Well, why didn’t they call on some one
that could do it better?” If we all were like
that, what would become of our meetings or
the young people of the Church.
	I remember when we first had an organiza-
tion of the Young Ladies’ Mutual Improve- 
ment Association, the President would call on
us to do something to take up the time; call on
one, “Well, I never sung, I know I can’t.” It
seems as though no one was interested in the
meeting. But we all know that the president
nor her counselors cannot carry on the meet-
ing alone, and if we know this, why not try 
and help them?	
	I can say that the sisters have improved
very much since the commencement of our
meetings; those who do come take right hold
and help all they can. That is some encourage-
ment for those who are presiding. If we can
only say two or three words, that is far better
than refusing. I notice in our meetings it is
very seldom any one refuses to respond; we
know a week ahead that our names are on the
programme, and why is that not time enough
for us to study our subject?
	The meeting will not improve us unless we
try and improve ourselves; if we get up from
time to time, and do not try to say a few words
more each time, I don’t think we will ever be
able to do so.
	Let us try and set an example for the younger
ones; if they think it is worthy of imitation
they will certainly take notice of our actions.
*	*	*	 We are doing as well
up here as can be expected according to the
number there is left, as the town has almost
gone away. We have twenty-two members
enrolled in the Young Ladies’ Association, and
about ten attending; one half does the work,
and the other half are quite willing to let
them do it.
	For one I feel like going forward and doing
the best I can to help others and improve
myself. 
	Your young and inexperienced sister in the
Gospel, 
	MAGGIE EVANS.


NOTES AND NEWS

	Julian Hawthorne owns the little old oak
table upon which Mary Stewart wrote her last
letter, the morning of her execution.

	At the United Labor Convention, which
met in Cincinnati on the 16th inst., the chief
point of discussion was woman suffrage. This
ended by adopting a resolution that suffrage is
inherent in citizenship, and is not to be abridged
or denied on account of sex.

	Mrs. Lide Merriweather, of Tennessee, says
that Southern men are not so apt to favor
woman suffrage as the men of the North and
West, but that when they do favor it, they


surpass all other men in the chivalrous ardor
with which they take up the idea.
	
	Mrs. Browning, though much beloved as a 
poet, is comparatively little known to the
public as a woman no authoritative and cir-
cumstantial biography of her having yet been
published. A London paper says that Mr. 
Robert Browning has nearly completed the
first portion of his "Reminiscences," which 
will include an interesting account of Mrs. 
Browning's early life.
	
	A meeting in memory of Dr. Clemence S.
Lozier was held Wednesday evening, at the 
Aberdeen Hotel, New York, Hamilton Wilcox
in the chair and Jane T Titcomb secretary.
Clara Brinkerhoff, Kate Palmer Stearns, Mar-
garet W. Ravenhill, Ruth S. Beatty Esther
Herrmann, Mrs. Mowry and the chairman
spoke on the worth of the departed. On mo-
tion of Mrs. Ravenhill, the chairman was em-
powered to select delegates to confer with other
organizations for a public demonstration and a 
permanent memorial. Miss Sarah C. Fuller
promised the co-operation of the Universal 
Peace Union.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LETTER.

		RAMAH, Valencia Co., N. M.,
						May 9th, 1888.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:

	We are having a most lovely spring, after
the severest winter ever known in this place
since the Saints settled here. Our prospects
are bright and everything is promising.
	On the evening of May 2nd, a most lament-
able accident occurred here. About 8:30 p.m.
Sister Amanda Tietjen, daughter of Elder Ira
Hatch,  the well known Lamanite missionary,
left her home for about twenty minutes; return-
ing, she discovered flames bursting from the
roof, door and window, and her husband fight-
ing the fire fiend, his face badly burned in the
vain attempt to rescue their oldest child, a
lovely little girl three years and four months
old. The alarm  was given about the time Sis-
ter Amanda saw it, and in five minutes almost
the entire adult population were on the scene,
battling with the raging monster. It was all
her two brothers could do to keep the poor
mother from rushing into the burning building,
where she would surely have perished. The 
cries of relatives of the little one, the roar of
flames, the agonized shrieks of the distracted
mother, make up the most heart-rending scene
it has ever been my lot to witness, and I trust
such another I may never see. By almost
superhuman efforts the body of the little one
was recovered in better condition than was at 
first expected.
	No blame can be attached to the mother,
who is most devoted to her children. The
cause of the fire is unknown. A more faithful, 
earnest worker in the Relief Society, Y. L.
Association and Sunday School would be hard
to find. The stricken family have the sym-
pathy of the entire community. 
	As ever, your sister in the Gospel,
					PHEBE A. MCNEIL.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	The soul is the fountain of love.—Amlieus.

	It is impossible to be a hero in anything un-
less one is a hero in faith.—J. G. Jacobi.

	Old men who have loved young company,
and been conversant continually with them,
have been of long life.—Lord Bacon.


The world is full of poetry; the air is living 
with its spirit, and the waves dance to the
music of its melodies.—J. G Percival.

	A passion for flowers is, I really think, the
only one which long sickness leaves untouched
with its chilling influence.—Mrs. Hemans.

	Wealth is a weak anchor, and glory cannot
support a man; this is the law of God, that
virtue only is firm, and cannot be shaken by a
tempest.—Pythagoras.

	Unless a variety of opinions are laid before
us, we have no opportunity of selection; the
purity of gold cannot be ascertained by a
single specimen.—Herodotus.

	We account the scriptures of God to be the
most sublime philosophy; I find more sure
marks of authenticity in the bible than in any
profane history whatever.—Sir I. Newton.

	The charities of life are scattered every-
where, enameling the vales of human beings
as the flowers paint the meadows; they are not
the fruit of study, nor the privilege of refine-
ment, but a natural instinct.—G Bancroft.

	There are two modes of establishing our re-
putation; to be praised by honest men, and to
be abused by rogues; it is best, however, to
secure the former, because it will be invariably
accompanied by the latter.—Colton.

	Heaven and God are best discerned through
tears; scarcely perhaps are discerned without
them. The constant association of prayer with
the hour of bereavement and the scenes of
death suffices to show this.—James Martineau.

	When you have made a mistake don't look
back at it long. Take the reason of the thing 
into  your mind, and then look forward. Mis-
takes are lessons of wisdom. The past cannot
be changed. The future is yet in your power.
—Hugh White.


﻿To all it is not granted to live long, but
each man has the power to live well. It is not
days, but deeds that measure life; the wicked
perish e’en before they die, the faithful though
departed live always.—After Seneca.


OBITUARY.

	We are called upon to mourn and record the death of
our beloved sister, Eliza Ann Snyder Haight, who de-
parted this life in Cedar City, May 24th, 1888, at 2 p.m.,
after a lingering illness of over three months. Sister Haight
was born October 22nd, 1815, in the Town of Sempronius,
Cayuga County, State of New York, and was married to
Isaac Chancy Haight in the early part of 1837, to whom
she bore seven children, four of whom survive, two sons
and two daughters. In 1838 she with her husband received
the Gospel as taught by the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, and were baptized at the same time by
Elder Peltiah Brown, after which their house became a
home for the Elders in their travels to and fro with the
message of salvation, and in the beginning of the year
1839 they moved with their llttle daugther Caroline, who
was a little over a year old to Nauvoo, Illinois, where
they met with the Lord's Prophet, Joseph Smith, with
whom they soon formed an acquaintance, and about whom
Sister Haight delighted to talk. They remained in Nauvoo
during the persecution, and left with the exodus of the
Saints in 1846, landing at Winter Quarters, making it their
home till 1847, when they crossed the plains with Presi-
dent Brigham Young and company, and located in Salt
Lake City. In 1853 the family moved to Cedar City, Iron
Co., where Sister Haight has since made her home. She
was a firm advocate of the principle of celestial marriage,
and lived in it since 1849. She waa a true and faithful
wife and mother. A few days before her departure she
called her children and grandchildren together, and after
kissing and blessing each one, she admonished them all to


be faithful and true to God and His cause, tears of peni-	
tence and joy visible on every hand. Sister Haight was
greatly loved and respected by her acquaintances and
relatives. We do not mourn as those without hope, but
we will miss her loving counsels, her happy face and cheery 
voice. God bless her forevermore; she has gone to receive
a crown she has faithfully waited for.
	With feelings of respect,
			Your sister in the covenant,
						CAROLINE K. A. JONES.


EARLY IN MAY
THE DRS. SHIPP
Design to issue the first number of 
The Salt Lake Sanitarian,
A monthly journal of
MEDICINE AND SURGERY.
DEVOTED TO THE PREVENTION AND CURE OF
disease and the Promulgation of the Laws of
Health and Life. It will contain 24 pages of interest-
ing reading matter, upon these important subjects, and
it will be our aim to keep fully abreast with the times.
The DRS. SHIPP, 	-	-	-	Editors. 
TERMS $2.00 A YEAR. AGENTS WANTED.
See Prospectus for full particulars. 

	Encouragement from those who will sustain us in
our undertaking is earnestly solicited, and we would
be pleased to hear from you. We will spare no effort to
give you a first class journal in every particular.
Address	DRS. SHIPP,	
	59 S., First East Street, Salt Lake City.

R.K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail 
Cash House.

R.K.THOMAS

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions 
in 
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS, 
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of 
DRY GOODS. 
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes. 
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
﻿The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
