VOL. 17.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 1, 1888.	NO.7.


THE RED-ROOT AND MORNING
GLORY.

At the close of the sunny hours,
	As the moon rose in the sky,

I went to refresh my flowers,
	For the air was hot and dry.

"Why should this weed by growing
	Here at the top of the bed,
To drink of the draught I am throwing,
	To my sweet flowers?" I said.

Then sat down my empty bucket,
	And took hold of the weed,
Up by the roots to pluck it,
	Ere it should scatter its seed.

But I paused, for close around it
	A morning glory twined;
There, before I had found it,
	Two lives were in one combined.

In the weed, I seemed to discover,
	And the vine which around it clung,
A brave, though uncouth lover,
	And a maiden fair and young.

I could not commit the slaughter,
	So I said to the Red-root, "Live,
And drink still of the water
	Which I to my flowerets give.

Had I been more alive to my duty,
	And displaced you long ago,
This gentle, delicate beauty
	Had learned without you to grow."

Here's a lesson for many mothers—
	Look well to your daughers needs;
Don't leave them to cling to others,
	Who may prove to be but weeds.

The Red-root and Morning-glory,
	In this flower-bed of ours,
Repeat the old, old story—
	Parents, protect your flowers!

		LULA,
July 27th, 1888.


[Column 1]

[For the EXPONENT.]
THE WOMEN OF UTAH.

PART IV.

WOMEN IN MEDICINE.
	"Once upon a time," says Herodotus, "in the
land of the wise there were no doctors," and,
we might add, once upon a time, not very
long ago, there were no women doctors, either
in the land of the wise, or any other land; but
behold the great change. Mankind have at
last awakened to the reality that we can not
only have women doctors, but that they are a
positive necessity. It is woman's nature to
lean to the ideal, the romantic, the pleasurable
side of life, to study literature, art and music,
to enjoy society in its happy phases, but
science, with its vast depths and difficulties,
has neither been sought nor desired by women
generally, and even if desired, the doors of
science have been closed in the faces of woman-
kind until a recent period. Even now, when
women are admitted into medical colleges, and
granted degrees, the majority of medical socie-
ties refuse admittance to women physicians.
Sydney Smith says it takes more time for a
women to make herself charming, than to make
herself learned, yet we know a woman who
has not only found time to be charming, but

[Column 2]

learned as well, and most of the readers of the
EXPONENT know her, too, for the good she has
done in the midst of the women of Utah.
	Romania B. Pratt was the first Utah woman
to devote herself to the study of medicine. She
one day saw a friend die, die for the want of
medical assistance. She says: "I saw her lying
on her bed, her life slowly ebbing away, and
no one near knew how to ease her pain or pre-
vent her death; it was a natural enough case,
and a little knowledge might have saved her.
Oh, how I longed to know something to do,
and at that moment I solemnly vowed to my-
self never to be found in such a position again,
and it was my aim ever afterward to arrange
my life-work that I might study the science
which would relieve suffering, appease pain,
prevent death."
	Mrs. Pratt was an educated, accomplished
young woman, and was very fond of music, an
accomplishment which she has utilized most
beneficially since becoming a physician, for
she says through practicing on the piano keys
her fingers attained a delicate touch, which is
quite necessary to a physician, especially in
operating on that tenderest organ, the eye,
one of her specialties. Mrs. Pratt entered the
Woman's Medical College in Philadelphia in
1873, and graduated four years later, 1877.
In the summer vacation between the college
terms of 1876-77 she filled the position as
student in the New England Hospital for
women and children in Boston, which she re-
garded as a very great privilege and advantage
to her. But not yet satisfied, she remained
sometime longer in Philadelphia, taking special
courses on the eye and ear at Willis' Hospital,
and a dispensary on Chestnut Street. After
leaving Philadelphia, she spent some time in
visiting Hydropathic institutions and hospitals,
remaining some weeks in the Elmira Water
Cure. In 1881-2 Mrs. Pratt again went East,
this time to the New York eye and ear Infirm-
ary, to further her knowledge in this speciality.
Dr. Pratt is an assiduous worker, and has done
incalculable good, not alone with her practice,
which is quite extensive and successful, but in
teaching to others. Ever since her return
from Philadelphia, she has had classes in
obstetrics, about twice a year or more, her
pupils coming mostly from the smaller settle-
ments, where there were no competent physi-
cians, and good midwives were a positive neces-
sity. Some seventy-five women have studied
under her instruction, and most of them have
passed a thorough examination under the
leading physicians of the city, thus obtaining
certificates authorizing them to practice in
midwifery. Dr. Pratt urged the necessity of a
Hospital almost immediately after her return
from college, and since the founding of the
Deseret Hospital, has been an earnest worker
in its behalf, and now most faithfully and
satisfactorily occupies the position of Resident
Physician.
	Notwithstanding all Dr. Pratt has accom-
plished, her life-work is scarcely begun, for,
still young and full of energy, her labors con
tinue incessantly, and her great desire for
knowledge compels her to devote much time to
study, that she may improve every passing
hour. With all her practice and study, the
Doctor often finds a few moments for music,
painting and light needle work. Her charm-
ing countenance, the picture of health and en-
joyment, draws one naturally towards her, and

[Column 3]

her busy life seems as happy as it is useful.
May it long continue so.
	Almost at the same time, or shortly after,
Dr. Pratt began the study of medicine, there
were others who saw the necessity of women
physicians in Utah, and who were filled with a
desire to become proficient in the profession.
What has been said of Dr. Pratt's work in
medicine, might also be said of the other lady
physicians, with little difference concerning
specialties, etc.
	Ellis R. Shipp was the second Mormon
woman to graduate in medicine. She left
home in 1875, and received her degree in
1878. Mrs. Shipp had been always much de-
voted to her home and family, and it was a
great effort for her to leave her home and
young children for so long a time, but she
realized the great benefit which must follow
the separation, not only to them and herself,
but to others, and she overcame her tender
longings for home and the hearthstone, for the
good she might do. The poet says, "The ten-
derest are the bravest," and Mrs. Shipp has
proven it true. While ardently engaged in
her studies at college, and attending the
lectures and operations in the surgery, Mrs.
Shipp was in delicate health. She passed
through, with proud and faithful resignation,
the hopeful, anxious time of motherhood, giv-
ing birth, while still at college, to a beautiful
child, on the 25th of May, 1877. As soon as
her attendants allowed, she was again engaged
in her studies, with her little new born babe
constantly near, that she might care for her,
herself. In the face of this devotion, who can
say that science for women ruins the home;
nor did the love and care of the child hinder
in any way the progress of the mother's studies,
but, on the contrary, the new life, the new joy
but enhanced the pleasure of the college life,
and Mrs. Shipp obtained as high a degree and
in as short a period as others who had no
children near to engage their time and atten-
tion. She left college not without her degree,
but with the highest compliments and recom-
mendations from the professors.
	Returning home, Dr. Ellis Shipp spent some
time lecturing through southern Utah, and
found many occasions on her way for practis-
ing her profession; also saw the great necessity
for classes in obstetrics, and later, when open-
ing her practice in Salt Lake, she gave instruc-
tions, and some sixty women have graduated
from her classes, passing successful examina-
tions under the leading physicians. The Dr.
is very popular, especially among her patients,
for her beautiful sympathetic bearing consoles
the suffering one, while her great self-control
and dignity gives one the most perfect confi-
dence in her ability. Mrs. Ellis Shipp has re-
fined and literary tastes, and she occasionally
rests her busy mind by revelling in the
pleasures of the Muses, and the EXPONENT
sometimes receives a beautiful gift from her
pen. Her poems are always pretty, and cause
one to wish she had more time for cultivating
her poetic talent. Dr. Ellis is at present
engaged, aside from her practice and classes, in
publishing a medical journal, in connection
with Dr. Maggie Shipp, the only medical
journal in Utah, and so, of course, what time 
she has for literary work is at present employed
on her own paper. The practice of medicine
is much the same to one as another, and it is
difficult to narrate the different physicians'
work without constant repetitions, for our lady


[Column 1]

physicans have mostly been similarly situated,
have alike seen the great field awaiting them,
and have been charming, intellectual women,
thirsting for more knowledge, and with minds
not only ready for science, but eager to grasp
every opportunity for it.
	T. W. Higginson says: "Women peculiarly
need science, since their natural bent is sup-
posed to be a little the other way." This may
be, generally speaking, true, but our third lady
graduate in medicine is an exception; her
natural bent always seemed to be towards
science—Mattie Paul Hughes—a bright, beau-
tiful, attractive girl, whose society was eagerly
sought, on account of her intellectual qualities,
her wit and her pleasant bearing.
	Miss Hughes was naturally a leader among
her friends, possessed of strong and good
opinions and an independent nature. She be-
gan when quite a child to earn her own
money, commencing early at type setting, in
which work she rapidly became proficient.
The day taken up in work, gave her little
time for study and much less for pleasure, but,
too ambitious to idle away an hour of time,
she spent all the spare moments in hard study.
Miss Hughes took a course in chemistry at the
Deseret University, and studied obstetrics and
medicine under Dr. Pratt, in the meantime
depriving herself of many pleasures and
fancies girls of her age so much enjoy, and
saving her earnings for furthering her advance-
ment in medicine.
	In 1878 Miss Hughes left her home and
entered the Michigan University at Ann
Arbor, where, after two years, she graduated
as an M. D During her vacations at Ann
Arbor, she practised her profession, thus earning
means to attend the State University of Penn-
sylvania, and in two years graduated there-
from as a Bachelor of Science, the only
woman in the graduating class. She also
graduated with honors from the National
School of Elocution and Oratory in Philadel-
phia, and spent much time in preparing her-
self for literary work and lecturing.
	Miss Hughes for some time very satisfactor-
ily held the position of Resident Physician at
the Deseret Hospital, and has always been held
in high regard among the medical fraternity.
Her career has been onward and upward almost
without a halt. Full of ambition, she found
no obstacle, for her fearlessness and self-mastery
would not allow her to hesitate, and her rapid
progress has been mostly due to her great
strength of character, which carried her
through every difficulty on to victory. Miss
Hughes now, aside from her practice, enjoys
the position of Lady Instructress at the Salt
Lake Stake Academy, a position she is sure to
fill with the utmost grace.
	Among the bravest of our women doctors,
those who have fought a battle all their lives
against adverse circumstances, and now in the
glories of science finds rest and pleasure, must
be mentioned Dr. Elvira S. Barney. Her life
is so full of daring, enduring, suffering, help-
ing,  working chapters, that in this brief paper
we dare scarcely glance back over the interest-
ing pages, and as we have before mentioned
this lady among the educators and missionaries,
must here only relate some of her medical ex-
periences.
	It was rather late that she chose the profes-
sion of medicine, but in it she has been very
successful nevertheless. After some few years
spent in self-instruction in chemistry and
medicine, and also pursuing a course of
chemistry in the Deseret University in this
city, Mrs. Barney decided to go to the East to
further promote her studies, and there entered
first the University at Ann Arbor, and subse-
quently other colleges, in Wisconsin and Penn-
sylvania, returning home in 1883, ready to
enter upon her practice. One of the most un-
selfish and philanthropic acts of her life was, 

[Column 2]

when shortly after her return home, full of zeal
to do good, she fitted up her large house for
lady boarders, and invited all who desired to
come to a shelter under her roof, where she
would give gratuitous preparatory instruction
for one year, hoping many young women 
would take advantage of this opportunity, and
thus begin a life of usefulness.
	There have been many other women who
have taken delight in the pursuit of medical
science, and one of the most popular and
efficient practitioners is Dr. Margaret C. Shipp.
She went East to Philadelphia to the Woman's
Medical College of Penn. in the fall of 1875.
Returning home during vacation, she remained
some time, then returned, and graduated in the
spring of 1882, and has ever since enjoyed a large
practice; has lectured in nearly every settlement
in this Territory; also taught classes in obstet-
rics, having qualified nearly forty ladies to act
as skillfull nurses and competent obstetricians.
Dr. Maggie C. Shipp has a classical
head and face, and possesses very rare
qualities of heart and mind, and with a
sincere love for her chosen profession, must
necessarily meet with great success. She is
socially a charming lady, deep religious con-
victions and a very magnetic nature, one
naturally feels drawn towards her, and her
patients almost feel for her the love and confi-
dence that a child holds in its mother.
	Necessity, positions of dependence, unhappy
homes and such things, sometimes urge child-
ren forth in the world to seek a livlihood and
independence, but it seldom occurs  that those
raised in the lap of luxury, with willing and
loving parents and friends always ready to
shower the pleasures and accomplishments,
that only wealth can buy, upon them, rush
forth from the luxurious home to battle and
struggle with a difficult science, yet Utah
boasts at least three such rash (?) maidens, and
now counts them among the medical fraternity
successful in their professions as they are
beautiful and charming in their appearance—
Miss Emma Atkin, the Misses Belle and Justina
Anderson, The former began her medical
studies under Dr. Pratt, and graduated from
the Philadelphia College. Since her return
home she has found a large practice in Juab
County, feeling that Salt Lake was crowded
with physicians, and she could be of more use
in an outer settlement; but her practice is not
confined to the one county; so proficient has
she proven to be in her profession, that she is
sent for from distant settlements. Strange, in-
deed, does it seem to see a lady so young travel-
ing hither and thither in all sorts of weather
and all sorts of conveyances, with her cases of
instruments and medicine, striving to aid and
relieve the suffering. So youthful, with her
frank, happy smile and guileless ways, did Miss
Atkin appear when she began her medical
career, that she seemed indeed, a child.
	The Misses Anderson, daughters of a most
learned physician, early began the study of
Latin under their father's instruction, and as-
sisted him some in his laboratory and his chemi-
cal operations. They found the greatest
delight in their father's study, and as children
at play learned more than many do at hard
study. The older, Miss Belle, soon after her
graduating from Ann Arbor, began practice
for herself at home, and has not only built up
a practice of importance, but has greatly assisted
her father, whose health is very poor. Miss
Justina was one year at Wellesley College,
where she took a literary course of study,
after which she attended the Michigan Univer-
sity, and emerged therefrom a full-fledged M.
D. Her future bids fair to be very bright,
and she is likely to become as successful and
as popular as her sister.
	There are many lady graduates from the
classes of the Drs. Pratt and Shipp who have

[Column 3]

extensive practice in the outer settlements, and
who are preparing to take a further course in
some eastern college. Among these we will men-
tion only one, Mrs. Mary E. Vanschoonhoven,
who is about ready to enter college. She has
been very industrious in her studies, and has,
even without a diploma, gained a large practice.
Her knowledge of medicines is very good, as
she was for some time dispensary clerk in the
Deseret Hospital. We have mentioned quite
an army of medical women, and still have,
doubtless, omitted some just as proficient, just
as successful, but our endeavor has been to
bring forth those women who, if not born in
Utah, have spent the greater part of their lives
here.
	They all are leading women in the com-
munity, and stand high in the regard of the
people. Their lives are devoted to a great
and holy work. Where they enter none others
can; they behold that happiest moment in
woman's life, when the agonizing pain is lost,
in the joy of a child just given; they enter the
darkened chamber, where the raging fever
claims the mind and aims to seize the body of
its victim, and they contend and fight this
dreadful foe, and by their skill see a mind re-
stored, a body saved; they are found when sud-
den accidents befall one, replacing the disjointed,
broken bones, and giving such happiness to
the afflicted, as only one can give who restores
or mends the body. Their work is noble and
sublime, and must for these very reasons give
them happiness and pleasure. Success and
glory attend you—women doctors.
	In other of the higher professions the women
of Utah have little representation. In law
there is, I believe, only one who ever was ad-
mitted to the bar—Miss Georgie Snow—and
she never practiced very extensively, spending
most of her time aiding her father in his work
—himself a lawyer. In Art and Music there
are scores of young women among us, who
have shown great ability and talent, but they
confine their work mostly to the ornamenting
of their own homes and the entertainment of
their friends, and as yet none of them have
chosen the work which so delights them, as a
profession.
	Utah boasts of her fair fields, her beautiful
gardens, her magnificent scenery, her generous
climate, her brave men and her many and
bright children; let her boast of her women,
too, for have we not here made a fair compari-
son of woman's work in Utah with woman's
work so praised at the National Council, which
is yet ringing through the land? Can any one
sister State out-rival us in woman's work?
	It seems to be the aim among the people of
Utah to advance womankind beyond the ordin-
ary paths, and cause her to become more inde-
pendent, more self-assisting, more progressive.
	Addison says:
	"I have often thought there has not been
sufficient pains taken in finding out proper em-
ployment and diversions for the fair ones. Their
amusements seem contrived for them, rather
as they are women than as they are reasonable
creatures, and are more adapted to the sex
than to the species. The toilet is their great
scene of business.	*	*	*	Their
more serious occupations are sewing and em-
broidery, and their greatest drudgery the pre-
paration of jellies and sweetmeats.
	"This, I say, is the state of ordinary woemn;
though I know there are multitudes of those
of a more elevated life and conversation, that
move in an exalted sphere of knowledge and
virtue, that join all the beauties of the mind
to the ornaments of dress, and inspire a kind
of awe and respect, as well as love."	*	*
	We claim the latter paragraph, Addison's
exception, to be the character of the women of
Utah.
		ANNIE W. CANNON.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FROM HOME.

I've been wishing to see mother's garden,
	With a wish that was almost a prayer,
And to see the dear face that there hovers,
	That to me is so loved and so fair,
So to-day, when she sent me "a posie"
	Of the flowers I love so well,
It seemed 'twere sent from heaven
	To break my heart from the spell
That was weaving itself around me
	With a sombreness, chill and gloom-
They were faded and almost scentless,
	But they brought  a message from home!

We cannot always live with the flowers,
	Nor be sheltered within the home nest;
We're oft tempted by Love's allurements,
	And 'tis often stern Duty's behest.
But there's times when the heart grows aweary,
	And when duty seems almost a thrall,
It is then we turn with longing
	To the most loved place of all.

Would that every tried heart now in exile
	Could be cheered to-day as mine
With a token of love from loved ones
	That would give such love divine.
But they cannot, so God grant that blossoms
	Wherever they dwell may bloom,
And to comfort, cheer and bless them,
	Be ladened with "dear home" perfume.
		E. T.
June 15th, 1888


THE CROSS OF LIGHT.

One summer eve, as I sat musing
	In the shade, at close of day.
My wandering thoughts, without my choosing,
	Seemed to woe my soul away
To the early days of childhood,
When I roamed by stream and darkwood,
Joyous as the day is long,
Mocking oft the wild-bird's song.

Half awake, yet partly dreaming,
	Shadowy spectres rose to view,
As upon a mirror gleaming,
	Seemed to pass me in review
All my life its many phases
All its tangles, and its mazes,
All its struggles after good,
All its wildness unsubdued.

Sometimes strong, sometimes prevailing
	In the battle field of life,
Often beaten back, and failing,
	Ignobly falling in the strife,
Still the shadow I pursued,
	Missing the substantial good;
Falling, yielding, struggling, rising,
	Almost lost in life's deep flood.

What was bare and false, despising,
	Loving what was pure and good:
Yet in my heart there lurks a treason,
Sojourns there against my reason,
To drive my better self away,
And give my passions all their sway.
"Father, most merciful, in heaven,"
	Prayed I in my soul's great pain,
"Shall this life which Thou hast given
	After all be lived in vain?
Must its hopes and its aspirings,
All its longing and desirings,
All its searching after light,
Be counted nothing in Thy sight?"

Then in the air there came a clashing,
	Like sweet bells at eventide,
While the slanting sunbeams flashing
	Lighted up the mountain's side,
And formed upon its summit hoary
A cross of light and golden glory,
Till beams of light and rush of sound
Filled all the throbbing space around.

Then o'er my spirit stole a feeling
	Which soothed me with its holy


Like when on wounded flesh, with healing,
	Are poured sweet drops of precious balm.
"Then," said I, "as from morn to even
Moves the sun through cloudless heaven,
Oh, may my chequered life, when past,
Rest safely on the cross at last."
		M. A. YOULTON GREENHALGH.
Meadow, August 13, 1888.


[Column 1]

HAND-CART SPEECH.

BY BETSEY SMITH GOODWIN.

	How well I remember when mother said:
"Girls, let us try and get to the valley next
season with the hand-carts. I have got a letter
from your brother Robert; he has worked his
passage as cook over the sea, he has driven a
team across the plains. and has arrived safe in
Salt Lake City; he bids us exert ourselves to
emigrate next year. He says he will pray
while we work." We thought he had the
easiest job. Well, we worked at our looms by
day and our fancy work by night, and on
Saturday we sold the proceeds. God blest us
with health and labor; He softened the hearts
of our employers, and in many ways we could
see and realize. that God helps those who help
themselves. We earned and saved enough in
six months to pay our passage across the sea,
and on the 2nd day of May, in the beautiful
month of May, 1856, we left the shores of
Great Britain, our beloved native land.
	After five weeks sailing, sea sickness and
stormy weather, we landed in New York, thence
to Iowa by rail; there we camped six weeks,
waiting for the hand carts to be completed, and
it was the first week in August ere we rolled
out of Iowa to cross the dreary plains for our
home with the Saints in Utah. My little
brother used to travel twenty and twenty-four
miles in a day. We soon got used to travel,
and while fair weather and full rations lasted
we were all right. We traveled five weeks,
never stopping for Sunday; then we were in the
buffalo country; our cattle that hauled the pro-
vision wagons, and the cows were stampeded,
and we camped there five days trying to find
the cattle; most of them were never found; our
captain then thought we had done wrong in not
stopping to worship on Sunday. After that we
kept the Sabbath day of rest for all.
	Each cart had to its load of luggage one
 hundred pounds of flour, on account of our
loss of cattle, now we were, in September, on
half rations and cold weather. But we never
forgot to sing, "Come, come, ye Saints, no toil
nor labor fear." With great zeal and fervor,
many fell by the way, hoping to rise in the
First Resurrection of the Just. God grant it!
I will not dwell on the hardships we endured
with hunger and cold, but I like to tell how
many a storm raged to the right and to the
left of us, and did not molest us. One
circumstance I remember very clearly; my
mother was taken very sick with cramp
cholera, a very fatal trouble then; we  all felt
bad about mother. I remember thinking,
"Others are dying, and mother may die, and
what a dark world it will be without mother,"
and as I gathered the dry sage to make a fire,
I was crying. Mother met me and asked,
"What is the matter?" I told her how bad I
felt. She said: "Do not feel like that, but
pray for me; you and all the rest, and we will
get through. I have just been asking God to
spare our lives, so none of us will  be left  on the
way; and no matter what trials we have when
we get to the valley, I shall never murmur or
complain." God heard us, and I can say she
kept her word. We lived, and are living yet.
One more incident I will relate: One even-
ing we camped near a marshy meadow, which
abounded in springs and poison parsnips; every
one was elated; we had something good to eat
Alexander Burt was among the first to find

[Column 2]

them; he came to our camp-fire and commenced
to unload. Mother said: "Brother Burt, what
have you got?" "They are parsnips, Sister
Smith, a sort of white carrot; put on the pot
and let us have a good mess." "I will do that,"
said mother, and we cooked and ate our fill of
poison parsnips. I confess we felt like we had
eaten rocks, so heavy they were, and not only
us, but the whole camp ate of them. Our
captain arrived late at camp that night, and
when he found out what we had been eating,
he groaned aloud, and cried, "Put them down,
each one contains enough poison to kill an ox."
We were glad we had eaten ours, for we would
not have dared to eat any after that; he said it
would be one of the providences of the Al-
mighty if we were not all dead by morning.
We did not realize the truth of his words until
next morning one brother died; we supposed he
had eaten of them after he knew better. Now
we had one quarter of a pound of flour a day,
with neither salt or soda; some could hardly
wait to cook it. It was October, stormy and
cold. Soon the flour was all gone. Then
there were crackers for two days; then the
blessed boys of Utah met us with provisions.
They gathered our wood and made our camp
fires, and let us ride in their wagons; they found
time to do a little sparking, also, and many a
noble son and daughter can say, "My mother
was a hand-cart girl."
	Three miles this side of Green River, as I
was walking ahead of the the carts, leading my
little brother, encouraging him along with a
story of what we would get when we came to
the valley; he said: "Oh, Betsy, I wish when
we get to that creek we would meet Bob."
"Well, come along, may be we will." and when
we got to the top of the bank, we looked down
and saw a team with only one yoke of cattle
on; we had never seen the like before, so we
waited on the top until they would pass, and it
was our brother; he stared at us, and when he
halloed we knew his voice. He jumped off and
brought Mary Jane and Euphemia in his arms;
they had come up with the cart while little
Alex and I waited on the bank. How we wept
for joy. The cart was tied behind the wagon;
little Alex climbed in the wagon, as happy as a
king's son, instead of being a poor tired child.
The next question was, "Where is mother and 
Mary?" "They are behind somewhere, you
will find them by the road." Mother was still
sick, and when she stopped to rest, she had to
lie down, she could not sit up; some had died
that way; they would go to sleep like a tired
child and never wake up. Mary was afraid
mother would, and tried to arouse her by tell-
ing her there was a team coming with only one
yoke of cattle on. "Well, never mind; Mary,
don't bother me." "Well, mother, the man is
running this way; mother, it surely is Robert!"
"Oh, no, Mary, that would be too good to be
true." Well, she was soon convinced with tears
and kisses; he helped her in the wagon; then
she said, "I could not be more thankful to get
into the kingdom of heaven than I am to get
in this wagon."
	Then explanations followed. He told how
he had been sick with the mountain fever; how
he had got our letter saying we were coming,
and as soon as he could walk, he prepared to
come and meet us; he got cattle from one,
wagon and cover from another, provisions from
others. So we proved, "God helps those who
help themselves."
	Thurber, July 24, 1888.


The will of a French advocate contains the
following bequest: "I give 100,000 francs to
the local madhouse. I got this money out of
those who passed their lives in litigation; in
bequeathing it for the use of other lunatics I
only make a restitution."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms;
one copy one year, $2.00, one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah as 
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	SEPTEMBER 1, 1888.


EDITORIAL NOTE.

	It would, perhaps, not be amiss to state that the
remarks made by Elder F. D. Richards concern-
ing the Relief Society, at the Memorial Meeting
held in the Ogden Tabernacle on the 19th of July,
1888, were predicated upon the sermon of the
Prophet Joseph, given at a meeting of the Relief
Society in Nauvoo, April 28, 1842, and published
in the "Sermons and Writings of the Prophet
Joseph." Republished lately in the Utah Journal
at Logan, April 14th, 1888, and in the Deseret
Evening News of Saturday, July 28 (on its fly
leaf); also in the Semi-Weekly and Weekly News 
following; in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT of August 
15 and September 1, 1884, and in the "Contribu-
tor" August, 1882. The sisters who have any of 
these papers by them can easily refer to them, and
it would be well to reperuse them, as they contain
so much that is of importance to know. In the 
sixth paragraph President Smith said: "No matter 
who believeth, these signs, such as healing the 
sick, casting out devils, etc., should follow all
that believe, whether male or female. He asked
the Society if they could not see, by this sweeping 
promise, that wherein they are ordained, it is the
privilege of those set apart to adminisier in that
authority which is conferred upon them, and if
the sisters should have faith to heal the sick, let
all hold their tongues, and let everything roll on."


[Column 1]
	MEMORIAL ANNIVERSARY.

REPORT OF THE RELIEF SOICETY MEETING
	HELD IN THE OGDEN TABERNACLE, JULY 
	19TH, 1888, IN COMMEMORATION OF THE
	LAST PUBLIC VISIT AND INSTRUCTIONS OF
	PRESIDENT BRIGHAM YOUNG, ON INVITA-
	TION OF PRESIDENT JANE S. RICHARDS, TO
	 THE RELIEF SOCIETY AND YOUNG LADIES'
	IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATIONS OF THE
	WEBER STAKE OF ZION, JUST ELEVEN
	YEARS AGO THE 19TH INST.

	(REPORTED BY JOHN M WHITTAKER.)

			[Continued.]
	Sister Elmina S. Taylor, Territorial President
of Y. L. M. I. A., said:
	In standing before you, I ask an interest in your
faith and prayers, that I may have strength of
 voice to enable you to hear the few remarks I
may make.  While I have been sitting here to-day,
I have had very peculiar feelings.  The last time
I was upon this stand, we had our beloved sister,
Eliza R. Snow Smith, with us. To-day I have
felt that not only her spirit was here listening,
prompting and influencing us, but that the spirit of
our beloved Prophet, Brigham Young, was here.
It is a proud day for this Stake of Zion. I feel

[Column 2]
thankful that God, our Heavenly Father, spared
Sister Richards to live to this time, and has in-
spired her to celebrate this anniversary; for to us,
the sisters of Zion, this is a great day—to think
that we have been organized into Stakes in the 
capacity that we have in order that the work may 
be more completely carried on, and in order that
there may be a nucleus around which other Stakes
may cluster, and one who shall oversee the inter-
ests of that Stake in the capacity of a President.
This is another of the institutions that God in-
spired each great and good man, Brigham Young,
to organize, and adds to that perfect system and 
organization in this Church. It is great and beau-
tiful, complete in all its departments.  Can you
look around you, upon the face of the whole earth,
and find another such institution, where everything
works in harmony—where we have a head that
can guide and direct all the affairs of the 
Church, and from the head we follow down and
see how perfectly everything is organized. There
need no one clash with the interests of another,
but all are working in their respective spheres;
there is harmony, there is order, and this is the
greatest work that ever was set to be accomplished,
and is to be accomplished through this order and 
organization. I bear my testimony of its divinity.
I know there is no other source through which 
this perfect order and system could come, than
the revelation of Almighty God. I believe
they have, that is the Relief Soceity and the
Y. L. M. I. A., been revealed of God; and I feel
that we, as the women of Zion, have been blessed
above all other women upon the face of the earth.
And it is with these blessings that follows the re-
sponsibilities.  We should be models—women
that the whole world might pattern after for purity,
virtue, integrity and faithfulness in keeping the
commandments of God. For God has indeed
blessed us and exalted us, as women in His crea-
tion. We have our own position. We are unlike
the rest of the world asking for our rights. We
have them given to us of God, the Eternal Father.
And we have our own position marked out for us;
and, my sisters, I know that every true woman
desires to keep her position. We know that God 
created man as our head. We wish to honor him
in that position.  But we have our rights and
privileges, and positions of trust, and we have re-
sponsibilities as great as any of our brethren. As
has been said this morning, there is no greater re-
sponsibility in humanity than rests upon mothers;
and our daughters have responsibilities also.
That is the purpose of the Young Ladies meet-
ings, to prepare them for the great future which
they are expected to occupy.  The kingdom is
growing, notwithstanding that our enemies are
doing all they can against us, still the work is 
rolling on; and we, as sisters of the Relief Society,
and members of the Y. L. M. I. A. throughout
Zion, we have our part to perform; and it is no
light matter we have to perform. We have an
influence, as a people; and the women have an in-
fluence that is felt for good; and the President of
our Stake has said, he is proud of the women
who have stood up under trials and persecutions,
and have maintained their position and have given
their all and been firm and faithful at all times. I
heard one of the Apostles say that he did not
know any of the sisters who had turned their
backs upon the principles God had established—
that they preferred to go to prison, rather than
betray their husbands and deny that which had
been entrusted to them. 
	I know among the young daughters of Zion
there are many noble spirits, who are preparing
themselves for the great and mighty work of the
future. They are preparing themselves for wives 
and mothers, for the highest glory of woman is to
be a mother. They are preparing themselves and
educating themselves for their great mission in
the principles of the Gospel; but not only this:
[-]hey are acquiring an education in other depart-

[Column 3]
ments, and we shall see them become the brightest
and most polished shafts in the world of women
and among the daughters of Eve.
	May God bless and help us to stand in our
places, magnify our calling before Him. And if
we desire to do this, I believe He will inspire us
and assist us to walk in that path He has pointed 
out, that the seeds we sow may germinate and
spring up to become useful in assisting to roll off
the kingdom of God, and that through life and 
death we may be faithful, and at last earn an ex-
altation in the celestial kingdom of our God,
which I desire in the name of the Lord Jesus
Christ. Amen.
	Elder Samuel W. Richards then bore a power-
ful testimony of the truths which had been uttered
and of the great Latter-day work. He felt greatly
honored to have an invitation, and was gratified
to be present on so auspicious an occasion. He
recognized this occasion as of great import to the
sisters of Zion, and that it was a day long to be
remembered by those who were present. He
thought the question arose as to whether each one
was fulfilling the design of their great creation, in
struggling for the maintenance of virtue, peace 
and righteous works.
	Those who had known President Young, knew
him to be a man of superior intelligence, power
and mighty faith. Whatever he undertook to do,
he accomplished, and he has left a record that
will be read by millions yet unborn. To-day
his power and ability is unquestioned.  It is re-
cognized the wide world over, wherever his name
has been breathed.
	Elder R—— rejoiced at the progress of the
great Latter-day work; spoke in glowing words of 
his mission in England, when he was summoned 
before members of Parliament, where he then
bore his testimony to them in power.
	The speaker ever regarded, with a watchful eye,
the progress of this people and their mission so
great and vast. He earnestly invoked divine
blessings upon the ladies' societies and upon the
Church generally.
	Sister Herrick, of Weber County, said that she 
trusted the good instructions which had flowed so
freely to-day might be carried home to every
heart among the people of God, that the young
might sense their weighty obligations placed upon 
them at all times and improve the opportunities
that are presented. She loved to labor among
her sisters in doing good, and she trusted that 
what had been said might re[-]ound to the honor
 and glory of God. She felt to extend a welcome
hand to the visitors from Salt Lake, and trusted
the time would come when a reign of universal 
peace may be ushered in, and this people prepared
to enjoy the glories thereof.
	President F. D. Richards spoke as follows:
	Being called upon by the sisters to address you
for a short time this afternoon, I wish to introduce
my remarks by first saying, that Sister Herrick,
who has just addressed you, is the Stake Prest.
of the Y. L. M. I. A. for Weber County, which,
perhaps, I should have stated at the opening of
her remarks.  She, therefore, spoke in behalf of
the Young Ladies of this Stake.
	One day this week, it was my privilege to be in
company with our beloved President Woodruff,
and with some other of the brethren who are asso-
ciated with him in a state of obscurity, and who
do not make their appearance in public assemblies.
I made mention of this occasion, with an invita-
tion, if it had been reasonable and consistent for
them, to meet with us. And inasmuch as they
felt that they could not, he bid me express his
love and good wishes to the sisters of the Relief
Society and the Young Ladies' Associations, and
any and all who might be present who love the
work in which we are engaged, and said it would
be impossible to attend, though he would like
to have done so exceeding much. He referred to
a very interesting party he attended here some


[Column 1]
years ago, given on the anniversary of Sister
Eliza R. Snow Smith's birthday, which many of 
the Saints present, no doubt, remember.  He
thought it was the best sister's party he had ever
attended. 
	Our brethren, who are hidden from our society
for the present, are always solicitous and anxious
for the prosperity of the Church in all its various
departments; and they watch over every part of 
the work of which God has made them overseers, 
with the deepest solicitude, prayerfulness of heart 
and with earnestness for its prosperity. 
	I realize that I am addressing representative
ladies of the Weber Stake of Zion, presidents of 
the Relief Society and associations generally, and 
many others as well.  I always feel anxious when
I address my sisters to say something that shall
encourage them in their work; because they
naturally feel timid and backward and have a re-
luctance to assume public positions, or public
duties, because some think they are making them-
selves too officious in public, and that ladies have
no rights in public duties. 
	Some of the sisters feel intimidated in their
meetings when the brethren are present; while
others believe that if the brethren would attend
and give them counsel and encouragement, they
would be stronger and more able to launch out in 
the liberty of the spirit and discharge the duties
incumbent upon them with a consciousness and
heavenly assurance, that would result in the bless-
ings of God upon their labors.  It has been so 
from the beginning of this work that has been
laid upon the sisters; it has been looked upon by 
some of them as being something out of their line
and place.  Every now and again we hear men
speak tauntingly of the sisters and lightly of their
public duties instead of supporting and encourag-
ing them.  There are also some who look with
jealousy upon the moves of the sisters as though
they might come to possess some of the gifts, and
are afraid they will get away with some of the
blessings of the Gospel, which only men ought to 
possess.  That is the way some look upon woman
and her work.  They don't like to accord to them 
anything that will raise them up and make their
talents to shine forth as the daughters of Eve
and of Sarah.  But have feelings of envy and 
jealousy; and instead of dealing open handedly
with them, tell them to go forward and do all the
good they can, it seems as though they would like 
to keep them back and not let them do anything,
—more than is really necessary.
	I am sorry to see this feeling.  The brethren
should understand and see that in so doing
they are opposing themselves.  Inasmuch as the
sisters do not arrogate authority to themselves
I think the brethren, by hindering them, withhold
blessings from themselves; if they would work
with the sisters they would be more abundantly
blessed.  The Presidents and Bishops would
realize multiplied blessings upon their own heads. 
Is it not more honorable for a king to rule over a 
wealthy and noble race, than one reduced to 
poverty, ignorance and serfdom?  Is it not more
honorable to preside over a nation that is enlight-
ened, intelligent and enterprising?  Is it not much
more glorious and honorable to preside over
those who are full of faith, who are active in good
works, and who are filled with the power of God?
Certainly it is.  When the sisters have the spirit
of their work upon them, they will labor with an
honest zeal in the midst of their societies, and it 
adds blessings thereto.  There is no Bishop that
encourages and supports an institution of this
kind, but who realizes and must acknowledge that
these sisters in their different callings, lessen his
labors, make easy his calling and add to the effi-
ciency of his Stake or ward.  The Bishops
who do this will be blessed and are blessed at all
times. 
	When I arise to teach the sisters, I am benefit-
ting the teachers and the authorities of the Church

[Column 2]
in Zion.  I do not feel at any time to withhold
or be reluctant in instructing or speaking well of
them and their labors in the Church.  I know
that many are afraid to go ahead and do anything
without instructions, for fear they may do wrong. 
And they thus are prevented from doing many
things that would materially assist the cause, for
fear they may do wrong. 
	Sisters, do right.  Where you desire to launch
out and do right, do so, and God will sanctify your
labors to the good of your sisters, and also the
good of the brethren; and you will make your hus-
bands far more useful wives.  You will have more
obedient daughters, more dutiful children; child-
ren that are more affectionate, true, honorable, 
faithful, and who, in their turn, will make more
honorable husbands and more dutiful wives. 
	I wish to say to you this afternoon, sisters
of the Relief Society and of the Young Ladies' 
Associations, that while it is expected of you
that you will visit the sick, that you shall see to it
that none of the brethren and sisters suffer from 
poverty or for the want of the necessaries of life, 
while it is your duty and privilege to minister to 
each other and those around you, and even when 
life has departed, you are to look after them and
see that they have proper clothing and burial—I
say, while you have these duties continually
upon you, you have other privileges and rights,
which are known to us and the people in general. 
It is pleasing to hear the Bishops report to the
quarterly conferences the faithfulness of the
Relief Society, and the aid they have derived from
them, the relief they find by having them to call
upon them for aid, and the efficient manner in 
which they respond to every need. 
	The Relief Society of Weber Stake raised be-
tween $500 and $600, and gave it as a donation to 
help finish the Logan Temple—a nice little item, 
which the building committee acknowledged with
gratitude, and every name of those who donated
was written in the records of the Temple. 
	In looking over the lists, I find that there is
considerable over $500 donated by the Weber
societies towards finishing the Manti Temple. 
The donations from this Stake on the Manti
Records, cover eighty pages, and over forty lines
to a page, and has on each line the name of the
person and the amount paid. 
	Sisters, tell it to your children at home, that in 
these records is contained over $100, paid by the
little ones of the Primaries; and each boy or 
girl has their name written there, credited to a 
nickle, dime or quarter, as the case may be, and it 
shows who have contributed anything to assist in 
the completion of that beautiful building.  These
records will be placed in the Temple at Manti, 
and will be kept as a perpetual remembrance. 
	Besides this, the Relief Society of Weber
Stake, during the past six years, or there
about, since the Deseret Hospital was organ-
ized into an association, has contributed, as near
as I can recollect, something over one thousand
dollars to help maintain and conduct that chari-
table institution.  Some months ago we made ap-
plication to the Secretary to give us a statement of 
the number of cases, the kind of affliction, what
number got well, what number died, the amount
expended, the amount received, etc., etc., in order
that it may be known how it stands, what good it
has done, and the status of the association at the
present time, in order that it may receive the at-
tention and encouragement it should have. I 
have been told repeatedly what you have a right
to know, that Weber County has been second to 
none, or only one among the Stakes, who have
donated for its support.
	In all these lists there is contained in the re-
cords concerning the Manti Temple and other
things, no less than 3,400 names from this Stake
of Zion. 
	The sisters of the Relief Society at the present
time, feel very much the loss of their President

[Column 3]
Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith.  Sister Eliza having
passed away, after an illness of more than a year, 
during which she was unable to attend public
meetings.  Sister Zina D. Young, her successor, 
is absent for a short time, but is expected home
soon, when she will visit the different branches of 
the Society, attend to her duties and give advice, 
as Sister Eliza used to do. 
	This is a great work.  It is a vast auxiliary.  It
is one of those things spoken of in the Scriptures
as "helps" to the government of the kingdom of 
God.  Sisters, be diligent in all things, no matter
how the brethren may look upon you.  Your
organization is just as important as any other in 
the Church, outside of the priesthood.  It has
been instituted by the highest authority on earth
in this dispensation.  It was appointed and estab-
lished by the Prophet Joseph Smith, in Nauvoo. 
I am glad that there are some here to-day who
were there at that meeting, and who listened to 
the instructions of the Prophet of God. Sister
Eliza was Secretary at the time of the organiza-
tion.  Sister Emma Smith was the presiding
officer of that institution, and she was blessed
under the hands of Presidents Joseph Smith and
John Taylor, to expound the Scriptures and ad-
minister to the Saints in this holy office and presi-
dency. 
	I wish to make a few remarks concerning it and
its significance, as it appears to me, for the
encouragement of the sisters; and in doing so, I
shall refer to some of the sayings of the Prophet
Joseph in instituting it.  In April, 1842, 
he made an appointment with the Relief
Society in the city of Nauvoo.  He attended
that meeting and lectured to the sisters himself. 
There are several present here to-day, who were
there and heard him speak, as did also myself. 
Here are Presendia L. Kimball, Bathsheba W. 
Smith, Jane S. Richards, and if I could mention
them all, there would be quite a number here who
were members of that Society. 
	The Prophet Joseph treated upon the gifts and 
blessings of the priesthood to be enjoyed by all
those who believed, and also upon the character
of the work devolved upon its members.  And he
read, concerning the blessings which he wanted
them to understand, were theirs if they would live
for them.  He read a portion of the 16th chapter of 
St. Mark, where it says:  "Go ye into all the 
world and preach the Gospel to every creature. 
He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved; 
but he that believeth not shall be dammed. And
these signs shall follow them that believe:  In my
name shall they cast out devils; they shall speak
with new tongues; they shall take up serpents;
and if they drink any deadly thing, it shall not
hurt them; they shall lay hands on the sick and
they shall recover."
	He said, in relation to the females administer-
ing to the sick, that there could be no more wrong
in it, than in performing any other ordinance of 
the Church if the Lord gave His sanction by
healing the sick under the hands of the sisters. 
	I will read from the minutes which were taken
on that occasion by Sister Eliza:
	"He continued to read the chapter, and give in-
structions respecting the different offices, and the
necessity of every individual acting in the sphere
allotted him or her, and filling the several offices
to which they were appointed. 
	"He said the reason of these remarks being
made was, that some little foolish things were 
circulating in the society, against some sisters not
doing right in laying hands on the sick.  Said if
the people had common sympathies they would re-
joice that the sick could be healed; that the time
had not been before that these things could be in 
their proper order; that the Church is not fully
organized, in its proper order, and cannot be, until
the Temple is completed, where places will be 
provided for the administration of the ordinances
of the Priesthood."
	Elder Richards here remarked:


[Column 1]
	This was just before he commenced giving 
endowments, and was hastening the work of the
Temple to get ready for it; and he says, that "as
he had this opportunity, he was going to instruct
the ladies of this Society, and point out the way
for them to conduct themselves, that they might
act according to the will of God; that he did not
know that he should have many opportunities of
teaching them, as they were going to be left to
themselves; they would not long have him to in-
struct them; that the Church would not have his
instructions long, and the world would not be
troubled with him a great while, and would not
have his teachings.
	"He spoke of delivering the keys of the Priest-
hood to the Church, and said that the faithful
members of the Relief Society should receive them
in connection with their husbands, that Saints whose
integrity has been tried and proved faithful, might
know how to ask the Lord and receive an answer;
for according to his prayers, God had appointed 
him elsewhere.
	"He exhorted the sisters always to concentrate
their faith and prayers for, and place confidence
in their husbands, whom God had appointed for
them to honor, and in those faithful men whom
God has placed at the head of the Church to lead 
His people; that we should arm and sustain them
with our prayers; for the keys of the kingdom are
about to be given to them, that they may be able
to detect everything false; as well as to all the 
Elders who shall prove their integrity in due sea-
son.
	"President Smith then gave instruction respect-
ing the propriety of females administering to the 
sick by the prayer of faith, and laying on of hands, 
or the anointing with oil; and said it was accord-
ing to revelation that the sick should be nursed
with herbs and mild food, and not by the hand of
an enemy. Who are better qualified to administer
than our faithful and zealous sisters, whose hearts
are full of faith, tenderness, sympathy, and com-
passion? No one. Said he was never placed in
similar circumstances before, and never had given
the same instruction; and closed his instructions
by expressing his heartfelt satisfaction in improv-
ing this opportunity.
	"The Spirit of the Lord was poured out in a 
a very powerful manner, never to be forgotten by
those present on this interesting occasion."
	Elder Richards continuing said: I ask
any and everybody present who have received
their endowments, whether he be a brother
Apostle, Bishop, High Priest, Elder, or what-
ever office he may hold in the Church, "What
blessings did you receive, what ordinance, what
power, intelligence, sanctification or grace did you
receive that your wife did not partake of with you?"
I will answer, that there was one thing that 
our wives were not made special partakers of, and
that was the ordination to the various orders of
the priesthood which were conferred upon us.
Aside from that, our sisters share with us any and
all of the ordinances of the holy anointing, en-
dowments, sealings, sanctifications and blessings
that we have been made partakers of.
	Now, I ask you: Is it possible that we have the
holy priesthood and our wives have none of it? Do
you not see, by what I have read, that Joseph 
desired to confer these keys of power
upon them in connection with their
husbands? I hold that a faithful wife has certain
blessings, powers and rights, and is made par-
taker of certain gifts and blessings and promises
with her husband, which she cannot be deprived
of EXCEPT BY TRANSGRESSION of the holy order
of God. They shall enjoy what God said they
should. And these signs shall follow them if they
believe.
	Moses said, when some one told him that a cer-
tain man was prophesying  in the camp, and the 
people thought he had no right to do so, Moses
replied saying: "I would to God that all of the

[Column 2]
Lord's people were prophets." So I say: I wish
all the sisters were so faithful that they were heal-
ers of the sick, through the power of God. Then
would their children have a foundation to grow up
from their youth in the fear and admonition of the 
Lord and in the power of His might. Sister
Eliza R. Snow Smith learned some of these things
from the Prophet Joseph Smith; and as he was
the organizer of the Church of Christ, so she
went through the Territory organizing Relief So-
cieties, and did a wonderful work. She partook
of the power of her distinguished husband.
	Sisters, may the Lord bless you. Bishops, may
the Lord bless us all and give us the spirit of liber-
ality. The more we do for the sisters, the more 
they will do for us; and so may the Spirit of the
Lord bless us all with the feeling of liberality
to all, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ.
Amen.
				To be Continued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


DAUGHTER AND SISTER.
	There is nothing of which a mother is more
proud, than a good daughter.  An old proverb
says, and that truly, that "The son is son till
he is married, but the daughter is daughter
forever."  A good daughter is a bright light
and the life of every home;  all her interests
are centered in trying to make that home com-
fortable and pleasant for those she loves, being
under the gentle influence of a kind mother
she becomes the pride and ornament of her
hospitality, the lively companion in health, the
ever kind and loving nurse in times of sickness,
and the constant agent in those nameless, num-
berless acts of kindness which one chiefly cares
to have rendered because they are unpretend-
ing, but because they are all expressive proofs
of love.
	A daughter's first duty is to seek to do that
which will please and bring happiness to 
mother and all those who have her interest at
heart, and to shun all that would pain or dis-
please the peaceful influence that should per-
vade the happy fireside.  There are daughters
who give their mothers cares, labor and sorrow,
where they had a right to expect rest and re-
pose.
	As daughters of Latter-day Saints, born and 
reared under the everlasting covenant here in
Zion, and belonging to Improvement Associa-
tions, we should certainly learn our true
position as such, and bear in mind that next to
our Heavenly Father comes duty to the one
who is first to rejoice in our joy, and who truly
mourns when we are called upon to mourn.
The strongest proof of heartlessness and in-
gratitude young ladies can give is indifference
to a mother's comfort, happiness or sorrow.
The intercourse of sisters and brothers forms a
very important part in the happiness of home.
What a large and cherished place does a good
sister's love always hold in grateful remem-
brance of one who has been blessed with the
benefits of this relation, as she looks back to
the happy home of her childhood;  with what
profound security is confidence reposed in a
sister, and with that assurance that it will be
uprightly and considerately given, is her coun-
sel sought!  How many of us, when thrown in
temptation's way, stop to reflect what sister
would say, and let the holy influence of her
love check our evil thoughts and deeds.  Do
we comprehend the influence we can wield
over our brothers and sisters for good or bad,
if we exercise the same with a kindly feeling
and humble spirit, always seeking their pleasure
and careless of our own?  The most simple re-
quest of such a sister will keep the young
from doing that which they know to be wrong,
such as breaking the Sabbath day, and the
young men from chewing and drinking;  and
why?  Simply because they have respect and
affection for the one who made the request,

[column 2]
and their wishes become law.  A favor asked
by such will often be regarded as sacred, when
a more powerful appeal from other sources
would fall unheeded upon the heart.  We meet
many who are unfortunate in not having the
privilege of the association of brothers and
sisters, being called away to work, and all such
cheerfully respond to any behest made by those
who take any interest in them and their well-
being.
	Sisters', as well as brothers' characters, are
formed by the friends and companions they
choose to associate with while young.  There-
fore, it is of the utmost importance that we in-
terest ourselves in our brothers and sisters
while they are yet in their youth, by introduc-
ing them into good society, for good company
not only improves our manners, but also our
minds, and if we implant in their minds a de-
sire to associate with the honest and pure in 
heart, they will cultivate a respect for all that
is good, and above all, great self-respect, and
this will ever prove a safe-guard to keep them
from mingling with those who are low and de-
based.
	Let us ever keep in mind, that deportment,
honesty, caution and a desire to do right,
carried out in practice, are to human character
what truth, reverence and love are to religion.
					AGGIE CAMPBELL.


A PLEASANT TRIP.
				
	The twelfth day of June, calm and lovely,
as only June days can be, found two of the 
little army of missionary women among the
Saints, on the north bound train, enjoying the 
charming scenery of mountain and vale, lake
and river, fields and farms, orchards and thrifty
homes, fragrant rose bloom hedges and meadows
green, and the thousand attractions between
Salt Lake and Brigham City. 
	Amid the glow and glory of a famous Utah
sunset, we were driven up the beautiful, shady 
boulevard leading into the latter place. Even-
ing shades encircled us in the sweet hospitality
of Stake Prest. Minnie J. Snow, to whom our 
hearts instinctively went out with the precious 
sense of congenial friendship. Her home is 
such a haven of peace and rest, that morning 
found us refreshed and with courage somewhat 
renewed, to bear the responsibilities of the 
day, that loomed up like the tallest mountain
peak—as these were not of of our own seeking, 
having been called by the voice of God to His 
labors, we earnestly and humbly sought for 
grace to discharge each duty.  
	At 10 o'clock a.m., June 13th, the Y. L. M. 
I. A. Stake Conference convened in the Taber-
nacle. The stands and organ were most 
charmingly adorned with the queen of flowers
and her sisters of every hue, displaying the 
taste and refinement of the young ladies of the 
Box Elder Stake. A large audience of fresh, 
young, intelligent faces, like a flock of hungry 
lambs seeking the bread of life, was a beauti-
ful sight. The stands were occupied by the 
officers of the various associations, and the 
sweet singers of Zion, whose music was a de-
lightful feature. An excellent programme
throughout, the subjects of the various essays 
well chosen, and treated with such intelligence, 
that it was gratifying to know that they were 
the productions of our mountain girls. It is 
sometimes astonishing, even to those who know
their worth, to see the daughters of the Saints
stand forth, and with true eloquence discourse
upon the science of their religion, and other 
subjects necessary to the development, educa-
tion and culture of women. The duties of 
maiden, wife and mother, the care of home, 
rearing of children, the sciences, arts and pro-
fessions, all received some consideration.  
	At the afternoon session the house was full.  
Prest. Rudger Clawson and other brethren 
showed their appreciation of the sisters labors


by their presence, good counsel and words of
encouragement.  All the speeches were short 
and spirited.  The gift of tongues was exercised
by a young sister;  a sweet influence of peace
prevailed, and all felt a sacred nearness to the
fountain of all our blessings, and I think our
hearts could have found expression in the good
old hymn, "It is good to be a Saint of latter
days." 
	In the evening a hastily improvised "surprise
party," of about thirty-five young ladies
quietly ensconced itself in the parlor of Sister, 
Snow, for the purpose—as a young lady said in
a neat little speech—"To show our apprecia-
tion of the visit of the ladies from the Salt
Lake Stake, and to become better acquainted
socially."
	A sweeter reunion could not well be im-
agined.  The genuine affability, grace, wit and
wisdom indulged in, without effort, was truly
entertaining.  Two hours quickly sped, with
music, songs, recitations and social chat, when
the girls begged for another  meeting. Such
earnest entreaty could not be resisted, nor such
faith denied, and till after midnight we en-
joyed a sacred soul feast, such as only those
can know who are seeking first the kingdom of
God and its righteousness, and have chosen
that "better part" spoken of by our Savior, 
when the spiritual-minded Mary sat at His feet, 
eager for a knowledge of heavenly things.  In
prayer and praise all hearts blended;  the Spirit
of God was poured out mightily, all worldly
cares and pleasures were forgotten.  One sister
sang sweetly a song of Zion, whose power and
influence thrilled the soul with heavenly joy. 
Many were melted to tears, and testified that
they had never experienced such happiness
or before received a testimony of the Gospel. 
For a time we caught a glimpse of the charity
that "thinketh no evil," that pure love of Christ
which hides every defect, and makes one will-
ing to lay down his life for his brother and
sacrifice every earthly comfort to save a soul
from sin and bring him into the light, love and
peace, which only the Gospel can give. 
	Over this memorable midnight hour—the
wedding anniversaries of Prest. M. J. Snow
and one of the visitors—we shook hands
cordially;  congratulations and good wishes
were exchanged, and the Autobiograbhy of 
Apostle Lorenzo Snow, compiled by his 
talented sister, E. R. Snow Smith, was grace-
fully presented as a memento of the happy oc-
casion, while sincere hopes were expressed that
the day would come when the wedding day of
the plural wife could be celebrated with public 
approval and satisfaction to all. 
	Strawberries and cream was next in order—
a women's convention of three—a pleasant
chat over the events of the day, recalling a
ride through the lovely city of foliage and
flowers, with strawberries and cake in the
parlor of Sister Amy Madson, and as the town
clock tolled the "wee sma hours,"  we sank to
rest, trusting the result of our endeavors to 
One who overrules all things for the good of
those who seek and serve Him.
	According to pre-arrangement of the young
ladies of Willard we drove to that picturesque
little town the next day through a charming
stretch of rural scenery, towering above us a
mountain peak covered with eternal snow, cast
its shadow over fragrant clover fields, that al-
most touch the waves of Salt Lake.  One of
the best of dinners and a few sisters awaited 
us at the home of Sister Zundell. 
	A well filled meeting house at 2 p.m.  Among
the audience was a bevy of blooming girls
from Brigham, their appetites for the good
things of the Gospel sharpened by the feast of
the day previous.  Another time of rejoicing,
peace and improvement, when the power of
God was poured out in a refreshing shower;
then a hasty retreat to the capitol to attend an 
officers' meeting at five.
[column 2]
	Homeward bound the following day, carry-
ing with us the sweetest assurances of appre-
ciation ever known, and the knowledge that in
Box Elder Stake were many of the daughters
of Zion, who have indeed become "polished
after the similitude of a palace"—beaming
with beauty, charming, with innocent grace, 
and favored of God for their faith in His Gos-
pel, and their earnest endeavors to mould and
fashion their lives according to its require-
ments.  
	May the seed scattered by the wayside with
trembling hands yield a good harvest in the
rich soil of those innocent, faithful hearts. 
That our visit may be recorded as the starting
point to higher and nobler aspirations and
endeavors, is the wish of the highly favored
visitors. 
						M. AND L. F.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.

		HONOLULA, Oahu, July 29, 1888.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	A year has elapsed since last we wrote you
concerning our labors in this part of our 
Father's vineyard, but while our pens are
silent, our hands and minds are busily engaged
in striving to benefit those among whom we
labor; and although the result of our labors
may not be as preceptible as we would like, we
feel assured that we will not be condemned for 
idleness. Yet we are not weary in our efforts,
but find pleasure in trying to teach our dusky 
sisters the plan of usefulness and industry.
	Our labors during the last term were that of
teaching the necessity of hand-work and home
industry, and for the establishment of this pur-
pose we held a Fair at Laie, at the time of our 
April Conference, which was well attended.
	This being a ntu hou (new thing), and not 
thoroughly understood by the natives, there was
a greater exhibition of na mea kahiku (ancient
relics) than of hand-work, with the exception
of the work of a class of little girls from the 
Laie day school, whom Sister Beesley had been
teaching to do fancy work.
	But the beautiful quilts made by the sisters
of the different branches of the Society, were
admired by all who saw them, both for neat-
ness in work and novelty in design.  There
was also a nice variety of home-made fans,
straw hats, matting, Hawaiian kapa, or ancient
Hawaiian quilts, small grass houses, represent-
ing the home of the native in the past.  There 
were also a variety of lei's (necklaces), made 
from the pretty coa seeds and kakui nuts.  In
fact the most of their work was that to which
they were well accustomed.  Therefore, our 
labors at present are in teaching them all 
kinds of useful and ornamental hand-work,
that they may be able to beautify their homes
and persons with the work of their own hands;
as the Saints of God have been taught to do.
We find them quite deficient in this respect,
and as our efforts in the last six months were 
considered by our brethren a step in the right 
direction, we have been stimulated to continue,
and hope that our future efforts will tend to 
more directly benefit our native sisters than
they have previously done.
	Could our many readers of the EXPONENT
glance for a moment upon the home of the
native, I think they would agree with us in the 
necessity of instructing them in the many oc-
cupations of the housewife—how, by her good
management and skill, a home, though humble, 
may be made both neat and cleanly. The
house of the native is generally that of an un-
finished frame building; yet we occasionally 
see the ancient grass house occupied.  The in-
side has a home-made mat upon the floor,
made from the lau hala, or leaf of the puhala
tree, this extends half across the room, the
other half having four or five layers of finer

[column 2]
woven mat, which is occupied as a bed for the
family.
	The walls are not often stained wtth white-
wash, but usually have pictures from magazines
pasted firmly upon them, displaying anything 
but taste. The roof is often lined with cob-
webs, etc., the windows are without blinds or
curtains. Occasionally there will be a chair,
though not always, even though they be
supplied with necessary piece of furniture,
the inmates will be found seated upon the
floor, or taking it more easy, stretched out at
full length. Hospitable and kind as this peo-
ple are they are blind to the necessity of be-
ing self-sustaining and independent. What
they copy from the white people are generally 
the frivolous and wordly habits which are
detrimental to them, the essential ones they
look upon as impossible. 
	Hence our readers will see the great work
of usefulness to be done here in order to bene-
fit a fallen race of people and raise them to a 
standard of usefulness and industry. To this 
end we are laboring to honorably fulfil our
mission among the Hawaiian people.
					LIBBIE NOALL.


CORRESPONDENCE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The officers of the Relief Society and Prim-
ary Association of Millard Stake having re-
cently visited the several branch societies and
associations, desire to express our satisfaction
with the good results and earnest labors of our
sisters, and we are pleased to note the vast im-
provement of each association under the able
management of these respective officers.
	We met with a cordial welcome, and our
meetings were well attended, and though feeble
our efforts, God's Spirit was with us, and we
rejoiced to unite with so many of the pure in
heart, for many such do we find, who, through
sacrifice and humility, are learning the truth
and wisdom of God's ways, which none can
know except by His Spirit.
	The Primary Association at Oak Creek was 
organized, with Annie N. Anderson, President, 
and Caroline Duston and Libbie Finelson,
Counselors, there having been no permanent
organization since the death of our late Presi-
dent, Eliza Lyman.
	The anxious endeavors of our Primary
children elicit great praise, and truly exhibit
characteristics of the noble spirits of this dis-
pensation, and through their early obedience to
the Gospel, are manifesting a true and solid
foundation.
	The officers of the Stake are zealous in their
labors and desire to act well their part as co-
laborers in the great mission of the Latter-day
Saints.
							D. K. O.


THE FACTS IN WASHINGTON
			TERRITORY.

	The Daily Union of Walla Walla, Washing-
ton Territory, published an article by Rev. Mr.
McLean, of that city, in which he says:
	Most respectable women are opposed to
woman suffrage, and those who avail them-
selves of the franchise are not regarded as rep-
resentatives of the better class of women.
Naturally woman suffrage affords opportunities 
for sharp work on the part of the candidates.
	To the above imputation a direct insult to
the women of Walla Walla who voted at the 
last city or any other election, and a slur (to
say the least of it) on their intelligence, charac-
ters and judgment, which facts and demonstra-
tions do not substantiate.  The truth is, most 
of the respectable women of our city did avail
themselves of the franchise, and cast their


ballot for their choice of candidates at our last
city election, as shown by the poll books. And
a portion of those who had neglected to
register, were heard to say they regretted it
very much, and would have gladly exercised
the highest prerogative of the American citizen
upon that occasion.  A stranger would infer
from the reverend gentleman's remarks that
the majority of the female voters of this
city are disreputable women, when the very
reverse is true, and he knows it, if he is at all
posted.  As to respectability, I challange the 
reverend gentleman to a comparison of an
equal number of men who voted at the last
city election (ministers included) with the
same number of women, and see if the women
voters, on the whole, are not the more respect-
able and intelligent of the two classes, and 
representatives of our best citizens, both 
morally and intellectually.
	The appeal of Mr. Davis to the poll-books
will easily show whose statement is correct.
But outside of this the testimony is abundant
that more than nine-tenths of the women voted.
It can hardly be supposed that so large a frac-
tion of women were not respectable.—Ex.
							    L. S.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CHILDREN’S FAIR

	It is decided that a Fair will be held in this
city about the middle of September by the
Primary Associations of this Stake. The
officers of these Associations have talked this
matter over in their meetings, and it is sup-
posed that most, if not all of the articles pre-
pared, are ready to be forwarded for the exhibit.
Presidents of Primaries have been duly notified,
and we ardently hope that there will be a good
showing of the little people’s work, both boys
and girls. Needle work, such as plain sewing,
darning and mending, we have specially men-
tioned. We are anxious that the children
should have an opportunity for the proper dis-
play of their handiwork, and that every en-
couragement possible should be given to in-
duce them to excel in any branch or kind of
work they may undertake to do, whether sim-
ple or complicated. The same attention and
care will be given to the boys' as to the girls'.
The place for holding the fair has been decided
upon, and due notice given through the papers.
			ELLEN C. CLAWSON, Prest.
			CAMILLA C. COBB,
			LYDIA ANN WELLS,
						    Counselors.


RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT.	

To the Stake Presidents of the Relief Society:

	In order that there may be a full and com-
plete report, statistical and financial, of the
Relief Society, including all the several Stakes,
for the Semi annual Conference of the Church,
which will be held in October, the several
Stake Presidents of the Relief Society are
hereby notified to see that the Secretaries pre-
pare and forward a correct Stake report, and
direct to Dr. Romania B. Pratt, 206 n, Second 
West Street, Salt Lake City, not later than
the 15th of September.  
				E. B. WELLS, 
	Cor. Sec. Central Board of the Relief So-
ciety. 

			Y. L. M. I. A.
To the Stake Presidents of the Y. L. M. I. Asso-
	ciations.  

	As it is very desirable that a full report of
all the Societies be had for the General Confer-
ence of the Church, which convenes October
6th, will the presidents please see that the
Stake Secretaries forward their reports so that







  
	</e&t>


they may be received here not later than the
15th of September. Direct to Miss Mary E.
Cook, 323 East, Third South Street, SaIt Lake
City, Utah.
		ELMINA S. TAYLOR, President.

		PRIMARY ASSOCIATIONS.

To the Stake Presidents of the Primary Asso-
	ciations:

	It is very desirable that a full report of all
the Societies be had for the General Conference
of the Church, which convenes October 6th.
Will the presidents please see that the Stake
Secretaries forward their reports so they will be
received not later than the l5th of September?
Direct to Mrs. C. H. Clayton, P, O. Box 306,
Salt Lake City, Utah.
			LOUIE B. FELT, President.


TO THE PRIMARY ASSOCIATIONS.

	The Primary Fair will open about the 12th
inst., in the building adjoining Elias Morris’
place on South Temple Street.  All who have
articles for exhibition will please deliver them
not later than Monday, Sept. 10th, at the
building where the fair will be held.
	On Friday, Sept. 7, the officers of the Prim-
ary Associations in the Salt Lake Stake will
meet at Mrs. E. C. Clawson’s residence, No. 22
First East Street, at 2 p.m.  A full attendance
is requested.
	On Saturday, Sept. 15, the conference of the
Primary Associations will convene in the As-
sembly Hall. Meeting will be held at 10 a.m.
and 2 p.m.
	Please note the dates—Officers' meeting,
Friday, Sept. 7; delivery of articles for the
fair, Monday, Sept. 10; conference, Saturday,
Sept. 15.
		ELLEN C. CLAWSON, President.


As we want more goodness and less devilish-
ness put into the ballot-boxes on election days.
I do not know a better plan to gain that end
than that of letting the better half of humanity
have an opportunity to vote.—Geo. R. Scott.
	Mille. Matilda de Noureigas, daugher of the
late minister from Portugal, who has been for
three years a pupil of Mme. Viardot-Garcia,
in Paris, will give a concert in New York this
month.  She has a beautiful voice, and will
sail in a few weeks to meet engagements in
Europe.
	No reason can be shown why a woman's 
vote in the State should not be received with
as much respect as in the family.  A State is
but an association of families, and laws relate
to the rights and immunities which touch 
woman's most private and immediate wants
and dearest hopes.—Harriet Beecher Stowe.
	"Carmen Sylva," the queen of Roumania,
is having a "poet's chamber" built, wherein to
write her poems.  It is constructed of reeds,
surrounded by a high hedge of roses.  In the
niche of the hedge cages of singing birds are
hidden, and in one corner there is a fountain
of perfumed water.  In the middle of the
room are a mossy bank and a great block of
rock covered with moss and hewn in the form
of a writing-desk. Upon this moss-grown
stone the queen poetess will indite her verses.
The ground is covered with a thick, soft car-
pet of green turf, and a hammock is slung on
one side with golden cords.—Ex.


OBITUARY.

	DIED, in Kanab, on the 31st of May, 1888, Sister Sarah
Harmon Crosby.  Sister Crosby, or Aunt Sally, as she was
familiarly called, both by old and young, was born March


4th, 1808, in Garret County, Kentucky. She was married,
to her husband, William Crosby, in March, 1832, and was
baptized by Peter Haw in 1843. She went with her hus-
band to Nauvoo, where they both worked in the Temple;
they also contributed considerable of their means to the
Church at this time. She came to the valley in the second
company of pioneers. Went with her husband on a mis-
sion to California in the spring of 1851. Returned to Utah
in 1858, and from that time until her death, she has lived
on the frontiers of southern Utah. When the Relief So-
ciety was organized in Kanab, she was chosen President,
and continued in that position until old age prevented her
from performing its duties. She was the mother of two
sons, nine grandchildren and four great-grandchildren. She
was a woman of most amiable disposition and benevolent
qualities of heart, and, having been blessed with an
abundance of this world's goods in times past, she dis-
pensed of her bounties to the poor liberally and unostenta-
tiously.

		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Whereas, it has pleased the great Creator to take unto
Himself, after a long and useful life, our much loved sister,
Sarah H. Crosby, and,
	Whereas, it is fitting that she be held in honorable re-
membrance, therefore, be it
	Resolved, by the ladies' Relief Society of Kanab, That
while we mourn, not as those who have no hope, yet we
realize that in the death of Sister Crosby we have lost a 
dear friend, and her family a wise and loving counselor,
in fact we will all miss her loving counsels, her happy face
and cheery voice. God bless her for evermore! she has
gone to receive a crown she has so faithfully waited for.
	Resolved, That we extend our deepest sympathy to all
the members of her family.
	Resolved, That these Resolutions be put upon the records
of the Relief Society, and a copy thereof be sent to the
family of our sister, and to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
								M. C LITTLE,
			    In behalf of the Relief Society of Kanab.


R.K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY 
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of 
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.	 
VOL 17. 		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 15, 1888. 		No. 8.


TO LOUISE 
		    BY MAY SPENCER.
When thine eyes closed upon this world of care,
Closed to reopen on a scene more fair,
Sad hearts and breaking met and sorrowed there,
		Around thy bed, sweetheart. 
Still as an image graven out of stone,
White as a form of marble was thine own;
Sad voices whispered in a broken tone
		That thou wert dead, sweetheart.

Flowers are strewn upon thy lowly mound,
Tears are the dew that water all the ground,
Where thou art lying, far from sight and sound,
		In thy low bed, sweetheart.
But angel tones have whispered unto me,
Tho' thou hast vanished, where I cannot see,
Sad for our sadness, glad yet to be free,
		Thou art not dead, sweetheart.

And in the twilight I can dream I hear
Thy tender accents falling on my ear,
"Only my weary form is lying here,
		Here where you tread, sweetheart.
Turn from the mound where peacfully it lies,
I linger near and watch with loving eyes,
Tho' free from earth's worn garments and disguise, 
		I am not dead, sweetheart."
—Chicago Inter Ocean.


[For the Exponent.]
			SUNDERED.
	"What God has joined together, let no man put assun-
der."—Christian Marriage Service.

	No more, no more those welcome feet
	The pathway to my threshold beat;
	The joy his coming brought is o'er; 
	Those dear eyes light my home no more.

	He may not come; our cruel fate 	
	Pours out the bitter lees of hate;
	I'd fly to him with joy, but oh,
	For reason stern, I may not go!

	My willing feet, that fain would speed
	The way my yearning wishes lead,
	Are now compelled to tread the dust
	Not where they would but where they must.

	My eager hands, that fain would clasp
	His own in fond and fervent grasp,
	With patient labor strive to still 
	The trembling pains that through them thrill.

	My paling lips that fain would press
	Upon his brow a pure caress,
	May only breathe his name so low
	That none but God can hear or know.

	My eyes, that fain would scan his face,
	Delighting in each saintly grace,	
	Are now forbidden to behold,
	Save with a glance estranged and cold.

	Alas, that bonds of forged steel,
	Whose cold and heavy links I feel
	Enchaining me to duty grim,	
	Should also load and fetter him!

	Ah, well, my dear one, love is free,
	And from my true heart greeteth thee;
	And trust in God is still our own—
	We'll meet in prayer before His throne.
					LU DALTON.


[Column 1]
		INCIDENTS OF TRAVEL.

	In conversation with Prest. M. Isabella
Horne, of the Relief Society of this Stake,
since her return from abroad, we decided to 
make a few notes, that we thought would be of

[Column 2]
interest to our readers. In Mrs. Horne's rail-
way journey from Salt Lake City to New York
she met with quite a number of people who
were interested in Utah matters, the people,
the institutions, etc. Elder R. S. Horne, her
son, who accompanied her, also conversed with
several learned gentleman who desired infor-
mation upon the subject of Mormonism, and
who seemed pleased with whatever items were
imparted to them. The party, consisting of
several of the brethren and sisters, all had op-
portunities for conversation with strangers as
soon as it was known they were from Utah;
the time passed pleasantly, and, it is hoped, 
profitably, and that some good seed has been 
sown, at least in removing prejudice against 
the Latter-day Saints. In New York City
Mrs. Horne greatly enjoyed "seeing the sights,"
and visiting places of interest; she expresses
herself as particularly attracted by the Green-
wood Cemetery. 
	The party embarked on board the Circassia
of the Anchor line, bound for Glasglow, on the
19th of May. They had an excellent Captain,
by the name of Campbell, and in fact the same
might be said of all the officers on board the
steamer. The company also was very pleasant, 
and the people affable. There was but one
person who seemed to have any prejudice, and
he became quite friendly before the voyage 
was over. 
	A Methodist gentleman from South Carolina
requested the privilege of having a conversa-
tion with Mrs. Horne; he was an editor, and, 
no doubt, wanted a subject for editorial matter
or sketch of our people. He stated that he
had long desired to have an opportunity of
talking with some intelligent person, concern-
ing our people and principles. She explained
to him about the first principles of the Gospel
—faith, repentance, and baptism by immersion;
he thought immersion non-essential; the lady
quoted Scripture to prove her arguments, and
gave him a dissertation of the doctrines and
principles of the Latter-day Saints, none of
which he seemed able to refute successfully
from Biblical authority. The interview lasted
about an hour and a half, during which time 
Mrs. H. laid before the editor many important 
truths.
	The Rev. Alfred Anthony was the minister
of the steamer: he was on his way to Europe,
extending to study two years in Berlin. Mrs.
Horne says the Reverend gentleman was a very
able speaker and made excellent prayers. Upon
learning that Mrs. Horne was one of the 
pioneers of Utah, he came one day and seated
himself by her, and commenced a conversation;
first about settling the country; he had paid a
visit to Utah about six years ago, and said he
would like to come again and bring his wife
with him, upon which a gentleman jokingly
remarked, "Yes, be sure and take your wife."
The conversation naturally drifted into religious
channels, and the minister inquired were we
anything like the Roman Catholics, that we
had to have a Mediator, or could we approach
our Father in Heaven for ourselves. Mrs.
Horne of course answered, "Every one is at
liberty to seek our Father for himself or her-
self, through Jesus who shed His blood for us."
He then said, "Would any person joining your
Church have to be rebaptized, if the person
had been a member of some other church?"
Whereupon Mrs. Horne explained that every
one must be, as it was necessary that the cere-
mony of baptism be performed by one having 

[Column 3] 
authority, and come in through the door, in
accordance with the Scipture, "He that climb-
eth up any other way," etc. Mr. Anthony
then went on to say, "Supposing a man were
cast away upon an island, where there would
be no opportunity for baptism, how would it
be with him." The reply was given, "The
Lord would know the circumstances, and there
would be provision made," and so on. Mrs. 
H. referred him to the Savior's preaching to
the spirits in prison, and told him of the doc-
trine of the baptism for the dead, and said her
mission then was to gather up the genealogy
of her dead. Mr. A. then asked what she
thought of those of other churches who had
lived righteous lives, according to their under-
standing? Mrs. H. explained to him the
different degrees of glory, and that such people
would have more even than they anticipated, 
but it would be in accordance with their good
works and the purity of their motives. The
conversation continued for a long time, during
which Mrs. H. gave him the Articles of Faith,
and he said there was nothing there he could
not endorse. He spoke of the Book of Mor-
mon, its authenticity, etc. Mrs. H. cited him
to the account of the Tower of Babel, and the
confounding of languages and scattering of the
people, also the destruction of Jerusalem, and
that it was through this means that a remnant
came to this land, and the Book of Mormon is
their record hid away, to come forth in the
given time of the Lord. This distinguished
gentleman, with all his learning, knew nothing
of the way in which we understand the Scrip-
tures. 
	On the Sunday following this conversation, 
Mr. A. preached to the people, and in the
course of his sermon he made an illustration
like this: "Here we have the good ship Circas-
sia with a Captain and crew well manned, can-
not we trust ourselves in his hands, believing
he can guide the ship into port, and not dive
into the depths of the ocean after the mys-
teries?" Mrs. Horne says she felt that this
allusion was a thrust at her, but, she adds,  "He
forgot that we are told by our Savior to work
out our own salvation, and also, that it is given
to the Saints to know the mysteries of the
kingdom." 
	Hereafter we shall give other items of Mrs.
Horne's travels.


REFLECTIONS.

	This is Pioneer day, July 24, 1888.  Forty-
one years ago to-day, the pioneers entered
these valleys of the Great Salt Lake. This
was then a barren region.  They were religi-
ous pilgrims driven out from civilized society
because of their religious belief.  They were
weary wanderers, who through great faith in
God believing that they were doing His holy
will were enabled to bear all that they had to
pass through and felt that this was their place
to rest, and make homes and to worship God
according to the dictates of their consciences.
Having pure, undefiled faith that they were
doing that which God desired them to do; with
this faith they have accomplished a mighty
work and wonder through united efforts and
industry and the blessings of God, and have
made of this barren waste beautified cities and
towns.  They have taught their children the 
principles of their religion, which are faith in 
God and his Son Jesus Christ, and have told


them if they repent of their sins and are bap-
tized by immersion that God will forgive them
and that His Holy Spirit will lead them into
the ways of truth and righteousness. Also that
God had called Joseph Smith a prophet to es-
tablish his church upon the earth for the
last time, and that He had revealed His holy
will to this choice prophet of the latter days,
and together with the many plans and princi-
ples of salvation He had revealed the princi-
ples of celestial and plural marriage for some
wise purpose of his own, and that we lived in
one of the grandest nations in the world, where
God had inspired mighty men to establish
build and buy with precious blood the choicest
land on earth, a refuge for the oppressed, a
land of liberty, where people from every na-
tion would receive their rights; with this kind
of teaching and publicly preaching to the
world, thousands of beautiful and intelligent
children were born to the Latter-day Saints;
their fathers and mothers toiled early and late
that they might support their families. Noth-
ing, but faith in God has ever supported these
mothers and children through the trials that
these circumstances surrounding them called
them to pass through. They were human be-
ings, subject to the weaknesses of the human
race having their natural jealousies and selfish-
ness and various dispositions to control,in order
that that they might set good examples. Who
cannot at a glance comprehend that there
must have been strong motive power that in-
duced young women,pure minded,and virtuous,
to share their all with each other, to wait on
each other in sickness, to nurse each other’s
children and teach them to give the mothers
the honorable title of “Aunt,” and in some
cases to name their children for each other, to
teach these brothers and sisters that they
should love each other as one family. These
things look something like a sacrifice of hu-
man nature to acomplish.
	Yet such was the situation for many years
and this government stood by and looked on
and took no step to check it, until 1862. Then
this protective government passed a law
against polygamy, and prior to that had ap-
pointed Brigham Young governor of Utah
knowing him to be a practical polygamist. They
never even tried a single case for years to know
whether the law of 62 was valid or not. The
government, however, woke up to look at
slavery and concluded it was not right, that
it must be abolished, this brought on a mighty
war and many precious lives were sacrificed
many homes made desolate, many hearts made
sad, but the black man, woman and their chil-
dren were made glad. They were set free
with the law to protect each and every one.
They are called the “nations ward.” When
this war was settled they, these honorable men
in the Congress of the United States, turn
around and call polygamy the twin to slavery.
They begin to think that something must be
done to put this down. “It is not right; it is a
stain  on society; it is a loathsome ulcer; it
must be wiped out.
	Hon. George Q. Cannon was selected
and sent and sustained by Congress and was
known to be a practical polygamist, and
served there for several years as a respectable
and exemplary man, honorable in every action,
as every man in congress that formed his ac-
quaintance knows to be the truth. He had his
peculiar religious belief; society talked loudly
about this without knowing what they were
talking about. Meanwhile men and journal-
ists that were hungry for office, that were seek-
ing notoriety, that would rob their fellow men
for their ovn selfish gain, that saw that these
industrious people were becoming more wealthy
and thought if they could succeed in blacken-
ing their names in slandering their characters,
they might safely take away their inheritance
and possessions.  With this class of men and
[column 2]
women the people were deceived. Members of
Congress introduced plans and laws of differ-
ent kinds to conquer this white twin,and to cut
the loathsome ulcer from the body politic.
	As late as 1883, Senator Edmunds and his
co-workers sharpened their knives as the phy-
sicians to cut this ulcer that had been growing
for forty years and Congress had  stood by
and looked on and talked about it. Many
years ago it was only on the surface then if
they had the power to remove it, it could
have been removed with little danger; but no;
these protectors let it grow until it has taken a
deep hold to take it out, they will have to cut
the main arteries; they will have to sever the
cords of love stronger than death; they will
have to cut away the very fibers of the heart;
break up the homes of many families; rob
thousands of innocent children of their fathers,
one of their natural protectors; leave the home
that both father and mother have made, for if
the father stays there the mother must
leave; she that has toiled early and late to
keep things in order; she that has taken care in
health and in sickness; the mother that has
been ever true, ever diligent, ever careful that
the children might appear respectable and tidy;
that has practised economy in every way that
all might live; that has deprived herself of
many of the pleasures of life, thinking and
faithfully believing that she was doing the will
of her Father in heaven, acting upon religious
principles and with no desire to injure any per-
son; this mother discarded, yes, without a man-
tle of protection. Senator Edmunds is the
man that is willing to let his name go down to
posterity as the originator of this unjust law, 
that undertook to cut out the ulcer without any
healing ointment to take care of the wound
without any cords to tie the arteries or veins.
	But have you made any provision for wives
where they can still be permitted to take
care of their children and claim a lawful sup-
port? No, we fail to see any, if this is the white
twin that you have robbed and turned out with-
out a mantle to cover herself with; this is bad
in a free republic, but hardly enough. Sena-
tor Tucker combines to do a little more; he
proposes if these mothers of legitimate families,
that they have robbed of the title of wife should
ever become mothers again through the same
channel shall be confined in the prison for six
months, and her child be only illegitimate hav-
ing no claim or portion with the others, and
publish her as a fornicator. If this is what
society calls justice, if Senator Edmunds and
Tucker, and the signers of this unjust bill have
considered this all around and understand
what they have done for hundreds of virtuous
women and innocent children, if they have
carefully considered the responsibilties, then
woe be to them;the God that is their Father is our
Father, and is no respector of persons; we have
no fear that He will forsake us in the future,
for He has helped us in the past. If these pro-
tectors of human rights do not repent, these
will be the ones that will call for the rocks to
hide them from the presence of their Maker,
for the multitude of their sin is great if these
men have no religion expect to meet nothing but
the grave, should they be put there in a casket
of gold with all the honors that society can
heap upon them, they are but mortal men that
oppressed women and robbed children of their
birthright. We are thankful to say there are
men that have been stamped with bad names,
that are too honorable to take advantage of
that law; that have preferred the prison to for-
saking their families; that have chosen exile
and seclusion rather than to submit to injustice;
that prefer the underground train drawn by
oxen in the hope to meet justice hereafter, than
to mount the train that is run by injustice with
no mercy for its cargo.
						E. W. BROWN.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


REORGANIZATION.

DEAR EDITOR:
	With great pleasure I communicate to your
very interesting paper the following items from
Herriman:
	On the 12th of December, 1887, we were
visited by several of the brethren from differ-
ent wards.  In company with Apostle Heber
J. Grant, Prest. A. M. Cannon, Elder Taylor
and E. Morris, they held meeting that day.
During the time, they recommended the Relief
Society to be reorganized.
	We held another meeting on the 15th of
January, 1888, and elected the following offi-
eers:  Emma Jane Bodell; President; Sarah
Jane Butterfield and Emeline Butterfield,
Counselors; Nancy Jane Freeman, Secretary;
Hannah Stocking, Treasurer.  They were
blessed and set apart under the hands of Bishop
R. Dansie and Wm. C. Camp, who also made
some excellent remarks, and encouraged the
Sisters to be active in the duties devolving up-
on them in their high and holy calling. We
held our first meeting on the 2nd of February,
1888.
	Praying God to bless you in your labor of
love, I remain, with kindest regards,
		Your sister in the Gospel,
			NANCY JANE FREEMAN, Sec.


EXTRACT FROM AN ELDER'S JOUR-
			NAL.

Dramatic factors in the worship of the "beast."
	A. Imposing architectural structures and
appurtenances. Arts and sciences, mainly, pic-
tures, statuary and music. Brilliancy, shining
ornamentations, chandeliers and wax lights.
Dressing gorgeous colors and fantastic shapes.
Pagan pompous ceremonies, rites and formulas
of liturgy. All calculated for charming ef-
fects.
	B. Expressions of extreme veneration for
something unexplained. Sudden changes, and
surprising shiftings. Activity, keeping the
attention extremely expectant. Mystic masses, 
novel sounds, tinkling of bells and burning of
incenses. Acute expressions of agony, joy,
sorrow, vehemence, etc. All unexplained in
purpose, and mystifying in effect.
	C. Ambiguous worship, and enigmatical
devotion. Predominant effect, sensational
emotion. Soul cravings starved on mys-
ticisms. Intoto: a strong hold of delusion.
And all together, "Mystery Babylon."


The Scandinavian Woman’s Congress was
held in Copenhagen, Denmark, in July last—
the first fruits in Europe of the movement to
organize a Woman’s Congress in every large
city. The delegates assembled from Sweden,
Norway, Denmark, Finland, and Iceland, and
the attendance was about five hundred. The
meeting lasted three days, and the questions
discussed were, Woman Suffrage, Peace, Tem-
perance and Co-education. The status of
suffrage in the different countries was shown to
be as follows: In Denmark, municipal suffrage
was proposed to the Diet, but refused, and a
petition by Danish women will be sent in at
the next meeting; in Norway, the subject has
been laid before the Storthing, but not yet
carried, although there “exists an appreciation
of the question’s weight and importance; and
things are so luckily placed that with munici-
pal suffrage will follow political;" in Sweden
the women have municipal suffrage; in Finland,
they have municipal suffrage, and also the
right to sit on school boards and act as poor-
law guardians; and in Iceland, they have both
municipal and political suffrage, but are not
eligible to public office, while the taxes, which
are the condition of suffrage, are so heavy that
few women can take part.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE STARLESS CROWN.

	"They that turn many to righteousness shall shine as the
stars forever and ever." —Daniel XII. 3.

Wearied and worn with earthly cares, I yielded to repose,
And soon, before my raptured sight, a glorious vision
	rose;
I thought whilst slumbering on my couch in midnight's 
	solemn gloom,
I heard an angel's silvery voice, and radiance fill'd my 
	room.
A gentle touch awakened me,—a gentle whisper said,
"Arise, O sleeper, follow me;" and through the air we
	fled.
We left the earth so far away that like a speck it seemed,
And heavenly glory, calm and pure, across our pathway
	stream'd.
Still on we went,—my soul was wrapt in silent ecstacy;
I wondered what the end would be, what next should meet
	mine eye.
I knew not how we journey'd hro' the pathless fields of
	light,
When suddenly a change was wrought and I was clothed 
	in white.
We stood before a city's wall most glorious to behold;
We passed thro' gates of glistening pearl, o'er streets of
	purest gold;

It needed not the sun by day, the silver moon by night,
The glory of the Lord was there, the Lamb himself its
	light;
Bright angels paced the shining streets, sweet music filled
	the air,
And white-robed saints with glittering crowns, from every
	land were there,
And some that I had loved on earth stood with them
	round the throne,
"All worthy is the Lamb," they sang,  "the glory His
	alone.
But fairer far than all beside, I saw my Savior's face;
And as I gazed He smiled on me with wondrous love and
	grace.
Lowly I bowed before His throne, o'er-joyed that I at
	last
Had gained the object of my hopes, that earth at length
	was past.
And then in solemn tones He said, "Where is the diadem
That ought to sparkle on thy brow—adorned with many a
	gem?
I know thou hast believed on Me, and life through Me
	is thine,
But where are all those radiant stars that in thy crown
	should shine?
Yonder, thou seest a glorious throng, and stars on every
	brow!
For every soul they led to me they wear a jewel now!

And such thy bright reward had been if such had been 
	thy deed,
If thou hadst sought some wand'ring feet in paths of peace
	to lead;
I did not mean that thou shouldst tread the way of life
	alone,
But that the clear and shining light which round thy foot-
	steps shone,
Should guide some other weary feet to my bright home of
	rest.
And thus in blessings those around, thou hadst thyself
	been blest.

The vision faded from my sight, the voice no longer spake,
A spell seemed brooding o'er my soul which long I feared
	to break,
And when at last I gazed around in memory's glimmering
	light,
My spirit fell o'erwhelmed beneath that vision's awful
	might.
I rose and wept with chastened joy that yet I dwelt below,
That yet another hour was mine my faith by works to
	show,
And yet some sinner I might tell of Jesus' dying love,
And help to lead some weary soul to seek a home above.
And now, while on the earth I stay, my motto this shall
	be, 
"To live no longer to myself but Him who died for me!"
And graven on my inmost soul this word of truth divine,
They that turn many to the Lord bright as the stars shall
	shine!
								SELECTED


PLURAL MARRIAGE.
     Not long since a friend of mine wished me
to give my views upon plural marriage. To 
illustrate this subject to your understanding I 
must say my experience has taught me there
is a great difference between the spirit of the 
world and that of the Gospel of our Savior.
With the spirit of the world, it is the most 
self-sacrificing principle that could be thought
of. But with the Gospel you can enter into 
the feelings of your friends, and do for them
as you would wish them to do by you, under
like circumstances; and take pleasure in show-
ing your love for them, having perfect con-
fidence that their feelings are the same for you.
But by the spirit of the world you could not
comprehend or believe such feelings were genu-
ine. The Savior taught that those who receive 
and obey the Gospel and take his yoke upon 
them, they would find the yoke easy, and the
burden light. 
	The law of Moses is the best lesson, or at 
least, best understood by the world. Pay
every one off in their own coin, and they will
readily see if it is acceptable when they meet it
themselves.
	The Gospel, St. Paul says, is a school master
to bring us to Christ. The primary lessons.
Christ’s law is of a higher grade, and requires 
more nobility of character, a greater love, with
light and intelligence, to make allowance for
small minds, who are only learning their pri-
mary lessons.
	In my youth I was taught to read the Bible,
and especially the New Testament. When the
message of the Gospel came to me in New
York I was a little past twenty years of age.
For a time I could not be persuaded to listen
to this new doctrine, but when I did, it 
looked so consistent that to be prepared for the
second coming of Christ there must be a peo-
ple who would apply their minds strictly to
His teachings I could believe nothing else, nor
have I since that time. I find that to believe
Christ's teachings practically you must be 
brought into circumstances to prove your in-
tegrity. 
	Plural marriage will do it in the full sense of 
the word. In it you will learn how much no-
bility of character you are capable of exercis-
ing and cherishing, and whether you have charity
in the true meaning of the word. You will find
how St. Paul defines the word in 1st Cor. 13th
chap.
	He says, Though I give all my goods to feed 
the poor and my body to be burned and have
not charity it profiteth me nothing.  He then
tells what charity is.  Allow me to say I have
been acquainted with the world for twenty
years outside of plural marriage and do know
of a certainty that there is as much unhappi-
ness outside; yes, much more than 1 have
known in it, when people of pure minds and
sincere and devoted hearts to Christ's teach-
ing have accopted it.  Such persons have a 
peace of mind the world can not give or take
away from them. Plural marriage will test
you to the center, even though your compan-
ion is a pure-minded and generous man.  If on
the contrary, you will live for a glory he fails
to attain to there need be no fear, for each will
have what we merit when we come into the 
presence of our Heavenly Father.  We learn
this from holy writ and believe it too. We 
also learn that woman although frail as she is
naturally, can be quite a help and a stay to a 
man who is measuring himself by the pattern
and living by the same rule called the golden
rule of Jesus the Saviour. 
	We also learn there is to be a class of peo-
ple who will be heirs and joint-heirs with
Jesus Christ. Romans, 8th chap., 17th verse.
	They must necessarily have the same oppo-
sition to meet that Jesus did, the same temp-
tations and also the same power to resist and

[Column 2]
overcome, or they could not merit the same
glory.  I remember at one time I heard Prest.
Young say:  "Never try to escape the affliction
you are called necessarily to pass through only
try and prepare yourself to meet it properly."
I notice it takes some people a long time to be
prepared to meet trouble with composure of 
mind.  Our Savior once said, if it is possible
let this cup pass by.  But not my will but 
Thine be done.
	St Paul says, "Be subject to the powers that
be, for all powers are ordained of God." St. 
Peter also 2nd chap. 13th verse, says: "Sub-
mit yourselves to every ordinance of man for 
the Lord's sake, whether it be to the king as
supreme or the governors," etc.  Our Savior
also by precept and example did the same.
This is our rule of action all who have the
strength of mind and are sufficiently ac-
quainted with true principles will measure
themselves by this pattern feeling the assurance
that it must needs be that offences come:  But
woe to them by whom they come.
	There was a revelation given to the Pro-
phet Joseph, Jan: 19th, 1841, saying: "Verily,
verily I say unto you, That when I give a com-
mandment to any of the sons of men, to do a
work unto my name, and those sons of men, go 
with all their might, and with all they have to 
perform that work, and cease not their dili-
gence and their enemies come upon them and
hinder them from performing that work; be-
hold it behooveth me to require that work no
more at the hands of those sons of men, but to
accept their offering," But also says He will
hold those accountable, who hinder the work.
Is not it as much their duty to receive the
message to be ready for our Savior's second
coming to earth, as it was ours?  Are not we
all the children of God? How many give heed
to his commands:  For instance  the com-
mand given in the garden of Eden.  It is lost 
sight of entirely by many, and if kept at all it 
is by accident,  not from pure motives.  The
Lord judges by the motives and intents of the
heart. Is there anything impure in keeping
the commands of God, and especially when
done with pure minds and with real intent to
keep those commands. A blessing may be
turned into a curse when a wicked spirit leads 
the mind.  Our daily food is designed to 
strengthen and bless the person; yet it can be
used in such a manner as to cause sickness.
Consequently we need wisdom from the foun-
tain of light and intelligence daily; and in giv-
ing strict attention to the laws of God we will 
have this wisdom, whether in married life or
unmarried. Life is short at best; let us be
wise and seek wisdom from the fountain of
light and intelligence even of God our Father, 
who delights to bless all who trust in Him.
                                        M. E. KIMBALL.
	Salt Lake City, Sept. 10, 1888.


Mme. E Gerard, a clever writer and the
author of several entertaining novels, must be
rather cosmopolitan in her tastes. She is a
Scotch woman born of French parents, and is
married to an Austrian officer.
	Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe reached home
on the evening of September 10th.  The trip
across the Sound on the steamer was very quiet
and restful.  For the first time in several days
she was able to sleep peacefully, which she did
during nearly the entire trip.  She was accom-
panied by her son, the Rev. Charles E. Stowe,
and her daughters.  On reaching Hartford she
was able to ride in a hack to her home, suffer-
ing no detriment.  She was soon sleeping
quietly, and her condition is evidently much
improved.  Her son says she has had severe
attacks of nervous restlessness, or insomnia
bordering on acute mania, and at times there
have been symptoms of congestion of the brain.
Her condition is still critical, but not hopeless.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter. 
SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	SEPTEMBER 15, 1888


GENERAL SEMI-ANNUAL CONFER-
				ENCE.

	The Fifty-ninth Semi-Annual Conference of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints will
commence at 10 o'clock Friday morning, October
5th, 1888, in the Tabernacle, Salt Lake City.
	The officers and members of the Church are re-
spectfully invited to attend.
	A meeting of the Deseret Sunday School
Union will be held at the Tabernacle on Friday
evening, October 5th, one of the Priesthood on
Saturday evening, October 6th, and of the Young
Men's and Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement
Associations on Sunday evening, October 7th.
				WILFORD WOODRUFF,
In behalf of the Council of the Twelve Apostles.


EDITORIAL NOTE.

	MRS. ELIZABETH LISLE SAXON AND MRS.
CLARA B. COLBY, two distinguished ladies of the
National Woman Suffrage Association, are ex-
pected in Salt Lake City on the 23rd inst., and
will give one or two lectures in the Salt Lake
Theatre.  Mrs. Saxon is a poet and a newspaper
correspondent, as well as a lecturer.  She speaks
upon Womnn Suffrage, Temperance and Social
Purity, and made "a decided hit" at the Interna-
tion Council at Washington, last April, when she
spoke upon the last named subject.  Mrs. Saxon
visited this city in the fall of 1882, and remained
here some little time.  Mrs. Colby is not only a
lecturer, but is also the Editor of the Woman's
Tribune, the official organ of the N. W. S. A.,
which is a weekly paper, published regularly in
Beatrice, Neb., but during the International Coun-
cil it was published daily in Washington, D. C.,
giving all the items of the Council and Conven-
tion, and the speeches and addresses in full. Both
these ladies have a national reputation, and both
were speakers at the International Council. The
ladies of this city, will, doubtless, give them a
cordial welcome.  They come here from the
Northwest, Oregon—and Washington Territory,
where they have been traveling and giving lectures
on the subjects named.


[Column 1]
PRIMARY FAIR.
	The Children's Fair was open for four days,
commencing on Wednesday, the 12th inst., and
continuing until the end of the week. There was
quite a creditable representation made of the little
people's work. As it is utterly impossible "to tell
it all" we shall not make the attempt, but only
particularize some of the very best articles on ex-
hibition.
	Of the country wards we noticed Big Cotton-
wood, Mill Creek, Draper and North Jordan had

[Column 2]
a variety of useful and ornamental articles, nicely
arranged on the tables. From Big Cottonwood
there was a hammer and chisel in iron work.
made by little boys, and so well done, that no one
could help admiring the workmanship; also
bread and pies by little boys and very
fine potatoes and other vegetables, raised
by them. A map of the United States, drawn and
colored by a little girl, showed very good
ability; there was also, from quite small boys of 
that ward, a ladder and rake, and from a girl old-
fashioned heavy woolen gloves, hooked, patchwork
quilts, plain sewing, ornamental needlework, and
many pretty things beside.
	Draper Ward, there was a very well made and
perfect shoe made by a boy; also vegetables
raised by boys, and cooking done by them; from
one of the girls a piece of home-made carpet, well
woven; the same little girl can put a piece into the
loom herself.
	North Jordan Ward had wax flowers, some
other handsome work, but the most unique article
was a bridle made of cord and horsehair, by a
little fellow who had also made the machine in
which it was manufactured; the bridle is very
strong and quite a curiosity.
	Mill Creek Ward, velvet pincushion worked in
the finest silk, very elaborately, and several other
articles of value. 
	Third Ward, Salt Lake City, had so many very
good things on their table, that it was rather
difficult to select what was most appropriate to
mention. In patchwork there was some over and
over hand sewing by a little girl four years old;
that child deserves to be praised; comb case cut
in wood work by a little boy, horseshoe covered
with velvet, edges corded, very neatly done, for
ornament, knitted tidy, made in flowers, very
handsome throw downs, in beautiful colors;
a patchwork quilt cover, neatly made, each seam
carefully pressed, the work all done by a small
boy; some drawings in very good taste by a boy
of the same ward.
	Of the city wards, there were many useful and
ornamental articles, made by little girls and boys,
all of them quite young, ranging in age from four
to fourteen, but as it is quite impossible to particu-
larize, we can only give a few, and say there were
many more just as good.
	Second Ward, very odd and handsome white
apron, elaborate crochet inserting and edging,
little girl.
	Fourth Ward, a cup and saucer in crochet work
by a little girl, that attracted the attention of all
who came in; flower painting, by a little girl from
the same ward, well done; also underclothing in
plain hand sewing.
	Sixth Ward, home-knit stockings, little girl;
card receiver in stars, made of thread on cut
pasteboard and bound, bows of ribbon; ribbon
work, banner worked on velvet, and other articles.
	Eighth Ward, a handkerchief bag made of a
towel, very pretty, by a little girl; sun-flowers,
large sized ones, so perfectly natural that any one
might pick them up thinking they were real; also
pretty wax flowers, and many other things.
	Tenth Ward made a good representotion of
various articles; fruit very good, and a handsome
quilt.
	Thirteenth Ward had an Essay on the First
Principles of the Gospel, written by a little girl
which deserves special mention, as to correctness
of style and expression; also from that ward a
very handsome ornamental banner, silk and tinsel
work, and a child's apron in colors, done in etch-
ing, and a handkerchief and reticule in novelty
lace.
	Fourteenth Ward had some hand sewing on
underclothing, very neatly done, and child's dress
made by hand, tucking, embroidery and button
holes, all very good indeed; wool flowers, hand-
somely framed, and very unique yellow and scarlet
tidy, crochet work; also daisy mats and crochet
lace.

[Column 3]
	Fifteenth Ward, there was quite a number of
useful and ornamental articles; there were the two
small trunks made by quite young boys; they were
examined carefully, and pronounced excellent
work; some very neat stocking darning by little
girls; very pretty and showy crazy quilts.
	Sixteenth Ward, an engine complete on wheels
made by a little boy (U. N. Narrow Guage); also a
wooden sled, by a boy, and a wheelbarrow from
another.
	Seventeenth Ward, a handsome reticule, made
of a silk handkerchief; crochet skirt, handsome
tidy, velvet and ribbon tidies, aprons, etc.; doll's
bed, made and trimmed, spread, shams and the
ruffles on the sham sheet composed of 72 scraps of
embroidery, neatly and regularly put together, by
a little girl; this was one of the curiosities. 
	Eighteenth Ward, some pencil sketches, by a
very little girl; also ornamental snowball, made of
white paper.
	Twenty-first Ward made quite a display. A
little wooden cradle, by a boy, was quite well
made; also a wooden knife box, made and painted;
there was very nice hand sewing by the little
girls, small dresses for children, made by hand,
pillow slips, etc. Of tidies, quilts, stockings,
cookery, preserves, and many odd things, there
was a great variety, and all very good.
	Certainly a great deal has been accomplished
by the children through the agency of the Prim-
aries, and the perseverance, patience and untiring
energy of the sisters who have had charge of
these helpful associations. They most assuredly
deserve the praise and the encouragement of all
interested in the rising generation. Theirs is a
great and noble work, and they should have all the
aid and assistance needful to help them in their
arduous labors.


AUNT PRESENDIA'S BIRTHDAY.

	According to an established custom among
many of the lady friends of the venerable sister,
Presendia L. Kimball, about fifty ladies met at her
residence, on September 7, 1888, to celebrate the
78th anniversary of the birth of this honored and
beloved mother in Israel.
	After congratulations and partaking of the
bountiful refreshments, furnished by loving hands,
the sisters spent a pleasant and profitable time in
social converse.  Sister Higbee, an aged veteran,
sang, "There's a difference between a Mormon
and a Saint," and afterwards the company joined
in singing the familiar and sublime hymn, "O my
Father, Thou that dwellest," etc.
	Sister Ann Tate offered a prayer, and the sisters
sang, "Home, Sweet Home."
	Sister Presendia Kimball then made a few re-
marks, but said she could not express her feelings
on such an occasion, but she felt very thankful
that the Lord had been so good to her. "Every
look is so good to me, so comforting, I do hope
the sisters will be blessed. This is a trying time
and we must cleave to the Lord."  Invited all the
sisters to speak, and hoped they would have a
good time.
	Sister Annie Savage said it hardly seemed like a
year since she saw all those dear old faces before,
and referred to Sister Kimball's telling them on
her last birthday, that they should all be allowed
to meet with her, and one another on her next
birthday (this year), which was now verified;
hoped Sister Kimball would live a long time, as
she did not want to miss the dear old faces, Sister
Savage alluded pathetically to her inability to hear
the voices of the sisters; hoped we would receive
a blessing, and so forth.  
	Sister Dover, Allen and Watmough each spoke
a few words, expressing their kind feelings and
love for Sister Kimball and for the truth.
	Sister Lula G. Richards was the next speaker,
and in her remarks alluded to the party two years
ago; when her mother was present, but now she


had gone to a better home, yet she felt that her
mother was there in spirit.  She referred to Sister
Kimball's having spoken in tongues on her last 
birthday and the sweet impression left on her
mind by the interpretation, which was given by 
Aunt Zina.
	Sisters Shulty, Tate, Whittaker, Nebeker and 
Mother Coon each made a few remarke, and the 
last named spoke in the gift of tongues, and the 
interpretation was given by Sister Kimball which
was very comforting to all present.
	Sisters Nebeker, Ware, Howe, Ridges, Higbee
Toone, Sharp, Howard and Grey, also Dr. Fer-
guson each said a few words of appreciation of 
and love for Sister Kimball, and expressed their
firmness in the Gospel, and their desires to prove
faithful.
	Sister Savage read a very kind letter from Sis-
ter Zina to Presendia L. Kimball, after which
there waa singing, "We thank Thee, O God, for a
Prophet," and a benediction was pronounced by 
Sister Savage.
	A very sweet and affectionate poem, written by
Laura E. Pack, of Kamas, was read to the com-
pany during the day.  The birthday was an ex-
ceedingly pleasant one, not only to the hostess, in 
whose honor the ladies assembled, but to all who 
participated in the spirit of the meeting.
	The EXPONENT adds congratulations and best
wishes to those of the many, many friends of 
Aunt Presendia.
							E. H. W.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


CLASS IN OBSTETRICS. 

	The Drs. Shipp will commence their next class
in obstetrics on Monday, Oct. 15th, 1888. Ladies
wishing to join the class will please communicate
immediately either with Dr. E. R. Shipp, 16 Main
St., or Dr. M. C. Shipp, 59 S. First East St.


[Column 1]
MEMORIAL ANNIVERSARY.

REPORT OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY MEETING
HELD IN THE OGDEN TABERNACLE, JULY
19TH, 1888, IN COMMEMORATION OF THE
LAST PUBLIC VISIT AND INSTRUCTIONS OF
PRESIDENT BRIGHAM YOUNG, ON INVITA-
TION OF PRESIDENT JANE S. RICHARDS, TO
THE RELIEF SOCIETY AND YOUNG LADIES'
IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATIONS OF THE
WEBER STAKE OF ZION, JUST ELEVEN
YEARS AGO THE 19TH INST.

(REPORTED BY JOHN M WHITTAKER.)

[Concluded.]
	Sister E. B. Wells, Editor of The WOMAN'S
EXPONENT, said:
	I feel glad to have the privilege of standing be-
fore you, just for a short time; and I am also glad
that there is but a few minutes left for me to
occupy.  I expect you are all tired, but no doubt
you will agree with me, that we have had a great
deal of good teaching.
	I feel to-day as I did eleven years ago to-day,
that this is a "red letter day" for the sisters of this
Stake of Zion.  I know that what was said on
that day has been like little seeds that have ger-
minated and grown up, and have since made a
harvest of good deeds, from the first appoint-
ment that was made here from this stand when
Sister Richards was chosen President of all the
branches of the Relief Society in this County, as
well as the Young Ladies'.  That appointment
was the first made in this dispensation of any
woman to preside over the Relief Society in an
organized capacity by President Young
on that occasion, and I bear testimony
that I heard him appoint Sister Jane S. Richards
to preside over all the societies and associations
in this Stake of Zion; and he also requested them

[Column 2]
at that time to make quarterly reports to be read
at quarterly conferences.  And it was here in
this Tabernacle that the first quarterly
conference of the Relief Society was called.
Bro. Richards gave out the notice by suggestion
of President Young, at the close of the meeting.
It was not long after that, that President Young
died.  And Sister Eliza went throughout this 
territory organizing in the several Stakes after
that pattern.
	Afterwards, I firmly believe it was revealed to
her, that she was to go forth and organize the
Young Ladies in a separate and distinct associa-
tion, but one in strict harmony and to work in per-
fect accord with the Relief Society.  And a great
work has been done since then.  I cannot help
repeating that this is a "red letter day" for the
women of Zion.  To speak of all the work that
has been done by the sisters, would take a great
deal of time.
	I know and can testify to the liberality of the
sisters of this Stake in giving means to the
Deseret Hospital.  The amount donated by them
has been next to that of the Salt Lake Stake, al-
though many Stakes have been very liberal.  And
when Brother Richards was speaking on that
subject, I thought of a little circumstance which
President Canute Peterson related when I was in
Sanpete, a short time ago.
	While he was absent on a mission in Scandina-
via, the sisters of Sanpete Stake, with all their
other donations, sent him a thousand dollars with
which to emigrate the poor from that country.  Do
you think we could ever have accomplished what
we have, unless we had been organized perfectly?
We should pray for those who are in responsible
positions. I feel positive that the sisters will sus-
tain Sister Zina D. H. Young in the position to
which she has been called—President over all the
Relief Society.  She will be at home before long.
I hope her health will be renewed.  I trust the
brethren and sisters will remember her and Sister
Richards in their prayers.  The position to which
Sister Richards has been called, has been filled
with efficiency.  And I trust the position of Sister
Zina will be filled with that efficiency with which
the work was performed by those who have gone
before.  Let the mantle of Sister Eliza fall upon
Sister Zina, that she may be able to satisfy the
people as Sister Eliza did in traveling among the
Saints, and assisting in doing good and in perform-
ing a great work; and it certainly is a great work.
I know that the sisters who labor in the organiza-
tions are striving to help build up the kingdom
and to work in harmony with the Bishops and
brethren; and that it is the desire of the sisters to
work in perfect harmony with the priesthood.
We must remember that there is a great deal to
do and a great amount of instruction to give; and
we are expected to work together.  There are
many things that it seems almost impossible in
our weakness to do; but when we receive encour-
agement from the brethren and are blessed of the
Lord, we persevere and go on with renewed
energy.  The sisters have just as essential a
work as the brethren, and while they do not go
abroad, preaching the Gospel to the nations of
the earth, they have a great work to do here at
home as missionaries.
	Since this meeting was called, I have looked
over some of the remarks of Presidents
Young and Taylor, who spoke eleven years ago
to-day, and have tried to get the spirit of that
meeting into my heart, so that I might realize it
here to-day.  And I think that the same spirit is
here.  It was a grand beginning, and I feel that
if Sister Richards wanted to resign her position,
it would be almost impossible.  Sometimes when
she has been sick and weak, and we have been
talking about these matters, she has said: "Well,
if I resign, somebody else can do it, better, per-
haps, than I."  Well, I don't think she should re-
sign a position she was called to by the President
any more than one of the Apostles should.  She
felt the same way in regard to the Hospital.  But
we all felt that we could not do without her in that
Board.  I pray God to bless and strengthen her more
abundantly.  She has given us a great treat here to-
day.  I think the Bishops and those who prepared the
dinner deserve great credit.  I heard several say
it was the best and most nicely arranged public
dinner that they ever attended.
	I feel to return my thanks to you, and especially
Sister Richards and those who proposed that
Brigham Young should come up here and speak
to the people assembled on that grand occasion we
now commemorate, and for the instructions he
then gave.  I hope you will all read about the
duties of the sisters, and all those who have pre-
served the WOMAN'S EXPONENT can read it from
that paper.  It was Bro. James Taylor who took
it down in short hand, and it was published after
President Young's death.  He spoke about home-
made bonnets and the manufacture of home-made
hats; and I remember very well when he came
and dedicated what was then called "The Co-
operative Millinery Establishment," but which
we generally speak of as the "Relief Society
Store."  He spoke of the silk culture, and urged
the sisters to plant mulberry trees, and about
storing up grain, and he seemed to remember
every little item that would come in the province
of the sisters to do, or which they could attend to,
I, for one, want to recollect these things; though,
perhaps, we do not carry out his instructions as
we should.  I remember hearing him say, that one
great mistake of his life was, that he paid all the
tithing for his family.  But if he had his life to
live over again, he would have every wife and 
every child each pay tithing.  Many of the other
leading brethren, when they paid their tithing,
would pay for their whole family also.  But things
are different in these days.  Every one should pay
tithing for himself or herself.  I remember an in-
stance of a young lady who taught school and
earned $100; I presume it was the most money
she ever had, and her mother said to her she had
better pay $10 for tithing.  But the young lady
thought it was too much to take $10 out of her
hard earnings, but purchased a nice switch of 
hair, and on her way home a sort of whirlwind
arose and took her switch and carried it away.
She advertised for it, and paid either fifty cents or
a dollar for advertising, but never found it
(Laughter).  She afterwards said if she had only
taken the advice of her mother and paid her tith-
ing, she would have been that much better off.
	I really feel that I am trespassing upon your
time; but I feel proud of this day.  It is a day
long to be remembered.
	President Jane S. Richards made some appro-
priate remarks about the anniversary, and called
upon Bishop E. Stratford, who was pleased to
have the happy privilege of meeting with the sis-
ters on so important an occasion, and trusted that
it would not be the last of such meetings.  He
was present eleven years ago, when President
Young delivered the sermon referred to.  He
had cause to appreciate the labors of the Relief 
Society in his ward, and felt to ask God to bless
the sisters in all they undertook to do.
	Sister M. A. Freeze, President of the Y. L. M.
I. A. of Salt Lake Stake, said:
	My brethren and sisters: I do, indeed, deem it
a privilege to stand before you and raise my voice 
in this assembly this day, and bear my testimony
that I know that Brigham Young was a prophet of
God, and that he was inspired of God in organiz-
ing the Relief and Young Ladies' Societies.  He
instructed them to work together with the same
purpose in view.  If I had no other proof of this
Gospel than this, I would know that it is the king-
dom of God, and that this is the work of God.
She felt to act in any and every capacity where
she might be called to labor, and prayed for the
welfare of Zion.


[Column 1]
Sister Maria W. Wilcox. Cor. Sec. Relief So-
ciety, Salt Lake Stake, said:
	My beloved brethren and sisters: I feel highly
honored and gratified in attending this meeting,
and feel this is a day long to be remembered; and
the instructions and counsel which have been
given, if we will follow them out in our lives,
will be beneficial to us all. These organizations
are timely; they have proved a great blessing to
the Saints. It has been the means of uniting the
people together in love and union and every good
and perfect work. And it is a pleasure to associate
in this capacity and realize the good we do from
time to time. I have been greatly blessed in
these associations, and I pray that the blessings of
our Heavenly Father may rest upon us at all
times. This is my desire, in the name of the Lord
Jesus Christ. Amen.
	Dr. R. B. Pratt said in substance, that she had
been pleased in what had been said, and that the
truths which had been uttered should be taken
home to every heart, and be lived up to in the fu-
ture. She desired to so live that her physical
and spiritual being would grow together in perfec-
tion.
	
She paid a high tribute to the work of the Re-
lief Society, and especially to the Deseret Hos-
pital.
	She thought we should so live as to be models,
not  only in morality and higher education, but
also in our physical beings. Our course should
be upward and onward, having high and noble
aims, and worthy purpose. Sister Pratt made
special reference to the labors in the Hos-
pital; that many had come there and been
marvelously healed by the power of God through
the ordinances of the Church. And also, that
that was a part of the treatment in the Hospital.
She believed that there was plenty of room in this
Church for all to labor in positions of trust, and
invoked the divine blessings of Providence upon
all, and especially the sisters, that they might gain
the crown that is awaiting the faithful.
	Sister Kimball said she desired to bear her testi-
mony to the truth of this work. I know Joseph
Smith was a prophet of God. I know no other
man could have done what he did. I know that
the principles which he taught are pure and holy.
I never have felt to be sorry for one moment,
although what I have had to pass through is known
to no one but God. Man could not realize it. I
could not express it. God knows I have done the
best I could. I know that Brigham Young was a
holy and righteous man. I would not give the
experience I have for all the wealth of this world.
I pray ever for exaltation and salvation in the
celestial kingdom of God. I feel, and have it in
my heart to be true to the end. I feel to bless
these my sisters. May God bless and comfort the
daughters of Zion, that we may be truly saviors
upon Mount Zion, is my prayer in the name of
Jesus Christ. Amen.
	Bishop Robert McQuarrie was pleased to be
here on so important an occasion, and he felt im-
pressed in looking over the people's faces to see
how promptly they would attend their meetings.
And he felt to thank God that there were those
who took an interest in such a great work as the
sisters have in hand. He did not feel to continue
his remarks, but asked the blessings of God upon
the people in the land of Zion.
	Sister Emily S. Richards expressed her kind
feelings, and was pleased to meet with those she
had learned to love while living in Ogden. She
desired to labor with the other sisters in the work
of God, and trusted she would, with the other sis-
ters, be blessed.
	President Jane S. Richards then expressed her-
self highly gratified with the proceedings, and
realized that she had been blessed this day, and
desired all those who had the same feeling to raise
their hands. (Every hand went up).
	She would like to hear from others, but it is

[Column 2]
late and we must close. She thanked those who
had so kindly contributed to the interest of the
occasion, the visitors and all who were present,
and prayed that God would ever bless the Relief
Society.
	The congregation joined in singing, "The Spirit
of God like a fire is burning." Benediction was
pronounced by Charles F. Middleton.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.
	CASSIA STAKE.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our first Relief Society Conference, which
convened June 23 last, was quite an event in
the early history of this, the Cassia Stake of
Zion.
	Nearly all the Society’s officers were present,
also the Stake authorities and several Bishops
of wards. The several branches of the Relief
Society in the stake were represented with one
exception, and their presidents reported them
as doing well, being alive to their duties and
flourishing as well as ever circumstances would
permit.
	The Presidents of the.Y. L. M. I. A. and
Primary Association also represented their
calling although but  few organizations had
been effected as yet.
	The Conference was addressed in an interest-
ing manner by Prest. Louisa Haight and her
Counselors, also Prest. Hunter of the Tooele
Stake and Sister Todd of Utah. Prest. Hor-
ten D. Haight, his Counselors and other
brethren gave some good instruction concern-
ing the duties and privileges of the Sisters.
	The speakers expressed a hope of spending
many another such an enjoyable occasion as
was our first conference.
				Louisa Pickett, Sec.

	VISITING TOUR, UTAH STAKE.
	On the morning of July 18th, 1888, per
appointment, the Stake Officers made a tour
through Utah Stake.
	Prest. Annie K. Smoot, in company with
First Counselor Eliza Taylor and Secretary
Mary Stewart, visited the southern part of the
County, namely, Springville, Spanish Fork,
Salem, Benjaman, Payson, Santaquin, Lake
Shore and Goshen, and then, on July 30th,
Prest. A. K. Smoot, in company with Second
Counselor Sarah E. Cluff and Assistant Secre-
tary Grace L. Smith, visited the northern part,
namely: Pleasant Grove, American Fork,
Alpine, Fairfield and Cedar Fort.
	While absent they held fourteen meetings;
met 1,023 children and 103 officers; traveled
140 miles, 56 miles by rail and 80 miles by
team, being absent 7 days, 4 days south and
3 days north; reorganized two Associations.
At each place programmes were carried out by
the children, consisting of songs, recitations,
etc.
	The officers of each Association gave verbal
reports, showing that the Associations
were all in a flourishing condition, and that
the officers were a united band of sisters. The
sisters gave some excellent instructions at each
place, both to the parents and children. 
	Prest. A. K. Smoot spoke on the subjects of
order, faith, obedience, prayer, etc. Exhorted
the sisters not to get discouraged in the great
work of teaching the future hope of Zion.
	The Spirit of God prevailed throughout all
the meetings; the children performed their
parts with zest and good will. The good roads,
pleasant weather, and the hearty welcome with
which the visitors were received, greatly re-
lieved, the monotonous and tiresome journey.
	Much credit is due to the officers of the
different Associations, and the brethren who
kindly assisted us in the discharge of our duties.
	The Primary Conference of Utah Stake

[Column 2]
was held at Lehi, Aug. 29th, in the Lehi Meet-
ing House, commencing at 2 o’clock p.m. On
account of the illness of Prest. A. K. Smoot,
the meeting was called to order by Sister Re-
becca Standing. Programme, consisting of
songs, recitations, Scripture exercises, ete., was
carried out by the children. Addresses were
made by Counselors Eliza Taylor and Sarah
Cluff. A short speech and song by W. W.
Willis, of Salt Lake City, when the meeting
was adjourned for six months.
	The forenoon was occupied by a business
meeting of all the officers of the different as-
sociations of Utah Stake. Verbal reports
were given in and different methods discussed,
after which the officers were all invited to the
school house, where a repast had been provided
by the sisters of Lehi. Over one hundred sat
down to the first table. A good spirit pre-
vailed and we had a good time.
	MARY STEWART Sec.
	GRACE L. SMITH Asst. Sec.
	
	SALT LAKE STAKE.	
The Relief Society Conference of this Stake
of Zion was held in the 14th Ward Assembly
Rooms, on Thursday, September 13th, Mrs. M.
Isabella Horne presiding. After the usual
opening exercises, the Secretary called the
president’s roll. Twenty-five presidents and
five counselors reported, representing, thirty
branches of the Relief Society. Minutes of
previous conference read and accepted.
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball addressed the meeting.
She spoke of her recent visit to San Francisco
and other parts of California, and the ideas
people outside entertained of our people; de-
scribed an interesting visit to a celebrated
church, and remarked that her visit had en-
larged her charity for those who were not of
our faith.
	Mrs. Ellen Barton spoke a short time; she
had recently returned from a visit to England;
had enjoyed her visit very much indeed, but
was glad to be at home again; thought the con-
dition of the world pitiable, because of their
willingness to accept evil reports, and their
lack of desire to hear the Gospel.	
	Prest. Horne spoke particularly about the
semi-annual reports being prapared to send in
to the Secretary as early as the 25th of Feb.
and of August, so that a correct report may be
made in time to read at the Stake conference in
March before the General Conference in April;
also in September before the General Confer-
ence in October. Hoped the sisters who had
so liberally sustained the Hospital would be
blest fourfold, and advised them to continue in
their good work. 
	Adjourned to 3 p.m. Singing, ,‘Doxology.”
Benediction by Mrs. B. W. Smith.
	Afternoon session: After the usual exercises
of singing and prayer, Mrs. B. W. Smith ad-
dressed the conference; spoke of the encourag-
ing reports that had been read and of the
Primary Fair; thought it a good showing, and
urged those present to go and encourage the
little workers. Advised the sisters to teach
the children to be faithful, truthful, honest and
industrious.	
	Mrs. E. S. Taylor considered it one of the
first duties of the Relief Society to attend the
conference. The organizations were by the
Prophet Brigham Young, that we might be
prepared for our many duties. Spoke of the
carelessness and lack of energy of some who
had been heretofore more diligent, and urged
those present to exhort, persuade and encourage
others to know and understand, and gain the
reward we have started out for.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells thought it was very com-
mon, to excuse ourselves in not doing our duty;
felt that we ought to attend the meetings con-
vened for our improvement, that we might
gain intelligence, wisdom and understanding.


Urged the sisters to read more, and learn what 
was transpiring here and elsewhere; thought
our lives and characters and example should 
be so exemplary as to refute the evil reports
circulated against us.  Mentioned the proposed 
visit of Mrs. Saxon and Mrs. Colby, two dis-
tinguished suffrage women and public speakers, 
and hoped the sisters would attend their 
lectures.  Advised the mothers to teach the
children to be industrious, as it prevented a 
great deal of mischief, and also to see that the 
children attended the Sunday School and Prim-
ary Association.  
	Mrs. E. Yates, Prest.  of the Relief Society 
of Millard Stake, bore a strong testimony to 
the truth of this work, and spoke of the scat-
tered condition of the settlements in the Stake 
where she presided, and the difficulty of meet-
ing together often under those circumstances.  
She gave the mothers good counsel in regard 
to controlling their children, and teaching 
them when very young.  Spoke eloquently 
upon Temple work, required at our hands, and 
the preparation we ought to make in order to 
perform it.  Related an interesting incident 
that occurred to a brother in Sanpete, urging 
him to perform the work for the dead.  
	Mrs. M. A. Freeze thought we should obtain 
the records of our ancestors, and leave it in 
proper order for our children if we could not 
do the work ourselves.  Exhorted all to dili-
gence in the path that leads to eternal life. 
Said many good things in a happy manner.  
	Mrs. R. Jones occupied a few minutes in 
speaking of the labors and duties devolving 
upon the sisters; thought we were not aware of 
the great responsibilities; we had entered upon 
a labor of love and life; let us help each other.  
Referred feelingly to the training of the young
people in keeping the commandments of God.  
	Prest. Horne: "Our pure minds require to 
be stirred up by way of remembrance, that we 
may not fall into a state of lethargy, that we 
may receive the bread of life that comes from 
above, which we require every day."  She 
related a dream of Mrs. Saxon's, the lady who 
is about to visit Salt Lake, that she had told 
when here on a visit in 1882.  Mrs. Horne 
pointed out the meaning,etc.	*	*	*	Spoke
of her visit to the old Church of St. Martyn's
when in England, recently, and said that over the 
entrance was the inscription:  "Holiness to the 
Lord," sbowing that they still retained that 
ancient custom of Israel.  She spoke upon the 
principle of tithing, and said she well remem-
bered when a girl, that every 10th shock of 
wheat in a field had a green bough stuck in it, 
denoting that the 10th shock was held sacred
for the ministry.  Urged the sisters to attend to 
paying tithing; also to cultivate humility, that
they might not be easily overcome by the 
follies of life.  
	Con-erence adjourned until December.  Sing-
ing, "Our God, we raise to Thee."  Benedic-
tion by Mrs. E. Howard. 
		E. HOWARD, Stake Secretary R. S.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	The regular semi-monthly meeting was held
in the 14th Ward Assembly rooms, Aug. 18,
1888, Mrs.M. Isabella Horne presiding.  Singing,
"O My Father," etc. Prayer by Mrs. How-
ard.  Singing, "O say what is Truth," etc.
	President Horne addressed the audience
Hoping all were well; was very thankful to 
see them all again; had been very successful
while abroad in getting her records; had a very 
interesting experience by being able to meet
many who were interested in hearing about
the Gospel.  Had traveled 15,000 miles; met
many gentlemen and ladies,a very few ignorant
persons were rude and impolite. 
	"I also met many of the Saints.  I hope I
have sown some seed that will bring forth 
good fruit.  I visited an Industrial school


while in Liverpool which I very much ad-
mired for it is proving a great blessing to 1,000
little waifs who have no parents;  they are
taken good care of and taught different trades
that will help them to become useful members
to society.  I am very thankful that it is as 
well with us as it is.  I hope we will acknowl-
edge God in all things.  I pray you may all 
enjoy the blessings of God on you and that
you may have peace and the Spirit of God.
	Mrs. Silver sang  "We thank thee O God 
for a Prophet" etc.
	Mrs. E. S. Taylor.  "I had perfect confi-
dence in the blessing that was promised on
Mrs. Horne before she left by one of the Apos-
tles; I felt all would be well with her; she was
ignorant of our doctrines and way of living as
there are.  We hope that many who are in in-
tense darkness in the world will yet be brought
to the light of the Gospel.  The gifts we have
are from our Heavenly Father.  Let us be
humble and faithful and overcome self, and 
bring ourselves into perfect subjection to the
will of God.  I hope we will try and live by
the light of the Spirit of God."
	Mrs. Watmongh.  "We are thankful that
Sister Horne has come home in safety.  I have 
an idea that all our testimonies are recorded
above and they are accepted by the Lord, and 
the better it will be for us thereafter the more
we bear.  May the Lord keep us faithful."
	Mrs. H. M. Whitney.  "I also feel to rejoice
over sister Horne's safe return.  The Lord
helped me to come to meeting to-day.  I plead
continually for the youth of Zion that they
may be kept in the ways of the Lord.  Many
will keep the faith, but some will sell their
birthright for a mess of pottage.  May God
help our young men and young women to learn
the ways of God and walk therein."
	Sister Jane Perkins: "I know this is the work
of God and I rejoice in it continually, and
may God keep us safe to our religion." 
Mrs. B. W. Smith.  "Do good to our
neighbor; keep the Sabbath day holy; attend
to our prayers; walk in the path of duty."
	Mrs. Dr. Barney.  "How do we know which
is the true church?  By the signs which follow
the believer.  We know by the scriptures be-
ing fulfilled in our day and in our church."
	Mrs. H. C. Young.  "We rejoice that we 
can read and understand the scriptures as they
are written.  The greatest knowledge we can
have is to understand the ways of the Lord
and the law of God is true learning." 
	Mrs. Stevenson spoke a short time very in-
terestingly concernimg her visit to England
and fullfillment of prophecy.
	A letter was read asking for assistance to
emigrate a family from England. 
	Mrs. Horne said a few words in closing. 
Singing "Praise to the Man," ect.  Benedic-
tion by Mary Silver.                         E H.


[Column 1]
LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL.
BY M. J. TANNER.
[Continued.]
	Williamsburg, Thursday, May 20th.  We
are very tired after yesterday’s tramp.  I am
busy preparing to move on to-morrow.  I have
become much attached to my cousin and her
family; the boys think they would like to go to 
Utah; I should be so glad to have them; it
pains me very much to think that I may never
see them any more.  I expect to meet my
Aunt Cornelia, my father’s sister, at Lockport;
she is also aunt to cousin Ettie, and the rela-
tives, I have seen so far, are on my father’s
side.  Before reaching Lockport I shall visit
at Ithaca with my mother’s relatives.  I have
enjoyed my visit here very much, and seen 
such things as Ettie could show me, though we

[Column 2]
could be engaged many days more, and still
see but very little of the great city.
	In the afternoon we go over to New York to
take a last look.  It is quite like a museum to 
go through the large stores: they are on a 
magnificent scale.  We stop at Ridley’s, which
is one of the largest, and go through it, as we 
have done other places, just to see.  I make a 
few small purchases, and wish once more for a
longer purse.  Prices here are the lowest I
have seen.  The stores are closed at six oclock,
and an iron grating drawn in front of them.
We walk along, looking at many things of in-
terest on the sidewalk.  We see lovely things
in embroideries, laces and flowers; one large
show window is filled with dolls; the sign on it
reads, “The Babies on our block.” Dolls of
every size and description, some of them as 
large as a child two years old, and beautifully
dressed. 
	When we get tired of looking we return
home; call at the express office to have them 
take my trunk to the depot.
	Ithica, May 16th.  Weather cloudy; it rained 
a little in the morning.  I have said the last
goodbye.  It is always sad parting with those
we may never meet any more.  Cousin Charlie
came with me to the train.  We crossed the
river at Hoboken, the widest ferry I have
crossed yet.  I said goodbye to Charlie, and
sped away on the train to see new places and 
new faces.

	Farewell, friends, by distance parted,
	Who can part without regret?
	Memory claims the tender-hearted,
	And we may remember yet.  
			
	The trees and fields are green now, and nature 
is lovely after being shut in by high walls,
where one never steps on the ground and sees 
only houses.  After all the magnificence of
man, there is an exhilaration in nature’s differ-
ent aspects that gives to the the mind another
train of ideas.
	11:15 we stop at a nice little station.  The
hills are covered with grass and trees, farms
and orchards.  A cemetery is on the hillside,
and the white stones gleam among the foliage.
Pass the factory where the Beaty Organs are
made.  News agent going through the train
every five minutes with something for sale.  Pass
through a long tunnel and come out in a beau-
tiful country, “Lovely as a poet’s dream.” If
I could only place it on paper, but words can-
not convey an idea of the lovely scenery,
houses nestling among the trees, villages scat-
tered among the hills, farms wherever the loca-
tion will permit.  Pass through another long
tunnel and stop at a station.  Quite a number 
of people get on the train.  It looks strange to
see farms so high on the mountains; they look
like patchwork.  We pass a pretty cemetery; the
graves are covered with blossoms.  We are
traveling through the Blue Ridge Mountains.
Pass Portland, a pretty town; houses mostly
painted white.
	12 m.  Water Gap.  The Delaware River
runs through the mountains here.  The eve-
ning is fine.  We are going up a steep grade 
and the iron horse puffs hard.  We pass
through a timbered country.  Some one is try-
ing to clear a farm but it looks discouraging.
1 p.m.  Another tunnel.  The country is 
covered with verdure.  The Lightning Ex-
press goes by; it is well named.  We go
through pine woods and it looks as though we
were on the top of the mountains.  A few old 
frame houses are scattered along, but every-
thing denotes poverty.  Moscone, 1:30 A pic-
turesque town.  The mountains are not like 
ours; the hills are not so high, nor the canons
so deep. We are descending and pass through 
another tunnel.  This is five tunnels we have 
passed through.  Scranton Pa.  The train
stops for dinner.  Binghamton 4:15  A pretty 
city. Omega, 5 p.m. Change cars.  The coun-
try is hilly as we travel along the Susqeuhana


River. Reach Ithica at last and receive a 
kind welcome from my cousins. Find two let-
ters waiting for me.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HOW FAR?

	I have a daughter just launching into woman-
hood, and I feel, as every mother does, likely, 
that I should like it to be a noble womanhood
for her sake, also for my own, for I should like
to do my life's work well, and the moulding of 
characters seems to be the great work for the
mothers.
	An incident happened this morning that has
kept my thoughts busy all day; so, in the hope 
that an abler pen than mine will take up the 
subject, I submit these thoughts to the EXPON-
ENT.
	This daughter wished to wear an article of
dress, or ornament, that is certainly a fashion
of Babylon, to which I objected, when she re-
marked, that if she did not, she would appear
odd from all other girls, and she could not see
why I objected, for Mrs. P——, President of 
the Young Ladies' Association, wore one. If
the daughters of good women, and good women
themselves, follow some of the fashions of the 
ungodly, where can we draw a line so we can
know how far we dare venture and still be safe 
from danger of contamination from the spirit
that prompts these fashions?
	We want our daughters' lives to be as bright
and happy as possible, but should we not try to
instil correct doctrine into their minds, even on
the subject of dress. My faith is, that if ever
we become the instruments in God's hand to 
accomplish His great purposes, we shall even 
dress in "holiness to the Lord."
							E. T. G.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	The tight coat sleeve is entirely abandoned
in favor of the sleeve of puffs and plaits.
	A new bangle is made of gold wire in the
 shape of an arrow which curves around the
arm.
	Outside pockets will be worn with fall gowns.
As they are convenient and can be made orna-
mental they will be heartily welcome.
	Bows of plaited braid appear at the foot of 
the skirt in all new gowns. They are well re-
ceived, ae they look well and save the dress
from wear.
	Realism permeates all arts—even the milli-
ners. The latest decoration for bonnets is a 
bunch of red clover blossoms or thistleheads.


[Column 1]
NOTES AND NEWS.
	Miss Julia Wolfe, an English lady, has com-
posed an opera entitled "Carina." The Musical
Standard says it will be produced in London
shortly. 
	Charles Lamb's grave at Edmonton is sadly
neglected. The simple slab of limestone which
marks the spot is nearly hidden with weeds
and grasses. 
	Amelie Rives-Chanler confines herself to very
few books, but those she does read are selected
with great care. Shakspere, Poe, and George
Eliot are her favorite authors. 
	The Senate has printed Mr. Blair's report
from the committee on education and labor, re-
commending a prohibitory amendment and has
embodied in it Mrs. Bittenbender's arguments
before the committee on behalf of the W. C. 
T. U. 
	Mrs. Alma Tadema is an instance of the

[Column 2]
kind of women, constantly growing more num-
erous, who achieve success and fame in the
outside world and still are thoroughly the mis-
tress of their homes. She is a model house-
keeper and adopts for a motto, "Kitchen first, 
studio second." 
	The world of art owes Princess Torrearsa a 
great debt for the preservation of the famous
collection of Greek vases brought together by 
the late archaeologist Serradifaleo. Through
her efforts the collection has been placed in the
museum of Palermo, at Sicily, where it will be
doubtless kept for all time. 
	The poems of Miss Mary Robinson, the En-
glish verse writer, have been translated into 
French, and, as a fitting acknowledgment of
her indebtedness, she is about to marry her
translator, Prof. Darmesteter of the College
of France. Miss Robinson is the author of 
the biography of Emily Bronte. 
	A bill has passed both the senate and house
of representatives to provide for the appoint-
ment of three police matrons for the District
of Columbia, at a salary of $600 a year each. 
These matrons, who are to care for women
prisoners in the nation's capital, are to be ap-
pointed on the recommendation of ten women 
in good standing in the district. 
	There are not many men who have the business
ability necessary to the successful management 
of an income of $7,000, a month. No wonder
that her business managers are surprised at 
Mrs. George Westinghouse of Pittsburg, whose
income is considerably larger than the amount
mentioned and yet who handles it with wonder-
ful shrewdness and business tact. 
	The fact that women have clever hands and
nimble fingers as well as brains is being demon-
strated more and more clearly every day. Since
Rosa Bonheur first showed the world what a 
woman might do for art, the growth of the 
number of artists of the gentler sex has been
on the constant increase. The latest success
is that of Miss Bentley of Cincinnati, a
teacher of wood carving. A recent exhibition 
of the work done by her lady pupils shows
some remarkable originality of design and 
great firmness and delicacy of execution. 
	General Philip H. Sheridan died of "heart
failure" after several months' illness, August 
5th last. The remote cause of death was
disease in the valves of the heart. He was 
under sixty years of age, having been born at 
Somerset, Ohio, March 6, 1831. General 
Sheridan's parents came from Ireland and 
settled in Ohio in the first quarter of the cen-
tury. At twelve years of age the boy, Phil, 
found employment in a hardware store. Next
he passed to the dry goods counter. While
thus employed he heard of an opportunity to
go to West Point, and at once wrote to the 
Congressman of his district about it, and to his
surprise was nominated. Five years were
spent at the National Academy, but at twenty-
two he was graduated and assigned to duty on 
the frontier, where he was stationed at the
opening of the late war. His career during
the war was that of cavalry officer, a hard
fighter, and a most successful one. He exem-
plified his organization in a most striking way, 
at once earnest, courageous, persistent, cautious, 
quick, and spirited. He gave to his men an 
intrepidity, confidence, and audacity like his
own, which enabled him to get a great deal
more work out of ten thousand men than
another commander would get from twenty
thousand. His presence with a command
fairly doubled its strength. Thus another of 
the "Old Guard" is gone.—Ex.


OBITUARY.

	DIED, in Centerville, Davis Co., August 8th, 1888, of
typhoid pneumonia, Sister Emeline Leavitt Smith, wife of
President William R. Smith, aged fifty-six years. Deceased
was born in Canada, in 1832, was baptized when abont
twelve years of age; shared in many of the trials and per-
secutions of the Saints. She lived in plural marriage with
her husband, and was true to her covenants. She was a 
faithful wife, a loving mother, a kind neighbor, and was
beloved by all who knew her. She was counselor in the
Relief Society for many years, which position she held at
the time of her death   She discharged all her duties
with credit to herself and the satisfaction of others. She
will be well remembered by many who have shared her
hospitality. She leaves a husband, three sons and four
daughters, a number of grandchildren and a host of 
friends to mourn her loss.

	Mary Ann Reeves was born February 12th, 1812, in the
town of Birmingham, in the County of Warwick, Eng-
land. Embraced the Gospel in the year 1840; in the year
1852 she, with her husband and three children, embarked
on the ship Ellen Maria to New Orleans, from thence up
the river to Kansas City, crossed the plains in A. O.
Smoot's company; her youngest child died and was buried
in the Black Hills; arrived in the valley September 3rd;
lived in Salt Lake City two years, after which she and her
family moved to Centerville, Davis County, which was her
home up to the time of her death. When the Relief So-
ciety was organized in Centerville, she was appointed
treasurer of the Society; she held that office for several
years. About ten days before she died she went to pay a 
visit to her daughter, who had gone to reside at Brigham 
City, where she was taken very sick, from which she never 
recovered, but died August 11th, 1888. Her remains
were brought to Centerville for interment. She was a kind
and affectionate mother, wife and friend. She died as she
had lived, a true and faithful Latter-day Saint, with a sure
hope and faith of coming forth in the resurrection of the
just.										A. C.


R.K. THOMAS

EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.

R.K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS, 
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY"S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to
	Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
