VOL. 17.                   SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 15, 1889.                 No. 24.


NELLIE'S CHILD 
We have brought one more dear Jennie,
	To share your quiet rest;
A habe, whose lips but yesterday 
	Were warm on its mother's breast.

But lo! the world's grey reaper,
	In the silent midnight came 
And folded the babe in his mantle;
	And tenderly breathed her name,

To the ever watchful angels,
	As one too fair and sweet,
To battle with earth's temptations,
	Too fragile its storms to meet.

So he hushed her to rest on his bosom,
	And folded the small white hands,
And kissed her lips, as her spirit passed 
	To the waiting angel bands.

Oh! Weep for the mother's anguish,
	Weep, weep, for the father's pain;
As he laid the beautiful lifeless clay, 
	In her outstreched arms again. 
		
For the sounds of that sobbing midnight,
	Though years may come and go,
Will never pass from that darkened home,
	Or the hearts that loved her so. 

No pearl in its case of velvet,
	No flower, just snatched away 
From the parent vine, was ever so fair,
	As the babe we mourn to-day.

So we brought her to you, dear Jennie,
	To the silent city that lies 
Out under the sunlit heavens,
	Out under the starry skies.
		
With its still white stones, like fingers,
	Pointing ever one untrod way,
Pointing up, through the western shadows.
	Pointing up, through the dawn-light grey.

Where, under the arch of the rainbow,
	And the pitiful falling rain,
We laid you to rest from labor,
	We hid you away from pain.

When we covered you up with blessings 
	For the deeds that your hands had done,
And hallowed your last sweet slumber,
	With the love that your life had won. 

And twice, since we brought you hither,
	With sorrowful hearts and sore,
We have come to thy sacred dwelling,
	And stood by an open door.

Once with your own loved child, and now,
	With the babe of your eldest born;
And the doors are closed to be ope'd no more,
	Till the last great, glorious morn.

So we leave them with you, dear Jennie,
	In the silent city, that lies
Out under the starry heavens,
	Out under the sunlit skies,

With the still white fingers pointing,
	From the dust that our teet hath trod,
To the broad blue path that leadeth,
	To the home of your rest with God.
								MILLICENT.
Zenos, A. I. April, 1889.


[Column 1]
THE VOW OF WASHINGTON.
	The following is a copy of Whittier's poem, read at the 
Washington Centennial Celebration in New York on
[Column 2]
﻿Tuesday last by Clarence M. Bowen, Secretary of the
Centennial Committee:

	The sword was sheathed; in April's sun 
	Lay green the fields by freedom won;
And severed sections, weary of debates,
Joined hands at last and were United States.

	O city sitting by the sea !
	How proud the day that dawned on thee,
When the new era, long desired, began,
And, in its need, the hour had found the man! 

	One thought the cannon salvos spoke;
	The resonant bell-tower's vibrant stroke,
The voiceful streets, the plaudit-echoing halls,
And prayer and hymn borne heavenward from 
		St. Paul's!

	How felt the land in every part 
	The strong throb of a nation's heart,
As its great leader gave, with reverent awe,
His pledge to Union, Liberty and Law! 

	That pledge the heavens above him heard,
	That vow the sleep of centuries stirred;
In world-wide wonder listening people bent,
Their gaze on Freedom's great experiment.

	Could it succeed ? Of honor sold 
	And hopes deceived all history told.
Above the wrecks that strewed the mournful past,
Was the long dream of ages true at last? 

	Thank God! the people's choice was just,
	The one man equal to his trust,
Wise beyond lore, and without weakness good,
Calm in the strength of flawless rectitude !

	His rule of justice, order, peace,
	Made possible the world's release;
Taught prince and serf that power is but a trust,
And rule, alone, which serves the ruled, is just;

	That Freedom generous is, but strong 
	In hate of fraud and selfish wrong,
Pretense that turns her holy truths to lies 
And lawless license masking in her guise. 
 
	Land of his love ! with one glad voice 
	Let thy great sisterhood rejoice;
A century's suns o'er thee have risen and set,
And, God be praised, we are one nation yet.

	And still, we trust, the years to be 
	Shall prove his hope was destiny.
Leaving our flag with all its added stars
Unrent by faction and unstained by wars.
 
	Lo ! where with patient toil he nursed 
	And trained the new-set plant at first,
The widening branches of a stately tree,
Stretch from the sunrise to the sunset sea.
 
	Aud in its broad and sheltering shade,
	Sitting with none to make afraid,
Were we now silent, through each mighty limb,
The winds of heaven would sing the praise of him.

	Our first and best!—his ashes lie
	Beneath his own Virginian sky.
Forgive, forget, O true and just and brave,
The storm that swept above thy sacred grave ! 

	For, ever in the awful strife 
	And dark hours of the nation's life;
Through the fierce tumult pierced his warning word,
Their father's voice his erring children heard ! 

	The change for which he prayed and sought
	In that sharp agony was wrought;
No partial interest draws its alien line 
'Twixt North and South; the cypress and the pine !

	One people now, all doubt beyond,
	His name shall be our Union bond;
We lift our hands to Heaven, and here and now,
Take on our lips the old Centennial vow.
[Column 3]
	For rule and trust must needs be ours;
	Chooser and chosen both are powers
Equal in service as in rights; the claim
Of Duty rests on each and all the same.

	Then let the sovereign millions where
	Our banner floats in sun and air,
From the warm palm lands to Alaska's cold,
Repeat with us the pledge a century old !

Oak Knoll, Danvers, Mass.


KISSING. 	
	To kiss according to Webster means "to
salute with the lips.” And the pleasure derived
there from depends entirely upon the relation-
ship, existing between the kisser and the kissed.
If the souls meet, a thrill of joy and pleasure
permeates the whole system; but if the object
kissed be not a human being, the effect can
not possibly be the same, though the impres-
sion produced may be just as powerful,—forin-
stance when the Idolater kisses his Idol, a re-
ligious sensation comes over him—all his better
nature is aroused, and the baser and more
selfish part of his composition remains in the
back ground. He lives only for his God, and
at that moment, any or every earthly posses-
sion would be sacrificed to further any purpose
believed to be desired by the Idol he worships.
While in such moods the Priests of the dark
ages, used to exert their influence, to lead the
people, and gained control of the earth, so great
their exertions, and so patient their toil.
	When a fond mother takes her babe upon
her knee, she feels all the enrapture of mater-
nal affection, as she presses kiss after kiss upon
the tiny forehead of the little one who nestles
close to the one person, in all the world, whom
it loves. Such pure unadulterated love exists
nowhere else in all humanity. —
	Though the next is the expression (through
the lips) of that deep and all powerful love,
which a noble man bears toward a noble wo-
man, and without which no woman is safe in
becoming a wife—Wicked and unprincipled
men are incapable of such a deep feeling love,
and what the soul does not feel the lips can not
portray.
	Again there is the kiss of deceit, such as
a false friend would administer, the same that
Judas gave his Master in the betrayal—and
the sympathetic kiss given by a parent to a
suffering child, or a living friend to one who
has passed to the other side. In such kisses
the heart speaks, there is love and tenderness
iu the touch of the lips, and sometimes great
relief is realized from penned up grief by
bringing tears to the eyes, which have before
refused to be moistened.
	But if the lips are the most sensitive, the
most impressive, and the most delicately con-
structed organs in the whole body;—how easily
disease can be communicated from the sick or
dead, even from heir-looms, to the devoted
friend or relative, who tries to sooth pain, or
whose reverence of God and Ancestors
prompts him to press his lips to the frequently
handled “Holy Bible” or to any of the many
articles left him by his fore fathers.
	After the same manner can the most dreaded
disease, known to mortal man, be transmitted
from father to son, and from sister to sister;
when it was designed by the Almighty that
only those who should abuse their natural gifts
should suffer from so great a punishment. X.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS
		      BEAVER P. A.
	The 10th anniversary of the Beaver Primary
Association was held March 23d, 1889, con-
sisting of a sumptuous dinner, and a programme
for the aged people; all those of seventy years
and upward were invited, and at 1 o'clock p.m.
the aged were seen wending their way to the
First Ward assembly hall, where a table
spread with the good things of the earth
awaited them; the blessing was pronounced by
Patriarch Johnathan Crosby; after which meet-
ing commenced. President Mary A. Lolton
presiding. Singing, "Beautiful Zion." prayer
by Bishop J. X. Smith. Singing. "Beautiful
Day." Minutes of the previous meeting were
read and approved. The programme was as
follows:
	Roy Sheppard recited "The golden keys,"
Carrie Bird sang. Lucy Jones recited "Good
resolutions." An essay on "Let us be useful,"
was read by Jane Grimshaw. Esther Clay-
borne sang. May Cox recited. Willie Ash
sang. Lillie Stoney recited "The dead doll."
A song was rendered by Willie Ash Wilford,
and Frank Burnett. Ella Pitts recited, A
dialogue was rendered by Cassie O'Donnell
and Nora Baker. Vina White recited "Be
kind to the aged." Lydia Hutchings and
Cassie O'Donnell rendered a duett. Sister
Jane Gillis made a few remarks; Counselor
Mary Fernley sang.
	Counselor Agnes Hutchings spoke a short
time, gave some excellent instructions to the
children. Meeting adjourned for one year
singing "O, come children, come," benediction
by Patriarch Daniel Tyler.
			MARY A. LOLTON, President.
			KATIE SMITH, Secretary-

	    SALT LAKE STAKE PRIMARX.
	The quarterly conference of the Primary
Associations of the Salt Lake Stake, was held
in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall, Saturday,
March 16, 1889 at 10 a.m., Counselor Camilla
Cobb presiding. Meeting opened by singing
"Gladly meeting." Prayer by Sister E. How-
ard. Singing, "Good morning," by Mr. Evan
Stephens Primary class; minutes of previous
conference were read and accepted. Recita-
tion by a little boy from the 3d, Ward;
dialogue, two girls from the same ward.
Roscoe. Eardley sang a song. Reports were
then read from the Primaries of the 3,4,5, and
7th wards. Duett by two girls of the 5th,
ward, "Buy my flowers." Reports read from
the 8,10. and 14th wards. Recitation by a
little girl from the 9th ward. "The children
are praying for me," was sung by little Miss
Bowring; reports from the 16,17,20, and 21st
wards.
	Sister E. B. Wells addressed the children;
regretted there were not more boys attending
our primary. Told the children about the Or-
phan Asylum, and that they should be mindful
every day of their blessings in Zion; urged
them to cultivate Faith; related a story illus-
trating her remarks upon the principle of
Faith. Also ureged them to be obedient to 
their parents and to those who preside in their
associations.
	A little boy of the 8th ward sang a song,
also annie Sorenson of the 9th ward sang, and
two girls of the 10, ward sang "Why did they
dig mamma's grave so deep." Reports read
from the 13,15, and Sugar House wards. Song
by a little girl of the 12th ward.
	Sister Zina D. H. Young praised the child-
ren's exercises; wished the Presidents to hand
in the names and ages of the children who
took part in the conference. Asked the child-
ren to repeat after her in chorus:
	'Tis education forms the common mind,
	Just as the twig is bent, the tree's inclined.
Johnnie Merrill and Master Fox each recited
[Column 2]
very nicely. A dialogue was given by five
girls of the 16th ward. Questions were an-
swered by four girls and two boys of the 17th
ward. More reports were read making nineteen
in all. Essay, Master Woodruff of the 21st
ward. Willie Stevens and a little girl of
Union Ward each recited.
	Sister Mary A. Freeze spoke a few minutes
to the children on order and "The word of
Wisdom." Sister E. Howard made a few in-
teresting remarks. Counselor Camilla Cobb
spoke a few words, and adjourned the con-
ference for three months; singing "Good
night," prayer by Counselor Lydia Ann Wells.
					BESSIE DEAN Sec.
		MARICOPA STAKE.
	Our Relief Society conference was held
March 22d, at the Mess Hall commencing at
1 p. m., President S. M. Pomeroy presiding,
President C. I. Robson and counselors and
other brethren were present; opened by sing-
ing and prayer. President S. M, Pomeroy,
desired the faith and prayes of the brethren
and sisters present, to sustain her in her new
position, presumed we should all miss the kind
face of our former President Sister E. S. Mc-
Donald and none more than herself; prayed
that our hearts might be unitedly raised in
prayer to God, for blessings upon this con
ference, that all who may speak may be
filled with His Spirit.
	Roll of officers called showing a full at-
tendance; minutes of previous conference read
and approyed. Presidents of the several
branches gave verbal reports, showing a
marked improvement among the sisters, espec-
ially in the attendance of meetings. Sister
E.G. McDonald having arrived by the Mesa
stage, was listened to with pleasure while she
addressed the meeting a short time: was happy
to be in our midst again; had enjoyed her
visit while away. Spoke briefly concerning
the prospects of our people who had gathered
to Mexico; thought their hardest trials were
over and their prospects were good for the
future. Thought the authorities there were
friends to our people; they had enver shed the
blood of the Saints or persecuted them; they
were kindly disposed, thought that would be a
place of refuge for the Saints. Spoke of the
principle of Charity. "Our trials cause us to
draw near unto the Lord; we should avoid the
spirit of selfishness, in giving and aiding each
other we are blessed." Spoke of the influence
of the evil one, who is continually laying
snares to entrap those who is continually laying
snares to entrap those who are the hightest, or
who are doing the most good.
	S. M. Pomeroy was pleased Sister McDonald
was with us but regretted it would be for such
a short time. Was gratified with the reports
from the different branches, they were cer-
tainly encouraging. Had visited in company
with her counselors the several places in the
Stake, and cold testify to the truth of the
reports. Spoke of the Indian mission, where
some of our sisters are laboring so faithfully
to benefit and redeem them from their degraded
state; "we should assist them with our faith and
prayers, and not stop there, but donate liberally
to the support of these faithful brethren and
sisters. We should exercise the spirit of
Charity towards each other, avoid slander,
and the spirit of ridicule, which is pernicious
in its effects, and is explained by a famous
German critic as the wit of an ignorant or
stupid person; it is indulged in thoughtlessly
by some just for fun, but somebody is always
hurt." She desired to honor the position she
was placed in, and work in harmony with
the authority of the Stake. The statistical
and financial reports were read and the Relief
society officers sustained.
	Counselor Henry Rogers was glad to see the
growth of the Society; felt that the kingdom
of God was growing; referred to the duties of
[Column 3]
a Teacher. It is no trifling thing to be an
officer in these organizations; let each one re-
alize the responsibility resting upon them and
at the same time be joyful."
	President Charles Robson had listened with
pleasure to the remarks that had been made:
had yet to attend a meeting of the Latter-day
Saints where there was not good instructions;
“it is left with us to carry them out. It is our
duty to live by every word of God unto us.
Whilst the wife is given as an helpmeet, if she
exercises her powers rightfully, she becomes
the larger half.” Felt to bless the sisters and
honor them in their calling as a Relief Society.
Made many more interesting remarks which
were timely and to the point.
	Counselor Sarah Russell spoke briefly: felt
that life was too short to indulge in ill-feelings
towards each other.  "We can assist others in
many ways with words of sympathy and love.”
	Brother Charles Allen spoke a short time, in
a very interesting and encouraging manner;
felt the sisters were doing a good work among
the Saints; and gaye many good instructions to
mothers in Israel. Brother A. F. Stewart and
Oscar Stewart each bore testimony of the
good work being done by the sisters.
	Sister E. G. McDonald wished to make a
few remarks in regard to out new President;
urged the sisters rtq sustain her in her posi- 
tion; bore testimony to her faithfulness as
president of the Teachers and Stake secretary.
The Teachers had heen faithful in their duties,
and the success of the Society was mainly due
to their faithfulness. Their meetings were
among the best she had attended; also bore
testimony to the faithfulness and diligence of
her former counselor Sisters E. Morris and
Sarah Russell, felt this was a duty she owed
them. Thanked the sisters for the faith and
confidence they had eyer shown her.
	President S.M. Pomeroy made closing re-
marks. Felt to thank Sister McDonald for
her kindly interest in her behalf. Felt desir-
ous of doing her duty regardless of fear or
criticism. Thanked the brethren for their
good instructions in regard to our duties, felt
it obligatory (upon us to treasure them up and
put them in practice in our lives.
	Sister Addie Passie was apppointed repre-
sent the Maricopa Stake Relief Society at the
conference to be held in Salt Lake City in
April. The President also recommended the
sisters of the Stake to subscribe for the EX-
PONENT. Conference adjourned for three
months. Singing. Benediction by H. Rogers.
			SUSAN WILCOX, Secretary.


Miss Mary A. Brigham, of Brooklyn, the
new president of Mount Holyoke Seminary
and College, is an alumna of that institution,
and a native of Westboro', Mass. She has
taught at Mount Holyoke and at Ingham Uni-
versity, Leroy, N. Y., besides in Brooklyn, and
has been offered a professorship at Smith
College and the presidency of Wellesley.
	Cases of infection that could be accounted
for in no other way, have been explained by
the fingers as a vehicle.  In handling money,
especially of paper, door knobs, banisters, car
straps, and a hundred things that every one
must frequently touch, there are chances in-
numerable of picking up germs of typhoid,
scarlatina, diphtheria, smallpox, &c. Yet
some persons actually put such things in their
mouths, if not too large! Before eating, or
touching that which is to be eaten, the hands
should be immediately  and scrupulously
washed. We hear much about general clean-
linness as "next to godliness." It may be
added that here, in particular, it is also ahead
of health and safety. The Jews made no mis-
take in that "except they washed they ate not."
It was a sanitary ordinance as well as an ordi-
nance of decency.			Sanitary Era.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SISTER MARTHA.
Dear, patient, suffering one, how very small;
Aught I can do to aid thee, if at all.
One glim'ring ray of light I may extend
To cheer thy loneliness, My Mother's Friend.

My mother loved thee, ere I knew the worth
Of friendship, such as her's and thine, on earth;
She's found that home, of peace and rest so sweet,
Where thou wilt soon, herself and others greet.

The lips of innocence thy name shall bear
Unto the Father; and in guileless prayer,
Tell Him how longingly thy soul doth wait,
Eager to enter the Eternal Gate.

And it shall be, when shades of evening fall,
Thine ears shall hear sweet Seraph voices call,
Bidding thee welcome to the heavenly place,
'Neath the approving smiles of God's dear face.

Peace, peace, oh weary heart! And from this hour,
Be lifted far above each darkening power.
Though things of earth, thine eyes no more behold,
Within thy soul, shall heavenly light unfold. 

The time no longer shall seem long to thee,
Henceforth thy spirit shall be glad and free;
And soon—yea, very soon shall waft away,
From night of gloom, into Celestial day.

To thy poor eyes, all sightless many a year,
How doubly glorious will that light appear;
Which shall reveal, in beauty, and in truth,
Faces and forms, which thou hast loved in youth.

How near, to me, that world of spirits seems!
How oft dear friends, from thence, return in dreams.
Oh, sister Martha, to my parents there,
Wilt thou, for me, a message kindly bear?

Tell them, I'm striving to be meek and pure,
Like them, life's crosses bravely to endure;
That I would tarry till my boys are men,
And help them learn God's holy will and then—

Well, I'll not state what I may then desire,
I'll only ask that God will me inspire,
That all my ways may be his ways for me;
Please tell them this my constant aim shall be.

A few more days for thee—then will be drawn
Aside the veil—from us thou wilt be gone;
Gone to thy loved ones, to thy sure reward;
Dear Sister Martha, Praise, oh, praise the Lord.
								LULA.
April 15th, 1889.


THE POET’S SEASON.
	It has been said, and truly, that Spring is
the poet’s season.  There is a peculiar fresh-
ness in the earth, and in the air, which pene-
trates, as it were, to the very centre of all in-
animate things, and causes the blades of grass
to shoot upward, the leaf and the floweret to
burst forth.  The soul, which is higher than
any of these forms of beauty, must in conform-
ity with creative forces be in sympathy with
all these, especially the soul of the poet, that is
ever more or less en rapport with nature.  The
poet feels this beauty without, this overflowing
of nature’s fountains, and the same impulse is
intensified in him, because the higher order of
his creation demands expression.  In the
Spring the birds carol their sweetest music,
warble forth their most charming melodies;
they sing for joy that new life has sprung up.
The poet Thomson, in his "Season," beseeches
the birds for melody:

	"Lend me your song, ye nightingales!  Oh pour
	The mazy running soul of melody 
	Into my varied verse, while I deduce
	From the first note the hollow cuckoo sings
	The symphony of Spring."

	There is so much music in Springtime that it
is little wonder one tries to catch the inspira-
tion, and utilize some of the rich material to
embellish life in its sober work-a-day phases.

[Column 2]
How beautiful the power of the keenly sensi-
tive, gifted soul who can gather up the sun-
beams, the dewdrops, the music of wood and
glen, in flowing fountain or in song of birds,
and apply its essence and its sweetness to rhyme
and rhythm, and thus carry the pleasures of
Spring into the homes of the people, who, while
they are employed in the various occupations
of life, can nevertheless enjoy the sentiments
others have expressed, and in unison with the
poet exclaim, “These are my own thoughts and
aspirations.” As the chemist extracts and
condenses the strength of the elements of sub-
stances, and uses them for the various purposes
to which they are necessary for man, in food
and medicine, so the poet adds to the richness
of the inner life, the metaphysical, elevating its
tone and giving grace and beauty to the mind
and heart.
	It is not alone the birds who feel the in-
fluence of Spring, but the young lambs skip
and gambol, the calves frolic as though con-
scious of the delights of nature everywhere ap-
parent to man.  Indeed, all the greatest efforts
of nature seem to have culminated through in-
nate forces and assumed tangible forms, or to
have wakened after the long rest of Winter
into newness of life.  The affections are
stronger, too, or at least we so comprehend it,
at this season of bud and bloom, and Tennyson
tells us,in that oft quoted stanza from Locksley
Hall:

"In the Spring a fuller crimson comes upon the robin's
	breast;
In the Spring the wanton lapwing gets himself another
	crest;
In the Spring a livelier iris changes on the burnish'd
	dove;
In the Spring a young man’s fancy lightly turns to
	thoughts of love."

	All the pulses of nature are quickened and
the corresponding human pulses likewise, when
the body is in good condition.  Lowell says:

	"What we call nature, all outside ourselves,
	Is but our own conceit of what we see,
	Our own reaction upon what we feel—
	I find my own complexion everywhere."

	Coleridge has said, too:

		"We receive but what we give, 
And in our life alone doth nature live.
Ours is the wedding garment, ours the shroud."

	We might go on quoting the opinions of the
poets on this inexhaustible subject, which has
been so much talked of and still remains more
or less of a mystery, but suffice it to say, the
poet is an interpreter of the beautiful in nature,
but the scientist covers the entirety, for he an-
alyzes nature; and instead of giving us, as the
poet does, its music and beauty inspirationally,
he gives quality and utility, and styles himself
the true interpreter of nature’s forces. 
	Having skimmed over a little of the ground,
and dwelt upon birdnotes and melody, we next
consider the flowers in this connection. 	
	The flowers of Spring are as necessary to in-
spire the poet as are the songs of birds, or
the babble of brooks; and flowers are not only
one of the elements of poetry, but also symbols
of love.  Music, flowers, poetry and love are
very nearly related.  Who can faithfully de-
lineate the effect of flowers upon the senses.
They speak to us forcibly in a silent language
none fully understand, but all interpret in a
measure.  They feast the eye gratefully, and
their fragrance is exhilarating to every sense
we possess.  To enumerate the varieties and
delights of flowers would be impossible, we all
have some favorites, and we all comprehend
what a wilderness this earth would be without
them.  Mary Howitt expresses our own
thought, as true poets ever do, when she
says;

[Column 3]
	"God might have made the earth bring forth
	    Enough for great and small,
	The oak tree and the cedar tree,
	    Without a flower at all;	
	He might have made enough—enough
	    For every want of ours,
	For luxury, medicine and toil,
	    And yet have made no flowers."

	From time immemorial flowers have been
associated with love and tenderness, indeed,
tenderness is a part of love, for what we love
most we are most tender of.  Whatever appeals
to the heart fosters and strengthens the affec-
tions.  It is perhaps because the Spring is the
season when flowers are freshest, and birds sing
sweetest, and skies are bluest, that love is
strongest.  And one’s own heart is so full of
the tender passion that one wonders what the
birds say to each other, and what the flowers
think, and the poet sings of their secrets in
strains like these:

	"I wonder what the Clover thinks,	
	Intimate friend of Bob-o-links,	
	Lover of Daisies slim and white,
	Waltzer with Buttercups at night,

	Oh, who knows what the Clover thinks 
	No one unless the Bob-o-links!"

	Who would sing such a song except one in
love, yes, in love with nature?  And who that
has felt the divine sentiment in its purity and
intensity does not know that to be in love
glorifies all beauty?  In Eastern lands, where
love is said to be most intense, there flowers
abound and fruits are most luxuriant.  Flowers
in the fields and meadows feast the eye of the
traveler and inspire the pen of the poet, but
flowers in and about the home are indications
of beauty in life and character.  Their influ-
ence is always good and brightening.  The
lowliest cottage is handsomely adorned when
flowers are blooming round it, and graceful
vines trail o’er its doorways or its portico.
Even, those who pass by respect its inmates
more, and to the indwellers these simple adorn-
ments are often of more value in adding to
their happiness and enjoyment than the ele-
gancies and splendor of the rich.
	Nature herself is rich in embellishment, if
we will but dispose her varied gifts becom-
ingly.  At all seasons of the year the poet may
find himself in harmony with nature, but the
Spring has many advantages, many charms to
beguile the poet into musical, mazy rhythm.
Therefore we should be lenient with even the
humblest aspirant who sips at the perennial
fount of poesy, remembering that all are weak
compared to the great Author of that nature
to which we are indebted for our subjects
Undoubtedly Spring is the poet’s season, for it
is then God’s goodness strikes us most forcibly,
and the poet must drink freely from the pure
fount of knowledge, and  all intelligence
comes from Him, and He is love.
							AUNT EM.


The Woman’s Congress will meet in Denver,
Col., next October. The following speakers
will take part:
	Mrs. Ednah D. Cheney; “Civil Marriage,”
Laura Linton: “Women in Science,” Helen S.
Shedd: “Women in Affairs,” Mrs. Hazard:
"Crime and Its Punishment,” Speakers of last
year: “Immigration,” Mrs. Stevenson: “Child
Life Among Zunis,” Symposium; “Employ-
ment of Prisoners,” Maria P. Bray: “House-
keeping as a Profession,” Miss Ripley: “The
Sacrifice of Education to Examinations,” Dr.
Smith: “Common-Sense in the Nursery,” Mrs.
Myers: “What Authors Influence the Mind of
Youth To-day,” and Mrs. H. L. T. Wolcott
“Horticulture.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER: WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
					Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.
SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	MAY 15, 1889.


[Column 1]﻿
WASHINGTON’S INAUGURATION.
	On the 30th, of April a century ago in the city
of New York a ceremony took place which has
just now been commemorated throughout the
United States in a fitting manner after the lapse
of a hundred years. The inauguration of George
Washington the first president of the Great Re-
public is an event of such importance that the
nation can well afford to celebrate with charac-
teristic observances the hundredth anniversary.
“First in war, first in peace, and first in the hearts
of his countrymen,” was this great General, hero
and President. After all these long years his
name is everywhere spoken with tenderness and
reverence.
	An interesting and memorable centennial cele-
bration of the anniversary of the first inauguration
is indeed a just and honorable tribute to the mem-
ory of this illustrious General patriot and states-
man, and awakens in the hearts of the people an
appreciation of the blessings that have come down
to them as a heritage from the efforts and labors
of those heroic men whom God inspired to es-
tablish religious liberty and freedom upon this
goodly land, America.
	New York City was very different then from
what it is to-day. The ceremonials of the time
were however very grand and elaborate, and the
display was on a magnificent scale. The formal
official ceremony took place in the Senate
Chamber of the Federal State House, which
looked out upon Broad Street.
	“The windows and the roofs of the houses were
crowded and in the streets the throng was so
dense that it seemed as if one might literally walk
on the heads of the people. The balcony of the
hall was in full view of this assembled multitude.
In the centre of it was placed a table with a rich
covering of red velvet and upon this on a crimson
velvet cushion lay a large and elegant Bible.”
	General Washington’s “entrance on the
balcony was announced by universal shouts of joy
and welcome. His appearance was most solemn
and dignified. Advancing to the front of the
balcony he laid his hand on his heart bowed
several times, and then retired to an arm-chair
near the table. The populace appeared to under-
stand that the scene had overcome him and were
at once hushed in profound silence. After a few
moments Washington arose and came forward,
Chancellor Livingston read the oath according to
the form prescribed by the Constitution, and
Washington repeated it resting his hand upon the
table. Mr. Otis the Secretary of the Senate, then
took the Bible and raised it to the lips of Wash-
ington, who stooped and kissed the book. At
this moment a signal was given by raising a flag
upon the cupola of the hall for a general discharge
of the artillery of the Battery. All the bells in
the city rang out a peal of joy, and the assembled

[Column 2]
multitude sent forth a universal shout: The Presi-
dent again bowed to the people and then retired
from a scene such as the proudest monarch never
enjoyed."
	The ball which was to have been given on the
evening of Inauguration Day was postponed until
May 5th, 1789. Of the ladies who were present on
that occasion much has been said and written and
the subject has been revived during the last few
weeks, and the dresses and jewels worn by them
as well as their illustrious names received due
prominence. The ball was given in the Assembly
Rooms which were in a large wooden building
standing upon the site of the Old City Hall or at
115. Broadway where the Barrell building now is.
About three hundred were present and it is said
Washington danced in the cotillion and in the
minuet at this ball.
	The general centennial celebration of the in-
auguration of George Washington took place in
New York on the 30th of April last, although in
all parts of the United States there were services
and ceremonials and it was observed everywhere
as a National holiday. Utah was not an exception
to the general rule. In the large Tabernacle in
Salt Lake City, also in Ogden and in Provo, there
were suitable services, speeches and music. The
orator of the day in Salt Lake City was Lieut. R.
W. Young a grandson of Brigham Young. In
Provo Bishop O. F. Whitney delivered the ora-
torial address. Both these young gentlemen
acquitted themselves admirably and delighted the
assembled populace. In Salt Lake City the Hon.
Geo. Q. Cannon made a thrilling patriotic speech;
we should be glad to publish in full the speeches
made on the occasion but that is not practicable.
The daily newspapers give full reports of the
wonderful proceedings, parades, speeches and
music, in all the cities and towns throughout the
country. Hereafter we may give some sketches
of the proceedings in New York City.


WEDDING BELLS.
"Hail !  Wedded love, 
Perpetual fountain of domestic sweets."  
	On Tuesday at half past 8 a. m., the 30th, of
April 1889, a marriage ceremony was solemnized
at the residence of Major W. W. Woods, in
Murray, Idaho, the aged Father Joset of the "Old
Mission,” officiating.  In this marriage the writer
has a particular interest, the bride being her
grand-daughter Verona May Woods, who only a
few months ago left the city with her parents who
moved from here to Northern Idaho.  The young
lady was for some time an employee of this office
and her face was familiar to those, who are in the
habit of frequenting it from time to time. The
bridegroom is Mr. Barry N. Hillard, of Murray,
formerly of San Francisco.  The young couple
started the morning of their marriage on their
wedding tour coming direct to this City where
Mrs. Hillard has many relatives and friends.
They were met at the depot on their arrival the
evening of May 2d. by a party of ladies, with a
warm welcome—greetings and congratulations
and a profusion of flowers.  They remained here
only a few days, the time being fully occupied with
visits and calls.  They left on the morning of May
7th, for Chicago where they will spend a few days
in sight-seeing returning home via the Northern
Pacific R.R. taking in St. Paul’s and Minneaopolis
enroute.  May every blessing possible rest upon
the newly wedded pair and the richness of love’s
fruition crown their lives.
	“But happy they!  the happiest of their kind!
	Whom gentle stars unite, and in one fate
	Their hearts, their fortunes, and their beings blend.”


A SAD BEREAVEMENT.
	Only a few months ago we published the death
of the wife of Heber M. Wells, and now it be-


comes again our painful duty to record the sad
death of his little son, Manning Beatie Wells, who
departed this life May, 10th, at half past five p m.
His death was peaceful and wholly free from pain,
sinking as though falling into a profound slumber,
the immediate cause being partial paralysis of the
throat.  He was, no doubt, ushered into the pre-
sence of angels," who rejoiced at his coming, 
though unseen to those who waited by his bedside
with sobs and moans.
	For the father, in his lonliness, so suddenly be-
reft, the most intense sympathy is felt.  But he
has the consolation of the promises of the Gospel
to trust in, and two other little children who need
his loving care and constant attention.

	They are not lost!  They are within the door
		That shuts out loss, and every hurtful thing--
	With angels bright--and loved ones gone before,
	In the Redeemer's presence evermore, 
		And God himself, their Lord, and Judge and
			King."

	Manning was born in this City August, 1884,
and was a most sensitive and interesting child.
Fondly attached to his mother, he seems to have 
longed for her ever since her death in October
last.  His last words to his agonized father who
sat by his dying bed, breathed more than whis-
pered, were, "Papa, I'm going home!" strikingly
significant and prophetic were those parting
words.  Who shall say that this little child had
not an intuition of the joy of meeting his be-
loved mother; and that just upon the verge of
that "better land," he paused to breathe this
farewell to the beloved one he was leaving 
behind.

	"Better than earthly presence, e'en the dearest,
		Is the great blessing that our partings bring;
	For in the loneliest moments, God is nearest, 
		And from our sorrows heavenly comforts spring, 
			If God be with us."

	The funeral was held at the residence on Sun-
day, May 12, at 12 m., Bishop O. F. Whitney pre-
siding.  The speakers were Bishop Whitney,
Elder John Nicholson, and Apostle H. J. Grant.
The singing was almost heavenly; and the casket
in which lay the form of the little one was literally
buried with flowers, tokens of love from those 
who mourned.  At the grave the scene was pitiful
but all that could be done, to comfort the father
and relatives, seemed to have been accomplished.
The grave was dedicated by Apostle H. J. Grant,
and the choir sang "Rest on the hillside."


SILVER WEDDING.
	Quite a large party of friends of Mrs. Emily H.
Woodmansee assembled at her residence in this
City on the evening of May 7th, to offer their con-
gratulations on the anniversary of her wedding
day twenty-five years previous, and to express
their esteem for one who has contributed so much
to home literature in Utah.  For more than thirty
years Mrs. Woodmansee has written from time
to time, poems that have voiced the sentiments of
the “Mormon” people, and which invariably con-
tain the true ring of the pure metal.  Many choice
gifts of silver articles were brought as small
tokens of friendship and the appreciation of her
labors.  The house was handsomely decorated
with flowers and brilliantly lighted for the occa-
sion.  One thing detracted somewhat from the
enjoyment of the affair; it was the absence of one
of the principal parties in the contract twenty-five
years ago—Mr. Woodmansee himself-—however
the guests were “on pleasure bent,” and there
was much feasting and merriment.  Several fine
singers rendered favorite melodies and simple
ballads awakening sweet and tender memories,
among them were Mrs. Maggie Romney once a
popular songstress, but whom we seldom hear


now-a-days, also Miss Fanny Graehl, Miss Nettie
Raliegh and Miss Gladys Woodmansee—and we
must not neglect to mention in this connection
Mr. C. W. Stayner and Mr. C. R. Savage, The
principal feature of the entertainment, however,
was a poem written by Mrs. Woodmansee and
read by her during the evening as a welcome to
her guests.
		A WORD OF WELCOME.
				———
ADDRESSED TO AN ASSEMBLAGE OF FRIENDS.
				———
	Welcome ! welcome, friends and guests—
		To the best my house can give;
	I am honored, pleased and blessed, 
		Your kind notice to receive.
			Near and dear ye are forsooth
			In the bonds of love and truth.

	From the utmost ends of earth,
		From the kin we call'd our own;
	From the lands that gave us birth,
		Came we here for truth alone;
			Heaven hath made us rich amends.
			Heaven hath sent us sterling friends.

	"In the mountain of the Lord,
		Where resplendent Temples rise,
	Where Jehovah's law and word
		  Goeth forth" to make us wise;
			Where congenial spirits meet,
			Social bliss is most complete.

	High and low, the pure of heart
		On an equal platform stand;
	Wherefore should we drift apart,
		"Be ye one" 'tis Christ's command,
			Pride of riches, pride of race
			Is, in Zion, out of place.


	False distinctions mar the age,
		Haughty souls contempt inspire; 
	Goodness ! is God's standard guage,
		Yet, will modest worth mount higher.
			Children of the King of Kings,
			Be not slaves to friv'lous things.


	Subtle foes our homes surround—
		Waiting on their prey to spring;
	Honest friends are captive bound—
		Close together should we cling.
		 	Link'd by love, both hand and heart—
			Each to each can strength impart.


	Though we drain Life's mingled cup,
		Joys we have beyond compare.
	"Saints of Latter-days" look up !
		Days await us bright and fair.
			Tribulation, loss and pain,
			Yet shall yield us endless gain.

	'Neath this roof, to-night, my friends,
		May you some enjoyment see;
	Cordially my heart extends—
		Unto each a welcome free.
			Welcome, welcome, great and small,
			Welcome, welcome one and all.
					EMILY H. WOODMANSEE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
				———
	THE next number of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
June 1, will commence Volume 18, and after care-
ful consideration, we have decided to place this
little home publication within the reach of every
family in Zion, by reducing the price of the sub-
scription, instead of improving the appearance of
the paper.  The price for the coming volume will
be one dollar per year to all subscribers, except
to those living in this city whose paper is sent by
post and that will be 25 cents extra for postage
and also on all foreign papers.
	The regular meeting of the Woman Suffrage
Association of Utah was held in the Social hall
Thursday, May 9, 1889.  Owing to the indisposi-
tion of the President, Mrs. Caine, the chair was
occupied by Mrs. P. J. Riter. Miscellaneous
business having been completed, the following
programme was carried out: Mrs. M. Y. Dougall


read a sketch of Mrs. Mary A. Livermore which
contained a great many exemplary features; as
she was not only a model wife and housekeeper,
but also a lady of superior intellectual ability.
Hon. A. Miner favored the association with an in-
teresting speech upon the object and advancement
of the suffragists.  Miss Viola Pratt, in her
charming manner, favored the assemblage with a
solo entitled "Last Night," which was highly ap-
preciated.  The time having fully expired, a
speech from the Beaver Suffrage association, to be
read by Mrs. Nellie Little, was postponed until
the next meeting.  The association then adjourned
for one month.
	The ladies of Nephi met in the tabernacle at 2
p. m. May 11th, for the purpose of organizing a
Woman Suffrage association.  The meeting was
called to order by Mrs. Mary Pitchforth.  Mrs. 
Pitchforth was nominated chairman of the meet-
ing and Mrs. M. E. Teasdale secretary.  Singing by
the choir:  prayer by Mrs. S. A. Andrews. The
secretary then read the call.  The following
officers were elected:  President, Miss L. A.
Schofield; first vice-president, Mrs. E. B. Bryan; 
second vice-president, Mrs. M. E. Neff; third
vice-president, Mrs. M. A. Cazier; secretary, Miss
Lou Udall; corresponding secretary, Mrs. Annie
Atkin; treasurer, Mrs. L. A, Hartley; executive
board, chairman, Mrs. M. A. Grover; Mrs. M. E
Whitmore, Mrs. Mary Wright, Miss Emma
Adams, Mrs. Ella Jones, Mrs. S. E. Abbott, and
Mrs. Julia Paxman, members of the board.  The 
constitution was then read and adopted. Speeches
were made on woman suffrage by the follow-
ing named ladies and gentleman:  Miss L. A.
Schofield, Mrs. M. Pitchforth, Mr. F. W. Chappell,
Mr. W. H. Jones, Mr. J. W. Paxman and Mr.
Charles Sperry.  The Payson brass band
rendered sweet music at intervals.  The meeting
was well attended by the ladies of Nephi, and a
very pleasant and profitable time was spent.


[Column 1]
WOMAN SUFFRAGE IN OGDEN.

	An official call having been previously issued,
signed by influential women of Ogden, for a 
meeting of suffragists to be held in the Ogden
tabernacle, Monday, April 1, 1889,  accordingly,
in response, there was a large number of ladies
in attendance.  The meeting was called to order
by Mrs. H. C. Brown.  Mrs.  Emily S. Richards,
having been appointed chairman of the Executive
committee for Utah, at the last Annual Conven-
tion of the N. W. S. A. in Washington D. C.
April, 1888, was nominated chairman, protem, of
the meeting.
	The chairman then stated that the first business
in order was to elect a Secretary protem.  Mrs.
Mattie A.  Cannon was elected to that position.
	Meeting opened by singing, "Know this that
every soul is free."  Prayer by the chaplain, Mrs.
Sarah Richards.
	Mrs. Ellen Hamer moved that the chairman
appoint a committee on Constitution and By-laws.
The chair appointed, Emily M. Shirtliff, Ruthinda 
Monch, and Mamie Richards.  While the com-
mittee retired, Mrs. Jane S. Richards, by request,
stated briefly, the object of the meeting.
	Mrs.  Shirtliff being ready to report, read the
By-laws, and upon motion, they were adopted as
read.  The chairman stated: "It is in
order to adjourn for ten minutes, so that
those who wish to become members may have the
privelege of signing the Constitution and becom-
ing members, by paying the initiation fee of
50 cts.
	Ten minutes being up, the house was called to
order by the chairman, who stated the next busi-
ness in order was the election of the permanent 
officers of the Association.
	Mrs. Ella Woodmansee moved that the chair

[Column 2]
appoint a committee to nominate permanent offi-
cers.  The chair then appointed Mrs. Jane S.
Richards, Mrs. H. C. Brown and Mrs. Sarah
Herrick as the committee.
	The following ladies were appointed.  Eliza-
beth Y. Stanford, President; Mamie Richards,
first vice-president; Charlotte Driver, second vice-
president;  Ellen Pingree, secretary;  Aggie
Herrick, assistant secretary; Maggie Chambers
corresponding secretary;  Ella Woodmansee,
treasurer.
	Executive committee—Chairman; Rose Canfield
—Marian Burton—Ellen Hamer—Sarah Bel-
nap—Rose Scowcroft—Belle Littlefield—Nellie
S. Thomas;—Harriet Nye.
	Mrs. A. E. Monch addressed the association
upon the topic of Woman Suffrage.  "Many men
believe that a woman's knowledge should be
limited to the home circle; but when we have
other knowledge, such as an understanding of
Civil Government and kindred subjects, we im-
prove our humble cottages, our home life.  An
eminent writer says: "Show me the mothers of a
nation and I will tell you its character."  The
lady closed with the hope of trying to encourage 
all in the noble cause.
	Mrs. Emily S. Richards responded when called
upon, and expressed herself as being very much
interested in this great question.  Did not see
why we should not have the franchise.  The
ladies should be well posted in politics, and able
to hold many public positions as well as men,
and therefore wished to encourage her co-lobor-
ers to regain their votes if possible.
	President E. Y. Stanford was nominated as a
Delegate to attend the Convention held in Salt
Lake City April 9th.  For a short time President
E. Y. Stanford spoke by request.  "Woman has
charge of the rising generation, and for this
reason she should feel interested in the question
of Woman Suffrage and everything that tends to
enlightenment.  Woman's opinions and rights
should be respected; especially, when considered
that it is to benefit the human race, not only in
government, but in every place where her influence
extends, and she should have the largest liberty
to gain intelligence, and to exercise it in promot,
ing the greatest good."  The Association ad-
journed for one month.  Prayer by the chaplain-
Mrs. Sarah Richards.
 			ELLEN PINGREE, Secretary.

	The monthly meeting of the Woman Suffrage
Association of Ogden was held in the County
Court House, May 2d, '89.
	The Association was called to order by Presi-
dent E. Y. Stanford.  Prayer by the chaplain E.
H. Nye, "Glee" by the choir under the leadership 
of Prof. L. D. Edwards.
	An address by Mrs. L. D. Alder, which con-
tained many excellent ideas, relating to the posi-
tion of woman political societies, and was so in-
teresting, that the strictest attention was de-
manded.  The lady came from Salt Lake by in-
vitation of the officers of the Association, and
her address was very much appreciated.
	Mrs. Maria L. Newman of Ogden also made an
excellent address which proved to be instructive
as well as entertaining.
	A delightful song was rendered in sweetest
style by Flora Purdy, accompanied by Prof. L. D.
Edwards.
	Mr. Joseph Stanford kindly consented to speak
for a short time.  He gave many excellent views
upon woman's privileges, encouraged the ladies to
strive to regain their rights.  Referred to Glad-
stone who always counseled with his companion,
and to Lord Palmeston whose wife was a constant
help to him acting as his secretary.  Made happy
allusions to the respect in which great men had
held their wives and taken their advice and sug-
gestions in their high career as statesmen and


politicans, conversing with them upon all subjects
relative to politics and government, as well as
other matters of importance.  There are many
positions in public life to which women are
admirably adapted.  School teaching and the
training of the young is a legitimate field for
women to occupy.  And for which women are more
especially adapted.
	Many other things were referred to by the
speaker that were excellent.  A vote of thanks
was given to all who assisted in carrying out the 
programme.  The names of new members were
read by the secretary.  Glee by the choir; meet-
ing  adjourned for one month.  Prayer by the 
chaplain.  
				ELLEN PINGREE, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	  WOMAN SUFFRAGE MEETING.
			[CONTINUED]
	A well written address was then delivered
by
		DR. MARTHA P. HUGHES.
	To make men and women nobler, or purer,
or more intelligent, is the object of every
worthy enterprise, political and social, and
without such an aim, every undertaking should 
fail. That such has been the endeavor of the
earnest workers in the field we are now investi-
gating is beyond a doubt in my mind. It is
remarked by one of our modern thinkers,
"that it is not enough to be prompted by a
good motive or be inspired with a zealous de-
sire for the welfare of men and women, for
often honest enthusiasm and conscientious
finaticism have been the exponents of ruinous
schemes and fearful woes, neither is it sufficient
to simply find the instruments for the work of
progress and reform, there must be a combina-
tion of motive and work, a blending of in-
tellect and emotion, a strong desire with a firm 
hand, a righteous purpose with competent skill
to accomplish any permanent good, or to carry
to success any needed reform."
	In the woman's suffrage movements of recent
times there has been exhibited nearly every con-
ceivable combination of motive and instru-
mentality, and the success attending the labors
of philanthropists who have been engaged in
this work of reform has been in many ways
equally vacillating, complicated and discon-
nected, yet out of the work of the last forty
years, those interested in woman's advance-
ment, can find much to encourage and repay
them, and woman to-day has attained a posi-
tion legal and social far above that she held
half a century ago. The women of to-day have
obtained from men their much desired and
much deserved liberty. In these times the
standards of value have been readjusted, and
whereas once physical force and reckless cour-
age, were held in the highest and almost exclu-
sive esteem of mankind, now the jewels of wis-
dom, purity, culture, beauty, love and skill
have a value, that outweigh and can purchase
that brute force once so priceless. Once to be 
born a female. was to become a plaything and
a slave, to-day in the best and most powerful
circles, woman is the peer of the noblest man.
	There was a time when women possessed
none of the rights which they have to day, and
the increasing respect, which the law-makers
are showing them, marks with its various gradu-
ations the advancement of civilization and
Christianity. The regard which men have for
culture, refinement and purity is measured by
their love of women.  "The grade of a man's
mind, and moral attainments, can be safely es-
timated by the respect he shows his lady
friends." To feel the value of true woman-
hood, and to appreciate its delicacy, requires a 
nice and acute intellectual power. Brutes 
never feel it. Barbarous or half civilized men
never recognize it.

[Column 2]
	"The laws of a land are the best indices of
the people's acquirements, and are throughout
all history, the standard by which we judge of 
national advancement in civilization and
morals. We have but little reason to be
ashamed of our judicical standard today, for
the most impartial minds admit that our legal
practice is more just and reasonable in its deal-
ing with women, than that of any nation, or of
any time mentioned in history. There is much
however remaining for great minds to do, and
for the masses to accept, before either male or
female citizens can be said to enjoy perfect free-
dom and perfect equality. Certain it is how-
ever that never has the code of any people
given to woman such extraordinary privileges,
as have been bestowed by the judicial decisions 
and statute laws of our land."
	With the exception of the right to vote and
hold certain political offices, there are no rights
given to unmarried men which unmarried wo-
men do not possess. But it is this right to vote
that we as women of Utah are now contending
for. Having once enjoyed the elective fran-
chise, and having had it taken away from us
without cause, we are justified in appealing to
the nation to regain that which rightly belongs 
to us. That the privilege of voting, and the
holding of political offices by women is going
to do all that the zealous advocates of woman's
suffrage now claim is doubtful in my mind, still
there are no justifiable grounds on which these 
privileges should be withheld from them.
	All men and women are created free and 
equal. All are morally responsible for their
own wrongs. "The difference in their natures is
not a difference in value; but in the kind of 
merit. He has qualities which she has not, she
possesses traits and genius he does not; they
differ from each other and yet, in their worth
to the world, and to God, they are equal with
each other."
	Every human being of sound and matured
judgment should be personally responsible for
his or her own criminal conduct. Sex merely
should not debar any person from public office
or emolument if a constituency be found desir-
ious of his or her service.
	"No privileged class either of sex, wealth, or
descent should be allowed to arise or exist, all
persons should have the legal right to be the
equal of every other, if they can." After wo-
men have attained equal rights in every respect
before the law, that men now enjoy, and it is
only a matter of time when this will be the
case, there will doubtless then be some
drunken, brutal husbands, some parsimonious
and contemptible heads of families, fraud and
wrong doing, aching heads and aching hearts,
perhaps as many as now, but the skirts of the
law will be clean, and will no longer be com-
pelled to bear the blame; and woman will then
stand where she rightfully belongs, on an equal
platform with man before the law.
	"Nature, civilization, Christianity and the
chivalry of the law, as it comes to us from 
Knights of English fendal ages, all combine to
impress upon us, the moral and religious pre-
cept that women should have more rights be-
fore the law than men." But we simply ask for
equal recognition, still I am forced to feel that
many of the hardships that women endure,
arise more from custom and fashion, than from
disabilities before the law.
	"Woman as much as man is the architect of
her own fortunes. There are yet many realms
of silence to be made vocal, many scientific
truths to be discovered, many arts to be per-
fected which require the hands and the minds
of woman. She must feel her new responsibil-
ities." She must begin as nearly all great men
have begun, and give herself to the acquisition
of wisdom and skill, and her very opposition
and difficulties will be gain. Woman must throw
off her bondage to fashion, her submission to

[Column 3]
folly, and desire for frivolities. She must de-
feat the enticements of pleasure, the flatteries
and censures of men. It is a shame, even a
crime under divine laws for a woman to lace
herself into clothing, which makes a consump-
tive suicide of herself, and deteriorates the
physical being of her offspring. It is folly for
a woman who has leisure, to spend her hours
in idle gossip, in reading trashy novels, in fash-
ionable cold-hearted calls after the custom of
the world, instead of storing her mind with
useful knowledge, or instead of visiting the
sick, teaching the young, or assisting in the 
support of herself and others. 
	"All prejudices, all notions of propriety, tend
to genius and culture, a well disciplined mind
and a generous heart will look the Lion Opin-
ion in the eye and move on! He will quail be-
fore her and will assail her no more."
	May the day be hastened when we will not
only have our rights, but also know them, and
knowing dare maintain.
	The next speaker called upon was the
President of the Woman's Suffrage Association
of Ogden,
		      MRS. STANFORD
	She did not understand that the ladies of
this organization claimed equal political posi-
tions with men. They did not ask for the
offices which men only were fitted to fill. They
claimed the right of voting—the right to select
men who are to make the laws which both
sexes are required to obey. Women desired
that such men should be honorable, upright
and truth-loving. She contended that woman
ought to be acquainted with political as well as
other affairs, and that the world would be
better for her knowledge of and participation 
in them.
		HON. C. W. PENROSE
was called upon and he explained that the
right to vote and the right to hold office were 
not identical. For many years the women of
Utah exercised the former, but not the latter.
He was in favor of making no discrimination
against woman on the statute books. There
were offices which women might be able to fill
with ability and profit to themselves and the
public; there were others for which they were not
adapted. The good sense of the voters should
determine this. There were men who were
not fitted for office, but this did not debar them
from voting. He mentioned favorably a num-
ber of the leading ladies in the National Wo-
man Suffrage movement, and said he believed
they were inspired to work for the elevation of
their sex. There was one mistake they made,
and that was in demanding as a natural right
that which had been decided to be but a politi-
cal privilege. Citizenship and the suffrage
were distinct and separate. Every person born
in the United States is a citizen thereof. A
wife, daughter or widow of a citizen, even if of 
foreign birth, is a citizen. Citizenship comes
by birth or naturalization; the right to vote is
conferred by law. A woman has as much in-
herent right to vote as a man, but it is not in
either. The Legislature prescribes the quali-
fications of voters. If voting was an inherent
right, one would have a right to vote as soon as
born. The legal qualifications for voting
differed in different States and countries.
Another mistake made by some so called
“strong-minded” women suffragists was in be-
rating "the monster man" from whom they ex-
pected to obtain the elective franchise. This 
was not good policy, to say the least. A great 
obstacle in the way was the fact that most of 
the women were either opposed or indifferent
to woman suffrage. The work before the asso-
ciation was to spread information and convert
their own sex. When the women of the United
States unite to demand the elective franchise
they will get it. He considered a mistake was


[Column 1]
﻿made in trying for an amendment to the
national Constitution. The suffrage was a 
matter for each State to regulate and if one
State could be captured for woman suffrage
others would follow and eventually all would
come into line. Man and woman should be to-
gether in all things. The male and female ele-
ments were found in all nature and they were
so designed by the Creator in the beginning
and redeemed and exalted men and women
were to have dominion together for all the ages
of eternity. 
	HON. GEORGE Q. CANNON
having entered the building was requested to
address the meeting. He said: I take great
interest in every question that effects men and
women. I have always believed that if there
should be any qualifications for suffrage, sex
should not enter.  Women should have the
right to vote equal with men. I have seen
very many ignorant men exercise the right of
suffrage when they knew as little about the
questions involved as an animal, and at the
same time intelligent women were deprived of
that right. I think this a great injustice. Pro-
hibition is one of the issues of the times. The
question of intemperance, to whom does it ap-
peal most strongly, who is most interested?
The woman, naturally. It has a deeper inter-
est for woman than any one else. Woman's
voice in this and other affairs would doubtless
have a most excellent effect. I do not think
that because a woman was allowed to vote she
would necessarily be called into service in the
army or navy.
	There are those who argue this way, but I
think this is begging the question. I believe
that there are offices that woman could fill, and
many that she would not want to fill. For in-
stance, I do not imagine that a woman would
make a good constable to arrest men, or a
sheriff, to hang men. I believe the right of
suffrage would broaden the minds of the women
of this country. I have never seen any effects
in connection with woman suffrage to deplore.
The speaker referred to the good work per-
formed by able women for their sex and to the
voluntary defense of the people of Utah by
several notable ladies in Washington. He
closed by saying: I pray God to bless you in
this movement. Do not allow division or
jealousy to arise in your midst, but show to all
that you are laboring unitedly for the ad-
vancement of a great cause.
	MRS. NELLIE WEBBER.
	At the close of the present meeting an op-
portunity will be offered to all ladies who have 
not yet joined the Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion of Utah, to enroll their names with the
secretary.
	Fully believing that "in union is strength,"
we have associated ourselves with the National
Woman's Suffrage Association, so that we may
more effectively prosecute the aim and end we
have in view, namely, the enfranchisement of
woman and placing her upon a higher plane
politically than she occupies to-day. To be-
come an auxillary of the national association
we are required to pay a fee of 25 cents each.
For the first fifty enrolled members we are en-
titled to three delegates, and for each addi-
tional twenty-five members an additional dele-
gate. Our enrollment should be as large ss 
possible, because we not only want to show to
our eastern sisters that we are in real earnest
and have the cause of woman's political ad-
vancement at heart, but it gives us greater in-
fluence in the councils of the national associa-
tion, at the last meeting of which we had two
delegates to represent us, and I am pleased to 
say that our cause was most ably and satis-
factorily presented.
	For the benefit of the associations now being

[Column 2]
formed throughout the Territory, who may per-
chance adopt our present by-laws, I will say
that after having worked under them for three
months, we find that they need amending. This 
was under consideration at our last executive
session, and we hope soon to complete and pub-
lish an amended and more perfect set.
	In placing our initiation fee at 25 cents we
were laboring under a misunderstanding as to
the amount per member to be paid to the
national association. Now we learn that in-
stead of its being 25 per cent of our fee it is 25
cents per member, and as the matter now
stands our treasury is empty of funds. But
to increase the fee now would be an injustice to
incoming members, so it has been decided to
allow the present charge for membership to re-
main to the end of the year, when the fee will 
be increased. 
	Associations wishing to become auxiliary to
us can do so upon application and payment of
10 cents for each member enrolled by them.
	For the government of our meetings and ex-
ecutive sessions we have adopted "Roberts'
Rules of Order" and recommend them to all
new organizations. 
	Ladies' should take an interest in this matter
and aid us to place woman side by side politi-
cally with her husband and brother. Our
fathers contended that "taxation without repre-
sentation" was a wrong, and if it were so a hun-
dred years ago, it is no less so today. There
are many women in this Territory who pay
taxes and yet have no voice in the selection of 
public officers through whose hands this money 
is disbursed. I am satisfied that when women
hold the franchise universally we shall not only
have a better administration of public affairs,
but greater economy in all public expenditures;
and I therefore urge upon the ladies to come
forward at once and enroll their names in the
great cause for which we are struggling.
	A vote of thanks was given to the speakers
and the meeting was adjourned subject to the
call of the Secretary; to be published in the 
papers. Several ladies’ came forward and en-
rolled their names as members. The movement
is worthy the support of the women of Utah
and we hope to hear of branch associations all
over the Territory.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	
	The Queen of Greece is a clever painter.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton will spend the 
summer at Hampstead, Long Island, N. Y. 
	Julia Ward Howe's 70th birthday will be 
celebrated May, 27, in Boston. 
	Mrs. Olive Wright, of Colorado, has patented
a filter, which renders hard water soft, and
may be used on any kitchen stove.
	The Woman's News is now published in its 
own office, printed on its own type, managed,
controlled, and all the work done by women. 
	Mrs. Clara B. Colby and Mrs. Laura De
Force Gordon are in Washington Territory,
at work for woman suffrage.
	The Pennsylvania Senate has voted an ap-
propriation of $10,000 to the Woman's Hospi-
tal. 
	On April 25, the Woman's Press Associa-
tion of Washington, paid their respects to Mrs.
Harrison. 
	The Women's Penny Paper, of London, has
begun the publication of a serial story by 
Mabel Collins, dealing with a mother's right to 
her child, and entitled "A Mother's freedom:"
	Two hundred girls are now being educated
in the medical schools of India, and Madras

[Column 2]
has already supplied six fully qualified lady 
doctors for the northern part of the country.
	Among the literary women who favor crema-
tion are Grace Greenwood, Ella Wheeler
Wilcox, Marietta Holley (Josiah Allen's wife)
Rose Terry Cooke, Kate Field, Cella Thaxter'
and Rebecca Harding Davis.
	Governor Hovey, of Indiana, recently ap-
proved of the Commissions of Willametta 
Mench, Minnie Young, Minnie Mobley and 
Anna Gilgour as Notaries Public for the town 
of Columbus, Ind. 
	At Galesburg, Ill., the Council meeting was 
attended by women, ministers and teachers of 
the public schools.  Petitions were presented 
by Knox and Lombard Colleges, and speeches
were made by women urging the Council not 
to grant dramshop licenses. 
	The first annual meeting of the Association
for the Advancement of Household Science
was held in the Chapel of Pardue Univer-
sity, LaFayette, Indiana, on the evenings of 
May 14th and 15th, 1889.  The object of the 
Association is to consider advanced methods of 
housekeeping and the improvement of the
home.
	The petition of John G. Whittier, Mary A. 
Livermore, William Lloyd Garrison, Julia 
Ward Howe, Lucy Stone, Henry B. Black-
well and others for the incorporation of the 
Massachusetts Woman Suffrage Association,
was admitted in the Massachusetts Legisla-
ture, May 1, under a suspension of the rules 
moved by Mr. McCall of Winchester. 
	Women are taught that their highest duty 
is to marry and bear children, yet laws are
framed to punish its fulfillment as a crime.
The minister of railways in Belgium has just 
issued an edict that all married women who 
are mothers, even if their children are grown
up, shall resign their posts in the telegraph
service.—Woman's Standard.
	Miss A. A. Crisp, a professional nurse, in 
charge of a hospital in New Zealand, and who 
had received royal decorations for her service 
in South Africa, Egypt and Turkey, was 
married recently to one of the doctors of the 
hospital, and wore as her wedding costume the 
uniform of her profession.  Nineteen nurses
also in uniform were her bridesmaids. 
	The New England Women's Press Associa-
tion held a business meeting last Wednesday at 
the Parker House, in Boston, the president,
Mrs. Sallie Joy White, in the chair.  Mrs. M.
Elizabeth Green, editor of the Quincy (Mass.)
Patriot, and Miss Louise Imogen Guiney, were 
elected members.  A "high tea" will be served 
to members and friends at the Parker House 
at the next meeting.
	It is late to mention the fact, but one so note-
worthy should not be forgotten, that it was a 
notable gathering of women which took place
in New York in March, when sixty delegates 
representing various women's clubs throughout 
the country, responded to the invitation of 
"Sorosis" to meet with it and form a Confedera-
tion of Woman's Clubs.  Mrs. May Wright 
Sewall spoke on the occasion, of the National 
Council of Women.  There is something 
significant in the present tendency of progres-
sive women, to draw closer together, through 
co-operative work and sympathy unions,
unions within unions, a concentrated yet ever 
widening circle of circles, which can scarcely 
fail to be a strong bulwark of civilization, and 
at the same time moving onward, like a solid 
phalanx, which few obsticles can withstand.—
Woman's News.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Dear Sister—Last Sunday morning, the 7th inst.,
Sister Emma P. Toone died at her residence in this ward.
For the past six months her health has been very delicate,
but until the last five weeks she has not been wholly con-
fined to her bed; although at times during her illness, her
sufferings have been very intense, yet the cause of her de-
mise may be truthfully styled, General Debility.  In 
labors of love and devotion to the work of salvation for
mankind, her spirit was still willing, but the fleshy taber-
nacle was worn out.  Sister Toone would have been
seventy years old, had she lived until the 26th inst. Ever
since the organization of the Relief Society in 1868,
Sister Toone, until her death, has been a most efficient
and faithful laborer as a Teacher, and for many years has
presided over the quorum of teachers in the 20th ward
branch of the society.  For ten years she has also labored
with indefatigable zeal and most loving tenderness for the 
welfare of the children in the ward in the capacity of the
President of the Primary.
	At her funeral, held in the ward meeting house,
and very largely attended, several of the brethren testified
of the purity of her life, and the wisdom and energy which
characterized all her works; faithful in all things as
a wife and mother, and also as a benefactor to humanity in
the truest sense of the word.  Among the speakers were
Bishop John Sharp, President Francis, of Morgan Stake
and Bishop George Romney, who presided at the funeral.
	For several years Sister Toone's birthday has been cele
brated by many of her friends, who would congregat
about her, with tokens of loving appreciation and es-
teem on that anniversary.
	The following lines were written for and presented to
her on one of those occasions, it being her sixty-third
birthday.

			TO SISTER EMMA P. TOONE.

	Only the ones who are faithful in sorrow,
		Ever can gain the position you hold;
	Earth's richest mines could not purchase or borrow
		Thy fadeless honors, thy treasures untold.

	Here are thy children, and grand children round thee
		T call thee their savior, and say thou art blest;
	Here too, are ties which the Gospel hath found thee,
		Affection and friendship the purest and best.

	Better than all is the sweet, Holy Spirit,
		Which the great Father, alone, can bestow,
	Thou hast sought, thou hast welcomed, and right-
		fully bear it,
	Tenderly teaching thee which way to go.

	Thon hast been steadfast, and nothing could move
		thee;
		Through keenest sorrow thy portion hath been,
	Father hath chastened thee, only to prove thee,
		Cleansing thy soul from all darkness and sin.

	Patient and contrite, submissive and humble
		Doing for others, to bless and to cheer.
	Those who walk constantly thus, will not stumble;
		Dear faithful one, thou hast nothing to fear.

	Over thy sorrows, long buried, yet tearfully,
		Hearts full of sympathy lovingly yearn;
	E'en while we wish for this birthday most cheefully,
		Many a grateful and blessed return.

	If you are happy and honored in seeing,
		Each smiling face which this greeting extends,
	We, too, are honored and happy in being
		Worthy to stand as your sisters and friends.

	Still looking forth, for a brighter tomorrow,
		Which the grand future will shortly unfold—
	Only the ones who are faithful in sorrow,
		Ever can gain the position you hold.

	In the glad morn of the First Resurrection,
		In beauty's freshness, oh, glorious boon;
	Greeted by children, by friends and connections,
		'Mong the sanctified faithful will stand
			Sister Toone.

	The words of this poem express some of the sentiments
given by the brethren who spoke at the funeral, and will
meet a response from all hearts who have known the sub-
ject of this sketch.  Sister Toone was a native of Here-
fordshire, and embraced the Gospel in Warwickshire,
England, in December, 1849.
					LULA GREENE RICHARDS.


[Column 1]﻿	 
			OBITUARIES.

	Died Feb. 27th, 1889, at her residence at St. Charles,
Bear Lake County; Sarah Ingersol Holmes. Deceased
was born Sept., 16th, 1816, at Gloucester, Essex County,
Mass., her father’s name was Isaac Harvey, mother’s name
Dorcas Curtice.
	Sister Holmes crossed the plains in 1853 and went
through to California, stayed there one year then went back
East where she stayed till 1862; in that year she came back
to the Valley and settled at Farmington, Davis County,
She was well known as the Stake President of the Relief
Society of Davis Stake. She was the president of the
Relief Society of Farmington for a number of years pre-
vious. Since her residence at St. Charles, she has been
connected with the Relief Society and Primary of that
Stake, 
	Sister Holmes retained her faculties, until the last, her
son Brother Leonard Floyd, of St. Charles brought her
remains, according to her own request, to be buried be-
side those of her husband in the cemetery of Farmington.
The funeral services were held at the meeting house which
was crowded with her friends, President W. R. Smith,
Anson Call, Bishop Secrist, Elder J. T. Smith, Sisters
Mary S. Clark, Hortensia Leonard and Aurelia Rogers
made remarks on the life and conduct of the deceased.
	She was one of the noblest of women, of her it might be
said "Faithful and true in all things” she lived and died a
saint in the hope of a part in the first resurection. 
	 									COM.

	Died, at Vermillion, Sevier Co., U. T., March 7th, 1889,
Augusta Amelia, beloved wife of Niels Anderson.
	She was born July 3rd, 1845, in Sweden. Was baptized
into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints July
30th, 1867, emigrated to Utah in 1865. She married Niels
Anderson Feb., 17th, 1866, entering into the principle of
Celestial Marriage. She was a firm believer and advocate
of all the principles pertaining to the New and Everlasting
Covenant. She held the office of President of the Y. L. M.
I. A., of this ward, until compelled by ill-health to resign.
Since the organization of the Relief Society she has been
an active member, and her many acts of kindness have en-
deared her to all.	
	She leaves an aged husband and six children besides
numerous relatives and friends to mourn her departure.
	 			PAULINE L. DASTRUP, Sec., R. S.
	Vermillion, April 17th, 1889.

	We feel it our duty to acquaint you with the death of
two of our beloved sisters, here in Monroe. Sister Mary
Griffiths, wife of David Griffiths, died March 1st, of
punemonia at this place.
	She was born at Little Lever Lancashire, England, Feb.
9, 1811. She leaves a husband, two sons, and two
daughters, and several grand children to mourn her loss.
	Sister Griffiths has been a faithful member of the Relief
Society since its organization: she was also faithful in all
the duties of a true Latter-day Saint, and rejoiced in the 
enjoyment of the blessings of the Gospel of Jesus Christ,
always trying to do right, and to be humble before the
Lord.
	She has done some work in the Temple, and felt to
praise God for His goodness and mercy. She has also
fulfilled a glorious mission among our sisters, and will long
be remembered by many.

	At Monroe, March 29th, '89, Sister Charlotte Doxford
born April 10, 1813, County of Durham, England. She
was the wife of Joseph F. Doxford. Sister Doxford's last
sickness was dropsy, and for upwards of three months be-
fore her death, she has suffered at times quite severely, yet 
always trusting in the Lord, and depending upon his
goodness and mercy. She has been a true and faithful
mother in Israel, and leaves a husband, two sons and two
daughters, and many grand children to mourn her loss.
	She has gone through many of the hardships encountered
in settling new countries, but was always ready to do all she
could wherever her help was required. She selected the
hymns to be sung at her funeral, which were sung ac-
cording to her request.
	The funeral services of both these sisters, were held at
the meeting house, where the sisters of the Relief Society
had draped the stand and arch over the coffin with white,
and had flowers suitable for such solemn occasions.

		May they rest in peace until the resurrection, 
		When all the faithful will receive their reward.

	Our Relief Society is in a prosperous condition; the
sisters are taking quite an interest in our monthly testimony

[Column 2]
meetings. We have also started weekly meetings again;
they are very well attended. Our teachers are alive to
their duties. 
		Respectfully your sisters in the Gospel, 
				CLARINDA WASHBURN, President.
				MARY SWINDLE, Secretary.


Training School for Nurses
	On the first of June, the Second Term of Dr.
Hughes’ Training School for Nurses begins, a class
of twelve (12) students completing their first term of
three months on the fourth of May. This is the
first Training School for Nurses established in
Utah, and the instruction given embraces the best
methods of teaching of the Eastern Schools, whose
systems have been thoroughly investigated by the
teacher. The purpose of this school is to give a 
wider knowledge of waiting upon the sick, and all
the branches pertaining to nursing will be thorough-
ly discussed in the successive terms. The second
term will be held in Dr. Hughes’ new residence, on
First West Street. Students desiring to enter, should
make application as early as possible, so that ar-
rangements can be made for securing text books.
	TUITION,	-	-	-	$25.00
	Special arrangements can be made for Obstetrical 
teaching.  Address:
			M. P.  Hughes,
P.O. Box 575. 				Salt Lake City, Utah.

SCAMMELL’S
Universal Treasure House
Of Useful Knowledge
Should be purchased by all who wish a
complete work on practical information for
every day use.
	Earnest workers wanted to canvass for it by
the general agent.
			H. A. Hess,
				123 First East Street,
						Salt Lake City.

R. K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBROIDERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:  
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.

