VOL. 17.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 15, 1888.			NO. 6.


SHADOWS AND WHISPERINGS.

A faint, soft shadow flits across my mind,
	And thrills me with a gentle tenderness;
Wak'ning a memory only half-defined,
	A trace, perchance, of vanished happiness;
I try to call it up, but cannot tell, 
And yet 'tis something, I have known full well.

My thoughts go back to places where I've strolled,
	And gaze into the faces known in youth, 
And wander round the scenes so dear of old,
	To seek this vision out, and find its truth;
Alas, I search in vain, each much loved spot, 
It still eludes me, still I find it not. 

It often cheers me in my saddest hours,
	And if in doubt my feelings wildly stray, 
I feel most strongly then, its charmed powers, 
	Just like an angel presence round my way; 
Gently it comes, and whispers "peace be still,"
O, doubting heart, abide "the Father's will."

Oh, bliss of heaven on earth, we may not know, 
	For dusky fall the shadows of to-morrow;
Whate'er the talisman, for sin or woe, 
	Life's cup is tarnished with a silent sorrow, 
But we shall know when this poor life is past, 
The secret of the shadows that are cast. 

I sometimes think I must have lived before, 
	In a much brighter, fairer world than this;
That I have stepped from that enchanted shore,
	As though I woke from out a dream of bliss, 
Where soft hand lingered in a fond caress
Upon my head, to soothe me and to bless, 

As if a shadowing of recompense 
	Had followed me from our that home afar, 
For in my heart remains a partial sense
	Of a bright realm with golden "gates ajar,"
And through the portals of the glorious way
Perhaps there streams to earth a heavenly ray

'Tis strange these dim, mysterious shadowings, 
	Should seem to mock us, with half-confidence;
Puzzling us with their distant whisperings, 
	The music of an unknown utterance, 
That yearning, human hearts must ever feel, 
Longong for knowledge, that will all reveal. 
			E. B. Wells				E.B.W.
October 17, 1879.


[Column 1]
	SALT LAKE STAKE ACADEMY.
	A circular of the Salt Lake Stake Academy,
recently issued by the officers of the institution,
sets forth clearly the object in view in its
establishment, as also the methods and course
of instruction, and the basis and regulation of
its management, so plainly, that no one need
be misled as to its facilities and advantages.
It is now two years since the Academy was
opened, and there has been an opportunity for
those interested to understand what has been
done, and what good is likely to result in the
near future. It must be apparent to the
Latter-day Saints, that there is a necessity for
more definite religious instruction for the
children than they were formerly in the habit
of receiving; and they should certainly be as
zealous in this respect as the Roman Catholics,
who are so diligent and watchful over the little
ones entrusted to their care. Believing as
this people do, it seeing very strange that there
should be so much neglect in the religious
training of the youth of Zion. But there has
been quite an awakening on the subject, and
the outlook is hopeful, that more and better
opportunities for all, will ere long, render it

[Column 2]
easy for the children to avail themselves of
this class of instruction, which has, in the past,
been confined to a few.
	The Academy receives students of both
sexes on equal principles, and they are advised
not to procure text-books, until they ascertain
the grade to which their qualifications assign
them.
	The officers of the Stake Board of Educa-
tion, under the auspices of which the Academy
is founded, are: Angus M. Cannon, President;
W. B. Dougall, Secretary; John Nicholson,
Elias Morris, James Watson, Francis Cope,
and W. A. Rossiter, Treasurer.
	The Faculty: James E. Talmage, Principal,
Academic Department, Natural and Physical
Science and Phonography; Willard Done,
Intermediate Department, Elocution and Pen-
manship; Joseph Nelson, Preparatory Depart-
ment and Mathematics; Willard Croxall, As-
sistant; Dr. Mattie P. Hughes, Lady Superin-
tendent. 
	The circular gives quite explicit information
regarding what is taught, what books are to
be used, and so forth. The exercises of the
day, both at the opening and closing, will be
with singing and prayer. Discipline in refer-
ence to conduct will be such as no one can ob-
ject to. "Profanity and obscenity in any form
is strictly forbidden;" "the use of tobacco and
strong drink is not allowed,” and there are
other positive regulations similar in character
and spirit. The girls will be under the special
charge of the lady superintendent. 
	There will be, in connection with the school,
what is called “The Field Club,” composed of
students of the scientific classes and others who
will visit places of importance for practical
study, make excursions, and so forth. “The
Student's Society” will be another organiza-
tion to afford an acquaintance with parliamen-
tary usages, and for practice in public exercises.
Officers will comprise a Chairman, a Secretary
and a Recording Secretary, to be chosen from
the students of the Academic Department.
Evening meetings held weekly, lectures, and
musical and literary exercises given. The
Latter-day  Saints will, without doubt, use
their best endeavors to maintain and sustain a
school of learning such as this Academy must
be if the intentions are carried out in the let-
ter and spirit thereof.  
	Such institutions in Zion will assuredly
check the growth of that tendency to infidelity,
that seems to have settled like a cloud over
the minds of many, who have been striving
for knowledge, without first becoming rooted
and grounded in the faith of the Gospel of
Jesus Christ.
	The Brigham Young Academy at Provo,
and the Brigham Young College at Logan
were founded upon the same principles as this,
viz.: that the doctrines and principles of the
Church should be taught as the foundation of
all science, all knowledge and all truth, in-
stead of, as in the institutions of learning
 generally, everything else first and religion
secondary. When schools of this kind shall be
established in every Stake of Zion, the people
may look forward to a radical change for the
better in other respects.
 	The Executive Committee of the Stake
Board of Education consists of Angus M. Can-
non, W. B. Dougall and W. A. Rossiter.
	The Academy will commence its first term
in the Social Hall in this city, September 3rd,
1888.—ED.


TO ONE FAR AWAY.

DEAR HOMESPUN:
	I have been looking in vain the last few
weeks for something from you in your distant
home. Many times, while enjoying your vivid
pen pictures of sea, sky and land, I have felt
the impulse to write and thank you for the
pleasure your words were giving me; but press-
ing duties, procrastination and other excuses
have delayed my oft-repeated determination. 
But now that your pen has been idle for some
time, I have thought much of you, and shall
address you a few lines through our brave little
EXPONENT.
	You may wonder if we at home imagine you
have nought else to do in that lazy, tropical
clime, but sit under the fragrant shade of
orange trees, or on the glinting sea shore, and
while listening to the music of the waves,
dream tranquil dreams and write epistles for
our edification. I know too well, that in that
land, where even nature inclines one to idleness,
and the indolent though graceful movements of
the dusky people around you, betray the inertia
the climate produces, yet a mother's hands, and
she the wife of a Laie missionary, must not be
idle- Well I know the routine of the days
and weeks, which, though lovely and monoton-
ous, are ever busy. I often picture you in
your Island home, sitting on the green sward
in front of your little white cottage (by the
way, do you not wish that everlasting green
would sometimes change, that you might see it
covered with a white mantle of beautiful snow?)
Yes I fancy you there talking to and teaching
the little dark skinned urchins, and probably
those who have reached maturity, standing with
wonder-opened eyes and mouths, or, more likely,
lying flat on their stomachs, gazing with wor-
shipful admiration at your own little ones,
whose sweet white faces and delicate forms are
rendered still more beautiful by contrast; or
perhaps the grateful shades of evening are ap-
proaching, and the laborers are returning from
the cane fields and mill; and are calling to give
you Aloha, and to crave your substantial sym-
pathy in their "Pilikia."
	And now comes a picture of the quiet, calm
Sabbath morning. Oh, how excessively calm!
Slowly, dreamily the natives wend their way to
church, in holiday dress, in all its starchy
glory. You wonder as much at the almost
faultless taste of one dress, adorned with such 
matchless blossoms, as you do at the incongru-
ous mingling of color and make of another.
When the services, conducted in the native
language (merely an indistinguishable chain of
words at first, but now quite readily under-
stood), are concluded you go through the usual
and general handshaking, and, finally, when the
day has been spent as best it may, and the moon is
glorious in her beauty, while the continuous
voice of the waves seems to intensify the pre-
vailing stillness, you, with a few friends, meet
at the mansion house, and there enjoy your ex-
clusive worship, which is the nearest approach
you have to home-life in the mountains, of
which you would much rather I would tell
you, but your writings have so often brought
these pictures to my mind, that I cannot re-
frain disclosing the responsive chord you have
touched in my heart and memory.
	Time is passing, and your Sandwich Island
life will soon be almost like a dream of the
past, fraught with the brightest and saddest


of memories, but the influence of your work
and example will remain a beautiful reality, 
bringing you such peace and content, that only
those can experience who have been purified
by suffering and trial.
	You and I may know each other better,
someday, and, I trust, pass pleasant hours to-
gether; until then, believe me to be,
			Your friend,
						AUNT POLLY.
	Salt Lake City, Aug 10. 1888.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.
		MILLVILLE P. A.
	Primary annual meeting of Millville, held June
5th, 1888. Opened with singing. Prayer by
Elder J. King. Singing. Minutes of last
annual meeting read and approved; also the
annual reports. Programme: Recitation,
Ephraim Jassop; Recitation, Lula Holt; song,
Florence Henrie. Acting Counselor, Emma
Pike, made excellent and encouraging remarks;
Dialogue, Eliza Jensen and company; Recita-
tion, Leonard Pitkin; Recitation, Sylvia Yates.
Elder J. Dowdle made some very interesting
and appropriate remarks; song. Hannah
Dowdle, Recitation, Edna Hulse; the officers
were re-elected; Song, Edith V. Gamble. Sister
M. A. Dowdle occupied a short time in ad-
dressing the children upon politeness and the
use of good language; also praised them for
rendering the programme so well. Questions
and Answers on Good Manners were asked by
the Farmer's Ward; Song, Mary Humphrey;
Dialogue, by a company of little girls; Song,
Mary Whitney.
	Sister E. L. Crowther, of Logan Ward, said
this was the first time she had met with the
children of Millville. "We should be orderly,
and obedient to our parents and President,
and the Lord will bless us, for He loves little
children." Spoke upon the exercise of faith
in God.
	A Recitation, by Hattie Cartwell; Recitation,
Allie Yates. Stake President, Jane E. Molen,
spoke upon order; said we should not let the
children run in and out, but be orderly; we
should be kind to each other, and teach the
children to have faith in God. Recitation,
Sammy P. Dowdle.
	Prest. Geo. O. Pitkin said that the brightest
young men that took part in the Young Men's
Conference, belonged to the Primary a few
years ago, and expressed himself greatly
pleased with the exercises.
	Prest. Sarah Gamble felt like the Lord had
been with us; there would be a children's
dancing party in the afternoon. Benediction
by Bishop Molen.
				EVA GAMBLE, Secretary.

		  PROVIDENCE P. A.
	Meeting held June 19th, 1888, at 10 a.m.
Prest. R. Traber presided. Singing. Prayer
by Bishop N. Hansen. Singing. Roll called.
Minutes of previous annual meeting read and
accepted.
	A recitation was given by Amy Rammell;
Mary and Emma Bowman sang a song; Recita-
tion, Walter Madsen
	Sister Pike explained that Sister Molen was
detained on account of sickness, and made an
opening address, which was full of good
things.
	Annie Crowther and Company sang a song;
a card exercise was then rendered by the Prim-
ary, entitled, "Good Manners; Lula Hammond
read an essay, "Honor Thy Father and Thy
Mother."
	Sister Crowther occupied a few minutes;
thought we should do unto others as we wish
to be done by, if we would all be happy. A
recitation, Hopkin Matthews.
	Bishop N. Hansen was pleased with the

[column 2]
pieces that had been rendered by the children.
He thought the children respected their Presi-
dent very much.
	Sister Gamble said the children knew the
Lord loved them, and that He was with them
continually. Asked the Lord to bless us.
	Bro. Hyrum Campbell said a great improve-
ment had been made in order.
	Sister Jones said, "If any little girl or boy
should do wrong, they should tell their mamma,
and ask her to forgive them," and said many
other good things.
	Prest. R. Traber addressed the children a
short time. Asked the Lord to bless us.
	Singing, "Merry, Merry Children." Bene-
diction by Joan Marler.
	Afternoon exercises: President R. Traber
presided. Singing, "Beautiful Zion." Prayer
by Sister Pike. Singing, "Hope of Israel."
Report of the Association was read. A song
was then sung by Alice Fout and Joan John-
son; Diana and Diantha Hammond, a dialogue;
Annie Lane, instrumental music. Sister C.
Theurer made good remarks. William Marler,
a recitation; Alice Bullock read a selection,
"Honor to Parents;" Annie and Sarah Marler,
a song.
	Mary A. Tibbits said she had labored in the
Primary five years, and never had a better
time since. Exhorted all to attend Primary.
Milton Hammond gave a recitation; Alice
Quible, a song.
	Sister Crowther gave a brief address, touch-
ing on many useful matters.
	Bishop Hansen told the children never to
get tired of attending Primary.
	Lula Hammond addressed the children a
short time. Asked the Lord to bless us.
	Rachel Theurer, Eliza J. Tibbits and Bertha
Zollinger were honorably released as Counselors
and Treasurer. Rosalia Haderli and Bertha
Zollinger were then voted in as Counselors, and
Mary Gibbs as Treasurer. Sister Pike said the 
officers of the Primary were: Rosina Traber,
President; Rosalia Haderli and Bertha Zollin-
ger, Counselors; Mary Zollinger, Secretary;
Lula Hammond, Ass't Secretary; Mary Gibbs,
Treasurer.
	Sister Pike said we should pray for our
President, and be very kind to our fathers and
mothers. Said she had been looking at one
little boy who could not hear or speak, and we
should be very kind to him. Said they called
the Primary Association of one ward in Logan
together to pray for the Bishop's wife, and im-
mediately after they had prayed she took a
turn for the better.
	Prest. R. Traber arose, and said she hoped
the children would remember what they had
heard and put it into practice: There would
be a Fair after the meeting, on the stage.
Thanked the brethren and sisters who had
come to visit us.
	Singing, "I'll strive while young to tune my
voice." Benediction by Robert Naef.
			LULA HAMMOND, Ass't Sec.

		  UINTAH STAKE P. A.
	The conference of the Uintah Stake Primary
Association convened in the Stake House, on
Saturday morning, May 5th, 1888. Present
on the stand: Sisters Abigail Oaks, Elizabeth
Bingham and Ann Hacking, of the Stake
Presidency, the presidents of the different
ward Associations, and their counselors, also a
fair representation of the Priesthood of the
Stake.
	Although a cold, wet, rainy day, there was a
good attendance, and the programme was ren-
dered in a most enjoyable manner.
	Programme, morning session: Singing,
"Oh, come children, come," by all the Associa-
tions. Opening prayer by James O'Neil. A
boy of the 4th Ward Association sang a song;
"Children's Song," by all the Associations;
Song, entitled, "Welcome," by Cora and Eddie

[column 3]
Wardle, 4th Ward; Recitation, Stephen Taylor,
Dry Fork Association; Instrumental Music,
Mrs. Griffin; Song, seven little girls, Merrill's
Ward; Recitation, Willie Southam, Riverdale
Ward, entitled, "The Exile's Family;" Song,
"Lucy Grey," by Earnest Giles, Mill Ward;
Dialogue, by little boys, 1st Ward; Ten Com-
mandments, by Elizabeth O'Niel, 4th Ward;
Song, with organ accompaniment, entitled,
"Parents don't Visit the School," by the little
Hacking children; Recitation, Hannah Jenkins,
4th Ward; Song, Stella Colton, Mill Ward;
Song by all the Associations present, entitled,
"In our Lovely Deseret." Benediction by
Joseph Carroll, a boy of the Mill Ward Asso-
ciation.
	Programme, afternoon session: Song en-
titled, "Joseph Smith's First Prayer,"
by all the Associations. Prayer by Albert
Bird, a boy of Merrill Ward. A song
on page 20, entitled, "I'll be a Little Mormon,"
by all the children present. Primary Address,
Tommy Hicks, Mill Ward; Recitation, Alice
Reynolds, Mill Ward. entitled, "Awake! Ye
Saints of God! Awake!" Dialogue, James
O'Neil and Frank Alplanalp, 4th Ward; Reci-
tation, Mary Hall, Dry Fort Ward; Instrumen-
tal Music, Mrs. Griffin; Recitation, Reeves
Bird, Merrill Ward; Dialogue, Almira Mecham
and Company, Riverdale Association; Recita-
tion, Albert Caldwell, Merrill Ward; Recitation,
Carrie Neilson, Mountain Dell Association;
Song by the little girls of 1st Ward Associa-
tion; Dialogue, two little boys of Merrill
Ward; Recitation, Leah Glines, Mill Ward,
Song, "Lord's Prayer," Effie Howard, 1st
Ward; Recitation, Myrtle Wamsley, 2nd Ward;
Instrumental Music, Mrs. Griffin; a Cantata by
the girls of Millville Ward Association, Mrs.
Griffin leading and accompanying them on the
organ; Song by all the children present, en-
titled, "Oh, my Father, Thou that dwellest."
Benediction by Marcellus Pope. 1st Ward.
Elder Thomas Bingham, Jr., of Mill Ward led
the singing.
	Among the most notable of the foregoing
exercises was a song, "Welcome," by Cora and
Edie Wardle, of the 4th Ward, with an organ
accompaniment by Mrs. Griffin; also a recita-
tion by a little girl 4 years of age—Elizabeth
O'Niel—of the same ward, the ten command-
ments; a song and dance by a little boy three
years old, Earnest Glines, of Mill Ward; also
a poem by Sister E. R. Snow, was recited by
Alice Reynolds, a little girl of the same ward;
a recitation by Reeves Bird, a small boy six
years of age, on Wisdom and Politeness, which
he illustrated by gesture in a most pleasing
manner; also a dialogue by the two little Pack-
ard boys of the same ward; this was rendered
in a most happy style; Willie South m, of
Riverdale Ward, recited "The Exile's Family,"
which was quite touching;" Effie Howard, a
little girl of the 1st Ward, sang the "Lord's
Prayer" very sweetly, and two little girls of
Dry Fork—Mary Hall and Carrie Neilson—
recited excellently; in fact all did their parts
well, but it would occupy too much time to
mention them separately, these specially men-
tioned being among the smallest children.
	The reports from the different Associations
were dispersed through the programme, all
wards reporting. The reports were encourag-
ing, and tended to show, that although this
was the first P. A. Conference held in this
Stake of Zion, we were in a fair way to stand
side by side with other Stakes in this respect.
The day passed quickly and pleasantly, and
with the exception of a few mistakes in the
programme, which were rectified, everything
was satisfactory.
	Prest. Oaks thanked all present for their
kind attention and assistance, and adjourned
the conference until Sept. 1st, 1888.
				ABIGAIL OAKS, Prest.,
				CAROLINE STRINGHAM, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


INDIRECTION. 

Fair are the flowers and the children, but their subtle sug-
	gestion is fairer; 
Rare is the rose burst of dawn, but the secret that clasps it 
	is rarer. 

Sweet the exultance of song, but the strain that precedes it 
	is sweeter,
And never was poem yet writ, but the meaning out-mastered
	the metre. 

Never a daisy that grows, but a mystery guideth the grow-
	ing, 
Never a river that flows, but a majesty sceptres the flow-
	ing. 

Never a Shakespeare that soar'd, but a stronger than he
	did enfold him. 
Nor ever a prophet foretells, but a mightier seer hath fore-
	told him. 

Back of the canvas that throbs, the painter is hinted and 
	hidden, 
Into the statue that breathes, the soul of the sculptor is 
	bidden. 

Under the joy that is felt lie the infinite issues of feeling, 
Crowning the glory revealed, is the glory that crowns the
	revealing. 

Great are the symbols of being, but that which is symboled
	is greater;
Vast the create and beheld, but vaster the inward creator. 

Back of the sound broods the silence, back of the gift
	stands the giving;
Back of the hand that receives, thrill the sensitive nerves of
	receiving.

Space is as nothing to spirit, the deed is outdone by the
	doing;
The heart of the wooer is warm, but warmer the heart of 
	the wooing. 

And up from the pits where these shiver, and up from the
	heights where those shine, 
Twin voices and shadows swim starward, and the essence
	of life is divine. 
								RICHARD REALF.


[Column 1]
﻿EDITORIAL NOTES.
WE have on hand considerable matter for
the paper, that has to be laid over for want of
space. In our next issue we shall publish
“The Women of Utah,” Part IV, “Women in
Medicine;” also the poem,“The Cross of Light,”
and some other R. S. Y. L. and P. A. reports, 
Correspondence, etc. 
	THE conference of the Relief Society of this
Stake will be held in the 14th Ward Assembly
Rooms, on Thursday, September 13th, and a
punctual attendance of presidents and officers
is earnestly desired. On Friday, the 14th, the
Y. L. M. I. A. of this Stake will hold confer-
ence, and on Saturday, the 15th, the Primary
Associations will assemble in the Assembly
Hall for their conference. 
	THE secretaries of the Salt Lake Stake
Relief Society are hereby officially notified
to send in their semi-annual reports, so that
the Stake Secretary may receive them as early
as the 25th of this month (August). Direct
the reports to the Office of the WOMAN’S EX-
PONENT, as it will possibly avoid delay. The
reports are wanted for the Salt Lake
Conference, on the 1st and 2nd of September.
By order of the President of the Relief Society
of the Salt Lake Stake, M. Isabella Horne. 
	ON Tuesday, the 14th inst., a party of the
friends of Sister Elizabeth Howard drove out
to her old home in Cottonwood to give her a
“surprise,” and it was indeed a genuine one;
she had not an inkling of the fact, though she
had noticed extra preparations going on in the
grove just by, but was told there was to be a
meeting held there on the 15th, which was
true, also. Carriage after carriage drove up,

[Column 2}
until, finally, her daughter, Sister Brockbank,
thought it time to send for her mother, who
was away, by the suggestion of interested 
parties. Some of those who assembled on the
occasion had not been there for many years,
and others had never visited there, though it
used to be a very popular resort in days gone
by. The party gathered together in the grove,
which, by the by, is a very pleasant place for a
picnic. Here a very long table or tables were
set with fine linen, china, glassware and silver,
as well as flowers, and the guests brought all man-
ner of good things in their lunch baskets, until
the table fairly “groaned with the weight of the
feast.” Meantime, every one was congratulat-
ing Sister Howard and sympathizing with her,
too, for she is suffering with a sprained ankle,
and old friends were greeting each other and
conversing on topics of social and general in-
terest, and all was going on swimmingly for a
time; the guests, fifty or more, were seated at
the long table under the shade of the great tall
poplars, that kept sighing and whispering over-
head, seemingly unconscious of the eating and
drinking and conversation of the happy party.
Apostle F. D. Richards was seated at the head
of the table, and pronounced the blessing on
the food. At the extreme end of the table
from him, was President Angus M. Cannon,
and Elder Joseph Horne. Scattered along
were a few men, but the company was mostly
composed of ladies, and a very jovial company
they were. Sister Howard seemed to enjoy
the affair very much, but behold a change
—just when partaking of ice cream, which had
been made expressly for the occasion, and while
the trees were only sighing in a gentle breeze—
all at once a dark cloud came up and the wind
blew fiercely, dust came in clouds, and the rain
began to fall; the guests beat a hasty retreat
from the grove to the shelter of the house, and
immediately horses were brought out, water-
proofs were in demand, and the pleasure-seekers
began driving homeward, the rain pouring,
lightning flashing, thunder crashing, but all
reached home safely. Thus ended our surprise,
and we wondered, after all, which was the most
surprised, the hostess, or the guests that were
caught in the storm. Joking aside, the How-
ard grove at Cottonwood is a charming place
for a picnic.


RETURN HOME.

	On the 12th of May ult., Sister M. Isabella
Horne, of this city, left home on a visit to her
native land. She was accompanied by one of
her sons, and also by her sister, Mrs. Harriet
Ellis, of Bountiful. They sailed from New
York, after a pleasant overland trip, on the
steamer Circassia. The voyage was a delight-
ful one, and Sister Horne tells us she met a
number of agreeable people, with whom she
conversed, en route, on the condition of this
people and their principles of belief.
	The steamship arrived in Glasgow on the 30th,
having been eleven days and four hours at sea.
At Glasgow they visited the Grand Exposition
open there, and afterwards went to Edinboro,
where they visited places of interest, then on
to Liverpool. Mrs. Horne speaks of her voyage
up the Clyde as a most charming experience.
From Liverpool Mrs. Horne went to Notting-
ham, where she attended meetings of the
Saints, and had the privilege of addressing
them, both in the general meetings of the Saints
and in the meetings of the Relief Society.
After visiting Nottingham, she went on to
London, and shortly, from there to Rainham,
in Kent, her native place. Here, also, she had
the privilege of speaking in the meetings of
the Latter-day Saints, and also in Chatham in
the same county. But her principal business
there, was gathering up the genealogy of her
family, which kept her very busy, and took her
to all parts of the county; consequently she


remained in Kent some weeks, spent very
pleasantly and profitably. Then she went back
to London, where she visited the chief points
of attraction, and spoke publicly in the meet-
ings of the White Chapel Branch, and also
the North London Branch.
	While in London, Mrs. Horne called at the
office of the English Woman’s Review, where
she met and conversed with Miss Lydia Becker,
one of the leading suffrage women of England,
and the Editor of the Woman's Suffrage
Journal, Manchester; also met her Secretary.
Of this interview we shall have more to say
hereafter. Mrs. Horne visited the Woman’s
Hospital in London, and was most kindly re-
ceived by the House Physician.
	Leaving London, Mrs. Horne returned to 
Liverpool, and sailed from there on the City
of Rome on the 25th of July, and after an
agreeable voyage, and no unpleasantness to
speak of, the steamer arrived in New York on
the 2nd of August. Mrs. Horne reached home
on the 12th of this month, having been absent
exactly three months, during which time she
has traveled 15,000 miles. Her sister went up
into Canada to visit relatives there. Mrs.
Horne has enjoyed good health during her ab-
sence, and has come home feeling well, and in
the best of spirits, to take up her accustomed
duties in and among the sisters’ organizations,
expecting, in addition to these, to labor for her
dead in the Temples of the Lord, for those,
whose records she has obtained while away.
	We welcome her home with joy, and pray
that her life may be prolonged to accomplish
all she desires for herself and family, and as a
mother in Israel among the people.—ED.


﻿Hurry to or from trains should in all cases
be avoided. It is dangerous to the healthy
habitual traveler as well as to the invalid.
Many a one has suffered permanent dilatation
of the heart in hurrying to catch a train; many
a one has dropped dead from the same cause.
Hurry in catching trains tends to weakness of
the nervous system, to indigestion, and to heart
disease, to say nothing of the risks of catching
cold from sitting down in the carriage heated,
in cases where the person has to walk quickly
instead of riding.
	We believe that in the Bible God has given
a form of government to the family, the
church, and to the State; and that in neither
is it good for man to be alone, but that God
designs that women as well as men should
share in the government of each. Those only
who have neglected the study of the Bible as
a text-book in government can deny this. In
the republican government which God gave
Israel, women took part in the ele[---]n. The
elections then, were by acclamation instead of
by ballot, and we find the women shouting
for David when he and Saul were running for
President; and Mrs. Deborah was President of
the United States of Israel during a term of
forty years.—Rev. M. A. Gault, Blanchard, Ia.
	In the entre nous column of the Boston Sun-
day Herald, commendatory notice is given of
Lady Folkestone’s orchestra of girls, which
made a lively digression from the staid customs
of London at a concert given in aid of dis-
tressed Irish ladies. It is asserted that “Bos-
ton has never attempted a full-blown orchestra
of ladies only, with its graceful conductor of
the female persuasion.” The Herald's memory
is short—let it ask Mrs. Sallie Joy White, who
so much honors its staff, if it is possible for
London to show a more graceful picture than
was made by the lithe and youthful figure who
stood in the rear of the gallery of the Music
Hall and led an orchestra of “ladies only” at
a most notable gathering at the Hub a few
months ago, which was presided over by a
woman every whit the peer of my lady of
Folkestone.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine. 
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers. 
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday. 
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT, 
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter. 
SALT LAKE CITY, 			AUGUST 15, 1888.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE INDUSTRIALIST, a monthly magazine, pub-
lished at Provo, has been improved and enlarged.
It contains many excellent things upon farming,
gardening and domestic matters, and encourages
in its columns the building up of home-interests
in every department of home-produce and home-
manufacture.  This is the kind of principles to
teach, as well as to practise, if Utah is ever to be-
come self-sustaining.  Such a paper as the Indus-
trialist is likely to find favor with the people, and a 
broad sphere for its circulation, especially among
those who depend upon manual labor for their 
support, and who are looking to the success of
home-productions, and the increase of home pat-
ronage for the prosperity of Utah.
	THE SANITARIAN, recently started in this city,
and edited by the Drs. Shipp, is certainly a very
creditable medical journal, and each issue has 
valuable papers upon some one or more of the 
various topics now being discussed by scientists
as relating to health and hygiene.  If there is 
any new light upon the science of life and how to
prolong it, or get more enjoyment out of it, and
how to preserve the little ones from the power of
the destroyer, how to live in perfect harmony with
the laws of nature, the Latter-day Saints should
avail themselves of every opportunity to obtain
such knowledge.  No doubt the editors will make
a point of keeping up with all the new and ap-
proved methods of medical and surgical attain-
ments in the profession, and keep pace with the 
times.  Mothers would do well to read and digest 
all that pertains to maternity, and also to attend
lectures upon these subjects, that they may be-
come well informed upon matters so important
and so essential to their own health and happi-
ness and that of their posterity.
	MISS DAISIE D. WOODS returned from Boston,
Saturday, July 21st, where she had been the past
year studying music, vocal and instrumental, at
the New England Conservatory.  Her teachers
speak highly of her ability, and predict for her a 
brilliant success in the profession, if she perseveres
in the work.  Prof. Daniels, one of the vocal
teachers there, who visited Salt Lake shortly be-
fore her return home, gave her mother and friends
here, every encouragement as to her voice and
taste, and what she might yet accomplish in music,
as well as her dramatic talent, which he thinks ex-
cellent.  Miss Woods has formed many pleasant
friendships with the pupils at the Conservatory,
and speaks in the highest praise of the institution

[Column 2]
and its management in all its departments.  She
appreciates the opportunities given the students
to hear lectures by famous people, both men and 
women, and tells us how much she enjoyed hear-
ing Mrs. Mary A. Livermore, who seems to have
impressed her greatly, and other noted women 
speakers.  She paid a visit to the Quaker poet
John G. Whittier, who showed her his favorite
trees at Oak Knoll, and told her how much he ad-
mired and would like to see the Rocky Moun-
tains, if his age would permit him to travel.
She also visited Plymouth with a large party of 
the students, Longfellow's home, Hawthorne's 
haunts in Salem, brought home pictures of the
"house with seven gables," and several other
places famed in the legends of New England.
At vacation Miss Daisie went up into the country
among the hills, and wandered over the old farms
and through the woods redolent of pine and hem-
lock, of which her grandmother had told her so 
often, and she realized that it was, indeed, very
beautiful, but her own home was still more fair, as
well as more dear, and she was charmed on her
return to behold once more the grand-old moun-
tains, always associated with her thoughts of home
and loved ones.
	THE DESERET UNIVERSITY, with its facilities
for education, its modern improvements, the de-
lightful grounds, and the suitable situation, en-
closed, as it is, and shaded on all sides, is, indeed,
a desirable locality for such an institution.  It has
the advantage, also, of an able Faculty, and ought
to rank high as a seat of learning.  Officers of the
Board of Regents are reliable men of note in the
Territory, and the Chancellor is Orson F. Whit-
ney, well and favorably known in the interests of
education.  The Officers of the Board, beside the
Chancellor, Secretary, Treasurer, Executive Com-
mittee of three, Visiting Committee, Library and 
Museum Committee, Building Committee.  Faculty
and Board of Instruction: John R. Park, M. D.,
President, Natural Science; Joseph B. Toronto,
Registrar, Mathematics and History; Joseph T.
Kingsbury, Physics and Chemistry; Orson How-
ard, A. M., Natural Science and English Litera-
ture; Joshua A. Paul, Elocution and Geography;
Henry C. White, A. B., Principal of Deaf Mute
Department; Geo. M. Ottinger, Free Hand Draw-
ing and Painting; Evan Stephens, Vocal Music;
H. M. Schmidt-Wartenberg, Ph. D., Latin and 
German; Hon. J. G. Sutherland, Law; Wm. M.
Stewart, Pedagogies; Don Carlos Young, C. E.,
Architecture and Mechanical Drawing; Alfred
Andre, French; Orson Pratt, Piano and Organ;
Willard E. Weihe, Violin; Florence Crandell,
Assistant Deaf Mute Department; John M.
Whittaker, Phonography; Milton H. Hardy, M.
D., Physician to Deaf Mute Department, and
Librarian.  The academic year is divided into
four terms of ten weeks each.  The first term will
begin September 3rd and end November 9th;
second term begin November 12th and close
January 25th; third term begin January 28th and
end April 15th; fourth term begin April 17th and
close June 14th.  Vacation recess will be, Thanks-
giving—Winter Holidays, ten days, including
Christmas and New Year's.  The Annual of the
University gives a very general account of its
history, from the time when the institution was
founded.  The first meeting of the first Board of 
Regents was held March 13, 1850, and on the
second Monday in the November following, the
University was open for the admission of students.
There is much of interest connected with the past
history of the University of Deseret, that is given
briefly in the Circular.  The institution has had a 
hard struggle in the past, although many teachers
have been thoroughly educated there, but at the
present time indications are much more favorable
to the requirements necessary for a classical
course than formerly.  Dr. Park and others, who
have labored so diligently heretofore, must feel
more gratified with the present condition.


MEMORIAL ANNIVERSARY.

REPORT OF THE RELIEF SOICETY MEETING,
HELD IN THE OGDEN TABERNACLE, JULY
19TH, 1888, IN COMMEMORATION OF THE
LAST PUBLIC VISIT AND INSTRUCTIONS OF
PRESIDENT BRIGHAM YOUNG, ON INVITA-
TION OF PRESIDENT JANE S. RICHARDS, TO
THE RELIEF SOCIETY AND YOUNG LADIES'
IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATIONS OF THE
WEBER STAKE OF ZION, JUST ELEVEN
YEARS AGO THE 19TH INST.

(REPORTED BY JOHN M WHITTAKER.)

[Continued.]
	Brother Richards continuing said: To read
all of President Young's sermon, would be to oc-
cupy all the forenoon. It is long and full of inter-
est. These principles lie right at the foundation
of our education our growth, and our usefulness.
I felt as though I could do no better than read
this portion or part of the sermon to the sisters
now eleven years after he delivered it.
	It will be remembered that we labored to sus-
tain ourselves. He wished the sisters to manu-
facture hats, and the brethren to sustain them in
their labors, so that we could become a self-sus-
taining people. He wished the brethren to estab-
lish manufactures and start various industries.
And so strongly was he impressed, that he arose
the second time and encouraged the sisters to
raise Mulberry trees and cocoons, so that they
might manufacture silk.
	An organization was effected, and the sisters,
many of them, took stock in this company; it
worked well for a time; some of you have seen
the products of that work.
	Having made these few remarks, which will
bring more vividly before you the instructions of
eleven years ago and him who delivered them, I
do not feel to occupy more time; but wish to say a
few words during some part of the day. With
the many sisters and presidents that are here, we,
no doubt, will have many refreshing, cheering
and profitable discourses. I will now introduce
to you Sister Presendia Kimball, sister of the new
President, Sister Zina D. H. Young. Sister Kim-
ball will address you.
	My brethren and sisters: I am pleased for the
opportunity of meeting with with you on this occasion.
What is more gratifying than to see the faces off
the daughters of Zion and sons of God meeting
together to honor, to commemorate and to mani-
fest our respect for our late President Brigham
Young, who has gone behind the veil. I feel to
thank God for this and every other blessing that
I am permitted to enjoy. This Relief Society is
a great benefit and blessing to the poor and to the
Bishops. It was instituted to aid and assist the
sons and daughters of God; but we do not all ap-
preciate its worth. And those who labor to pro-
mote these institutions are blessed and will be
blest in every laudable undertaking, and God will
sustain them in their labors. I feel that Sister
Richards is a blessing to the sisters of this
county. And though her labors are not now ap-
preciated, they will be some day, when this raid
that is now upon us is ended, and the beloved
brethren who are in hiding can come out and
instruct us and preach to us. I ask God to hasten
the time and bless them with strength to stand
firm at all times.
	I think the remarks of Brother Richards, and
the counsel contained in the sermon of President
Brigham Young, worthy of imitation. I think
the mothers should profit by them; and those who
are past bearing children, will do well to profit by
them and teach them to their grandchildren.
What is there better than to see the children
brought up in the fear and admonition of the
Lord? What is more pure and holy than to see
children virtuous and God-fearing, all working


[Column 1]

righteousness and keeping the commandments of
God, and preparing to stand as Saviors upon
Mount Zion? Mothers are the ones that train up
the children. Never let your tempers get the
upper hand of you. Teach the little children to
pray as soon as they can lisp their words—teach
them before they are too old. Teach them while
yet they are pure from their Father In heaven, be-
fore they are surrounded with the influences of
the world, and then they will make mighty mem-
bers of the Church and Kingdom of God; for
such will soon be needed. The fathers and
mothers of this Church are getting old and are
passing away. They are going one by one, one by
one. I have been in this Church fifty-two years.
I have seen the rise and fall of a great many great
and noble spirits in the kingdom of God. "Blessed
are they that die in the Lord from henceforth,"
so says the Lord, "for their works do follow them."
I do not look upon death with the terror that some
do. I think it will be pleasant to go behind the
veil and join with those who have been faithful,
honored God and are bright and shining lights in
His kingdom.
	We should teach our children to honor them.
Not find fault, but to teach ennobling principles
of the salvation of the living and the redemption
of the dead. Of the work in the temples, I can
say that it occupies a great deal of my time, and I
feel thankful for such privileges and blessings. I
have the comfort to know that I have been in
every temple built in this generation. I ask God
to bless the fathers and mothers in Israel, that
they may bring up their children in the ways of
God, to be pure and holy. Teach them the princi-
ples President Brigham Young taught, that they
may grow up to be useful in this world and gain a
crown of glory in the world to come.
	I pray that you will remember Sister Zina in
your prayers; for she needs your aid and support
in her declining years. I pray God that He will
bless the authorities, and also the mothers,
especially the rising generation. I think the Re-
lief Society is one of the greatest blessings, ex-
cept the Primaries, that God has ever given
through His  prophets for the benefit of this
people. It is something that will enable the child-
ren to bear this kingdom off when the aged are
passed away.
	I pray that his choice blessings may rest upon
these organizations, those who are laboring in
their interest and all who desire to do right, and
all who are honorable among the nations of the
earth who desire to do good. If I had power I
would be pleased to live to be sanctified for the
changes before us. These are the greatest bless-
ings that we can live for, or that could be given
us, and I ask for them to rest upon us in the
name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
	President D. H. Peery then said he deemed it a
fitting place to talk over the events that have
transpired since the instructions of President
Young, which were given to us eleven years ago
to-day. He had known President Young before
he saw him. He loved him for the relationship
he sustained with the heavens, and for the great
principles of the Gospel and other things he advo-
cated. The speaker had the good fortune to know
most of the presidents of the United States. He
had, in his youth, learned to call Benjamin Frank-
lin "the Solomon of America," yet, when he saw
and knew Brigham, Brigham Young was, in his
mind, the Solomon of America. He was great,
and his name will be handed down from genera-
tion to generation as one beloved of his people
and of his God.
	He well remembered the instructions of Presi-
dent Young in relation to Home Industries, and
thought if the people had taken his advice, they
would be self-sustaining to day. He also be-
lieved the time would come when, if this people
did not turn round and repent, that they would be
in a condition of hunger when the children would

[Column 2]

cry for bread, and that, too, before many decades.
These were strong impressions made upon his
mind, and they were with him constantly. He
prayed for the blessings of God upon the people
of Israel.
	Sister Helen Mar Whitney said:
	I feel honored, my brethren and sisters, in ap-
pearing before you here to-day and mingling with
some whom I have not met for many years. I
never before met with the Society in Ogden, and
I now feel it a privilege to be here on this event-
ful occasion.
	I can say that I loved President Young. He
dandled me upon his knees from my birth, and I
loved him next to my own father. He, Uucle
Joseph Young and my father had equal place in
my heart. They used to ask me which of them I
loved best, but I never knew any difference. I
once said to an inquiry, "I love you all at once."
Uncle Brigham used often to relate this.
	I feel that I can say amen to all that has been
said here to-day. The instructions of President
Brigham Young seem familiar. He was one of
the noblest of men.
	I can realize the responsibilities and the cares
that are placed upon the mothers; for I am a
mother, and one that has reared a number of
children—sons and doughters; and I know the
anxiety of a mother; I have felt it for many years,
and have prayed that I might live to raise my
family. My husband had another wife—a good
woman, too, and a good mother—but I thought I
would rather raise my children myself, because
she might indulge them too much; and there is
danger in that, just as much as in its opposite.
But the Lord has spared me to raise my children
to become men and women, excepting those He
has taken. I feel that it is the greatest comfort
that could be placed upon me, and it is the hight
of my ambition and my desire to see my children
walking in that path which leads to eternal life.
And as far as the things of the world is con-
cerned, there are many good things that the Lord
blesses us with, and which make us happy, but it
is better to keep the riches of the world away
from us, until we know how to use them.
	Mothers should train up their children in the
fear of the Lord. There are no missionaries that
can do the good to children that mothers can, be-
cause she knows the child's disposition and its
weaknesses; she knows how to train it aright;
and it is an important thing. Mothers should
study how to manage their children, to know what
is best for this child and for that, and to show no
partiality. The rearing of children is a most im-
portant mission. When once a child becomes es-
tablished in the faith, it is a consolation to see
him or her walking along in the paths of virtue
and honor, treading in the footsteps of their
Master and Redeemer. I feel in my daily prayers
to pray for the mothers in Israel, and for the
youth of Zion, that they may come to an under-
standing of the Gospel.
	In looking back over the past, I can see where
we might have improved. I understood that the
earth was to rest every seven years; but I have
never seen the time when we wanted anything or
needed anything, but what the Lord has blest us
with the same, if it was for our good.
	It is a day for us to be prayerful. It is a day
when we should be humble—even humble our-
selves in sack-cloth and ashes. And I feel that
the present persecution is a chastisement and
that it will be for our good. It will clear us of
those who are among us, who hinder our progress,
for they prevent us from enjoying the blessings of
the Lord, which we would otherwise have. It is
perfectly right, and I feel to pray that the chasten-
ing hand of the Almighty may be sanctified to
the good of this people.
	I, for one, feel to be up and doing. The adver-
sary stands ever ready to destroy our usefulness;
he has done much to discourage me and take me

[Column 3]

off the earth. And I have felt sometimes as
though it would be a joy if I could go. But it
was only in  my weak, sick, and prostrated
moments. I feel now to live to take part
in the winding up scenes.
	I pray that we may be saved and crowned with
that glory that we desire, in the name of the Lord
Jesus Christ. Amen.
	Apostle H. J. Grant then said:
	I am pleased to have the opportunity to meet
with the sisters on this occasion, and I have been
interested in what has been said here this morn-
ing in the remarks that have been made, and
those portions of the sermon of Prest. Young's
that have been read to us.
	I realize that it is the neglect of small duties
that devolve upon us as Latter-day Saints, that
makes us feel that we are not required to do those
things that are so small. I believe that there are
many Latter-day Saints who think they can neglect
insignificant requirements and small duties, and
still press forward in keeping the commandments
of God because of the testimonies that they have
received of the truths of the Gospel. I do not
believe that it is possible for you or for me, or any
individual to break any of the commandments of
God and maintain the fellowship of His Holy
Spirit to the full extent. The Lord certainly does
not intend to be trifled with; and when He gives
commandments to us as His people to keep, if it
is of sufficient importance to give commandments,
it is certainly right and proper that we should keep
them. I believe in the influence and the power
that the mothers of Israel have over their child-
ren. I believe that the remarks that President
Young made here are true, and that it is possible
for the mothers to make their children about wha
they may desire. They are capable of moulding
their characters for good or for evil; and through
the neglect and failure on the parts of mothers,
you will find you can trace the failure of the child-
ren.
	I recall to my mind, at the present time, a cer
tain individual that was very careless in his youth
in keeping the commandments of the Lord. The
father of this boy was an Apostle, and whenever
he would do wrong, his mother would shield him
in his wrong, and hide it from his father. He went
from bad to worse and met a violent death.
	Now, I do not believe that it is possible for any
mother to cover up the misdeeds of her children
and have them grow honest. I realize that we, as
Latter-day Saints, if we but keep the command-
ments of God and do His will and perform the
duties devolving upon us, that we will receive
blessings from our Heavenly Father. He makes
no promises to us that He is not willing to fulfill.
The great difficulty is, we neglect to keep His
commandments through which we are entitled to
His blessings, and then ask for the reward without
being entitled to it.
	Now, we have heard, with reference to the com-
mandments which come to us by President Young,
that we should be self-sustaining. How many of
the Latter-day Saints are self-sustaining to-day?
How many of the Latter-day Saints, from the
Twelve Apostles down, wear home-made clothing?
Very, very few indeed. How many of the Latter-
day Saints throughout the whole Territory pay
their tithing. This is a commandment of the
Lord, He said we were to pay our tithing, and
He has given it as a law to the people, that they
should pay one tenth of all their increase. There
are many who, when they make a little, will pay
their tithing; but when they make considerable, it
breaks their hearts, they feel that they cannot do
it.
	Now, it may seem an extravagant statement, but
I believe one fourth of the Latter-day Saints do
not pay their tithing. The Lord has said if we do
not pay our tithes and our offerings, it shall not be
a land of Zion to us. I can say truthfully, I spent
several days in looking over the records in Salt


[Column 1]

Lake City, and was dumbfounded to see that some
Presidents, Bishops and officers, many and many
of them, do not pay a dollar of tithing, in some of
the different Stakes of Zion—representative men
among the Latter-day Saints. What is the trouble?
Why, we seem to have set our hearts upon the
things of this world. We think more of keeping
the dollars and cents in our pockets than to gain
the blessings of God.
	I call upon the sisters to teach their children, in
their youth, that on every dollar they make, they
should pay one tenth to the Lord. If we desire
the Lord to open the windows of the heavens and
shower forth the blessings of God upon us, we
must live right. If you wish your sons and
daughters to gain a testimony of the truth of the
Gospel and grow in the knowledge of the truth,
then teach them that Jesus is the Christ, that
Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God, that Brig-
ham Young, John Taylor and Wilford Woodruff
are his legal successors. If you wish this knowl-
edge to burn in their hearts, teach them to pay one
tenth—a just portion of what comes into their
hands. If we do not render unto the Lord our
thanks, His Spirit will die out and wither within
us, so far as the Gospel is concerned. If we set
our heart upon the things of this world, we will
gain the things of this world and that is all. I tell
you the tithing that is paid by the Latter-day
Saints does not help God at all. He does not
need it, so far as He is concerned. Then why are
we called upon to pay tithing? So that we would
not become sordid and selfish. Why are we called
upon to keep the Word of Wisdom? So that we
can keep our bodies pure and our spirits pure
Why are we called upon to be prayerful? So that
we will be humble. Why are these command-
ments given? So that we may attain to perfection.
They are given to perfect us, and fit us to dwell in
the presence of God, the Eternal Father. But
paying tithing, keeping the commandments and
being prayerful does no good to God, but to us.
If you would have your children grow up to be
bright and shining lights in the kingdom of God,
doing their duties so that they may attain perfec-
tion and dwell in the kingdom of God eternally,
teach them to keep all the principles of God.
Teach them to be honest with their fellowmen and
with all mankind, and to keep their word as their
bond.
	I do not feel to occupy any more time. May
God bless you, one and all, is my prayer, in the
name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
	Sister Bathsheba Smith, though having weak
lungs, desired to mingle her voice with that of her
sisters, and was pleased to listen to so many good
testimonies, and hear the good instructions given.
She rejoiced at having the honor of being at the
first Relief Society, organized in Nauvoo, and had
noted with pride the rapid growth of the Society.
She was also at the first Young Ladies' meeting,
or organization, in President Young's house, and
had been pleased with their improvement since
that time. She said they were doing a good work,
and was pleased to state that she was first a secre-
tary, then a teacher, and next a president; but of
all the positions she had ever held, she believed 
that of a teacher the most important. She realized
there was a great deal required of us, and rejoiced
in seeing the sick comforted and blessed, the lame
healed, and the blind restored to sight through the
administration of the sisters. And she urged up-
on the sisters to teach their children faith in the
ordinances of the Gospel, that they might grow
up pure in God, and be sanctified with the re-
deemed.
	Elder Richard Ballantyne addressed the con-
gregation a few moments, encouraging the sisters
to be up and awake to their duties and privileges.
He felt to welcome the visitors, and was glad to
meet to help commemorate this holy day. He
was acquainted with President Young in Nauvoo
and since he lived here, and ever found him to be

[Column 2]

a man of God, and give fatherly advice at all
times. He invoked the blessings of heaven to
rest upon the sisters who are laboring in the Relief 
cause everywhere.
	The choir sang, "Praise to the man who com-
munes with Jehovah." Benediction by Bishop
E. Stratford.
	At the close of the services, President Jane S.
Richards extended a hearty welcome to all the
people to repair to the Third Ward meeting house,
where they went and partook of one of the most
completely arranged dinners ever gotten up so
quietly.  It was the remark of everybody, "How
nicely this has been arranged," etc.
	The room was decorated with garlands of ever-
greens and flowers; above the stand, in letters of
evergreen, was inscribed:

	1877,
WEBER STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY,
	1888.

A large picture of President Brigham Young was
hung amid these inscriptions, and below the late
Presidency of the Church. In the south window
was a scythe, covered with evergreens and decora-
tions, hung in open view. These decorations
were the work of the Y. M. and Y. L. Associa-
tions of the Third Ward. These young people
deserve great credit for the artistic display, which
enhanced the pleasure of the dinner very much.
The tables were handsomely furnished with an
abundance of everything of the choicest in the
season, brought from the several wards in the city.
It was verily an enjoyable feast, and partaken of
by all with a relish, seasoned with conversation of
such a nature as added much to the enjoyment of
the occasion. Six or seven hundred people sat
down to the tables spread for them. Counselor
Barnard White superintended the preparations.
Apostle F. D. Richards pronounced the blessing
upon the food.
	At 1:45 p.m. the afternoon exercises began in
the Tabernacle, Mrs. Jane S. Richards presiding.
Congregation sang, "Come, let us anew," etc.
Prayer was offered by Bishop Barnard White.
Singing, "Now, let us rejoice in the day of salva-
tion.
	Sister Mary Ann Hyde, President of the Relief
Society of the Sanpete Stake, said:
	Beloved brethren and sisters: I feel it a great
privilege to meet with you on this occasion. I
have been very much gratified to meet with so
many of my sisters. It is a privilege I never be-
fore enjoyed. I feel that there is a sweet influ-
ence in the midst of the sisters of this place, the
same as there is throughout Sanpete.
	I was very much pleased with the remarks of
Sister Richards, your President, this morning.
They were kind and gentle and motherly, and
carried that influence with them that draws so
many towards her.  In her speaking of the sim-
plicity of our teachings, there is so much
pleasure that gives joy in labors of life's duties
which we have to perform. We are not here be-
cause of our fluent speaking but because of the
truths which are uttered by the speakers to us.
	In listening to the remarks of President Young,
it carried me back to the time when the spirit
and mantle of Joseph fell upon him. I was there
and witnessed that scene at the time it occurred.
I looked, and it seemed as though it was Joseph
himself. I said to those near me, "See there is
Joseph," not even taking my eyes off for fear I
should lose the sight of it. It was a testimony to
me that he was the right man in the right place.
	It is the privilege of every Latter-day Saint to
have a degree of revelation for themselves. I
have been blessed many times by listening to the
whispers of that still small voice; and I would
exhort those of my brethren and sisters who
have not got a testimony of this work, to try and
get it.
	Persecution is now upon us, and I pray that

[Column 3]

the chastening hand of the Almighty may be
sanctified to our good, that we may see between
light and darkness in the great struggle that is
going on. And I wish to say that in 1842 I
was sealed to my husband and during this long
time in plural marriage I have had a great many
opportunities of proving the principle; and I have
raised a great number of children, and I feel that
it is quite possible, sisters, to love the wives of
your husband, no matter how many he may have,
you can cultivate that love. And the children of
all will be equally dear to all. I feel to rejoice that
the Lord has given me strength to hold on until
now, and pray that He will bless me until the
end.
	Sister Rachel Grant then said:
	I feel very pleased, my brethren and sisters, to
meet with you this afternoon. I feel that these
societies are a great benefit to this people, and by
attending to my duties my faith has been
strengthened; but the greatest blessing of my life
has been that I have entered the Holy order of
marriage, although it has been the greatest trial
of my life. But to-day, I can say I feel thankful
for the experience I have gained. I have a good
opportunity to think and reflect, as my hearing is
not good.  I have been grieved many times at the 
course some of our young have taken. I feel very
much interested in the rising generation, and
would like to see them prepare themselves for the
great work of the future they will have to per-
form. There is a carelessness and neglect among
the young that grieves me. I was out to Grants-
ville at conference a short time ago, and after en-
joying a good meeting, we came by Garfield
Beach, and it hurt me to see so many of the
young people, calling themselves Latter-day
Saints, there bathing and sporting on the Sabbath
day. I feel that we do not pay respect unto the 
Lord as we should. I realize there is no people
upon the earth to-day, that is more greatly blessed
than we are. Then, let us realize our position as
a people, and appreciate the blessings God is daily
bestowing upon us. I beseech my young brethren
and sisters to store their minds with useful knowl-
edge, that they may be fitted and qualified for the
events of the future. I pray that we may be
humble and prayerful, then will the clouds of per-
secution roll away, and we will be a happy and
free people. For I look for the time when I will
be able to hear by the power of God; and unto
this end I continually pray, in the name of Jesus.
Amen.
	President Angus M. Cannon said:
	It is gratifying to me to be privileged to meet
with you to-day, and listen to the words of coun-
sel that we have heard, and I trust that while I
address you, that the Holy Spirit of God may fill
my heart with hope and my mind with light, that
it is the privilege of the covenant children to en-
joy; that while I may address you, I may speak
those things actuated of God, and which will be
the greatest good for us all. When we stand
forth in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, we do
not stand to utter our own words, but the words of
Jesus, whose ministers we are—for the Holy
Ghost is the minister unto His servants; and when
He called His Apostles and sent them forth, He
said: "As my father hath sent me even so send I
you; he that receiveth you, receiveth me;
and he that receiveth me, receiveth Him that sent
me." With this commission, message and divine
authority bestowed upon them, He told them they
were not to minister, when He took His departure,
until the Holy Ghost should come and furnish
them with the knowledge of God and the testi-
mony they should bear. Hence, the necessity of
us to-day possessing that spirit, and being actuated
by that divine influence.
	When I contemplate and realize that we are the
descendants of God, obtaining tabernacles of
flesh, and being ministered unto of the Lord
through His divinely commissioned servants—


[Column 1]

apostles and prophets—I ask myself the question:
"Do our lives comport with our professions, and
are the evidences of our labors such as shall give
us credit. You mothers, and my younger sisters
are to raise up men to instruct kings, and minister
the Lord's laws in His divine organization by His
authority. Hence, the necessity to impress upon
 the minds of the young, whom you are called to
nourish and educate, their divine descent, the
knowledge of the dignity of their calling and the
situations they will be called to fill.
	A man may have grown grey in the service of
God, he may have filled his life with continued
labors in the ministry, yet he has never received a
daughter of Eve at the hand of God until he took
upon him the obligations of the everlasting priest-
hood. And if he lives right, he will prize nothing
as he will the will of God. He will not love his
wife as he loves God, for God gives him his wives,
God give woman to man under pledges of eternal
union.
	Now, we are being tried and schooled; and my
heart rejoices in the testimony of Brother Grant,
this morning, as he taught us the necessity of be-
stowing upon our families a good example, the
paying of tithes and offerings with fidelity;
and I thought how appropriate these teachings—
these truths, in the presence of these mothers,
and these maidens who are destined to become
mothers.
	When I read the history of those two thousand
young men, and the manner of God's blessing
them under the hands of the High Priest, Hela-
man, that they went forth cherishing the testimony
God had given them through the advice and
teachings of their mothers, that God would sus-
tain them in all their battles, and when I look upon
the mothers of this people, and remember the
sacrifices that they have made in sharing with
others their wifely interests and in cheerfully and
freely dividing their scanty support that they may
carry out the divine behests of Jehovah, I say
when I realize these things, I feel to glorify God
that you have been true to your covenants and the
counsels of God Almighty.
	When I have seen those same men turn and
weaken, whom their wives have done so much for,
when the United Order came about—I say when I
see these men weaken, when they have been re-
quired to take their substance and place it upon
the altar, subject to the divine counsels of God,
and hear them say, "Well, I don't know whether
that is very good or not; I think I can handle my
property as well as any one else, and until I can
find some one who can handle it better than I, I
will not listen to that counsel"—when I have seen
men aged and grey, feeble with age, assume such
a position, with their wives and children looking
upon them—those who have been required to
sacrifice their feelings and almost break their
heart-strings, in order to carry out the divine
decrees of God—and then to see their husbands
weaken and hesistate when it comes to temporal
things, I say, unhappy are the wives of such
men; yet it is a thing that has been done.
	This is a day of trial, and I speak of these
things that these sisters who are mothers, and will
yet become mothers, may teach their child-
ren—their sons and daughters—that as they prize
the fellowship of God, they must  prize His gifts.
We should make everything subservient to the
will of God. I tell you, there is nothing in the
world that excites the despleasure of God, as the
abuse of the blessings that He bestows upon us.
Therefore, teach your sons to be obedient, to be-
lieve in God's existence, and that all they possess
should be subject to His divine will.
	Then would we encourage home industries.
Then would those who wear home-made clothing
be respected, and then would we become more of
a self-sustaining people. And while the trains
are heavily laden with Sabbath breakers and
transgressors, going to these popular resorts on

[column 2]

the Sabbath, and on moonlight excursions, where
some of the daughters of Zion have been cor-
rupted and destroyed, the majority of the people
are on the side of the kingdom of God, and are
strengthened by the testimony of Jesus, and God's
name will be glorified in the earth from the rising
to the setting of the sun, and Zion is rising and
beginning to shine forth. May God strengthen
us in every good endeavor, unite us in our hearts,
that we may be characterized by virtue, truth and 
good works, whether it be by father, mother, sis-
ter or brother, wives or children, husbands, sons
or daughters, so that we may set examples to the
world, and may fill the stations we are called to
fill with dignity and honor; and that God may
strengthen you mothers and daughters in the call-
ing whereunto you have been called, is my prayer,
in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
	Sister Harriet Snow, Prest. of the Box Elder
Stake Relief Society, said:
	I rejoice to be in your midst to-day, and to
listen to the good instructions which have been
given. We have been called to labor amongst the
Saints in the midst of the mothers in Israel.
	I have been made to rejoice in all Gospel doc-
trines that have been revealed, and I never have
any recollection of ever doubting any one of them
at any time. I have tried to perform my duties
step by step, and still feel determined to perform
every duty that is made known to me. That is
why I stand here to-day. Since I have been in-
terested in the Society of Box Elder Stake, there
have been two taken off from what was, originally,
one Stake. We are striving  to store away wheat,
and I believe we must have about 500 bushels
now, and I believe the time will come when we
 will need it. I pray God to bless us in all things,
in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
	Dr. Edward Isaacson was then introduced, who
said:
	To say I am pleased—to say that I am thankful
to meet with you this afternoon, would not express
the feelings of my heart: I rejoice to see so many
happy faces, and when I reflect upon the great
and mighty work the Lord is doing, and that this
work has been entrusted to your care to do, you
certainly have a right to  be called, "True mothers
and daughters in Israel."
	And when I realize how many of our fellow-
beings are helped and assisted in the hour of
need and tribulation, when I realize that the
mothers in Israel go from house to house to com-
fort the sick and cheer the afflicted, I say unto
myself, these mothers and daughters have been
called by God Almighty, and placed here in these
valleys of Zion for the purpose of doing good.
	While I was listening, this morning, to Bro.
Grant, my heart was filled with sorrow. He has
told us plain enough that he has been, for days,
looking over the records of our tithing, and there
he has found that no more that twenty-five per
cent of our people are keeping the command-
ments of God with regards to the paying of tithing.
	My sisters, this is a law which was given unto
the great law giver, Moses, and which he gave
nnto the ancient people of God, and while they
paid their tithes and their offerings their tem-
ples and their cities have prospered and stood in
their glory; but as soon as they neglected to do it,
we know what become of God's people. These
commandments were again given to our Prophet
Joseph, and are in force among us in this dispensa-
tion; and while Apostle Grant said it is not right
 to neglect your tithing, I will go still further and
say unto you, that those who do not pay their tith-
ing, break one of the commandments which says:
"Thou shalt not steal!"
	I love to hear my brnthren and sisters testify of
the goodness of God, and to the truth of His Gos-
pel; and while the Lord has blessed us and is
blessing us, let us keep His commandments and
do His will at all times. Let us appreciate these
great blessings we here enjoy in these

[Column 3]

valleys of the mountains. When first
the people came to this place, it was
barren and wild. But now, through the blessings
of God, it has been made beautiful, and we have
ov ely homes; for God did give these homes to
us, and they are His. I must say, that each meet-
ing that I attend, each time I mingle my voice
with those of my brethren, strengthens my heart
and my testimony in the knowledge that we alone
have the only Gospel of the true
and living God; and through His
gracious mercies, which he is bestowing upon
this people daily, shall teach them more and more,
that God Almighty has chosen them. He has
blessed this people and surrounded them with
magnificent and beautiful temples, the like of
which are not to be found upon the face of the
earth; He has blessed us in many ways, yet we
are only slow in doing our duties towards our God.
Let us, then, my brethren and sisters, live nearer
to God, keeping His commandments, and live
noble lives in His sight.
	I may say again to you, that we do not live as
we ought. If the Prophet Brigham Young were
to see the loads going on excursions on the Sab-
bath day, seeing the daughters of Zion mingling
with the Gentiles, would he not feel very sorry
 for the Saints? You have heard read here this
morning his counsels, given eleven years ago to-
day. He has counseled you mothers to watch
over your children, and bring them up keeping
God's commandments; and I beseech you to live
up to the counsel he gave while with us. Instruct
your children to walk in the ways of God, and He
will bless you. I know that the hand of the Al-
mighty is over this people, and I bear my testi-
mony to you, that this alone is the truth of God,
and it is His work. May He in His mercy bless
us. May He keep His eyes over us and
watch and protect us, so that we may not fail to
do our duties as He desires us to do, and that we
may keep His commandments, through Jesus
Christ. Amen.
		To be Continued.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S 'EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


CAMPAIGN POETRY ABOUT MRS.
			CLEVELAND.
	Mrs. Sarah M. P. Pratt, who has written
some rather graceful poetry, is the author of
the ambitious campaign ode to Mrs. Cleveland,
published among free trade essays in Belford's
Magazine, and reproduced in The Sun a few
days ago.   The general theme is that no
crowned Queen in Europe is fairer or personal-
ly more charming than Mrs. Cleveland. We
do not think that any American will dispute
the proposition; but Mrs. Piatt’s verses, con-
sidered as poetry, are  not beyond criticism:
	"Queens may be fair, even in the cruel sun.
		Of this our day,  But runge them in a row;
	  One wears a rose of England—wtthering. One
		Outglitters Russia's snow."
	The idea of ranging the queens in a row, in
the cruel sun of July, for purposes of compari-
son, is harsh and mechanical.  The idea of 
Queens in a row, without reference to the 
weather, suggests some grotesque associations,
far removed from those which Mrs. Piatt had
in mind. Then ensues a catalogue of Queens,
beginning with Victoria of the withered rose
and ending thus:
	"One hides a girl's face in Spain's widow veil.
		One, who loves VIRGIL'S song has but to stir,
	  Or lift her golden head, and the nightingale
		Sings out his heart to her."
	The allusion, we suppose, is to the gifted 
Pauline Elizabeth Ottillie Louise of Roumania,
who, like Mrs. Piatt, writes for the magazines
at the usual rates of compensation, and who
contributed a poem to Brother Henry C.
Bowen's recent celebration of the glorious
Fourth at Woodstock, Conn.  But it is hardly


fair to compare Pauline Elizabeth Ottillie
Louise with the President's wife; she is more
in Miss Rose Elizabeth Cleveland's line. Hav-
ing ranged all the available Queens in a row,
Mrs. Piatt bids Mrs. Cleveland stand up:

	"Go, if you will, among them all and stand,
		With just a mountain wild flower in your hair,
	With just the wedding ring on your light hand 
		The nation bids you wear.

	"Then from the Elysian Fields call PARIS back;
		'Say who shall have the golden apple—who?'
	Though Europe, armed, should follow in his track
		He'd throw it straight to you."

	The suggestions contained in these final
stanzas are decidedly unpleasant, even were it
supposable that Paris, after his experience as
judge in one prize competition of female love-
liness, would ever consent to return from the
Elysian Fields to undertake the responsibility
of another award.
	Mrs. Piatt's poetical conceit is in gross viola-
tion of good taste, and we must say that her
verses are as far as possible from being the
right sort of lyric praise for so sensible, modest,
matter-of-fact, and truly American a woman as
Mrs. Cleveland.
	By all means let the poets continue to cele-
brate the admirable qualities of Mrs. Cleve-
land; but let it be done in a manner which her
own good sense would approve. There is no
need of standing the crowned queens of
Europe up in a row, with the mature Victoria
at the head of the line, and still less of bring-
ing Paris back from his present abiding place
in Sheol.
	Moreover, it was not the nation that bid
Mrs. Cleveland wear her wedding ring. She
was elected by Grover Cleveland and by him
alone, although the nation sincerely and sym-
pathetically approved of Mr. Cleveland's
choice. and ever since has held the subject of
Mrs. Piatt's hothouse verses in herty esteem
and respectful affection.—The Sun.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WRITER AS HE WRITES.

	"When you just begin to be an author,"
writes Julian Hawthorne in America, "the sight
of the blank sheet of paper gives you an appe-
tite instead of depriving you of it. You long
to be at work and cover it with ink-marks. A
new writer not only enjoys writing, but re-
writing also; I have known authors who will
copy out a piece over and over again, until the
page appears without an erasure That is not
a bad thing by way of practice, and would, no
doubt be advocated by the printers. But it is
not likely to be kept up more than two or three
years. After that the writer knows what he is
going to write before he writes it; he has
learned the art of putting the contents of his
mind directly on paper; besides, he has not the
time to make copper-plate reproductions of his
work. He is more apt to put it off to the last
practicable moment, and then to do it as rapid-
ly as he can. And by-and-by it will be irk-
some to him to do it at all; and he will wish
that fortune would present him with a year's
vacation, during which he could lie on his
back and do nothing.
	"There is a period, in the writing of every
book, when it seems impossible it should ever
be finished. What has gone before seems bad,
and what is to come is either a blank, or it
promises to be worse than the beginning. An
apathy, a paralysis, settles upon the worker; he
wishes he had taken up butchering or liquor-
selling for a living. Every day that he post-
pones the completion of his task it appears
more hopeless; his mind is gloomy, his con-
science oppressed; be haunts his study, but ef-
fects no more than a ghost might; he draws
pictures on scraps of paper, reads books that
do not interest him, and even plans out work


that can only be executed at some indefinite
future opportunity; at last his final moment of
grace expires, and he sits down in desperation
and plunges his pen into the inkstand. The
work goes on, and then he wonders how he
could have imagined any difficulty. The word
'Finis' is written, and he experiences an up-
lifting of the spirit. Thackeray, according to
all accounts, was subject to distressful periods
of this kind; but he declares, in one of his
essays, that after finishing a given book it was
his custom always to begin another before go-
ing to bed—in the mood of reactionary light-
heartedness following upon his depression."—
Ex.


[Column 1]

NOTES AND NEWS.

	Mrs. Stowe continues to receive $1,500 a
year royalties on "Uncle Tom's Cabin."
	Rev. E. P. Roe, the well-known clergyman
and story writer, died suddenly at Cornwall-on-
the-Hudson on the 20th of July.
	Emperor William of Germany has agreed
to the proposal that his mother should bear
the titles of Empress and Queen Frederick.
	Pundita Ramabai was welcomed before she
entered San Francisco by a committee who met
her en route, and was given a reception on her
arrival.
	Thirty years ago, on August 5, 1858, there
flashed under the waves of the Atlantic, from
Newfoundland to Ireland, the first unbroken
current of electricity.
	Amalie Rives says that she does not smoke
cigarettes, does not receive men in her bowers
of roses and couldn't jump a five-barred gate
if she would.
	The Paris Exposition will open on May 5th,
1889. General W. B. Franklin, the American
Commissioner general to that Exposition, has
opened the United States Government's office at
No. 35 Wall Street, New York.
	The Sunday Chronicle San Francisco, re-
sents Mrs. Howe's astonishment at the "intel-
lectual level" of her California audi-
ences, which she said in printed correspondence
was higher than I had dared to hope."
	Miss A. L. Wilson, general manager of The
San Francisco Breeder and Sportsman, is one
of the best-informed persons in America on
the pedigrees and history of trotting horses.
She is also an able writer on turf matters gener-
ally.
	The highest classical honor in the London
University has this year for the first time fallen
to a woman, Miss Mary Louise Worley, of
Girton College, who gained the gold medal in 
classes at the annual examination for the M. A.
degree.
	A Parisian Duchess has bettered Sarah
Bernhardt's tiger cub by adopting a real
panther as a pet. She keeps it in a long cage,
and gives it sun and air on the veranda, where
she feeds it herself, stroking it through the
bars of the cage as she does so.
	A case involving the right of women to hold
office in Iowa has just been decided. Miss
Ella S. Brown was an independent candidate
for the office of superintendent of public
schools and being counted out declared a con-
test The special count showed that she was 
elected. Then the other party appealed on
the ground that a woman lacks the right to
contest for office, but Judge Weaver held that
she has the right and the case was decided in
Miss Brown's favor.—Ex

[Column 2]

	If I did not believe in women voting, I
would never lusten to their advice; and I give 
it as a life's experience that the only serious
mistakes I have made have been when I did
not take the advice of one of the sweetest
women that ever lived. An individual whose
advice on political questions is good, should
at least have the privelege of putting it into prac-
tice.—Geo. R. Scott.
	There are men who dislike to hear anything
in favor of women voting, because they then
"Lose their softness." Women are "too fine for
anything so coarse as politics," they say; but it
never offends them to see women down on their
hands and knees scrubbing out men's dirty
offices. They are not too fine for that. If the
"pool of politics" be any dirtier than their
floors, I for one am not aware of it. Whenever
I see the scrub women toiling away, I think of
these thoughtful souls who want to protect
women from everything save work too menial
for men to perform,—New North West.
	Mrs. Harriet G. Brooks died June 27th, after
a painful illness. Mrs. Brooks was prominent
in the early stages of the women's suffrage
movement in Michigan from 1856 onwards.
She was for years secretary of the local and 
state suffrage associations, and during the years
of her residence in Chicago she attended the
meetings of the National Association at Wash-
ington. During her subsequent residence in
Nebraska she continued her active work, and
in 1882 she pleaded for women's suffrage before
the legislature of the state. She was also a
leader in other social questions, and was en-
gaged in literary pursuits. her loss will be
widely felt by a large circle of friends.—Ex.


R.K. THOMAS

EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.

R.K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
	in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERlES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
	And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes, 
	112,	114,	116,	118 East Temple Street

	DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FOR[-]E
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Order from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

