Vol. 17.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 1, 1888.	No. 9


THE AUTUMN.
Ah! this is the saddest time of the year,
Methinks I have heard, that the poets sing,
When days are gloomy, and landscape drear,
And the birds of passage are on the wing;
For the woods are brown and the fields are bare,
And the chill of Autumn is ev’rywhere.

I'll hie me away to some cosy nook,
’Mong the mossy rocks and the falling leaves,
And study awhile “Dame Nature’s book”
And gather a few of her choicest sheaves;
For this is her mellowest harvest time—
The season of sentiment, most sublime.

The hills are crowned with foliage gay,
Rich royal purple, brown, yellow and red;
But the skies are leaden, and dull and gray
And the summer flowr’s are lying dead;
Pale, withered garlands are round us strewn;
Yet a mantle of beauty is o’er them thrown.

 We think of the lov’d ones gone like the flow’rs,
Whose fragrance still lingers around the place;
And pensive and lonely are the hours,
As memorys’delicate lines we trace;
And the sere and yellow leaf entwine;
And lay the chaplet upon love’s shrine.

Oh; fanciful visions so far away,
Over the hills and the mountains too;
Farther and farthar my footsteps stray,
And quicker my heart doth the way pursue;
For the sunlight guides, and the shadows flee,
And the beautiful vista, is fair to see.

And I haste as it were with charmed feet,
While my heart beats high with passion wild,
List! I hear the music so soft and sweet,
I heard when a winsome, innocent child;
’Tis the rustle of leaves, and the sighing breeze,
And the murmur of voices ’mong the trees.

They whisper to me, and I answer too—
Though never a sound escapes from my lips
Yet, I know the message they bring is true
And I feel it thrill to my finger tips,
Ev’ry sense I possess affirms its truth,
And echoes back to the days of my youth.

Yes, the past with its gleam of love and light,
Its sunshine and shadow	its smiles and tears,
Has a rainbow of promise ever bright.
That lightens the path of my future years, 
And my faith grows stronger as time rolls by, 
That the goal I’m seeking is drawing nigh.

But I've flown so far in my dreamy flight,
That perhaps ’tis time to retrace my way;
I fear the present is lost to my sight,
Better come back to the scenes of to-day;
For mortals must deal with the things that are real,
Tho’ poets oft wander ’mid the ideal.

What’s this I’ve been dreaming here by the fire,
While in fancy I flew far o’er the hills? 
What symphony grand did my soul inspire, 
While a magic elixir my bosom thrills?
’Tis night and I’m sitting here quite alone,
And the beautiful visions I saw have flown.

I hear only the wierd and tragic wind,
As it whistles and shrieks and moans and sighs;
Ah, this is the potent power I find
Which brought me the genii, so wondrous wise
That opened the realm of poetic thought
And tender branches of evergreen sought.

These were remembrances loving and true,
Scattered at intervals over life’s way,
The pleasures we shared, the friends we know,
That are fresh and and green in our hearts to-day;
Fragments of beauty from out the dead past,
Which over our lives have a halo cast.
								E. B. W.


[Column 1]
FOREIGN LETTER.
Nottingham, July, 1888.
EDITOR MILLENNIAL STAR:
	DEAR BROTHER:— Among the events that
have recently taken place is one worthy of
mention in the columns of The Star. I refer
to the visit of my aunt, Sister Isabəlla M. 
Horne, to her native country (England), after
an absence of fifty-six years. She was accom-
panied by her sister, Harriet Ellis, of Wood's
Cross, Utah, and her son, Richard S. Horne.
	This venerable lady left her home in Salt
Lake City, Utah, on the 12th of May last, and
reached Glasgow on the 30th of the same month.
	During her stay in England she visited
Rainham, in Kent, her birthplace, went into
the old home of her girlhood, and attended
religious services in the old church, where she
was christened in February, 1819. Sister
Horne has availed herself of opportunities of
mingling with the Saints, particularly with the
sisters of the Relief Society, giving them good
counsel and words of encouragement, and re-
lating much of her experience among the
Saints from 1836 to the present. At London
she held quite a controversy with two of the
leading ladies of the woman's suffrage cause,
and succeeded in removing some prejudice and
imparting information concerning "Mormon-
ism," the "Mormons," and their beliefs and
practices, that was new light to them. 
One of the ladies was very curious to know
how polygamous families get along, and
pointedly asked Sister Horne if her husband
was a man of many wives. "My husband has
other wives," was the reply. With eyes wide
open, expressive of the greatest astonishment,
the lady asked, "How did you feel?" "Just as
you would feel," replied my aunt. "I am a
woman like yourself, and, but for my religious
convictions, would no more have consented for
my husband to take another wife than you 
would; but I know that the principle of plural
or celestial marriage is true and from God. 
God has spoken from the heavens, and raised
up the boy-prophet, Joseph Smith, to establish
His kingdom on the earth in these the last days,
and I have a testimony of the truth of these
things. I have had the honor of entertaining
the Prophet in my own home, and know that
he was a man of God." "Well, but you don't
expect to convert us to these things?" "Oh,
no, madame. If we wished to convert you to 
our religious belief, we would begin with the
first principles, not with the highest and most
exalted ones."
	At Shrewsbury one of the ladies whom Sis-
ter Horne met there stated that she had read a
book written against the "Mormons," in which
the declaration was made that President Brig-
ham Young was in the habit of murdering his
wives when he became tired of them. Sister
Horne looked the speaker in the face and asked,
"And did you believe such trash as that?" "I 
did, for I knew nothing to the contrary." "I
am surprised," said Sister Horne, "that any
sensible woman should credit such falsehoods.
No man loved his family more dearly than did
Brigham Young, and he was greatly beloved
by them." The lady expressed pleasure at
hearing these statements in emphatic refutation
of the outrageous slander. 
Mr. Editor, here was one of Utah's "down-
rodden" women, "escaped" from her home

[Column 2]
among the Mormons, defending their religion
and bearing testimony of its truth after fifty-
two years of personal experience among that
people, frequently saying she would be glad to 
return to her mountain home among the
Saints.
	Now let the bawling Jarman, or any other
defamer of Utah's women, forever hold his
peace; for here is a living rebuttal to his foul
aspersions in regard to them.
	No freer women live on the earth than the
women of Utah, and nowhere else are they
placed on such equality with men; nor is her
virtue more carefully and jealously guarded
than among the Mormons, as evidenced by the
testimony of Sister Horne. 
Your brother, etc.,
GEO G. HALES.
—Millennial Star.


DESCRIPTIVE LETTER. 

	MURRAY, Idado, Sept. 5, 1888.
*	*	We had to stop over at Umatilla
twenty-three hours at the most miserable hotel
one could imagine. All the folks, excepting
myself, strolled down to the banks of the
Columbia River, that runs not more than a
block or two from the hotel.
	Papa met us at Spokane; we stayed not more
than fifteen minutes, and what we could see of
the town from the depot, it looked like a very
pretty, as well as a very enterprising city. We
took the U.P. to the Couer-d'-alene Lake; it is
about an hour's ride. It was real early when
we landed; about half past five a.m. We had
breakfast and dinner on the steamer; it was
my first experience of the kind, and I enjoyed
it immensely, as did all the folks of our party.
How I wished every minnte you were there to
enjoy it with me.
	Oh, I never was on such a lovely lake—I
shall not go back on dear old Salt Lake, don't
for a moment think it, but this was so different.
The water is so very deep that it looks a dark
green color, and on every side the mountains
are covered with dense groves of pine, fir, cedar
and spruce. The captain of the steamer was
so very nice; took us all over it, and showed us
all the points of interest. After we leave the
lovely lake, we go up the Couer-d'-lene River,
which is just as beautiful as the lake in its way.
It bends and winds around the grand old moun-
tains like some great snake. When we were
about half way up the river, the captain
pointed out a large mountain as Medicine
Mountain; they say the Indians worship it, and
whenever they are sick they come here and
pray to it, thinking it will cure them. A very
strange idea, isn't it? but then, I think it is
quite reasonable, for Indians.
	Along the river's banks there are great piles
of wood, all chopped and split. The Indians
up here are quite industrious; they chop wood
all the time, and sell it to the white men.	*
	I must tell you, dear grandma, about the
old father that traveled with us from Spokane
to the old mission; he was the first white man
that ever came here; he is about eighty-four
years old; and came here fifty years ago. I
cannot at present recall his name, but he is
such a dear old man; the mission have done a
noble work with the red-men in this part of
the country. After we land we take the train
to Osborn, and about a mile or so from where


we start we come to the old mission; they say
the old mission house that was built when they
first came here has not a single nail in it; 'tis
made with wooden pins; I have seen many like
it illustrated in the Harper of the old mission
in Southern Cal. The old father's name is
Father Joset, it just now occurred to me.
	At Osborn we saw from a distance our future
home; that is, the building spot. It is thickly
covered with great tall pines, spruce and firs,
some over a hundred feet high, and at the back,
not many rods away, runs the river. There are
not many buildings there as yet, but as soon
as all build that have lots over there, we will
have quite a town. If you were well I'm sure
you would enjoy the trip over the mountains
from Osborn to Murray, which is about eighteen
miles. You wind first around one mountain
and then another, until it makes one almost
dizzy. Oh, the mountains, the mountsins, they
are so beautiful; our mountains at home are
grand, but these are really beautiful, with their
dense groves of trees and underbrush.
Murray has two streets only; Main St. runs
East and West; the other runs South into Main.
Murray is built in a small gulch, half a mile
across in the widest place. We have two daily
papers and one weekly; quite an enterprising
little place.
	I'm sure you would enjoy sitting out on our
porch, where you could hear the water rushing
down day and night; 'tis so cold at morn-
ing and evening, that one has to wear heavy
clothes.
	Very lovingly,
		VERONA.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL
		  BY M. J. TANNER.
		      [Continued.]
	Ithaca, Monday, May 25th, 1885. Went to
a Presbyterian meeting with my cousin yester-
day, and improved the time making acquaint-
ances among them. There are four sisters and
a niece, all maiden ladies, and not a member of
this branch of the family to transmit the name.
Uncle John Bessac's family will all be gone when
they pass away. They tell me many, many
things of historical interest, and give me the
likeness of my great uncle, Henry Bessac, and
related anecdotes of Col. Nichols, who was
their great-grandfather, and mine by one more
removal. During the Revolutionary War, in
which he took an active part, Grandfather
Bessac was at the house of his father-in-law,
Col. Nichols, when it was attacked by tories.
A shot came through the window, grazing his
head; failing to kill him, they entered and beat
him over his head, the scars of which he
carried the rest of his life. They showed me
a letter, of which I kept a copy, written a
short time before his death.
	Wednesday, May 27. Weather pleasant.
Get another letter from home; all is well.
Answer it, and go with Cousin Calista to see
the Cornell University, which is on the hill
just above the town. The stage takes us up
the hill, and we walk to the conservatory. The
grounds are very pleasant. We go through
the building, and admire the flowers, the loveli-
est I ever saw. Go over to the main building,
and see the museum. Such a variety of stuffed
animals in glass cases. The first we notice is a
Bengal tiger; measures twelve feet from his
nose to the tip of the tail; he is a handsome
animal, but I admire him just where he is. In
the same case is a wild cat and several speci-
mens of house cat, another tiger and some
skeletons that I cannot name. In another case
is a noble looking deer, a camel and calf camel,
some skeletons, and a double calf, two heads,
two tails, two sets of legs and one body. There
are monkeys, snakes and birds, and a very
[Column 2]
handsome black bear, with a history; he never
killed anybody. The tiger had a history, too;
he was a man eater. Bones of a mastadon and
fac similes of skeletons, without labels; two
enormous turtles—a man might crawl inside
them. In the next story we see curiosities
from the sea; many of them are fac similes
made of colored glass, and show us the beau-
ties of the ocean; sponge and coral in great
variety, and a great variety of birds, some of
them very beautiful. It is time to close, and
we have to leave without going to the next
story.
	Thursday, 29th. Visit the farm or country
seat at Brookside, on the bank of Geauga Lake.
The rocks here are slate, and the lake is very
clear and pretty. The youngest sister lives
here during the summer, and their brother's
widow is with her. I am much interested in
them, and have a pleasant visit. We stay all
night and come home on the 11 a.m. train.
Take dinner with Calista.
	Saturday, May 30. This is Decoration
Day, and is a holiday. It rained all the fore-
noon, but in the afternoon we see a great many
people going with flowers to the cemetery. To-
wards evening I go out for a ride with a friend
of my cousin's. I am looking for a letter from
my aunt at Lockport. I do not know the
name of my cousin's husband, I only know her
as Cousin Emily, and the address, which is
No. 111, Vine St., as I have addressed all
my letters to my aunt.
	Monday, June 1. I intended going to Lock-
port to-day, bot have received no letter. I
have looked among my papers, but find no
name, so I conclude to wait another day.
	Tuesday, June 2. Concluded to travəl on
and take the chance of finding Cousin Emily.
I left Ithaca on the 6 a.m. train, arrived at
Lockport at 12 m. Asked the hackman to 
take me to 111, Vine Street. "What name?"
said the man. "I do not know the name,"
said I, "I only know the number. The lady
I am to meet is Mrs. Bond, but I do not know
the name of the gentleman with whom she is
stopping, I only have the post office address,
which is No. 111, Vine St." "Upper Town or
Lower Town?" "I do not know." "What is
the gentleman's occupation?" "He is a rail-
road man." I gave him the check for my
trunk; he came back, saying it was all right; it
was Robert Duff, and he was looking for me.
I felt quite relieved, for it placəd me in such a
foolish situation. When I drove up Aunt
Permelia came out to meet me. She was very
glad to see me, and my cousin welcomed me
very kindly, and I soon got acquainted. After
tea Cousin Emily and her daughter took me
for a walk. We go to the bridge near the locks.
The freight train, which came in soon after I
did, tipped some of their cars off the bridge,
which is over a very deep ravine or gulf,
through which the canal passes. Fortunately
they were near the bank, and the damage is
not as much as it might otherwise have been.
It was caused through the breaking of a wheel.
No lives were lost, but it is a great deal of
work to get the cars back on the track again,
and is an inconvenience to other trains that
wish to pass. We went down on the locks and
watched a boat go through. It is certainly a
wonderful piece of engineering skill. It is
built with immense stones, and looks as if it
might defy the wear of ages. They are made
to carry boats up and down hill. They form
boxes in which the boat enters, when a gate is
shut down, and the water fills in until the boat
raises on a level with the next box or lock. It
is drawn in by means of a span of mules on
the tow path. Another gate is closed behind
it, which floats it to a level with the next lock.
So it goes to the top of the hill. The boats
come down on the other side by the same pro-
cess. One channel is to go up and the other
to go down. Between the channels is filled
[Column 3]
with solid masonry steps, leading from one level
to another. Stone steps lead down the bank,
and everything in the evening air is "stone
cold."
	We return to the house, stopping on the
way at a grocery store to make a few pur-
chases. The proprieter says he keeps free
lunch: " A glass of water and cold shoulder."


A PLEASANT PAYTY.

	On Saturday, Sept. 8th, 1888, a surprise
party was given by the 1st Ward Primary
Association of Richfield, in respect to Bishop
Poulson and Bro. Peterson, who were to start
for Provo the following Monday to stand their
trials for unlawful cohabitation.
	At 2  o'clock p.m. the Presidency and mem-
bers of the Association, their parents, together
with the leading brethren and sisters of the
city (making a total of 160), gathered at the
Social Hall, and awaited the arrival of the
brethren. After they came, the meeting was
opened with singing and prayer. There was
an appropriate programme, consisting of songs,
recitations, essays; etc., rondered by the child-
ren; also some interesting remarks, made by
Bishop Joseph S. Horne, Bro. N. C. B. Orrock,
Simon Christenson and W. G. Baker. Bishop
Poulson and Bro. Peterson expressed their
gratitude for the respect shown to them, and
thanked the people for the same; said they
were greatly surprised. They were presented
with a few dollars as a token of remembrance
from the Association.
	The tables were then spread with delicious
and various kinds of picnic, and  blessed by
Bro. Victor E. Bean. The people then par-
took of the refreshments.
	There was a special meeting called the same
afternoon, for the purpose of reorganizing the
Association. Stake Prest. Lucy Heppler pre-
sided. Sister Nancy M. Nebeker, who had
been laboring as President in the Association
for the past six years, and having had to con-
tend with very poor health for three years,
read her resignation, which was accepted, and
she was honorably released, having done a
very noble work, and being very much beloved
by the children.
	Sister Minnie A. Nebeker was put in as
President, with Ellen Oberg and Olena Olsen
as her Counselors.
	Sister Heppler gave instructions to the new
officers and children; thought Sister Nebeker
and her Counselors had done a very noble
work, and had been interested in the welfare of
the Association, and in teaching the children
true principles.			
	Bishop Poulson arose and remarked, that
President Nancy M. Nebeker and Coun. Ruth
Hayward had labored faithfully in the Prim-
ary, and had done a noble work, and would
receive a great reward for their labors.
	The officers were set apart to their different
offices, and the meeting was dismissed. Every
body returned to their homes feeling that they
had spent an agreeable and enjoyable after-
noon.
	On Sept. 22nd a surprise was given by the
new President and the Association to President
Nancy M. Nebeker and Coun. Ruth Hayward,
in honor of their faithful labors in the Primary.
Sister Nebeker was presented with a rug, and
Sister Hayward with a quilt. Other presents
were given to them, the rug and quilt being
made by the children. Picnic was partaken of,
and a nice programme rendered.
	Very respectfully,
		A. N.


He who comes up to his own idea of great-
ness must always have had a very low standard
of it in his mind.—Hazlilt.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TO MRS. E. L. SAXON AND MRS.
CLARA B. COLBY.

	Sister Workers, in the cause
	Of God's mighty Truth and laws,
	May His Spirit guide and bless,
	Leading you to sure success.

	And it will, for Truth is strong,
	Right is right, and wrong is wrong;
	Error lifted ne'er so high,
	Must be crushed, must fall and die.

	Temperance, Purity and Love,
	Truth's own children, born above,
	Sent with Unity to earth,
	Hold the power of all true worth.

	And gainst these the world now fights,
	While in evil it delights,
	But Intelligence must win
	Power o'er ignorance and sin.

	Vile Intemperance must be bound,
	Liberty again be crowned,
	Freedom's enemies be slain,
	Truth and Justice rise and reign.

	Temperance Unity and Love;
	Virtue's offspring born above.
	These, the pure are fighting for,
	In the world's great moral war.

	Lo! the pathway must be paved,
	And our favored land be saved,
	Sister Workers, do your best
	GOD and Israel for the rest.

		LULA.

	In behalf of the ladies of the Latter-day Saints, Salt
Lake Assembly Hall, Tuesday, Sept. 25th, 1888.


[Column 1]

THE OLD GARRET.

	In the old-fashioned garret! Methinks, I
hear some one say rubbish! that's all there is
in a garret. Not so fast, gentle reader; allow me
to tell you that in the garret there is inspira-
tion for the muse, and for me there is romance
in the old New England garrets, which haunts
me still, and

		"Oft in the stilly night,
		Ere slumber's chain hath bound me, 
	Fond memory brings the light,
		Of other days around me."

And I find myself among the "old lumber" in
the selfsame garret where I played so much
when a child and I wrote my first poor verses,
at eight years old, and where I was continually
making new discoveries of old lace and rib-
bons for my dolls. There is as much poetry
in it as there is in the parlor, and more. Par-
lors are very prosy, prim affairs, and one is
always afraid of doing the wrong thing in one
of those old-fashioned ones, that are never
opened except on grand occasions; and never,
one might almost say, for children. I remem-
ber parlor chairs, with their straight, upright
backs, and funny, tall legs, used to seem to
stare at me, when a little girl I crept in softly
to take a peep around; and I said then, and I
maintain it still, that I would never shut up the
best room in the house and make it gloomy
and dark, to be used only for company.
	But if there is anything more inspiring than
a musty old garret, it is spring time, groves,
meadows brooks, waterfalls, woods, orchards
and the like, nature's haunts; these are all sug-
gestive and poetical, and especially when the
birds are singing their sweetest notes in the
tree tops, and the boughs nodding and swaying,
keeping a sort of irregular time to the un-
written music of the songsters. Ah, yes, apple-
blossoms, they come with the early spring, and
if I am going to talk of garrets, and old books,
and antiquities generally, and grandmothers,
and old maids, and love letters, I must shut
out the scent of lilacs; the violets and the pink

[Column 2]

and white apple-blossoms, and their dainty,
subtle perfume, or I shall wander off into
dreamland. I must confess that garrets are not
so exquisite or charming as these, but they have
a history, some of them at least.
	I do not know if there are such old houses
standing now, as there were in the country
towns in Massachusetts, thirty-five years ago,
but the pictures of them, outside and in, are
fresh in my mind to-day. I am very much
afraid most of them are remodeled, for this is
a stylish age we are living in; but when I was
a little girl there were many such romantic
places, and each one of them had a garret.
	In one of these, "long, long ago," a little
girl was playing; her dolls were finely arranged
in dainty bits of beautiful things, and she her-
self in such a funny gown (not dresses then,
but gowns), she had found in an old, old
dresser. It was gored in long, narrow strips,
and withal would scarcely fit her little figure,
but it was red and blue changeable silk, bright
and gay, heavy enough to stand alone, and the
short waist, and shorter sleeves, were trimmed
with very yellow lace, just ready to drop to
pieces with age. The child was a quaint one,
and the dress was queerer still—but a spell
seemed upon her, she was always thoughtful,
and at this particular time she was very pen-
sive. I don't mind telling you a few of her
thoughts. She might almost be called vision-
ary, for she seemed to see the future all in a
panorama, spread out before her, very much as
we who have lived long, look back over the
days that are past. She had been rummaging
more than usual, and trying to rake up some-
thing fresh; and she had succeeded, for away in
the furthermost corner of the garret, from un-
der the very eaves of the house, she dragged
out a budget of old papers, tied in bundles. So
sitting upon a broken stool, in her silk and
lace, she began to investigate these old papers.
First of all, she solilquized: "I like old things
that are pretty and have a history, like old
pictures and silks and laces, and beads, and
jewelry, that I hear the big girls talk so much
about. and I dearly love to play here in the
garret, and make believe I am a woman and
all that, but old papers like these are useless.
I can't see what people save them for, unless
they are deeds, or records, or valuables of that
description, and those are always locked up in
desks, and some man carries the key. Yes,
some man, I wonder why women don't? They
have the keys of the parlor and cellar and
pantry, and the big chest of drawers, where
valuable linen is kept, but then I suppose
women have nothing to do with papers, and
documents, and so on."
	But I am afraid I am telling you too much;
I musn't tell you all she thought and felt, but
merely say that she became so fascinated with
the contents of the papers, that she forgot the
curious way in which she was rigged out, and
kept on reading and reading until it began to
grow dim in the strange place, and all the
while through the open window came the
dainty perfume of the apple-blossoms, for it
was springtime then; O so many years ago, I
was about to tell you how many, but I think I
wont, or you might guess how old that little
girl is now, and that would be too bad, you
know, for women, I've heard, seldom like to
have their correct age known. By and by her
sister came to look for her, and made her take
off all her finery, and scolded her too for get-
ting herself so dusty and musty with the old
papers, and told her they were only rubbish
that ought to be burnt, but—(Well, we'll call
her Rosabel) didn't think so, and she went
back day after day, until it was a byword in
the old home, that—Rosabel lived in the gar-
ret. She didn't go there without a purpose,
though, she left off playing with dolls all of a
sudden, and forgot to dress herself up any
more, but she remembered to leave the window

[Column 3]

open to let in the sunshine and the sweet scent
of the lilacs and apple-blossoms, and hour
after hour she would sit so quietly, that the
stillness was almost painful, and yet no one
must disturb her.
	A light had dawned upon her in that out of
the way place, she had found out that women
sometimes put their thoughts upon paper, and
she conceived the idea of making rhymes, or
jingle; that was why she wanted to be so much
alone, and needed the fresh perfume from out-
side; it rested her, and helped clothe her
thoughts. A little at a time the secret leaked
out that Rosabel actually thought she could
write a book. Was this very absurd? Folks
seemed to think so, and her mother, who was
very practical, tried to convince her that little
girls didn't write books all at once, and there
was much good hard work aud study to be
done by way of preparation. That even her
grandmother had studied hard, and had a good
education before she attempted to write those
old love letters, which had so enchanted poor
Rosabel. "You are getting strange notions
into your head," she said to the child, "you
must go away to school and write compositions,
and they must be corrected, and after a long
time it may be that you can write something
readable." Poor Rosabel! how crest fallen!
all her glorious visions of fame were about to
be dispelled, for I will tell you another secret
now, her mother was strong-minded, and wanted
her daughter to be a woman, and not a senti-
mental wishy-washy novel writer. I can't tell
you all Rosabel's life history now, but some
day I am almost certain some little girl or
woman, poking about in a musty old garret will
find  it in manuscript.
		AUNT EM.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	If you want to lift me, you must be above
me.—Emerson.
	It is in length of patience and endurance
and forbearance, that so much of what is good
in mankind and womankind is shown—Arthur
Helps.
	There is a better thing to ask than exemp-
tion or escape from sorrows, even grace to bear
them rightly.—Dr. Maclaren.
	We often excuse our want of philanthropy
by giving the name of fanaticism to the more
ardent zeal of others.—Longfellow.
	You will find the mere resolve not to be use-
less, and the honest desire to help other people,
will, in the quickest and delicatest ways, im-
prove yourself.—Ruskin.
	The true Christian is like the sun, which
pursues its noiseless track and everywhere
leaves the effect of his beams in blessing upon
the world around him.—Luther.
	As men often declare that women are the
"salt of the earth," the quicker some of this
preserving element is used to purify politics the
better.—Geo. R. Scott.
	The government needs woman because she is
different from man, and views things from a
different standpoint, and only by the combined
counsel of the two can the best results be at-
tained.—Mrs. C. A. Dunham.
	Justice requires that women should vote in
"a government of the people, by the people,
and for the people," deriving its just powers
from the "consent of the governed." One-
half of the people cannot justly deprive the
other half of suffrage, and at the same time
tax them. Taxation without representation is
anti-American and unjust—Judge James
Baker.


WOMAN'S	EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	
EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	Editor.
     Published sem-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00, one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
     Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
     EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
     Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
						    SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
     Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.
SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	OCTOBER 1, 1888


VISIT OF MRS. SAXON AND MRS.
			COLBY.
	On the 23rd of September, Mrs. Elizabeth Lisle
Saxon, of Memphis, Tenn., and Mrs. Clara B.
Colby, of Beatrice, Neb., arrived in this city from
the North-West, where they had been for some
weeks traveling and lecturing, and withal, examin-
ing into the subject of woman suffrage in Wash-
ington Ter., and the disfranchisement of the
women citizens by the decision of the Supreme
Court of that Territory, which, as is now well
known, decided that the Territorial Legislature
had not the right to confer suffrage upon women.
In company with Dr. Pratt we met the ladies in
Ogden on the arrival of the Utah Northern, and
accompanied them to the city.  Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young and Mrs. Jane S. Richards met the party
of four at the depot with a carriage, and together
we drove to the residence of Hon. F. S. Richards,
where a delicious lunch was served in the best
style by the genial hostess, Mrs. Emily T. Rich-
ards, to the invited guests.  Mrs. Arthur Brown
was one of the party, and engaged the ladies,
newly arrived, in an animated discussion upon
their favorite topic, woman suffrage.  Hon. F. S. 
Richards was the only gentleman at table, but
bore the honors with becoming grace and dignity,
as is his custom, although it is always more or less
embarrassing to be the only gentleman among so
many ladies, and more especially when a majority
of them are accounted "blue stockings."
	In the afternoon Mrs. Saxon and Mrs. Colby
attended service in the Tabernacle; Elder John
Nicholson was the speaker, and his sermon was
one well calculated to impress the mind of the
stranger with the important truths so forcibly
enunciated.
	The same evening, at eight o'clock, as per pre-
vious announcement, these distinguished public
speakers addressed a good sized audience, in the
Salt Lake Theatre. Mrs. Saxon was the first
speaker, and occupied most of the time. Her
subject, taking it all in all, was social reform,
though one might say temperance, poiltics and
suffrage for women. The lady told much of the
condition and corruption of modern society, and
urged all to come forward and lend their aid in
suppressing vice, in every form, and in whatever
guise. Her appeal was eloquent and touching;
she has an excellent voice and a great command
of language, and expresses her thoughts and 
views clearly and emphatically.
	Mrs. Colby followed her, but in a somewhat
more logical vein; her manner is entirely different
from that of Mrs. Saxon, which makes a most 
pleasing variety, yet the two blend admirably.
Mrs. Saxon has the warm blood of the South in
her veins, which rises to fever heat when dwelling
upon exciting topics, and Mrs. Colby has the cool
and calm manners of the North. She reasons
more and is less emotional. Both are pleasing
[column 2]
in voice and manner, and it would be difficult to
choose which interests most, as they are both
equally earnest, sincere, and in love with their 
profession, besides being eminently qualified to
fill a position upon the public platform.
	Monday morning they were out viewing the
principal points of interest in the city, and ex-
pressed themselves much gratified with the loca-
tion of the city and its surroundings, considering
it, as most strangers do, a very charming valley.
Mrs Saxon had visited Salt Lake in the fall of
1882, and spent several weeks here, and had
cherished (so she stated) many pleasant remem-
brances af Utah, and the people whom she met
while sojourning for a little season among the 
Mormons.
	In the afternoon a reception was tendered the
ladies at the Gardo House, by a committee of
ladies here, in behalf of the women of Zion, and
as an appreciation of the labors and efforts of
these noble workers for the advancement of
women of all lands and climes, and the cause of
temperance, suffrage and social reform, of which
they are such able exponents. Between five and 
six hundred people had been invited, including
His Excellency Governor West, the Hon. Secre-
tary, Judges and U.S. officials, officers at Camp
Douglas and other prominent gentlemen and
ladies, non-Mormon, the authorities of the Church,
the Mayor and City Council, and others, in fact as
many as it was thought possible to introduce during
the three hours allotted to the reception, from two
to five p.m. The affair proved to be pleasant, so
far as one can judge, and certainly there was
nothing wanting on the part of the committee to
make it all that a public reception could be when
hurriedly arranged. It gave the lady visitors an
opportunity to exchange greetings with a larger
number of people than would have otherwise been
possible, and it is hoped that they carried away
some pleasing recollections of their sojourn here,
though it was very brief.
	About half-past five the doors were closed, and
the ladies in whose honor the reception had been
given, with a few invited guests, assembled in the
dining room and partook of refreshments pre-
pared by the committee. It was somewhat in-
formal, yet withal very pleasant; the conversation
was general, and an hour or two was spent in a 
most agreeably social way, chatting of the day,
the people and the impressions made.
	It is, perhaps, out of the usual order to write up
a matter of this kind, and not mention the ladies'
elaborate toilettes, entering into the details of
color, style, and other feminine specialties, but it
must be remembered that this was a reception
given to two very strong-minded representative
women, and, therefore, the writer begs to be ex-
cused for not telling the public who were the most
handsomely dressed ladies, what they wore, and
so on, but we will say that there were a large
number of very interesting elderly ladies, really
matronly, beautiful younger women, and charming
young girls.
	The flowers with which the parlors and ante-
rooms were decorated were a pretty feature of the
gathering, and added, as flowers always do, to the
beauty and grace of the house and its appoint-
ments. There was some music on the piano by
one or more of the young ladies—Misses Dwyer
and Folsom, who excel in the divine art—and a 
song or two by Mrs. Nellie Druce Pugsley, who
has a rare, sweet voice, and one that touches the
tender emotions of the human soul. Her selec-
tions are always choice and in good taste, and
her style of rendering her music is as winning as
her voice is melodious and sympathetic.
	In the evening at eight o'clock the speakers
were again on the platform in the theatre, with
rather a larger audience before them than on the
evening previous. Mrs. Colby was the first
speaker; she gave an interesting account of the
[column 3]
way in which the ballot had been unjustly wrested
from the women in Washington Territory, and
attributed it on the whole to the whiskey element.
She made some very pertinent and strong points
in favor of the rights and privileges of the women 
in that Territory, that would apply with equal, if
not greater force, to the women of Utah. Her
discourse was full of good, sound arguments from
beginning to end, and no one, it would seem,
could listen to such sentiments set forth, without
feeling that the world of women was awakening to
a higher appreciation of woman's latent powers,
and the possibilities of a more glorious future,
when men and women should stand side by side
with a better comprehension of all the great un-
derlying questions that must be solved, before
the establishment of a "government for the peo-
ple and by the people," Mrs. Saxon's discourse
was of woman in the past, going back to the days
of Scripture, and the days of Rome and Greece,
and giving many incidents in the history of na-
tions and kingdoms, in which women figured
prominently. She dwelt much upon the sacrifices
and heroism of women, and especially of mothers,
and the injustice and ingratitude of men, yet sum-
ming up the whole matter, she threw the great
responsibility of much that is wrong in modern
society upon the women "who have all the rights
they want," and dwell in fine houses and happy
homes, indifferent to the wrongs that cry so loudly
for the help and redress, that might come if all
such women would put forth a helping hand, in
the great moral warfare that has begun, instead of 
sinking down in helpless weakness, content be-
cause their own life has been "cast in pleasant
lines."
	Tuesday morning, at ten o'clock there was a
meeting for women only, in the Assembly Hall,
the subject, "Social Purity," the very topic on
which Mrs. Saxon succeeded in making a sensa-
tion in Washington, during the International
Council. The main body of the building was
pretty well filled though the house would cer-
tainly have been crowded, had there been more
time to circulate the notice. Mrs. Saxon had
several times expressed a wish to hear the hymn,
"O Zion," sung, so the meeting opened with the
hymn, "O ye mountains high," etc, chorus, "O
Zion." A very earnest prayer was offered by
Sister Zina D. H. Young, after which Mrs.
Saxon addressed the ladies on the subjetc an-
nounced for her lecture.
	It would be utterly impossible to give even a
brief synopsis of her remarks here, but may here-
after give some items from it; however it was a 
most fitting theme for the mothers and daughters
gathered there, and was presented in a way that
will be sure to produce earnest thought in the
minds of those, who have not given much attention
to this important subject, and at any rate Mrs.
Saxon described pathetically the vices and crimes
that exist to such an alarming extent in the out-
side world, which must have been new to most of
the young women present. Mrs. Colby spoke
briefly but not with the enthusiasm manifested
in the former speaker. As she is a much younger
woman and with less experience in the evils that
are prevalent in great cities, she could not be ex-
pected to have the same zeal and fervor in pre-
senting the picture, as Mrs. Saxon, who has had
thirty years experience in dealing with this and
other weighty matters, that touch the vital forces
of the hearts of every true mother in the land.
Mrs. Colby is very practical and reasons admira-
bly; she likes to get at the bottom of things, and
weigh and measure them. She spoke to the 
ladies about her paper, the Woman's Tribune,
of which she is the editor and manager, and a very
able and efficient one she is too. During the time
of the International Council and Convention
of the National Woman Suffrage Association last
Spring, she published her paper daily in Washing-
ton, D. C., giving everything pertaining to


that remarkable event and the speeches of the
ladies and papers read in full.
	The Woman's Tribune is the official organ
of the National Woman Suffrage Association and
is reliable authority on all questions connected
with this movement. Mrs. Colby has good 
reason to be proud of her paper, and as it is a
national affair it is of course well supported.
She succeeded in obtaining quite a number of
subcribers in this city and also in Ogden when
she spoke there after leaving Salt Sake.
	A point inadvertently touched upon by Mrs.
Saxon in her discourse aroused the fire of Mor-
monism in the hearts of many Mormon women,
and seemed to call for expression in reply,
therefore when Mrs Colby resumed her seat. Sis-
ter Zina in her dignified motherly way rose and
bore a powerful testimony to the truth of the Gos-
pel, and the divinity of the mission of Joseph
Smith.  Her language was eloquent and her emo-
tions were so intensified that she poured forth her
words like a volume.  It was impromptu, but it was
all the more electrifying, and it told upon the audi-
ence in tones not to be mistaken.  Mrs. Saxon
was evidently deeply moved, and requested the
privilege of closing the meeting with prayer.
Mrs. Charlotte Ives Kirby occupied a few mo-
ments, but the spell of Sister Zina's simple and
powerful eloquence was so effective that the in-
fluence could not be easily dispelled.  The Dox-
ology  was sung and Mrs. Saxon offered in
language most sublime and eloquent a fervent and
heartfelt prayer.  In our next issue we will give
the trip to Salt Lake, on Tuesday, afternoon of a 
party of ladies and gentlemen, and the visit to the
Industrial Home on Wednesday morning prior to
the departure of the ladies on Wednesday after-
noon.
	An amusing instance of the power of the im-
agination is related in a New Orleans paper as an
experiment of a Dr. Durand.  The physician
wished to test the practical effect of mind-disease
and gave a hundred patients a dose of sweetened
water.  "Fifteen minutes after, entering apparent-
ly in great excitement, he announced that he had
by mistake given a powerful emetic, and prepara-
tions must be made accordingly.  Eighty out of
the hundred patients became thoroughly ill, and
exhibited the usual result of an emetic: twenty
were unaffected.  The curious part of it is, that,
with very few exceptions, the eighty 'emeticized'
subjects were men, while the strong-minded few,
who were not to be caught with chaff, were
women."—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


"LIFE OF JOSEPH SMITH."
	The new work, entitled, the "Life of Joseph
Smith," has just recently been published at the
office of the Juvenile Instructor.  Apostle Geo.
Q. Cannon is the author, and one need hardly say
it is exceptioually well written, when the author's
name is given.  His ability as a journalist, editor
and author, is well established, and the Latter-day
Saints, who so love the memory of Joseph, their
beloved martyr-prophet, and his brother, Hyrum,
the martyr-patriarch, will, we are sure, have great
pleasure and satisfaction in reading and possess-
ing a book containing their history, recorded by
one whose accuracy in all matters of historical
data can be safely relied upon.  We give below
the author's preface and it speaks for itself in
tones not to be mistaken of the genuineness and 
truthfulness of the history.  No writer could have
a more sublime theme than the man (Joseph Smith
the Prophet), and the work established by him in
the dispensation of the fulness of times.
			AUTHOR'S PREFACE.
	"Joseph and Hyrum are now dead; but, like the
first martyr, they yet speak.  Their united voice
is one of testimony, admonition and warning to
the world.


"They lived men of God. They died pure and
holy, sealing their testimony with their blood.
	"No men ever suffered greater persecution than
they; no men were ever less understood by their
generation.
	"It is in the hope that the Saints may find joy in
reading of their beloved Prophet and Patriarch,
and that the world may judge more fairly of these
benefactors of mankind, that this book is writ-
ten.
	"To the Author its preparation has been a lov-
ing duty. In the midst of a somewhat busy and
laborious life, he has found comfort in the con-
templation of this great subject. The closing
chapters, detailing the final sufferings upon earth
of the Prophet of God and his ever-constant
brother, were finished in a prison for adherence
to the principles which they taught, and for this,
the Life is invested with a dearer regard. To
send the work away now is like being torn from
a beloved companion when most the solace of his
friendly presence is needed.
	"In some respects this volume may be imperfect;
the circumstances which surrounded its prepara-
tion were not favorable to the collection and
arrangement of materials. But it is believed to be
truthful and just.
	"To many friends the Author is indebted for
information here embodied; and he takes this oc-
casion to thank them, hoping to live yet to meet
them and express his gratitude in the flesh.
	"That the sublime example and inspired teach-
ings of Joseph, the Prophet of the Last Dispensa-
tion, may be of eternal benefit to all who read this
Life, is the heart-felt wish of
		"THE AUTHOR.
	Utah Penitentiary, Oct. 1, 1888.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	SISTER ZINA D. H. YOUNG, President of the Re-
lief Society, has returned recently from her visit to
the North-west. Sister Zina left the city last
Spring, April 24, and on her trip via. Portland
visited her son Lieut. W. Young remaining there
a few days, then proceeding to Alberta, which she
reached on the 7th of May, after a pleasant and
happy season spent with her beloved daughter,
Zina Y. Card, who, by the by, has a little girl,
born while "Aunt Zina" was there, and named Zina.
and other friends, she bade good-bye for a little
time, and returned home by way of Montana,
reaching this city on the 16th inst. in excellent
health and spirits to renew her labors here in the
important mission to which she has been called
and assigned.
	ON Tuesday, 18th of September, in company
with Sisters M. I. Horne and B. W. Smith we at-
tended the Annual meeting at Sandy, Mrs. W.
Olsen, presiding. The report of the last year and
minutes of the last yearly meeting were read and
showed their affairs to be in good condition. At
noon a sumptuous dinner was served in the So-
cial Hall of which about a hundred people par-
took. At the afternoon meeting the officers of
the stake and ward were presented and sustained.
A good spirit prevailed and much good instruc-
tion was imparted during the day. Several breth-
ren were present and those who spoke gave the
sisters every encouragement possible.
	THE Fair, which will open in this city on the
third of this month (October), will be quite an
 event in the history of Utah, as it gives promise
of being of much importance to those interested
in building up the Territory, and to display its in-
dustries, manufacturies and specimens of its re-
sources also. The building is a substantial one
of handsome brick, and well designed for its
purpose. As the time of the opening of the Fair
draws near, much enthusiasm on the subject is
perceptible. The directors are certainly energetic
and persevering, and are methodically arranging
[ COLUMN 2]
and carrying out the desired purpose. Success
to the Fair and to those who are doing the head
work, and so forth.
	ON the 25th of August, in company with Sisters
P. L. Kimball and E. S. Taylor, we attended the
annual meeting of the Relief Society of Union.
Mrs. E. Richards is the venerable President, and
Mrs. M. A. Smart a most able and efficient Secre-
tary. The annual report and minutes of last
annual meeting were read, and some other busi-
ness transacted. The reports showed the Society
to be in a flourishing condition. Much good in-
struction was given. At noon  there was a dinner
prepared for a number of the guests at the residence
of Coun. M. H. Brady. Another meeting was
held in the afternoon, at which much encourage-
ment was given by Coun. E. S. Taylor and other
visitors, and many testimonies were borne by the
local sisters. The Bishop was present at the
meeting, and addressed the sisters in the after-
noon, instructing them in the performance of their
duties, and encouraging them in the good work of
relieving the poor and comforting the downcast,
etc. Sister Kimball, in her remarks dwelt much
upon the early days, when Joseph the Prophet
was among the people, his teachings to her and
others.
	ON Monday, the 17th of September, Apostle
Geo. Q. Cannon was sent to the Penitentiary,
having voluntarily given himself up, knowing that
an indictment had been found against him for un-
lawful cohabitation, long before, on which account
he had been a long time in exile. This is the
second time an Apostle has been sentenced under
the Edmunds law. The first of the Apostles
to suffer imprisonment was Bro. Lorenzo Snow,
a veteran in the ranks of the Twelve. It seems a
remarkable thing, that in free and enlightened
America, men should be punished as criminals
because of the exercise of their religious convic-
tions; men with whom no fault could be found ex-
cept carrying out a principle given as a command-
ment from the Almighty. Yet such are the facts
before the world. Geo. Q. Cannon in the Con-
gress of the United States, when a Delegate from
Utah, was recognized there by members and
others, ladies and gentlemen of culture and re-
finement, and of the highest social standing, as a
man free from every appearance of evil; exem-
plary in word and deed, and in deportment.
Every person who approached him or associated
with him, felt this, and instinctively knew him to
be an upright, conscientious man. It was the
good fortune of the writer to hear such testimony
from a number of people in the city of Washington,
both from men and women, when they spoke of
the Utah Delegate. Now, instead of a seat in
the house of Congress, he occupies a prison cell,
but his heart is as pure, and his life as blameless
as when he mingled with the nation's statesmen,
and the love of the people will be increased. The
prayers of the Latter-day Saints, and their child-
ren, the Sunday School children of Zion, are
offered daily in his behalf to the God of Israel,
and He will answer them in blessing upon his
head, and his prison life will be cheered, and the
time seem short to him, by reason of the mighty
faith exercised in his behalf. Be of good cheer,
for "the Lord will comfort Zion."


PAST, PRESENT AND FUTURE.

"The path of duty is the only path of safety."

	I speak of the past with my heart filled with
emotion and gratitude, that our Heavenly Father
permitted us in this dispensation to be blest with
Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith to dwell with us to a
good old age; she who has ever been faithful and
true even to the end, diligent in seeking to establish
the cause of truth, and ever encouraging her sis-
ters to persevere and press forward in the work.


How nobly she bore her trials! knowing He in
whom she trusted, would do all things well. Her
blessed presence in person is now remembered
with the past, but we have her grand example with
us still.
	At the present time we have nine of her books,
and oft we have in words the fragrance of the
silent emotions of her soul when alone commun-
ing with her Maker, and sipping from the fountain
of life, to bless and cheer others while struggling
along, and to lead them on to victory.
	The present day is of eternal worth to us all,
having had the privilege of having time allotted
to us to make our record of obedience, like our
Elder Brother, to the laws of life eternal, that
we may know by contrast a fullness of glory.
	For the future, my dear sisters, I trust our re-
cord may grow brighter, although trembling with
weakness, as experience gives us a knowledge of
the power there is in love and union, and seeking
the best good of all, in attending to our daily
duties.
	And that nothing may hinder our attaining to a
fulness of celestial glory, is the prayer of,
		ZINA D. H. YOUNG,
	President of all the Relief Society.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ANNIVERSARY.

	Salt Lake City, October 1st, 1888. This is the
anniversary of my father, Wm. Huntington, and
family of seven leaving their home in Watertown,
New York, to gather to Kirtland with the Saints.
There are still three of the number remaining in
the Church, living in Utah. Fifty years to-day
since we went into Adam-ondi-Ahman. Also the
same day of the month, in 1855, I moved into the
Lion House.
	Many are the incidents this day brings to mind,
but many more joys than sorrows on this our up-
ward march.
		Z. D. H. Y.


VISIT TO FARMINGTON PRIMARY.

	In company with Sister Ellen C. Clawson, on
Saturday, Sept. 29, I went to Farmington to attend
the Primary Conference and Fair.
	In the morning we passed through the Court
House. It was surprising to see what the ingen-
uity and industry of the children had accom-
plished in the useful and ornamental articles they
had spread there for gratified parents and friends
to look upon. One room was devoted especially
to the offerings to the Deseret Hospital from the
Davis County children; the many cans fiiled
yearly, dried fruit, etc., and a nice cheese, made 
by a little boy, for which please accept thanks on
behalf of the board.
	Sister Aurelia Rogers, the County Prest. of P.
A., must have been highly gratified with her able
assistants and the kindly presence of the Bishop,
Counselors and parents. A good spirit prevailed,
and we had a very enjoyable time.
	 	Z. D. H. Y.


TERRITORIAL CONVENTION.

	A Territorial Convention of the People's Party
s hereby called to convene at the City Hall, Salt
Lake City, on Monday, the 8th day of October,
A. D., 1888, at 12 o'clock m., for the purpose of
nominating a candidate for delegate to the Fifty-
first Congress.
	The number of delegates to compose the Con-
vention had been apportioned to the several coun-
ties as follows, to wit:
	Beaver County, 2; Box Elder, 3; Cache, 6;
Davis, 3; Emery, 1; Garfield, 1; Iron, 2; Juab, 2;
Kane, 2; Millard, 2; Morgan, 1; Piute, 1; Rich 1;
Salt Lake 16; San Juan, 1; Sanpete, 6; Sevier, 2;


Summit, 2; Tooele, 2; Uintah, 1; Utah, 9;
Wasatch, 1; Washington, 2; Weber, 6. Total,
75.
	The County Central Committees are requested
to take immediate steps in their respective coun-
ties for the election of delegates to the Territorial
Convention.
	By order of the People's Territorial Central
Committee.
		ELIAS SMITH, Secretary.


CLASS IN OBSTETRICS.

	The Drs. Shipp will commence their next class
in obstetrics on Monday, Oct. 15th, 1888. Ladies
wishing to join the class will please communicate
immediately either with Dr. E. R. Shipp, 16 Main
St., or Dr. M. C. Shipp, 59 S. First East St.


[Column 1]

R. S.,Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

CLIFTON, IDAHO.

	Minutes of Relief Society meeting, held
May 3rd, 1888, for the purpose of reorganizing
our Society. Our worthy Prest., Jane M.
Howell, having resigned on account of her
having removed from the ward for a short
time. The visitors present were Stake Prest.
Elizabeth Fox, of Franklin, Sister Lewis and
Sister Crawshaw, of Oxford; local officers,
Bishop W. F. Garner, Counselors John S.
Bingham and Martin Hendersen, Prest. Jane
M. Howell and Counselors.
	After Prest. Howell had resigned her office,
the Society was reorganized, with D. E. Dudley,
President; S. E. Bingham and Janette Davis,
Counselors; M. A. Garner, Secretary; E. M.
Henderson, Ass't Secretary; Amelia J. Dixon,
Treasurer.
	We had an enjoyable time, and much good
and timely instruction was given by all the
speakers present.
		M. A. GARNER, Secretary.

BEAR LAKE STAKE.

	The Relief Society of the Bear Lake Stake
held their Twentieth Semi-annual Conference
at St. Charles, July 7th and 8th, 1888, Prest.
Julia P. Lindsay presiding. Saturday 10 a.m.
Singing, "Come, ye children of the Lord."
Prayer by W. M. Allred. Singing. Roll
called. Minutes of previous conference read
and approved.
	Prest. Julia P. Lindsay made a few opening
remarks. Reported the Societies as being in a
good condition, as far as she knew.
	The presidents of the different branches of
the Society gave in their verbal reports, which
were favorable.
	Coun. E. Collings made a few remarks, in
which she plainly set forth some of the duties
pertaining to the Latter day Saints, and showed
the good results of obedience to God's laws.
	Annie Laker, Stake Prest. of the Primary
Association, referred to some of the duties
resting upon the members of the Relief So-
ciety.
	Closing remarks were made by Mrs. Lewis
and W. M. Allred. Singing, "Love at home."
Benediction by Elder Noall.
	Sunday, 2. p.m.: Singing, "When trials
shall be no more," etc. Prayer by Prest. Geo.
Osmond. Singing, "I know that my Redeemer
lives." Sacrament was then administered.
	Prest. Julia P. Lindsay addressed the con-
gregation a short time. In her remarks she
spoke of the duties that rest upon mothers in
regard to teaching their children the principles
of the Gospel. Desired the sisters to be dili
gent in their labors to assist in building the
Tabernacle; also in storing grain.
	Prest. Geo. Osmond made a few very appro-
priate remarks.

[Column 2]

	Prest. James H. Hart said, "We are all
members of the Church of God, and there is a
labor for every one to perform." Spoke of
the progress the Saints are making, of the
beautiful cities and towns they have built, and
of the work there is still to be done. 
Choir sang an Anthem. Conference ad-
journed until the 2nd Saturday and Sunday in
January. Benediction by Bishop John Hunt.
		LOTTIE PRICE, Cor. Sec.

CLARKSTON AND NEWTON P. A.

	Minutes of a conference of the Primary
Associations of Clarkston and Newton Wards,
held in Newton, August 18th, 1888, Prest.
Bessie Griffin presiding. Singing, "Beautiful
Zion." Prayer by Bishop Hans Funk. Sing-
ing, "Now let us rejoice," etc. Minutes of last
conference read and approved: A song, "The
Old Fashioned Well," was rendered by Emma
Rigby, Mina and Minnie Funk; Bible Recita-
tion, "Christ's Sermon on the Mount," Lucy
Baker; Recitation, "If We Knew" Miss
Bessie Griffin.
	Prest. Bessie Griffin, of Newton, reported
the Primary of that ward. The enrollment
was ninety, average attendance Thirty-five.
	A card on "Good Manners" was recited by
Sadie and Susette Shumway.
	Prest. Caroline Thompson, of Clarkston, re-
ported the Primary of the Clarkston Ward.
	Katie Godfrey and Penny Thompson, of the
Clarkston Ward, gave a song.
	Bishop Funk said he was pleased to meet
with the children; was pleased with the pro-
gramme; encouraged the children to attend
their meetings.
	A Recitation by Maggie Jensen, of Clarks-
ton. Sister Pike, of Logan, said she was
pleased to meet so many of the little children;
would have been pleased to see more boys
present, and gave many good instructions.
	A song by Jessie Rigby. Bro. White, of
Clarkston, made some excellent remarks.
	Sister Crowther, of Logan, said she was
pleased to see the children taking their parts
so well, and made encouraging remarks.
	Adjourned till 2 p.m. Singing. Benedic-
tion by Solomon Stone.
	Afternoon meeting, 2 p.m.: Called to order
by the Prest. of the Newton Primary. Sing-
ing, "Open the door for the children." Prayer
by Bro. Amos Clarke, Singing. A recitation
was given by Wm. Clarke, of Clarkston; Bible
reading, Matilda Atkinson, of Clarkston; Song,
Susette Shumway of Clarkston.
	Coun. Mary Larsen. of Newton, spoke a few
words. Sister Crowther, of Logan, gave a
recitation, entitled, "Stena;" Song, "Grandpapa's
Spectacles," was given by Janie Gorden, of
Logan.
	Sister Traber, of Providence, said she was
glad to meet with the children; thought we
had a very good Primary; they had about 200
in their Primary. Encouraged the boys to
come to meeting, and take the front seats, and
gave much good counsel. A recitation was
given by Harriet Griffin, of Newton. A card
on the "Knowledge of God" was given by Annie
and Rosie Jooslie and Percie Butters, of
Clarkston; Recitation, Janie Pack; Recitation,
"Annie's Ticket," Stena Hansen.
	Bro. Amos Clarke, of Newton, gave some
good instructions to the children.
	Sister Christensen, of Newton, instructed the
children to be kind and obedient to their par-
ents.
	Sister M. Larsen, of Newton, made a few
remarks; as also Mary Beck.
	Sister Pike, of Logan, spoke of kindness to
the aged. Encouraged the children to attend
the meetings, be kind to their parents and
leader, and the Lord would bless them.
	Bishop H. Funk, of Newton, said he was


[Column 1]
pleased with the day's proceedings; thanked the
sisters for their visit, etc.
	Prest. Bessie Griffin, of Newton, said she
was pleased to see so many sisters from other
wards, and hoped we might have the privilege
to meet often again.
	Singing, "I'll serve the Lord while I am
young."	Benediction by Bro. White of
Clarkston.
			Mary Beck, of Newton, Sec.

			Richmond P. A. 
	Report of the Ninth Annual Meeting of the
Richmond Primary Association, held June 1st,
1888, Prest. Mary Allsop presiding. Meeting
commenced at 10 a.m., by singing, "Gladly
Meeting." Prayer by Georgie Burnham, a
member of the Primary. Singing, "Children's
Song." Minutes of the last annual meeting
read and approved. Yearly report read and
adopted. The officers were presented and sus-
tained for the following year: Mary Allsop,
President; Mary Christensen, Maggie W.
Thompson, Harriet Fisher and Mary Merrill,
Counselors; Harriet E. Lawrence, Secretary;
Jane Hyer, Ass't Secretary; Carlton Burnham,
Treasurer.
	Programme: Music by the Primary Martial
Band; Recitation, Andrew Fieltman; Freddie
and Emma Merrill sang a song; Historical Ad-
dress, Rachel Knapp; Owal and Frank Hen-
dricks, a dialogue; Osmond Stottard, a song,
"Welcoming" Stake Prest. Jane E. Molen.
	Sister Emma Pike, of the Stake Presidency,
congratulated the Primary Band; counseled
the children to be kind and obedient to their
parents and teachers. Recitation, May Webb,
"Our Primary;" Hattie Fisher and Florence
Thompson, a song, "Nay, Speak No Ill;"
	Sister Almira J. Merrill  addressed the
children, and gave good instructions. "Never
be naughty and unkind to your brothers and
sisters; be courteous to all you meet."
	Prest. Jane E. Molen said she was pleased
to meet with us; complimented the leader of
the Primary Band for his faithful labors in
teaching the boys; hoped that the boys would
be faithful and obedient to their leader.
	Coun. C. Hyer spoke a short time; hoped
the children would all keep the word of wis-
dom.
	Singing, "Beautiful Zion." Benediction by
Bro. C. H. Monson.
	Afternoon session, at 2 o'clock p.m.: Sing-
ing, "I am not too young for God to see."
Prayer by Lucy Merrill, a little girl. Singing, 
"Always Cheerful."  Music by the Band.
Dialogue, Freddie Merrill, Carlton Burnham
and Alfred Woodland, entitled, "Give the
Little Boys a Chance;" Tempe Allen sang a
song, "Why should I Murmur."
	Sister Cornish, Prest. of the Coveville Prim-
ary, exhorted the children to pray for the
brethren who are in exile and prison.
	Cloe and Mary Burnham, a song; Recitation,
George O. Webb; Inez Rainey, a song. Bishop
L. Skidmore spoke to the children, giving
them some excellent instruction.    Minnie
Davenport and Clinton Burnham gave recita-
tions?
	Sister S. A. Merrill spoke a short time; told
the children never to go to bed at night without
praying for the Lord to protect them.  Millie
Hendricks and Susie Thomas sang a song.
	Prest. Jane E. Molen said, "We go to Prim-
ary to learn to be useful.  Girls, always be
kind and good to your brothers, and they in
turn will be kind and gentle with you.  Obey
your parents.  Always wish your parents good
night; pray for the sick; the Lord will hear and
answer the children's prayers.  Anna and
Mabel Knapp, a song.
	Sister Hyde said she had had a truly enjoy-
able time to day with the little children. "May
the Lord bless and preserve you."  Mary
Thompson sang a song.

[Column 2]
	C. H. Monson and D. P. Rainey gave the
children some excellent instruction.
	Prest. Mary Allsop thanked the parents for
coming to the meeting; also the sisters that had
come in; hoped to have health and strength to
be able to teach the children the principles of
the Gospel.
	Singing, "Lord, dismiss us," etc. Benedic-
tion by Bishop Wm. L. Skidmore.
	Statistical and financial report:  Number of
officers, 8; members, 202; officers and members,
210; average attendance, 90; number of meet-
ings held, 48.	In treasury:     Cash remaining
from previous year, $3.40; received from mem-
bers, $1.20; received from Primary entertain-
ment, $27.90; donations for Christmas tree,
$13.22; total amount received, $45.72. Dis-
bursements:  Paid for handkerchiefs for the
Band, $1.50; for writing materials, Bible stories
and pencil, $1.25; presented to the leader of
the Primary Band, $5.00; paid balance on
drums, $2.00; for material for Christmas tree,
$17.67; total amount expended, $27.42.   Cash
on hand, $8.30; Property on hand, $10.00.
		HARRIET E. LAWRENCE, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL PARTY.
	On the 12th of September a party of editors
from Dakota, accompanied by a number of
ladies, while on a flying visit to our city, visited,
among other points of interest, the Tabernacle,
and listened with surprise and rapture to the
melody of the grand organ, produced by the
skillful playing of Joseph J. Daynes; after
which they took  the afternoon train for Gar-
field Beach, to enjoy the Lake and its attrac-
tions. A short ride of questioning expectancy, 
and then with eager haste they secured their
dressing rooms, and soon after were in the water,
some advancing with noisy splashing and ven-
turesome dives, while others proceeded with
more cautious efforts; but all fear soon vanished
in the persuasive luxury of the softly lapping
waves.
	A gladsome picture is presented by the
groups of happy faces, the bright and laughing
eyes of the pleasure seekers, as they dip and
float on the bosom of the buoyant lake; peals
of laughter and gleeful cries of delight float
out on the air, until the onlooker above in the
pavilion merrily smiles from very sympathy.
	When at length the delicious pastime has
been sufficiently indulged in, the pavilion
afforded the next attraction, and the graceful
waltzers kept time to the enticing strains of
music from the uniformed band, which accom-
panied the party; others, too, engaged in con-
versation, the "Saints" and their city being
the main topics. Through the courtesy of Mr.
Davis, manager of the excursion party, we re-
ceived introductions to quite a number, and an
animated colloquy followed; curious but cour-
teous were the visitors in regard to the "very
peculiar" religion of the Latter-day Saints.
When "all aboard" was announced, regret
was expressed that time would not permit of
further conversation, and a cordial invitation
was given, and accepted, to meet again in the
evening, when the broken thread of afternoon
converse was taken up and pleasantly spun
around the room. A moonlight drive with
three of the party, was not the least pleasant
feature of the day's diversion.
	Among those whose brief acquaintance we
shall pleasantly remember is, Mrs. Irene
Adams, a literary lady, who desired to see a
copy of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and received
a promise to have some sent to her address;
also Mr. Davis, Prest. of the Dakota Press
Association, Mr. Bliss and wife, Prest. of the
Dakota Board of Agriculture, Mr. and Mrs.
Alonzo Wardell, Mr. and Mrs. Bronsen, and
others, all of editorial repute, while not least
among them was Reverend Mr. Murray, the
"Cow Boy Preacher" of Dakota.


Withal; it is surprising the mistaken and
improbable notions that many people visit us
with. Surely a wide missionary field is open
to give the truth to those who come in our
midst, as well as those in whose midst we go, 
and thereby remove much prejudice, that
many people carry with them after visiting
our beautiful and prosperous city.
					AUNT POLLY.


HISTORICAL PICTURE.

TO MY FRIENDS:
	Some years ago; while reading the autobiog-
raphy of that noble apostle, Parley P. Pratt,
I was deeply impressed with the scene described
in the paragraphs I will hereafter transcribe,
and at different times, amid my many duties
and cares, my spirit has held communion with
itself, holding up to the eyes of my soul the
picture upon that page of his existence.
	Its pathos and grandeur have lingered when
I have striven to put them aside, and have fol-
lowed me when I have turned to other things.
	Often has that spirit picture seemed to lean
across the space and silence of the years that
have intervened since it transpired, and reach-
ing to the present time, seemed to say; "Who
will embody this midnight's story with shape,
that shall stand forth in power, that by its own
eloquence and truth shall live again and eter-
nally in the hearts of our children, and all
who hereafter shall learn the story of Joseph,
the Prophet!"
	An author's words, however glorious in their
power and beauty, often miss reaching the
heart of the general reader, as gems may be
overlooked among commoner stones; but sculp-
ture and pictures have reached the souls of
even those who cannot read. Even the rabble
in great cities know much of history by monu-
ments alone.
	Among the many scenes of Joseph's life,
more wonderful than fiction, this one, in which
he used the majesty and might of his priest-
hood's authority (almost God-like in the hu-
man), stands perhaps without a rival.
	During the past winter I began work upon
this subject, and after an interruption of three
weeks (caused by a broken wrist), resumed and
completed a pencil drawing. This I took to
Mr. Dan Weggeland, and engaged him to re-
produce the same in a painting, from which
large photographs will be taken.
	While working upon it, Mr. Weggeland
said: "It is the finest thing that has ever been
brought before this people." And he has
spared none of his own genius to do justice to
the subject.
	The picture is the prison scene, lighted by a
lantern. The ruffian guards occupy one side;
Joseph, and Parley, who slept beside him, are
the central figures. Among the other impris-
oned Saints will be recognized Hyrum, Amasa,
Sydney Rigdon and his daughter, Mrs. Robin-
son, with her infant, who was permitted to
nurse and care for her father and husband.
	I have endeavored to portray the moment
when Joseph could no longer endure the taunts
of those vile men, and in the kingly majesty of
his priesthood rebuked them. I have sought
carefully to have the picture one of historical
fidelity, and to faithfully represent the spirit
and emotions of the weary and suffering Saints,
also the terror of the Missouri guards, as de-
scribed by Parley: "In one of those tedious
nights we had lain in sleep until the hour of
midnight had passed. I had listened till I
had become so disgusted, shocked, horrified,
and so filled with the spirit of indignant justice
that I could scarcely refrain from rising upon
my feet and rebuking the guards, but had said
nothing to Joseph or anyone else, although I
lay next to him and knew he was awake. On
a sudden he arose to his feet, and spoke in a
voice of thunder, or as the roaring lion, utter-


ing, as near as I can remember, the following
words:
	" 'SILENCE, ye fiends of the infernal pit.
In the name of Jesus Christ I rebuke you and
command you to be still.  I will not live an-
other minute and hear such language.  Cease
such talk, or you or I die THIS INSTANT!'
	"He ceased to speak.  He stood erect in
terrible majesty. Chained, and without a 
weapon; calm, unruffled and dignified as an
angel, he looked upon the quailing guards,
whose weapons were lowered or dropped to the
ground, whose knees smote together, and who,
shrinking into a corner or crouching at his
feet, begged his pardon, remaining quiet until
a change of guards.
	"I have seen the ministers of justice clothed
in magisterial robes and criminals arraigned
before them, while life was suspended upon a
thread, in the Courts of England; I have wit-
nessed a Congress in solemn assembly to give
laws to nations; I have tried to conceive of
kings, of royal courts, of thrones and crowns
and emperors assembled to decide the fate of
kingdoms; but dignity and majesty have I seen
but once, as it stood in chains, at midnight, in a
dungeon in an obscure village of Missouri.—
Autobiography of Parley P. Pratt, page 229.
	The title of my picture, for which I have
duly made entry for copyright is:
	JOSEPH REBUKING THE GUARD.
	At Richmond Jail, Ray Co., Missouri.
	Should you honor me with your subscription
and the work hereafter fail to meet your ap-
probation, I will return the amount you ad-
vance to assist me.
	Respectfully,
	AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
	South Bountiful, Davis Co., Utah,
	August 25, 1888.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A SPLENDID OFFER.

	The Salt Lake Herald is adopting a novel
and praiseworthy method of securing to its
several editions subscribers. Arrangements
have been made to furnish all those who take
either the Daily, Semi-Weekly or Weekly or
Sunday editions of the Herald with a sewing
machine at one-half to one third the usual
prices. To assure the public that no fear may
be entertained of this machine, it has been
tested by W. H. Rowe, Esq., Superintendent
of the Z. C. M. I. shoe factory, with leather,
heavy cloth and fine goods, and has proven
thoroughly satisfactory. Each machine has
been thoroughly tested, and is supplied with
a complete set of attachments. Four styles
are carried. The cheapest, including the
Daily Herald for one year, is $27.50; including
the Semi-Weekly Herald, $20.50; including the
Sunday Herald, $20.00; including the Weekly
Herald, $19.50.
	If $6.50 more be added to each of these
figures, it will show the value of the dearest
machine, including the papers.
	Full particulars can be had on application
for information.
	It also appears that the Herald Company
have arranged for an extensive drawing of
valuable premiums in connection with the
Semi-Weekly during the coming week. Over
1,000 premiums are promised. The Herald is
evidently up to the times.


[Column 1]
		NOTES AND NEWS.
	
	There are four Siamese ladies studying in
England.
	New York city has ten reformatories for the
rescue and help of fallen women. Fifty years
ago there was not one.

[Column 2]
	Princess Eugene of Sweden has sacrificed
her family jewels to build a  hospital for crip-
ples upon an island off the coast.
	The Empress of Japan is rapidly becoming
one of the best-informed women of her time.
She is a diligent student of German, Russian,
French, and Italian.
	The Directors of the Western Pennysylvania
Medical College in Pittsburg, Pa., have de-
clared against the admission of women as stu-
dents, and refused the applications of six young
women.
	The Association for the Advancement of
Women, better known as the Woman's Con-
gress, will hold its annual meeting November
14, 15 and 16, with preliminary meeting on
the evening of the 13th, at Detroit, Mich.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton has come out
for the Prohibition Party. She says: "In a
critical review of the different party platforms,
I find more promise of social reorganization in
the Prohibition platform than in either of the
others."
	Another woman has passed her examination
and will soon be admitted as a member of the
Suffolk County (Boston) bar. When admitted,
Miss Mary A. Green will be the second Massa-
chusetts woman lawyer, Miss Lelia J. Robin-
son being the first.
	"The Prevention of Prostitution" was the
theme of an able and suggestive paper, pre-
sented by Dr. Rebecca C. Hallowell at the
thirteenth annual meeting of the Alumnae As-
sociation of the Woman's Medical College of
Pennsylvania.
	Cremation of  garbage is to be practiced in
Minneapolis, a furnace for the purpose hav-
ing been authorized by the council. This is
certainly the right way and the only sensible
way to dispose of substances which, uncon-
sumed, pollute the air and water of cities.—Ex.
	An informal reception was given Mrs. Eliza-
beth Cady Stanton by her Chicago friends, at
the Sherman House, on the afternoon of Sept.
2. Addresses were made by Mrs. Stanton, the
Baroness Gripenberg, who was in the city on
her return from the Pacific Coast, and Judge
Waite.
	Clara Barton has given $1.000 out of her
own pocket to the yellow fever sufferers. As
President of the American Association of the
Red Cross, she has been appealed to by the
Jacksonville Board of health to establish a 
headquarters there, and she has given the
necessary orders to the organization throughout
the country to come to the aid of the stricken
city.
	The Chicago Central W. C. T. U. carries on
two day-nurseries (where an aggregate of over
14,000 children were cared for last year), two
kindergartens, two industrial schools, two medi-
cal dispensaries, a waif's Sabbath School, a
nightly gospel Temperance meeting, a free
lodging house for men, where 60,000 were
lodged during the year, and a lunch-room just
opened.
	The poet Whittier is a sweet-souled Quaker,
but even Quakers decline to be slandered. Re-
garding the recent charge of a Southern news-
paper, that Mr. Whittier was an enemy to the
South, the venerable poet recently wrote a
friend: "I was never an enemy to the South or
the holders of slaves. I inherited from my
Quaker ancestry hatred of slavery, but not of
slave-holders. To every call of suffering or
distress in the South I have promptly responded
to the extent of my ability. I was one of the
very first to recognize the rare gift of the
Carolinian poet, Timrod, and I was the intimate

[Column 3]
friend of the lamented Paul H. Hayne, though
both wrote fiery lyrics against the North. I
am sure no one rejoices more heartily than I
do at the prosperity of the Southern States."—
Ex.

	The highest exercise of charity is charity
toward the uncharitable.—Buckminster.


OBITUARY.

	DIED, at Harrisville, August 20th, 1888, Nancy be-
loved wife of Daniel B. Rawson. Deceased was born in
Davenson Co, N. C., March 26 1829. Embraced the
Gospel 1858, and gathered with the Saints in Nauvoo 1842,
in connection with her mother, brothers and sisters; her
father being dead she was obliged to work and help her
mother, untli in 1849 they arrived in Salt Lake Valley; the
same Fall she was married to Brother Rawson, with
whom she had 10 children of whom 2 are dead. She was
a kind, honest and affectionate mother, always a friend of
the poor, and always on hand to assist the Relief Society
whatever help was needed.
	Sister Rawson labored many years as Coun. to the Re-
lief Society in the first organiazation in the Harrisville Ward,
 which office she filled with honor; she also obeyed the ce-
lestial law of marriage, and one can truly say her mission
on earth is filled. As our Heavenly Father has seen fit to
call from us our beloved sister and co-laborer, we, the
members of the Relief Society of West Harrisville Ward,
deeply mourn the loss of onr sister and heartily sympa-
thize with the husband and family in their great bereave-
ment, and ask God our Eternal Father to comfort and
strengthen them aud help us all to be faithful that we may
meet Sister Rawson when our work on earth is done.
		MARY HEGSTED, Prest.
		CHRISTENA HEGSTED, Sec.
	Harrisville, Sept. 27, 1888.


RK. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K.THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
In
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In
fant’s Shoes.
12, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS;WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
Address, DAVID JAMES. Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

