VOL. 17.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 15, 1889.	No. 18.


[For the EXPONENT.]

THE CRUMBS THAT FELL.

Close side by side two neighbors lived,
	And both were poor indeed;
'Twere hard to say, were truth all told,
	Which lived in greater need;
If one had work, his neighbor'd none,
	And each had mouths to feed.

Each one a shaggy pony owned,
	And each a lean ribbed cow,
Which puzzled those of greater means;
	Why do they keep them? how?
For what the brutes eat would feed them,
	I'd sell  them off, I vow!

But oh, the poor folks really prized
	Those creatures rough and dumb,
And pictured them in nobler guise,
	For every heart hath some
Love of possession and kind care,
	Though troubles with it come.

The summer passed with burning drouth,
	The price of hay rose high;
"Good times," said they with hay to sell,
	"Hard times," said those who buy,
And watched their stacks slow sinking down
	As weeks went creeping by.

Now, whether 'twas for company,
	Or whether 'cause 'twas warm,
On the south side of Robert's stack,
	Just after every storm,
Sure as the day came Jamie's stock,
	As though it were no harm.

They leaned across the slender fence
	Till it near broke away,
And calmly licked and calmly chewed
	The precious, high priced hay;
And when well filled they sought repose
	On leaves that round them lay.

Oft Robert's wife all vexed looked out,
	And scarce knew what to do;
"The man's to blame, yet he is poor—
	'So is my husband, too;
The golden creed—'Do unto all
	As you’d have them to you.'

"I think the man has clean forgot,
	Yet, it's as much to me
As 'tis to him. If he should come
	Now to his door and see,
I think he'd take them both away,
	I'd not so careless be."

Then once in wrath she raised aloft
	Her broom, and swift drew near,
To put to flight the hungry things,
	That showed no signs of fear;
And all at once a lesson old
	Came to her strong and clear.

The tale of Lazarus who asked
	The crumbs alone that lay
Beneath the rich man's table, and
	She turned and went away;
"They only get the leaves that fall,"
	An angel heard her say.

So comes to every soul in life
	The choice of right or wrong,
So taught to ev'ry Christian heart
	The tale through ages long;
Though humble be our power to point
	Where we shall yet belong.

		AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
January 21, 1889.


[Column 1]

UTAH'S LADY DELEGATE.

	Mrs. Emily S. Richards, who left here on
the 13th of January to attend the Annual
Convention of the National Woman Suffrage
Association in Washington, as a Delegate
from Utah, arrived at the Capitol previous to
the opening of the Convention, and was al-
lowed time for an address, notwithstanding the
previously arranged programme. Mrs. Rich-
ards was received with considerable applause,
and made a decidedly favorable impression.
We give her speech in full, as published in a
letter to the Deseret News from the special cor-
respondent in Washington.—ED

	"'Tis better to have voted and been disfran-
chised, than never to have voted at all."
	This is a very prosaic paraphrase of a very
poetical sentiment, but it is true, and behind it
lies a great political wrong.
	I am a native born citizen of the United
States, and for fifteen years enjoyed all the
rights and privileges of the elective franchise.
I voted for every kind of elective officer in the
Territory of Utah, from delegate in Congress
to school trustee. I never once sold my vote,
nor was I influenced in casting it by either
fear or favor. I never attempted to repeat; no
man for whom I ever cast a ballot was ever
charged with malfeasance in office, or with any
other violation of his official oath. Yet to-day
I am disfranchised and on the same political
plane as you, my sisters, and the rest of our
sex in this "land of liberty."
	I think I may safely challenge any male
voter of the United States to show a better
use of the rights of American citizenship. I
do make that challenge for myself, and on
behalf of the thousands of women in Utah
whom I represent, and whose political record
is above reproach. And on their behalf, with
all possible respect to the distinguished gentle-
men who sit in Congressional majesty on Capi-
tol Hill, I protest against the wresting from us,
by the right of might, of that franchise which
we had never abused, and which was our vested
right. 
	In 1870 women were given the elective fran-
chise in Utah.
	Subsequently an act was passed by the legis-
lature striking the word male from the law
prescribing qualifications for holding office, so
that women might be equally eligible with men
to any office in the Territory. This act never
became a law because it was disapproved by
the Governor, who is appointed without the
consent of the people, and his vote is absolute,
even when opposed to the unanimous vote of
the entire legislature. And so the will of the
people was defeated by this unrepublican one
man political power.
	Just as one who has loved and lost is always
deemed the best authority upon affairs of the
heart, so I venture to claim a particular knowl-
edge of the use, the power of the franchise in
woman's hands. And the experience which I
gained with the women of Utah should not be
concealed from this Convention; it belongs to
you; it is essentially a part of woman's history
in this great Republic; it is the best practical
illustration of the problem whiah has yet been
given, and it is likely to obtain that pre-emin-
ence for years to come, because in all the seven-
teen years during which the women of Utah
exercised their right to vote, they held the
balance of power between the two parties, and

[Column 2]

no man was elected to office without their ap-
proval.
	During all these years we voted without
disturbance and without injury to the manners,
morals or domestic comfort of the men. We
were able to determine whom we wished to
sustain by our votes, and no one had the right,
the power, and, I will say for our husbands,
brothers and fathers, the wish or desire to pre-
vent, intimidate, or coerce us in the least de-
gree. We were citizens of the United States,
armed with that all-potent yet peaceful politi-
cal weapon, the ballot, and we challenge the
world to show where, in a single instance, we
wielded it wrongfully. And let me say right
here, that we have not had to contend against
the male opposition common in other places,
for the majority of men in Utah believe that
woman was designed by the Creator to be
man's companion in all things, whether in the
Church or in the State, in time and in eternity,
and to share dominion with him over all created
things.
	While we enjoyed the franchise we took part
in the primaries and nominating Conventions,
acted as delegates, and did our share of the
political business.
	Two years ago Congress abrogated the right
of woman's suffrage in Utah, and thousands of
us were summarily deprived of our political
power. We had committed no offense against
the sacred franchise and had violated no law
of our opponents, and, therefore, in their esti-
mation we were not worthy to vote at all. The
same logic would have disfranchised men as
well as women, but their ballots were pre-
served.
	It has been intimated that the women of
Utah were compelled to vote as required by
the men. This is not true. No coercion was
ever attempted, and, if it had been, the effort
to accomplish it would have failed because,
under the law, we had a perfectly secret ballot,
which put it beyond all human power to find
out how any person voted unless the elector
chose to tell.
	It is also an error to suppose that women
voters of Utah used the ballot to uphold or
perpetuate any system or practice in opposition
to the laws, or the will, or common custom of
this country. No such question was ever voted
on at the polls in that Territory. Votes of
men and women alike were merely cast for
local officers, and we chose to elect such men
as we believed would act honestly, fairly and
for the public good, in the interests of tem-
perance, order, morality and economy, and not
for private ends or personal greed. That was
"the head of our offending."
	The deprivation which we have sustained is
not more cruel to us than to you. The con-
tinuance of our political power meant that you
could have pointed to our work as a proof that
the general cause was worthy of success. But
Congress, in the almost infinite wisdom of
legislative man, decreed to dig up the new
budding tree before it could bear fruit and
give seed. It was not within the male purpose
that this little acorn, planted nineteen years
ago, should grow into the sturdy oak.
	But while we have lost our franchise in Utah,
we still retain our property rights. Unmarried
women have all the legal rights of men, so far
as the acquisition and disposition of property
is concerned, whether real or personal. Mar-
ried women have entire control of all the


[Column 1]
property they held at the time of marriage
and can acquire, hold and sell, or otherwise
dispose of real and personal property after
marriage without the consent of their hus-
bands, but the husband must have the consent
of the wife. In addition to this they have the
right of dower, by which they inherit one-third
of the husband's estate at his death. The law
of inheritance is the same from the wife to the
husband as from the husband to the wife; each
inherits from the other under similar condi-
tions. 
	For many years the women of Utah have
been organized into Relief Societies and Mu-
tual  Improvement Associations. Their sym-
pathies have always been with the Woman
Suffrage movement. After the visit to Utah,
last summer, of Mrs. Colby and Mrs. Saxon,
officers of this Association, who lectured on
“Woman Suffrage; the International Council
of Women and the relation of woman’s ballot
to all reforms,” a Woman’s Suffrage Associa-
tion was organized as an auxiliary to the Na-
tional. Its members number about two hun-
dred and are rapidly increasing. In this move-
ment we did not receive the aid or sanction of
our vice-president, because she did not think
woman suffrage good for Utah. The organiza-
tion was effected by the chairman of the execu-
tive committee. It is complete in every par-
ticular, and the by-laws declare the object of
the association to be “to work for the enfran-
chisement of women without regard to party,
sect, or creed, and to take such steps from time
to time as shall seem to be wise and expedient
for the political advancement of the women
of Utah.”  The Association has sent two dele-
gates to this convention. The very large ma-
jority of people in Utah are in favor of woman
suffrage. As an evidence of this, we secured
8,393 signatures to the national enrollment in
three weeks, 3000 of them being the names of 
men, and we have but just begun our work. 
	All trades, professions and occupations in
Utah are open to women. We have editors,
doctors—who have graduated in the best col-
leges of the country—lawyers, school teachers,
artists, poets, musicians, lecturers, merchants,
clerks, cashiers, photographers, printers, book-
binders, telegraph and telephone operators, silk
workers, weavers, factory hands and artisans
in every kind of work that women are able to 
do, as well as in those domestic labors which
some narrow-minded people think comprise
the sphere of woman. We have no “superflu-
ous women” in the Territory, and none who
need remain without employment; it is often
impossible to hire women for domestic ser-
vice. 
Women, in the male estimation, are not as
fit as men to perform jury service, because it is
said they would be governed by sentiment. If
the premises be true, the argument is still false.
The sentiment which would most often actuate
women is pity. With men it is too often bus-
iness, avarice or social cowardice. Women
might favor the poor and friendless. Men cer-
tainly do show illegal leniency to the rich and 
powerful. 
	We are told that suffrage means turmoil of 
mind, which women should avoid. I do not
concede that this is necessarily so, but I do say
that, if it were so, my sentiment would be that 
of the heroic Roman who said: “Better a dis-
turbed liberty than a quiet slavery.”
	For one, in a general sense, I object to the
cruel withholding of suffrage from women, in
a land consecrated by blood to universal liber-
ty. In a special sense I object to the arbitrary
edict by which thousands of intelligent voters
were deprived of a sacred right, simply be-
cause they were women. 
	The mightiest human problem vexing the
world to-day is the relation of the rich and the
poor—the profit eaters and the profit makers.
Man alone will never solve it. There are
[Column 2]
cases of wounds and illness where woman’s
nursing is absolutely necessary. This is a 
desperate case of social disorder, where woman
must minister with all her skill and tender-
ness to bring the patient through the crisis.
The cry which we now offer up is the cry of
the ages. It is the protest of the few against
the many, the argument of thought against
bigotry. To-day the world is correcting the
active wrongs of last century, and is making
recompense to the demon of intolerance, by be-
ing blind and deaf to the oppressed of to-day.
The wonder which men feel now that their an-
cestors could have been so intolerant will be
felt a generation hence by their sons regarding
these same men.
	The “federation of the world” will not be
accomplished while the most advanced nation
on earth is but half redeemed. But the cause
of woman’s enfranchisement is gaining irresist-
ible momentum. Its triumph must soon come.
When it is victorious, but not till then, will
might cease to her arbiter of right. 
	When a cause is irrevocably lost, it is then 
too late for words. To discuss inevitable sor-
row is only to give intensity to grief. But the
women of Utah do not regard their own fran-
chise as being forever lost. We hope and ex-
pect to see this great struggle terminate speedi-
ly and triumphantly for the cause of woman,
and to see political liberty enjoyed without re-
gard to sex. When that sublime hour comes
it will mark the beginning of the end of tyran-
ny, oppression and misrule. God speed the 
day.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

WOMAN'S SUFFRAGE MEETING.

	There was an interesting meeting of the
Woman's Suffrage Association of Utah held in
the Social Hall at 2 p.m., Saturday, Feb. 9,
1888, First Vice-President Mrs. Lydia D. Alder
presiding. Prayer was offered by Mrs. Zina
D. H. Young.
	Mrs. Alder's opening address: "The hand
that rocks the cradle is the hand that rules the
world." This sentiment was written long ago;
but it is just as true to-day as it was then. It
has from time immemorial been conceded that
the home (that dearest spot on earth), is the
woman's kingdom. And many women there
are, even to-day, who desire no other sphere.
History shows that adown all the ages the
mother who rocks the cradle and carefully
raises her sons, has through them ruled the
world. But shall not our daughters be taught
also, and have just as many privileges as our
sons? Most assuredly. We can look around
us and see many of our sisters who have to
struggle with the hard realities of life. Some
of them are widows, some of them chose never
to marry. They own property, either much
or little, on which they must pay taxes for the
support of the government, both local and
general. Yet they must never have a voice in
the choice of that government's servants.
Woman suffrage is a live question before all
thinking minds and many nations to-day.
Think for a moment of the prospect confront-
ing our own government welcoming as it does
the down-trodden and oppressed of every clime
to its shores. This emigration brings many
who are utterly ignorant of the first true
principles of government. Scheming politi-
cians can buy this vote, also the average negro
vote, for a very small sum of money. This
has conduced to much of the corruption exist-
ing to-day. You can see that when woman
gains the ballot, and we regain our ballot, her
vote, given intelligently and wisely, will offset
the vote of ignorance and fraud. God speed
the day.
	Prof. James E. Talmage following Mrs.
Alder in a short address, said:
	The feelings that animate my mind on this
occasion are peculiar indeed. This is owing

[Column 2]

in some degree doubtlessly to the nature of the
audience, but more especially to the wide in-
terest, and the far-reaching importance of the
topic of the day. I say "far-reaching import-
ance," intentionally, and with no idle meaning
attached to the words; for it is certain that the
problem to which this honorable association is
seeking a proper solution, is of interest to the 
human race at large.
	My humble opinions upon the matter are of
a simple and commonplace kind; but not, I
trust, insincere or immature on that account.
The conclusions at which I have arrived in the
consideration of the subject are based upon no
comparison of legal political advantages or
disadvantages likely to result from conferring
the rights of suffrage upon woman; but upon
the justice of her claims to these rights as wit-
nessed by the word of the Almighty. Man, in
his studied wisdom, has learned this great
lesson of Nature—that the Creator has fitted
every object of His care to the purpose of its
being. Is it then to be thought that woman is
less completely endowed with the capacities of 
her calling than is man for his? It has been
often said that woman, in the sphere allotted
to her existence, is as perfect as man. I would
say in place of this, that in her sphere woman
is as much the superior of man as does man
excel in his proper powers. Nature has been
as liberal in endowing woman—Jehovah's
daughter—as in blessing man—His son.
	The objections that have been raised to the
enfranchisement of women in this land of repub-
lican freedom are mostly based  upon the fear
of the incapacity of women for the offices and
stern duties of citizenship. If these fears
appeared to have  solid foundation, I, too,
would be loth to witness such a change. It
has been wisely said here to-day, that the home
is woman's kingdom; and I feel sincerely that
the true woman, reigning in her home as a
queen, will prove too deeply interested in the
affiars of that sacred domain to desert the
throne in any endeavor for political preferment.
We may repose implicit conficence in womanly
nature; and never need we fear feminine as-
pirations toward positions unfitted for woman's
capacity.
	That the giving of suffrage to woman would
change much of the state at present existiug in
the politics of the day, I have no doubt, but
for such a change I most sincerely hope. My
greatest regret is that woman has to plead and
beg for that which rightly belongs to her. She
is affected by the laws equally with man, and it
is just that her voice should be as willingly
heard as his in the choice of the law-makers
and officials to execute the laws.
	God speed the day when woman shall have
her heaven born rights.
	Mrs. M. Y. Dougall then read an open letter
from the Association to the ladies of America,
and Mrs. Nellie Little read, very effectively,
a synopsis of the speech of Judge Jere Wilson,
which was listened to with marked attention.
	The eloquent speech of Delegate Mrs. Emily
S. Richards, which was given before the Na-
tional Woman's Suffrage Association Conven-
tion at Washington, D. C., was read by Mrs.
Charlotte I Kirby.
	Mr. James T. Cobb, being called upon, re-
sponded in a very acceptable speech on woman
suffrage.
	The meeting then adjourned.
		CORNELIA H. CLAYTON, Secretary.


Feburary 7th, Senator Blair, of the com-
mittee on Woman suffrage, reported back
favorably the joint resolution proposing a con-
stitutional amendment to prohibit the denial
or abridgement of the right to vote by the
United States or any state on account of sex.
It was placed on the calendar; Sen. Cockrell
said a minority report would be made here-
after.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A PRAYER.

TO THOSE WHO MOURN.

God of our fathers, comfort the weary-hearted,
	Heal up the bitter pain
Of those who mourn their departed;

Whose sad eyes turn to the vacant chair,
	To the place unfilled at the table,
And calm Thou their wild despair.

Turn Thou their gaze utno Thee, 
	From the sad earth where sleeps their departed;
Help them, oh, help them to see

Through the vail to the dawn of that Day,
	Unto the City, the Golden—
Where earth-woes have all passed away.

And, oh, unto Thee do I pray,
	For those who can point to no grave stone
As cause of their deep darkened way,

Illumine the gloom with Thy Spirit, 
	Give peace where now agonies reign,
And redeem from the woes we inherit.

God of Thy children below,
	Father, Redeemer and King,
Help us Thy hand e'er to know;

And in all of the perils of life
	To cling to Thine Anchor of love,
To guide through the billows of strife.

Unto the haven of rest—
	Even that City—the Golden—
The home of the Ransomed and blest.
		HOPE.


FRIENDSHIP.

TO MRS. AURELIA S. ROGERS.

There are many friends in springtime,
	When the air is pure and sweet;
When the roses blossom round you,
	And the lilies at your feet.
How they seek to win your favor,
	Gain your approbative smile,
And with words and deeds of kindness,
	Your fond, loving heart beguile.

There are many friends in summer,
	When prosperity abounds;
When kind fortune smiles upon you,
	And the air with praise resounds;
How you gaze at them and wonder
	Who'll be firm and true to trust,
Who will stand the test of friendship,
	Who will say thy cause is just.

When the stormy clouds of autumn
	In the horizon appear,
Friends false and faint and fickle,
	One by one will disappear;
Let them go, false friends,
	For such friends are worse than none,
In an hour when most they're needed:
	There you look, and lo' they're gone.

But the friend that is true in winter,
	When the frosty, chilling blast
Wraps its icy mantle round you,
	That is friendship that will last.
Such a friend is like a jewel,
	Inlaid in pearl and cased in gold;
Time, nor dust, nor heat will change them
	And like diamonds, they'll not mould.

And though earthly friends may wander
	Far away in time of need,
There is one who rules in heaven,
	He is a friend, a friend indeed.
Ferns may fade and roses wither,
	Leaves decay and mosses die;
But if you will retain his favor,
	You will to victory soar on high.

		LUCY A. CLARK.
Farmington.


[Column 1]

WOMAN AND HER SPHERE.

	Woman and her sphere is a theme that has
agitated the minds of thinking men and women
of all ages, but because of the darkness that
has covered the earth, there is a great diversity
of opinion regarding this matter—the proper
sphere of woman—and we find that in this,
as well as other great subjects which effect the
welfare and happiness of the human race,
great mistakes have been made; when, if man-
kind had only been willing to accept the sim-
ple laws of God, which said in the beginning,
"She shall be a helpmate for man," there
would have been no need for controversy on
the subject, for woman would have stood where
the great Father designed she should—at the
head of her family, side by side with man, his
equal and companion, neither aspiring to su-
premacy on the one hand, nor abjectly feeling
herself an inferior or a slave. The question
may be asked, "Is she inferior to man in physi-
cal strength?" She may be in some respects,
while in others her more refined and delicate
organization is peculiarly adapted to the part
she was designed to play in the creations of
God, and among whatever people the refining
influence of woman is most felt, there will be
found the most worthy and noble men; for is
she not a wife and mother? and a truly virtu-
ous woman is a crown to her husband; her
children rise up and call her blessed, and she
is neither degraded as an inferior or regarded
as a plaything; and were it not that the world
have wandered far from God, woman would
stand in the dignity and purity of her woman-
hood, and desire to fill no other position than
that which an alwise Creator designed for her.
And man instead of seeking to lower or de-
grade her, would cherish and respect her as
the brightest jewel and greatest blessing a bene-
ficent Father had bestowed upon him.
	Nor have instances been wanting in which
women have played an important part in the
history of nations. We will pass by the many
instances recorded in profane history in which
women have distinguished themselves in states-
manship and sometimes as warriors, when they
sometimes saved a state and led armies to
victory. Although many such instances might
be enumerated, we pass them by and turn to
the Scriptures of eternal truth, where we read
of Miriam, who was a prophetess; of Deborah,
who judged and led the armies of Israel; of
Esther who took her life in her hands to make
intercession for her people, saying, "I will go
unto the king, and if I perish I perish;" but
more particularly in the New Testament do we
find an Elizabeth who received the ministra-
tion of angels; of Mary, who was counted
worthy to became the mother of the Holy
One; of Anna, a holy woman, a prophetess,
who departed not from the temple, but served
God day and night. It was a woman who
oftenest ministered to the wants of the Son of
God, who believed in and followed Him; but
it was not a woman who betrayed Him.
Women were last at the cross and first at the
sepulchre, and it was to a woman that He first
revealed Himself after His resurrection, and
honored by sending with a message to His dis-
ciples with the joyfal tidings that He had risen
from the dead; and oh! how Mary's bleeding
heart must have rejoiced. And if woman was
the first, by reason of her transgression of the
law to bring the penalty of death into the
world, she was also the first to receive the glad
news that Christ had arisen from the dead, if
not to understand that through His death and
sufferings the original sin of our first parents
had been atoned for, and through His resur-
rection He had obtained the keys of death and
hell, and opened the door whereby we could,
by obedience to the laws of the Gospel, once
more enter the presence of the Father.
	Thus we find that woman has often been

[Column 2]

honored of God; and woe! be to man if he
cannot give a good account of his dealing with
her, who often remains faithful to him through
evil as well as good report, and will minister
to his wants when all others have forsaken him;
and when prostrated with pain, sickness or
sorrow, it is woman who helps him bear his
burdens; it is her soothing hand that lulls the
pain of his aching head, wipes the chilling
dews of death from his brow, and weeps over
him when all others have departed.
	But woman shines brightest in her sphere as
a mother, and to her was the first promise
given of a future Messiah; that notwithstand-
ing she should bring forth children in pain
and sorrow, it was through her seed that the
head of the old serpent should receive a deadly
bruise; and how anxiously women of olden
times desired children; perhaps each one may
have secretly cherished the hope in her heart,
that she may have been the one honored above
all others and the mother of the promised
Savior.
	We believe that in these latter days woman
must still play an important part, and it will
be found that she is still as willing to make
sacrifice for the sake of establishing what she
believes to be the principles of truth and
righteousness in the earth, as she was in olden
times to follow the scorned and persecuted
Savior to the foot of the cross; for it is a well-
known fact that when times of trial and perse-
cution have arisen women have always been
as willing to suffer as men, and even to lay
down their lives for conscience sake.
	Let the women of the latter days lift up
their heads and rejoice, for a brighter day for
woman is near at hand. Let them prepare
themselves, for the old days of thraldom, that
dwarfed their intellect and marred their use-
fulness are rapidly passing away. Let women
be true to themselves, and their power and in-
fluence will soon be felt in the land. Take a
stand against wickedness, in whatever shape it
may appear, for a great and glorious day for
woman is near at hand.
		PHEBE C. YOUNG.


EXTRACTS. 

	Mary Maynard, in her Washington letter to
the Woman's News, has some very witty para-
graphs; we quote the following in regard to
Harrison's Cabinet. —ED.
	"The Woman's Suffrage Convention has
come to be as certain a happening as the meet-
ing of Congress, and some of the people of
Washington have begun to mark the year by
the appearance of Miss Anthony and her fol-
lowers.  As the housekeeper unfolds her even-
ing paper she exclaims, 'Hellow, Miss Anthony
is here and Spring is coming.' And Washing-
ton has grown to have great respect for Miss
Anthony and her brave army.  It hopes it
will come long and come annually forever.
They fight an honest battle, they have won
great victories, and the future is full of promise.
Mrs. Lillie Devereux Blake, one of their 
breeziest speekers, said, after satirizing mascu-
line political methods:  "There is a great curi-
osity as to who will be the members of Gen.
Harrison's Cabinet.  I'd like to present a few
names.' For Secretary of State she named
Elizabeth Cady Stanton; for Secretary of the
Treasury, Mrs. May Wright Sewall; for Secre-
tary of War, our great fighting captain, Susan
B. Anthony; for Secretary of the Navy, Mrs.
Zerelda G. Wallace; for Secretary of the Inte-
rior, 'noble Clara Barton,' and for Attorney
General, Mrs. Laura De Force Gordon, of
California.  She maintained that a Cabinet
composed of that material would give Gen.
Harrison such advice and assistance that his
administration would be unparalled and above
criticism."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah  Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00.  Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates:  Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office.  Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
    	SALT LAKE CITY.  UTAH.
	
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	FEBRUARY 15,1889.


[Column 1]

A NOBLE ENDEAVOR.

	There have been some heroic efforts made by
the "Mormon" people of Utah Territory towards
a state government, so as to give some local self-
government into the hands of those, who have
settled the country and subdued the soil, making
it fertile, whereas it was barren, and beautifying
the land, rendering it habitable, aed desirable for
man. The efforts made for statehood for Utah
are worthy the commendation of all who value
freedom, and who possess individuality in its
truest and broadest sense. To have some local
representation, and choose who shall administer
the laws is, we believe, American in principle,
but to tamely and without endeavor to obtain
statehood, submit to a Territorial form of govern-
ment, when every necessary condition has been
complied with, seems very un-American, and not
at all in harmony with the spirit of liberty that
characterized the forefathers of New England and
of this free Republic, of whose memory and
nobility of purpose, succeeding generations have
been justly proud.
	Yet it is said of this people that they are not
American, they are aliens, and cannot appreciate
the spirit of the Republican government. While
pleading and interceding for the very privileges
and rights which the grand old Constitution and
Declaration of Rights vouchsafes to all citizens,
they are accused of disloyalty, insincerity and
other treacheries, and denounced as hostile to the
laws of the nation.
	All the logic brought to bear upon the ques-
tion of statehood by Delegate Caine, Attorney
Richards, Judge Wilson and others who have
spoken, has so far failed to bring about the de-
sired blessing—statehood for Utah—on account
of the terrible prejudice against the "Mormons,"
which has arisen through misrepresentation,
malice and envy of those who style themselves
"Liberals."  The report of the "Hearings Before
the Committee on Territories in regard to the Ad-
mission of Utah as a State" is well worth reading,
and all fair-minded people not blinded by preju-
dice, may, by perusing the arguments made be-
come posted in reference to what has been done
to build up the country and the definite steps
taken to gain admittance to the Union as a State.
Both sides were presented at the hearings, and
consequently the reader has the main points in
favor of and against admission. However, it is
easy to see that it is the religion of the people
that these non-Mormons object to, or they make
it appear so. Yet they live under a government
tolerant in all its vital principles to all religious
faiths. Judge McBride does not pretend to
base his objections upon plural marriage, but
states, "I believe with other gentlemen that
polygamy must, by pressure from the outside
world, cease to exist in time." The Judge objects

[Column 2]

to a religion that enters into government. In all
ages of the world, whenever the Lord had any
great work to perform, objectors have risen up
against the methods of procedure used by Him.
There are plenty of instances of this kind on
record, yet He says His ways are not as man's
ways; and one might well say if there was more
of God in the governments of nations, there
would be less dissension and far less crime. The
"Mormon" people believe that the Constitution of
this Republic is God-given, and ask only to have
the same rights other men and women enjoy uu-
der its provisions.
	Rev. Olympia Brown, in her speech in the re-
cent Convention of the N. W. S. A. in Washing-
ton, seems to think it would be well to have the
Protestant religion represented in the government,
for she says, "We (the people of the United
States), are in danger of Catholic domination, not
because they are so numerous, but because the
Catholic Church is represented at the polls, and
the Protestant Church is not." She establishes
this fact by stating that, "The foreigners are
Catholics, the greater portion of them; the
foreigners are men, the greater part of them, and
the men of the Catholic Church are interested in
the Church, and they belong to it and they work
for it, and vote for it. "The Protestant Church is
composed of women. Men for the most part do
not belong to it. They do not care much for it,
except as a pious thing to interest the women of
their household. The consequence is, the Pro-
testant Church is unrepresented here.
And so when it comes to voting, the Protestant
Church is unrepresented."
	Now, it is astonishing that some one does not
intefere with the Catholic votes and voting, and
give them a test oath, as they have the "Mor-
mons," lest religion should get into the politics of
the nation. The Reverend lady from whom we
have quoted said some very plain things about
this great Republic, that if a "Mormon" had said
would be called treason; and she prophesied, too.
But perhaps they think "it was only a woman,"
and therefore do not heed it; but they are strong
expressions and worthy of solemn consideration.
Read them and judge.
	"We are tending toward ruin, and I predict
that if women are not enfranchised, and that right
speedily, there will be no Republic here in twenty-
five years. I do not believe that this Republic
can stand, with the voice of anarchy heard in our
great cities, with the hands of intelligent people
tied, motherhood disregarded, the social evil
rapidly fastening on our national life as a legalized
institution, with the increase of licentiousness and
intemperance. I believe that the day of ruin is at
hand for our institutions and government unless
the voice of our women is heard, and unless they
are called into the councils of the nation."
	Judge Wilson, in answer to His Excellency,
Gov. West, who had been energetically opposing
the admission of Utah to Statehood, emphatically
answers all the Governor's objections, and the
discussion between them is calculated to clearly
establish the claims of the Territory to self-gov-
ernment. Forty years of Territorial government
is a long period to serve in such a subordinate
capacity, and Utah most certainly is entitled to an
honorable place in the galaxy of states. The
population has long been sufficient, and all other
necessary conditions have been complied with,
and yet men who profess to believe in progression
for all humantty, and to possess the attributes of
charity, as well as justice and mercy, are using all
their powers of persuasion with tongue and pen,
and whatever social or political influence they are
capable of exercising, to hinder the people of the
Territory from obtaining their just rights.
	The same Reverend lady from whom we quoted
previously, speeking of woman's disfranchisement
exclaimed, "Whose country is this? Who made

[Column 3]

this country? Who have periled their lives for
this country?"
	In view of the anxiety of certain men to ex-
clude the people of Utah from obtaining state-
hood, to which they are justly and morally entitled,
those who have helped to make this desert blos-
som as the rose," who came here when it was a
barren waste, and who know, as the writer does,
that Salt Lake City was not a "meadow with tall
grass waving," etc., can scarcely help feeling
their indignation somewhat roused when they read
and when they hear such mis-statements as have
been made before the Committee on Territories;
and they feel like exlaiming, if they don't,
"Whose Territory is this? Who made this Terri-
tory?" The "Mormon" men wjio came here at
an early day, had some hard work to do, and
much privation to endure and perils to encounter,
and the "Mormon" women rocked their babies
where the wolves howled and the Indians pow-
wowed in their hearing, and endured all sorts of
trial and hardships, as well as poverty, in order to
build up the country,subdue the soil and establish
homes, not only for themselves, but for those who
should come after them.
	There is nothing lost in such a vigorous contest
as has been made for the right. The great men
of the nation and the wise are becoming.informed
upon matters that were unknown to them hereto-
fore; they are getting down to the bed rock of
Mormonism, and little by little are becoming ac-
quainted with this "peculiar people" and their
principles, and by and by they will be willing and
ready as well as anxious to acknowledge them as
a part of the' great body politic, and until then the
people of Utah who desire statehood must sub-
mit with what grace is possible to the persistent
refusal of Congress to acknowledge their rights to
a state' government.


EDITORIAL NOTES. 
	THE Secretaries of the Relief Society in this
Stake of Zion are hereby particularly requested
to prepare correct semi-annual reports, and for-
ward them not later than the 25th of February,
to the Stake Secretary, Mrs. Elizabeth Howard,
No. 60, Fourth South St., Salt Lake City, in order
that a full and complete report may be made in
time for the Stake Conference.  By order of Mrs.
M. Isabella Horne, President Relief Society, 
Salt Lake Stake.
	THE Secretary of the Central Board of the Y.
L. M. I. Associations is particularly anxious to
obtain correct semi-annual reports from each
Stake of Zion.  These should be forwarded so as
to reach her not later than March 10th, to
enable her to compile them in time for the General
Conference on April 6th.  Will the secretaries
of the several Stakes please send promptly to
Mary E. Cook, 323 East, Third South Street, Salt
Lake City, Utah.
	THE Stake secretaries of the Relief Society in
the various Stakes of Zion are urgently requested
to prepare semi-annual Stake reports and forward
them, so that they will reach this city on or before
the 20th of March, in order that a complete re-
port may be furnished the General Conference in
April.  Direct to Dr. Romania B. Pratt, corner
2nd West and First South Streets, Salt Lake
City.  By order of Sarah M. Kimball, Secretary.
	THE quarterly conference of the Relief Society
of this Stake of Zion will be held in the 14th
Ward Assembly Rooms, Thursday, March 14,
commencing at 10 a.m. and 2 p.m.  A representa-
tive from each branch Society in the County is
particularly requested, and a cordial invitation is
extended to all who are interested in the work of
the organization.  The Y. L. M. I. A. of this
Stake will meet in conference Friday, March 15,
and the Primary Association Saturday, the 16th.


A full representation from each Association is
very desireable at both these conferences.
	THE Secretary of the Central Board of the
Primary Associations is desirous of obtaining a
full report from each Stake of Zion for the com-
plete report to be prepared in time for the Apirl
Conference, and this semi-annual report should
be ready ten days before, or about the 25th of
March.  Consequently the reports from all points
ought to be in the hands of the Secretary as
early as the 10th of March at the latest, which
would give her then only two weeks time to pre-
pare them.  It is a very important thing, and the
Presidents of Primary Associations in the several 
Stakes of Zion, should see that this matter is
properly attended to, both as to correct figures
and statements and date of sending.  Forward
the Stake reports to Mrs. Cornelia H. Clayton,
No. 115 Third Street, Salt Lake City.
	MRS. EMILY S. RICHARDS, the delegate from
Utah to the Annual Convention of the N. W. S. A.
at Washington, D.C., returned home Wednesday
evening, Feb. 13.  She gives a pleasing account
of her association with the leading ladies of the
suffrage movement, and withal feels glad of the
success which seems to have attended her efforts
in behalf of representation for Utah, and is hope-
ful for the future. Mrs. Richards will probably
give us something definite concerning her work
there, and her views in reference to the interests of
suffrage before we issue another paper, and will
most likely speak in public before that time, and
we shall be pleased to publish such notes. Her
speech in another part of the paper, will meet the
approbation of all suffrage women, and they will
certainly feel she must have made a good im-
pression in their favor.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


N. W. S. A.

	At the third Executive session of the National
Woman Suffrage Association, which was held in
the parlors of the Riggs House, Washington, D.
C., Thursday afternoon, Jan. 24, Mrs. Sewall for
the Committee on Constitution and By-laws, re-
ported. We have not room in this issue for the
whole, but will publish the By-laws in the next
number of the paper.  Following is the Constitu-
tion adopted.—ED.

CONSTITUTION.

	ARTICLE I.—The name of this Association
shall be "The National Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion."
	ARTICLE II.—The object of this Association
shall be to secure protection in their right to vote
to the women citizens of the United States by
appropriate National and State legislation.
	ARTICLE III.—Section 1.—All citizens of the
United States, subscribing to this Constitution
and paying not less than one dollar annually into
the treasury of this Association, shall become
members thereof, and shall be entitled to attend
all its meetings, to participate in all discussions
that may arise and to receive Reports and other
documents published by it.
	Section 2.—The payment of fifty dollars ($50,00)
into the treasury of this Association shall consti-
tute any citizen of the United States a life mem-
ber of the Association, with all the privileges be-
longing to regular annual members.
	ARTICLE IV.—Section I.—The officers of this
Association shall be a President, Vice-President
at Large, a Recording Secretary, a Correspond-
ing Secretary, a Treasurer, a Chairman of the
executive committee and two Auditors. The
officers named in this section shall be nominated
by an informal ballot at a business session of the
Annual Convention of the Association. The
three persons receiving the highest number of
votes for any office, shall be considered the nomi-
nees of the Convention for that office, and the will


of the Association shall be taken by a formal bal-
lot.
	Section 2.—Wherever state and territorial Asso-
ciations auxiliary to the National Woman Suffrage
Association exist, the Presidents of such Associa-
tions shall be considered Vice-Presidents of the
National Association, representing therein their
respective states and territories.
	Section 3.—Each State or Territorial auxiliary
Association shall elect from its membership one
person to serve on the Executive Committee of
the National Association.
	Section 4.—The President of the National
Woman Suffrage Association shall appoint a Vice-
President to represent on its Executive Board,
any State or Territory where no state or territorial
association exists auxiliary to the National Asso-
ciation.
	Section 5.—The officers enumerated in the pre-
ceding sections of this article shall constitute the
Executive Committee of this Association: of
these officers fifteen shall constitute a quorum for
the transaction of business.
	Section 6.—The Executive Committee shall
elect annually from the veterans of our cause, ten
or more Honorary Vice-Presidents.
	ARTICLE V.—This Constitution may be
amended by a majority vote, at any annual meet-
ing, notice of the amendment having been given
at any preceding annual meeting.


DEATH OF A VETERAN SISTER.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	I feel it my duty to write you and acquaint you
with the death of our beloved sister, Eliza C.
Hall, of Garden City, who died Dec. 19th, 1888.
I should have written sooner, but have been hin-
dered by sickness, trouble and death in the family.
Sister Eliza had been sick a long time with head 
and heart trouble, which finally terminated in
dropsy. She went to sleep on the night of the
18th and never woke; she passed away quietly in
her sleep without a struggle.
	She was the daughter of Phineas and Irene
Churchill Cook; was born in the Town of Goshen,
County of Litchfield, and State of Connecticut,
July 7th, 1811, She was married to Salmon C.
Hall about the year 1832, and moved to Michigan
in 1835 or 1836, where she heard the Gospel
preached, and joined the Church in the year 1842.
She was the mother of two children, a son and a
daughter; neither they nor their father joined the
Church, but she remained with her husband until
the year 1873, when she came to this place and
has remained here ever since.
	Sister Hall has done a great deal of good in the
capacity of a doctor among the people here. She
always stood ready with a kind word and a willing
hand for all who were in need of her assistance.
She was greatly beloved, and her loss is deeply
felt by all who knew her.
	She leaves a large circle of relatives and friends,
who miss her sadly, but we cannot wish her back,
for she had lived to a good old age, and it was
her wish to go to rest. She died in full faith of a
glorious resurrection. The last few days of her
life she was supremely happy, thanking and prais-
ing God for His goodness and mercy continually.
	Will you please give space in your highly prized
paper for this letter? She was always a sub-
scriber, and also an interested reader of the EX-
PONENT, until a short time previous to her death.
	Your sister in the Gospel,
		ANN E. COOK.


IN MEMORIAM.
Died, at the residence of her son, near Elba,
Cassia Co., Idaho, on Nov. 13th, 1888, of pneu-
monia, Nancy H. Clark, wife of Ezra T. Clark,


of Farmington, Davis Co., Utah.  She was born 
in Virginia, Trumball Co., Ohio, August 8, 1825.  
	She was the daughter of Sanford and Nancy 
Porter. Her parents joined the Church of Jesus 
Christ of Latter-day Saints in 1831, and moved to 
Jackson Co., Missouri, in 1832; was baptized in 
Jackson Co. when eight years old, in 1833.  The 
same year the Saints were driven from that Co., 
sharing in the sufferings of that memorable perse-
cution for religion's sake, their persecutors being 
citizens of this glorious land of the free, etc., yet 
their wicked actions will ere long be looked upon 
with the same contempt as the Christian world 
now view the similar treatment of the ancient be-
lievers of the meek and lowly Jesus.  
	She came to Utah in 1847; has always been an 
earnest worker and firm believer in the principles 
of the everlasting Gospel, taking a leading part 
in the different organizations; was President of 
the Y. L. M. I. Associations of Davis Stake 
about five years, when she was chosen to preside 
over the Relief Society of the Stake, in which 
position she acted until she was called to labor in 
the Logan Temple in March, 1885, where she has 
been a diligent worker until within a few weeks 
of her death, when she was released to go on a 
visit to her son.  While going there she contracted 
a violent cold, which resulted in her death.
	She always manifested in her labors that meek 
and unselfish disposition characteristic of a true 
Saint of God, charity for all being one of her 
leading virtues.  
	The Bible promise, as recorded in Luke xiv, 17, 
that those who believed should speak in new 
tongues, has been verified many times through 
her speaking in tongues, the gift being given to 
her before she was eight years old.  
	The funeral services were held in the Farming-
ton meeting house.  The casket was carried from 
her late residence to the meeting house by the 
authorities of the ward, followed by the Relief 
Society and Y. L. M. I. A. in procession.  The 
meeting house was beautifully decorated with 
flowers brought by the young ladies.  Appropri-
ate remarks were made by Elder James T. Smith, 
Patriarch J. H. Tippets and Prest. Anson Call. 
	She had three sons, one daughier and twenty 
grandchildren.  A large concourse of relatives
and friends followed her remains to their last 
resting place.  
	MARY S. CLARK.


THE NORTH LONDON LADIES' RELIEF
SOCIETY.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	The President of the above Society has desired
me to write you a brief account of the work ac-
complished by it since its reorganization up till
the close of 1888.
	The Society was reorganized on March 9th,
1884, with Helen Bradford, President; Frances
Cornell and Frances Jennings, Counselors; Caro-
line Parratt, Secretary; Helen Bradford, Treas-
urer.
	Since that time, however, the First Counselor
has emigrated to Utah, and Sister Jennings now
holds that position, and Sister M. E. Scoles has
been chosen Second Counselor. The Secretary
has been succeeded by Elizabeth Bush, who also
emigrated to Utah in October last, and that posi-
tion is at present vacant.
	392 visits have been paid, and 62£ 9 shillings
and 4 1/2 pence has been given to the poor. The
Elders have been assisted to the amount of 25£,
11 shillings and 3 1/2 pence. This is for rent of
room and food. The attendance has been very
small, the usual number present not exceeding
six lately, although we have a number of names
on the books. The Saints are scattered, and
many too poor to travel, and the means at our
command very limited.
	The continued emigration and consequent loss


of members account for this to some extent, but
we are striving to use what we have to the best
advantage. We may say though few in number 
the spirit of unity prevails, and all work harmoni-
ously together, and have great joy in their labors. 
The Society is doing its best, and there are no
hard feelings among us. The Elders meet with 
the sisters from time to time, and much valuable
counsel is given and cherished. 
	It has been the President's wish, and the sisters
have so far carried it out to the best of their
ability, that when visiting we should go into the
different homes, not with a prying curiosity, or a
patronizing air, but with true sisterly feelings and
sympathy in our hearts for the sufferings and
sorrows of others. We have endeavored to carry
relief and the precious truths we are in possession 
of together into the houses of those we visit, and
rich is the reward when we hear and see what
happiness follows. There is a luxury above all 
others in this world, and it is the exquisite luxury
of doing good to our fellow creatures, although
we may be only messengers, only carriers, only
instruments in the hands of others, there is one
sight seen of us that few others ever see—
the grateful look, the eloquent tear, and the fer-
vent "God bless you!" In the first blush of sur-
prise and thankfulness lies our reward and the
reward of the benevolent also. 
	We desire to go on with this work and lighten
many hearts and cheer many homes, and trust
that means will ever be in our hands to give to 
the needy and sick and afflicted, and health to 
carry on this noble work. 
	Your sister in the Gospel, 
	M. E. SCOLES, Sec. pro tem.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

EMINENT WOMEN.

II.

	We talk a great deal in this age, of origin-
ality and individuality, but circumstances and
opportunities have much to do with both. In
a general way we find men and women possess
the characteristics of the time to which they
belong. Thus we speak of remarkable persons
as the best types of the period in which they
lived. There are many elements that enter
into the formation of character. The physical 
condition of the country itself, the pursuits in-
cident to the time and place, and other con-
siderations which belong to the period of one's
existence have much to do with the lives of
individuals.
	In writing of the Mesdames Montague, I
have in my mind a sort of historical panorama,
or bird's eye view of the condition of society
in England at the time, and I esteem these
ladies as representative women of their day,
and instead of wondering why they did not
maintain the intellectual equality of the sexes,
as exceptional women do in our day, I simply
admire them for doing what they could to
elevate woman socially and educationally.
This is essentially woman's era, and the wise
understand why.
	In some respects Elizabeth Montague (or as
she is often termed, the other Montague), was
more illustrious that her predecessor, Lady
Mary, though she never gained a title. Her
maiden name was Robinson, and she was born
in 1720. Elizabeth was educated with great
care, under the tuition of Dr. Congers Middle-
ton, a celebrated English divine. According
to her letters written previous to her marriage,
she was on intimate terms with some of the
nobility. She must have been very lively, for
she writes to the Duchess of Portland, describ-
ing "an assembly to which they drove eight
miles every full moon and danced till twelve."
"I must tell your Grace, that my papa forgets
twenty years and nine children, and dances as
nimbly as any of the quorum; but is now and
then mortified by hearing the ladies cry, 'Old

[Column 2]

Mr. Robinson! Haysides and turn your
daughter.' Other ladies who have a mind to
appear young say, 'Well! there is my poor
grandpa, he could no more dance so!' Then
comes an old bachelor of fifty, and shakes
him by the hand and cries, 'Why, you dance
like one of us young fellows;' another more in
judicious than the rest, says by way of compli-
ment, 'Who would think you had six fine
children taller than yourself? I protest if I
did not know you, I should take you to be
young.' Then says the most antiquated virgin
in the company, 'Mr. Robinson wears mighty
well; my mother says he looks as well as ever
she remembers him; he used to come often to 
the house when I was a girl.' " Mr. Robinson
married at the early age of eighteen, and
might not perhaps have been at this time more
than forty, although he had some fine tall
children. We have given our readers this
little passage that they may have an idea of
Elizabeth's early life.
	Miss Robinsou married a man of wealth,
and subsequently obtained "the reputation of
a woman of learning." Indeed, she was quite
a power in her day, and drew around her a
circle of learned and influential people of cul-
ture, who were anxious to be considered in Mrs.
Montague's set.

"Great souls by instinct to each other turn,
Demand alliance, and in friendship burn."

	Even Johnson, with whom she had been on
intimate terms, in alluding to her, said: "Mrs.
Montague has dropped me. Now, sir, there
are people whom one should like very well to
drop, but would not wish to be dropped by."
Among her contemporaries we find Johnson,
Boswell, Walpole, Mrs. Thrale and Miss
Burney (Madame d'Arbley), who all belonged
to her coterie, and were entertained in splendor
at her house, which Horace Walpole calls "a
palace and a noble edifice." Walpole writes
that in the morning she breakfasted seven hun-
dred people. Miss Burney speaks of being
present at one of her breakfasts when there
were between four and five hundred guests at
the table. Besides these magnificent break-
fasts, and surpassing them in grandeur, her
whole house was thrown open occasionally for
great gatherings, or parties. But the most
choice entertainments she gave were smaller
parties in her drawing-room, where only "peo-
ple of consequenct" assembled. These were
the friends she made a point of cultivat-
ing. At these parties it was customary
to form a semi-circle around the fire, which
would remain unbroken during the entire
evening. The hostess usually sat at one end
of the circle, elegantly attired and brilliant
with diamonds, and on one side of her, the
person of the highest rank, and on the other,
the one most eminent in literature.

"'Tis true (as the old proverb doth relate),
Equals with equals often congregate."

	George, Lord Littleton, was a warm admirer
of this talented lady. It is stated she assisted
him in the composition of his "Dialogues of 
the Dead."
	At the time of her great popularity, her
manner was very stately and dignified, as be-
came one so distinguished in the highest rank
of wealth and literature.
	Elizabeth Montague was known and desig-
nated as the "queen of the blues." Scribblers
are indebted to this lady for the appelation
blue-stocking. She formed a literary society
known as the Blue-Stocking Club; the name
originated from the circumstance of a gentle-
man, who was a member, constantly wearing
stockings of that color, and has ever since been
applied to women who affect literature. We
must recollect that those were the palmy days
of knee breeches; consequently the color of
one's hose was a matter of taste in a man's ap-

[Column 3]

pearance, quite as much as the color of his
necktie, or any other item of his costume. We
have to thank Mrs. Montague for giving
literary women a title. But this is not the
only peculiarity for which she is famous. She
invariably gave an annual dinner on May day
to all the chimney-sweepers of the metropolis,
in honor of her kinsman, Edward Wortley
Montague, who was for some time a chimney-
sweep. There must have been some excellent
qualities of heart, joined with humility, under-
lying her pride and love of magnificence,
which prompted her to observe regularly this
commendable custom; and to remember in such
a substantial manner, the poor chimney-sweepers
of London, and also to perpetuate in the minds
of all the world her plebeian ancestor.
	Her remarkable gift of conversation, which
was really her strong point, by means of which
she drew around her all the elite of that age
of critics, would designate her in the nineteenth
century as a magnetic woman, which no doubt
she was. Johnson said of her to his friend
Boswell: "She diffuses more knowledge in her
conversation than any woman I know, and in-
deed almost more than any man." Mrs. Thrale
replied, "I declare, I know no man equal to
her, take away yourself and Burke, for that
art." Some critics and reviewers, in alluding
to her, have said: "It is difficult to believe,
from anything Mrs. Montague has left in writ-
ing, that her conversation deserved the high
praise Johnson bestowed upon it."

Who shall dispute what the reviewers say?
Their word's sufficient; and to ask a reason
In such a state as their's is downright treason.

	The critics cut and thrust at her "Essay on 
Shakespeare," although they acknowledge that
at the time it was written it was supposed to
do honor, not only to the author herself, but
to Shakespeare. Her "Letters" afford better
reading, in their estimation, particularly those
addressed to Lord Littleton, in which, says the
editor, "She displays the full strength of her
wings,"
	Mrs. Montague, unlike many women of
"brilliant parts," did not outlive her popularity,
although most of her old-time friends had
passed away before her. She died A. D. 1800,
at the age of eighty years. There are many
interesting little episodes in her life which are
well worth recounting, but time and space will
not now permit.
		AUNT EM.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.
BEAR LAKE STAKE.
	Minutes of ladies' conference, held at St.
Charles, Jan 12th and 13th, 1889. After the
usual devotional exercises, the branches of the
Relief Society were reported verbally by their
respective presidents and representatives.
	Prest. J. P. Lindsay then addressed the con-
gregation on the subject of storing grain and
setting good examples. Her remarks through-
out were fraught with interest, and were dic-
tated by the Holy Spirit.
	The next speaker, Sister Sarah I. Holmes,
felt grateful to God for the many blessings we
enjoy, and for the privileges we have of meet-
ing together from time to time, and being in-
structed in His ways. Set forth the duties of
the members of the associations.
	She was followed by Sister Annie Laker,
who dwelt at some length upon the responsi-
bilities of parents, and gave some excellent ad-
vice to mothers, which will doubtless be appre-
ciated by all who heard it.
	Coun. L. M. Hart felt grateful that she had
been permitted to live to see the ushering in of
a new year; hoped to be able to live nearer to
God in the future than she had done in the past,
and to be prepared to do more in assisting to
build up the kingdom of our God.


[Column 1]

	The choir sang. Benediction was offered by
Elder C. A. Murkley.
	Sunday, Jan. 13th, 2 p.m.: The opening
exercises were attended to, and Prest. Lindsay
again took the stand, and spoke for a short
time impressively on different subjects pertin-
ent to our belief.
	Prest. James H. Hart was pleased to meet
with his brethren and sisters. Said, "The
Gospel is being preached for the last time, and
the day is fast approaching when 'every knee
must bow and every tongue confess that Jesus
is the Christ' All who expect to be saved in
the kingdom of our God must be faithful to
the end. We are called upon, and may still
be, to pass through trials for the truth's sake,
and some may indeed be required to lay down
their lives in defense of its principles." Ex-
horted the people to faithfulness in serving
God and keeping His commandments.
	The names of the Stake and local officers
were presented by Prest. Geo. Osmond and sus-
tained by the conference in their various posi-
tions.
	Conference was adjourned till the second
Saturday and Sunday in July. Singing by
the choir, and Prayer by Bishop J. A. Hunt.
		L. M. RICH, Secretary.

CASSIA STAKE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Relief Society of the Cassia Stake con-
vened in conference at Oakley, Dec. 21, 1888.
Present on the stand, Prest. Louisa Haight,
with Counselors E. Tuttle and A. Wilson,
Bros. H. D. Haight and M. Pickett of Stake
Presidency, Bro. Robert Wilson, also presi-
dents of the various branches of the Relief
Society. Conference opened with singing and
prayer. Opening remarks by Prest. Louisa
Haight. Minutes of preceding conference
read and accepted. Satisfactory reports of
the ward organizations were listened to.
	Prest. Louisa Haight advised the teachers
not to put off visiting their ward until the last
day. Said, "There are many temporal duties,
but they should be so arranged as to give time
for spiritual ones; it is useless to spend our
whole time drudging for the things of the
earth, which we cannot take with us."
	Bro. Moroni Pickett then spoke at some
length in an instructive manner; said the sis-
ters in their deeds of charity should think of
what the Savior said: "Inasmuch as ye do it
unto one of these, ye do it unto me."
	Coun. Elizabeth Tuttle wondered how the
sisters could miss the enjoyable time of confer-
ence. Said, "Mothers are the educators of their
children; they could do much to have honest
men, or they could neglect the teaching and
let them wander away.
	Coun. Ann Wilson knew of no comfort out-
side of the Gospel. Wondered how the doc-
trines taught in the world could be called true
religion. Spoke of the duty resting upon the
Society of visiting the sick. Adjourned till 2
p.m.
	Afternoon session: Opened by singing and
prayer.
	Bro. Cyrus Tolman: "It is said we should
cry unto the Lord to have care over our flocks,
for food and raiment, etc., but further it is
said, 'If ye look not after the poor it cometh
to nothing.' Our religion is vain if we are not
willing to deal out our substance for the com-
fort of the poor."
	Sister Clara Smith bore a strong testimony;
knew the Gospel to be the only plan that
could bring us back to our Heavenly Father.
	Bro. Jacob Daley said, "The Snints are im-
bued with the spirit of gathering, that they
may prepare and teach a rising generation for
future usefulness. They are engaged in a
work calculated to exalt, if the teachings of
the prophets are adhered to."

[Column 2]

	Sister Priscilla Worthing was the next
speaker; said, "The duty of the Society is to
help the poor and the sick, and not to help
furnish temples or build meeting houses."
	Bishop A. G. Smith, of Marion, spoke con-
cerning teaching by example; attending con-
ference, and being a gain to endure persecu-
tion.
	Remarks by Louisa Pickett. followed by
Bishop J. T. Smith, of Oakley, who said, "Our
mission should begin at home. Children
should be able to see that their fathers had re-
spect for their mothers. As a people we have
neglected to cultivate refinement; we should
ever appear as true ladies and gentlemen."
	Stake authorities presented and sustained.
Instructions from Bro. H. D. Haight, Stake
President. Conference adjourned for three
months.
		LOUISA PICKETT, Sec.

TOOELE STAKE.
	Minutes of the Relief Society, Y. L. M. I. A.
and Primary Associations of Tooele Stake,
which convened in the Tooele meeting house,
Dec. 8th and 9th, 1888, Prest. Mary A. Hunter
presiding. There were present from Salt Lake
City, Sisters Zina D. H. Young and Bathsheba
W. Smith.
	Sister Hunter made some opening remarks,
and some verbal reports of the wards were
given, showing each branch Society to be in a
prosperous condition, except the small settle-
ments, which need to be encouraged in their
meetings and association one with another; some
have become lukewarm in attending to their
duties.
	Sister Zina D. H. Young gave some very
good and interesting instructions to all, and to
mothers especially, and spoke by the Spirit of
God. Said, "Mothers have a great work to
do and a great mission to fill in raising up
their children in a proper manner. Our child-
ren who are obedient to the Gospel are a great
and shining light, and we should be very care-
ful to set a good example before them, so that
they may walk in our footstep." Gave much
valuable advice, which I hope we shall all fol-
low out.
	Sister B. W. Smith said, "I am pleased to
meet with my brethren and sisters this morning;
desire the faith and prayers of all, that what I
say may be a benefit to some one, for we meet
together to do each other good. We all have
our troubles and weaknesses, but I feel that
the Relief Society is a blessing, and if we do
our duty we shall get our reward, and know
that this is the kingdom of God." The
speaker prayed that we might all do our duty
and come off victorious. "The Sunday School
is a great blessing, and parents should go with
their children and see that they behave proper-
ly." Encouraged the sisters in their every day
duties, and made other remarks calculated to
do good.
	The choir sang.  Dismissed by R. Mickel-
john.
	In the afternoon Primary Conference con-
vened, when nearly all the time was occupied
with songs and recitations by the children,
which were very interesting, and they proved
that they had been well taught and instructed
by their President, Sister Bowen, and her
Counselors.
	In the evening the Young Ladies held their
Conference. They had prepared a short pro-
gramme, and then the sisters from Salt Lake
City gave them some very good instruction—
how to live every day, and to take care of their
health; several of the young men also spoke
at the conference.
	On Sunday morning the sisters met with the
Sunday School and made some very interest-
ing remarks, which were very much apprecia-
ted, and in the afternoon the Relief Society
met again, and the sisters from Salt Lake City

[Column 3]

addressed the congregation; also some of the
brethren, and they testified that the conference
had been a very interesting one throughout,
and that the good instructions that had been
given were by the Spirit of God and suited to
all.
	The conference adjourned for six months, to
be held in Grantsville.
		ANN TATE,
	Cor. Sec. Tooele Stake.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FAIR AT ST. JOSEPH.

	Report of the Conjoint Fair of the Relief
Society, Y. L. and P. A, of the St. Joseph
Stake of Zion, which opened in Cluff's Hall,
Pima, Dec. 28, 1888.
	There was a very fine display of useful and
ornamental articles on exhibition; also quilts,
tidies, home-made carpets and rugs, all being
worthy of praise.
	A fine representation of statuary, including
a large bust of President Brigham Young,
which attracted much attentien; also a display
of seri-culture, millinery, etc. The Graham
and Curtis wards have made some very nice
straw hats, that should be worn with pride, ac-
cording to the instructions and teachings of
the late President B. Young.
	 We hope to be able to award prizes at our
next fair, when the agricultural department of
the Gila Valley will receive the attention of
the committee, as we had on exhibition the
finest of corn raised from the second crop
after barley was harvested in July; also turnips
weighing seven pounds, both raised by Bishop
John Taylor, of Pima, and sweet potatoes
weighing eleven pounds, raised by Bro. Frank
Owens.
	Although too late in the season for a display
of fruit, there was quite a variety of a superior
quality raised in the valley this year. We
have seen peaches measuring from nine to
eleven inches, and bunches of grapes weighing
from four to five pounds.
	We feel safe in predicting that this will
prove one of the finest fruit countries in the
west.
	Very respectfully,
		W. EAST, Prest.,
		L .GUSTAFSON, Sec.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Both branches of Congress have passed the
bill raising the age of protection for girls to
sixteen.
	Smith College, Mass., has received a gift of
$5,000 toward a gymnasium. The donor was
a woman.
	Mrs. Fayette C. Snead, whose newspaper name
was "Fay," died in Washington, D. C., Janu-
ary 24.
	Over one hundred and sixty women matri-
culated at a Philadelphia Woman's Medical
College last year.
	The Queen of Sweden has given a large do-
nation to the Dress Reform Society, to enable
them to open a store in Stockholm.
	Lady Sandhurst was elected to the London,
Eng., County Council at the late election. Mrs.
Gladstone in a letter seconded her election.
	The girl mail-carrier, of Oregon, whose
home is near Eugene City, bears the euphoni-
oua name of Minnie Westman.
	The Municipal Council of Paris has voted
500f. towards the expenses of the Woman's
Right's International Congress, to be held
there this year.


[Column 1]

	There are nearly three hundred women
studying at the Cooper Union Free Woman's
Art School in New York.
	A. W. C. T. U. Building Association has 
been organized in Ohio to erect a chapel, par-
lor and dining-room at Lake Side, the summer
Chautauqua of that State.
	It is one of the rules of Sorosis that no one
must act as president for more than three
years. Mrs. M. Louise Thomas's third term
expires this year, and there is much debate as
to who shall be her successor.
	A vote on woman suffrage was taken the
other day by the employes of the Cleveland
(O.) Ship-building Company. Of 125 me-
chanics who voted, 112 were in favor. The
thirteen who opposed it are foreigners, unable
to speak English.
	The women have no power as yet to vote ap-
propriations. But, since the women of Massa-
chusetts pay some millions of dollars in taxes
every year, a portion of the money raised by
taxing them might appropriately be applied to
paying the clerks who registered them-
	An attempt was lately made in the London
County Council to elect Sir Charles Dilke an
alderman of London. There was strong ob-
jection on account of his notorious morals.
When the caucus met, it was confronted with
a protest signed by 1,500 ladies, and the name
of Sir Charles was dropped.
	Ramabai is lecturing in Japan to great
audiences. In Tokio, the largest lecture hall
in the city was so crowded that the doors had
to be closed half an hour before the meeting
began, every inch of room being already occu-
pied. Ramabai, of course, speaks through an
interpreter.
	Madame Carnot is being attacked by a sec-
tion of the French press for having received
at the Elysee the famous explorer, Madame
Dieulafoy, in a divided skirt, or, as the opposi-
tion papers call it, in "the dress of a man."
This costume Madame Dieulafoy devised for
herself when superintending the excavations
made under the care of her husband and her-
self in Persia. The dress could not be mis-
taken for that of a man. It resembles more 
the full trousers worn by the women of Orien-
tal nations. This garb, assumed first for work-
ing purposes, Madame Dieulafoy found so con-
venient and easy that a return to stays, tight-
fitting or decollete bodices, and long trains,
became intolerable, and she continues to wear
it.—Ex.
	A few years ago, an excellent D. D., who
had lived in Wyoming and been chaplain to
the Territorial Legislature, published in the
Religious Telescope a glowing account of the
good effects of equality of rights for women.
Among other things, he cited the abundance
of children in Wyoming, and attributed it to
the influence of woman suffrage ! It is pro-
bable that in this the good doctor's enthusiam
for woman suffrage carried him a little too far;
for we find the same abundance of children in
other frontier Territories where woman suffrage
does not prevail. It is probably accounted
for by the fact that the settlers are largely 
young married people, and that they lead a
hardy and rugged life. It is evident, however,
that if woman suffrage does not promote the
increase of population, it certainly does not
prevent it—Ex.
	Any education that unfits women to be
mothers, or men to be fathers, must be con-
demned, of course. The mistake lies in as-
suming that the higher education does unfit
women to be mothers. A year or two since,
the Association of Collegiate Alumnae col-
lected statistics from about 800 women college

[Column 2]

graduates, as to their health before, during
and after college, the health of their children,
the number who had died, etc. Two points
came out clearly from these statistics: that the
health of the girls generally improved at col-
lege, when they did not over-study; and that
the death-rate among the children of college
women is remarkably low. An educated
woman knows better than an ignorant one how
to care for her own health and that of her
child. Again, the quailty of the children has
to be considered as well as the quantity. The
child of an educated mother is likely to be
more intelligent that the child of an ignoraut
mother. It is more likely to live, and is also
"worth raising."—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MARY JANE CROSBY.

	On January 31, 1889, at 9:30 a.m., at her residence,
East Bountiful, Davis County, Utah, of lung disease and
pneumonia, Mary Jane, daughter of Samuel and Mary
Johnson, and wife of John K. Crosby, sen. Born August
28, 1816, in Milton, State of New York. She leaves a
husband, four children, one son and three daughters, and
15 grandchildren to mourn her loss.
	The deceased was an active worker, and for many years
was a counselor to President Barlow, until the reorganiza-
tion of the Relief Society of the East Bountiful Ward.
She died a faithful Latter-day Saint, and in the hope of a
glorious resurrection. Requiiscat in pace.
		COM.
	Nevada papers please copy.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT. 

	We, the undersigned members of the Panaca Relief So-
ciety, having been authorized to draft Resolutions of Re-
spect to the memory of our beloved sister, Mary Rice, who
departed this life Dec. 10, 1888, beg leave to submit the
following:
	Whereas, our Heavenly Father, in His infinite wisdom,
has seen fit to remove from our midst to a higher sphere
our worthy and beloved sister, Mary Rice, and,
	Whereas, the intimate relations held during a long, useful
life by her, with the members of the Relief Society, makes
it fitting that we record our appreciation of her, therefore,
be it
	Resolved, That we, the Panaca Relief Society, deeply
regret and feel really the loss of one so loved, faithful and
esteemed, and feel to extend our heart-felt sympathy to
the bereaved family and relations who are called upon to
part with an affectionate mother and friend, and with them
acknowledge an Almighty God in our bereavement; and
be it
	Resolved, That we recognize in the death of Sister Rice
the loss of a dutiful and faithful officer, and we look for-
ward to that time when the graves will open and the spirit
and body be again united, when the earth will be purified
and become the home of the faithful Saints.
	Resolved, That a copy of these Resolutions be tendered
the bereaved family; also that one be placed on our re-
cord.
		ELIZABETH WADSWORTH, Prest.,
		ELIZA WADSWORTH, Sec.

	Resolutions of Respect to the memory of the departed
children of the Primary Association of Goshen, who died
in October and November of diphtheria.
	Whereas, in the providence of an alwise God, our little
ones have been called from our midst by the hand of death,
and,
	Whereas, we have been called to mourn the loss of so
many of our dear Primary children, viz.: Elizabeth Ed-
wards, Lillian Morgan, Nena Christenson, Eva Peterson,
Nina Cantelen and Lydia Race, who were faithful mem-
bers in the Association, bright and intelligent, taken in the
bloom of innocence; we can truly say they are greatly
missed at home and by the community.
	Resolved, That we realize the loss we have sustained in
their departure, and that we hereby extend our condolence
and sympathy to their parents and relatives, and in our
united prayers as members of the Association, ask God to
bless and comfort them in their sorrow.
	Resolved, That a copy of these Resolutions be furnished
the parents, the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and that they are
placed upon the records of the Association, which would


have been furnished before, but the meetings have not been
held, on account of sickness, until the present.

	We sadly miss these dear ones,
		When we to Primary come;
	But how much greater are they missed,
		By their parents in their homes.

	We pray to Thee, oh, Father,
		Thy Spirit comfort send,
	For if we put our trust in Thee,
		Thou art our only friend;

	To comfort us in sorrow,
		And the way Thou hast made plain,
	To claim our precious jewels,
		And dwell with them again.

		EMMA L. JENKINS,
		JULIA M. JESPERSON, Committee.
		LYDIA C. JESPERSON,
	Goshen, Utah Co., Utah, Feb. 6, 1889.


Training School for Nurses
	On February 4th, 1889, I will open a Training
School for Nurses; the object being to make edu-
cated nurses of women and girls, and prepare them 
for competent work either in hospital or private
practice, so that skilled service can be furnished
and good pay demanded. The instruction will be
similar to that of the Boston Training School, and
will occupy a period of three months. Those not
prepared to enter at the beginning of the course,
may do so later, and preceding lectures will be
made up to them. Special arrangements can also 
be made for obstetrical teaching.
	TUITION,	-	-	-	$25.00.
For further Information, address,
DR. M. P. HUGHES,
P. O. Box 575, Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Or for personal interview, at office, at 2 p.m., at
Cor. of South Temple and First East Sts.
MARTHA P. HUGHES, M.D.

R.K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES,  RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes. 
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

