VOL. 17.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 15, 1889.	NO. 22.


BE PATIENT,

Oh! "what can we do"? 'tis a question
	The children of sorrow repeat,
When the trust that to love is most vital,
	No longer with strength is replete;
When the lack of exalted perfection
	In dear ones too plainly is seen,
When life looks indeed like a failure—
	The threads so entangled have been.
'Tis hard when endurance seems wasted,
	And the heart for a recompense yearns,
When instead of substantial affection—	
	A shadow is all it discerns.
How many bright visions have vanished
	Like snow 'neath the sun's scorching ray?
How many discouraged and weary—
	Deplore shatter'd idols to-day?
Poor mourners' ye needs must be patient;
	But wherefore be bow'd to the sod?
Cease to glorify fallible mortals
	And learn to depend upon God !

Oh! what can we do? plead the parents
	Heart-wounded by daughters and sons—
Disconsolate fathers and mothers,
	Who mourn for their prodigal ones;
Could ye do, (Oh, ye bow'd and afflicted)
	Any more than you've willingly done?
'Tis a pity, from fountains the clearest,
	Some streamlets are soil'd as they run.
Alas ! there are subtle temptations;
	Mere tinsel, oft' glitters as gold;
Fierce Wolves—wait around in Sheep's clothing,
	To lead foolish lambs from the fold.
Yet, what can we do for these weak ones—
	But warn them, and ceaselessly pray,
For the angels of Mercy to guard them
	From evil, by night and by day?
And all the day long like "Our Father,"
	To the penitent "hold out our hands;"
Is it needful by harshness to sever—
	The ties that should bind us as bands?

If the whirlwinds of folly have injured
	A part of our family tree—
If a bough stripped of freshness and beauty
	Is even unsightly to see—
Though it mates not the blossoming branches,
	Be patient ! for aught that we know—
The sap from the trunk, may restore it,
	And strong as the rest it might grow.
But oh! when we fear that forever,
	Our own will be blighted and bare,
God only, can soothingly answer,
	The wailings of utter despair.

Ah! truly, what terrible heart-aches—
	The thoughtless, the reckless can bring;
Can deluge the household with sorrow,
	And sharp as a serpent can sting
The friends, who have trusted and loved them,
	The friends who would sooner have died—
E'er one of their number had parted
	With honor, and requisite pride.

Alas ! for the lack of compassion—
	For hearts that in silence must sigh;
The evil, for evil are watching,
	And all that is wrong they espy,
The finger of malice too often
	Is pointed with triumph and scorn,
At those who, more blameless are bleeding,
	Pierced through with ingratitude's thorn.
Some, forget, that the Lord has thus spoken:
	Whosoe'er shall calamity see—
And make it a cause for rejoicing,
	By calamity troubled shall be.

And what can we do but, be patient?
	Though stricken like Jacob of old,
When the patriarch's pride, even Joseph,
	By his brethren was hated and sold,

[Column 2]

Ah ! little they cared, that with anguish
	Their father's grey head was bow'd down;
And little they listened to conscience,
	Or feared the Omnipotent's frown.
But good out of evil oft' cometh,
	As even to Joseph, the youth,
For nought would he barter his honor,
	His trust was in God and in Truth.
Did shame cling at all to his garments
	Though his brethren were guilty of crime?
The worthy can woo consolation,
	And wait compensation's own time.

Perchance, 'twould suppress sweet compassion,
	And needlessly pamper our pride;
If the current of life all around us,
	Should smoothly and gracefully glide.
Can they pity the sorely afflicted
	Who never were tempted and toss'd?
Oh, how could we sense a bereavement—
	If nothing we ever had lost ?
Be patient ! "Ye heavily laden,"
	Be hopeful, 'twill lighten your care;
Be thankful, "the back fits the burden,"
	Be glad, there is comfort in prayer.
The strongest have need of God's guidance
	To "overcome evil, with good;"
The weakest can win His approval
	Who said, "She hath done what she could."

		EMILY H. WOODMANSEE,
Salt Lake City.


[Column 1]

[For the Exponent.]
	SOME OF THE BEST AUTHORS.

II
	In my last I made a couple of selections
from Mrs. Hemans, a poet of whom the Eng-
lish people are justly proud; nor do I find in
rambling among other poets of her sex (and
indeed, but few of the opposite sex) many who
desire to be ranked above her. She is the
sweetest, truest, purest expositor of the guile-
less human heart; her own we may say uncon-
scious, interpreter of a beautiful sinless life.
While her elegance of diction is unexcelled;
and the purity of her conceptions unrivaled.
She is not sentimental, but exhibits the strength
and beauty of inherent truth. She may be-
going out of fashion in these fast and practical
times, but so are nearly all the old poets; and
as true poetry is beauty, and beauty is truth,
so we will some day come back to our lost love
for "truth will prevail."
	We shall grow tired of our superficalities,
and find that true happiness, that bright gem
for which philosophers of all ages have delved,
lies not in fashion, but in the beautiful Nature
which God hath wrought. Nowhere is nature
more ideal and true, than in the pure depths
of a guileless heart, and nowhere shall we
find this beauty more perfectly interpreted
than in some of the poets of the olden school.
	Mrs. Francis S. Osgood occurs to our mind
as an American poet of genius, who was born
in Boston in 1812. Who has not been cap-
tivated by her sweet poem Labor ?

	"Labor is rest—from the sorrows that greet us,
	Rest from all petty vexations that meet us;
	Rest from the sin promptings that ever entreat us;
	Rest from world sirens that lure us to ill;
		Work—and pure slumbers shall wait on thy pillow.
		Work—thou shalt ride over Care's coming billows;
		Lie down wearied 'neath Woe's weeping willow,
	Work with a stout heart and resolute will!

	Labor is wealth; in the sea the pearl groweth,
	Rich the Queen's robe from the frail cacoon floweth.

[Column 2]

	From the fine acorn the sfrong forest bloweth,
		Temple and statue the marble blocks hide.

	Work for some good, be it ever so slowly;
	Cherish some flower, be it ever so lowly.		
	Labor! all labor is noble and holy,
		Let thy great deeds be thy prayer to thy God."

	Where can we find a poem more truly poeti- 
cal than that written by her entitled "To The
Spirit of Poetry." Let us cull a few of its
lines:

	Thou that dost veil the fairest flower with glory,
		Spirit of light, and lovliness and truth!
	Thou that did'st tell me a sweet fairy story.
		Of the dim future, in my wistful youth.

	Thou that came'st to me in my dreaming childhood,
		Shaping the changeful clouds to pagents rare;
	Peopling the smiling vale, and shaded wildwood
		With airy beings, faint, yet strangely fair;
	Telling me all the sea-born breeze was saying
		While it went whispering through the willing leaves.
	Bidding me listen to the light rain, playing
		Its pleasant tune about the household, eve's.

	Tell me not Time, whose wing my brow hath shaded,
		Has withered spring's sweet bloom within my heart;
	Ah no ! the rose of love is yet unfaded,
		Though hope and joy, its sister flowers, depart."

	But Mrs. Osgood has already gone "out of
style," although a comparatively recent
writer; though the writer of several volumes, I
have never yet seen one of her works adver-
tised. She died in 1850.
	Adelaide Procter, the daughter of a poet,
was herself a poet of renown. She was born
in London in 1825, and died in 1864. She did
not write voluminously, but many of her
pieces are true and pretty. Perhaps none is
better known now than "Rise! For the day is
Passing." "One by One" is very sweet and
well known.
	Her genius was not so great as many others,
but she was a true and noble womau; who de-
voted her whole life to doing good. Her
poetry is well written and displays the work-
ings of a benevolent high toned mind.
		BIRDIE CLYDE.


NEW ENGLAND GIRLS.

SOME INTERESTING STATISTICS GIVEN BY
	A LADY WHO HAS MADE A STUDY
			OF THE SUBJECT.

	It has often been asked what becomes of the
surplus of the female over the male popula-
tion of some of the states, especially of Mas-
sachusetts and Connecticut and perhaps some
of the other "down east" commonwealths.
An estimable lady by the name of Miss
Rebecca Jones, who herself belongs to that
number, and who was a school teacher for
nearly twenty years in a small New England
town, and who is now visiting friends in
Brooklyn, gave some interesting statistics
bearing upon this point to the writer of this
article.  She said:
	"I have kept a record of the girls who have
graduated from the high school of my native
village, where I have been a school teacher
since 1871, what they have done and what has
become of them."
	She gave the figures for the classes of the
years 1871 to 1876—from eighteen to eleven
years ago—and strange figures for any marry-
ing and giving in marriage community they
are. Continuing, she said:


"The average age of the female graduate from
a typical New England school is between six-
teen and seventeen years. Hence it will ap-
pear that the women of whom this list has
been made, ranging to-day between twenty-
nine and thirty-four years old, have done the
greater part of all the 'settling in life' that
they are likely to do. Out of a total of ninety-
nine graduates there were twenty-seven mar-
riages, eleven deaths and sixty-one are still
single. Strange as it might seem, the eleven
deaths were all caused by consumption. There
have been two cases of insanity, both of the
twenty-seven married group. The largest
number of children of any is three. Three of
the girls went to college after leaving the high
school, all of whom are married.
	"Of the unmarried sixty-one, twenty-one
follow a very usual feminine calling—that of
schoolma'm! One is at Hampton, Va., teach-
ing the Indians; the other twenty are in
country schools in or near their homes. Three
set type; one reads proof; one is head dress-
maker in a large establishment in New York
city; four are dressmakers on their own hook;
one is practicing medicine; three are music
teachers; fifteen are stitchers and buttonhole
makers in shoe shops, and the rest are home
bodies.
	"Just what has brought about such a pre-
ponderance of spinsterhood it is not altogether
easy to say. Some people have contended that
it did not exist, but statistics prove to the con-
trary. Such people have explained the great
surplus of women in New England on the sup-
position that most of them are widows, made
so by the hazardous occupation of the men
along the eastern coast. Widows there are in
plenty, but this sixty-one of my record cer-
tainly never married.
	"Probably most of them never had an oppor-
tunity to marry. There are few marriageable
young men at the present time to be found in
most of the small New England towns. The
serene quiet of this most lethargic rural sec-
tion of the country does not suit the active
spirit of young men of the day. They go
away before they are old enough to marry, and
the chances are that they don't come back
again.
	"If they do return they are impressed with
the lack of money in New England, outside of
the cities, by the length of time since the
houses have been painted, and the amount of
calculation required before he can find a place
where he can satisfactorily spend a dollar.
They do not stay long enough to admire the
hardy thrift that can wring a comfortable
support from the stony soil where a New
Yorker would starve, and 'the girls they left
behind them' cannot compare, so they seem to
think, for beauty of dress, fascinating coquetry
or small talk of society with the blandishments
of the city girls, who have insensibly become
their standard of admiration.
	"These things considered, it is fortunate for
the spinster that she is fast learning to think
it a natural and not altogether unpleasant
state of affairs to be what she is. They do not
look an unhappy lot, and New England is
learning to be tender of and appreciate them.
She does not call them 'old maids,' and the
fiction of their youth is kept up till they die.
One may hear of the 'Fisher girls,' the 'Smith
girls,' and so on for weeks before the truth
dawns that the 'girls' are well past the half cen-
tury milestone of life. They never married and
no one was ever cruel enough to mark out any
line beyond which they ceased to be young.
They are self-respecting and universally res-
pected.
	"There are New England towns great num-
bers, where the best educated and best bred
Yankee girl, of the best colonial families, can
go into the shoe shop and work there for years

[Column 2]

after she has ceased to be a girl, save by
courtesy, and still read the classics and move
in, perhaps lead, the most aristocratic society
of the town."—New York Mail and Express.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


GENERAL CONFERENCE.

	What a comfort to be seated, where we are
 sure we shall not lose a word of the eloquent,
soul-cheering words that are uttered at these
meetings. As we look round over the vast as-
semblage, and think with compassion of the
company who will sit with their heads bent
forward, and their ears strained to catch the in-
spired words, as they fall from the lips of one
who perchance, they longed and prayed to see
again in those assemblies, I can't but exclaim
in my heart—O! for a Brigham Young to
reason again with mothers who will persist in
bringing babes to drown with their precious
voices, the words which many have traveled so
far to hear. Now I'm not a crusty old maid
who dreads the sight of a child, and perhaps
my love for them is one reason why I wish
more earnestly for some one to show mothers
the wrong they do the sweet babes,as well as the
thousands whom they deprive of the feast
which they came to enjoy.
	I have thought the tired look on the faces of
both mothers and babes, would surely discour-
age them in bringing them again; but alas!
meeting after meeting, year after year, mothers
will persist in bringing, even into the center of
this vast building, children, whom they must
know will prevent themselves, as well as others
from hearing; but I think I hear you say: "do
not mothers need the encouraging words which
they may chance to catch between the cries of
their babes?" I answer if they do not, I don't
know who does. I am a mother myself; and
if I can't change with some one and leave my
little ones in good hands I will get my confer-
ence from the papers or at smaller meetings.
	I don't suppose my words will take effect on
the multitude, that is why I wished so heartily
for a Brigham Young.
	All honor too to the feeble voices who are
still able to instruct hundreds in a smaller
building; but if their owners could see the
drooping of the features, and realize the sink-
ing of the souls of the multitude, as they strive
to sit quietly and watch their motions while
their words are inaudible, and then to see the
kindling of the features and imagine the light-
ness of spirit when they see one who has a
strong, powerful voice arise to speak; and who,
but for the noise of children, would make all in
this vast building hear, they would surely cut
their remarks short and leave the main part of
the preaching to those whose voices can be
heard. I have been looking around for those
ushers who invite people to put their news-
papers in their pockets, and wondering why it
is worse to occupy the hour or more, we have
to sit here to secure a good seat, in reading the
news, than it is to spend it in chatting, or
scribbling as I have been doing.
		AN OBSERVER.
	Tabernacle April 8th, 1889.


[Column 1]

WOMEN OF SAMOA.

	The women still love to dress in the natural
products of the native bush. Around their
throats they wind necklaces formed of a dry
scarlet berry, or shells sewed upon a strip of
cloth. Sometimes a fringe made from the rib
bones of a fish is attached to this necklace, and
often a spiral boar’s tusk forms a handsome
though barbaric ornament. Like their civil-
ized sisters the Samoan belles will endure any
amount of pain and discomfort in order to be in
the fashion, but, unlike them, they enjoy leap
year privileges all the time and exercise the
right of choice, for time or for eternity, with

[Column 2]

perfect freedom from a suspicion of unmaiden-
liness.
	The Samoan women, as a rule, are good
looking, but every village boasts its "beauty."
"Tampo" is the Samoan name given to the
village queen. Generally she is the ruling
chief's own daughter, or one adopted by him.
She is at all times a girl of high rank in the
place itself, or in that of her parentage. From
the first day of her installment to the day of
her departure, marriage, elopement, or dethrone-
ment for bad behavior (which in quite recent
times was effected with a club), she is virtually
the queen of the place. It is she who receives
strangers on arrival in her town, makes kava
for them, and personally sees to their comfort
and entertainment. Never, from one year's
end to another, is she permitted, to be out of
sight of her attendants. When abroad she is
invariably accompanied by as many of her
youthful companions as are available for the
service. They follow her in single file where-
ever she goes. She heads all processions, and
visits and takes the leading part in all "swas,"
or native dances.
	Her attire on gala days is of the gayest de-
scription that the town can afford; and every-
thing is ungrudgingly sacrificed that can add
to the glorification of her personal appearance.
It is she, on these occasions, who has mainly
to uphold the prestige of the town. It is only
when dressing for any ceremony that she ap-
pears to have no will of her own. On such
occasions, a long time before the commence-
ment of the ceremonial, the old women take
entire possession of her. On them devolves
the exercise of the mysteries of the Samoan
boudoir. Everything is done for the proud
damsel, who stands patiently suffering any
amount of coercion, one tithe of which she
would not permit for a second were it not part
of her duty as the beauty of the town. She
is first taken in hand by two or three of her
attendants, who briskly shampoo her all over
with sweet scented oil until her warm colored
skin shines like satin. Another will energetic-
ally brush her jet black locks, and afterward
plait or otherwise arrange them in the manner
that the combined wisdom of the old people,
assisted by the suggestions of twenty or thirty
of her youthful companions, may dictate.
She will then be ready to entertain "the stran-
ger" and prepare for him the kava.
	Above all things the native women excel in
the art of dancing and posturing. The most
popular dance among them is the "Siva,"
which is performed by four or five maidens to
the accompaniment of a tuneless song and
drumming on the tom-tom. It consists of
posturing and movements of the body and
hands, which are made in unison and in time
with the music. Some of the figures are ex-
ecuted while standing erect upon the feet, but
in most of them the dancers sit cross-legged
upon strips of matting spread upon the ground.
The postures are many and varied. Some-
times the right hand rests upon the neigh-
bor's left shoulder, and left hand upon the
dancer's knee, and sometimes this motion is
reversed. One position is with the right hand
spread upon the ground in front, and the fingers
of the left hand touching the biceps of the
dancer's right arm. Another is a more
thoughtful attitude. The right hand supports
the left elbow, while the left cheek rests upon
the index finger of the left hand. Of all the
graceful Samoan dancers none can compare
with the daughter of Patua, one of Metaafa's
most prominent chieftains. Her movements
are so exquisitely graceful and full of such
dreamlike motion that Europeans and natives
alike have combined in naming her "The
Dream."—Sacramento (Cal.) Report.


A girl's club for the study of domestic
economy has been formed in St. Louis.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMEN CANNOT GONERN.

And why shouldn't women govern ?
	History furnishes examples
Of illustrious female rulers—
	Any schoolboy'll give you samples,
There are Thomyris and Dido,
	Down Time's corridors so musty
With Semiramis a-marching,
	And their names are not yet dusty!

When was England's glory greater,
	When her record e'er more splendid
Than when "Good Queen Bess" was "boss" there,
	And before her gladly bended
Noble warriors, statesmen, poets—
	Names immortal in Westminster—
When earth's mightiest, William Shakespeare,
	Was	the subject of a spinster ?

		MARY NORTAN BRADFORD.


[Column 1]

IMPROMPTU LINES.
INSCRIBED TO
MR. AND MRS. WILLIAM S. CLARK.  
ON THE OCCASION OF THEIR GOLDEN WEDDING.  

Out on the brink of long years we pause,
	To echoing tread of distant day.
Thrilled with mysterious subtle cause,
	No human wisdom can e'er gainsay.

While o'er a chasm of five decades,
	Memory beckons with lamp aglow.
But who can fathom, or who can guage,
	Histories hidden in depths below?

Conflicts and victories, lost or won.
	Opportunities slighted, improved,
Burdens long carried, or work undone,
	Varying changes of ill or good.

Bright golden hours that swiftly flew,
	Time's precious jewels, recklessly strown.
Rejoicings, greetings, and sad adieus,
	Visions of beauty, and hopes forlorn!

We'll trust infinite wisdom alone,
	To read the record of years aright,
Thus far this merciful care is shown.
	Thro' morning noon-tide, to gray-haired night.

Now o'er time's chasm on FANCY'S wing,
	We roam again youth's fields of delight,
In bud and blossom of life's early spring,
	In rapturous love our pledges plight.

The years roll back like a misty dream,
	The pleasures of youth are ours once more. 
We muse again on the same sweet theme,
	Greet the same faces we loved of yore.

Blissful existence mem'ry doth hold,
	Firm health and courage, youth's strength and stay
She gives us back in measure full told,
	Voices, kind greetings, music's sweet lay.

As light breaks o'er the fallen snow,
	Cheering late travelers on their way,
So MEMORY, with her lamp aglow,
	Gilds over the pathway of decay.

And from this our "Golden Wedding" day,
	In humble faith we will bide our time,
Until called from earthly scenes away,
	Into life more perfect and sublime.

		L. M. HEWLINGS.
	Mach 5th, 1889.


THE POETS WORKSHOP.

	The idea of a poet suggests beauty and
loveliness. We read of the poets dream, the
poets reverie, and his imaginings, until we
create in our own minds an ideal picture of
the poet and his surroundings. We think of
him as seated with pencil in hand and in
elegant negligee, dashing off line after line of
exquisite sentiment, or historic lore in rhyme,
that will live long after he has passed away,
without any apparent effort, while he smiles
blandly and is at peace with all mankind.
There are persons who will ask one to write

[Column 2]

a poem with as much assurance as they would
ask a mechanic to plane a board, but in the
one case the carpenter would expect his wages,
whereas the poet is expected to give his services
gratis, and sometimes look upon it as a com-
pliment to be invited to write. These are the
people who have not the least idea what posi-
tive drudgery there is in being a writer.
The author, or the correspondent, is expected
to write when all others are out for pleasure;
there is no cessation or vacation for him, it is
an endless round, and if he positively refuses,
why then he is looked upon as unobliging.
He is invited here and there because he writes
those sort of affairs up, until he gets the im-
pression that he is never asked on his own
account, but simply because he has the faculty
of writing in a pleasant style. Probably the
poet is expected to do more work without re-
muneration than any other person. "O, the
rhymes will come," and "it is easy for him,"
and "I'm sure if I could write I wouldn't re-
fuse." These are only one or two of the
numerous comments made about poets.
	But suppose we take a look into one of these
dens of the poets, ordinary poets, not Tennyson
or Whittier, who have arrived at the dignity
of a mansion, whose star of fortune has risen
to the highest point in the horizon and is illum-
inated with a halo of light in which appear
clusters of stars less brilliant, that reflect the
light of the leading, guiding star; not one of
these, but some one just trying to earn a bare
subsistence by the use of the pen. Gifted he
may be, but without fortune to aid him, or in-
fluential patronage to give him prestige. We
are apt to think of the poet writing pastoral
pieces in the midst of sunny fields, where flocks
graze and sleek cattle feed among the clover
in the verdant meadows, while sparkling
streams of crystal waters bubble near, and
merry birds warble their sweetest notes in the
groves hard by. All this is very pretty, but
the poet sees it in imagination only, most likely
while he sits by his midnight lamp and pries
over musty old papers and books.
	Let us take a peep at a poet's work, in an
attic or a basement, one whose mind soars aloft
into the aerial realms of fancy, and who roams
at will through the elysian fields that gild his
day-dreams and makes him seem above the
"common herd." In one corner is a chest or
trunk half-open perhaps; you see part of a
wardrobe; rolls of manuscript and letters tied
with cords of every color, or scraps of faded
ribbon, a bureau with the drawers all half-
open and in disorder, two or three tables piled
with papers in the direst confusion imaginable,
but on one corner, a tea tray with soiled nap-
kins, cup and saucer, part of a loaf of bread,
a piece of cheese, and if we might be per-
mitted to tell it, a raw onion, and oftener still a
black bottle very significant in appearance.
Late iu the night when all the lights burn low,
the streets and lanes are dark, and the stars
keep watch in the midnight sky the poet pens
his richest, most harmonious lays; or the cor-
respondent, no longer tormented and inter-
rupted by the calls of friends anxious to make
his acquaintance, or some one desirous of a
notice from his able pen, begins the work so
long delayed, and the cocks are crowing, and
the sun tinging the eastern sky with the
splendor and radiance of the new born day,
ere he lays down his pen and finds rest in that
dream-land where his poetic fancy has been so
fondly straying. No wonder he is restless and
nervous, sensitive and irritable, his mind con-
stantly wrought to the highest pitch of extreme
sensibility.
	Now we have taken a look at the man who
writes, let us for a moment look in upon a 
poet-woman; imagination almost invariably
pictures to the mind's eye what the woman is
who writes the kind of articles we love to
read, as we sit by the cosy fireside in the winter

[Column 3]

evenings, or repeat over and over in the pen-
sive, summer twilight. We think of her as
lovely in its proudest sense, gentle, amiable
and courteous to all, sweet-mannered, a lady
in every respect, always becomingly dressed,
and neat in appearance, dainty, even; fond of
children and inclined to be devotional, almost
without fault at all, and blind to the failings
of others. Her home exquisite in all its ar-
rangements; her husband, if she be so fortunate
as to possess one, always proud and happy.
Now let us consider the poets we have met, or
the writers we have known. Among them are
some pretty and sweet, perhaps a trifle inclined
to jealousy, and not very aimable in their own
homes.  How can they be, they are not think-
ing of what to eat, or how to dress, or alas!
of the husband's wordrobe; and often when
they try to darn his socks they are flitting in
imagination among the soft, white, fleecy clouds,
and yet they are only commonplace to look at,
sometimes ugly in face and feature, but then
we only see the outward, the beauty is within,
and only makes itself manifest by soul-stirring
sentences, so delightfully arranged, that al-
though written in a garret, an attic, a dirty
kitchen, or a dingy basement, they light up a
thousand homes, and make gladness in human
hearts enough to compensate for lack of beauty
in form, or feature.
	Few lady writers have been beautiful, even
in youth, many passingly so, but to excel in
loveliness only a very few; of those who have
lived recently we can think of some who were
noted for their excessive plainness. The story
goes that a lady who was much given to scrib-
bling and whose powers were the admiration of
all the country round, and whose husband
withal was very proud of her, was one day
stoutly reproved by him for neglecting the
little ones, who were very noisy and trouble-
some. While baby, not yet a year old, lay in
the cradle crying for mamma, one boy had spilt
the ink, slapped his sister, and another had
broken the window, while the mother sat
writing on and on, as if unconscious of all
surroundings; at last the irate parent and hus-
band appeared upon the scene, and in dicta-
torial terms protested, tossing up her papers
and exciting her angry passions; finally, wo-
man-like, she began to cry, and refused to be
comforted, but amid her sobs, she managed to
make him understand, she had just finished a
touching little poem on domestic felicity, or the
pleasures of home. Suffice it to say he was
convinced against his will, that she appreciated
her home when he perused the poem, and never
afterwards was known to rebel, for she won
him over to her way of thinking, and all be-
cause she was a genius. But joking aside, to
have the desire, the longing to write, the intense
fascination, to be able to skim through the
clouds of fancy and weave a golden web of fine
spun threads, of which each one is like a
jewel radiantly set, is something no one ever
can comprehend, save one of these same fanci-
ful, poetical scribblers, who live in a world of
their own creation, and only come down from
the towering heights of fancy, when they are
hungry, cold or wretched. Such is the poet's
workshop, not what it really is, but what it
seems to him.
		AUNT EM.


The Governor of Tennessee, on the 26th inst.,
signed a bill making women eligible to the
office of County Superintendent of Educa-
tion.
	Mas.  Zerelda G. Wallace says: "Mr.
Bellamy's new book, 'Looking Backward,' is
the greatest book of its kind of the century,
and its effect upon the solution of the wage
and labor question will, I believe, be as power-
ful for good as was 'Uncle Tom's Cabin' upon
the kindred question of human slavery."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	APRIL 15, 1889.


[Column 1]

FIRST GENERAL CONFERENCE OF THE
RELIEF SOCIETY.

	(The first general conference of the Relief So-
ciety was held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall
Saturday evening April 6th, 1889)  Besides
about fifteen representatives of the various Stakes
the following ladies were upon the stand. Prest-
Zina D. H. Young; Counselors Jane S. Richards
and Bathsheba W. Smith; M. I. Horne, Sarah M.
Kimball, Emmeline B. Wells, Romania B. Pratt,
and Presendia L. Kimball. (President Zina D. 
H. Young presiding;) congregation sang
"O, My Father Thou that dwellest," prayer
by Presinda L. Kimball; singing "Praise to the 
man who communed with Jehovah."
	Prest. Zina Young said: "My sisters, upon this
occasion I hope you will give me your faith and
prayers. As I look upon the sisters around me, I
realize we miss our beloved Sister Eliza, who on all
such occasions was with us. In the providence of
the Lord shewas taken from us. She mingles
with those above; we revere her memory. As this
is our first meeting of this kind I hope we can
unite our hearts as one that the Lord will bless us
in so coming together. May everything be agree-
able that takes place here this evening."
	Romania B. Pratt, the assistant secretary, then
read the totals of the general statistical reports,
and the names of the Stake presidents of the
Relief Society. On account of existing circum-
stances Prest. Zina Young had written what she
wished to say, and it having been approved by 
Prest. Woodruff, Mrs, Wells then read the paper.
PRESIDENT ZINA D. H. YOUNG.
	The Relief Society, under whose auspices we
have met together here to-night, to receive in-
struction, and advice in our several duties, was
first organized nearly half a century ago, by the
Prophet Joseph Smith; after the pattern of the
Holy Priesthood, and under its direction, to dis-
pense temporal blessings to the poor and needy:
and to give encouragement to the weak, and re-
strain the erring ones, and for the better develop-
ment, and exercise of woman's sympathies, and
charities, that she might have opportunity to at-
tain spiritual strength, and power for the accom-
plishment of greater good in the work of the re-
demption of the human family.
	We should be diligent in all the duties of life,
as mothers and wives, and as members ot the
Church, remembering to attend the meetings of
the Saints, including our Fast-day meetings, and
pay willing offerings to the poor, and our dona-
tions to the Temple; and with whatever belongs,
especially to the mothers, observe the law of
Tithing that the blessing promised may follow,
and that the little children may be taught this
important principle by example and educated in the
path of duty, which is the path of safety. Teach

[Second 2]

them to keep the "Word of Wisdom," and to be
temperate in all things; avoiding all evil habits
and pernicious practises, that they may have
strong bodies, and be entitled to the promise that
follows obedience to this commandment.
	Let us be careful to speak with wisdom before
our little ones, avoiding fault-finding, and slang
phrases, and cultivate the higher attributes of
our nature, that will tend to elevate, refine and
purify the heart, and make the home the centre of
attraction, where the spirit of love, peace and
unity will dwell, and that sweet charity that
thinketh no evil will ever abide; that we might
always be possessed of that heavenly principle
embodied in the song "Nay speak no ill."
	We should take the utmost pains to teach the
children of Zion to be honest, virtuous, upright
and punctual in all their duties; also to be indus-
trious and keep the Sabbath day holy; not to be
rigid or too severe, but as far as possible make all
duties pleasurable. Mothers should never speak
a word detrimental to the father's best interest
before the children, for they are close observers.
Sow good seeds in their young and tender minds,
and always prefer principle to policy, thus you will
lay up treasures in heaven.
	Our sisters who have been called to preside in
a Stake capacity, over several branches of the
Relief Society, should plead for wisdom from
above to direct their efforts, that the greatest
possible good may be accomplished. They
should visit each branch society in the Stake at
least once a year, and oftener if circumstances
will permit. Where sisters can do so, it would be
desirable and we think profitable, to visit each
other's organizations and become acquainted; it
will tend to union and harmony, promote confi-
dence, and strengthen the chords that bind us to-
gether, for there is more difference in our manner
of speech, than in the motives of our hearts.
	If the President of the society cannot be pre-
sent to preside, it is her duty to see that one of
her counselors attends to take charge of the meet-
ing, for the success of an organization depends
very much upon the efficiency and promptitude of
its officers. When a vote is required one of the
Counselors should make the motion, and after it
has received a second, the President shonld pre-
sent the motion, and call for the vote. President
Joseph Smith's instructions to the Relief Society
were, that the meetings should be conducted in a
parliamentary manner.
	President Young, in great wisdom we believe,
established the custom of holding quarterly con-
ferences, for the more perfect unity of interest in
the Relief Society, and President Woodruff ad-
vises us to continue in this respect as we have
been doing in the past. We should also keep
correct minutes of our meetings, that we may 
have a complete record, and then with very little
trouble exact reports can be made to the General
Conference.
	I trust the sisters will not neglect or grow
weary in the duty required of them in storing
up wheat. If it needs changing to preserve it,
the Presidency advise, in the case of loaning it,
the giving of written security, by the Bishop,
for the full amount, and something added to
allow for shrinkage, that the loan may be a safe
business transaction, and that all interested may
be satisfied.
	When Relief Society Conferences are to be
held, the Presidency of the Stake and the Bishops
should be informed of the time, and invited to
attend the meetings, that harmony and union
may exist, and strength and encouragement be
given to the diligent sisters, and that others see-
ing their good works, might be induced to come
to meeting, and enjoy the same good spirit and
feeling, that pervades the hearts of those who
meet often one with another, to be instructed in
their duties, and to gain spiritual strength and
wisdom for the various ylcissitudies of life.

[Column 3]

	It is the privilege of the sisters, who are faith-
ful in the discharge of their duties, and have re-
ceived their endowments and blessings in the house
of the Lord, to administer to their sisters, and
to the little ones, in times of sickness, in meek-
ness and humility, ever being careful to ask in
the name of Jesus, and to give God the glory.
	Do not find fault with the Providences of God,
it will not better our condition and only make
our burdens heavier to bear; but rather be
patient through all the trials of life, and speak
not against the Lord's anointed.
	It is our duty to be self-sustaining, and to foster
and encourage home industries, and home manu-
factures, and patronize those institutions that have
been established for the best interests of Zion;—
the co-operative stores; and be careful not to use
the means we have been blessed with, to build up
those, who are seeking to destroy and overthrow
the work of God, and to plant discord, strife and
dissension in our midst.
	The silk culture is one of the branches of home
industry, that demands our earnest attention. I
have never yet doubted, but, that it would event-
ually become a fruitful source of revenue to this
country. In the first sermon that I heard Brigham
Young preach in this valley, he remarked "there
is silk in these elements," and I have heard a
number of silk weavers say, "Utah silk was the
best fibred silk, they had ever seen." Sisters do
not be discouraged in any of the duties we have
undertaken to perform; I am aware we have many
responsibilities resting upon us, and also realize,
that we all have great need to be diligent and
prayerful. The Deseret Hospital is one of the insti-
tutions that needs to be sustained, in order that we
may have a place where the sick and the afflicted
among our people, may go when it is necessary,
and receive the medical and surgical care, nursing
and attention suited to their condition; and where
they can have the Elders of the Church to ad-
minister in the sacred ordinances of the holy
priesthood. We should not forget, or neglect our
duty to this charitable institution; keep up your
monthly donations for the Society, and continue
to be members of the Association, and remember
"he that giveth to the poor lendeth to the Lord
and He will repay."
	We should use our influence, too for the estab-
lishment and maintenance of educational institu-
tions, in which our children and young people,
may be taught the true principles of the everlast-
ing Gospel; and discourage any tendency to out-
side influences, calculated to lead them into doubt
or unbelief. In all things possible, let us en-
deavor to cultivate our home talent and stimulate
our sisters to read, and to write, that they may be
intelligent wives and mothers; read good books,
especially the Bible, Book of Mormon and
Doctrine and Covenants. The EXPONENT, is at
present, the only paper we have where the voice
of woman is sent forth especially, to instruct us in
our duties, and encourage the brave and deter-
mined ones to persevere in the midst of difficulties,
and also to give expression to the views and
opinions of the women of Zion on subjects of vital
importance. And we recommend that the sisters
subscribe for it, and read it, that they may be
posted upon the condition, growth and progress of
the various organizations of the women in Zion,
and elsewhere; and become familiar with the
efforts being put forth, for the uplifting, and
further advancement of all womankind; and of
the changes made from ttme to time in the direc-
tion of progress.
	Sisters, let us be as one grand phalanx and
stand for the right; let us be humble and firm,
honor truth, and be valiant in sustaining it, not
presuming, but trust-worthy in all things. Have
we not shouldered the cross of the world's scorn,
and braved its anathema with more valor, than
the warrior the cannon's fury? Death with him,
and then all is over, but we endure to live


[Column 1]

﻿eternally. Purity, love and integrity, let these
virtues live in our hearts; then the sunshine of a
loving Father's smile will be ours. Do not doubt
the goodness of God or the truth of the work in
which we are engaged; but learn obedience, it is
better than sacrifice; follow our file leaders and
fear not.
	May we do a work acceptable to our Heavenly
Father, and that will meet the approbation of our
brethren, who are called upon to endure for the
truth’s sake, what the Ancients did, when seeking
to establish righteous principles to benefit
humanity. May we as women of Zion, ever know
and honor our true position, and continue to grow
in grace, and abound in good works, until He
whose right it is to reign shall come.
	Counselor Jane S. Richards then said: "I trust
my beloved sisters, I may have an interest in your
faith and prayers for they avail much. I feel
many times that it is the greatest pleasure we
have—the privilege of praying—for no one can
rob us of this. The instructions from Sister Young
are such as we ought to adopt. I for one feel
like accepting them. We miss Sister Snow, and
although she encouraged us saying "Don't get
faint, go ahead," Sister Young now fills her place
and gives the same advice.
	I was thinking how befitting the words of
Sister Young in regard to the Hospital were. If
we do not have to go there, there are others with-
out homes coming a long distance, who find care
and attention in this place for the sick. The
greater willingness of the sisters, daily, betokens
an increase in our charity. The charity we want
is that which is manifested in kindness and for-
bearance towards one another. We frequently
do little things which try each other, and it is
then we should exercise our charity. Especially
should we be forgiving towards the young;
they have a long life before them, and if
in spending a few moments frequently with them
we probably can teach them to avoid mistakes we
have made, let us do so. Let us seek for the
spirit that characterized our Savior; in Him was
perfect kindness.
	I desire to say a word in regard to the EXPO-
NENT. In it, sisters, we can learn a great deal in
regard to our daily duties. It has been edited
with great patience by Sister Wells. Do we ac-
knowledge it as we ought ? I believe we have
been a little careless in this regard." The
speaker invoked the blessing of God upon the
congregation.
	President Zina Young stated she was anxious
to hear from those representatives who had come
a great distance.
	President Anna Ivins, president of Relief
Society of St. George Stake represented the or-
ganization of the same, stating that although the
country was hard, they possessed the necessaries
of life if not the luxuries. "The attendance in the
twenty four wards of the Stake is small in com-
parison with yours in this section. It takes a
month for me to visit the wards."
	Counselor Martha Hammond of San Juan Stake
stated that in attending conference in San Juan
they had to travel over a hundred miles, neverthe-
less the sisters were true and faithful in attending.
The speaker realized that if we were blessed as
we expected, the settlements would soon grow
closer, thus easing matters and enabling the First
Presidency of the R. S., to visit them.
	President Hinckely from Bannock Stake said they
had fifteen ward branches. "The attendance with
some is regular with others not so. We need very
much the visits of the sisters of the presidency.
The speaker expressed great joy in receiving such
good instructions as were imparted in the meeting.
	Emery Stake was represented by President
Annie U. Larsen who stated that she in company
with several others had recently visited the seven
branches in that Stake and found them in fairly
good order. They had grain on hand. There

[Column 2]

could not be found any destitute among their
portion of the church. In several instances the
Relief Society had assisted missionaries.
	Counselor B. W. Smith expressed great joy in
meeting with the sisters as they were assembled.
"When the Relief Society was first organized
as I well remember, there were but few, but those
few had a good spirit. I can hardly realize it to
have grown so much. We should set an example
before every one worthy to be followed, being
punctual, diligent and charitable. We should
cultivate the Spirit of the Lord and thus avoid be-
ing led astray."
	The General and Stake authorities of the
Relief Society were then presented to be sustained
by vote by Sister Sarah Kimball, the vote was
unanimous.
	The roll of stakes was called and responses
made as follows: Bannock, Bear Lake, Box
Elder, Davis, Emery, Juab, Kanab, Millard,
Oneida, Salt Lake, St. George, San Pete, Sum-
mit, Weber, Morgan, (presidents.) Beaver,
Parowan, Panguitch, San Juan, (counselors.)
	(Sister M. I. Home then spoke, saying she con-
sidered it a great privilege to meet together,where
by the blessing of God correct principles could
be advanced and we learn to become more per-
fect. She realized that Sister Eliza's mantle had
fallen on Sister Zina just as Elijah's desended
upon Elisha. Sister Eliza had been with us long,
and we felt her absence, and there was another
associated with us formerly whom we missed,
Mother Whitney, who had so often in our meet-
ings sung in the gift of tongues in the language
spoken in the Garden of Eden and blest us all
and lifted us for the time above the cares of the
world, and we cherish their memory in our hearts,
their loving words and wise counsel can never be
forgotten. The reward for our labors is not to
be obtained in this life but awaits us at the gates
of Heaven. The speaker bore her testimony to
the fact that, in the face of the seemingly most
insurmountable difficulties it was the duty of the
sisters to press on in their good and noble work.
These difficulties appear when our minds are
clouded with unstable thoughts, but if we but
think, we can see the munificence of God's bless-
ings on every hand. The Lord is our friend and
helper and in trusting in Him are we aided.
	The Kingdom of God is a kingdom of order.
Joseph Smith's instructions in regard to the con-
ducting of our meetings were, that parliamentary
rules should be observed. Always transact your
business first. Then bear your testimonies. The
Secretary should be very particular in taking
minutes, not necessarily long, but complete. The
Secretary and Treasurer just before a conference
should meet and compare notes, making their re-
ports perfect.
	President Young invoked the blessings of God
upon the congregation, after which, the meeting
adjourned for six months. Congregation sang on
page 107 "Lord dismiss us with Thy blessing."
Benediction pronounced by Sister Harriet Snow.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

EDITORIAL NOTES.

	The minutes of the Woman Suffrage Meeting
held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall, on Thurs-
day April 11th, came too late for this issue, but
will appear in our next.
	The General Conference of the Church held in
the Tabernacle in this City April 6th, 1889 was
probably the largest Conference ever held since
the organization of the Church. It was an event
of very great importance and will never be for-
gotten by those who were present especially the
meeting on Sunday afternoon when the various
quorums of the priesthood seated according to
their order, and all the members of the Church
voted for the reorganization of the First Presi-

[Column 2]

dency and to sustain  all other officers in their
several positions and callings. The First Presi-
dency as sustained by the Conference are Wilford
Woodruff President, George Q. Cannon, First
and Joseph F. Smith, Second Counselors.
	The Annual meeting of the 8th Ward Primary
Association was held March 19th in the meet-
ing house, Mrs. Jane Cowan presiding. Visitors
present were Mrs. Louie Felt President of the
Central Board of the Primary, Mrs. Lillie
Freeze her First Counselor, and Mrs. Ellen
C. Clawson and Lydia Ann Wells of the Stake
Board, also Mrs. E. B. Wells and Elizabeth
Howard. The house was nearly filled and the
exercises were of a very edifying character besides
being well rendered. A class of little ones re-
eited  "The Floral Alphabet," which was an interest-
ing feature of the occasion. The children all per-
formed their parts in a creditable manner. Re-
marks calculated to inspire faith and stimulate to
good works were made by Mrs. E. B. Fletcher and
Mrs. C. Palmer, and also by Bishop Sheets and
Elder John Needham. A tempting collation was
spread for all; the children had their picnic in an
adjoining room where they made merry to their
hearts content in feasting.
	Seven of Drs. Shipp students in obstetrics
graduated March 30th, and received their Di-
plomas from the examining committee, and they
were also blessed and set apart for their work as
practitioners among the people, at the Historian's
Office preparatory to leaving for their homes.
Their names and places of residence are as fol-
lows: Miss Emma Hillstead, S. L. City, Miss Mary
Sawyer, American Fork, Utah Co., Mrs. Parthenia
A. Holt, Hoytsville, Summit Co., Mrs. Christina
Peterson, Scipio, Millard Co., Mrs. Mary Sorenson, 
Teton Bingham. Co., Idaho Mrs. Louisa Gibbs,
Paradise, Cache Co., Mrs. Libbie Bybee, Hooper-
ville, Weber Co. There was an interesting pro-
gramme for the evening's entertainment in which
recitations were given, songs were sung, instru-
mental music on the piano, and speaking by
several of the brethren and sisters who were
present. Dr. Milford B. Shipp, President
Zina D. H. Young, Dr. Maggie C. Shipp, Mrs. E.
B. Wells, President A. M. Cannon, Mrs. Mary A.
Freeze and others. Congratulations were ex-
pressed and good advice given to the fresh grad-
uates. Ice cream and other delicate refreshments
were served and the evening passed off pleasantly.
	The friends of Mr. and Mrs. George Alder of
this city offered their congratulations on the
twenty-fifth anniversary of their marriage on Mon
day evening April 8th, at their residence on South
Temple Street at which time the happy couple
celebrated their Silver wedding. It was also the
forty-fifth anniversary of the marriage of Mrs.
Alder's father and mother, who were present, and
received their share of the congratulations and
good wishes of the company of relatives and dear
friends, assembled to do honor on the happy
occasion. The bride looked charming and as
happy as though it was really the wedding day and
the sons and daughters were kept busy enter-
taining the guests. The parlors were brilliantly
lighted and handsomely decorated, and everything
betokened joy and festivity. Miss Margie Dwyer
rendered in her happy stlye some instumentalt
music on the piano, and Messrs. Alder, Barrat
and Dwyer, sang one of their favorite pieces.
Miss Dean Caine also favored the company with
one of her choice selections in song. Refresh-
ments in rich abundance, with ice cream and
wedding cake were tastefully served during the
evening and all went merry as a marriage bell.
The usual supply of wedding gifts from particular
friends were received, and there seemed nothing
wanting to add to the happiness of either host or
hostess or their sssembled guests. May their
future life be serene and happy, and their ex-
periences ever unite them still more closely to-
gether and their children rise up and call them
blessed.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


REFLECTIONS IN FASTDAY MEETING.

	My dear Sisters, especially those whose whole
souls are centered in the interests, and redemp-
tion of Zion; I am perfectly satisfied in my
mind that there are many at the present time, that
are like minded unto myself, whose burden of
their prayer is the redemption of Zion, it seems to
be the theme and topic of our Tabernacle and
Ward meetings, and it is a generally acknowledged
belief, that, that event is not far distant. But it is
very possible that even among the saints, there
may be some to whom this prayer for Zion's re-
demption may become a matter of habit, like unto
the professing Christians of to-day; praying daily
for God's Kingdom to come, without ever once
seriously asking themselves the question, do I un-
derstand what I am asking for, and am I doing my
part towards bringing it about? Well if this is the
situation that we many of us are found in to-day,
it is high time that we were aroused out of our slum-
ber, lest that day should come upon us, as has been
foretold, like a thief in the night; therefore with
a view to this end, and an eye single to the glory
of God, (though I feel myself one of the least in
His Kingdom.) I feel led as a matter of duty to
write the reflections of my mind on this great and
important subject, namely the redemption of
Zion.
	It has for some time been the most attracting
sound that met my ear, so when the opening
prayer was offered at the fastday meeting, March
7th, 1889, in which a petition was offered, for the
time to be hastened when Zion should become a
power in the midst of the earth, it caused many re-
flections to arise in my mind. It seemed to
cleave unto my mind with such force that I could
not shake it off, and the more I looked into it, the
more real it seemed to be, that small as the chosen
few of the members of God's Kingdom set up in
these last days appear to be, compared to the
nations and kingdoms of the whole earth, it is
nevertheless true, that Zion will yet become a
power in the midst of the earth; hence, the
question arose in my mind, but how long will it
take to bring that about under present existing
circumstances? and especially with the spirit of
Babylon increasing so fast in our midst; for it
seems as if instead of Zion purifying herself for
that glorious time, the saints are daily manifest-
ing an increased desire for the things of the world
and the pleasures and vanities thereof, instead of
seeking after the things of the Kingdom of God.
	Such were the reflections of my mind, as
testimony upon testimony was added, more or
less bearing on that theme or subject, until a
brother arose and spoke in tongues, and I felt at
the commencement of his testimony, that there
was a mighty power of the spirit of God in the
place, which seized my whole frame, and just as
quick as lightning, the veil was withdrawn from
my eyes, and as the tongue was acknowledged
though uninterpreted, to be on the redemption of
Zion, I saw it right close at hand just as soon as
the saints would wake up to a sense of their situ-
ation, as in the light and sight of God, and turn
round and forsake the ways of the world, and do
His will and keep His laws and commandments
with all their heart; just so sure was he waiting
ready to stretch forth his mighty arm to deliver
them from their enemies; and also with attending
the Relief Society meeting in the afternoon, and
having the privilege of listening to the wise
counsel and instructions of Sister Higbee from
Salt Lake City, who so plainly and powerfully laid
before us, the follies and abominable ways that the
daughters of Zion had fallen into, which in the
sight of God, have been a great burden on my
mind ever since I came to the land of Zion.
	This caused me to reflect, and to say to myself,
would to God that I could do anything toward
bringing about a better state of things? and the
answer to the question came to me in this manner,

[Column 2]

I will ask all my sisters that are earnestly plead-
ing for and waiting for the redemption of Zion, to
oin with me in pleading with God our Eternal
Father that he may so inspire the hearts of His
servants, that have the leadership of His Church
and Kingdom, with such a measure of His spirit
that they may be led to see and realize the pride
and vanity that exists in His Church, in the light
that He sees it, and that they may be led to do as
is spoken of in the word of God, to one of the
Ancient Prophets, namely, "to lift up their
voices, and cry aloud and spare not, and show
Israel or Zion her transgressions, and His people
their sins. And I feel as sure as I live, that just
as soon as we as a people are led to see ourselves
in the light of truth and the spirit of God enlight-
ening us, and turn round and do His will, and
walk in His ways, will that be fulfilled, spoken of
in 102 Psalm and 13 verse, namely, "Thon shalt
arise and have mercy upon Zion, for the time to
favor her, yea, the set time is come." So as I
had suffered myself to be held back from testify-
ing of the light that was given unto me, I felt
prompted to write the feelings of my mind, in
hopes that it may do some good towards the up-
building and rolling forth of the work of God;
realizing that quenching the workings of His
spirit, gives Satan more power over us for the
future. I would not have ventured to dare to take
this upon me, feeling my littleness and insignifi-
cance in the Kingdom of God, but was encour-
aged by remembering the instance found in the
1st chapter of St. John, where Andrew after hav-
ing found the Saviour, and believing that he was
indeed the Christ, was anxious after his brother
Simon Peter, and it states, "he sought him and
brought him to Jesus," and in that act he took one
that became the most mighty and valiant in His
service. So in hopes that in like manner, though
this come out of weakness, it may be received by
some of the same spirit and power as the Apostle
Peter, that it may be carried forth to the honor
and glory of God; and that we my dear sisters,
may be led to cease not our supplications unto
God our Eternal Father, and keep not silence be-
fore Him, until He makes Zion a praise and a
power in the midst of the earth.
	Your humble sister in the cause of truth,
		M. A. C.


[Column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

UTAH STAKE.
	The semi-annual conference of the Y. L. M.
I. A., was held in the Provo meeting house, at
2 and 7 p.m., with President Zina Lyons pre-
siding. The afternoon was occupied in reading
the semi-annual report of the associations, and
hearing reports from the various wards show-
ing the majority in a flourishing condition.
	Territoral President Elmira S. Taylor felt
proud of the progress made, and interest
manifested in the association, and instructed
the presidents in regard to the programs.
	Sister Annie K. Smoot, spoke of her early
experience in the Church, and the circum-
stances that caused her to join; also of the evil
resulting from bad associations.
	In the evening, after a few opening remarks
by Counselor Grace Smith, Stake president,
Zina Lyons instructed the congregation in re-
gard to sorrounding circumstances; advising
them to be examplary in all their actious.
Thought they could find more pleasure in the
performance of their religout duties than any
other way.
	Bishop H. H. Cluff thought the young ladies
were of Holy lineage and needed to watch and
pray in order to be kept in the right path that
they might gain the glory promised to the
faithful, which would cause them to sacrifice
earthly things which could not be understood
in any other way, and knew of no pleasure as

[Column 2]

satisfactory as that derived through its work-
ings.
	Brother D. John spoke of the noble mission
of woman, and the future happiness in store
for the faithful daughters of Zion; and con-
sequences resulting from evil associations,
	Presidhnt E. S. Taylor advised all to have
pure thoughts, and desiers to lead lives of
honor. Many had come among us for what
they call a refining purpose, instituting schools
of learning in our midst, and proving they
are not followers of the meek and lowly Jesus.
They are as restless as the tides of the ocean
because of the pleasure they are seeking which
is not as lasting and enjoyable as that experi-
enced through our most holy religion. Desired
the young ladies to verse themselves on the
scriptures in order to have a weapon that they
might defend themselves, God being their
helper. Counseled them in regard to choosing
a companion; not allowing themselves to give
their affections until they know of God what
was right; and to select one that would lead
them onward and upward in God’s kingdom.
Closed by bearing a firm testimony to the
truth of the work.
	An unusual portion of the Holy Spirit was
enjoyed during our conference, and the interest
ef the young people is increasing in the work
of Improvement.
		ZINA LYONS, President.
		EVLYN BILLINGS, Secretary.

UINTAH STAKE.
	The conference of the Relief Society of
this Stake of Zion, convened in the Ashly
Ward meetinghouse, March 3, 1889, President
Sarah Pope presiding. Siuging "Come all ye
Saints that dwell on earth," prayer by Brother
J. Hatch. Singing "Praise ye the Lord."
Minutes of previous conference were read and
approved. The reports of the different Socie-
ties were then read.
	President Sarah Pope made a few opening
remarks; asked an interest in the faith and
prayers of those present. Spoke of their visit
through the Stake; said there were some tried
with riches and some with poverty; spoke of
the need of charity, for there are those among
us that cannot help themselves; said if we done
the best we could, we would not be perfect;
we should try and overcome evil as much as
possible. Prayed the Lord to bless us through
this conference.
	Sister A. K. Bartlette asked an interest in
the faith and prayers of the people; bore a
faithful testimony to the truth of the Gospel.
Spoke on the resurrection of our Savior and
the mission placed on woman to perform.
Thought all should be very careful how they
partake of the sacred emblem of the Lord's
Supper; gave the sisters some good instructions
to which all listened with intense interest.
	Brother J. Hatch made a few very appro-
priate remarks which were listened to very
attentively.
	Conference adjourned until 2 p.tn. Singing
"Let those who would be Saints indeed,"
benediction by Brother I. J. Clark.
	Afternoon session. Singing "Afflicted Saints
to Christ draw near," prayer by S. R. Bennion.
Singing "Mortals awake with angels join."
Sacrament was administered by the Ashley
Ward Priesthood.
	Brother B. S. Collett then arose to address
the congregation; desired an interest in the
faith and prayers of the Saints. "We have
met to-day in the capacity of a Relief Society
conference. We find that after Joseph Smith
had organized the Church, he felt as though
there were something ladking, and therefore
organized the Relief Society." Gave the
sisters of the different wards some good in
structions in regard to their duties. He had
ever taken an interest in the young and rising
generation, and gave some good counsel to


[Column 1]

the same. He had received a great testimony
of the truth of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, and gave much more
advice, occupying a great portion of the
afternoon.
	President Bennion made a few closing re-
marks, which were very interesting to all.
Conference adjourned until the second Monday
in September. Singing. Benediction by
President Sarah Pope.
		ADDIE LONGHURST, Secretary.

BOX ELDER STAKE.
     The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Box Elder Stake convened in the
tabernacle on March 12th, at 10 o'clock a. m.
	President Harriet Snow presiding: after the
opening exercises President Harriet Snow said:
"Sister Zina Young sent her love to all, but
could not be present with us, Sister Richards
is expected with the first train." Aunt Zina
"prayed that we may have a Pentecost. If we
exercise faith for the speakers, that the Lord
may speak to us through them, we may be en-
couraged and fed."
	Statistical and financial reports from 15
different branches were read by Secretary Mary
E. Snow. Treasurer's report read by Sister
Fannie Graehl.
	Sister Richards and Sister Brown from
Ogden arrived.
	President Hubbard from Willard: "I re-
joice in the society of the saints, in the prin-
ciples of the holy gospel, we know our depend-
ence on the Lord, let us be true to each other,
true to our religion and God."
	President Perry from Three Mile Creek:
"we live in a great day, if there is anything we
love more than our Father in heaven, it be-
comes our God; and He has said: "Thou
shalt have no other God." Let us strive to set
a good example and be willing to make sacri-
fices for our religion's sake."
	President Jane Richards: "I love to meet
with my sisters, I regret I did not hear your re-
ports. This is a great work, we learn many
things, although they may seem small, we need
the spirit of God, we are nothing without it.
I think the one who speaks with the most
humility, charity and love is the best speaker.
How blest and favored we are of the Lord; our
enemies are in the dark; many will yet see
their error, that time will come when we will
feel thankful that we passed patiently through
persecution. I have been 49 years in this
church but I never saw the time that I dared
doubt the principles of the Gospel." Spoke of
the death of her first child, how President
Brigham Young taught her to acknowledge
the hand of the Lord and give up her child in
faith.
	President Mary Jansen, Third Ward: "trials
are blessing in disguise we can better compre-
hend it after, than at the time we pass through
them.  I rejoice when I see old sisters still
faithful and not tired."
	Adjourned till 2 o'clock. Singing: "How
will the saints rejoice to tell," benediction by
Counselor Olivia Widerborg.
	Afternoon session. Singing: "May we know
the joyful sound," prayer by Counselor
Susannah T. Booth. Singing: "We are not
ashamed to own our God," roll called. Con-
densed report read by the secretary.
	Emilia D. Madsen felt that even in our
sympathies and in doing good, we can improve,
we must be thoughtful and considerate. I
consider the teachers position the most delicate,
but in blessing others, they themselves are
blest.
	Susannah Facer: "It is necessary for us to
be intelligent and filled with light, there are
many things we need to learn and become
wiser."
	Sister Hattie Brown: "I feel to be one with

[Column 2]

my sisters, I have no doubt in this work, never
had. It is a grand blessing to be organized as
a Relief Society. We all have to be tried but
not always in the same manner, therefore we
must have charity, we cannot live too faithful
too prayerful, the Lord is merciful, He knows
the desire of our hearts, I wish to be honest in
all my acts."
	Sister Harding: "I know this is the work
of the Lord, we should live so we might merit
the approbation of the Lord."
	President Harriet Snow: "The more spiritual
food we get, the more capable we are of receiv-
ing it. We never should allow ourselves to
harbor feelings against any one. Let us live
humble and prayerful, that we may rejoice in
the principles of our religion."
	President Jane Richards: Spoke of the
Hospital, it is hard to get along, they need
means and encouragement, told some of the
reasons why it is not in a flourishing condi-
tion. Explained why it is necessary for us to
organize the Suffrage Association. "How little
we know, I like to get that spiritual light, that
I may always be prompted correctly."
	Counselor Adolph Madsen: "I hope the
members do not expect too much of the officers
but exercise charity, remember they are called,
they have not sought an office themselves, if I
am a bishop, should I feel I am a little better
than the members? it would be wrong, I
should feel I am a servant to my brothers and
sisters, I presume you feel the same in your
offices, judging from the remarks I have heard.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing: "Oh, my Father thou that dwellest."
Benediction by Bishop Hansen.
		EMILIA D. MADSEN, Cor. Secretary.

SALT LAKE STAKE.
	Minutes of the quarterly conference of the
Y. L. M. I. A. held in the Assembly Hall
March 15th, 1889, Mrs. Mary A. Freeze pre-
siding. Opened by singing "Who are these
arrayed in white," prayer by Mrs. E. Howard,
singing "When shall we meet Thee." Minutes
of morning session of previous conference read
and approved. Written reports were read from
the 3-4-6-7-8-10-11-14-15-17 wards.
	Mrs. Freeze was pleased with the reports,
especially the increase of testimonies, would
like to have more manuscript papers edited and
as far as possible have them original. "We all
have come to gain a blessing, we shall not be
left without light, the Holy Ghost is the
greatest instructor, we are in possession of this,
we have had this gift sealed upon us and by
united faith we will receive blessings. The
foundation is to know this work is true, but it
is necessary for all to work."
	President Zina D. H. Young: "Obedience is
better than sacrifice" "and I arise this morning
to exercise the Holy Ghost and receive the
blessings following this act. The spirit of our
Heavenly Father is intelligence, we should be
in possession of it at all times, use it in all our
home duties.
	"It is to-day with us not yesterday nor to-
morrow, but to do our duty to-day. By over-
coming our selfishness we will have pleasant
feelings toward each other." Gave some ex-
cellent instruction on the nature of our con-
versation with each other, how our influence is
felt in future generations even beyond the veil.
"There is a power in closing our eyes during
prayer, also the response at the close should be
general. Prayed we might be humble and
faithful."
	Reports were read from the 19, Farmers, Mill
Creek, South Cottonwood, South Jordan, Herri-
man, Taylorsville, Draper wards.
	Mrs. Howard: asked all with faithful
hearts to ask of our Heavenly Father His
spirit, "by united prayer we will receive the
blessing. Many are looking for something new.
We do not yet live as we should that which

[Column 3]

we have received." Urged the practice of
punctuality. "It is the practical part of our
religion I desire to speak of. Good behavior in
houses of worship should be observed, when
a speaker arises to speak, think we are being
instructed by the spirit of the Lord, cease
whispering, remain in your seats till services
are closed. Politeness is another thing we
should practice, the pleasure it brings in re-
ceiving polite attention from each other." Had
thought of having printed the constitution of
the United States and Declaration of Inde-
pendence and placed where our young ladies
could study them, and understand our political
situation, be prepared to be wives that can
stand side by side with our husbands at all
times. Learn to be grateful for the blessings
you are in possession of, read good books, study
that which will be for your good, overcome
frivolity and vanity." Prayed that the spirit
of the Lord would be with us.
	Dr. Maggie Shipp: "if we come for com-
fort and blessings, and are united in our faith
and prayers, the spirit will inspire such things
to be said as are for our good. Our souls
need food, and feel strengthened after attend-
ing these meetings." Testified of the manifesti-
tations in the Manti Temple. "Our greatest
sorrow should be if we have grieved the spirit
of the Lord. Live so we can listen to the still
small voice and follow its whisperings." Spoke of
the duties of a wife and preparing for the same,
prayed our influence might be felt for good.
	Mrs. M. Y. Dougal desired what she said
to be influenced by the spirit of the Lord.
Young ladies should do their work themselves
and serve the Lord in their youth. Spoke of
the influence we wield at home and in our as-
sociations with each other. "Do not devote so
much time to novel reading it destroys the
memory and is ruinous. The object of our as-
sociations is to teach us the principles of our
religion. Learn to be polite and polished."
Prayed we might realize our positions as
daughters of Zion.
	Adjourned till 2 o'clock; singing "Consider
the lilies. Benediction by Mary P. Young.
     Afternoon session. Opened by singing.
Prayer by Dr. R. B. Pratt, singing. Roll
called showing representatives from 20 associa-
tions. Minutes of afternoon session of previous
conference read and accepted.
	President Freeze said: "she desired the as-
sistance of Sisters Jane Freeze and Della
Eardley to aid in the work of visiting Associa-
tions. They were unanimously accepted by
the conference.
	Counselor Mary P. Young said: "It does my
heart good to see the members present; I be-
lieve there is a general waking up of the young
in all their meetings, which is very encourag-
ing. If we do not improve it is because we
turn a heedless ear to the many good teach-
ings we receive. We have good books and
good counsel with us continually and the time
will come when every thing we learn will serve
us." She closed by bearing a strong testimony,
of her knowledge that this is the true Church
of Christ.
	Mrs. Maria Holt said she desired to live
to see the Latter-day Saints grow and increase;
to see them always strive to do good. Said she
could see with the eye of faith that these young
ladies would be more mighty than their mothers
had been; and they should cultivate faith for
much is expected of them. The glorious spirit
of God makes us at all times happy. Con-
cluded her remarks by saying: "My desire is
that we may watch our footsteps well and pre-
pare our minds for the greater things that are
to come. We must be humble, faithful and
true unto the cause of truth, I pray God to
bless us that the earth may be better for our
living."
	Mrs. Jane Freeze desired the mother
to visit the associations and see wha


their daughters were doing; "they will become
more interested for such visits; teach them to
respond when called upon to take part in the
programme, and in this way they will become
more edified."
	Miss Edith Samson thought everything was
made easier by the Spirit of God: "and if the
young will only listen to the promptings of
God's spriit they will not go astray."
	Mrs. Clara S. Clarlyle said that through her
inability to attend meetings her mind had be-
come spiritually dwarfed: "we should not give
up to enjoyment at the expense of our meet-
ings but should strive to have the spirit of the
Holy Ghost with us at all times for which
spirit we should pray and live for always."
	Dr. R. B. Pratt said she was pleased to
bear her testimony to the truth of the Gospel:
"every young lady can say she believes this to
be the work of God, on a basis that is firm and
reasonable and by such a course a true knowl-
edge will come to her, and by such a course
the spirit of God does not become grieved;
we cannot understand the things of God ex-
cept by His spirit.
	Bishop Thorn said he remembered when he
was not favorably impressed with the idea of
women preaching but his mind had changed
and felt the work they had done was import-
ant. Bore testimony to the truth of the re-
marks he heard in the meeting. Prayed that
the blessings of God would forward the cause
of the work we are engaged in: "many great
events are transpiring and greater things are
yet to come. I can comprehend the work as
it is now rolling on. We will have many trials
but all will yet be well."
	Brother W. B. Dougal had observed the
good results of this work in the past. He
observed a great dearth of testimony bearing
on the part of the young and knew that the
only sure foundation was to obtain a testimony
for ourselves, which enlightens the mind for
the teachings of the servants of God: "These
teachings without the true spirit are sometimes
considered tyrannical by the young. A knowl-
edge of the truth would also reduce in number
the union of our young people with disbe-
lievers and should receive much consideration."
	President A. M. Cannon said the remarks
he had heard in this meeting were good and
would aid our cause. "That Mormon creed
'mind your own business' speaks volumes and
should receive consideration." He referred to
the subject of marriage saying "man could not
exist in a perfect state alone for man without
the woman is not in the Lord." Urged upon
the congregation the necessity of obtaining a
testimony, for nothing could dwarf a man's
efforts so effectually as an infidel wife. "God
has called us to be subject to His divine law, if
we do so we will be rewarded.  So may God
glorify and make us immortal if we do His
holy will."
	President Cannon, Bishop Thorn, and
Brothers Dougal and Curtis then set apart
Sisters Mary P. Young as first counselor to
Mary A. Freeze president of these organiza-
tions of this Stake: Sisters Maggie C. Shipp,
Edith Samson, Maria Holt, Clara S. Carlyle
and Jane Freeze as assistants; Elizabeth Smith
Secretary and Romania B. Pratt as Treasurer.
	Conference adjourned for three months,
singing, "Guide us O Thou great Jehovah."
Prayer by President A. M. Cannon.
		E. SMITH, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE UNION.
	The corresponding secretary of the Ameri-
can Woman Suffrage Association has taken
a vote of the members of the Association, by
mail, on the new constitution proposed for the
National American Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion, and the vote is favorable, by a large
majority. This practically concludes the


Union. The next meeting will be held at
Washington under the name of the National-
American W. S. A., and the call for it will be
signed by the general officers of both associa- 
tions. Until the next meeting, the present
officers of both associations will hold over.
	Woman’s Journal.	H. B. B.


A PLEASANT GATHERING.
	On the 28th day of March, the sisters of
Pleasant Green Relief Society wended their
way with baskets filled with the bounties of
earth,to spend a few sociable hours with one of
their co-laborers, Sister Nancy Deardon, Second
Counselor in the Society, who has been afflicted
for the last year and a half so that she could
not leave her home; and our good sisters think-
ing their presence would cheer and buoy her
up all came out enmasse for a few hours; and all
cast in their mite and presented her with a
handsome easy chair. Elder Samuel G.
Spencer composed a few verses for her in be-
half of the sisters, underneath them were en-
rolled the names of the members of the Society
these were put in a handsome frame and were
read during the entertainment. The sisters
also gave her a small sum of money. We had
a pleasant time and all felt well repaid and we
left Sister Nancy feeling that she was not en-
tirely forgotten.
			ALVIRA L. HIRST, President,
			FANNY H. JENKINS, Secretary.


OBITUARIES.
	It is with feelings of sadness we announce the death of
Sister Sarah Holmes, who passed peacefully from mortality
at her residence in St.Charles Idaho, February 26th, 1889.
	She had been connected with the Church for many years,
and was familiar with the trying scenes which so many of
the Saints have endured. She has for a number of years
resided in St. Charles, and since 1883 has filled the position
of Counselor to the President of the Primary Associations
of Bear Lake Stake, which she has done nobly and well.
	Notwithstanding she was advanced in years she was
never known to shirk any duty relative to her calling.
She was a peaceful unoffending woman, a faithful Saint,
and her precepts and examples will long be remembered.

Upright and honorable, chaste and refined,
Frugal and wise, thou wert good to mankind.
Brave thou hast been in defence of the right,
Seeking continually wisdom and light.
Friend of the motherless, who needed thy care
Teaching them always of sin to beware;
Trying to teach Zion's children to stand
True to each principle God should command.	
Striving to shield our dear children from sin.
By pointing the way where the victory they'd win.
How often when duty stared thee in the face,
Though thy body was weak, thou wert found in thy place;
And though storms might be raging and winds blowing high,
If appointments were made thou wert sure to be nigh;
But now thou hast passed from thine earth-friends away
To mingle with others in Heaven’s bright day.
And we feel thou hast finished thy mission on earth,
And gone to that home which was thine before birth;
Gone to meet the dear friends, thou didst love here so well,
Forever in peace with the righteous to dwell.
										AMY.

	Sister Rachel Davenport died at her residence  in
Iron County, Utah, Feb. 25th, 1889. She has been
a sufferer from Asthma and Dropsy for about eleven years,
and has borne her afflictions with patience; was always
cheerful, and had a kind word, and good advice to give
everyone, and was a strong believer in all the principles
of the Gospel. She was born April 6th, 1854, at Stockfort,
Lanchshire, England. She was the daughter of Thomas
and Mary Ann Wamby Pass, aged 34 years 10 months and
19 days.
	Her parents joined the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints in the old country. She left there when
but eight years old, and emigrated to Utah with Brother
Willivm H. Dame, who was on a mission in that part of
the country; her parents emigrated some years afterwards,
but she remained in his family; Sister Louisa Dame watched


over her as mother. She was always a good, faithful and
obedient child.
	In the fall of 1872 she was married in the Salt Lake
Endowment house to James B. Davenport, and has since
been a faithful wife and mother. She was a member, of 
our Relief Society, and was willing to do all that laid in
her power for the advancement of the work. She always
manifested in her labors that meek and unselfish disposition,
characteristic of a true Saint of God.
	She leaves a husband, three children, and a great num-
ber of relatives and friends who miss her sadly.
					ELIZA BARTON, President.
					ANNIE M. TOPHAM, Secretary.


Training School for Nurses
     On the fifteenth of May, the Second Term of Dr.
Hughes’ Training School for Nurses begins, a class
of twelve (12) students completing their first term of
three months on the fourth of May. This is the
first Training School for Nurses established in
Utah, and the instruction given embraces the best
methods of teaching of the Eastern Schools, whose
systems have been thoroughly investigated by the
teacher. The purpose of this school is to give a
wider knowledge of waiting upon the sick, and all
the branches pertaining to nursing will be thorough- 
ly discussed in the successive terms. The second
term will be held in Dr. Hughes’ new residence, on
First West Street. Students desiring to enter, should
make application as early as possible, so that ar-
rangements can be made for securing text books. 
	TUITION,	-	-	-	$25.00.
     Special arrangements can be made for Obstetrical
teaching. Address:
M. P. Hughes,
P. O. Box 575.				Salt Lake City, Utah.

WANTED.
     Gentlemen and Ladies of good address and
education to enter a commercial business,
where promotion and salary at three dollars
per day is guaranteed, small security required
“or bonds." Address for further particulars,
			M. GLASSFORD,
				354 E. Brigham Street,
					Salt Lake City, Utah.

R.K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K.THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES, 
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortmenf of
DRY GOODS.
     Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In- 
fant’s Shoes.	 
		    112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
     Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
     Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
