VOL. 17.  SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 1, 1889.  No. 23.


EMMA TOONE.

And, is she dead?  'Tis true indeed she's dead
To this cold world of misery and woe,
Yet, living in a sphere that's bright
And glorious, and hard to gain
Except by those, who true to God and right
Have earned a title to that blest abode,
	Like she has done.

And, now she's gone, we would not call her back
Again, to suffer grief and pain,
But thankful feel, that she has been released
To dwell in that bright realm
Where God and angels are,
And there to await the Ressurrection Day
	Where Jesus reigns.

Zion's Home Monthly.  WM. WILLIS.


THE DAUGHTERS OF ZION.

A daughter of Zion, that beautiful name!
	Pray to whom does this title apply?
Does it mean some fair lady of wealth and renown
	That is honored by each passer by?

Does she live in a palace in some foreign land,
	Or in some magnificent castle?
With its lakes and its parks and a retinue grand
	Of maidens and servants and vassals.

O no! she lives not in palace or castle;
	Her few honors are scatterd I ween;
She is one of the humblest children of God,
	Yet her name she'd not change with a queen.

Her people are lowly despised of all nations!
	And the Savior Himself we are told,
Was mocked and derided and nailed to a tree,
	For gathering the sheep to the Fold.

Her Station is humble, but her destiny's grand;
	If she walks in the pathway of duty,
No palace, or castle in the balmiest land,
	Shall equal her haven of beauty.

She lives in a land reserved throughout ages,
	For a people that God could rely on;
To establish His kingdom and battle for truth;
	And He named it the land of Zion.

And there you will find on its fine lofty peaks,
	An ensign unfurled to each nation;
Inviting all people to come and join hands,
	And help in the work of salvation. 

And the land shall be choice, above all other lands;
	When Jesus shall come in His glory
There'll be nothing therein to hurt or destroy
	The hills and the vales shall be holy.

Then Zion's fair daughters be watchful and prudent,
	Shun the wiles and allurements of sin;
Remember the tempter's abroad in the land,
	Endeavoring your favor to win.

Let truth be your motto and virtue your aim;
	And show by precept and example;
That you're willing to work for the kingdom of God,—
	The room for your talent is ample. 

And prove to the world you are worthy to bear,
	This fair name with which God has blessed you,
By doing His will and enduring the trials,
	With which He in wisdom will test you.
										R. M. F.


[Column One]
     [For the EXPONENT.]
        SOME OF THE BEST AUTHORS.
				III
     Mrs. Browning, another talented English 
lady, occurs next to my mind. She was a 
beautiful writer but more masculine in her 
style than the former named writers, and is al-

[Column Two]
﻿together more peculiar and individual. We
may meet “disciples'’ of Mrs. Hemans, of
Adelaide Procter, of Byron, Moore, Shake-
speare or almost any one else but it would be
hard to find an imitator of Elizabeth Barrett
Browning. “Aurora Leigh” is considered her
finest poem as it is also her lengthiest. It is in-
deed beautiful in many of its parts and then
again so abstract as to be hard to understand.
She deals with the philosophy of human life in
a masterly manner and is a grand example of
the reasoning power of woman’s mind coupled
with the fine feeling and tender affection of the
feminine heart.
     “Lady Geraldine’s Courtship” is a beautiful
poem. “Mother and Poet,” “The Cry of the
Human,” “Romance of the Swan’s Nest,” “The
Cry of the Children,” “He Giveth His Beloved
Sleep,” are well known in this country. “The
Four-fold Aspect,” “The Death of Felicia
Hemans,” “The Lost Bower,” “A Drama of
Exile,” “The Virgin Mary to the Child Jesus,”
“The Poet and the Bird,” “The Child Asleep”
and many others are very beautiful. Mrs.
Browning was born in London 1809, and died
at Florence in 1861. She was the wife of the
celebrated poet Robert Browning. The fol-
lowing is an extract from “The Four-fold
Aspect:”

Pray, pray thou who also weepest,
	And the drops will slacken so;
Weep, weep; and the watch thou keepest
	With a quicker count will go.

Think: the shadow on the dial
	For the nature most undone, 
Marks the passing of the trial,
	Proves the presence of the sun:

Look, look up in starry passion,
	To the throne above the Spheres,—
Learn: the spirit's gravitation
	Still must differ from the tear’s.

Hope: with all the strength thou usest
	In embracing thy despair:
Love: the earthly love thou losest
	Shall return to thee more fair.

Work: make clear the forest-tangles
	Of the wildest stranger-land:	
Trust: the blessed deathly angels
	Whisper, “Sabbath hours at hand!”

By the heart's wound when most gory,
	By the longest agony,
Smile!—Behold in sudden glory
	The TRANSFIGURED smiles on thee!

     And ye lifted up your head, and it seemed
as if He said:

"My Beloved, is it so?
Have ye tasted of my woe?		
Of my heaven ye shall not fail!—
He stands brightly where the shade is,
With the keys of Death and Hades,
And there ends the mournful tale:—
So hopefully ye think upon the Dead. 
The Best Thing in the World.
What,s the best thing in the world?
June-rose by May-dew impearled;
Sweet south-wind that means no rain;
Truth, not cruel to a friend;.
Pleasure not in haste to end;
Beauty not self-decked and carted
Till its pride is over-plain; 
Light that never makes you wink;
Memory, that gives no pain;
Love, when, so, you’re loved again.
What’s the best, thing in the world?
—Something out of it I think.
					BIRDIE CLYDE


THE HOME OF CHILDHOOD. 

	"How dear to this heart are the scenes of my childhood 
	   When fond recollection presents them to view
	The orchard, the meadow, the deep tangled wildwood.  
	   And every loved spot that my infancy knew."  

	How true are these words of the poet, 
Wordsworth.  Many can testify that no place
was ever so dear as the home of childhood.  
How eminently proper that the home should 
be the seat of contentment, of affection and of 
true happiness, such as will purify and elevate 
the attributes, and through  these the after life
of the child, nurtured within its walls.  Home 
should ever be shadowed by the wings of love.  
Peace should be the good angel that stands at 
the right hand of the goddess who presides at 
the homestead.  No matter how plain, how 
simple its appointments, if order and harmony 
exist, there is a charm like a talisman that 
abides forever after, with the man or woman, 
and is like a beacon on the golden hills that 
loom up in the distance, and blend with the 
azure of the heavens illuminating the horizon, 
and radiating to the extreme point, causing 
all between to be tinged with the roseate hue 
thus reflected from one point to the other.  

		"Our early days—how often back 
		We turn on life's bewildering track 
		To where, o'er hill and valley plays 
		The sunlight of our early days." 

	No matter how insignificant the fact may 
seem, it is nevertheless a tangible one that a 
happy disposition, a cheerful temperament, in-
stinctively impress others, without any volition 
or will force.  Then how essential that home 
should be filled with an atmosphere of cheer-
fulness.  Not that excess of boisterous mirth 
that always lapses into the very opposite on 
natural principles, but preserve a degree of 
good nature, calm, placid and serene that will 
modify any inequality or incompatibility of 
temper, and restrain the over-abundant force 
of those inclined to recklessness or disobedience.  
There are so many phases of human character 
that need guiding and governing in the home, 
that no one, be he sage or philosopher, can 
mark out the regular routine of action to be 
pursued.  The Bible says each one after his 
kind, but we all know, who have studied 
character, that each individual that comes 
into the world, has some distinct originality 
that distinguishes him from the others; con-
sequently, we see how difficult it is to deal 
justly with all, if we judge from our own 
standard, and must recognize the propriety of 
the Savior's words, "judge not, that ye be not 
judged."  How complicated and magnificent
seems the work of the Creator in making this 
diversity, this variety in the human soul.  It 
is almost beyond our comprehension.  We 
only know such is the case, but we know not 
why, nor how these things are so.  
	But lest I grow abstrusely metaphysical, 
and get far beyond my depth, I will leave 
these mathematical problems and geometrical 
truths, and go back to the home of childhood.  
Ah, me, if we but had better homes all over 
the world, and fewer places of public amuse-
ment and recreation, it seems to me the genera-
tion might be benefited.  However, as I am 
neither prince, potentate, no, nor even a mem-
ber of the legislature, or of an assembly of 
any kind, I have no power to help establish 
laws that would ultimately result in the more 
happy conditions of home life; therefore, I


[Column One]
can only use an influence with my pen, for the
awakening of thought on the subject of homes,
and the moral and spiritual effect of their
surroundings and associations. I know it is a
proverb that “home is home, be it ever so
homely;” but it will bear much qualifying.
The spot we call home may be unattractive in
many respects, but there must be something
that hallows it, or we could not cherish it in
our heart of hearts as the dearest place of all.
Youth is beauty in one sense, and pleasures
are greatly enhanced by the very vigor and
charm that hangs like a crown of glory over
the heads of the young, and reflects its bright-
ness on every object. It is the same in every
land and clime, and among all civilized na-
tions of the earth, whether we go to Italy or
Arabia, home is home, and the more refined
and sensitive the individual, the more delicately
and elaborately are the affections interwoven
with the external objects that are in and around
the home itself. It may be the lilac bush, a
rose tree or a honey-suckle, or all these and
more, but imperceptibly to those around us
forever lingers the memories that can never
die, of the places and attractions of one’s
childhood hours. One of the sweetest of poets
(and poets know how to read the heart pretty
well) writes of the home of his childhood. 

"I've wandered on thro' many a clime where flowers
	of beauty grew,
Where all was blissful to the heart and lovely to the
	view—
I’ve seen them in their twilight pride, and in their
	dress of morn,
But none appeared so sweet to me as the spot where
	I was born."

     The heart clings so affectionately to the ob-
jects that have entwined themselves around its
tendrils in early life, that no after attachments
of the same nature ever take so firm a hold.
First impressions are always strongest, they lay
the foundation for all future life, and should
be as perfect as possible.
     The sort of Bohemian life many well-to-do
people live nowadays is injurious in the ex
treme to children. Living in lodgings, in
hotels, here and there, with no settled home
and no place the child can ever look back to as
a true home, is a great mistake. It may do
for those who have no family. If that class
of people like to be unsettled, and free from
care and responsibility, there is only them-
selves to be considered, but when children are
born to them, the subject becomes serious. By
all means, if parents would raise a family of
good, obedient children, and expect to have
them grow up useful members of society, good
citizens, and an honor to their country and
their God, then let them see to it that the
home of their childhood is neat, cheerful,
beautiful, and orderly as possible. Let no
contention or quarreling be countenanced, and
let the regulations of the home life be such as
will conduce to the well-being of all the in-
mates. Industry is one essential principle.
Each child should do some regular work daily,
and all be so carefully arranged that no one
need feel his burden heavier than it should be.
Labor is not degrading, but elevating, when it
is well done; the silly idea that domestic occu-
pations are menial should be discarded, among
us as a people certainly. To be able to do all
that is necessary in the way of housekeeping,
not omitting any detail, from the cellar to
the garret, is almost indispensable in the edu-
cation of one who expects to be a wife and a
mother. These are the women whose homes
are desirable places of restfulness. The new-
fangled notion of boarding is an egregious
error; if we would have our children grow up
under proper influences. 
     In these respects Utah is pursuing the prop-
er methods. I am aware it is said that “in
Utah there are no homes,” but in the face of

[Column Two]
all that has been said or written on the subject,
I am bold to assert that the Territory of Utah
abounds in happy homes. Homes where
prayer and praise ascend, homes where peace
and content pervade the atmosphere; homes
where all that is purest and best is taught, and
principles of right instilled and engrafted into
the hearts of the little ones so firmly that
nothing can ever erase wholly from the soul.
Traverse this Territory over and see the happy
homes. Humble and lowly they may be, but,
morning and evening, the hymn of gratitude
and prayer of thanksgiving to God is offered
up. Listen to the daily teachings; they are
such as will tend to elevate human character,
and to make genuine men and women, true to
themselves, to their own convictions, to the
Constitution of the United States, and the
principles of liberty that are dearer to the
heart of an American than anything else on
earth. What is life without freedom? It is
out of such homes a race of men and women
will grow up that America will yet be proud
to claim.
     And again we may say that the home of
one’s childhood is where the first seeds of good
or evil are sown that eventually bring forth
fruit, sweet or bitter, as the case may be. O
how grandly essential, then, that these homes,
these nurseries of the human soul, should be
of that character that will give healthy tone
to the living elements embodied in the soul,
and impress them with the genius of nobility,
honor, and true heroism! Our young mothers
should take into consideration everything that
will tend to refine and ennoble the generations
yet unborn. Beautify and adorn the home
outside and inside, but first of all get a per-
manent home. Ancestral halls are famed in
history. Why may this generation not plant
them. Our people are the “old settlers.”
They made the country what it is, planted
the trees and embellished the places with
shrubbery, vines and flowers. They are
building Temples, and structures that will re-
main for generations to come. Then why not
beautiful homes? Homes that the children of
to-day can look back upon with as much love,
as great pride and enthusiasm, and as much
attachment to, as do any of the people in
older countries who cherish the tender senti-
ment of “home sweet home.”
     The way in which this city was laid out is a
self-evident fact that Brigham Young’s idea
of homes for the people was a correct one.
Each lot had sufficient room for a little garden,
where trees, and flowers, and shrubbery might
be cultivated as well as vegetables for table
use. I well remember how much more home-
like the city looked while the gardens re-
mained. But though all may not have gardens,
the home may be made attractive in various
other ways. A few pictures, a little pains
taken to make the furniture look bright and
new, and above everything else rooms kept
neat and tidy. Plenty of sunshine and fresh
air make the house wholesome and the in-
mates better natured. Let the children enjoy
the parlor as well as the grown people.
Never shut the children out from any place
because it is too good for them; they will be
more refined and cultivated if they are taught
how to handle things that are valuable and
pretty, than if they are always denied the
pleasure. Childhood’s hours pass quickly
enough and the cares and perplexities of
life bring about many changes in one’s feelings
and circumstances, therefore it seems wise and
prudent to fortify our children by a generous
supply of good nature and help them to
cultivate all the higher and nobler attributes
of the mind.
		"Gather the rosebuds while ye may,
		   Old time is still a-flying.
		And that same flower that blooms to-day
		   To-morrow shall be dying."


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE. 
EDITOR EXPONENT. 
	The quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of Cassia Stake was held at Cassia,
March 22d, 1889.  Present on the stand Pre-
sident Louisa Haight and Counselor Elizabeth
Tuttle; presidents of the different branch or-
ganizations, also of the Stake presidency Bro.
H. D. Haight and Counselor Moroni Pickett,
and Robert Wilson, patriarch.
	Conference opened by singing and prayer.
Statistical and financial reports were read,
showing the branches to be in fair condition,
also each president verbally reported, that the
sisters were striving to do their best.
	President Louisa Haight said: “the sisters
have their own salvation to work out and
should have opportunities of performing their
duties.”
	Bishop Taylor of Elba, spoke at some
length on the training of children.
	Counselor Elizabeth Tuttle bore her testi-
mony, and made a few remarks.
	During the afternoon session the conference
was addressed by Brother Moroni Pickett who
spoke of kindness and love in training our
children, and various other interesting subjects.
	Sister Durfee, President of primary at Almo,
advised the young people to make the best of
their opportunities.
	Sister Janet Whittle bore her testimony.
	Sister Annie Bird spoke of the way in which
women everywhere are coming to the front.
“It is a noble thing to be a mother in Israel;
we should esteem the name Latter-day Saint.”
	Brother Robert Wilson spoke at some length
said “a sister with the desire of God in her
heart is a helpmeet indeed; sisters can do
much by prompting their husbands in their
duties, husbands should also prompt their
wives.  Mothers need advancement, for they
have the care and training of the young
children from their infancy."
	Brother Orson Bates spoke upon the burdens
of wifehood, and how a considerate husband
may lighten the same; said if children see no
mean actions they would know none.
	Sister Adelaide Brim of Albion, said a kind
word to the sick was easy to give and was
often the greatest help.  "We should appreci-
ate the privilege of meeting together while we
have it.
	President H. D. Haight spoke upon hus-
bands acknowledging the equality, and consid-
ering the wishes of their wives.
	Closing remarks by President L. Haight.
Adjourned to meet at Elba in three months.
			   LOUISA PICKETT, Secretary.


Mrs. Frances Hodgson Burnett is said to be
dramatizing her story of “Little St. Elizabeth.”

	There are sixty women among the 16,000
dentists of the United States.

	Jean Ingelow writes in her conservatory
with flowers to the right and flowers to the
left.

	In Detroit, 2,700 women registered to vote
for school directors, and they have elected a
woman to the school board.

	The California Legislature has passed a bill
permitting women to vote for school trustees.
A bill giving full municipal suffrage to women
was defeated in the Senate by a close vote, 15
to 18.

	In British Columbia, where single women
and widows have had municipal suffrage for
many years, a proposition was lately brought
before the local Parliament to make them
eligible to municipal offices. It was defeated
by one vote—6 to 5.


WOMAN’S	EXPONENT.


YEARNINGS.
BY MARY F. SCHUYLER.

If from the fickle hand of fate ’twere mine
To choose a rare and priceless gift, ’twould be
The voice of poetry, whose sweetest strains
Are not the work of skillful hands alone;
Like those of some grand instrument, which keeps
Its purest tones within its gorgeous shell
To charm the favored few.

					Oh, I would sing 
A tender, soothing strain to each sad heart,
Speak words of consolation through my pen— 
Words that will live, cheer, comfort, and sustain
Those to whom sorrow brings no recompense.
Though often radiant Hope comes very near,
Then spreads her snowy wings and soars away
To gladden hearts that seldom know a care.

I would not sing in that majestic strain
Which grandly soars above the common heights,
But I would keep that low, sweet monotone
With which the mother soothes her weary child;
Write words of sympathy that move the heart
To glad responses—make its tendrils reach
Out toward human loves and human joys,
Widen the life that has grown cramped and stern
From constant sorrow.

					This	is all I crave:
To live in other hearts through kindly words
Written or spoken for another’s need;
To know that I have lightened others cares,
Cleared pathways through life’s sharp and piercing thorns
For young and tender feet; steered some frail bark
Around the hidden shoals that would have wrecked
Its dainty life. What higher fame than this?
Each day, each hour my heart appeals to me:
"Write! work for others; let thine helpful words
Run like a golden thread through tarnished lives;
Start in the burdened heart this glad refrain:
'Go sin no more, the Master loveth thee.”
								Chicago Ledger.


[Column One]
AUNT POLLY'S LETTER.

	DEAR AUNT POLLY:
	It seems friendly and easy to sit down and
chat with you a while, but if I were asked to
sit down and write a piece for our EXPONENT I
fear I should not feel  to steal the necessary
time to think and write one; so if Aunt Em
finds enough in this semi-personal letter to
save it from the waste basket fate, you shall
hear now a few of our pilikias.
	"Going home!" Joyful words with a sweet
mellow sound filled with the odors of apples and
plums, tinged brightly with the blush of apple-
blossoms and after-time autumn leaves, and
echoing faintly with the voices of far away
and long absent friends, what words of melody
they are: Going home.
	Meanwhile, you Aunt Polly can guess what
is going on at this end of the line. Shirts,
skirts, pants and panteletts for four dear little
pairs of legs, garments, socks, and paluli’s for
the pater families, (by-the-by I have made
four white paluli’s for my husband this fall),
besides a dress and sundries for mamma and
grandma.
	Grandma tends the two babies, does the
front room work, and sews all day, all day.
Mamma and Lule divide up the kitchen as best
they may, mamma hurrying to sew, sew, sew,
that the work of four weeks may be crowded
into two. Baby’s advent this winter prevented
any sewing being done until the last little
while. You can imagine how a great part of
the winter has been spent—counting the
months; six, five, four, three, then weeks, and
now even the days are numbered and measured.
Can you enter in our busy homes and hear
the half sad, half merry clatter about ways
and means, where we shall stop, and when we
shall arrive. And then the last hours—the
last time at the mill, at the sea, at the meeting-
house, at Laie—and we are gone.

[Column Two]
	Ferns are to be cared for and obtained;
mosses to be dried and pressed; our few com-
mon shells cleaned and prepared. What a
tedious weary job this pressing, drying, and
preserving is, is it not? Only we who have
tried it know anything about it. You know
our friends at home (we have often said here
to one another) think it such a simple matter;
you walk upon the seashore and gather in
your apron all the shells and mosses and coral
you care to, and come home and pack them
up; or you step out your back door and gather
from the surrounding rocks and trees any sort
of ferns or moss you may like or desire.
Shall I repeat the real facts in this to you who
know them so well? No, unnecessary it would
be. So we will leave the society vague, delici-
ously uncertain veil of romantic fancy over
the mystic scene which the words "Sandwich
Islands" calls to every eye, and only when
alone together shall we compare experiences,
and exchange ideas about our Hawiian
Mission.
	I long ardently to see my children, friends
and home again, and yet to know that within
another week I shall have bid good-bye forever
to Laie with its cool sea breezes, its grassy
slopes, and above all, the ever restless, lovely
sea, whose brow, now calm and jewel-crowned,
anon furrowed with grey and sullen foam-
tipped billows—it makes me feel sad, or as the
natives call it kaumaha.
	One grows to love the place, and feel a love
for these poor dark benighted people, dreading
to leave them forever.
	Aunt Polly, I hope to see you with many
in Zion, till then, farewell.
						HOMESPUN.
	P. S.	We are just starting to the sea for
one of our last sea baths, oh, that we could
take the sea home with us. Don't you wish
you were going along? Can you swim?
								H.


[Column One]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

		    MALAD STAKE.
	The Relief Society of this Stake of Zion
was organized in a stake capacity on the 16,
of June 1888. Officers as follows: Lucinda
Hoskins, President, Mary Stewart and Eliza-
beth Zundell, Counselors, Eliza A. Hall,
Secretary. We hold our conferences quarterly
and change the place of meeting, sometimes
holding conference in Malad City and some-
times in Portage.
	August 17, 1888, we held a Relief Society
conference in Portage. Present on the stand
Stake officers, President Oliver G. Hoskins,
Counselors Abraham Zundell and William H.
Gibbs; also the Stake officers of the Relief
Society, Mrs. Lucinda Hoskins presiding.
Meeting opened by singing “Glorious things
of Thee are spoken.” Prayer by Brother
Jesse Dredge, singing “Great is the Lord.”
Reports as follows: Malad, President Annie
Sawyer; Samaria, President Mary D. Davis;
Portage, President Jane Harris; St. John,
President Elvira Harrison. President O. G.
Hoskins addressed  the meeting; exhorted the
sisters to live their religion, and be true to
their integrity, attending to all their duties,
and gave good advice on several different sub-
jects.
	President Lucinda Hoskins made a few
closing remarks: urged the sisters to diligence
in looking after the poor, and advised them
to be humble and prayerful at all times.
After singing, beuediction was pronouneed by
Brother William Johns. Conference adjourned
for three months.
			   ELIZA A. HALL, Secretary.

		 ST. JOHN'S STAKE.
The conference of the Relief Society of this

[Column Two]
Stake was held at St. John’s March 8th, 1889,
commencing at 10 a.m., and occupying two
hours. There were present on the stand Prest.
E. L. S. Udall and her first counselor Frances
White, the second counselor being detained at
home on occount of sickness, President David
K. Udall and other leading brethren and
sisters. The attendance was good, President
Udall presiding. The congregation sang
“Come let us anew our journey pursue,”
prayer was offered by Bishop Willard Farr,
continued with singing; the reports were read,
officers presented and unanimously sustained
by the assembly, after which President Udall
made some opening remarks on the duties of
the sisters expressing joy at the privilege of
meeting with them. Sister Mary E. Freeman,
president of the Y. L. M. I. A. of the Stake
gave a very interesting address on “woman’s
mission” showing the necessity of becoming
intelligent, economizing time and having order
in everything etc. Presidents Ellen Greer,
Phebe A. McNeil and Emma B. Coleman re-
orted briefly the condition of the Relief
Society in their respective wards as prosperous
and spoke of the necessity of studying the
laws of health; training of children; thought
that example was better than precept. “They
should be trained up free from the traditions
of the world that they may be shining lights
in the kingdom of God.” President E. L. S.
Udall read from the WOMAN'S EXPONENT “A
New Years Address” by President Zina D. H.
Young, and afterwards referred to it in an in-
teresting manner. Counselor E. N. Freeman
thought the remarks made this morning
equally applicable to man and woman, said to
him they were very interesting. Spoke in an
impressive manner on order and systematizing
our labors; said that the key to success is a
place for everything and everything in its
place.
	President David Udall endorsed the remarks
of former speakers, and felt in his heart to
say God bless the sisters. Spoke in his usual
earnest impressive manner on various subjects
of interest among which was the necessity of
using more graham flour, it being in his opinion
essential to good health. Urged the sisters to
encourage their husbands in the planting of
shade and fruit trees. Conference was then
adjourned for six months, the congregation
sang “The Spirit of God like a fire is burning”
benediction by patriarch James Richey.
		      MARY E. B. FARR Secretary.


NOTES AND NEWS.

     Missouri has just granted school suffrage to
women.
     The Arkansas Legislature has voted to
admit girls to the State University.
     Marietta Holley, "Josiah Allen's wife," has 
another  book ready for the press.
     Grand celebration in New York yesterday
April 30, anniversary of the inauguration one
hundred years ago.
     Mrs. Elizabeth Stuart Phelps-Ward, with
her husband,, Dr. Ward, is at her old home 
in Andover on a visit to her father.  Her
winter at the South has greatly improved her
health.
     A reception was given at the Kindergarten
for the Blind, Jamaica Plains, Mass., April 9.
Addresses were made by Rev. Phillips Brooks,
Hon. Leverett Saltonstall, and Rev. George A.
Gordon.
     Ramabai has opened her school.  By the
counsel of her advisory board in India, it has
been established in the Back Bay district of
Bombay instead of at Poonah.  Her reception
among her own people has thus far been cordial
and encouraging. EX.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms: 
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine. 
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday. 
Address all business communications to 
PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.
SALT LAKE CITY,						MAY 1, 1889.


ORGAN RECITAL.

	A grand free musical entertainment of a very
high order was given in the large Tabernacle in
this city on the evening of Monday April 15th, for
which careful preparation had been previously
made.  Bishop W. B. Preston presided, and
Bishop O. F. Whitney offered the opening prayer.
Prof. Daynes opened with a solo on the great 
organ, and rendered in his very best style, the
"Pilgrims Song of Hope."  Moroni J. Thomas
sang "Nazareth" (bass solo,) Prof. Radcliffe gave
with thrilling effect "Bach's Tocata and Fague,"
and supplemented it with Batiste's grand offertoire.
The great organ never poured forth more soul
stirring and sympathetic notes than on this mo-
mentous occasion when ten thousand people were
intently listening spell-bound, as it were, under 
the tremor of its most powerful and charming
symphony. Prof. Kent on the clarionette and Prof.
Radcliffe on the organ performed with almost
magic skill and in delightful harmony a larghetto
from Mozart's Quintette which was highly appre-
ciated.  Prof. Daynes then gave "William Tell"
which elicited for him vociferous storms of ap-
plause. Willard Weihe the favorite violinist of
Utah, next came forward and gave a cavatina by
Raff, and his instrument gave expression and re-
sponse to the most sensitive and exalted feelings
of the human soul; after repeated tempests of ap-
plause he gave as an encore "Away down upon
the Swanee River," the audience were almost wild
with enthusiasm, Prof. Radcliffe gave in his lofty
style of rendering Weber's overture to Des Freis-
chutz."  This closed the first part of the programme.
The second part was as grand in style and as suc-
cessful in rendition as the first and after a couple
of organ solos and Beech's Triumphal March,
there was a vocal quartette by Messrs. Easton,
Whitney, Goddard and Spencer, the song was
that tender and beautiful one "When the swallows
homeward fly," the gentlemen were so enthusias-
tically applauded, that they could not resist and
sang as an encore "Soldiers farewell,"  in the
same exquisite voice and manner.  Afterwards
followed instrumental solos from Prof. Radcliffe 
and Minor and Costa's sublime march of triumph
"Naaman," then Prof.  Kent accompanied by
Weihe's orchestra, again thrilled the immense
audience with their divine melody; Miss Bessie
Dean warmly welcomed, sang in her exquisitely
happy style an air from Rossini's "Stabat Mater."
Prof. Radcliffe rendered the aria "Evening Star"
from Tanhauser and also "Wely's March."  The
closing part by the Tabernacle Choir organ and
orchestra was a most sublime effort suited to such 
an occasion, Handel's Hallelujah Chorus from
the oratorio of the Messiah.  Apostle H. J. Grant
pronounced the benediction and the large and at-
tentive congregation who had intently listened for
more than three hours was dismissed.  The pub-


lic are certainly greatly indebted for a very fine 
musical treat, to the Tabernacle Choir and the 
committee of arrangements Messrs.  E. Beesley,
J. J, Daynes, and C, R. Savage.  The concert was
repeated on Friday evening as a sort of ovation to
the Denver excursionists on their visit to this
city.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.
	We have given considerable space to the
speeches made at the Woman Suffrage Meeting
in the Assembly Hall in this City on the 11th, of
April, as it was a meeting of considerable import-
ance; the other speeches by Dr. Hughes, Mrs.
Stanford, Hon. C. W. Penrose, Pres. Geo. Q.
Cannon, and Mrs. Nellie Webber, will be given in
full as reported, in our next issue.
	Mrs. Susie Y. Gates, "Homespun," is on her
way home from the Sandwich Islands whither she
accompanied her husband, Elder Jacob Gates
Jun., three years ago or more, when he was called
to labor there as a Missionary.  Her husband and
her mother Mrs. Lucy B. Young, are also return-
ing home.  They are crossing in a sailing vessel a
new experience for Homespun, of which we shall
doubtless hear an interesting recital after her ar-
rival.
	"SENTIMENTS" from Mrs. Farnsworth President
of the Beaver County W. S. A., published in our
editorial columns, should have been read at the
Suffrage meeting on the 11th, but the time was
fully occupied in speeches from those present,
consequently the address was handed to the edi-
tor that it might have publicity through the paper,
as it certainly deserves on its merits; Mrs. Farns-
worth has taken hold of the work with energy, and
has manifested ability and efficiency worthy of
commendation, as also has Mrs. C. E. Bean Presi-
dent of Sevier County W. S. A.
	The safe passage across the briny deep of the
seven hundred passengers and crew of the ill-
fated Danmark is a cause for universal rejoicing 
and thanksgiving to our Father in heaven by all
who feel for others' woes. The Lord was mind-
ful of them in their calamity, and they must as-
suredly look upon it as little less than a miracle
that they were preserved from a watery grave, by
the timely arrival of the good ship Missouri, and
its noble hearted Commander, who so quickly re-
sponded to their necessities and made all speed
for port that none should perish.
	Thursday, the 18th of April, the Primary
Association of the Eighteenth Ward was reorgan-
ized; Bishop O. F. Whitney and his counselors 
Robert Patrick and William Barton officia-
ting in company with some of the
sisters who had been invited to assist.
Vilate C. Young was appointed President, and
Cornelia H. Clayton and Lavinia Morris, Coun-
selors; Fannie Young, Secretary, and Gertie
Young, assistant secretary, and Chariton Jacobs,
Jr., treasurer.  The names of 115 members were
enrolled. The bishop and his counselors blessed
and set apart the President and her Counselors.
Suitable remarks were made by Sisters E. C.
Clawson, C. C. Cobb, L. A. Wells, M. I. Horne,
and E. B. Wells.
	We announce with much pleasure the visit of
Mrs. Fannie B. Warde the charming newspaper
correspondent and traveler and her daughter to
this city.  Mrs. Warde is gentle and fascinating
in manner and is an easy and versatile conversa-
tionalist.  She visited the City ten or twelve years
ago at which time she met Gen. H. S. Eldredge
and others who showed her some courtesy of
which she has cherished a pleasing remembrance.
Mrs. Warde seems entirely free from prejudice 
on the Mormon question, and manifests consider-
able interest in the subject as touching the condi-
tion of women under the enforcement of the Ed-
[Column 2]
mund's Law.  It is refreshing in view of the mis
representations so widely circulated against Mor-
mon women, to find now and then one who is
willing to believe the facts as they exist, and
listen to the recital of their side of the story from
their own standpoint. We heartily wish Mrs.
Warde a pleasant journey home and success in
her literary work; she is about to bring out two
new books on Mexico, and knowing something of
her talents as a writer, we have no doubt they will
prove beneficial to the public, and we trust also a
financial benefit to the author.
	Mrs. Mary A. Livermore of Boston, paid a fly-
ing visit to Salt Lake recently, coming with the 
Raymond excursion from the West and arriving
here on Saturday morning, April 20th.  On Sun-
day evening April 21st, Mrs. Livermore delivered
an Easter sermon entitled "Has the Night of
Death no Morning."  The subject being a suit-
able one for Easter Sunday.  She is a magnetic
speaker, a woman of brilliant oratorical power;
fluent in language, she pours forth her thoughts
and feelings seemingly without the least effort.
In appearance she is what might appropriately be
called a magnificent woman; has a splendid
physique, a clear, far-reaching and well-modu-
lated voice.  The officers of the Utah Woman
Suffrage Association hadf decorated the stands in
the Salt Lake Assembly Hall profusely and hand-
somely with flowers, in honor of the occasion;
Mrs. Livermore being, as they are well aware,
one of the most noted public lecturers and
speakers on the American platform.
	The newspaper comments upon "the pen and 
paper fighting at Long Range" between the
distinguished writers Ella Wheeler Wilcox and
Gertrude L. Atherton is rather ridiculous, and in
view of the literary reputation of the two ladies
unfortunate if not lamentable.  Women of more
than ordinary minds and attainments should be
above differing on the subject of personal at-
tractions.  Mrs. A. writes: "Ella Wheeler Wilcox
is a little mouse colored woman who needs con-
spicuous dress to be noticed.  Her only good
feature is a sensitive mouth.  She is very thin 
and in a dim light looks quite young."  Mrs. W. 
replies in defiance: "Had I revealed myself as
freely in full dress when you called, as you re-
vealed yourself when I called, your meager
charms of body might have been abashed before
my more generous ones, and my mouse-colored
tints as you must know could easily become a 
lovely golden, by calling in the aid of a hair
bleacher.  The day I last saw you in the cruel
light of the stationer's shop in your morning attire
I noticed with surprise that your former delicate
complextion looked sallow and shriveled.  It gave
me an absolute pang of "regret." Is it not ridicu-
lous thus to fling at each other, in view of the
sentiments advocated in their writings?  It would
be far more fitting to "regret" such littleness as the
sparring of these two, than the complexion or its
comments.


SENTIMENTS.
	Addressed to the Ladies of S. L. City:
   Esteemed Sisters: For we are sisters in the
common cause which increases thought, broadens
and illuminates feeling, in the souls of true, brave,
liberal womanhood, in this great Latter Day Work
termed Woman’s Suffrage. In the creating and
establishing of woman’s claims, natural and law-
ful, in the developing of her qualifications as a
capable, responsible being, every lady who has
this object at heart, we regard as sisters in very
deed!
	I should have been most happy if I could have
been present on this occasion, but circumstances
unavoidable prevented my doing so, still, my good
wishes and sincere desires are for the success and
ultimate victory of our cause. Beaver County has


[Column 1]
a band of earnest, sympathetic co-laborers, whom
we trust may prove worthy of identification with
those of other counties in connection with the
Metropolitan at Salt Lake City. We do not
simply wish to hold the name and possess the title
of a branch association, but will aim to live and
work as a competent, efficient auxiliary to our
Utah's body whole. Our Territory possesses a
broad field in which we all may labor—advance
and become successful if we so desire.	
	This new phase in the duties of some of our
ladies seems strange, almost impracticable, yet,
this will soon pass away, ere long it will become
just as natural and proper to see them acting in a
political cause as an educational, social, or do-
mestic one. God has a mighty mission in reserve
for woman, I regard this as the beginning of a new
era. A broader, a more enlightened day has
dawned. Mothers will now have opportunity to
enlarge intellectual sight, to improve mental abil-
ity, to cultivate and encourage substantial origin-
ality, increase the study of history, philosophy,
science and politics, instead of devoting so much
time to romance, fashion and the demand which
society in all circles now-a-days clamors for in-
cessantly. Woman when placed in a position will
have to from necessity, fill it with credit and dig-
nity, or else stand in the back-ground while her
friends proceed. Nothing is more requisite in the
organization of women than energy, self-reliance,
integrity and perseverance. 
	Good reading is cheap and abundant. If we 
systematize our home duties; have good execu-
tive ability as mothers and house-keepers; teach
our domestics order, tidiness, and promptness, in
habits and work, we ourselves being practical as
well as theoretical women, properly instruct our
children, having them trained to their various
duties, etc., there is no reason why wives and
mothers cannot advance in the scale of intelli-
gence, in the science of civil government along
with their husbands. The obligations which
citizens owe their country every lady should un-
derstand before she takes upon herself the sacred
relationship of wife. Well informed women have
read (or should read) and appreciate the Declara-
tion of American Independence, the Constitution
of the great Republic of the United States. The
principles are pure, noble, broad and grandly
demonstrated in these Heaven-inspired Docu-
ments.
	"Napoleon once asked Madame De Stael what
he could do to most promote the happiness of
France. Her reply is full of political wisdom,
she said: 'Educate and instruct the mothers of
the French people, for mothers are indeed the 
affectionate and effective teachers of the human
race." 
	The homes of a country are the strength of a
nation. The morals, manners, temperance and
conduct of children are as much, if not more, un-
der the influence, discipline and guidance of
mothers as fathers, at least from babyhood until
man or womanhood is attained, therefore the
natural rights of woman require enfranchisement,
if from no other standpoint it is necessary;
mothers cannot teach their children what they
themselves do not know! Politics if utilized
properly would mutually benefit men and women.
Intelligence is power; wilful ignorance, certain
debasement and degeneracy.
	We are proud of our Utah, for she has proven
herself a pioneer in very deed! not only in the
Woman's Suffrage movement but in many others.
She laid the first connecting link between the
Great East and Far West, made travel safe and
emigration sure. I feel akin to her soil, hav-
ing been born at Lehi on the border of Utah Lake,
which point of land, (my birthplace) is now sub-
merged in water. We her citizens, her daughters,
yet hope to show to the world our integrity of
heart, our strength of character; the very ele-
ments of our Territory are beneficial to this end.

[Column 2]
The majestic mountains, high promontories, grand
wild scenery, broad prairies, rich grain and graz-
ing fields, great lakes, beautiful rivers, luxuriant
groves and forests, vast mineral resources, ele-
gant, commodious, and well-appointed homes,
public and private edifices for schools and other
purposes, are all stimulants to woman and indica-
tive of elevation in thought, life, and character.
As was the case in former days of Switzerland
with her brave citizens, who were partakers of
that spirit which in high altitudes is so natural;
they longed for freedom and the right to govern
themselves, which privilege they permanently
gained at the sacrifice of life, property, and after
patient suffering and waiting.
	In reading history, ancient and modern, by 
studying the walks, reputations, and principles of
great,good men, we find they can never be traced
to mothers who were wicked or of inferior endow-
ments, and the reverse in cases like Herod, Nero,
and many others. Phrenology teaches us that
children as a rule inherit their strength from their
fathers, and their intellects from their mothers.
Allowing this to be true, then ladies, how vitally
important that mothers should be not only good
in principle, noble at heart, but brilliant in under-
standing, intelligent in gaining knowledge, and
wise as students in learning the laws of social and
civil government.
	In our free God given America, where for a
hundred and thirteen years has been provided a
home for the oppressed of all nations, and an
asylum for the fugitives of every clime; a land
made holy from having been cemented by the
blood of many noble martyrs, fallen heroes, dear
to the hearts of her countrymen, over which our
flag the emblem of American patriotism still
waves! A great Republic formed of states and
territories whose loyal citizens reverence and de-
fend! A government (which is superior to any
on earth) sacredly enshrined in the breasts of
every freeborn son and daughter; yet this govern-
ment denies woman the right of franchise!
	Ladies, let us work, pray, and live with a motive
in view; study, advance, and protest to regain our
liberties, to re-establish ourselves; unite heart,
voice and influence with those of our sister states
and territories, in petitioning Congress for redress
for free and universal suffrage.
				Sincerely,
						J. P. M. FARNSWORTH.
	Beaver City, Utah, April 2nd, 1889.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WHITE APRON.

[Column 1]
	It is very pretty, more than that—artistic often—
no matter which way it is made out of the endless
variety of styles, and is certainly a great favorite,
but every time I look at a new one, I think a few
thoughts.
	Wherefore all these tucks and trimmings that
require such careful laundrying?	These cost
several times more than the apron itself.  O! you
made those lovely crochet, novelty braid, point
lace, and ric rac laces yourself ? Very creditable
to your artistic tastes, ingenuity and industry to
be sure, but for common every day afternoon
wear, quite an expensive luxury after all. Who
was doing the many different portions of house-
work, sewing, mending, etc., while the daughter's
pretty fingers plied so busily among the intricacies
of that pattern?  I know that apron required
several days labor in the making, and you have a
variety of pretty aprons not to be out matched by
the other girls.  That is what each girl prides
her self upon, I judge.  I know it is fascinating
work, haven't I bent for years over one kind and
another—drawn work, or Portuguse lace we call
it, then darned net lace, of which the beautiful
Oriental lace is now a cheap substitute, besides
every other kind done by needles and hooks that
I could find to learn;  and now when I want to

[Column 2]
read so many good things, my eyes say, "You
might but you wore us out long time ago, with
your thimble in hand."  Dear girls needle work
will wear out, but the treasured store of knowl-
edge gained from study or reading, is imperish-
able and is a bank account to be drawn upon all
your  future life to the full amount invested.
The question is so important yet almost simple;
if you have the time for but one investment of
your mind, which will pay you best in the end,
fancy work or knowledge  ?
	Well, if you must do a little of this fascinating
work, make something for your neck and wrists,
and so elevate your handiwork to where it will
receive its best encomiums, for it can never look
to so good advantage elsewhere.  But the prettiest
lace you ever made or can, will not qualify yon to
enter cultivated society here or hereafter, if you
cannot more than match it with the adornment of
a cultivated mind and heart.  Knowledge is the
most powerful charm and key to future advan-
tages. "But in case I have time for both indul-
gence and study?" asks Miss Fortunatus. Why,
such odds never balance evenly, one will surely
out-balance the other, and which is worth the
most?  But to look at it in another way, what can
be said so much in favor of the pretty white
apron for general wear ? If Jenny is going to
hunt eggs in the barn of what use is that pretty
white article insertioned and satin bowed ?
Who would think of gathering fruit or nuts in
such an one, and  as to picking up chips for the
kitchen fire at mother's request,  the very apron
itself says, 'I can't."  If three year Tommy falls
down, and tears and dirt com-mingle woe-fully
adown his rosy cheeks, bless him, they won't get
wiped away by that starched and decorated
article;  (aren't handkerchiefs generally missing
on such unexpected occasions?)  No white apron
ever wiped away the blood from a freshly pierced
finger in a nectar strung blackberry bush,  or
soothed the blessed toe that, disdaining a pro-
tecting shoe, happened inadvertently upon a
hidden snag in the tempting newly ploughed
ground, oh, no!  When the first butterfly, rashly
incautious, challenges pursuit, and little Annie
forgetful of parental admonitions follows breath-
lessly its zig zag course, until a currant  bush
standing squarely in the way nearly arrests her
progress, what is the consequence  ? Delicate
fabric torn diagonally and unpatchably,  the
ruined remains of lace that cannot be matched,
and dire remembrance of a sister's loving labor,
lost, lost; and the doubtfully balanced chances
of punishment or forgiveness.  Poor little girl,
a strong gingham would better have suited her
play hours.  Just now she would willingly change
places with the washwoman's children that play
all they want to, in clothes that ain't too nice.
When earliest weeds come out in fresh attire
(like servant maids that wear their best on work-
days, lest their position be recognized too readily,)
and tempt the little flori-culturists to hunt for
wild larkspurs, blue-bells and other treasures
that die as soon as transplanted, are they carried
home in the big sister's white apron ? No ma'am,
and No  sir.  Sister Jane looks down at her
lovely apron whereon  little girls in Kate Green-
away hats, and little boys with large trouser seats
and fishing  poles, are distinctly outlined in
cardinal red, and Jimmy and Johnny compre-
hending the situation instantly, proffer their hats
to hold the balls of dirt and precious plants and
go  home bare headed in a vagrant March wind
that has just come along, to complain next morn-
ing of stiff necks, and a slight lump in either
throat.
	Whoever sees carpets gathered up in a fancy
white apron, or a group of socks, stockings and
different colored balls established on the same
ground work ? They would not correspond
harmoniously with the swiss muslin insertioned
above the hem,  with embroidered butterflies


chasing each other over spaces bridged by sky
blue satin ribbon.
	These pretty aprons are well enough occasion-
ally, but show me a good old grandma, mending
for the feet she loves, and a nice blue and white
check apron holds them all, scissors every colored
yarn for all sizes, from Dan's chubby legs to
baby's fine yarn stockings.  And that apron of
grandma's is as clean as can be, and wasn't
laundried by a Chinaman, or sprinkled for the
ironing through that heathen's teeth; or in a
steam laundry with Mr. and Mrs. Everybody's
linen; and it was as ample as grandma's propor-
tions(and they try to match her heart) and I'd
like to know what better apron you could find.
It has corners large enough to bring up and cover
Benny's eyes, while he curls up in her lap to take
an afternoon dose, and he submits to grandma's
apron when he would resent a handkerchief or a
veil in the same office, as an affront.
	Then there's Mary, "a model girl," grandma
says, and Pa and Ma smile an endorsement to
this sentiment, who wears about her forenoon
work an apron like grandma's, only made to suit
the difference in figure, but how neat and sensi-
ble it looks.  Mary has others, nice enough for
just such a blessed home comfort of a girl as
she is.
	Aunt Jane wears a black silk apron that only
needs a brushing when she lays aside her sewing,
and once in a long while a sponging with some
mysterious application, and then it is as good
looking as ever.
	Aunt Jane and I are opposed to the everlasting
white apron, that is, at our age, our style of
dress, the fuss, the bother etc., etc.  We speak
plainly to each other on this vital subject,privately,
you understand, not wishing to even hint anything
openly, that might offend a single dear soul, but
we don't wear them.
			AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
	P.S.
	May inquires the meaning of obtaining goods
under false pretenses.  Aunt Jane explains and
May still looks dubious.  It comes out however
that she has been considering how Adelbert El
Roy Jones when escorting Miss Brownlon to an
ice cream saloon, always obsequiously asked her
preference for "lemon or vanilla?" with the air of
a noble Count.  It seems that lately in response to
some requirement of Mrs. A. El Roy Jones, he
amazedly and sternly inquired "haven't you got
flour and potatoes ? what more do you want ?"
May thinks this a parallell case I fear.
								A.J.C.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
WOMAN SUFFRAGE MEETING.
	The meeting of the Utah Woman Suffrage
Association at the Assembly Hall on Thursday
April 11th, was well attended, and the proceed-
ings were highly interesting.  In the absence
of the President, Mrs. Margaret T. Caine, who
was unable to attend, Mrs. Lydia D. Alder
presided, and performed the duty ably and
with becoming dignity.  A number of promi-
nent ladies occupied the stand.
	After the preliminary exercises, including
prayer by the Chaplain, Mrs. Sarah M. Kim-
ball, the minutes of the preceding meeting and
the names of the members were read by the
Secretary, Cornelia H. Clayton, and some
amendments to the by-laws and other executive
business were submitted and voted upon.  The
meeting was then addressed by
			MRS. ZINA D. H. YOUNG,
who deplored the injustice of depriving the wo-
men of Utah of the right of suffrage which they
had exercised for many years without abusing
it.  The mothers of the United States had
always been found side by side with the men in

[Column 2]
their battles for independence, justice and
right.  Who implanted within the breast of
her children the desire for a great and free
government?  The mother.  We look for the
great government of the United States to again
confer upon us the God-given right of suffrage,
because by and with it we will be enabled to do
vast good to the world.  For this we expect to
contend; we expect to reach out our hands to
the women of America, and say we are one
with you in this grand struggle.
		MRS. IDA F. GIBBS,
	I have always been an advocate of woman
suffrage, which I consider a God-given right.
Taxation and representation should always go
together.  The rights of women are eternally
paramount with those of men.  I heard a
young lady not long ago say she would attend
our meetings if they were not so dry and unin-
teresting.  She is a poor woman who will villify
her own sex.  She referred to the great and
glorious labors of the leading suffragists of
America.  At one time in the world's history
women were merely slaves, but gradually they
are gaining their way, and each year sees an
increased number espouse the cause of suffrage,
which ere long shall triumph.  They talk
about the patience of men.  Why, one day's
experience of the average man with the duties
of a wife with a growing family would drive
him into a lunatic asylum.  The more we do
for ourselves, the more the opposite sex respect
us.  I have heard it said that woman was too
good and pure to enter politics; that she would
rapidly be degraded.  I do not think so.  Pol-
itics cannot degrade woman, but woman can
elevate and purify politics.  There is every-
thing to gain and nothing to lose in the cause
in which we are engaged.  I do not believe
that it is necessary for a woman to neglect her
household because she believes in woman suf-
frage.  The question of woman suffrage does
not hinge upon the query as to whether the
majority of women want it or not.  The ques-
tion simply is, whether the right to vote is use-
ful or beneficial.  If it is so to men, it certainly
should be to women.
	The following address was then delivered by
		BISHOP O. F. WHITNEY:
	"I have consented to appear here to-day with
considerable reluctance; not because I was un-
willing to add my mite for the advancement of
a worthy cause, but because I feel painfully
my inefficiency to speak in such a cause.  It is
one to which I have given but little thought
and attention, owing mainly, no doubt, to pre-
occupation in other matters.  If I am thank-
ful for one thing, however, it is that I was born
with a heart free, to a great extent, from
bigotry.  It seems more natural for me to be-
lieve than to doubt, and, believing in woman
suffrage, I never could understand why she
should be denied that privilege, or the enjoy-
ment of any right to which she is justly en-
titled.  I never could see those great and in-
surmountable barriers which many imagine to
intervene between her and the rights which she
justly claims.  Woman is the other half of
man; he is not complete without her.  They
are brother and sister, offspring of the same
heavenly Parentage, and should go hand in
hand in every righteous effort, in every worthy
cause.  It was because I recognized justice and
consistency in her claim for the franchise, that
I never felt called upon to oppose it, while, as
I have said, preoccupation in other matters has
prevented my becoming as active a champion
of her cause as I otherwise might have been.
	Woman is typical of two things in which I
place great faith and confidence, namely; the
Earth upon which we dwell, our mortal
mother, from whom we derive physical nourish-
ment, and the Church of Christ, our spiritual
mother, who ministers to our higher necessities,

[Column 3]
Earth gives us our mortal bodies, which must
return to her bosom from whence they were
taken, and after that, by means of the resur-
rection, she gives them to us again in a new
birth, purified, immortal and eternal, and we
become the children of the Church of Christ in
everlasting glory.  As earth will be glorified
and the Church exalted, so woman will be
glorified and exalted, through obedience and
faithfulness, to the presence of the Highest. 
Woman is the gate-way by which we enter this
world, just as Christ, our Lord, is the gate-way
to the glories that lie beyond.  We cannot
afford to ignore her to whom God has given so
great a mission.  I believe that if the history
of the world—of which we have but a frag-
ment—were entirely told, we would find that
woman has typified in all her experiences the
experience of the Church of God in all ages.
The Church in this dispensation will never be
thrown down or given to another people.
Neither will the cause of woman fail, as at other
times; nevermore will she be trampled on, led
captive,or sold into slavery.  The hour of martyr-
dom for both is past; the day of their triumph
and victory has dawned.
	But there is order in all things that are
divine.  God is not the author of confusion.
"Order is heaven's first law," the poet says, but
we believe that obedience is heaven's first law,
and that order is the result of obedience to
righteous rule.  There must be a head, and in
the same sense that Christ is the head of the
Church, man is the head of the woman. So
says Paul.  Now, this being the case, the ad-
vancement of one means the advancement of
the other, and the degradation of either is the
degradation of both.  Exalt the head and
abase the body and separation ensues; decapi-
tation takes place, and disruption and death
are the result.  What a spectacle a human
body would present with its head swinging in
mid-aid, while the trunk,arms and legs remained
walking below!  No, we cannot exalt man and
degrade woman.  Christ is glorified when his
Church is exalted, and man is lifted up, or
cast down, according as woman is elevated or
depressed.
	But woman should not be idolized, or
worshiped as a deity.  It would seem that
many in modern times were actuated by a de-
sire to make amends in this respect for the
shortcomings of their ancestors.  Hence they
worship woman, or pretend to worship her, and
where but yesterday she was treated as a
slave, to-day she reigns a queen "with hearts
and passions prostrate at her feet."  One ex-
treme is as wrong as the other.  If man is
king, woman is queen; no more, no less.  They
reign together, side by side.  And when we
reach heaven, where God our Father rules the
universe, we will find Him seated on His
throne, a King, and our Mother at His side, a
Queen; not under His feet, nor above His
head.  Earthly things foreshow, or should fore-
show, things heavenly.
	I have often marveled at the inconsistency
of human nature, even in some of its highest
aspects.  We seem unwilling to extend to
others the same rights which we claim for our-
selves.  The Puritans of England fought for
freedom to worship God, and cut off the head
of a tyrant king to file a lasting protest against
oppression, and yet came here and established
a religious despotism, persecuting those who
differed from their peculiar views.  Nor did it
end there.  To-day the poets and patriots of
New England, who have sung and fought for
freedom for whites and blacks in former years,
seem oblivious to deeds of outrage and tyranny
committed right here in Utah.  They seem
unable or unwilling to look beyond their own
state boundary lines.  They will sing
eloquently of the rights of the black man; they
have girded their weapons of war and fought,
bled and died for the liberation of the negro


[Column 1]﻿
slave, but when the rights of the Mormons are
assailed, or the red men are the victims of
wrong, their harps are mute; their muses find
no utterance, their poetic and patriotic souls
fail to respond. Listen while I quote to you
the burning words of one of their living
masters of the lyre.

		"Men! whose boast it is that ye
		Come of fathers brave and free,
		If there breathe on earth a slave,
		Are ye truly free and brave?
		If ye do not feel the chain,
		When it works a brother's pain,
		Are ye not base slaves indeed,
		Slaves unworthy to be freed?

		Women! who shall one day bear
		Sons to breathe New England air,
		If ye hear, without a blush,
		Deeds to make the roused blood rush
		Like red lava through your veins,
		For your sisters now in chains,—
		Answer! are ye fit to be
		Mothers of the brave and free?

		Is true Freedom but to break
		Fetters for our own dear sake,
		And, with leathern hearts, forget
		That we owe mankind a debt?
		No! true freedom is to share
		All the chains our brothers wear,
		And, with heart and hand, to be
		Earnest to make others free!

		They are slaves who fear to speak
		For the fallen and the weak;
		They are slaves who will not choose
		Hatred, scoffing, and abuse,
		Rather than in silence shrink
		From the truth they needs must think;
		They are slaves who dare not be
		In the right with two or three."

	This for the cause of the black man, the
negro slave of the south. But I have heard
no poet sing thus eloquently for the down-
trodden people of Utah, nor for the rights of
the red man, oppressed and trampled on. Why
is it? Is it because they foresaw that the freed
negro would have a vote, and that the Indian
would not? Great heaven! has it come to this,
that poets and patriots can only string their
lyres and unsheathe their swords for votes?—
to secure a party election? I marvel at their
silence in these times. Again, why is it that
notable women, champions of liberty and
standard-bearers of thought, can come into our
midst and survey, unmoved and uncompassion-
ate, the woes and sorrows of their Mormon
sisters, left husbandless and unprotected by the
exile or imprisonment of their companions, or
thrown into dungeons themselves, for the sake
of conscience, and the freedom to worship God
in a land of religious liberty? How can a
Julia Ward Howe and an Emily Faithful,
women whose names are written high on the
scroll of fame, justify their souls in coming here
to see things for themselves, but, instead of
piercing beneath the social crust and telling
what they might have seen and heard, giving
a hasty glance at the surface of things, believ-
ing all the tales told them by the people's
enemies, and going away to repeat to the world
the stale slanders of local falsifiers?
	But I know to some extent what ought to be,
if it does not agree entirely with that which is.
I know that all men are the children of God;
the sons and daughters of one common Paren-
tage; and that we cannot prove our love for
Him unless we love each other and labor
zealously and devotedly for the general wel-
fare. May God speed the day when justice will
be done to all, of every creed and clime, of
every race, sex and condition; when bigotry
and prejudice will melt away like mist before
the morning sun, and the light of freedom,
peace and righteousness universally prevail.

[Column 2]
"For mankind are one in spirit, and an impulse bears
	along
Round the earth's electric circle the swift flash of right or
	wrong;
Whether conscious or unconscious, yet humanity’s vast
	frame,
Through its ocean-sundered fibres, feels the gush of joy or
	shame;
In the gain or loss of one race all the rest have equal
	claim."

	An excellent speech was then made by the
Delegate to the National Suffrage Convention
at Washington, D. C.,
		MRS. EMILY S. RICHARES.
	Many people suppose that the movement for
Woman's Suffrage was inaugarated by certain
strong minded women, because they desired to
usurp the prerogatives of men in govermental
affairs, and that the mere desire of that class
of women to vote is all that is now embraced
in the subject. Such an idea is not only in-
correct but unjust. The question of Woman's
Suffrage is the natural outgrowth of the agita-
tion of Woman's rights, which was commenced
in this country more than fifty years ago, and
which had been going on nearly a score of
years, when Elizabeth Cady Stanton startled her
associates in the Seneca Falls Convention of
1848, with her memorable resolution in favor
of the elective franchise for women. And
while the issue now seems to be upon the ques-
tion of suffrage, there is still lying behind it
that grand idea the elevation of women and the
equality of the sexes.
	In order to clearly understand the suffrage
movement as it now presents itself to us, we
must bear in mind the causes which led to its
inception, and remember the conditions of wo-
men which it sought to change. We will then
see that its adherents desire it as a means, by
which to obtain the civil and political rights
and privileges that belong to women, as well as
men, rather than as a means of gratifying any
personal desire or ambition for prominence in
public life; although the latter has been
charged by many as the real motive for agitat-
ing the question. The facts do not sustain this
charge.
	The following resolution, declaring for Wo-
men's rights, which was unanimously adopted
by the Convention of 1848, gives a fair idea of
the position of its adherents:
	"Resolved, that being invested by the
Creator with the same capabilities and the same
consciousness of responsibility for their exer-
cise, it is demonstrably the right and duty of
Woman, equally with Man, to promote every
righteous cause by every righteous means, and
especially in regard to the great subjects of
morals and religion, it is self-evidently her
right to participate with her brother in teach-
ing them both in private and in public, by
writing, speaking, and by any instrumental-
ities proper to be used, and in any assemblies
proper to be held; and this being a self evident
truth, growing out of the divinely implanted
principles of human nature, any custom or
authority adverse to it, whether modern or
wearing the hoary sanction of antiquity, is to
be regarded as a self evident falsehood and at
war with mankind."
	No fair minded person could object, either
then or now, to the sentiments expressed in
that resolution. but when Mrs. Stanton won for
herself the honor of having initiated the move-
ment for Woman's Suffrage, by presenting to
the same convention her resolution on franchise,
it caused much discussion and was only carried
by a small minority, although only its senti-
ment, and not its terms, was open to criticism.
It read as follows:
	"Resolved that it is the duty of the women
of this country to secure to themselves their
sacred right to the elective franchise."
	The anti-Slavery movements that took place

[Column 3]
during the early part of the present century,
seem to have had a potential influence in start-
ing agitation of the question of Woman's rights,
and it is claimed that the arbitrary exclusion
of Lucretia Mott and her American colleagues
from the "World's Anti-Slavery Convention,"
held at London in 1840, was the immediate
cause for calling a "Woman's rights Conven-
tion" in America, and the inaugaration of the
great work that has since been prosecuted here
for the emancipation of women.
	Lucretia Mott had already spoken in her na-
tive land against the enthraldom of her sex.
She frankly admitted "all the differences that
the Creator had made in the relation of man
and woman" and disclaimed any desire to dis-
turb this relation, but she insisted that the civil,
social and religious disabilities of woman were
such as "to impede her progress, enervate her
mind and paralyse her powers;" thus preventing
her from becoming a "true woman" and a
"moral responsible being." Angelina Grimke,
Abby Kelly and others had enunciated similar
views in different parts of our nation.
	To fully appreciate and justify the striking
words of these noble women, we must pause for
a moment and briefly consider a few of the
disabilities to which our sex were then subject.
An eminent legal author, writing on this sub-
ject says, that the theory of the common law,
which then prevailed with regard to women,
was "a slavish one and a disgrace to any civil-
ized nation;" that "with regard to political
rights, women formed a positive exception to
the general doctrine of equality," and that
language describing their condition, if "applied
to males, would be the exact definition of
political slavery;" that the legal theory made
"the husband and wife one person, and that
person the husband," while there was "scarcely
a legal act of any description" that woman was
competent to perform.
	This is indeed strong language but the facts
justified its use. The Women of America who
to-day enjoy the legal right, without let or
hindrance of any one, to aquire, hold, and
dispose of property, real and personal, without
limit or restriction as to kind or value, can
hardly realize the abject condition of their
sisters, who were disqualified by law from even
holding the legal titles to the homes in which
they dwelt, and whose entire estates, including
the very clothes they wore and the food they
ate, belonged absolutely to their husbands, al-
though it might have been earned, by the
weary toil of their own hands and heads.
	That women are fully capable of filling the
positions of editors, reporters, lawyers, doctors,
merchants, clerks, cashiers, telegraph and tele-
phone operators, typewriters, artists, musicians,
printers, photographers, and scores of other like
professions and callings, has been fully demon-
strated by experience. Many instances are of
record where they have shown equal skill with
men, and greater endurance in the trying
duties of literary and journalistic pursuits, as
well as in professional life. This was notably
the case with women reporters during the last
national political campaign. Many of them
did more work than men, and that too without
stimulants of any kind, while the men resorted
to strong drinks and other stimulants to enable
them to endure the strain of incessant work.
	When we think of the changes that have
been wrought in the few short years since
women were first admitted into the positions I
have named, and others which might be men-
tioned, we are prone to lose sight of the power-
ful agencies that have been at work, during all
these years, breaking down the inexorable laws
and customs of ages, which held woman in their
cruel grasp and prevented her from becoming,
in all the walks of life, the intellectual, moral
and social companion of man.
	How often do we stop to think that this is
the noble work in which the advocates of Wo-


[Column 1]
man's rights and Woman's suffrage have been
so ardently engaged, and who of us can tell how
much of the progress that has been made in
that direction is due to the patient labors of
such women as Lucretia Mott, Elizabeth Cady
Stanton, Susan B. Anthony, Belva A. Lock-
wood, Lucy Stone, Laura O. Chant, Isabella
Beecher Hooker, Frances E. Willard, Mary A;
Livermore, Julia Ward Howe, Matilda Joslyn
Gage, Elizabeth Lisle Saxon, and scores of 
others who have devoted their lives to the
amelioration of the condition of women? Years
ago they received as encouragement from the
world, derision and scorn, but now the wreath
of laurel and the victor's crown are beginning
to fall upon the furrowed brows of these hon-
ored champions of their sex.
	Still the work of redemption has only just
begun. While the professions and higher
walks of life are open to women of ability, who
can avail themselves of such advantages, their
less favored sisters, the seamstress, the factory
girl, and others similarly situated, are still
struggling to free themselves from the terrors
of that inhuman custom, which prevents them  
from getting the same remuneration for their
labor as that realized by men for the same
work; and thousands of women are now wear-
ing away their lives, (in this great land which
has been consecrated to liberty,) by unremitt-
ing toil, for which many of them receive less
than a quarter of a dollar for a day's work of
nearly eighteen hours; and out of this mis-
erable pittance some of them have to support
their children as well as themselves. Is it not
worthy the best efforts of the best women to
remedy this great evil, and, by enabling
women to get just compensation for the work
they do, abolish much of the suffering that now
exists and obviate many of the necessities that
lead to sin and crime? Such a work must be
worthy of Divine favor, and it lies at the very
foundation of the Woman's Suffrage movement.
	Then the evils of intemperance must be over-
come. The amount of sorrow, suffering
and sin that this demon has entailed upon the 
human race is beyond computation or accurate
estimation. Happy homes have been invaded
and domestic felicity ruthlessly destroyed.
Where peace and plenty were wont to abound,
poverty and strife now take up their abode.
Dutiful wives have become miserable outcasts,
and innocent children have been driven into
dens of vice. No tongue can tell, nor pen de-
pict the misery that drink has wrought. It is
the peculiar work of woman that is destined to 
vanquish the insatiable monster and free her
sex from its most deadly enemy. The great
temperance work that has already been done,
in different parts of the Union, under the direc-
tion of such noble women as Frances Willard, 
Susan B. Anthony and their associates, com-
mands the admiration of the world and fully
justifies the prediction of ultimate triumph.
	The National Woman's Suffrage Association
is the most prominent, as well as the most com-
prehensive organization of women in the land.
While its ostensible object, as indicated by its
name, is to secure the elective franchise for
women, its ultimate purpose is to effect the dis-
enthrallment of woman in all the walks of life,
and every branch of woman's work has the 
hearty sympathy and support of this Associa-
tion. For many years past it has held its
 annual conventions, composed of Delegates
from the different States and Territories, at the
National Capital, and, of late years, United
States Senators, and Congressmen, and others
of National repute, have taken part in their
meetings. Last year an "International Council
of Women" was held at Washington, D. C.,
under the auspices of this Association, at which
were represented nearly every State and Terri-
in the Union, as well as the leading countries
of Europe and other parts of the civilized
world. The Council lasted a week; its pro-

[Column 2]
ceedings are published in a large volume, which
gives a comprehensive and almost marvelous
account of woman's work. Although some-
what familiar with the subject I was not only
delighted but surprised at the varied and 
mammoth proportions of the cause. 
By means of auxiliary associations through-
out the country, such as the one recently organ-
ized in this Territory, the National is able to
carry on systematic work in all the different
departments. When the temperance cause
needs strength, in Kansas or elsewhere, able 
and efficient women are sent from different
parts of the land to wage the warfare there, and
when the labor move needs help in the East,
valiant women are assigned to that department;
and so the good work goes on with quiet but
irresistible momentum.
	Since the National has been holding its con-
ventions at Washington, much work has been
done before Committees of Congress, as well as
with individual members. Several important
hearings have been had, at which the subject
of suffrage has been discussed, and lively de-
bates have taken place in the Senate and 
House of Representatives on this question. At
first it was difficult to find champions for the
cause in either branch of the National Legisla-
ture, but since Senators Blair and Palmer
made their powerful appeals for Woman's Suf-
frage, the number of adherents to the cause has
materially increased and, were it not for the
 stern opposition of Southern Senators—which
is founded on the fact that the enfranchisement
of women means, to the south, an increase of
the colored vote, and consequent negro rule—
the relief sought for could have been obtained
before now.
	While the general work has been going on,
Utah has not been neglected by the National
Association. On several occasions leading suf-
frage women have appeared before Committees
of Congress and protested in the strongest
terms against the taking away of our franchise.
Mrs. Lockwood and Miss Anthony are deserv-
ing of particular mention in this connection,
and their efforts were ably seconded by other
eloquent, warm-hearted women. Having been
present on some of these occasions, I can speak
feelingly of the work that has been done, and 
reverently of the noble women who did it. My
soul has often breathed the prayer: "God
bless and reward them for all they have done
and said for us."
	The woman suffragists are represented by
many talented writers and eloquent speakers.
Their newspapers and periodicals are ably con-
ducted and wield a power for good in the 
land. On the lecture platform and in the
pulpit are heard words of burning eloquence
and poetic pathos from women's lips; and had
I the time, it would afford me pleasure to pay
my humble tribute to some of these distinguised
women, but I must forebear. My purpose in
this brief address has been to show that there
is something really meritorious in the Woman's
Suffrage movement, and that by promoting it,
we do not necessarily depart from woman's
true sphere in life, nor make her usurp man's
prerogatives. Men and women can and should
work together, for the amelioration of the race,
and should share with each other the
responsibilities, as well as the pleasures of 
life.
	Let us use our strength and influence for the
advancement of this noble work, for "woman's
rights are human rights." Let us remember
that however great our own reluctance to
occupy political positions, there are those of
our sex whose lives and honor depend upon
their possession of political power. Let us
not put obstacles in their way, by declaring
that we have all the rights we want, but rather
let us individually petition the powers that be
to grant them deliverance from their oppres-
sions. In doing this we will not try to create

[Column 3]
for man a rival, a superior, or a head, but we
will try to make woman what our beneficient
Creator designed that she should be, the com-
panion, the sister, and the helpmeet of man.  
			(To be continued.)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Celebration of the one hundredth anniver-
sary of the inauguration of Prest. Geo. Wash-
ington in the Tabernacle, this city, April 30,
Lieut. R. W. Young, orator of the day.


Training School for Nurses

	On the fifteenth of May, the Second Term of Dr.
Hughes’ Training School for Nurses begins, a class
of twelve (12) students completing their first term of
three months on the fourth of May. This is the
first Training School for Nurses established in
Utah, and the instruction given embraces the best
methods of teaching of the Eastern Schools, whose
systems have been thoroughly investigated by the
teacher. The purpose of this school is to give a
wider knowledge of waiting upon the sick, and all
the branches pertaining to nursing will be thorough-
ly discussed in the successive terms. The second
term will be held in Dr. Hughes’ new residence, on
First West Street. Students desiring to enter, should
make application as early as possible, so that ar-
rangements can be made for securing text books.
	TUITION,	-	-	-	$25.00.
	Special arrangements can be made for Obstetrical
teaching. Address:
				M. P. Hughes,
P. O. Box 575.				Salt Lake City, Utah.

			    WANTED.
	Gentlemen and Ladies of good address and
education to enter a commercial business,
where promotion and salary at three dollars
per day is guaranteed, small security required
“or bonds.” Address for further particulars,
			M. GLASSFORD,
				354 E. Brigham Street,
					Salt Lake City, Utah.
			
R.K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY .GOODS:
	Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

	DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
