VOL. 17.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 1, 1888.	NO. 3.


[For the Exponent.]
ARISE! SHINE! FOR THY LIGHT IS
COME!

Arise! arise! thy light is come!
	O, Zion, rise and shine! 
Put all thy beauteous garments on,
	Uplift those eyes of thine,
For glory all unspeakable
	Is risen over thee;
Thy Lord, the incomparable,
	Thy light and joy will be.

Thick darkness covers all the earth,
	Through which thy light shall shine,
And give to many souls new birth,
	And thou shalt claim them thine;
And they shall fly to thine embrace
	As doves to windows fair,
Delighting in the Kingly grace
	Of Him who dwelleth there.

Thou shalt break forth on every side.
	Thy children cluster round;
Enlarge and spread thy curtains wide,
	Let strengthening stakes abound;
Swift ships shall bring thee sons from far,
	And daughters from the isles;
And kings their nursing fathers are,
	Queen mothers greet with smiles.

Behold, the Gentiles unto thee
	In meek demean shall come; 
Their kings thy rising splendor see,
	And swiftly, gladly run.
The sons of them that did oppress
	Shall bending come to thee,
The sons of strangers build thy walls,
	And princes bow the knee.

Whatever nation serves thee not.
	Thy God will lay it waste;
They who against thee gather up
	Shall perish for thy sake.
God hid His face in a little wrath,
	And left thee to thy foes,
But everlasting kindness shall
	His changeless love disclose.

Though mighty mountains should depart.
	Or hills flee far away,
His Covenants with thee remain
	And grace and mercy stay.  
Thy wood be brass, thy brass be gold,
	And Iron be thy stones;
Thy fair foundations sapphires hold,
	Thy borders pleasant stones.

No violence shall come to thee,
	Oppressors, none be found.
No wasting nor destruction be
	Within thy utmost bound.
Thy people all shall righteous be,
	Inheriting the land;
Thou shalt become a glorious tree
	Here planted by His hand.

His heavenly favor on thee beams,
	Thy walls resound with praise,
His love divine, in deepening streams,
	Flows 'round thee all thy days.
Rejoice! rejoice!  give thanks and sing.
	The hills repeat thy joy,
The trees and winds to praise thy King
	Their voices sweet employ.

Fear not! thou shalt not be ashamed,
	For He will glorious make
The place where He hath set His feet,
	And never thee forsake.
Rejoice! rejoice! be pure and true,
	No more in sadness wait;

[Column 2]

Thy Lord doth all his words renew-
	Redemption's at thy gate.

		LU DALTON.


[Column 1]

JULIA WARD HOWE.

	The recent visit of Mrs. Julia Ward Howe
to Salt Lake City, has awakened a desire to
fulfil immediately a promise made some time
since, when a short sketch was published of
Lucy Stone, that we would give a pen portrait
of Mary A. Livermore and Julia Ward 
Howe.
	Mrs. Howe has become more widely known
everywhere (in this country at least), through
her "Battle Hymn of the Republic," than even
her social, literary and political attainments
had made her, or one might with propriety add,
even the fame of her distinguished husband,
Dr. Samuel G. Howe, now some years deceased.
She will live in that one hymn as long as the
remembrance of the war shall last, and that
will be forever.
	Mrs. Howe was the daughter of Samuel
Ward, a banker in the city of New York, and
early in her school life the little girl had
written verses that betokened a brilliancy of
talent that has since been manifestly apparent
to the world. In these school days she pub-
lished a review of Lamartine's Jocelyn with
translations in English verse, and afterwards
another review of Dwight's translation of the
minor poems of Goethe and Schiller. How
these works were received by the literary world
we cannot say, but, at any rate, the girl kept on
"reading, writing and dreaming."
	When Mrs. Howe nee Miss Ward was twenty
years of age her father died, and soon after a
dear brother; then she began studying the
Bible with the same enthusiasm which had
characterized her in the study of philosophy
and other pursuits of a like nature. Inclined,
as almost all poetic temperaments are, to sea-
sons of melancholy, the sorrows that came
into her life intensified this mood, and she be-
came a "religious and spiritual enthusiast."
She was roused from this condition of mind by
studying "Guizot's History of Civilization,"
which awakened a new life within her.
	"At twenty-three she married Dr. S. G. 
Howe, of Boston—a man whose heroic labors
for Greece in her struggle for independence,
whose beautiful devotion to the blind, and
whose anti-slavery crusades, made men speak
of him as the new Bayard."
	They went abroad immediately, and though
the idol of her circle at home, "her only claim
to social distinction" abroad, "was her hus-
band's fame. Her first child was born in
Rome; her mother-love was strong, and her
passion for the supreme city was deep and fer-
vent." She lived in this divine atmosphere
for months, and then came back to the cold
clearness of New England days, settled into
the prosaic round of housekeeping, and gave
herself much to society." She read, however,
such works as stimulated her to "new resolves
of thoroughness and breadth of culture." In
1850 she went abroad again, and all this time
her strong, active mind was being improved by
what she saw and experienced in her journey-
ings here and there. Soon after she published
"Passion Flowers," a book of poems, said to
have been "over-blamed and over-praised."
She still continued to cultivate art and books.
Dr. Howe had charge of The Commonwealth,
and his wife contributed to its columns editori-

[Column 2]

als, verses and literary articles, which to her
was practical educational work, and must have
had a tendency to make her acquainted with
the most famous men and writers of the time,
a time that called forth the best powers and
thoughts of those "zealous for the liberty of
the slave." Her next book was, "Words for
the Hour." These poems, it is said, "were 
riper, and, even more full of promise."
	Still  studying industriously, still writing
peseveringly, in spite of criticism or flattery,
adhering to her own views, and maintaining a
distinct individuality and the courage one sel-
dom finds in woman, Mrs. Howe pressed on-
ward in her literary career. In 1857 she pub-
lished a play—"The World's Own"—brilliant
and brimful of dramatic feeling. It was
produced at Wallack's Theatre in New York,
In 1859 Dr. and Mrs. Howe accompanied
Theodore Parker to Cuba, and during her
travels she gathered material for a very charm-
ing book, an account of the journey, which
appeared first in the Atlantic Monthly, and
afterwards in a volume called, "A Trip to
Cuba." About the same time Mrs. Howe
wrote occasional letters to the New York Tri-
bune, from Boston, New York and Washington.
Her letters were "about the gay world and
people, and places of note, about summer days 
and autumn glories, about poetry, art and
religion." Mrs. Howe has studied the works
of  the great philosophers, Swedenborg,
Spinoza, Kant, Fichte and Hegel. She has
written many social and philosophic papers,
and has given lectures on ethics. She read a
remrkable lecture of hers at a meeting of the
American Society of Arts and Sciences, at
Northampton, Mass., called "Man a priori and
a posteriori." She has published essays, entitled,
"Polarity," "Limitation," and "the Fact Ac-
complished." We could name many other
essays of hers, but shall only mention one more
before closing this article, the one read at
the International Council in Washington last
April, on Organization.
	Mrs. Howe's last book of miscellaneous
poems is called, "Later Lyrics." She has a
lyrical series called, "Her verses," said by a
fine critic to recall Mrs. Browning's "Sonnets
from the Portuguese," with more of Sappho
and less of the saint." Mrs. Howe has written
a biography of Margaret Fuller, which does
her great credit, and is full of womanly tender-
ness in its style. A later book of travels,
"From the Oak to the Olive," is very highly
spoken of.  It is the story of a journey from
London to Athens via. Paris, Marseilles, Rome
Naples and Venice.
	Mrs. Howe has been, for many years, an
active member of the American Woman
Suffrage Association, of which she has some-
times been President. Mrs. Howe is President
of the Association for the Advancement of
Women, which holds its Congresses once a
year, generally changing from city to city to
accomodate members and reach the people in
different places. This fall the Woman's Con-
gress, as it is called, will meet in Detroit, 
Michigan. This Association gets confused
with the Suffrage Association by those who
are not familiar with the organizations and the
terms used, but it has no connection whatever
with that association, though a number of the
ladies are members of both associations, and
some of them not believers in woman's suffrage
at all. Mrs. Howe in a letter to me, dated
at Newport, R. I., Oct. 3rd, 1883, stated: "The


[Column 1]
topics for the Congress are all selected, and the
papers assigned, quite early in the year. Our
rules do not allow the introduction of any
papers not provided for in this way." This
gives one a little idea of the Association of
Advancement for Women. It is composed of
educated and cultured women, and they have
by-laws and so forth for the Association to be
governed by. Mrs. Howe is also President of
the New England Woman's Club, which was
organized Feb. 11, 1868, making it older than
Sorosis, the woman's club of New York City.
	These clubs were organized about the same
time that the Retrenchment Associations were
in Utah, since called Y. L. M. I. A., showing
that a spirit and influence to gain knowledge
by organized effort, and to do good to each
other, was abroad in the world. "The first ob-
ject of the N. E. Club was to organize the
women of Boston, at that time working singly
in the various fields of philanthropy, into a
compact body, and thus to greatly enlarge
their usefulness, the severely useful being, as
we outsiders acknowledge with proper humili-
ty, the watchword of New England." The
quotation made here is from an article by Olive
Thorne Miller in "Woman." As I have a de-
cided preference in favor of everything that
originates in New England, because, I suppose,
of the New England blood in my veins, and
my happy childhood there; I feel an uncommon
interest in the N. E. Woman's Club. The most
prominent names on the list of officers of this
Club are, Mrs. Howe, Prest.; Dr. Ednah
D. Cheney, Vice Prest.; and Miss Elizabeth P.
Peabody, the American mother of the Kindergar-
ten, said to be "one of Boston's most interesting
and representative women"—all three ladies
being lecturers in the Concord School of
Philosophy. Other noted members are, Abby
Morton Diaz, Lucy Stone, H. L. T. Woolcott,
Maria Mitchell, Kate Gannett Wells and Abbey
W. May. To tell our readers of the workings
of this Club and its development, would require
an article by itself, but we have mentioned it
incidentally in connection with Mrs. Howe.
	There are many interesting things one would
like to bring in when writing of this celebrated
woman, but it is impossible to include all in a
brief sketch. Mrs. Howe's versatility is very
great, she is brilliant in so many ways; unlike
many literary people and leading suffrage
women, she is what in the world is termed "a
society woman." She has been quoted as a
model mother, affectionate and devoted, yet
her scholarly attainments, rank her with men
whose lives are wholly given to their profes-
sion. 
	Mrs. Howe's article on "The Power of Or-
ganization," read at the International Council
in Washington last winter, was quite in keep-
ing with the views advanced by our people,
and rather reminded me of Brigham Young,
as it was much in his  line of thought on the
subject. Her article in The Forum for June
—"Men, Women and Money"—is a very good
good one, and her ideas on these matters do
not differ materially from those we advocate.
Mrs. Howe has had great opportunities, her
whole life having been spent in the midst of
people of wealth, education and culture.
	The post of President of the Woman's De-
partment of the World's Exposition in New
Orleans, in 1884-5, was a handsome compliment
to her executive ability, which she certainly
possesses in a large degree, and the result
proved her equal to the situation. She spoke
of her labors there with much satisfaction to
me, when I met her in New York in 1886, and
afterwards sent me her "Report and Catalogue
of the Woman's Department," a carefully pre-
pared work, containing, in perfect order, the
most minute details.
	It is said Mrs. Howe had auburn hair when
younger, but now it is beautifully white, and
well becomes her dignified and queenly bearing

[Column 2]
and is in harmony with the depth of thought
and research which her whole appearance indi-
cates. That such a woman should have writ-
ten the "Battle Hymn of the Republic" seems
only natural. Mrs. Howe has told us in her
own way in The Century how she was inspired
to write it. There is more in the hymn than
one is likely to see in first reading it, and as
there may be some who have never read it ap-
preciatively, we republish it here in full. 

BATTLE-HYMN OF THE REPUBLIC.

Mine eyes have seen the glory of the coming of the Lord;
He is trampling out the vintage where the grapes of wrath
	are stored;
He hath loosed the fateful lightning of his terrible swift 
	sword. 
			His truth is marching on.

I have seen him in the watch-fires of a hundred circling
	camps; 
They have builded him an altar in the evening dews and
	damps;
I can read his righteous sentence by the dim and flaring
	lamps.
			His day is marching on. 

I have read a fiery gospel, writ in burnished rows of steel;
"As ye deal with my contemners, so with you my grace
	shall deal;
Let the Hero, born of woman, crush the serpent with his
	heel,
			Since God is marching on."

He has sounded forth the trumpet that shall never call
	retreat,
He is sifting out the hearts of men before his judgement-
	seat:
O, be swift, my soul, to answer him! be jubilant my feet!
			Our God is marching on.

In the beauty of the lilies Christ was born across the sea,
With a glory in his bosom that transfigures you and me;
As He died to make men holy. let us die to make men 
	free,
			While God is marching on.

	It seems very strange that in Mrs, Howe's 
first visit to Salt Lake she could have been so
absorbed, as not to have any time to give to
"Mormon" women, and especially as at the
present time "Mormonism" is considered one
of the problems of the nineteenth century.
For a woman with Mrs. Howe's breadth of
thought, liberal views and knowledge of peo-
ples and countries, to come to Utah and not
meet "Mormons," must be similar to seeing the
play of Hamlet with the character of Hamlet
left out. "Mormon" women have as high an
appreciation of genius and talent, wherever it
exists, as any other women, and are ever will-
ing to accord "honor where honor is due."
We cannot but regret, for Mrs. Howe's own
sake, that she did not speak in a hall large
enough for all the ladies of Salt Lake City to
hear her. 				E. B. W.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ANNUAL MEETING.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	The Annual meeting of our Relief Society
was held on Saturday, May 12, 1888, being the
twentieth anniversary since its organization.
There were present with us Stake President,
Sister Adeline Barber, her Counselor, Sister
Cardon, Sister Carrie, M. C. Smith, Stake Presi-
dent of the Y. L. M. I. A., and others; also
quite a number of brethren. The meeting
convened at 10 a.m., when after the usual
opening exercises and much good instruction
the officers were unanimously sustained.
From 12 m. until 2 p.m picnic was enjoyed.
	In the afternoon a programme was rendered
consisting of a tribute of respect to the three
Presidents of the Society written by Sister E.
Nelson; songs, recitations and readings inter-


spersed with addresses by the brethren and
sisters.
		SECRETARY.
	Smithfield, May 24, 1888.


CORRESPONDENCE OF 1776.

BRAINTREE, Mass, 31 Mar. 1776.
	Abigail Adams to John Adams: I long to hear
that you have declared an independency. And
by the way, in the new code of laws which I
suppose it will be necessary for you to make, I
desire you would remember the ladies and be
more generous and favorable to them than your
masters. Do not put such unlimited power into
the hands of the husbands. Remember, all men
would be tyrants if they could. If particular
care and attention is not paid to the ladies,
we are determined to foment a rebellion, and
will not hold ourselves bound by any laws in
which we have no voice or representation.
Men of sense in all ages abhor these customs
which treat us only as the vassals of your sex.
	John to Abagail: As to your extraordinary
code of laws, I can but laugh.	*	*	*
Depend upon it, we know better than to re-
peal our masculine systems. Although they
are in full force, you know they are little more
than theory. We dare not exert our power to 
its full latitude.
	May 7, 1776, Abigail to John: I cannot say
that I think you are very generous to the
ladies,for while you are proclaiming peace and
good will to all men, emancipating all nations,
you insist upon retaining an absolute power
over wives.


Mrs. J. Ellen Foster, of Iowa, urged upon
the Republican Platform Committee at Chicago
the necessity of a pronounced utterance on th
temperance question.
	The justice that must surely follow the
equalization of the sexes would more than re-
pay the sacrifice of those small gallantries,
which are only acquired, and no outgrowth of
the soul within. A woman could well afford
to stand in a car for twenty minutes or more,
going home from her work, if she felt she had
received for her labor the same amount of
money a man would have earned for that
amount of work.—Woman's Chronicle.
	Rev. James Freeman Clark,the distinguished
author and Unitarian minister,died at his home
in Jamacia Plain, June 8. His influence was
marked on the educational and social life of
Boston and he will be especially remembered 
for his warm sympathy with the woman suf-
frage movement. He was always a valued
friend and co-worker of the New England leaders
in this reform. Mr. Clark was fond of recall-
ing his acquaintance with Margaret Fuller from
whom he used to say he had learned to see the
true value of life and how to live for a great
end.—Ex.
	Miss Clara Barton, president of the Ameri-
can Association of the Red Cross, whose name
is known and honored throughout the world,
has lately been the subject of some curiously
misleading newspaper reports. She has been
represented (probably owing to her internation-
al reputation) as a lady of foreign birth; and
the most diverse accounts have been given of 
her views as to woman suffrage. Miss Barton
by request, has furnished the Woman's Journal
with a statement of the facts; which are, that
she was born in Oxford, Mass., of pure Ameri-
can stock, and that she cannot remember the time
when she did not believe in woman suffrage.
This was made clear in her speech at the recent
Woman Suffrage Festival, which was imper-
fectly reported, and which she has kindly
written out, by our request.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[For the EXPONENT.]
		THE REVOLUTIONARY OFFICERS.	
REFLECTIONS ON GEO. III AND FAREWELL TO GEN. 
					WASHINGTON.

Proud king, for all our hands have toiled, for all onr fre-
	hearts gave,
For this dear land we called thine own, that reared thee
	subjects brave. 
For tears and prayers and loyal faith and all true man 
	might give.
What hast thou giv'n but caused us 'neath oppression still

O, hateful tyrant! gone is now the glory of thy crown!
Tho' still on Britain's throne thou sit'st, on thee doth
	Heaven frown!
On thee hath fallen vengeance dire, thy weight was far too
	light;
And now with grateful tears and prayers we praise the God
	of Right.

And here in love, in pride, in joy before our chieftain dear,
We bow in humblest gratitude nor blush the manly tear—
Our tears have flowed in darker hours when toil and woe
	and war
Were dread companions, clouding e'er the light of Hope's
	bright star.

That star hath set; its dying beams were merged in
	brighter rays,
The Sun of Freedom flashes now its light on happier
	days,
And now upon this dear young land our benedictions
	move—
God keep it sacred, free and pure, and worthy of His love

And thou, our leader, bravest, best, pure gem of light
	and truth,
Let future ages ne'er forget the glory of thy youth;
Thy name shall be remembered e'er in grateful love and
	pride,
Full well we know thy noble worth who conquered by thy
	side!

Farewell! When other days shall come and fill thy soul
	with peace,
When tenderer love shall soothe thine heart and bid woe's
	conflict cease,
When waiting for a brighter day to view a happier world,
Remember still with joy the hour that Freedom's flag
	unfurled!
							RUBY LAMONT.
   Richfield, Utah, June 27, 1888.


[Column 1]

DR. RACHEL L. BODLEY.

	The Woman's Journal of June 23rd pub-
lished the death of Dr. Rachel L. Bodley,
Dean of the Pennsylvania Woman's Medical
College. Dr. Bodley was in charge of the
College when some of the ladies from Salt Lake
graduated. It will, no doubt, be a grief and
surprise to hear of her sudden death, which
occurred June 15th, the cause being heart
failure. She was taken seriously ill on Wednes-
day evening, previous to her death on Friday.
Dr. Bodley died at her home in Philadelphia,
but her remains were taken to Cincinnati for
burial. "Miss Bodley was born in Cincinnati,
Ohio, Dec. 7, 1831."
	After having been for some years a teacher
in the higher collegiate studies, Miss Bodley
became a special student in chemistry and
physics in the Polytechnic College in Phila-
delphia, in 1860. In 1862 she returned to
Cincinnati, and was given the position of Pro-
fessor of Natural Sciences in the Cincinnati
Female Seminary, which place she occupied
three years. "In 1865 she was called to the
chair of chemistry and toxicology in the
Woman's medical College of Pennysylvania;
she was elected Dean of the Faculty in January,
1874, and from that time" she has given her-
self time and talents to the college, and has
sought to secure for woman and her work re-
spect and recognition. She has held some very
important and influential positions, and had had

[Column 2]

conferred upon men the degree of A. M. in
the Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila-
delphia; up to that time the institution had
never given a degree to any of its alumni sub-
sequent to the A. B. at graduation. "In 1880
she was made a member of the Franklin
Institute, and was the first woman to deliver
any extended course of lectures in the Institute."
"In 1882 she was chosen a member of the
Educational Society of Philadelphia, and
served three years as Director on the School
Board. After being out one term, "was re-
elected January, 1887, and held the position at
the time of her death."
	The Woman's Journal, in our opinion, pays
a glowing tribute to the memory of this re-
nowned Dr., when it says, "Dr. Bodley's house
was a centre of hospitality, and she was
crippled in her resources by the generous habit
of entertaining strangers attracted by her
 many points of contact with the religious and 
educational world."
	"She dies in the plentitude of her powers."
	"Her correspondents on behalf of the college
numbered, the Queen of England, Lady
Dufferin, and a number of illustrious persons
in several countries."
	From the accounts of Dr. Bodley, which we
have heart and read, she was, in some respects,
similiar to Dr. Lozier, whose death occurred a
short time ago. Both were eminent in the pro-
fession they had chosen for their special life-
work, and both were intensely sympathetic and
generous; they were neither of them afraid of
contact with "Mormon" women, but large-
souled enough to accord to them the same
courtesy they extended to other noble workers.
	The writer had the pleasure of seeing and
conversing with Dr. Lozier at her own home
in New York in the winter of 1886, and was
much impressed with her sympathetic views on
the rights of "Mormon" women. Her letter
protesting against the injustice of the Edmunds
law in their behalf, was widely circulated, and
proved she was not fearful of being contamina-
ted by defending the political position of the
women of Utah.
	"Dr. Bodley," it is said, "took Dr. Anandibai
Joshee into her own house, and with a beautiful
sympathy encouraged the little Hindoo woman
to adhere firmly to her national religion.”
	The world needs such women as these, with
broad views, liberal ideas, generous hearts and 
true respect for the opinions of others. Dr.
Lozier and Dr. Bodley were educated and re-
fined in the heart as well as in the head.
		E. B. W.


[column 1]
CORRESPONDENCE.
DEAR EDITOR:

Having had the privilege of attending the
dedication of the Manti Temple and of par-
taking of the holy influence there enjoyed, my
mind has been filled with thoughts concerning
that holy place and the sacred ordinances there-
in performed. I wish all our young ladies
could have been there to enjoy the feast, for it
was certainly a feast to the soul and gave joy
and happiness to all who had contributed of
their means for its erection.
	It was a grand event in our lives especcially
so to those who had never been in a Temple.
The spirit that was there was proof that God
had accepted the labors and sacrifices of his
people, and had accepted the beautiful house
built to His name. Manifestations of ap-
proval were seen and heard by many. Yet
some try to make us believe we did not see or
hear anything of a heavenly nature, and at-
tribute the manifestations to earthly causes.
But we have a right to expect manifestations
of approval when we do the will of our
Heavenly Father and please Him by our
[column 2]
labors and sacrifices, and surely He and the
angels were pleased with the completion of
that house when the object to be attained is
the redemption of the living and the dead.
How grand, how beautiful and how broad is
the plan of salvation. No one who under-
stands .our religion can truthfully say we are
narrow in our views of salvation, when we
show by our willingness to impart of our sub-
stance, to devote our time and talents in erect-
ing houses for ordinances of the redemption
of all the dead as well as the living. What a
glorious principle is baptism for the dead and
what a work of love for the living to perform.
Attending the Dedication has had a good effect
upon the people, inspiring them with new zeal
to obtain their records of their ancestors and
increasing their desires to remain faithful that
they may be worth to receive blessings in the
House of the Lord.
	Oh, my young sisters, let me, as a friend and
sister who has your interest at heart, beg of
you to seek the things of God and live pure
and virtuous lives, shun the society of the low
and wicked, make the Lord your friend and he
will teach you by his spirit how to walk before
Him acceptably. Heed the counsels of your
parents and those who counsel you for your
good for they are your best friends though per-
haps now you think otherwise, but the time
will come, either to your sorrow or to your joy,
when you will acknowledge they were your
true friends and taught you what was right.
Do not, I beseech of you, shut the door of the
Temple in your faces by uniting yourselves in
marriage with one who is not of our faith; or
one who is unworthy to be recommended by
his Bishop. Think of it girls, think how little
you prize yourselves or your blessings, to give
yourself to one who can not be recommended
to the Temple. It may seem of little import-
ance to you now in your youthful thoughtless
happiness, but I tell you it is of vital import-
ance to you. You will find when trials and
troubles that are the common lot of humanity
come upon you, when you have sickness and
death and are brought down in humility and
sorrow; that you have cut yourselves off from
the blessings of the Priesthood, and forfeited
all claim to the ordinances of the Gospel and
where can you go for comfort and help? The
way of the transgressor is hard, but the way of
the righteous is peace. The wages of sin is
death, the reward of the righteous is life, even
eternal lives. I know that some of my young
sisters would rather marry a young man with
bad habits than one who is religious for fear
he (the religious one) would some time take an-
other wife. Be careful, my sisters. If you
understood the principle of plural marriage
and the destiny of those who practice it in
righteousness you would say with me, thank
God for plural marriage. I bear testimony
to you that plural marriage is a true and holy
principle and that God blesses and acknowl-
edges those who obey it. Although persecution
is heaped upon those who have embraced that
principle at present, it is true and from God,
and He will reward those who endure patiently
all persecution and trials for their religion. Al-
though my husband has been in exile three
and a half years and I have been left alone to
raise my children, and have never once seen
his face in all that time I have never for one
moment regretted entering into plural marriage
and I would rather have my husband in prison,
or in exile, and never see his face again in this
life, than to have him promise to obey the law
even though he would choose me to be his
lawful wife, because I know if we are true to
our covenants we will be associated together
in Eternity and receive all that has been
promised to us. Therefore we can afford to en-
dure persecution for a season and thank God
we are counted worthy to suffer for His cause.
					M. E. TEASDALE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Adveristing rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	JULY 1, 1888.


FREDERICK III OF GERMANY.

	Most of our readers have certainly been inter-
ested in the Emperor Frederick, who so recently
succeeded to the throne,at the death of his father
the Emperor Wilhelm, who had so long reigned
over that vast empire. He died on the 15th of
June ult., at 11 a.m., after a most severe and
lingering illness and intense suffering. Daily
telegrams had kept the people somewhat familiar
with his case, which was a most singular one, in-
deed, and through it all the sublime grandeur of
his character was apparent. It is a matter of
regret that he has been cut down at such a
critical time, when the strength and genius of
such a sovereign would have been, speaking in
the largest sense, the salvation of the people. His
wife, too, had taken an active interest in plans
looking to the uplifting of the women of the
country, which must have resulted in the good of
the whole, for wherever women, in the aggregate,
are refined, cultivated and advanced, men must,
necessarily, be influenced for good. It is scarcely
expected of the Crown Prince, who succeeds the
Emperor, that his policy will be democratic or in
the interest of peace, as he is said to be a warrior-
born, like his illustrious grandfather, and to detest
anything English, even the English blood in his
own veins.
	It is said of Frederick, that he was courageous
when in battle, and that his career as an officer
was brilliant with success, but that "dazzling as
his victories were, his conduct at home won him
still more glory. With his devoted wife, he was
always prominent in measures for the advance-
ment of learning, for the improvement of the
masses, and for the amelioration of the rigors of
despotism." Frederick was himself a thorough
scholar, and had none of the arrogance of the
"old-style aristocrats," and was consequently
unpopular with men of that type. That there has
been genuine sorrow at his death there can be no
room for doubt, for he was truly the friend of the
people, and they loved him sincerely.
	Frederick III was born in 1831, and might have
lived yet many years to benefit his people, had not
a most cruel and fatal disease laid its heavy hand
upon him. Strange it seems, that looking for-
ward, as he naturally must have done, to the time
when he would ascend the throne, that his reign
and rule should have been so brief; and the entire
time one of suffering and pain. But the kings
and mighty ones are in the hands of the Lord,
and He turneth and overturneth at His good wili
and pleasure, and kingdoms and empires are sub-
ject to Him, and He will fulfill His purposes
concerning them in His own due time and way;
and in all things must His hand and His wisdom
be acknowledged.


VISIT TO SANPETE.
	Thursday morning, June 14th, we left this city by
train to attend, by invitation of Sister M. A. Hyde
the Conference of the R. S. Y. L. M. I. A. and
P. A. of Sanpete Stake to be held at Gunnison
Friday and Saturday, June 15 and 16. We arrived at
Manti the same evening, where we had the pleasure
of meeting Sister Hyde, and several other sisters
(acquaintances), who are at present officiating
in the Manti Temple. Sisters Hannah Grover of
Nephi, Rebecca Standring of Lehi, and Lucy B.
Young of St. George, were among the number.
Our visit was very pleasant. Bro. and Sister
Jesson who keep the Temple Hotel, are very kind
and courteous to their guests and make every one
feel as much at home as possible. Early the fol-
lowing morning we started off for Gunnison in
company with Sister Hyde, arriving found the
conference had been opened by Sister Helena
Madsen, Prest. of R. S. at that place. There
was a large congregation assembled and after
some interesting remarks by Prest. Hyde who
presided after her arrival, and some reports from
Presidents of R. S. in the Stake, the meeting ad-
journed with singing and prayer until 2 p.m.
	Afternoon session was occupied in speaking up-
on the various subjects of interest pertaining to 
the work of the Relief Society and its progress
and advancement. Testimonies concerning the 
manifestations seen and heard in the Manti Tem-
ple at the time of its dedication were given in such
an impressive way as to pervade the assembly
with the spirit thereof.  Prest Hyde spoke pro-
phetically upon the signs of the times, alluding to
the prophecies of the past and the condition of 
the world at the present; we had the pleasure of 
addressing the sisters, the subjects being spiritual 
improvement, faith, etc. education, reading, culti-
vation of the heart, and practical duties of home 
and of public life. R. S. Conference adjourned 
about the usual hour until the 14th of September,
when it will be held at Fountain Green.
	There was no meeting held in the evening, but
we had an interesting time, and sat up late con-
versing with Bishop Madson and his wife upon
many things now transpiring in the world as well
as in the midst of the Saints.
	Saturday morning several wagon loads and
buggies containing the sisters arrived in good
time for the meeting from adjacent settlements.
	At 10 a.m. the congregation assembled in the 
Relief Society Hall, which is the largest building 
of the kind we have yet seen, and where the Re-
lief Society Conference was also held. Miss
Stena Willardson, of Ephriam, presided for the 
first time since having been called to the position
of Prest. of the Y. L. M. I. A. of Sanpete Stake. 
She did so with much apparent diffidence being 
new to the situation, although there was no need 
of any hesitation on her part as she is abundantly
qualified and well calculated for the position.
Mayfield Y. L. was reported by Miss Augusta
Anderson; Gunnison, Miss Sarah Metcalf; South
Ward, Manti, Mrs. Matilda Allred; North Ward,
Manti, Mrs. Edith Billings Larsen; Ephriam, 
South Ward, Mrs. Dorcas Christenson. We then 
addressed the young ladies encouraging them in
the pursuit of knowledge and understanding.
	Mrs. M. A Hyde followed with excellent re-
marks and testified in a most solemn manner of 
having been taught the principle of plural marriage
by Joseph Smith, the Prophet, who married her 
to Apostle Orson Hyde in Nauvoo. 
	Mrs. Kjar and Mrs. Alvira Cox, of Manti,
Counselors to Miss Willardson, each spoke a 
short time in an instructive and edifying way. 
These young sisters, and those who reported, each 
and all of them manifested their interest in the 
Gospel and the work of improvement; they spoke
intelligently and in good voice; their manner and 
bearing were well calculated to impress the audi-
ence. 
[Column 2]
	In the afternoon the first speaker was Sister 
Lucy B. Young, who gave a dissertation upon
plural marriage, she has an excellent voice,
and a good gift of language, and is an easy speaker.
After some other remarks etc. the Primary Asso-
ciation of Gunnison had a representation.
	Prest. Stena Willardson made suitable remarks,
expressing her desire to fill the position to which
she had been called. There were a few exercises 
by the children well rendered.
	Mrs. Mary Metcalf, Prest. of the P. A. of Gun-
nison, gave her report and mentioned the chil-
dren's manuscript paper, which they edit once a 
month. The sister who had charge of an adjoin-
ing district reported her labors with the Primary 
in the Fields. After some remarks to the children
the Conference was adjourned by Prest. Stena
Willardson to Sept. 15, at Fountain Green.
	Saturday evening we drove over to Manti with 
Sisters Hyde and Young, where we spent the Sab-
bath very pleasantly and Monday morning went
over to Ephriam where two meetings were held,
one with the Relief Society and another with the 
Primary.
	At the R. S. meeting Prest. Peterson was pres-
ent and spoke a few moments during which time 
he asked the sisters to let their Hall be used to es-
tablish an Academy, where, besides the sciences
and useful branches of knowledge, theology, as the 
Latter-day Saints understand it in the Gospel,
might be taught. Such an academy or college 
in every stake of Zion would have a telling effect 
upon the young people. Prest. Peterson spoke of 
the liberality of the Relief Society; said he re-
ceived 1,000 dollars from the Relief Society, while 
abroad on a mission, to bring home the worthy poor.
	Coun. Sarah Peterson in her remarks said for 
years the sisters had saved their Sunday eggs to 
help bring the poor to Zion; this last year they 
had been donated to the Temple, but for years
they had made cheese in the Society, by putting
the milk together; if a sister only had a quart or 
two quarts of milk in the morning she would bring
it, and by this sort of co-operation much good had
been accomplished.
	The children at the Primary meeting rendered
quite a number of exercises very creditably, and 
the presidents spoke feelingly of the good work
in which they are engaged.
	The meeting was an interesting one and in fact
both the meetings at Ephriam were full of interest
and a good spirit prevailed there as well as at the 
Conference in Gunnison. The evening was passed
with Prest. Peterson and family in conversation 
mostly upon the Temple and kindred subjects and
altogether the visit to Sanpete Stake was a very
satisfactory one.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE series of papers on "The Women of
Utah," commenced in June 1st tissue of the paper
is unavoidably delayed, but we expect to publish
Part III in July 15th No.
	THE Primary Conference was held on Saturday
at the Assembly Hall, Mrs. Ellen C. Clawson
presiding. It is the intention to publish minutes
of this conference in our next issue.
	We wish to say to those who have sent money,
and orders for Primary Hymn Books, and who
cannot understand why they are not forwarded,
that they are not yet bound, but it is confidently
expected they will shortly be ready for sale at the
same price as formerly.
	Letter from Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, who was
appointed at the April Conference to fill the posi-
tion made vacant by the death of "Sister Eliza,"
states she is in the enjoyment of good health, and
she sends love and greeting to the sisters in Zion
and hopes before long to return to her field of
labor here.


LETTBRS from Mrs. M. Isabella Horne to her
family bring word of her safe arrival in England,
and her good health, etc. We are sure the sisters
will be glad to hear of her safety, and will pray
for her, that she may accomplish what she under-
took the journey for, viz., to gather her genealogy,
and return home to perform her labors in the
Temple.
	THE poem, “I Will Answer For My People,”
published in June 1st of the Exponent, and
attributed to the gifted poetess, Sarah E. Car-
michael, we have since been informed was the
production of Mrs. Ida Sutherland, formerly of
this city. We make this correction in justice to
the author, as it was a mistake unavoidably made
on pur part, the two pieces having been sent us on
the same paper, and both credited to Miss
Carmichael. We regret the error very much in-
deed, and especially as the second poem should
have been separate, and entitled, “We Do Not
Call Thee Chieftain.”
	THE Y. L. M. I. A. Conference of this Stake
assembled June 22nd, in the Assembly Hall. in
this city, Mrs. M. A. Freeze presiding. The re-
ports by the young lady presidents were given in
a very intelligent and pleasing manner, and a
good spirit prevailed, and there is every reason to
believe the work of improvement is increasing,
and that success will crown the labors of those
who are so zealously laboring in this field of work
for the advancement of the daughters of Zion. In
the afternoon addresses were made by Dr. Ed.
Isaacson, Mrs. E. B. Wells, Mrs. E. S. Taylor,
Mrs. Mary P. Young and Mrs. M. A. Freeze, and
an adjournment was taken until September.
	THE Relief Society Conference of this Stake
was held in the Assembly Rooms of the 14th
ward, in this city, June 21st, Counselor E. S.
Taylor presiding. There was a good attendance,
and verbal reports from nearly all the wards were
given, which occupied most of the time. In the
afternoon, however, Mrs. Emily S. Richards,
Delegate from Utah to the International Council
and Convention of N. W. S. A. in Washington,
gave a brief review of the representation, and re-
lated some incidents in her experience with the
ladies who assembled there, both of the Council
and the Convention, which followed soon after.
This was a new feature of the conference, and
was especially interesting to the audience. Mrs.
Richards has an uncommon good voice, and a
charming way of telling things; there is no doubt
she made a good impression among the ladies of
that grand Council, and it is a point in favor of
the women of Utah, that they were so ably re-
ported, and by one whose voice could penetrate
the most remote part of the large hall where the
Council was held. At the close of the conference
Counselor Taylor addressed the Sisters on practi-
cal matters pertaining to the organization, and in
a most earnest and effective manner exhorted all
to diligence and faithfulness. Conference was ad-
journed until September.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE NECESSITY OF PRAYER.
	I fully realize that the unexpected duties the
young daughters of Zion are frequently called
upon to perform, remind us that we should always
be prepared, and without we live prayerful lives
we cannot do right. We are different to the world;
they have no revelation to guide them, which we
claim to have, and if we write or say anything
that is not according to truth and righteousness,
those who are over us (being placed there by the
Lord) can soon detect an error, and so can those
in the Church who may read and learn what we
say, for those who do right all see eye to eye.
Let us pray for our brethren and sisters who are
over us in the Lord, who are ever on the watch-
tower, for we are told to do so, and it is, a pleasant


duty for us. The most of the world are against
us, as they have always been against the Church
of God, so let us be friends to each other, trying
to overcome everything wrong, that we may be as
the wise virgins, having oil in our
lamps, not copying after the world. We should
pray in secret. David prayed in secret seven
times a day. If we ask for wisdom, the Lord
“will give it liberally” to those who ask in faith,
and when we need His help to perform any duty
we shall have His Spirit to guide us.
Are we not greatly blessed when we think on
these truths? Our hearts rejoice, and we feel like
shouting for joy. Even those of us who are per-
secuted rejoice and give glory to God for His rich
blessings, and desire to “endure to the end,” for
the reward that is in store for us. We have noble
examples to copy from; the mothers in Israel,
with the “daughters in Zion,” are doing all they
can to inspire us to serve the Lord, that we may,
with His help, fulfil our duties. 		
Then, may we pray for true courage in holding
on to the truth, for,
		“It would be better to fall and rise,
			And limp with an aching sore,
		Than backward slide with downcast eyes, 
			From the bliss which is in store."
						Mary A. Freeze.


CAUTION.
Let him that thinketh he standeth take heed, lest he
fall.—1ST COR., X. 12. 
	Were not these the words of our Great Law-
Giver, who at an early age met the opposing
power?
	What did Herod say when the shepherds
heralded forth the news of a Savior’s birth? He
said, “Search diligently for the young child and
bring me word, that I may go and worship him
also." Then was Herod troubled, and all Jerusa-
lem with him.
	But there was another power, the power which
informed the shepherds of His birth. By this they
were warned of God in dream not to return to
Herod; they departed into their own country
another way; also Joseph and His mother were
warned to take the young child and flee into Egypt
“And be thou there until I bring thee word, for
Herod will seek the young child to destroy him."
	On following up this history, we find the op-
posing power continually on the alert to gain its
point; consequently the Savior’s words were,
“Watch and pray," and again I say unto you
“Watch.” Since these are the last days we are
living in, who can say there is no need of prayer.
Those who do will eventually learn which power
they aid. Do not we learn from holy writ that our
mission on this earth is to learn both the evil
and the good. Did not our mother Eve design
this, when she partook of the forbidden fruit?
	I often think the two great powers called good
and evil, are like the two great elements fire and
water. It is often remarked they are both good
servants, but hard masters. Yet how well both
can be utilized and brought to accomplish great
things by the wisdom which God has given to
mankind.
	You know water will readily quench fire when
in the ascendancy; and again, fire will drive water
into steam, and send it through space when this
advantage is taken. Accordingly, notice the con-
flict, and what do we see? Two great powers in
these elements. Now see how beneficial the re-
sult when brought under control. Our steam ships
and railroads and any amount of machinery is run
by fire and water. Our Bishop says this great
wisdom is given us because we are so near the
millennium or thousand years of rest.
	Well, since man has been given so much wisdom
in matters of science, what may not our Father do
who is at the head of all science?


I think He will be able to bring the two great
powers called good and evil into use, and to His
advantage, as easily as man can do by fire and
water. Did He not say He would make the wrath
of man to praise Him, and the remainder He
would restrain?	
	Never let us, then, be found to murmur or com-
plain of the trials we are called to pass through,
only be ready to meet them with fortitude and a
composed mind, feeling an assurance that the
hand, of God is in it all, and for a wise purpose.
	A revelation was given through the Prophet
Joseph Smith, saying,  "The Lord is angry with
none except those who do not acknowledge His
hand in all things."
							M. E. KIMBALL.
	Salt Lake City, June 22, 1888.


WHAT CONSTITUTES A TRUE WOMAN.

	True womanhood defined, implies—virtue and
purity, love and friendship, truth and sympathy
grace and refinement, modesty and intelligence.
Though her sphere may seem humble,yet she can
make it noble and queenly.  She must live for
those around her, and not for self alone.
It is hers to rear the souls of men.  To form 
the characters of future generations.
	The power of the world lies in her hands.  She
may make it a paradise of bliss, fit for the habita-
tion of the Gods; or she may make it an abode of
shame and misery, the haunt of evil spirits and
demons. ’Tis her privilege, in the holy order of
matrimony, to bless the earth with pure, noble
spirits.  More government lies in her hands than
all the kingdoms, republics, monarchies and
dynasties on earth combined.  Consisting in the
training and moulding of the characters of those
precious souls that God has entrusted into her
care.  For which she will receive reward or pun-
ishment accordingly.   And what is there on earth
more angelic than a pure, modest, chaste, virtu-
ous, benevolent intelligent woman? Or what is
more disgusting, than a haughty, proud, petulant,
shrewish, selfish, demoralized one? It is a duty
that each woman owes to her family and to society
—to be cheerful and pleasant, courteous and
friendly, neat and cleanly in her personal habits.
Paying some regard to the cultivation of taste
and refinement. Being careful and choice of the
language she uses at all times. Yet it is by no
means her duty to keep up with the times in re-
gard to fashion. No true woman can afford to do
that at the risk of neglecting the moral, intellectu-
al and religious training of herself and family.
Life is not long enough for much spare time. She
must make the best use of it possible and then
perhaps at the“end”of mortality we may see much
left undone.
	Each young lady should have her model selected
from the noblest of God’s daughters, who have
done a good work on earth, emulating their good
qualities and omitting all evil.  Living, as we do,
in a time when the gospel is restored to earth in
full power, we are expected to shine with far more
brilliant lustre than we otherside would be, and
we will be held accountable thrice over for the
time we use to no good. And an hundred-fold
punishment will be given us for the time we spend
in idle gossip and the many evils resulting there
from. “But let our conversation be yea, yea, nay
nay.” That is to treat of facts, “for what is more
than that cometh of evil.” In all our social circles
let each one strive, or aim, to gain a higher plane
of intelligence. Never for one moment, encourag-
ing the least thought of vulgarity, much less to
give utterance to the same. Society is necessary
in its own place, but like all other good, it has its
uses and abuses, either to exalt or to deprave.
	Again, true woman will not live for immediate
surroundings. It is hers to visit homes of the
poor and afflicted, the outcast and despairing, and
in her benign way impart words of comfort and


encouragement; which is as divine a mission as
to bind the bleeding wounds of the soldiers after
a battle. Even to bind the wounded hearts that
droop and die around us every day. Who by
one kind word might take courage and resolve to
become useful in doing good on earth. Thus she
might prove herself to be
		"Yet a spirit still and bright,
		With something  of an angel Light."
	She must also keep her home bright and cheery.
Be pleasant and companionable to her family.
Thus might she keep her father and
brothers, her husband and sons from haunts of
vice and corruption, and, by wielding her holy in-
fluence in the right direction win back the lost
ones to light and love. Then let us say no more
that woman has no work to do, no mission to per-
form! Let men boast of their strength and power,
yet the world could not progress one step farther
without the aid of woman. And though she, in
the estimation of law is placed below negroes and
Chinamen still she has a powerful influence for
good if 'tis but wielded in the right direction.
	I would say to the daughters of Zion, be humble
and prayerful in order to retain the Holy Spirit to
direct our minds our words our deeds, that we
may be worthy the name of true, noble, women
—daughters of God.
							TRUTH.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PRIMARY CELEBRATION.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	As Montpelier is seldom heard from, I thought I
would write a few lines in behalf of our Primary 
Association, which is progressing under the able
management of Sister Ann Bunney, who labors
unceasingly in its interests; she, with the help of 
her assistants, is doing much good among the
children.
	On the morning of the 1st of June there might 
have been seen fifteen vehicles, loaded with child-
ren and accompanied by a number of the parents,
on our way to the Preston Grove, where we met
with the Preston Primary Associaton for the pur-
pose of celebrating the birthday of President
Brigham Young.
	It was especially planned for the enjoyment of 
the children, and all who participated enjoyed
themselves very much. 
	The forenoon exercises consisted of songs,
recitations and dialogues from the children, which
were all rendered in a very creditable manner;
also appropriate speeches from Bishop Dalrymple 
and Bro. Osborn. 
	Then came a time of feasting for the children
on the good things prepared for them. 
	The afternoon was spent in swinging, fishing,
boat-riding, ball-playing, games, children running
races for candy, etc.
	Everything went off very pleasantly, and at five
o'clock all prepared to return home, after having 
spent a very enjoyable day. 
					ALMIRA HOLMES, Sec.
	Montpelier, Idaho.


[Column 1]
﻿WOMAN’S VOICE.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Once more I take up the pen to give a few
items to sisters and friends, which I hope may
find room in some of my sisters’ and friends’
hearts, that they may see that the Saints up
here are yet alive.
	The weather has been pleasant since winter 
left us, though we had a very bitter cold winter.
The Saints up here are trying to live the princi-
ples of their religion. Our Relief Society is
doing well. We are not behind in the enter-
prise of human intelligence in this place; we 
have the Y. L. M. I. A. meetings every week,
and we also have the Primary Association. We

[Column 2]
have a noble Bishop —James Thomas—with
his Counselors, who visit our meetings and give 
us good instructions.
	Having found in our WOMAN’S EXPONENT
many helpful hints about housekeeping and
practical plans to lighten labor, as well as
sensible suggestions on all subjects of interest
to wives and mothers, I feel inclined to add a 
little for the possible benefit of some of the
busy women, who partake at odd intervals of 
the wholesome mental dishes served by the 
EXPONENT. Especially do I wish to address
those who are over-loaded with household cares,
like myself, too poor to keep help, and yet by 
nature always willing to work, even to over-
work one’s self.
	I have read, and will never forget, that
woman’s life is an endless warfare with work,
and it overcomes us at last. This has led me 
to thinking of the folly of giving up to the 
work, and doing a great injustice to ourselves
and others in keeping up with all our might
this contest, until it finally overcomes us; and 
how unsatisfactory the result, that when at 
last our work is done, the best that may be 
said of us will be, “She was a model house-
keeper.” When I was a young housekeeper I 
did not have much to keep house with, like
many others in early days; we had to work
hard to get things to keep house with; work 
with energy of mind and body. In those days 
there was not much piano playing or buggy 
riding, though I do not begrudge any one their
pleasure. 
I do not wish to be understood as advocating
any unjust claim in these regards, but only 
wish to draw a line between essentials, and non-
essentials; an imaginary line it must be, as
each of us can best decide for ourselves what 
is in our homes. At the time to which I re-
fer, my circumstances, sometimes, permitted
me to have a girl to help me. In these latter
years I recall with real pain the hard work
that I have done. This lesson has given me
some gains for my loss; one of them is the true
view of the question of what part of my work
is really necessary to the general welfare of
myself and family, and what other part may
be omitted. Indispensible work takes more of 
my time than I can afford to give.
	I would ask my sisters, who, like myself, 
perhaps, have been severely taught mentally
and morally at the same time, give ourselves
some rest, even if less work is done. It seems 
often to arise in my mind as a complete ques-
tion, as we have been gifted with one, five, or 
ten talents, have we any right to bury them,
or should we not try to improve these talents
which our Heavenly Father has given unto us?
I admit that I have not used or improved my 
talent as I ought, and should have done, but 
there are excuses, under circumstances in 
which we are sometimes placed through life,
where we cannot always help ourselves; we 
should try to manage our talents, and brighten
and refine ourselves, and our religious duties we
must not neglect.
	It is wise to give a large share of our time
to the preparation for our future treasury for
our spirit, and it is also right to make our
home as comfortable with our children as possi-
ble as lies in our power, but yet, if we in the
doing of all this, consume the time that should
be used in sleep, are we doing our highest duty
towards ourselves and family? This life seems
to me too short for us to be so largely given up 
to the requirements of the body. If parents
would but place this matter before their child-
ren as they grow up, that they might do better
than we have done, instead of gaining worldly
wealth, that perishes with the flames. And in
order that we may be prepared to satisfy our
minds and hearts with wholesome food, we
must take time for proper remedy in our duties;
if we don’t clothe our souls and body in accord
we are placed under more suffering; we must,

[Column 3]
as mothers, have some quiet alone to read, 
think and plan for ourselves and our children; 
I know for my part that I need to study and
pray continually, in order to comply with the
work that must be done, both temporally and
spiritually, but yet with my management there
have been years in which I have not had hard-
ly any rest or sleep, having been so over-worked
that my body actually could not rest, and then
the children needed some assistance, and I 
never felt like imposing upon their right, for 
my conscience would not allow me to rest, but
to attend to my duty toward them, and their
tender feelings; thus, my time and hours of 
rest have often been postponed altogether. 
	I have yet a lesson to learn, how to use and
not waste my time and strength, and have 
learned that it never pays to overwork our
nature; system, order and truthfulness are all
important, nor can we hope to plant such habits
in the minds of our sons and daughters except
by good examples; these will be remembered
longer yet we must not forget that this lesson 
must be taught at the fireside, as well as in our
own home, and this is the experience which I 
have drawn from the foregoing: We are rob-
bing our own children and ourselves of what
is worth far more to them and us than we can
estimate. Let us beware, lest we put cleanli-
ness before Godliness. In regarding this ques-
tion in a pure predicted light, it certainly does
not pay to allow our consciences to absorb our 
whole time and strength. The broken health
of the mother of a home and family, involves,
sometimes, years of increased expense, and, in
many directions besides, the inevitable loss from
waste and mismanagement.
	If we are immoderately fond of our house-
keeping during the first years of our children, 
by the time they have reached the learning 
point between youth and maturity, we are
broken-down, fretful invalids, totally unfitted
to be to them what we should wish to be, their
companions and helpers through this very im-
portant period of their lives, and how can we
say that we are doing our duties as mothers?
Sons, as well as daughters, are safest who make
confidents of mothers; they will do if mothers
have taken time to listen to their wants, and 
taken a lively interest in their affairs, great
and small. This is one investment that pays.
	R. POND. 
Eagle Rock, Idaho, May 18, 1888.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

			SNOWFLAKE STAKE.	
	The quarterly conference of this Stake was
held at Snowflake June 1st, 1888, Prest. 
Emma S. Smith presiding.
	Sisters Sarah Driggs, Emily J. Lewis, Mary
A. Standifird and Mary J. West made instruc-
tive remarks on various subjects of interest.
	Jemima W. Smith was set apart as Stake
Treasurer by Prest. Jesse N. Smith. Statistical
and financial reports were then read. The
officers of the Stake and of the different ward
societies were presented and sustained by a 
unanimous vote.
	Bros. Joseph H. Richards and Lorenzo H.
Hatch also addressed the conference. Ex-
pressed pleasure in meeting with the sisters,
and felt grateful for the good spirit that had
prevailed. Counseled the mothers to teach
their children the principle of faith.
	Prest. Emma S. Smith made a few closing 
remarks, after which conference adjourned for
six months. Singing. Benediction pronounced
by Prest. Jesse N. Smith.
			DELLA FISH, Stake Secretary.

			EMERY STAKE.
	The semi-annual conference of the Relief 
Society of Emery Stake was held Friday,
April 20, 1888, at Castle Dale.


[Column 1]﻿
	At 10 o’clock the meeting was opened by
the singing of the Castle Dale choir, and prayer
was offered by Stake President C. G. Larsen.
The minutes of previous conference read by the
Secretary and unanimously accepted. Sister
Kathinka Andersen was unanimously sustained
as minute clerk of the conference. The re-
ports of the several wards were read, and ex-
hibited the several branches in a lively condi-
tion. The poor had received a liberal share of
the generous donations from the sisters.
	Sister Anna Larsen, the President of the
Relief Society of the Stake, expressed her
happiness for the blessed opportunity of meet-
ing once more with the sisters of Emery Stake
in our semi-annual conference, and that every-
thing around smiled in favor upon us. There
had been considerable whooping-cough and
other sickness, but few deaths among the
children, but it was now getting better. She
desired all the Secretaries to be present, to get
an understanding of the correct way of making
up the reports, as many did not comprehend
this difficult labor, and thereby caused a good
deal of unnecessary trouble for the Stake
Secretary.
	Sister Avery, of Huntington, Mary Olsen;
of Ferron, Ellen Robertson of Orangeville, and
Stine Olsen of Castle Dale, each gave a report
of the Society over which she presided, and
stated that all was well; the sisters were able to
aid in the good of relief and spread of benevo-
lence and comfort all around, and much good
had already been realized from these organiza-
tions in the different wards, by visiting the sick
and alleviating wants.
	Sister Shomaker gave a report of Molen
Ward; said all was well there, and the sisters
were united in their good works.
	Sister Childs, First Counselor to the Stake
President, said she never felt better than to-
day, and wished she could say the same six
months hence, because our path seems often
strewn with troubles and trials. “We should
try to live honest and upright before God,
fast and pray, that the Lord might hear us in
the hour of darkness. We should cultivate
purity of heart, that is the costly jewel for
Latter-day Saints, even if the outward appear-
ance is not so attractive; we may be like a
plain bound book filled with good instructions,
while sometimes a finely ornamented volume
may contain entirely unwholesome, or even
poisonous reading. As mothers, we should
study our children, and adopt the best and
most effectual plans to raise them in the fear of
God, and always keep them under that
power.”
	Conference adjourned until 2 p.m. Choir
sang. Benediction by C. G. Larsen, Jr.
	Afternoon session, 2 p.m.: Opened with
singing, Prayer by Bishop Henning Olsen.
	Sister Pulsipher, of Huntington, Second
Counselor to the Stake President, was the first
speaker. She felt happy for the privilege of
meeting with the sisters on this occasion. We
had no reason to fear neither the Edmunds-
Tucker bill nor any other measure aiming at
our overthrow, if we only keep near God. As
President Woodruff says in the Epistle to the
Saints, ‘This organization of the sisters is for
the purpose of cheering each other, and to
visit the sick and aid the poor, and the more
we do of this, the more abundant will be our
blessings.’ Good instructions given by mothers
to the children will stay by them so they can
go to both Primaries and other meetings and
they will behave well and be benefited.”
	Several of the sisters joined in a faithful
testimony concerning the great Latter-day
work, and their joys in the cause of Relief.
	Prest. C. G. Larsen next addressed the
meeting. Was pleased for the honor conferred
upon him, to occupy a short time; was very
favorably impressed by the minutes read of

[Column 2]
conference six months ago, and wished they
had been printed. “It is proper and right that
we should represent ourselves through our
papers, and the sisters had their own paper—
the Woman’s Exponent—where they can be
heard from, and we should support that paper,
and hand in our contributions to the same.
The noble sisters will yet rule the world with
their great influence as mothers, and many of
them will be sent as ambassadors from Zion, to
invite the good and upright to join in their
labor of kindness and love, because there are
yet as good fish in the brook as has been
brought out from there. Woman suffrage has
of late been much ventilated East, but it
would be a blessing for any nation to give the
women a voice at the polls, as surely less vice
and corruption, drunkenness and debauchery
would exist, and such men would not be placed
in authority to rule over people, who often now
are much better than their rulers.” Concluded by
asking heaven’s choicest blessing to rest upon
the sisters of Emery Stake and their noble
work.
	Several more of the brethren and sisters
present added their testimonies and experiences
in the Church of Christ.
	On motion Kathinka Andersen was unani-
mously sustained as Assistant to the Stake
Secretary, and was set apart to this office by
Prest. C. G. Larsen.
	Prest. Anne Larsen made the closing re-
marks by expressing her satisfaction with all
we had done during this conference, for all the
good counsels and encouragement we had re-
ceived, and hoped we might gather strength for
the time coming, and to remember the poor
and suffering, and try to warm every heart with
the sunshine of love and sympathy. “This is
our mission, and may we all honor it.”
	Conference was then adjourned until October
20th, at Orangeville. Benediction was pro-
nounced by John Jensen.

KATHINKA ANDERSEN, Ass't Sec.
BANNOCK STAKE.
	Minutes of the quarterly conference of
the Relief Society of Bannock Stake, which
convened in Rexburg Hall, May 18, 1888,
Prest. Temperance Hinkley presiding. Meeting
opened by singing. Prayer by Coun. Telitha
Helm. Singing, “Glorious things are sung of
Zion.” Roll called, and minutes of previous
conference read and approved.
	Sister Sarah Holman, First Coun. of Rex-
burg Society, reported that Society as doing
well. Asked God to bless the Relief Society
with unity, that it may be able to do much for
the advancement of this great work.
	Coun. Henriette Dudley, of Teton, said the
majority of the sisters in her ward had small
families, and it was hard for them to get out to
meetings, and bore a faithful testimony.
	Prest. Louisa Butler, of Lyman, said her
Society was in a prosperous condition, and bore
her testimony.
	Sister Caroline Jacobs, of Salem, said the
sisters of that ward were trying to live their
religion and train their children aright.
	Prest. Orrissa Brower, of Wilford, said they
felt like going forward and performing their
duties better in the future, and asked the bless-
ings of the Lord to rest upon all.
	Prest. T. Helm, of Burton, said the sisters
there were doing well considering their num-
bers, which were few. “There is a good at-
tendance, and all feel to help one another.”
	The statistical and financial reports were
read, showing that the different branches in the
Stake were in a good condition.
	Stake Prest. Temperance Hinkley addressed
the conference. Expressed her approbation of
the work of the Society, and felt pleased to see
so many trying to perform their duties. “We
should be strictly disciplined in the government

[Column 3]
of God, and bring up our children to be an
honor to us. We should teach them by ex-
ample to attend their meetings; we should send
them to Primary, Sunday School and fast
meetings, for there they get the spirit of testi-
mony. We should be prayerful and humble,
that the Lord may pour down His blessings
upon us. If we would be united and do our
duties we would have no time to backbite each
other.”
	Sister Zina D. H. Young told us we should
not quench the Spirit of God, “and evil speak-
ing of each other helps to quench the good
Spirit.” Bore a strong testimony to the truth
of the Gospel, and asked that the blessings of
the Lord might rest on the sisters of the Relief
Society. Would like all to help build a Stake
house. Sister Young bore her testimony, and
gave many good and timely instructions.
	Stake Coun. Telitha J. Helm exhorted the
mothers to be united, and prize their children
above all the riches of the earth. “The Lord
gave them to us pure, and if we don’t bring
them up as we should do, the Lord will hold
us accountable for it. This is a great and
glorious work, and I am thankful that I was
permitted to come down in this last dispensa-
tion of the fulness of times.” Urged the neces-
sity of living pure lives, and be prepared to go
to the temples of God, and do our work for
our dead. “If any one is falling from the faith,
speak to them with all humility and kindness,
and help them climb the hill of perfection; or
if any one is cast down, cheer them up. Asked
God to bless the sisters and unite them as one, 
for in unity there is strength.
	Sister Sarah A. Barnes had felt greatly in-
terested in the good reports, and the instruc-
tions we had received. “I think they have
sunk deep into the hearts of all present, to
grow and blossom in future time. I was pleased
with the instructions given us in regard to the
rearing of our precious jewels God has blessed
us with. Being the President of the Primary,
I take great interest in the advancement of
our children. I think there is no greater
work than with the children; we should teach
them to live for something beyond this world,
to make their aim high, and strive to reach
it. We should improve our talents and educate
ourselves, for the Lord has said we never can
be saved in our ignorance.”
	The Stake and local officers, as they stand,
were unanimously sustained.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Closed by singing, “Arise, oh, glorious Zion.”
Benediction by Sister Sarah A. Barnes.
SARAH A. BARNES, Stake Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


ECONOMY OF STRENGTH.

	We frequently read long articles on economy
of time and of material, but where one woman
is obliged to not only furnish the brain to di-
rect, but also the hand to execute all the work
of a household, there is great need for her to 
study economy of strength.  Upon her depends,
in a great measure, the health, comfort and 
happiness of her family and the enjoyment of
her guests.
	Although her house is in perfect order and 
her meals served in the best possible manner,
if she is herself all "fagged out," the home will
lack an important element of comfort.
	"But," I hear some one say, "the work is to 
be done, and I must do it."  Yes, but why
not work in the easiest way—saving all the
 labor you can, teaching others to save for you
and planning each day for a resting time.
Why should the farmer's wife rise early and 
work straight through the long, hot summer
day, while the farmer, his hired men, and even
the horses and oxen must have the noon hour
to rest, to lie under the shade of the trees, per-
haps, to take a little nap.  They know they


[Column 1]
can work better for this rest, and it is right
that they should have it.  Why does not the
busy housewife need it just as much?  Too
often, all the rest she allows herself is when she
sits down to soothe a fretting baby, and then
her mind is busy thinking of the work yet to
be done, and actually continuing her toil
through her imagination, thus robbing herself
of the little rest she might have gained.
     Much strength can be saved by wise and
systematic planning—by doing everything in
the easiest way, when no one will be the loser
thereby.
     Of course, there are many kinds of house-
hold work that cannot be slighted, but there
are others that can.  It is a step in the right
direction if, when ironing day comes, the 
sheets, pillow-cases and towels being neatly
folded, a board laid on top and a weight
placed on that, they are left to iron themselves.
All the common, every-day underclothing can
be quickly smoothed, all that is necessary, by
ironing on one side, and if some wrinkles are
left in they will not do any harm.  It is better
that they be in the clothes than on the house-
mother’s brow.  I know one of the neatest of
housekeepers who told me that in the summer
she irons all her sheets, pillow-cases, towels
and plain pieces by sitting out under a tree
and running them, nicely folded, through her
clothes wringer.
     One thoughtful woman says: “I have pasted
on my sewing machine this query: “Is it neces-
sary or really beautiful? Is it worth my time,
strength and thought?” Since I have measured
my sewing by that rule, it is surprising how all
tucks, ruffles and superfluous stitches have
vanished, and not only strength saved at the 
sewing machine, but also at the wash-tub and 
ironing table.”
	Do not spend so many of the beautiful,
summer days in a hot kitchen making jellies
and preserves, Plain, canned fruit is much
more healthful, and takes so much less time to 
prepare.
     If the fruit must be bought, it is just as
cheap to buy it ready canned and frequently
substitute the fresh fruits which can be so
cheaply bought in the winter, since cold storage
and fast fruit-trains have been in operation.
     No one will be the sufferer if jellies and
preserves are stricken entirely from the bill of
[-]are, and the already overburdened housekeeper
will be the gainer.
     Not only should every housekeeper regard it
as a duty to save herself all the work possible,
but if she would make the most and the best 
of herself, she must have a fixed purpose to
give herself an hour of quiet rest every day,
and to take at least a part of that rest lying
down.  I know many women will look upon 
the idea of lying down in the day-time as
wholly absurd and impracticable, but I wish
those who find the daily round of household
cares and duties becoming almost unbearable,
and who go to their beds every night with 
aching back, tired heads and weary feet,
would try this plan.  I am satisfied that they
would soon find it economy in more ways than
one.  Nature will not bear everything, and if
we continue to carry burdens far beyond our
strength, a breaking down will surely come at 
last and rest be enforced.  It may be the long
 and dreamless rest.
     If you cannot take the hour all at once,
take it part in the forenoon after the hurry of
morning work is done, and part in the after-
noon before getting supper.  If there is a baby
to be nursed, lie down with it, persistently shut
the work away, and, if possible, fall asleep
yourself for a few minutes.  One rests so
much faster lying down than in any other posi-
tion.
     What if some neighbor happens to come in 
and find you lying down, and straightway re-
ports you “shiftless?” If you find that you can do

[Column 2]
your work easier and better in this way, be
brave enough to do what seems right to you.
I know how this is.  Well I remember the long,
hot summers when I denied myself much needed
rest, and for fear of what others might say,
toiled on until it seemed to me the kinder idea
of heaven was the most blissful one, until the 
very sound of my children’s voices was a posi-
tive pain to me.  But, thanks to one of the 
best of husbands, who insisted that because
others were working themselves to death was 
no reason that I should, I have found a better
way, and would gladly lead all tired workers
to see the value of economizing their strength
and giving themselves the hour of rest, if they
would keep their faithful hands on the house-
hold wheels, and not lay down their work half
done for some other hand to finish.—The Farm
and Fireside.
MAIDA McL.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Mrs. Garfield has given $10,000 to the Gar-
field University at Wichita.

	A Hindoo Girls’ High School has been
started at Allahabad.  It has already more
than a hundred pupils.

	Certain Frenchwomen are about to found a
scientific review, La Revue Scientifique des
Femmes.  The directors are already chosen.  A
lady who is a physician to the sultan’s seraglio
is a corresponding member.  The editor is Mme.
Renoz, a Belgian.

	Mrs. Gage, chairman of the executive com-
mittee N. W. S. A., especially urges the vice
presidents to attend immediately to the matter
of writing to the delegates from their districts
to the remaining political conventions, urging
their favorable action upon the memorial
which will be presented to them by the Nation-
al W. S. A.

	The late Emperor of Germany disliked to
hear any one speak slightingly of women.
When he was Crown Prince, an officer once re- 
marked of  a wounded comrade that he was
“weeping like a woman ” “Never make that
comparison,” said the Crown Prince with a
frown. “Crying like an unweaned child would
be better.  Women have more fortitude than
men.”

	Mrs. Emily Crawford, the Paris correspond-
ent of the London Daily News and of the N.
Y. Tribune, who has accomplished some re-
markable feats in journalism, was asked the
other day by a commissioner of the Pall Mall
Gazette, “What is the best way to attain excel-
lence in journalism, and to keep it?” She an- 
swered. “To be very genuine, and to keep be-
tween two poles—eternity and the present mo-
ment.  Do not pester about to-morrow or the
next day.  Go at the business on hand; and
rise above the accidental and all-debasing en-
vironments, by doing your best and then fold-
ing your arms like a fatalist.  We lose so
much force in not being frank and genuine; we
worry so much and to no purpose, in not leav-
ing Providence or Fate a very big place in our
calculations."
	Florence Nightingale says, in a recent letter:
“Without women there can be no domestic
hygiene.  The finest principles and works of
sewerage, water supply and ventilation must,
without the housewife, almost remain a dead-
letter.  But let her be practically instructed
how to keep air, earth and water pure, and to
admit light into her house, and the health and
life-giving machinery is complete.” The As-
sociation of Collegiate Alumnae, among its
other good works, founded a Sanitary Science
Club, which has instructed a number of young
women in this important subject, and has


brought out a little book giving practical hints
on domestic hygiene.  Miss Marion Talbot,
secretary of the Collegiate Alumnae; makes a
specialty of this subject, and has given a val-
uable course of lectures upon it to the young
women at Wellesley and elsewhere.—Ex.


IN MEMORIAM.

	DIED, at her home in Richfield, Sevier Co., Utah, April
16, 1888, after a short illness, Sister Anne Kathrine Poulson,
beloved wife of Bro. C. Poulson, and daughter of J. C.
and Martha M. Outzen.  She leaves a hushand and six
children and numerous relatives and friends to mourn her
loss.
	In behalf of the sisters of the Relief Society, of which
she was a faithful member, we extend our heartfelt sym-
pathy to the bereaved family and friends.  She has proved
herself to be a loving wife, a kind mother, and devoted to
the cause of truth.  May we emulate her example.
				J. M. CHRISTENSEN, Prest. R. S.,
				MARIA HANSEN, Secretary.

	DIED, at her home in Richfield, Sevier Co., Utah, May
25, 1888, Sister Mary Ann Orrock, beloved wife of Bro.
W. C. B. Orrock, and daughter of William and Mary
Ogden.  Deceased was born in Hallith Wood, Lancashire,
England, Dec. 26, 1846.  She leaves a husband and seven
children, besides a numerous host of relatives and friends
to mourn her loss.
	She was an exemplary woman, a devoted mother and
loving wife, and a consistent Latter-day Saint, and we, in
behalf of the sisters of the Relief Society, to which she
belonged, extend our sympathy to the bereaved family,
and deeply feel her loss.
				J. M. CHRISTENSEN, Prest. R. S.,
				MARIA HANSEN, Secretary.


R.K. THOMAS

EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail 
Cash House.

R.K.THOMAS

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
