Vol. 17.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 1, 1889.	No. 15.


NEW YEAR'S MORNING.

Only a night from Old to New! 
	Only a night-and so much wrought !
The Old Year's heart all weary grew, 
	But said, "The New Year rest has brought."
The Old Year's heart its hopes laid down,
	As in a grave; but, trusting, said:
"The blossoms of the New Year's crown 
	Bloom from the ashes of the dead."
The Old Year's heart was full of greed;
	With selfishness it longed and ached,
And cried: "I have not half I need,
	My thirst is bitter and unslaked.
But to the New Year's generous hand 
	All gifts in plenty shall return;
True loving, it shall understand,
	By all my failures it shall learn.
I have been reckless: it shall be 
	Quiet and calm and pure of life.
I was a slave: it shall go free,
	And find sweet peace where I leave strife."

Only a night from Old to New!
	Never a night such changes brought.
The Old Year had its work to do;
	No New Year miracles are wrought. 
Always a night from old to new!
	Night and the healing balm of sleep!
Each morn is New Year's morn come true,
	Morn of a festival to keep.
All nights are sacred nights to make 
	Confession and resolve and prayer;
All days are sacred days to wake 
	New gladness in the sunny air.
Only a night from old to new;
	Only a sleep from night to morn.
The new is but the old come true;
	Each sunrise sees a new year born!
									H. H.


HOLIDAY THOUGHTS

When the sacred books are opened,
	The books the angels keep--
While we talk and while we listen,
	While we work and while we sleep,
How different many, many things
	Will in those books appear,
To the way we understand them
	And oft repeat them here.

Some sad mistakes of mine, while I
	On others cast the blame;
Some harsh, uncalled for words I've said,
	Will make me blush with shame;
Where charity for self I've claimed,
	To others been unjust,
Or nursed unkindly feelings,
	Instead of patient trust,

How wistfully I then will turn
	From my poor blotted leaf,
To the full, untarnished record
	Of Christ, our matchless Chief!
With what unspeakable delight
	We'll revel long and deep,
If priviledged to read the books
	Recording angels keep!

What glorious truths will then unfold,
	With meaning plain and clear,
Which, to our untrained natures,
	Oft seem mysterious here.
"The Holy Family" shall I meet,
	When freed from mortal strife,
And find my name recorded in
	The Lamb's great Book of Life?


My friends beloved, and neighbors,
	This day, while yet I live,
Please grant my boon, say that my faults
	You	one and all forgive;
That should I find few joyous things,
	At least I may not weep,
When the sacred books are opened,
	The Books the angels keep !
								LULA


AUNT POLLY’S LETTER.

DEAR HOMESPUN:
	My first letter written to you on Aug. 10th,
was in fulfilment of a long cherished promise
to myself, and since eagerly perusing your
reply, memory has been busy with reminis-
cences you so vividly awaken; in retrospective
revery I recall each particular detail, and can
also picture quite plainly the improvements,
which must certainly have quite transformed
the rather depressing pretense of the old rooms,
in the days when I knew them. I remember
well the aged sofa, huddled in its musty depths
I read with joyous haste the first letters from
my dear home, after the long, heart sick jour-
ney; with tearful joy I sat for hours conning
and re-reading the loving words dictated by
anxious, affectionate hearts; there, too, side by
side with the natives of that land I have
struggled with the seeming impossibilities of 
their language, in our mutual endeavors to make
ourselves understood; and Sister Maggie Cluff—
I cannot think of my island life only in con-
nection with her—she it was whose kindly 
womanly kiss was the first to greet my lips 
after the parting embrace of my gentle mother,
and our last farewell was taken as she bade
"alolia" to those among whom she had so faith-
fully labored, and whose hearts she had so
kindly won; and I well remember the first
knowledge I had of her departure from earth,
was in recognition of her picture in your own
lines, entitled, “My Dead Friend,” written
soon after her death.	
	Memory also recalls the rides and rambles
among the luxurious fern foliage, in search of
orange groves, and lime trees, and on one oc-
casion a recently arrived missionary desired
the escort of an initiated sister, as guide to the
enticing groves, where the luscious fruit hung
in tempting plentitude, to the hungry imagina-
tion of a long-suffering appetite. The horses
were duly led to the door, equipped with
Spanish saddles, one of which the lady de-
clared her intention of riding in true native
fashion; with painful blushes and embarrassed
apologies the modest missionary disappeared
around the corner of the house, while the lady
with becoming grace mounted her steed and
laughingly called to her companion to forget
his discomforture in pursuit of delicious fruit
and beautiful scenery. Alack and alas for
manly prudishness! I wot not he hides his face
now at trifles, after a second sojourn under
tropical suns amidst those dusky children of
nature.
	I used to think so little ever happened to
us there, so monotonously the time passed
away, but now I remember many pleasant occur-
rences, and some happenings, too, the memory
of which is tinged with sadness and regret,
but even so much our life’s lessons be taught,
and the present will be richer in content, by
remembering the brightness and joys we have


had, while the shadows remain in the obscuri-
ties of the past, as much as may be.
	With alolia nui to your brave workers, I
am,
							AUNT POLLY.
	Dec. 16, 1888.


CHRISTMAS THOUGHTS.

	The beautiful story of the birth of Christ,
and of the shepherds keeping watch over their
flocks by night, the earnest looking out for the
star in the East, to welcome Him, all these
historical events, and others therewith con-
nected, cannot be too strongly impressed upon
the minds of our little ones.
	To many of the children nowadays, Christ-
mas is simply “Santa Claus,” who brings them
toys and sweetmeats, and the birth of Christ
never enters into their minds; the cause of the
rejoicing is never told them in a way they can
understand. They do not know why "peace
and good will” prevails, they have not heard
the incidents of the birth of the Messiah,
which all this social festivity commemorates.
	"The hallowed anthem sent to hail
	Bethlehem’s shepherds in the lonely vale,
	When Jordan hushed his waters, and midnight still
	Watched on the holy towers of Zion's hill."
is all Greek to them.
	The gathering together of friends and of
families at this season gives it a prestige and
importance that is real to the children, and
they know and feel that the day and the time
is significant, but they know not why and the
lesson is lost to them, that might otherwise be
fraught with good fruits.
	The legend of Santa Claus is a very pretty
illusion, but it falls far short of the exquisite
tenderness of the story of the true origin of
Christmas. The custom of giving gifts at
Christmas had no doubt its beginning in the
giving of gifts at the birth of Christ.  The
wise men of the East, who had seen the star of
Bethlehem, came and opened their treasures,
and presented unto the newly-born babe “gifts,
gold and frankincense and myrrh;” and this
example has been followed—of giving, and the
practice perpetuated from generation to genera-
tion, and it is right and proper that we should
fulfill the saying of our blessed Lord: "Inas-
much as ye do it unto one of these my little
ones, ye do it unto me.” We have not the
privilege of giving to the royal Prince of the
house of David, but we all have the precept
of our Master to teach us to give our good
gifts in the season thereof, and if we do this in
obedience and reverence, and that we may be
like unto Him, we should not fall short of the
blessing.
	The poor are at the Christmas season the
especial recipients of the bounties of the rich--
and there are many who quiet their consciences
by so doing; but is this all? Does this cover
the ground? Is there not something we owe 
to each other besides the simple act of giving!
Christ’s coming proclaimed “peace and good
will,” which does not always follow the giving
of precious gifts; it is often very easy to give,
when kindness and love would be infinitely
more of a sacrifice, and more acceptable unto
Him, who gave Himself a sacrifice greater than
any we can make. Is it not very often like
the prayer of the Pharisee, to be seen of men?
Let us hope not, but is there not a spiritual
lesson for us all to learn by the observance of


[Column 1]
the Christmas season, as well as to feast upon 
the good things of the earth and laugh and be
merry withal.
	It is a time of sentiment, a season of affec-
tion, when we recall the past, and don the
garment of love, in  which occasionally we find
sad rents have been made. There are changes
in our lives that seem more apparent when the
heart is awakened by the ringing music of the
present, and we find "parts unfilled and voices
wanting," and we find ourselves involuntarily
saying,

"Would they were with us still!"

Such feelings will arise even though we are in
the midst of gaiety, and we unwillingly and
unwittingly contrast the past with the present,
and thoughts of the loved and lost, the distant
and the dead" come something like,

"A pall—
And a gloom o'ershadowing the banquet hall,
And a mark on the floor as of life-drops spilt,"

darkens the joyousness and the revelries of 
the merry Christmas time. So many changes
have the years brought, that the words of the
poet come home with a deep and awful mean-
ing.

"A change he may find there, and many a change!
Faces and footsteps and all things strange!
Gone are the heads of the silvery hair,
And the young that were, have a brow of care,
And the place is hushed where the children played!"

Now to me the children are the ones to be
first considered at Christmas; it is the birth of
a child we celebrate, and we are told that the
kingdom of heaven is likened unto a little
child, and also, that unless we become thus
meek and lowly we cannot enter there; but
these are solemn thoughts, that we cannot al-
ways cast aside, not even for the children's 
sake, and tho' Christmas brings merriment
and good cheer, it has also its sober side, and
no picture is complete without it. If we al-
ways reveled in sunshine we would never know
how lovely the twilight was, and the darkness 
in which we grope at midnight, makes us ap-
preciate more fully the dawn of the new-born
day. Children feast themselves at Christmas
time, and romp, and play, and laugh, and sing,
and dance, and sometimes even grow weary 
with excess of gladness and exuberance of
spirits. It is well, methinks, to mingle a little
soberness with all this festivity and joyousness,
and to relate a story that will touch them in a 
tender place cannot be amiss, if it will teach
them to feel another's woe.
	I promised to write a story for the children,
and I am almost sorry that I did, but I like to 
keep my word, and so I will, even if it is
against my after-thought.

	It was Christmas time, and the snow lay
very deep upon the frozen ground, and the 
bells upon the horses were ringing out joyously,
as the sleighs glided up and down the streets
of the city. Mirth and festivity seemed to
reign triumphant everywhere; but when joy is
at its height, sometimes sadness falls like a 
solemn pall, and so it was this Christmas time
of which I write. The children had hung 
their stockings up on Christmas eve, and Santa
Claus had filled them to overflowing with good
things—it was a happy household—and there
had been much longing and expectancy be-
forehand, and wondering among the children,
of what Santa Claus would bring them, and
especially what choice and precious gift would
be bestowed upon the little one whose cross
had seemed heavier than infancy could bear,
whose life had been one of constant suffering, 
and whose patience and resignation was more
than mortal. The little pale, starry-eyed 
darling, with the thoughtful brow, the silken
hair, that lay so lovingly in rings upon it, and
whose gentleness shone in every feature of her

[Column 2]
beautiful, spirituelle face. She was first in
everything; the big, fat baby brother, with the
curls of burnished gold on his sunny brow,
was content to wait for papa's kiss, when he
came in, until his little pale sister had been
lovingly caressed. O, it was a happy family,
there, how could it be gloomy, for there seems
ever sunshine where the children are.
	But a shadow fell that day upon the happy
household, and yet it was as if the loving
Savior came and took into his own bosom the
little lamb, whose sufferings had been so pitiful.
Just when the dinner was announced, and the 
father and mother and all the little ones were
ready, an unseen angel entered, and the light
went out of that happy home, and the shadow
of death fell across its threshold. It had been
such a happy day, and now all was so changed
—a hush—a stillness brooded over all—the 
children knew not what to think; how could it
be that on this day of gladness for all the
world, such grief should come to them! It is
useless to attempt to reason with an excess of
sorrow; not until grief has spent itself is it
possible to be calm. And for children what
can one do? The little transparent hands
were folded, the soft eyes that had looked up 
so imploringly but a few moments ago, were
closed, and the long, silken lashes lay lovingly
upon the pale cheek, as we laid her down upon
the dainty pillow; the pure spirit had gone to
that better home, where no pain nor sorrow
could ever afflict her again. The children put
their toys away without a word; silence had
fallen upon all. The snow fell thick and fast
without and lay like a shroud all over the
valley. There were no songs that night, but
tears and sobs and piteous moans; but those
who realized what her sufferings had been
knew that she had entered spotless on eternal
years, and, "Oh, how much the best!"
	All day and all the long night, and another
day the snow kept falling, and when we laid
the little white figure down, it was in a valley
of whiteness, emblematic of her purity; and
the snow enveloped her grave with a mantle
of beauty. A white cross of marble now
marks the spot where the little suffering one
was laid to rest, that Christmas time; and all
the summer long the loving ones bereft, carry
flowers and lay upon the sod, in remembrance
of her sweetness and innocence, but when the
snow falls, it seems more fitting still in emblem
of her purity. And every Christmas time we,
who loved her so, remember how the shadow
fell upon our hearthstone, and our hearts go
out to all who suffer; all the more tenderly in
deeper sympathy, because of the great sorrows
that have come to us.
	
Nine years have faded since she went away
Nine years for her to live in heavenly places;
To learn the look of blessed angel faces,
Nine years to grow as only angels may.

"I wonder who of those that went before,
And those that followed in her shining way;
She has met there, in heaven's auroral day,
And if they talk their earth life o'er and o'er,

"I think this very morning they are met,
She and the other dear ones who have gone,
In some dear place in heaven secure and lone,
To talk of things they never can forget.

So we will think of them just as they were,
Their voices sweet and all their pleasant ways;
And thoughts like these shall help us through
the days,
Until we go to meet them where they are."

	I fear this is a sad story to tell children, but
it is true nevertheless, and I have told it you
just as the old year is dying, and when we all
grow more or less sober and thoughtful. And
whatever may be said of stories grave or
gay, it is fitting that amid the mirth and jollity

[Column 3]
of holiday time, one's thoughts should be occa-
sionally stirred by the experiences of the past,
"birth and death, marriage and separation, joy
and grief in all their familiar forms," knock
at every door and cross every threshold at one
time or another, but we feel heavy sorrows, keen-
est perhaps, in times of general rejoicing. The
lyre of human passion has been struck on all
its chords," and no life is complete that has
not tasted the bitter as well as the sweet. The
true poetry of life is not all like a summer
dream, but abounds in shadows, mysteries and,
perchance, occasional midnight darkness.
	And now on this the last night of the old
year with which we are about to part, many
tender recollections arise, and we are fanciful
enough to feel the influence of the season and
the time, and while we bid the old year good-
by and stand, as it were, waiting to welcome
in the new, we recall the words of Tennyson,
and repeat them here:

"Full knee deep lies the winter snow,
And the winter winds are wearily sighing;
Toll ye the church bell sad and low,
And tread softly and speak low,
For the old year lies a-dying."
	EMILE.
[Signed]  E. B. Wells


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PRIMARY ENTERTAINMENT.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Primary Association of Circleville met
Friday morning, Dec. 7th, 1888, at 10 a.m.,
Prest. Sarah A. Morrill presiding. Singing,
"Oh, ye mountains high." Opening prayer by
Bro. D. S. Gillies. Singing, "Beatiful Zion."
Remarks by Laban Morrill; Select Reading,
Emma Morrill; Recitation, Edna Dalton, en-
titled, "Propitious Friends," Song, Nellie
Parker and Clara Gillies, entitled, Swing-
ing;" Select Reading, Louie Whittaker; Reci-
tation, entitled, "My Mother's Bible" Denna
Nielson; Song, Alice and Celia Thomas.
	Prest. Sarah A. Morrill felt greatly encour-
aged to see the children taking so active a
part; hoped they would continue to improve.
	Bible Questions answered by Effie Dalton
and Permelia Morrill; Song, Jennie Parker
and Mary Whittaker; Recitations, entitled,
"Don't run in Debt," Dora Morrill; Essay on
"Character," E. M. Fullmer; Speech, Willie
Dalton; Song, Julia Rubey; Speech, Ozro
Fullmer; Dialogue, entitled, "Poor Work Don't
Pay," Mozetta Smith and company; Questions
on the "Life of Joseph Smith," answered by
Virginia and Caroline Peterson; Recitation,
Rhoda Gillies; Select Reading, Alma Nielson;
"Grandma's Birthday was then recited by
Blanche Parker.
	Coun. S. S. Sudweeks made some interesting
and appropriate remarks.
	"The Blind Man's Appeal" was recited by
Addie Morrill; Song, Lettie Fullmer; Dialogue,
entitled, "Slang," by C. R. Dalton and com-
pany; Remarks by Bishop J. E. Peterson.
Singing. Benediction by J. Simkins.
		ADDIE MORRILL, Sec.
	Circleville, Dec. 17, 1888.


Margaret Deland is said to have rewritten
"John Ward" six times before it was given to 
the printer.
	The New York Tribune says:  "Women are
studying medicine in England in thorough
earnest.  At the recent examinations at Lon-
don University, ten of the nineteen passes for
honors were taken by women.  In anatomy
they took three of the six honors.  In physiol-
ogy they secured four out of six.  In materia
medica only did they fall behind, and even
there they got three of the seven honors.  In
the face of such a record the opponents of
medical education for women are feeling a
trifle uncomfortable."


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


AFFECTIONATELY ADDRESSED TO 
SISTER JULIA C. HOWE.

Dearest sister, fain I'd bless you.
Fain would drive the pain away.
Which so sadly does distress you,
Making dark the sunniest day.

But, take courage, God is near you,
Med'cine to His Saints He gives;
Then, my sister, never fear you,
Thro all His love forever lives!

May He send the balm of healing 
Quickly on your suffering head;
May you hear His voice revealing
Your spirit shall be clothed and fed.

Then look up, dear, passive be,
Soon a peaceful time will come;
Soon rejoicing days you'll see,
And fill with peace your blessed home.
	HANNAH T. KING.
June 1, 1882.


BY-AND-BY

Be quiet, restless heart! The long light lies
In gleams of lingering sunshine on the hill;
The home-bound swallow, twittering as he flies,
Makes silence seem more still.

The shadows deeper grow, and in the woods
The air a latent sweetness holds in fee;
An odor faint of yet unblossomed buds--
So like, dear heart, to thee!

Far distant in the soft, cerulean deep,
Where the horizon bounds the nether world,
Great ships becalmed, like brooding birds asleep,
Lie with white sails loose furled. 

In peace the day is ended, and the night
Falleth as doth a veil upon the sea;
Along its bosom come with swift-winged flight
The gray mists silently.

O anxious heart, how Nature speaks! Her power
How leisurely she uses! How intense
The infinite peace of her most fruitful hour!
How soft her influence.

Time hath she for her storms to sweep the main;
To rock the tree-tops with her winds of wrath;
To bring forth fragrance in the summer rain;
And time for snow he hath.

So, dear, for all thy eager soul desires,
She keeps sweet times and seasons. In her mood
Is hid for thee all passion's subtle fires,
To round thy womanhood.

Cease, then! and in this dewy twilight, move
As one who asks not whither, cares not why:
This gift for all holds still the eternal love—
God's endless by-and-by.
	—Primitive Methodist.


[Column 1]
WINTER PLEASURES.
Another New Year!  And, notwithstanding
the persecutions heaped upon this people, and
the rigid enforcement of the Edmunds-Tucker
bill, generally speaking prosperity and peace
are found in the homes and habitations of the
Saints in these valleys of the mountains.  Some
families are separated, some fathers and hus-
bands are suffering imprisonment for con-
science sake, and others are exiles from home
and its joys and pleasures, but the consolations
of the Gospel more than compensate for all,
and there is much to rejoice over, for Zion is
prospering, and the light of prophecy tells us
there is nothing to fear; it is proper and con-
sistent to enjoy the present. It is a time for
happy greetings;  the interchange of kindly
feelings between relatives and friends.  It is
also a fitting time to bestow material favors
upon the needy.  King Winter has shown his
most magnificent gray, and frosty beard and
wrapped his flowing, snowy robes around the
summits of the lofty hills, and the heavy
[Column 2]
garment reaches far down over the beautiful
valley.  Now is the season for recreation and 
winter enjoyment, the respite from outdoor 
labor; and the merry jingle of the sleigh-bells
keep rapturous time to the music of glad young
hearts.  Young men and maidens view this
time of leisure and social intercourse as most
propitious in promoting matrimonial engage-
ments.

"Learn to win a lady's faith
Nobly as the thing is high;
Bravely, as for life and death,
With a loyal gravity.
Lead her from the festive boards,
Point her to the starry skies;
Guard her by your truthful words,
Pure from courtship's flatteries."

	One revels not so much in thoughts of 
nature as in the fireside pleasures.  The home,
the hearthstone, the bright cheery fire; these
are appreciated now.  The warm, cosy corner
and comfortable easy chair are the luxuries
sought after and indulged in most.  The bright,
heavy curtains fall gracefully over the frosted 
windows; yes, frost work on the glass, what
skill can equal it?  Imitate it as the artist may,
he can never compete with the Great Master
in this classical legendary picture-making.

"As by some genii's quaint device."

	The glowing fire on the clean swept hearth-
stone, which throws over all objects in the 
room a luxurious warmth, is specially inviting,
and almost without being aware of the inclina-
tion, one sinks into a profound reverie, where
lights and shadows blend into fantastical pic-
tures and the imagination revels fancy-free in
the realms of waking dreamland.

"Well may dreams present us fictions,
Since our waking moments turn
With such fanciful convictions
As make life itself a dream."

These hours of momentary rest from active
labor by the winter fireside are a sort of peace-
ful relief to mind and body, and give oppor-
tunity to recuperate after the long protracted
toil of the more laborious months.  There is a 
little time for the renewal of old friendships
and agreeable associations, which strengthen
the affections and make life more desirable to
all.  Such reunions and awakening of latent
feeling in the human breast, bring into exer-
cise those attributes of the soul that help to 
make us more like Him, who said, "Do unto
others as ye would that they should do unto
you."  We all like attention and courtesy
from others, though we may be neglectful in
rendering it.  Yet methinks, we should take
time to be loving and gentle, and respectful
and sociable, for after all we make people
better if we make them happy.  Times of fes-
tivity, jollity and innocent mirth are good for
us all.
	We are all one great family, and it seems
essestial for us to become well acquainted with
each other.  In mingling together socially, we
usually see people in their best light, it brings
out the finest expressions of the individual's
real self.  Business and the cares of life,
which oftimes press heavily upon the mind,
making one appear to great disadvantage, are
momentarily cast aside and scope is given to
the higher impulses which beautify the soul,
and possess a greater charm than wealth or
any of its material pleasures or advantages.
Life is only short at best, and while it is our
duty to provide for our temporal wants, it is
not good, or beneficial to stifle the affections,
the kindly feelings of the human heart, which
are more truly elevating in their character than
the wealth of the Indies.
	We talk a great deal about cultivation,
about excellence of attainments in these days,
but the culture which refines most is that 
which touches the heart; and those attainments
are most excellent and most desirable, which
inspire us with courage to perform life's duties

[Column 3]
acceptably, and these include, in a great de-
gree, love for all mankind, and many cour-
tesies to and much charity for our fellow be-
ings.  Those who associate largely with their
 fellow-men are the highest types of character, 
possess the greatest magnanimity, are more
ready to forgive a wrong and have fewer
rough edges or sharp corners that need toning
down and modifying.  Consequently such men
and women are the ones, who are the most at-
tractive to those whose perceptions are not 
dulled or blunted by evil.  I believe that our
Father in heaven is pleased when we come to-
gether in social entertainments, where there is
order and harmony. All our relations with 
each other as a people should be characterized
by purity of purpose and a desire to benefit
and bless others as well as ourselves, and in
doing this we are entitled to the blessing of God
upon our efforts.
	The pleasures of the winter season are of 
such a nature that some are very apt to indulge
to excess, and then they pall upon our senses
and we are ready to declare them all vanity.
Dancing is one of the pastimes that is greatly
abused; in moderation it is good and tends to 
grace and ease of manner, which is an accom-
plishment that adds much to the deportment,
and is certainly desirable; the music of the 
ball-room and the motion of dancing is, more
especially to the young, like enchantment. It
bewilders and dazzles them, consequently if
left to themselves, they frequently ruin their
health by over indulgence; and yet a little 
amusement of this nature is healthful and 
beautiful.  To enumerate all the amusements
adapted to the winter season would be impossi-
ble, but suffice to say, there is an abundance
for old and young, and we should not neglect a
reasonable amount of pleasurable enjoyment,
for it is invigorating in its physical tendency,
and in its moral tone, elevating.  The great
difficulty is to exercise discretion in these mat-
ters and keep within proper bounds.
We are apt to overdo things that we like, to
neglect weightier matters that are not so pleas-
ant in their nature.  But this is the season to
enjoy the song, and the dance, the fireside
winter tales, music and conversation, those
charms that give such zest to home-life, and
that are such potent influences in renovating
society when rightly applied.  Our young peo-
ple have the most advantageous opportunities
at the present time to improve, yes, to excel
in those things that make home delightful and
their society everywhere attractive and enter-
taining. Reading is one of the pleasures of
winter we should not forget to class among its
enjoyments.  And a careful selection of books
or papers is an essential matter.  After read-
ing, converse together in the home, at the table
or the fireside upon the subjects, and you will
find it a fruitful source of pleasure, and a
great improvement of one's conversational 
powers. 
	I have a picture in my mind of a large
family, seated around an open fire-place, in a
very unpretentious living room, the table
loaded with nuts and apples, a few books with
homely well worn binding, plainly showing
they had been often used; some old-style musi-
cal instruments were there, the young people
are now singing, old-fashioned, simple ballads
to amuse father and mother; there was no blaze
of chandeliers, only the glimmering, fitful light
of the pine-knots, which always brings out such
weird shadows that remind one of Macbeth's
witches.  By and by when the trilling of the 
fresh young voices died out, then the young
folks said, now it's your turn, father or mother,
tell us a story of when you were young, how
it was you fell in love, for it must be a love
story, mind, and the simple but truthful story
was told by the winter fireside as effectively as
if it had been presented on the stage in a melo-
drama.
AUNT EM.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	EDITOR

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount 
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	JANUARY 1, 1889.


THE NEW YEAR 1889.

	The EXPONENT wishes its readers A Happy
New Year, in every land and clime, wherever
they may be, from the Rocky Mountain region,
to the borders of the Mediterranean, and thence
to the shores of Hindostan, or upon the islands
of the Pacific sea. To one and all it extends
sincere and cordial congratulations, upon the ad-
vent of the New Year; hoping it may prove a year
of prosperity, in the acquisition of knowledge, in
the growth of intelligence, in the success of
science, and in the extension of "life, liberty and
the pursuit of happiness" to all mankind, irre-
spective of creed or party; and although it was
seemingly unpropitiously ushered in with an
eclipse of the sun, who knows but it may be an
augury for good, and the sun shine out far more
brilliantly after being darkened by the lesser light
of the moon, and the new year mark an era in
the history of the world, that the people will be
proud to look back upon as the turning point in
the road toward a higher civilization, that shall
envelop humanity with its curtains of strength
and love, and raise the banner of freedom aloft
for all to gaze upon wonderingly.
	That a glorious time is coming has long been
predicted, and why not now? The present is auspi-
cious with pale stars of hope, that grow brighter
and brighter—the midnight hour of ignorance
is, doubtless, past, for light has come into the
world, and truth has burst forth in rich effulgence
and ere long it shall assuredly triumph over error
and sin, and the reign of righteousness begin.
Speed the time when strife and enmity shall cease
and the world rejoice in a reign of peace.


[Column 1]

EDITORIAL NOTES.

	"SALT LAKE CITY ILLUSTRATED" is a hand-
some work by D. C. Dunbar & Co., issued recent-
ly in Omaha. It contains, over fifty views of the
city from  various points, very fine cuts of business
and other public buildings and large and commo-
dious residences, churches, etc., taken correctly
from photographs. In addition to this there is an
accurate description of the city, its rise and pro-
gress, by R. W. Sloan. The book contains forty
pages, is of heavy paper, and the type and me-
chanical work in the very best style. It gives
the stranger a very good idea of Salt Lake City
and its environs, and will be a good thing to carry
a general impression of the beauty and outside
appearance of the town. The work shows com-
mendable enterprise, as well as possessing con-
siderable merit on its own account. For sale at
Dwyer's Book Store, Main St, 40 cts per copy.
	The Deseret News Company has just issued a 
paper entitled, "The Deseret Weekly."  It is in

[Column 2]

pamphlet form, a very suitable size for handling
or for binding; larger outside than Harper,s
Monthly, with three column pages, but only con-
taining thirty-two pages of reading matter. The
paper is intended to combine the current news as
a news paper and magazine, and may be properly
styled a journal. This first number is filled with
original articles from writers well known to the
community, and upon themes of interest to the
people here, and well worth preserving to be read
in the future as well as to send abroad to the
world. The opening of the volume is a poem
"Thought's Martyrdom" by the gifted poet of
Zion, O. F. Whitney, followed by "Ideas of
Government," by C. W. P., a subject upon
which much may be said educational to the peo-
ple. A story follows, opening with the saying
"Truth is stranger than fiction," signifying of
course that it is a true story and will therefore be
of greater interest to those who read it. "The
Relations of Life," by S. W. R., "Among the
Mexicans," by J. E. Talmage, "Curing a Cold,"
C. W. Stayner. "Spectacles a Necessity," by
Romania B. Pratt. M. D., "Holiday Changes," a
poem by Lula, characteristic of the times; another
by Mrs. Woodmansee, "Stand Your Ground,"
possessing the genuine ring of Mormonism. "A
Happy New Year," by Godfrey Williston Chris-
tine, contains much information on the subject of
New Year's in other ages and centuries etc.
"Martyrs to the Truth," Josiah Burrows. "A
Peculiar Race," B. F. C. Jr., "The Late Fair,"
Essay Caigh. "The Resurrection," a lecture by
J. E. Taylor, and other articles and miscellaneous
matter make up a very interesting number. The 
price per year, payable in advance, is $2.50, or
half year $1.50. Twenty six numbers will com-
plete a volume, as the fifty-two numbers would
not be a suitable size for binding. Success to
the new enterprise.

     "THE STORY OF THE BOOK OF MORMON," just
issued by Elder Geo. Reynolds, is unique in its
originality, and will certainly enhance the value
of that wonderful book, which forms the founda-
tion of the work; a book that seems to have
troubled the enlightened world so much, because
of the manner of its coming forth, as also its pe-
culiar style, and the general character of the
work itself, and its striking similarity to the
Hebrew Bible. The "Book of Mormon" has
been a source of discomfort and of anxiety, so to
speak, from the time when it was first announced
that Joseph Smith had discovered some gold
plates in a hill near Palmyra, until the present
day.  It has been one of the most important fac-
tors in the history of this Church, and wherever
the name "Mormon" is heard the story of that
wonderful book is told in one form or another;
generally so sensational and highly-colored and
so far wide of the truth that it seems strange
that people do not know that the tale is false.
However, at last, after sixty years, a story is
actually told on the subject that can be relied
upon. The familiarity of the writer with his
theme is well known to the people here, and he is
certainly able to present the subjects he describes
in a manner that will be attractive and entertaining
to all who read for the sake of obtaining true
knowledge. The book is handsomely illustrated.
The first picture is a copy of the painting, "Jesus
Appearing to the Nephites," by Wm. T. Armi-
tage, in the Logan Temple; "The Vision of
Nephi," "The First Sacrifice On The Promised
Land," "Babylon," "Nazareth," "Discovery of the
Records of the Jaredites," "The Vision of
Limhi," and other illustrations descriptive of the
book, forty-two in all, must intensify the interest
of the literary work. We have not yet had time
to read the book sufficiently careful to be able to
review it properly, but feel much interested in the
subject matter of the work. It is handsomely
bound and certainly presents an attractive exterior.
The book contains nearly 500 pages, and the

[Column 3]

typographical part of the work is excellent. After
having perused the book we shall give a more ex-
tended notice, and in the meantime we trust it
will have, as it certainly ought, a wide circula-
tion. Price, cloth binding, $3.00, leather, $4.50.


NEW YEAR'S GREETIEG.

TO MY SISTERS:
	I wish you A Merry Christmas and A Happy
New Year!  In all our varied circumstances as
Saints we have a right to acknowledge the hand
of God in all things.  This encourages and
strengthens us in our labors in the Relief Society
at this time; it makes the hearts of the poor re-
joice through the diligence and thoughtfulness of
those who minister to them in doing good, being
in harmony with our worthy bishops; the teachers,
both male and female, find the needy and see that
none lack for the comforts of life, and thanksgiv-
ing ascends to the Father, instead of the cries of
suffering.  We have had no paupers formerly, and
the absence of saloons and places of refuge that
follow intemperance, which belong not to Latter-
day Saints.  We are compelled by law now to
submit to some of these.  The United States
think the precepts of the Bible too good for Mor-
mons to practice, they must only believe; these
things make us sorry; although over eight hun-
dred true wives married for time and all eternity
(for death ends all matrimonial covenants in this
world at present), we will wait and call upon our
Heavenly Father for aid, for strength (for the
means accumulated for the support of the family
must go for fines), to rear the children in the path
of honesty and uprightness, and to teach them to
honor our God-given constitution.
	Knowing it is truly a religious conviction that
prompted the acts of fathers and mothers to take
upon themselves the heavy responsibilities of
large families, and the knowledge that we have
received the Holy Ghost through obedience, as
the Bible directs, let us not grow weary, but be
faithful unto the end, in doing good and loving
our sisters "as ourselves."  Mothers, our beauti-
ful, healthy, loving children, cherish them, for
they are gifts from God.  Under these peculiar
and trying conditions, fonder are the affections for
the darlings, and as the family circle is the center
of bliss and sunshine in time and eternity, let us
enjoy the home.
	As all, even those who persecute us, are our
Father's children, we can pity all mistakes; those
that come through misrepresentation, and all, even
 our worst enemies, we pray for, and while the
merry Christmas rung through all Christendom, 
how little did the world think of the loving hearts
that are wrung in prison, innocent of wrong doing,
and of the desolate hearts and hearthstones in
Utah.
	Here women are organized and have power to
do much good; it will show some joy and honor
too.  May we ever be true to the trust and confi-
dence bestowed upon us; bridle the tongue; by
ceasing to speak detrimentally of any, for all
have a portion of infirmities, and there is ever
room for improvement, and by extending mercy,
it is promised to us.  Read a little each day, my
dear sisters, if but ten minutes, and we will lay up
treasures of knowledge, besides mental and
spiritual strength for performing our daily duties,
and these are the first consideration.  The monthly
visits of our ever faithful teachers are a great bless-
ing to the Saints; these are our special representa-
tivesin the kingdom of God, with the sister teachers.
May they ever be endowed wtth wisdom, discern-
ment, and a goodly portion of the Holy Spirit,
that none may suffer, and may they ever have
wise counsel to comfort the afflicted.
	The counsel given us from the brethren of the
Apostles a few days since was for the sisters to
continue their good works, as Sister Eliza and her
Counselors, with others, had done and had taught


in the past; we ever hope to improve, until we are
perfect in every good word and work in the sphere
we are called to act in. Sisters, continue in sav-
ing wheat; if it needs renewing it can be loaned
to the presiding Bishop, or by the Bishop of the 
ward being responsible in writing.
	Wherever the brethren can take time to visit
and encourage the sisters there is a great differ-
ence in their prosperity and growth.  We did not
call ourselves to these labors of love, but we are
willing and desirous to do what is required; we
wish to hold our meetings and conferences regu-
larly as heretofore, that we may improve.  Can
our time and means be more profitably spent than
in becoming better acquainted with each other, 
by strengthening confidence, encouraging faith,
and purifying our thoughts?  And may our joys
increase as each year unfolds its pages to write
upon; may they never be blotted with unkindness
or regrets.
	That the bright sunshine of peace may ever be
and abide with us, is the sincere prayer of,
		Your sister and co-laborer,
						Z. D. H. YOUNG.
	P. S. Again to my dear sisters, A Merry Christ-
mas and A Happy New Year.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A ﻿TRAINING SCHOOL FOR NURSES.

	The need of competent and well-trained nurses
has long been felt in this community; and it is in
itself a department of labor that requires prepara-
tion. Training schools for nurses have been
established in all the large cities of the east, and
the practical knowledge on this subject thus ob-
tained has been fraught with the best results pos-
sible in this line of work.
	It is therefore with great satisfaction that we
announce the opening of such a school in Salt
Lake City, believing it will be beneficial in its re-
sults here as elsewhere.
	Dr. Mattie P. Hughes, whose name is well-
known in the community as a successful medical
practitioner, has decided to open a Training
School for Nurses, on the 20th of the present
month, January, 1889. The Dr. has, while travel-
ing, in the United States and also abroad in
Great Britain and on the continent, visited the
principal training schools in large cities, and has
taken great pains to look carefully into the plans
and methods upon which such institutions are
conducted. She proposes to give lectures similar
to those of the Boston Training School for nurses,
and is thoroughly qualified for the teaching, and
has provided herself with the needful apparatus,
etc, the best charts, books and skeleton. All
who are acquainted with Dr. Hughes will feel as
we do, that she is competent by education and
training to give the necessary instruction, and has
the high moral courage and independence neces-
sary for the work she is about to undertake, which
will, if it succeeds, prove a blessing to the sick,
and perhaps save not only much anxiety, but
many lives. Doctors depend greatly upon their
nurses, and we all know what a comfort it is to be
carefully and skillfully tended, when there is sick-
ness, and the nursing is very frequently all that is
necessary, without medicine or the attendance of
a physician. Communications in regard to terms
and other matters should be addressed to Dr.
Mattie P. Hughes, corner First East and South
Temple St. or, P. O. Box 575, Salt Lake City,
Utah.


[Column 1]

SEVENTIETH ANNIVERSARY.

	On the 29th of December last, 1888, Sister
Sarah M. Kimball reached the seventieth anniver-
sary of her birth. Sister Kimball has in many
respects been a remarkable woman, and at the
present writing is as brilliant in mind, and as
capable of mental activity as she was at forty.
She has had some experiences calculated to de-

[Column 2]

velop her best faculties for thinking, planning,
and suggesting; but aside from this development
she has much originality which has been a marked
characteristic of her career in life.
	It was at Sister Kimball's home in Nauvoo that
a few sisters belonging to her own neighborhood
met together at her suggestion, to consult as to a
plan for combining their means and efforts to
form a Ladies' Society, with a view to assist in
the building of the Nauvoo Temple. Out of this
little nucleus thus called together in Sister Kim-
ball's parlor has grown the organizations of
women that exist in the Church to-day.  It was in
this wise. The ladies invited, met and decided
to organize; Sister Kimball was delegated to call
on Sister Eliza R. Snow, who was then engaged
in teaching in the family of the Prophet, and ask
her to write a constitution and by-laws, and
submit them to President Joseph Smith prior to
the next meeting appointed for the following
Thursday. Sister Eliza cheerfully responded, and
when she read them to him he replied that the
constitution and by-laws were the best he had
ever seen. "But," he said, "this is not what you
want. Tell the sisters their offering is accepted of
the Lord, and He has something better for them
than a written constitution. Invite them all to
meet me and a few of the brethren in the Masonic
Hall over my store, next Thursday afternoon and
I will organize the sisters under the priesthood
after the pattern of the priesthood." He further
said, "The Church was never perfectly organized
until the women were thus organized."
	Most of our sisters already know the result of
this organization, and are familliar, by reading,
with the teachings of Joseph Smith to the Relief
Society in those early days.
	When the Relief Society was organized in the
Fifteenth Ward in Salt Lake City, Feb. 7th 1857,
Sister Kimball was elected President and has re-
tained the position ever since. Under her wise
and judicious management, the Society in that
Ward has flourished temporally, and much posi-
tive good has been accomplished by it in many
directions. The record of the work upon the
books, and the written reports from time to time,
tell this story, but they do not tell all. The com-
forting of the sorrowful and afflicted, the minister-
ations to the sick and dying, and the many deeds
of loving tenderness wrought by the sisters in
this and other organizations are not to be seen of
others, but they are doubtless recorded on high.
	Sister Kimball has been a widow for over
twenty-five years. Her husband was drowned in
the Pacific Ocean by the wreck of the steamer
Ida Hancock, off the coast of the San Pedro on
his way to the Sandwich Islands.
	Sister Kimball has the honor of being the first
woman to lay the corner-stone of the first Relief
Society building erected in this dispensation.
She thus describes it:—
	November 13, 1868 a silver trowel and mallet, were
furnished me, and, assisted by a Master Mason,
and surrounded by an assemblage of people, I
had the honor of laying the corner-stone of the
first Relief Society building erected in this dis-
pensation.
	At the time of the organization of the Central
Board of the Relief Society, Sister Eliza R. 
Snow the President-elect chose Sister Sarah M.
Kimball as the Secretary of that Board, and she
was set apart to act in that capacity by President
John Taylor, July, 17th, 1880, at the same time
that Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith was set apart to
preside over all the Relief Society in the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The two
Counselors to the President were also set apart
at the same time, Sister Zina D. H. Young and
Sister Elizabeth Ann Whitney. After this was
done Sister Kimball was set apart as secretary
and received the following blessing from Presi-
dent John Taylor.
	"Sister Sarah Melissa Granger Kimball, in the

[Column 3]

name of the Lord Jesus Christ, and by virtue of
the Holy Priesthood I set thee apart to the office
of Secretary of the Relief Societies in Zion; to
record important events and keep a faithful re-
cord. Thou shalt be quick to discern and a ready
writer. Seek more earnestly for the Spirit of the
Lord, and thou shalt be blest more than thou
hast ever had power to conceive of. As thou
hast been preserved in life, thou shalt continue to
be preserved. I seal upon thee thy former bless-
ings, and thou shalt be honored in time and in
eternity, and have a seat in the celestial kingdom
of God, in the name of Jesus, Amen."
	Sister Kimball has faithfully fulfilled the obliga-
tions thus placed upon her in keeping the records
of all important matters and events pertaining to
the organization, and still continues to labor in
the performance of the duties of the calling to
which she was set apart; and though delicate in
her physical organization, she seems likely to re-
tain her powers of activity, and to be able to fill
the responsible positions with which she has been
honored many years to come. That she may
be preserved in the full possession and enjoy-
ment of health and powers of endurance in body
and mind, to advise, assist and instruct, those who
have had less experience in the sphere in which
women are now called to act, is sincerely to be
hoped for by all who favor Zion. The writer ex-
tends her most hearty congratulations to Sister
Kimball, wishing her length of days, peace and
prosperity.
		E. B. W.


TO MRS. Z. D. H. YOUNG.

			SANDWICH ISLANDS.

TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY
	OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF
	LATTER-DAY SAINTS:
	Dear Sister:—I have just finished the report
of the Relief Societies of these islands to for-
ward to you, but, having had no previous cor-
respondence, I do not know where to address.
I have not received the EXPONENT for some
time, and, as I think that, perhaps you have
received a letter for the EXPONENT from the
islands ere this, concerning the work of the
Relief Society I will not write to it at present.
But I will say, we held our Fair at the time of
our conference at Laie, Oct. 6th, which was
attended with marked success in the ability of
our native sisters.  Seven handsome quilts
were on exhibition, a large variety of babies
hoods, little shoes and stockings, lace tidies,
underwear, dresses, aprons, etc. etc., All
kinds of useful and ornamental work; over
two hundred articles in number, and reflecting
much credit on the ability of our dusky sisters.
This work was done by the four Societies of
this island only.
	They take great interest in this work, and
it is an industry that should be continued
among them, as it will tend to help them to
renounce their slothful and indolent habits,
and make them more fit for the association of
white people.
	Our Hawaiian sisters wish to send their
alolia nui to yourself and the societies in
Zion.  Ever praying for the advancement of
the work of God, I have the honor to be,
	Your Sister in the Gospel.
						LIBBIB NOALL.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

			WEBER	STAKE.
	Synopsis of the minutes of the quarterly
conference of the Relief Society of Weber
Stake, held in the tabernacle in Ogden City,
Dec. 13th, 1888, Mrs. Jane S. Richards pre-
siding.  Meeting opened by singing, "Come let


[Column 1]

us anew." Prayer by Bro. Gale. Singing,
"May we who know the joyful sound."
Minutes of the preceding conference, were
read by the secretary and unanimously adopted.
	Pres. J. S. Richards was thankful for the
pleasure of meeting again in conference.
Was glad to see so many present; had visited
quite a number of the branches of the Relief
Society throughout the county, and had en-
joyed a goodly portion of the spirit of God,
and listened to many faithful testimonies from
the sisters. Prayed for the Spirit of the Lord
to be with us to-day, to build up and
strengthen us in our holy faith.
	Pres. Zina D. Young felt we had met for a
renewal of the Spirit of God and prayed we
might receive it. Had noticed the same hum-
ble, kindly, Godly spirit filled the brethren in
prison, that did those who were laboring in the
Temples, and it was a proof that God was
well pleased with them and comforted them
abundantly with his Holy Spirit. Warned
the sisters against harboring the spirit of fault-
finding. Compared our trials to traversing a
canon which seemed that therewas no way out,
by, by faith and perseverence came through all
right; she had never lost faith in the silk business
in Utah; hoped to see it revived and prosper
under the management of the Saints. She
knew that faith in God and this Gospel was
daily increasing in the hearts of the Saints;
prayed it would continue.
	Sister Martha Bingham had been absent for
six months, but thanked God for the blessing
of returning. Had felt it quite a trial to have
our husbands imprisoned, or exiled, but knew
if we lived right, God would be with them and
with their families, and bless them abundantly
with His Spirit.
	Bishop R. McQuarrie was anxious for all
who came to meeting to hear the voices of the
speakers distinctly, that their hearts might be
filled and warmed and renewed with the Spirit
of God. We should seek to cultivate the
same spirit that inspired and animated our
brother Jesus Christ. Exhorted all to attend
to their prayers continually. Spoke of the
great good the Relief Society was doing; ad-
vised the sisters to work more earnestly in
saving wheat, and obeying that counsel given
to them on this subject by Pres. Young and
others.
	Sister Sarah Richards had a strong testi-
mony of the truth of this Gospel, and had
enjoyed it for many years. Was glad to see
Sister Young and others of our sisters, here to
advise and talk with us, and hoped each one
would go home filled according to their hearts
desire. Had never doubted that Pres. Brigham
Young was the inspired successor to Joseph the
Prophet, for she heard his voice and saw his
countenance reflected in him.
	Sister E. B. Wells felt that this was the
best day we had ever seen, notwithstanding the
clouds which often hover over us. She was
pleased to hear the brethren and sisters encour
age the saving of wheat, for there was no
danger of our storing away to much, for we
are told to seek out all the poor and needy no
matter what creed or color. Said we should
cultivate a spirit of charity and faith, especially
in our children; and made other remarks calcu-
lated to encourage the sisters in their labors of
love.
	Sister Emily Shurtliff felt it was necessary
for us to arouse ourselves from our seeming
neglect in regard to storing grain; was glad to
hear the subject revived and dwelt upon by
the brethren and sisters.
	Singing, "Come all ye sons of God." Prayer
by Bro. Dye.
	2 p.m.  Meetnig commenced by singing,
"Hail to the brightness." Prayer by Bishop
McKye. Singing, "Praise to the man who
communed with Jehovah." Opening remarks

[Column 2]

by the President, Mrs. Richards. Reports
made.
	Sister Eliza A. Tracy reported the Society
in Huntsville in a prosperous condition.
	Sister Adeline Belnap gave a favorable re-
port of the Hooper Society, said they had been
doing all in their power to assist in erecting a
meeting house in that place; had also visited
many sick, etc.
	Sister Jeannette Bingham of Wilson Ward,
bore a faithful testimony, and gave an encour-
aging report of their Society.
	Sister E. B. Wells, said it seemed to fall to
her lot to speak upon more practical matters, though
she desired more to be spiritually minded
thought it our duty to do all in our power to
allay the prejudice against us in the world;
explained a blank which had been received
from the Woman's National Association for the
signature of all those who believe that women
should vote on equal terms with men in all
political affairs. Gave some very good instruc-
tions on various subjects of importance to this
people. Spoke of the many benefits to the
suffering, obtained by upholding and sustaining
the Deseret Hospital.
	Sister Herrick spoke a short time expressing
her pleasure at meeting in the conference, and
bore a good testimony.
	Pres. Zina D. H. Young said she hoped the
sisters would work in unison with our brethren
in the priesthood. Advised mothers to observe
the Sabbath and teach their children to do the
same; "take special care in teaching the youth
good manners, self sacrifice and humility.
Let us show the world we are noble, true
women in every respect. When we become
pure and good enough God will open th way,
and the world will know that they have not
judged us any more justly than the Jews did
the Savior."
	Coun. C. F. Middleton, said he loved the
Latter-day Saints throughout the earth, and
desired to see them grow in purity and grace
before God.
	Pres. Jane S. Richards loved to listen to the
brethren and sisters on all occasions. "The
days of our conference are not long enough,
for we would like to hear from all if there
was but time." Urged upon the sisters the
necessity of laying up wheat, and of providing
means for the Hospital, also subscribing for
our own paper, the EXPONENT.
	After singing, "The Spirit of God like a fire
is burning," benediction was pronounced by,
Bishop Allred.
	MATTIE B. CANNON Stake Sec. R. S.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTES OF TRAVEL.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	DEAR SISTER:—After a long silence I thought
a few lines from this remote corner of Utah
would not come amiss.
	We are having very peculiar weather,
stormy, sunshine, then storming again. Good
health prevails, except colds; peace and pros-
perity everywhere apparent.		
	As I have been absent most of the summer
I will give a short sketch of our journey. We
left home July 13th, 1888, traveled by team
to Springville, where my sister resides, and
spent the Twenty-fourth at that place. It was
very nice, indeed, but the dinner for the old
folks was the most tempting part to see, the
sumptuous table seated with our aged brethren
and sisters was a beautiful sight to behold;
their cheerful faces and dim eyes shone with
delight and sparkled as the viands were passed
by pleasant and tidy young waiters, eager to
do their best for the aged; although not one of
the number, I was all the more delighted to
have the privilege of looking on. After the re-
past and a recess came the fun of the enter-
tainment, which was creditable; also speeches

[column 2]
and toasts, with singing, some appropriate bal-
lads.
	On the 28th we took the afternoon train on
the D. & R. G. for Price, which place we
reached at half past six o’clock, and then a
ride of 25 or 30 miles to Huntington, where
our daughter resides, to visit her. The scenery
through Spanish Fork Cañon was beautifully
grand. The station at Price was not as large
as I expected to find it. We arrived at Hunt-
ington at half past 11 o’clock; all our friends
were well and pleased to see us. We prolonged
our visit here 12 days, but unfortunately it
rained most of the time, which put a stop to
our rambling about much. Huntington is a
flourishing town, and bids fair to be a large
city in the future.
	On the morning of the 8th we again returned
to Price station, and took the 8 o’clock
train for Pueblo; it being night we had no
view of the country, but as day dawned we
were astir to see the country we were whirling
through. Some parts looked rather barren; as
we neared the streams it became more fertile,
and as we climbed the mountains to Marshal
Pass it was grand to behold, and a wonder how
a road could be made for the iron horse to
climb such a mountain, and the beautiful little
stream, Crystal Creek, how sparkling it was
on its course. All through Grand Cañon it is
wonderful, and there are many nice little spots
inhabited by busy people. On we are carried,
until we reach Pueblo, at half-past 8 at night;
here we have to lay over till 4:20 in the morn-
ing, when we take the Atchison Topeka & Santa
Fe route for Deming. We pass over the
barren plains of Colorado, through cañons,
over trestles that span the wash out; they look
rather toppling for such a heavy, long train to
cross; here we are surprised to see the native
Mexicans and their homes scattered along; the
train was divided to climb the mountains of
Colorado; at the top was a long tunnel; when 
we passed through it we were in New Mexico.
Here we met another train waiting for ours to
come through. A stop of twenty minutes
here for dinner, and away we go down; much
faster than we came up. We begin to come to
grassy plains and meadows and herds of stock;
they looked much better than the cattle in
Colorado. The Mexicans become numerous;
also their huts, for such they appear to us;
some beautiful country, nice streams and fields
of corn and beans, and occasionally an onion
and pepper patch. We pass through Alber-
querque at midnight. The stations are small
all through this country, or towns, as they
should be called. We follow the Rio Grande
a long way; it is a shallow, muddy stream; the
bed seems to be mostly quicksand; fine large
cottonwood trees grow along its banks.
	At Rincon we change cars. The passengers
are a motley crew, from the American to the
negro; in one car I observed five different
nationalities, and such a clatter; a keen ob-
server of the physological would have an ex-
cellent opportunity to read character in the
faces.
	We reach Deming at 3:30 p.m.  The
weather is delightful for the 11th of August
in the south, with a nice breeze to cool the air.
This is quite a busy little place, noted for its
wind mills, as that is the only means of ob-
taining water; some fine buildings, dwellings
and stores; the American custom house is here,
but few gardens or trees; everything brought
here by rail, and very reasonable prices. At
this place we were met with carriages and
teams to take us to Diaz, 95 miles.
	On the 13th we start in the evening; the
roads are level and hard, the twilight most
delightful, and evening air cool and grass in
abundance; splendid country, with many
strange sights, and afar off are the grand old
mountains. We pass several  wind mills, that
are used to get water for the herds of cattle


[Column 1]

that range over the wide plains. We camped
here at night; had a shower, not much, but re-
freshing; had supper and a good night's rest;
up early, and travel again after the usual
round of breakfast and putting things straight
for the day. Now we are amongst the moskeet
bushes, also the cactus of various kinds, and
beautiful flowers of lovely hues. We now
come to the Casas Grande River and noon; we
are delighted with the many varieties of
foliage, and gather some wild grapes, while the
birds make a terrible chattering, for fear we
might take all; the curious turtle is seen
here. We meet the first Mexicans traveling,
an old wagon, two yoke of cattle, one horse,
the whole family of a dozen; and then to drive
the team, two on one side and one on the other,
several children in the rear following. We
soon come to the guide; he accompanies us the
remainder of the way; camped with us. Next
morning, Aug. 16, we halted opposite Diaz.
Our son, the Bishop, came and took me to
Diaz, while the rest went to La Ascension to
pass through the custom house, all arriving at
12 o'clock in the little settlement of Diaz,
where we were kindly greeted by friends and
relations, and to rest after our long, tedious
journey.
	After a week in Diaz, I will try and describe
the secluded settlement a few Latter Day
Saints away in this far off land.
	The streets are laid out as our cities are
usually. Main Street runs North and South,
with shade trees of cottonwood on either side,
and a water ditch on each street. The garden
abounds in all kinds of vegetables; including
the delicous water melon in abundance; also
fruit trees and flowers of gay gorgeous hues,
that make the paths look lovely with an eye
to home adornment. The houses are built of
adobies, very large ones, also the fences and
out-houses mostly. The weather was not so
warm as we expected to find it; the nights
were cool and pleasant. We took a trip to the
upper settlement G—— W—— among the
mountains; three days travel over beauti-
ful country, passed several Mexican towns very
comically built and laid out. Their churches,
their mode of worship was explained to us, all
of which seemed very singular and simple. In
the town is a fine building built for our
dear departed brother, Apostle E. Snow, and
also many nice houses, fields, gardens, and
orchards, with the beautiful river Casas Grande
running through it; we spent six days there
with warm friends, and feasted on sweet potatoes
and melons, and returned home through as de-
lightful a valley as I ever saw, and passed the
first place the Saints settled and had to leave.
We caught fish and duck; and had the pleasure
of seeing the majestic century plant growing
in its native state and beauty. We felt well
paid for our trip around. I must say some-
thing of the ruins; we passed one town all
in ruins, it looked so lonely; also some very
large ruins which appear to have been a temple
centuries ago, and many mounds on being
opened are found cooking vessels of an extinct
people, curious shapes and various sizes. On
our return we were surprised to note the growth
of the garden and shade trees. Our stay in
Mexico was seven weeks; when we left our
dear ones to return, children and grand-children,
our sons and others came to Deming with us,
a journey of four days; we came a different
route back home, we had the pleasure of seeing
more country. We returned from Deming
as we went; the weather was stormy part of
the way. At Alberquerque we saw the Pueblo
Indians, and bought grapes, peaches, and
apples of them. We reached Salt Lake City
Oct. 15th, made a short visit there, and left on
the 24th of Oct. for home; arrived Nov. 9th,
well satisfied with our journey and visit to old
Mexico. At each settlement I was pleased to
see that the little paper EXPONENT was highly

[Column 2]

prized by the sisters. There is a Relief Society,
Primary and Y. L. M. I. Association in each
settlement, and I was told that they were
well attended, and all seemed to be alive to
their duty; health seemed to be apparent every-
where; molasses making, and haying, all
seemed to be full of business, as always is the
case with the much abused "Mormons."
	With kind regards and success for the
always welcome little valuable EXPONENT, I
remain,
	Your sister in the Gospel,
		J. C. JOHNSON.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

A FEW STRICTURES BY MR. STEN-
HOUSE, EX-M. P. P.

TO THE EDITOR OF THE VANCOUVER WORLD:

	Sir:—I have first of all to congratulate you
on the success of your new venture in journal-
istic enterprise, a sample of which I am de-
lighted to receive. It is true your politics
would seem to have undergone some modifica-
tion—but what matters? Consistency, in these
days, is no proof of sincerity, while its oppo-
site is often redeemed by the noblest attributes
of patriotism. You must allow me, however,
to take exception to an article which appears,
under the head of "Horrors of Mormonism,"
in your weekly edition of November 1, though
I hope I am not expected to notice at any
length the strangely obscene talk of Mrs. A.
Newman, before an assembly of ladies in New
York. No wonder it elicited, as we are told,
"exclamations of horror from all parts of the
house." Such language and such allusions are
never heard among the Latter Day Saints, but
are common enough probably in the more
modern quarters of Salt Lake City, where the
"Missionaries to Utah," hook their fish and
call them "Mormons." To find such Mormons
it is not necessary for any one but a missionary
to go so far as Utah. We have some very
good fellows in the Northwest, who had earned
the playful prefix of "Mormon" long before
the arrival of the genuine stock. In Utah the
"Jack" or mock Mormon has a commercial
value, only to be appreciated by the despairing
missionary when his report is overdue. If the
putrid utterances of Mrs. Newman had one
grain of solid truth, I would assuredly quit the
priesthood and the communion of the Mormon
Church before the advent of another day. It
is the only church in Christendom, as far as I
know, where immorality of the laity, as well
as of the clergy, is punished by excommunica-
tion.
	Your assumption that I preside over the
Latter Day Saints in the Northwest is quite:
erroneous. Our President is Mr. C. O. Card,
a son-in-law of the late Brigham Young and
the first Mormon, as it happens, that I was
privileged to meet. Our church has no lack
of giants both in mind and stature, many of
whom are the product of our much decried
polygamy, and it would have been the most
ridiculous thing in the world had the local
presidency been assigned to an obscure monog-
amous born individual like the late member for
Comox.
	In another article you quote, with amusing
complacency, the last report of the anti-Mor-
mon Governor of Utah, in which he says:
"This priesthood not only rules the church but
governs the state, &c, &c." Well, and what
then? Will it surprise your readers to learn
that not a priest, bishop or president can be or-
dained or continued in office without the
assent of the people expressed by vote in open
meeting? Or will it stun you to hear that on
all such questions the ladies—the poor down-
trodden women of Utah—have an equal voice
with the men? If there is any church in Canada
where the ladies and the laity have more power
over their clergy, I shall be glad to hear of it

[Column 2]

	I would refer the candid inquirer to a book
of travels lately published by Phil. Robinson,
a Gentile, and a man of the world, entitled
"Sinners and Saints," (Boston: Roberts Bro-
thers).  No one can read the book without
feeling that the author is indeed a "seeker
after truth." He flatters neither sinner nor
saint.  Had he catered for either, his book
would have sold better.
	One word as to polygamy; and here I wish
to be understood that I am now speaking for
myself alone—not as a Mormon, but as a man.
Everybody knows that the criminal element in
bigamy is the deception which is practiced on
one, and sometimes two, of the three parties
interested. Among the Latter Day Saints,
polygamy can only be contracted by all who
are concerned in it. I have still to graduate
in mohogamy; but when I have once attained
such eminence, it is not the action or opinion
of intermeddling governments that will deter
me from seeking higher honors in matrimony.
As a free-born Briton, I shall certainly claim
equal rights with the Indian, Mahommedan,
and other subjects of Her Majesty. You will,
therefore, understand once for all, and quite
apart from any doctrine supposed to be taught
by Mormons, that monogamy, though consecra-
ted by centuries of triumphant error, is yet
very far from defining the creed or prescribing
the practice of your very faithful servant,
		A. MAITLAND STENHOUSE.
	Cardston, Alberta, Canada. Nov. 16, 1888.


THE ANNUAL WASHINGTON CON-
			VENTION.

	The National Woman Suffrage Association
will meet in Washington, D. C., January 21st,
22nd, and 23rd, 1889, at the Congregational
Church, corner of G. and 10th streets.
	Delegates from all the states are invited to be
present. The question of uniting the two so-
cieties will be again under consideration, as the
resolutions passed at the recent annual meeting
of the American society, held at Cincinnati,
demand some action on the part of the Na-
tional Association. For this and other reasons
a large gathering of the friends of this move-
ment is desirable.
	For twenty years in succession these conven-
tions have been held at the national capital,
with hearings before committees of the Senate
and House judiciary, and able minority reports
thereon, which have been extensively circulated
throughout the nation, and thus a great educa-
tional work has been accomplished. We see
the effect in the extension of the suffrage to 
woman, and a growing interest on her part in
public affairs.
	In the presidential canvass just ended, women
have taken a more active part than ever be-
fore, and shown that they are by no means a
unit on political questions. For the first time 
large delegations of women have marched with
banners, in various processions, and spoken on
the platforms of different political parties.
	Neither among politicians, nor women them-
selves, is this in any sense a party movement.
While the prohibition party incorporated
woman suffrage in its platform, the Republicans
of Kansas made it a fact by extending munici-
pal suffrage to the woman of that state. The
Democrats of Connecticut on several occasions
voted for woman suffrage while Republicans
voted against it. In the New York Legislature
Republicans and Democrats have alike advoca-
ted and voted for the measure. In Congress
the last vote in the House was eighty Repub-
licans for woman suffrage, and four Democrats
against it, and not a single Democrat voted in
favor of it on the floor of the Senate. Both 
the Labor and Greenback parties have uni-
formly recognized woman suffrage in their
platforms. 
	There are movements now in the political


horizon pointing to the formation of a national
party in the near future, combining the interests
of labor, woman, temperance and other reforms.
Our strength for future action lies in the fact
that woman suffrage has some advocates in all
parties, and that we, as a party, are pledged to
none.
	The denial of the ballot to woman is the
great political crime of the century, before
which tariff, finance; land monopoly, temper-
ance, labor, and all economic questions sink into
insignificance, for the right of suffrage involves
all questions of personal and property rights.
	While each party in power has refused to
enfranchise woman, being sceptical as to her
moral influence in government; yet with strange
inconsistency they alike seek the aid of her
voice and pen in all important political
struggles, as shown in the late presidential
campaign. While not morally bound to obey
the laws made without her consent, yet we find
woman the most law-abiding class of citizens
in the community. While not recognized as a
competent part of the government, she is most
active in all great movements for education,
religion, philanthropy and reform.
	The magnificent convocation of women from
the world over, held at Washington last March,
a council more important than any since the
Diet of Worms, was proof of woman's marvel-
ous power of organization; and her clear com-
prehension of the underlying principles of all
questions of government. With such evidence
of her keen insight and executive ability, we
invite all interested in good government to give
us the inspiration of their presence in the com-
ing convention.
		ELIZABETH CADY STANTON, Pres.
		SUSAN B. ANTHONY, Vice Pres.
		MATILDA JOSLYN GAGE, Ch. Ex. Com.
		RACHEL FOSTER AVERY, Cor. Sec.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

NOTES AND NEWS.

	Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe is said to be in
better health now than she has been for years,
and walks quite readily with the aid of a
cane.
	Lady Jane Henrietta Swinburne has en-
tered her ninetieth year. She is mother of
the poet and critic, Algernon Charles Swin-
burne.
	The Evelina de Rothschild School for Girls
at Jerusalem has been opened under the di-
rection of Mlle. Fortuee Behar. It has more
than four hundred pupils.
	The Governor of Massachusets has ap-
pointed Mrs. Kate Gannett Wells to the place
on the State Board of Education left vacant
by the death of Miss Abby W. May.
	Miss Abby W. May left $5,000 to the Home
for Aged Colored Women, $3,000 to the
Gwynne Temporary Home, and $1,000 to the
New England Hospital for Women and Child-
ren.
	At the regular monthly meeting of the ex-
ecutive committee of the Massachusetts
Woman Suffrage Association Dec. 7th, the
following was unanimously adopted:
	"In the death of our friend, Abby W. May,
woman suffrage has lost a wise and faithful
advocate, and higher education an experienced
and devoted friend. She gave twenty years
of heroic effort for the slave, five years for the
soldiers in camp and hospital, more than
twenty years for the legal and political equality
of woman. Her example will be to us an in-
centive; her memory an inspiration.—Ed.
	Talk about the trials of genius in endeavor-
ing to make itself known to a cold world! The
truth is that nowadays in these United States
there is hospitality to new writers which often

[Column 2]

becomes ludicrous in its eagerness. Authors
of common place abilities spring into sudden
prominence through no fault of their own;
and there is no danger that any writer who
possesses the least spark of originality will be
overlooked. There is no Chatterbox business
going on now. What is most needed is a
higher standard of literary taste and less spas-
modic enthusiasm.—Ex.
	A horrible occurrence is related as having
taken place at Erie, Pa. Mrs. William
Savory and Miss Lucy Stinson were bosom
friends. Miss Stinson died, and Mrs. Savory
insisted upon impressing a last kiss upon the
lips of her friend. She did so. But the un-
dertaker had just treated the face with a pre-
paration for preserving the color. Mrs.
Savory was infected, and subsequently died
from blood poisoning—a most remarkable in-
stance of the folly of a custom that has noth-
ing to recommend it but sentimentality, and
everything against it in the light of sanitary
laws and the doctrine of common sense.—Ex.
	Mrs. Cleveland has succeeded in raising one
hundred thousand dollars in order to rebuild
Wells college, the female institution where
she was graduated. It is situated a few miles
from Ithaca, N. Y. It was destroyed by fire a
few months ago. The trustees had given up
the prospect of rebuilding as impossible, when
Mrs. Cleveland came forward and gave the dis-
tressed institution her personal attention. She
not only contributed a large sum of money
herself, but she circulated a paper and induced
others to subscribe, until money enough has
been raised to rebuild the college in better 
style than it was originally.—Ex.
	"God and the Women in American Public
Affairs" was the suggestive heading of a ser-
mon preached Sunday, Dec. 16, in Tremont
Temple, Boston, by Rev. Emory J. Haynes. 
He said:  It was the influence of the woman
in the home, by the breakfast table, over the
father and brother, that was the one factor in
the last municipal election which did more
than any other to win the victory. We have
our publicists and politicians, but it is to the
women we must look for the future of the
country. That is what did it—the influence of
home. These same home influences are going
to continue at all the municipal elections. That
is the great power of women. Woman, I be-
lieve in you! The records show that the
criminals are five men to one woman. To be
pure and self-sacrificing comes to women more
naturally than to men. We believe in you
because you have led men in the Christian
church. I hope you will help us to right a
thousand wrongs.—Ex.


Women have more strength in their looks
than we have in our laws, and more power by
their tears than we have by our arguments.—
Savile.
	In a truly good character we look, first of
all, for integrity, or an unbending regard to
recitude; then for independence, or the habitual
determination to be governed by an enlight-
ened conviction of truth and duty; then for
benevolence, or the spirit of kindness and
good will to men; and last, but not least, for
piety toward God, or an affectionate, reverent
regard for the will and glory of the great
Jehovah.—Hawes.


OBITUARIES.

	DIED, at Union, Salt Lake County, Dec. 6th, 1888,
Mary Ann Alberta Cunningham, the beloved daughter of
Hyrum H. and Della A. Brady, of membranous croup,
aged one year, ten months and eight days.

	I laid my darling down with a sigh,
		In grief, for sorrow was too deep;


My anguished heart could only cry,
		"O, God in heaven, my darling keep."

	I know my darling's form will wait
		Beyond this world, where grief's dark night
	Enshroud my saddened life, at heaven's gate
		I'll meet my child where all is light.
			M. A. SMART.

	DIED, at East Bountiful, Davis Co., Utah, after an ill-
ness of two months, Sept. 23rd, 1888, Emma Maria, be-
loved wife of Daniel Wood. Deceased was born July 12,
1834, in Plymouth, England. Baptized Feb. 25, 1851, by
Charles Phelps. She embraced the order of plural mar-
riage, was the mother of six children and twenty-three
grandchildren. Sister Wood was a faithful member in the
Relief Society, and labored in the capacity of a teacher
for many years; was always prompt to her meetings and
fulfilling her duties honorably, and died in full faith of the
Gospel, and in the hope of a glorious resurrection.
	And as teaohers of the Relief Society we feel to offer to
her memory the following:

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, in the Providence of our Heavenly Father He
has seen fit to take from our Society our sister, Emma
Maria Wood, and,
	Whereas, our departed friend and sister was worthy of
our warmest affection, we feel that proper recognition of
her goodness and virtue be had among us. Therefore,
be it
	Resolved, That we, as members of the Relief Society of
East Bountiful, deeply mourn the loss of our sister and
hold her name in affectionate remembrance.
	Resolved, That we extend our sympathy to her family,
and that we try to live that we may be prepared to meet
her, when we have finished our work here below.
	Resolved, that these Resolutions be spread on our record,
also a copy sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		ANN DUSTIN,
		JANE HOLT, Committee.
		ESTHER SESSIONS,


R. K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS.  Pumps Repaired on short notice.  Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address.  DAVID JAMES. Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

