VOL. 17.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 15, 1889.	NO. 16.


TREASURES.

"Will you keep my new knife, mother?
	I might dull the shining blade;
Please to keep it ready for me,
	Or I'll lose it, I'm afraid."
"Yes, I'll keep it for you, darling,"
	And I kiss the rosy lips,
While upon his golden ringlets,
	Softly rest my finger tips,

"Please to keep my marbles, muzzer,
	So zey won't get rolled away;"
"And my pretty bead and buttons;"
	And my top string, while I play."
Four dear boys thus bring their treasures,
	I must keep them all in reach;
Four loved forms to watch and care for,
	Four bright infant minds to teach.

As to me they bring their treasures,
	So to Thee, oh, God above!
I entrust them, ever praying,
	Keep them safely in Thy love.
And, lest I should spoil or lose them,
	'Mid earth's busy cares and strife,
Teach me, Father, how to bring them,
	Back to Thee with Endless Life!

		LULA


REVERIE.

We laugh when our souls are the saddest,
	We shroud all our griefs in a smile;
Our voices may warble their gladdest,
	And our souls mourn in anguish the while.

And our eyes wear a summer's bright glory,
	When winter is wailing beneath;
And we tell not the world the sad story
	Of the thorn hidden back of the wreath.

Ah! fast flow the moments of laughter,
	And bright as the brook to the sea;
But ah! the dark hours that come after
	Of moaning for you and for me.

Yea, swift as the sunshine, and fleeting
	As birds, fly the moments of glee!
And we smile; and mayhap grief is sleeting
	Its ice upon you and on me.

And the clouds of the tempest are shifting
	O'er the heart, tho' the face may be bright;
And the snows of woe's winter are drifting
	Our souls; and each day hides a night.
 
For ah! when our souls are enjoying
	The mirth which our faces reveal,
There is something—a something—alloying
	The sweetness of joy that we feel.

Life's loveliest sky hides the thunder,
	Whose bolt in a moment may fall,
And out path may be flowery; but under
	The flower there are thorns for us all.

Ah! 'tis hard when our beautiful dreamings.
	That flash down the valley of night,
Wave their wing when the gloom hides their gleaming,
	And leave us, like eagles in flight;

And fly far away nnreturning,
	And leave us in terror and tears,
While vain is the spirit's wild yearning
	That they may come back in the years.

Come back! did I say it? but never
	Do eagles come back to the cage:
They have gone—they have gone—and forever!
	Does youth come back ever to age?

No! a joy that has left us in sorrow
	Smiles never again on our way;


But we meet in the farthest to-morrow
	The face of the grief of to-day.

The brightness whose tremulous glimmer
	Has faded we cannot recall;
And the light that grows dimmer and dimmer—
	When gone—'tis forever and all.

Not a ray of it anywhere lingers,
	Not a gleam of it gilds the vast gloom;
Youth's roses perfume not the fingers
	Of age groping nigh to the tomb.

For the "memory of joy is a sadness"—
	The dim twilight after the day;
And the grave where we bury a gladness
	Sends a grief, like a ghost, on our way.

No day shall return that has faded,
	The dead come not back from the tomb;
The vale of each life must be shaded,
	That we may see best from the gloom.

The height of the home of our glory
	All radiant with splendors of light;
That we may read clearly life's story—
	"The dark is the dawn of the bright."

		A. J. R.


WOMAN SUFFRAGE MEETING.

AN ASSOCIATION FOR UTAH.

	An official call having been previously
issued, signed by influential women of the
Territory, for a meeting of suffragists, to be
held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall, Thurs-
day, January 10, 1889, accordingly, in re-
sponse there was a large number of ladies in
attendance, residents of Salt Lake City and
vicinity, and representative women from other
parts of the Territory. Upon the platform
were several prominent ladies—Mrs. Zina D.
H. Young and Mrs. Margaret P. Young, Mrs.
Emily S. Richards, Mrs. Lena Wells, Mrs.
Nellie Webber, Mrs. Lydia D. Alder, Mrs.
Charlotte I. Kirby, Mrs. Maria Y. Dougall,
Mrs. Birdie Cummings, Mrs. L. Ardelle Cum-
mings, Mrs. Phebe Y. Beatie, Mrs. Julia C.
Taylor, Mrs. Edith Knowlton and others. At
the reporters' table were seated Mrs. E. B.
Wells, Editor of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
and Mrs. R. B. Pratt, M. D. Opposite the
platform were Mrs. M. I. Horne, Mrs. Sarah
M. Kimball, Mrs. Jane S. Richards, Mrs. B.
W. Smith, Mrs. Mary Pitchforth,Mrs. Elizabeth
Howard, Mrs. Nellie Little and other distin-
guished ladies.
	Mrs. Zina D. H. Young stated the object of 
the meeting, and that Mrs. Emily S. Richards
had been duly authorized to preside and to
organize a Woman Suffrage Association for
Utah Territory, having been appointed Chair-
man of the Executive Committee for Utah at
the last Annual Convention of the N. W. S. A.
in Washington, D. C., April, 1888. Mrs.
Richards then took the chair and said, "Will
some one nominate a Secretary?" Mrs. M. Y.
Dougall noninated Mrs. L. D. Alder as Secre-
tary pro tem. Mrs. Ardelle Cummings seconded
the motion. Carried.
	The meeting opened with singing by the con-
gregation, "Know this, that every soul is free;"
and an earnest prayer was offered by Mrs. M.
I. Horne.
	The Chairman then requested the Secretary
to read the Call, which was responded to, and
the call was read.
	The ladies of Utah Territory who are inter-

[Column 2]

ested in the subject of woman's suffrage con-
template organizing a Woman's Suffrage Asso-
ciation.
	For this purpose a meeting of suffragists
will be held in the Assembly Hall, Salt Lake
City, on Thursday, January 10, 1889, com-
mencing at 2 p.m.
	All ladies interested in the cause of woman's 
enfranchisement and political advancement are
cordially invited to be present and take part
in the meeting.
			Respectfully,
		EMILY S. RICHARDS,
Chairman Ex. Com. N. W. S. A. for Utah.
		ZINA D. H. YOUNG,
	Prest. Cen. Board Relief Society.
		JANE S. RICHARDS,
		BATHSHEBA W. SMTIH,
Vice-Prest's Cen. Board Relief Society.
		JOSEPHINE R. WEST,
	Prest. P. A. Associations Weber Co.
		DR. ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
		ELIZABETH HOWARD,
		ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D.,
		E. B. WELLS,
	Ex-Vice-Prest. N. W. S. A. for Utah.
	Members National Woman's Suffrage Asso-
ciation.
	Chairman said, "You have heard the Call
and understand its object; we will now proceed
to organize."
	Mrs. M. Y. Dougall nominated Mrs. Margaret
Caine, President of the Woman Suffrage Asso-
ciation of Utah; the nomination was seconded,
and the motion put by the Chairman and
carried unanimously. Chairman suggested
that some one nominate three Vice-Presidents.
Mrs. C. I. Kirby nominated Mrs. Lydia D.
Alder as First Vice-President; seconded by 
the ladies on the platform; Chairman put the 
motion; carried. Mrs. L. D. Alder nominated
Mrs. Nellie Webber, Second Vice-President;
seconded by several of the ladies on the plat-
form; carried. Mrs. Ardelle Cummings nomi-
nated Mrs. Priscilla Jennings Riter, Third
Vice-President; seconded and carried. Mrs.
Birdie Cummings nominated Mrs. Cornelia
H. Clayton, Secretary of the Association; mo-
tion seconded and carried, and Mrs. C. I.
Kirby Corresponding Secretary; carried. Mrs.
Birdie Cummings nominated Miss Margie
Dwyer, Treasurer of the Association; carried.
Chairman said, "The appointing of an Execu-
tive Committe is now in order." Mrs. Alder
nominated Mrs. M. Y. Dougall, Chairman of 
Executive Committee, and the names of Mrs.
Nettie Y. Snell, Mrs. Ann E. Groesbeck, Mrs.
Phebe Y. Beatie and Mrs. Jennie Rowe were
then presented as members of such committee;
voted upon and carried. Chairman asked the
secretary to please read the Constitution of the
National Woman Suffrage Association. Secre-
tary read as desired.

CONSTITUTION.
	ART. 1. This organization shall be called
the National Woman Suffrage Association.
	ART. 2. The object of this Association shall
be to secure national protection for women in
the exercise of their citizen's right to vote.
	ART. 3. All citizens of the United States
subscribing to this Constitution, and contribut-
ing not less than one dollar annually, shall be
considered members of this Association.
	ART. 4. The officers of this Association


[Column 1]

﻿shall be a president, vice-president from each
of the states and territories, corresponding and
recording secretaries, a treasurer, and an exe-
cutive committee of not less than five.
	ART. 5. A quorum of the executive com-
mittee shall consist of nine, and all officers of
this Association shall be exofficio members of
this committee, with power to vote.
	ART. 6. All woman suffrage societies
throughout the country shall be welcomed as
auxiliaries, and their accredited officers or duly
appointed representatives shall be recognized as
members of the National Association.
	Chairman: "You have heard the Constitution
of the N. W. S. A., what is the pleasure of
the meeting?" Mrs. Alder: "I move it be
adopted." This motion was seconded by a large
number of ladies present, and the  Constitu-
tion was adopted.
	Chairman suggested that some one nominate a
Committee on By-Laws. Mrs. Dougall moved
that the Chairman appoint the Committee.
Chairman appointed Mrs. Lottie Young, Mrs.
Julia C. Taylor, Edith Knowlton, Committee
on By-Laws. Committee retired.
	While the Committee were out Mrs. C. I.
Kirby addressed the audience. She spoke of
the advantages to be derived from woman
suffrage, and presented some of her views and
the information she had obtained at home and
abroad in regard to woman's work and influence.
When Mrs. Kirby concluded, Mrs. Jane S.
Richards was called for, but declined; and Mrs.
Z. D. H. Young responded to her name, and
addressed the meeting. Her speech was elo-
quent and pathetic; she appealed to the heart:
her subject was, "Woman and Motherhood,"
and her ideas were so gracefully conveyed, that
every heart was touched in a tender place.
	The Committee came in and reported, and
Mrs. Julia C. Taylor read the "By-Laws and
Regulations." After the reading some one
moved that they be read and voted upon separ-
ately. The Secretary read as requested, and
the By-Laws and Regulations were adopted
separately. The following is a copy:

BY-LAWS AND REGULATIONS
			
ARTICLE I.
	This Association shall be called the Woman
Suffrage Association of Utah.

ARTICLE II. 
	The object of the Association shall be to
work for the enfranchisement, of all women,
without regard to party, sect, or creed, and to
take such steps from time to time as shall seem
to be wise and expedient for the political ad-
vancement of the women of this Territory.

ARTICLE III.
	The officers of this Association shall be a
President, three Vice-Presidents, a Secretary,
Corresponding Secretary and Treasurer, with
an Executive Committee of not less than five.

ARTICLE IV.
	All persons wishing to become members of
this Association must pay an initiation fee of
25 cts. annually, and must give or send their
names with the money to the Secretary, who
will present them in the order of business to
the next regular meeting for admission.

ARTICLE V.
	The officers of this Association, with the
Executive Committee, shall have power to
change or amend the By-Laws and Regula-
tions at any Executive session, and shall
then submit them to the regular meeting, where
they may be adopted by a majority vote.

ARTICLE VI.
	The Executive Committee shall devise plans
of work suited to the development and progress

[Column 2]

of the members of the Association, and co-
operate together with the members in encourag-
ing young people to speak, write essays and
discuss questions upon political matters and
civil government, and such other subjects as
relate thereto; and invite those not already in-
terested in suffrage, and encourage them to
become acquainted with the objects of the
organization.

ARTICLE VII.
	The names of delegates to the Annual Con-
vention of the N. W. S. A. at Washington
shall be presented and voted upon at the an-
nual meeting of the Association, previous to
said Convention, or a special meeting called
for the purpose. The Credentials of the dele-
gates shall be prepared by the Executive Com-
mittee and properly signed by the Officers of
the Association.

ARTICLE VIII.
	All official papers and documents shall be
signed by the President and Secretary, or, in
the absence of the President, Vice-President
next in order, and all official correspondence
must be signed by the Chairman of the Execu-
tive Committee and the Corresponding Secre-
tary.
 
ARTICLE IX.
	Regular meetings of this Association shall
be held once a month, and such business tran-
sacted as shall be brought to the attention of
the meeting by the Executive Committee or
the Secretary, or other officers, after which
miscellaneous business or discussion will be in
order.

ARTICLE X.
	A punctual attendance of the members is
particularly requested, in order to further the
interests of the whole, and to promote harmony
in all plans and methods of organized work.

ARTICLE XI.
	All local suffrage associations that may be
organized throughout the Territory, by adopt-
ing these rules, or similar ones, and the Con-
stitution of the N. W. S. A., shall be considered
auxiliaries, and their representatives or dele-
gates will be expected to attend a Territorial
Suffrage Convention should one be called, and
entitled to the privileges pertaining thereto.

	A suggestion was made in reference to dele-
gates to the National Woman Suffrage Conven-
tion to be held in Washington, D. C., Jan. 21,
22 and 23, and Mrs. Kirby nominated Mrs.
Emily S. Richards as one of the delegates,
which was seconded and sustained by unani-
mous vote. Mrs. Margaret Caine was then
nominated by Mrs. Alder, and the nomination
seconded she was chosen unanimously. The
Credentials for the delegates were alluded to,
and the officers were reminded that the Execu-
tive Committee were authorized to prepare the
Credentials. The ladies came forward and
gave their names to the Secretary, and about
one hundred were enrolled members of the
Association.
	An adjournment was moved, as there was
no further business, and the motion being
seconded the meeting was adjourned for one
month, notice of time and place of meeting to be
published by the Secretary.

OFFICERS.
		EMILY S. RICHARDS,
	Ch. Ex. Com. N. W. S. A. for Utah.
WOMAN SUFFRAGE ASSOCIATION OF UTAH:
	MARGARET CAINE,
		President;
	LYDIA D. ALDER,
		First Vice-President;

[Column 3]

	NELLIE WEBBER,
		Second Vice-President;
	PRISCILLA JENNINGS RITER,
		Third Vice-President;
	MARIA YOUNG DOUGALL,
		Ch. Ex. Committee;
	CORNELIA H. CLAYTON,
		Secretary;
	CHARLOTTE I. KIRBY,
		Corresponding Secretary;
	MARGIE DWYER,
		Treasurer.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


PLEASANT PARTY.

	A number of the officers of the Primary
Associations of Davis Stake met at the resi-
dence of Sister Aurelia S. Rogers, at Farming-
ton, Dec. 28,1888, to manifest their apprecia-
tion of her past labors, in the form of a sur-
prise, she having been confined to her bed for
nearly six weeks.
	Her First Counselor, Sister Julia Hess, was
unanimously chosen to take charge of the
exercises, which consisted of remarks from all
the sisters present, and songs from the Prim-
ary Hymn Book; also an original poem was
rendered by the author, Counselor Lucy A.
Clark.
	After listening to many expressions of affec-
tion and words of encouragement from the sis-
ters, Sister Rogers sat up in her bed and though,
very weak, said words could not express her
gratitude to the sisters who had come to see
her, for she would never forget it; though there
were some of the presidents absent, yet she
thought of them all, and all seemed as dear to
her as her own sisters. She cherished the love
and good wishes of the sisters more than gold
or silver. During her sickness she had been
near the “other side,” but thought that if God
would spare her longer she would serve Him
better. Feared that we allowed our minds to
dwell more on the things of this world than on
the things of God, which is not right; knew she
would be better. She blessed the sisters in all
their outgoings and incomings, and invoked
the blessings of God upon all His chosen ones.
The Primary hymn, “Nay, speak no ill,” was
sang, after which her Counselors presented her
with a beautiful plush wrap, bought by the
Primaries of the Stake, which was received
with gratitude unspeakable. The sisters then
sung, “The Spirit of God like a fire is burn-
ing,” and then the tables were spread, and
about twenty-five persons, including the Presi-
dency of the Stake, the Bishop and Counselors
and a number of brethren who were invited in
after the priesthood meeting, partook of a
bounteous repast, after which the brethren ad-
ministered to Sister Rogers, and then dispersed
to their several homes, feeling that it was good
to have been there.
		ANNA S. ROCKWOOD,
		KATE M. CHASE,
		ELIZABETH G. FORD, Committee.
		WEALTHY R. CLARK, Secretary.


Another meeting was held last week to pro-
mote the return of women as county council-
lors. The devoted ladies who are going to
make victims of themselves and test the eligi-
bility of women as candidates, are Margaret
Lady Sandhurst and Miss Jane Cobden, for
London, and Mrs. Massingberd, for the Lind-
say division of Lincolnshire. Both the two
first named ladies addressed the meeting at St.
James’s Hall on Saturday. The audience
was largely composed of ladies. The chair-
man, Mr. Channing, M. P., advised all lady
candidates to persist in their candidature, as
he believed that the first rejected nomination
would be the surest way of getting rid of the
barrier that some said existed.— Westminster
and Lambeth Gazette.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WHITE CHRYSANTHEMUMS.

	Born of the clouds and the darkness,
		Of the frosts and the early snow;
	When the summer blooms have faded,
		The beautiful Christ-flowers blow.
	All through the budding springtime,
		All through the summer's heat,
	All through the autumn's glory,
		They hide their blossoms sweet.
	But when the earth is lonely,
		And the bitter north winds blow,
	With a smile of cheer for the dear old year,
		The Christmas blossoms blow.

	Sweet as the dream of summer,
		White as the drifting snow;
	When our hearts are filled with grieving,
		The beautiful Christ-flowers blow.
	Not all the south-wind's wooing
		Opens their secret heart;
	Slender they grow and stately,
		Guarding their life apart.
	But when the earth is dreary,
		And heavy clouds hang low,
	With their tender cheer for the way-worn year,
		The Christmas blossoms blow.

	Sweetest of all consolers!
		Fairest of flowers that grow !
	When hopes and flowers have faded,
		The beautiful Christ-flowers blow.
	Bright in the cottage window,
		Sweet in the darkened room,
	Fair in the shortened sunlight,
		Cheering the dusky gloom.
	Oh, when our hearts are lonely,
		And clouds of care hang low,
	What blessed cheer for our dying year,
		The Christmas blossoms blow !
									—Selected.


AT THE RANCHE.

I write you as one in my Christmas letter,
As in life you have been for worse or for better;
God grant that the worst has all gone bye,
That "the better 'twill be in the year drawing nigh.
'Tis the birthday of Jesus, sweet peace to the soul
He can give, though dark billows may over us roll,
Let us thank Him for all of His mercy and love,
And pray He may guide us still onward above.
The past year brought shadow, but, too, it brought light,
The gleams of the morning still follow the night.
'Twas hard when another was called from the fold,
When the eold earth claimed our Mattie to hold;
But we all know she's called back unto God,
'Tis only the casket that sleeps 'neath the sod.
Close, close by her mother, whose last earthly care,
Was for the frail Mattie who needed her care,
Again can I hear her wild, pitiful cry,
"Oh, God! I can't live if my mother should die."
Don't think I am sorrowful, no, when I think
Of the joining again of that severed link,
I forget our own loss, our sorrow and pain,
When I know unto them 'tis an eternal gain;
I will not turn back the leaves of the past.
The light and the shadow over them cast,
For we have shared them all together,
The stormy and the pleasant weather.
I am thinking now of the children all,
With a loving wish for both large and small;
Johnie, the first of our precious band,
Born upon Zion's favored land,
Unto her colors be firm and true,
And the crown of the victor awaiteth you.
I cannot speak of them all apart,
But each hath a place in my inmost heart;
There's Belle and Nettie, and Minnie dear,
Have helped to brighten my pathway here.
Soon again may we have our Christmas tree
All together, and—let me see—
Let us appoint our committee here,
To take the lead in our reunion cheer—
Mamie and Susie, Jen and Fan
(You may find a better one if you can),
With the two Johns and Vaughan, that's seven,
Or had we not better have eleven?
For Georgie and Lucy, Alex and Sam


Will have to look out for a Juvenile Jam,
For there'll be a troop of them, little and big;
All tumbling and jumping or dancing a jig.
There's all of Sam's, with young Sam at the head,
Propitious all of the "trundle bed,"
With Belle's and Nettie's, and how many more
Are coming along from the heavenly shore?
And all the homeless, you know are mine,
There'll be quite a few of them to dine!
Minnie and Belle the two shall be
To receive our guests to the Christmas tree;
And Nettie shall sing,
	"Hush, my dear, lie still and slumber,
		Holy angels guard thy bed;
	Heavenly blessings without number,
		Gently falling on thy head."
			S. E. R.
Dec. 25th, 1888.


CHRISTMAS TIME IN MEXICO.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Well! here I am, away up in the mountains
of Mexico, and nearly Christmas, the time of
"Peace on earth, good will to men." How
strange the changes which occur, and we notice
them more when Christmas time comes, as we
look back from year to year, conning over the
gay and merry time of childhood, and the none
the less enjoyable occasions of more mature
years; such a train of thought is awakened that
it becomes a task to write, unless one had a gift
for dotting down one's thoughts as they come,
and making them more readable than I feel 
capable of doing.
	Where are the playmates of childhood? the
companions of youth? Time has no doubt
brought changes to them as great as to us.
How are the absent loved ones, and how will
they spend the holidays, are queries often put
by the children, bless them! Christmas has a
charm for happy, innocent childhood, no matter
how simple the preparations, how limited the
presents, the fact that they are made by loving
hands, makes them, I sometimes think, more
appreciated, than would be more costly ones.
	And after all a view of the fine display and
magnificent array of Christmas goods in the
show windows of Salt Lake, and that delight
of childhood, the Christmas tree, with its
weight of good things, cannot alone bring
happiness, even to our little ones. By the way
there is no lack of Christmas trees here, if they
do lack the trimming, for this is a land of
pines; we certainly have some magnificent
scenery here, and when viewed either in the
daytime by the light of the glorious sunshine,
or by the light of the full round moon, it seems
to me it would be hard to excel the crags and
peaks of the majestic mountains, the tall,
straight pines casting their shadows eastward,
and the evergreen oaks with their thick, dark
foliage, and over all the clear blue sky, the
twinkling stars, and mellow light of the moon,
the queen of night, forms a scene which is
indescribably lovely, and has a charm for me
which I cannot explain.
	I have been for a lovely walk with the
children, at the earnest solicitation of my
boys, and have enjoyed it very much; we
climbed their favorite peak, almost solid rock
seemingly, and yet with soil enough for a com-
paratively thick growth of trees, and from
which we can trace the winding of the river,
the "Peadris Verde," and across that, perhaps
a mile or two distant, a large group of curious
looking rocks, perfectly bare of vegetation,
which look like so many old castles of every
kind and description. I felt well paid for the
climbing, and returned with a bouquet of dry
grass, oak leaves, etc., and several varieties of
beautiful moss from the trees and rocks.
	On our way here a few weeks ago we passed
one peak of this range of mountains, which
was different to anything I ever saw before,
towering perhaps five hundred feet above us at


the side of the road.  It took but little stretch
of the imagination to convert the rocks at its
summit into multitudes of people, some gaily
and others grotesquely attired; one figure in
particular attracted my attention, that of an
old and venerable monk seated in an old-
fashioned, straight backed arm chair, just as I
have seen in pictures; some elegantly dressed
ladies just out on a shopping expedition.  But
I shall tire your readers, so adieu for the
present.					KATE.
	Sierra Madre Mountains, Mexico, Dec. 23,
1888.


SIMPLE SIMON.
     It is very ridiculous and altogether unbe-
coming for men who have come into this com-
munity as business men, and been patronized
by the people to turn round and berate those
who have never done aught against them,
merely, it would appear, for the sake of popu-
larity.  What other motive could prompt men
whose business interests are here, to go east
and voluntarily try to suggest a “holy crusade”
against a practice already legislated upon
severely by the Congress of the United States.
Ill-timed and in very bad taste are all such
speeches.  Whoever tries to climb up by pull-
ing another down, will surely meet his just
deserts.  It is in keeping with some others,
however, who wield the pen more than the
needle, who, living among the “Mormons,”
receiving their patronage, associating with
them in neighborhoods socially, and depending
upon them for friendly aid and assistance in
times of sickness, are constrained from their
very love of popularity, to misrepresent them
through the press and in public assemblies, be-
cause it is the fashion.  Now one can see
plainly that milliners must be a la mode, and
therefore perhaps should be excused, but what
grievance had this man to present to the Presi-
dent-elect?  had Gen. Harrison inquired “What
have you to complain of in Utah?” he would
doubtles have been forced to acknowledge, like
the other simple Simon, “Indeed I have not
any.”
	"Simple Simon met a pieman
		Going to the Fair;
	Said Simple Simon to the pieman
		Let me taste your ware;
	Said the pieman to Simple Simon,
		Show me first your penny;
	Said Simple Simon to the pieman,
		Indeed I have not any."
							MILLINER.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	No man can answer for his own valor or
courage till he has been in danger—Rochefou-
cault.
	Drinking water neither makes a man sick,
nor in debt, nor his wife a widow.—Spanish
Maxim.
	There seem to be but three ways for a nation
to acquire wealth: the first is by war, as the
Romans did, in plundering their conquered
neighbors—this is robbery; the second by com-
merce, which is generally cheating; the third
by agriculture—the only honest way wherein a
man receives a real increase of the seed thrown
into the ground, is in a kind of continual miracle,
wrought by the hand of God in his favor, as a
reward for his innocent life and his virtuous
industry.—Franklin.


The State University of Oregon has 15
women students.
     Mrs. Ednah D. Cheney is to write the life of
Louisa M. Alcott.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,  Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah  Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00.  Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates:  Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street,second
gate east of Deseret News Office.  Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

     Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.
SALT LAKE CITY,		       JANUARY 15, 1889.


[Column 1]

PASSING EVENTS.

	There are many interesting things transpiring
at the present time, that are worthy of record in
the history of this people, and yet the Latter-day
Saints are, most of them, more or less indifferent in
regard to the importance of the scenes and events
that are actually taking place among them day by
day, in fulfillment of the prophecies of Scripture
and of the servants of the Lord in modern times.
It is so natural to worship the past, to revere the
men and women who have lived and labored in
the ages gone by, and of whom history has re-
corded only their most sublime acts, but the real,
actual present is perhaps more prescient with
telling and significant realities, and those of
greater magnitude than any other age of the
world has ever been. It is the day and time to
which all the greatest men, seers and revelators
looked forward to and desired to see, "the dis-
pensation of the fulness of times," that glorious
day when all dispensations that have ever been
will "be welded together;" the keys of former
dispensations have been restored again, the turn-
ing of the hearts of the fathers to the children
and the children to the fathers has begun, and
those who live in this day are made partakers of
these wonderful blessings, and without appreciat-
ing their value. That there is a grand purpose in
what is deemed of little consequence, except as it
affects the Saints pecuniarily there is no reason to
doubt, and as for the riches of this world, it is not
to be considered in comparison to the greater
blessings the Lord has bestowed upon His people.
Certainly it is necessary to have sufficient material
wealth to build up Zion, but that will come in the
due time of the Lord, even if the government
takes away all the public property, that has been
accumulated since the settling of these valleys.
That it has been honestly earned and sacredly
given to build Temples and to beautify and adorn
Zion, that all nations might flock hither as has
been ages ago predicted, is verily true be-
yond contradiction. yet the designs of the
Almighty cannot be frustrated, and the Lord's
work will roll on triumphantly, and no power on
earth can stay its course, and those who persecute
the Saints are fulfilling the Scriptures, though
they know it not.
	The Church cases now pending before the
Supreme Court of the United States, in which so
much pertaining to rights of property, liberty and
privileges is involved, are of greater moment
than one is likely to think, unless viewing the
matter by the light of inspiration. The truth is
those who live in this era of the world's history
when so much is being accomplished in so short
a space of time, look at things with a natural eye,
do not perceive that God is in it all, and are not
therefore prepared to acknowledge His hand in
all that is coming to pass, but seek to solve by

[Column 2]

scientific laws known to the world of mankind,
the great problems that are being worked out by a
higher rule than any known to-day among the
children of men. A glimpse of divine light
seen occasionally and with the spiritual eye of
discernment, has proved how vast and incompre-
hensible are the plans of the great Creator of the
universe. His ways are indeed past finding out,
and He turns and overturns at His good-will and
pleasure. He has laid down certain rules for men
to walk by, certain laws to keep in order to obtain
a knowledge of the Gospel, and has promised
those who comply with these requirements a por-
tion of His Spirit, which shall bring things to
their remembrance; "it is the spirit of prophecy
and reveals future events." Therefore, those who
are in possession of the Spirit of God are likely
not only to know more of what is transpiring
around them, but to know concerning future
events, and to be prepared therefor; and the
satisfaction that such true knowledge must bring
with it, cannot be conpared to the wisdom of the
wise in the learning of the world. This was the
spirit that made Joseph great above his fel-
lows, and the same spirit that caused Joseph the
Prophet in this day and age to warn men to re-
pentance and seek unto the Lord, and gave him a
knowledge of what was to come to pass upon this
land. And some of the things he prophesied of
have already taken place, and others are near at
hand, nearer, it may be, than many even of the
Latter-day Saints are aware of.


[column 1]
RECEPTION AT DEVEREUX HOUSE.

	"But happy they, the happiest of their kind,
	     Whom gentle stars unite, and in one fate
	Their hearts, their fortunes, and their beings blend."
* 	  *	    *	      *	  *	    *	      *	*		
					What is the world to them
	"Its pomp, its pleasure, and its nonsense all,
	      Who in each other clasp whatever fair,
	High fancy forms, and lavish hearts can wish?"

     On Wednesday evening, January 9th, 1889, a 
wedding reception was given at the Devereux
House in this city, the occasion being the marriage
of two of the daughters of Mrs. William Jennings.
Miss Emma L. Jennings and Hon. J. E. Carlisle,
of Logan, Editor of the Utah Jaurnal of that 
place, were married in Logan on the third inst,
and Miss Maye C. Jennings and Mr. J. B. Farlowe,
of this city, were married the evening of the re-
ception, at Devereux House.  Judge Sanford per-
formed the ceremony at 6:30 p.m.  The reception
given in honor of the two young ladies was a
magnificent affair.  The beautiful and spacious
grounds were brilliantly lighted, indicating the
joy and festivity within, and the house itself was
fairly ablaze with light and beauty.  A band of
music was constantly playing in the upper hall,
which added much to the enchantment of the en-
tertainment.
     Hundreds of guests were present, all anxious
to pay their respects to the hostess and to con-
gratulate the newly wedded brides and bride-
grooms.  The house was decorated artistically
with fresh flowers and vines from their own con-
servatory, and the fresh blown roses and the
orange blossoms made the atmosphere of the
rooms fragrant with their sweet perfume, besides
adding greatly to the delight of the guests.
     The presents were far too numerous to be
separately mentioned, and we must therefore only
say they were sufficiently beautiful to satisfy the
most capricious young lady, and evidently the
new-made brides had many friends anxious to ex-
press their love and appreciation at this auspicious
time.
     The dresses of the two brides were in exquisite
taste and very becoming, although it is sometimes
said brides always look sweet, yet we are pre-
pared to testify Mrs. Carlisle and Mrs. Farlowe

[column 2]
certainly did look not only radiant in their bridal
attire, but the picture of ineffable happiness.
     The elegant parlors were filled with ladies and
gentlemen, who, after offering their congratula-
tions and good wishes, were seen talking in
groups here and there, and all seemingly enjoying
the happy moments as they flew.  The dining hall
was fitted up like a tropical bower, and beautifully
lighted with chandeliers, and the glitter of silver
and exquisite china and the tempting viands
cannot be described in words, but one might with
all propriety say,

"And the tables they groaned with the weight of the feast,
Nor yet had the laughter and merriment ceased."

     The party was a happy affair and a genuine
success, but the mother just about to part with her
daughters from their childhood's home wore a
very sober face.  Mr. and Mrs. Farlowe bade
adieu to the family and guests about nine p.m. and
departed for the West on their bridal tour.  Guests
were coming and going until a late hour, and it
was midnight ere the entertainment was over.
     The EXPONENT tenders its most sincere con-
gratulations to Mr. and Mrs. Carlisle and to Mr. 
and Mrs. Farlowe on the occasion of their mar-
riage, and wishes for them,

	"The path of peace and holy love;
	      May life continued joys renew;
	May hope not too deceptive prove;—
 	      May sweet contentment round them throw
	      Such bliss as may be found below!"


IN MEMORIAM.

CLARA D. YOUNG.

"Weep not that her trials are over, weep not that her race
	is run;
God grant we may rest as calmly when our work like hers
	is done!
Till then we would yield with gladness our treasures to
	Him to keep,
And rejoice in the sweet assurance, He giveth His loved
	ones sleep."

	It is seldom that one passes to her rest about
whom such a peacefulness lingered, and such a
sweet resignation overshadowed, as the sister
whose death we now with loving remembrance
record. We knew her in her youth, when all the
charms of early budding womanhood were just
springing into life, and from that time onward saw
her frequently, and was associated with her in
many of the scenes and events that have transpired
in the history of the women of this people.
	Although, as others have written before me, she
was of a reticent and retiring disposition, yet the
circumstances of her life brought her into public
notice. The very fact of her having married
Brigham Young, certainly one of the greatest
men of his time, and who made such a mark in
the world that all those connected with him are,
more or less, partakers of his fame, when in her
early girlhood, and her being one of the three
pioneer women who crossed the plains in '47, be-
fore any road had been marked out, or spot desig-
nated as a place of rest for the weary pilgrims,
these two events in her life history have immor-
talized her name, without any desire for fame or
celebrity on her own part. A great writer and 
poet once said, "Some people aspire to greatness
and some have it thrust upon them," and with
Sister Clara it was certainly unsought, but who
shall say it was not her destiny, marked out be-
forehand? Assuredly not the writer of this sim-
ple tribute to her memory. That she bore her
honors gracefully and without any affectation, all
her friends realize; and also that she shrank from
any mention of her name or any public demonstra-
tion of respect, even upon occasions when it was
positively a favor to the people for her to accept a
place of honor.
	Her home-life was beautiful under all conditions;


[Column 1]

she was sweet-mannered, gentle, patient and for-
bearing, and possessed in an eminent degree the
"charity that thinketh no evil." This characteris-
tic made her specially dear to many, and in all the
tender and sweet amenities of domestic life, her
example is of the highest order of excellence.
As a mother she was all that the word implies in
its best and highest sense, not only to the child-
ren God had given to her, but to those whose lot
was cast with hers, deprived by death of their own
mother. She left no duty unperformed for them
that their own mother could have done, and aside
from duty her love was as precious and as freely
given to the orphaned ones as to her own, as far
as human eyes could see. Her generosity to the
needy was well-known to her friends, though she
gave without the least shadow of ostentation, and
in the language of the Scripture, let not the left
hand know what her right hand was doing. Many
of the poor and the unfortunate will miss her
kindly deeds and words of comfort, for she was
verily a "friend in need" and "a friend indeed."
Her life is thickly sown with good seeds, that
must yield an abundant harvest in the time to
come, and she will assuredly reap a rich reward
from the fruits of her labors here below. It is
impossible to mourn long for such an one.

"So He calls them in from their labors, ere the shadows
	round them creep,
And silently watching o'er them, He giveth His loved ones
	sleep."

	And thus Sister Clara fell asleep, for it was only
like a gentle slumber; she looked the very picture
of repose and tranquility as she lay in her soft
flowing robes in the casket that only held that
which was mortal, for the pure spirit, freed from
its earthly tabernacle, had gone to join the beloved
ones behind the vail—husband and children,
father and mother, and many relatives and friends,
and the great rejoicing at her coming was doubt-
less more than equal to the sorrow for her depar-
ture from the loved ones here.
	Clara Decker Young departed this life about
four o'clock in the afternoon of January 5th, 1889.
Her death was quiet and undisturbed by any of
those dreadful paroxysms of pain that are so
shocking and terrible to those who are near and
dear, and can never after be effaced from the
memory. She fell asleep, as it were, and so
passed almost unconsciously away. Her illness
did not seem dangerous until the last two days
before her demise, and indeed it was not thought
necessary to send for her daughter who was
absent from home, until that time. But the crisis
was very near, and after receiving the dispatch
that told her of her mother's illness, she hastened
with all possible speed from Portland, whither she
had gone, but it was too late, the news of her
mother's death reached her upon her journey
homeward, but with the courage that often comes
with the deepest grief, she bore up wonderfully,
though the shock must have been very heavy, for
she had left her in her usual health, and with
every expectation of their meeting again in a very
short time.
	Mrs. Young was the daughter of Isaac and
Harriet Page Decker, and was born July 22nd,
1828, in Freedom, Cataraugas County, New York.
Her father's family moved to Ohio, Portage Co.,
in 1833, and in 1834 became members of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Bro.
and Sister Decker with their family gathered with
the Saints in Kirtland in 1837, and have ever since
remained with the body of the Church. Sister
Clara accompanied the family of Joseph Smith
the Prophet to Missouri in 1838, and was among
those who were compelled to leave that state on 
account of their religious faith. In 1841 she
came to Nauvoo, having previously lived in Win-
chester and in Warsaw in the State of Illinois,
after leaving Missouri, In the month of May,
1843, she was married to Brigham Young, and

[Column 2]

with him was an exile from Nauvoo, coming out in
the dead of winter to travel an unknown country,
and to share the trials and vicissitudes of a pil-
grimage to the wilderness. When Brigham
Young at the head of that famous pioneer com-
pany set out to find an abiding place for the peo-
ple who were exiles from home, Sister Clara
accompanied him, and was one of the first to tread
the soil of this mountain vale. When President
Young, after a brief stay here, had to return to
Winter Quarters, Mrs. Young must have had a
sore experience, but she bore that trial as she
did all others that she was called to pass through,
with the dignity of true womanhood, and never
faltered or wavered in her faith, or adherence to
the principles of the Gospel she had embraced
when so young in years.
	Sister Young has borne five children, two sons
and three daughters. One of the greatest sorrows
of her life was the death of her boys. She was
almost inconsolable for a time, but her grief was
not without an abiding hope of receiving them
again, where there would be no more death and
all tears be wiped away. She left three daughters,
and one who mourns her as sincerely as her own,
who shared her love and tenderness equally with
her very own. Five grandchildren are also left to
mourn her loving care and kindness, for she was
as tender and thoughtful of them as she had been
of her own little flock.
	The funeral services were held at her home on
Monday, January 7, at 12 m., President Seymour
B. Young presiding. The house was filled with
relatives and friends, who came to pay their last
tribute of respect and love, and many who could
not gain admittance manifested their appreciation
by remaining outside and around the gateways
during the entire service. The services com-
menced with the hymn, "Nearer, my God, to
Thee," sung by the quartette, Mrs. Edith Knowl-
ton, Mrs. Vilate Young, George D. Pyper and
J. D. Spencer. Prayer was offered by President
D. H. Wells, after which the hymn, "Unveil thy
bosom, faithful tomb" wes rendered by the singers.
Bishop O. F. Whitney delivered a very feeling
and eloquent address; he was followed by Elder
S. B. Young, who spoke in terms of praise and 
endearment of "Aunt Clara," and President D. H.
Wells spoke for a few minutes in a similar strain,
appreciative of the excellent traits of the de-
ceased. The quartette rendered in a tender man-
ner the beautiful hymn, "Come to me," and the
benediction was pronounced by Elder Robert
Patrick.
	The friends present were permitted to take a 
last look at Sister Young, and the casket was
carried from the house by the sons of President
Young and immediate relatives of the deceased.
There were many floral offerings, beautiful and
fragrant, and it was a tender and graceful expres-
sion of love to her children and family, but Sister
Young needed not these to beautify her remains,
for her memory is imperishable, and her good
name sweeter than the fairest blossom with which
her grave was strewn. May the living follow her
noble example, and when death shall come to
them may it be as peaceful and as grand as was
hers.
	A long line of carriages followed her earthly re-
mains to the cemetery, and after the coffin was
deposited in the vault, "Rest on the hillside" was
sung, and the dedicatory prayer was offered by
Elder Seymour B. Young. The grave was
covered and the funeral cortege wended its weary
way backward to the city leaving her in silence in
"the city of the dead."


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column One]

		    EDITORIAL NOTES.
	WE have received for publication minutes of
quarterly conferences of the Relief Society from
Tooele, St. Joseph, Bear Lake, San Juan and

[Column Two]

Bannock Stakes, which will appear hereafter in
the order of the dates.
	The Secretaries of the Relief Society in this
Stake of Zion are hereby particularly requested
to prepare correct semi-annual reports, and for-
ward them not later than the 25th of February,
to the Stake Secretary, Mrs. Elizabeth Howard,
No. 60, Fourth South St., Salt Lake City, in order
that a full and complete report may be made in
time for the Stake Conference. By order of Mrs.
M. Isabella Horne, President Relief Society,
Salt Lake Stake.
	The Secretary of the Central Board of the
Primary Associations is desirous of obtaining a
full report from each Stake of Zion for the com-
plete report to be prepared in time for the April
Conference, and this semi-annual report should
be ready ten days before, or about the 25th of
March. Consequently the reports from all points
ought to be in the hands of the Secretary as
early as the 10th of March at the latest, which
would give her then only two weeks time to pre-
pare them. It is a very important thing, and the
Presidents of Primary Associations in the several
Stakes of Zion, should see that this matter is
properly attended to, both as to correct figures
and statements and date of sending. Forward
the Stake reports to Mrs. Cornelia H. Clayton,
No. 137 Third Street, Salt Lake City.
	The Women of Utah throughout the Territory
should read the minutes, etc., of the Woman
Suffrage meeting, held in the Salt Lake Assembly
Hall, recently, and prepare for local organization
in each county at an early date. The National
Enrollment, too, should be continued,and effective
work done, in making preparations for statehood
and the suffrage. Women cannot be too well
informed upon political and governmental matters,
as the laws of the land are made and enforced as
as much in their behalf as that of the male popu-
lation of the country. Sixty yards of the National
Enrollment has already been sent to head-
quarters; the papers contained the names of
8,393 men and women. Mrs. Emily S. Richards,
delegate from Utah to the Convention of the N.
W. S. A. at Washington, was the bearer of these
papers.	
	The Christmas number of Zion's Home
Monthly is full of good reading matter. A cut as
Frontispiece portrays a winter scene. “The
Christmas Angels,” by Silverpen, is a prettily told
story. There are several original poems, one by
Lula, “I Want to be Close to You,” is a perfect
gem; “Beside the Garden Gate,” Sian, is sug-
gestive to young lovers, and “A Love Song” is in
fact what its title indicates; “The Growth of
Zion,” by Sian, differs in style from the other
poems in the number, but is expressive of its sub-
ject, and of “the gathering,” as predicted by the
prophets and fully embodies the quotation used,
“Give us room that that we may dwell;” “A Bir-
mingham Christmas Carol” and “Christmas Bells,”
are appropriate for the time of year, and call up
pleasant associations; “Mamma” is very tender
and sentimental; “What Does it Matter” is quite
a meritorious production, and the little recitative
poem, “No,” would be a good selection for the
Primary children; “Less Than Cost” is a select-
tion from the writings of Mrs. M. A. Kidder, and
contains sound advice. The great variety of
prose articles, original and selected, cannot fail to
please those who are fond of good reading. “An
Explanation” in the editorial column, defines the
position taken by the editor, and gives the reader
an idea of his motives and expectations. It is
true that we, as a people, should seek to promote
a desire for home literature of the very best
quality. There is a wide field opening for it, and
there is plenty of material for themes, in fact the
unexplored storehouse of home literature is inex-
haustible.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


RELIEF SOCIETY FESTIVAL.
	The Fifteenth Ward branch of Relief Society
gave a festival in honor of the widows and the
aged of the ward, in the ward hall, Jan. 8, 1889.
Sisters Binder, Dunkenson and Rudy, as super-
vising committee, were efficient in making the oc-
casion enjoyable. The Bishopric of the ward
honored the occasion with their aid and their
presence, and we were happified with the presence,
by invitation, of a few veteran sisters, Society
workers, from other wards. Some of Zion’s
sweetest singers graced the occasion, and en-
chanting music helped to banish care to the land
of forgetfulness. Bro. Elias Morris, ex-member
of the Bishopric, offered the opening prayer.
	Prest. S. M. Kimball said, “This gathering is
designed as a sociable;" she hoped a spirit o
sociability would prevail, and that we might have
a very enjoyable afternoon. A feast was prepared
for the body, after which she hoped we would
feast the soul.
	Seventy-nine surrounded the tables, who were
served by ready and willing waitresses. After
dinner came a season of social interchange of
thought, then music, interspersed with speeches,
wherein some interesting reminiscences were
made prominent. 
	Prest A. M. Cannon being present, related
some of his early remembrances. The hearts of
those convened seemed warmed and strengthened
to meet the vicissitudes and continue the journey
of life.
	The sisters regret that their accomodations were
not sufficient to reach more of the loved and re-
membered ones. We look forward, and with the
spirit’s eye see a time when, with unlimited ac-
comodations, we will enjoy a grand reunion amid
scenes of bliss unspeakable.
						   MINNIE GREY, Sec.


[column 1]
	   THE CHARACTER OF PORTIA.

     The tragedy of Julius Caesar is a true picture
of the tyranny, and ambition and jealousy, ex-
isting in the Roman Senate, as well as of the
oppression and rebellion found in the lower
classes of Rome.
     Conspiracy, treachery, murder, suicide, war
—the results of certain political relations, are
violently shown up.
     Naturally, in a play of this kind, women
would not appear as leading characters.  They
would be introduced as Sweet Portia was, just
for a moment, as it were, to take our minds
from conspiracy, daggers and blood, and let
them feel the more God-like influence of
chastity, love and constancy.
     She is there to soften and tone down the
harsh and angular lines of the picture; to
radiate the light of her innate loveliness even
to the dark and unsightly; to leave the story
of a life that all may with profit study.
     Portia was a typical Roman lady in the age
of Julius Caesar, and is a characteristic woman
for all time.
     In Plutarch's lives we read her noble history.
Although one of Shakespeare’s characters, she
is not created in his imagination; he has com-
prehended her and behold Portia is born again
in the play Julius Caesar!
     Portia was the daughter of a most honored
Roman, Cato; as she grew from childhood into
womanhood she became an ideal, and no wonder
is it, that the noble Brutus sought and gained
her for his wife.
     Portia seems but a milder and gentler copy
of her husband, her life became nothing, apart
from him.  He was "The ocean to the river of
her thoughts."
     When Brutus became involved in the con-
spiracy against the life of Caesar, he knew that
all the most valiant and brave men of Rome
ventured with him their lives and honor in the

[column 2]
enterprise, so he endeavored to hide from his 
countenance and actions everything that might
show a disturbed state of mind; with the public
he was successful, but his wife soon discovered
that something troubled him.
     Womanlike, Portia was anxious to know of
this thing, that she might show her love and
faithfulness by sharing his pain and grief, as
well as pleasures; she, therefore, asked,  but
was treated unkindly, and dismissed.  Afraid
to question further, she went away, "hoping it
but an affect of humor that sometime hath its
hour with every man."
     The Ides of March at length came, and yet
not day, Portia has not slept.  Sick at heart,
she discerned some six or seven men, their faces
masked even from the night, conversing in the
garden with her lord.  What does this mean?
Surely some great danger threatens Brutus.
Unhappy wife; until now she had been nour-
ished in the love and confidence her position
deserved.
     Portia determines to furnish some proof that
grief nor pain can overcome her, so she seizes
a knife and courageously plunges it into her
thigh, then she watched the grey light of dawn
begin to appear, heard the clock strike three,
saw the conspirators depart, then hastened into
the garden.
     “Brutus, my lord,”—that voice pierced his
soul—in his mind he was assassinating Caesar,
he turns to chide his wife for coming into the
“Rheumy air,” but Portia is not to be put off.
Unlike Cordelia, she can “heave her heart into
her mouth,” and with sainted eloquence now
pleads her right to share this secret; recalls 
with gentleness his late unkind manner; Upon
her knees and by her once commended beauty,
by all his vows of love and that great vow
which did make them one, she pleads.
     Tells him she should not need to kneel if he
were gentle Brutus, asks if she is to know no
secrets that appertain to him—if she is himself
but in limitation she is not his wife.  Brutus
says, "You are my true and honorable wife."
There is a world of loveliness in her answer:

    "If this were true, then should I know this secret.
	I grant, I am a woman, but withal,
    A woman that Lord Brutus took to wife;
	I grant, I am a woman, but withal,
    A woman well reputed, Cato's daughter,
	Think you I am no stronger than my sex,
    Being so fathered and so husbanded?
	Tell me your counsels, I will not disclose 'em;
    I have made strong proof of my constancy,
	Giving myself a voluntary wound
    Here in the thigh; can bear that with patience,
	And not my husband's secrets."

     Brutus exclaims: "O ye Gods!  Render me
worthy of this noble wife."
     Then he gently sends her away, promising
that she shall partake the secret of his heart.
     When Portia knows all the plans of the 
conspirators, she is almost distracted.  Brutus
went to the Senate house and the gentle wife
was left to wait in horrible suspense until news
 of the enterprise could come.  Her woman's
strength is scarcely great enough to keep the 
secret and she fears that by some word or
action she will disclose it; she imagines that
noise proceeds from the capitol, and sends
Lucius to Brutus and bids him say "that she is
merry."  Finally the suspense is so great that
she rushes to the Senate house herself, arriving 
just in time to hear the noise and uproar after
the assassination.  Portia swoons and is carried 
home dying, her attendants think, and report
to Brutus. 
     But Brutus even made his personal feelings
subject to Rome and liberty; so Portia was left
alone with her weak woman's heart, which had 
been shattered by the shocks of the day's 
events. 
     From this swoon Portia revives and lives to 
part with Brutus previous to his departure for

[column 3]
battle; she makes no show of grief in his pres-
ence, but once out of his sight she bursts into
passionate tears.
     No doubt the assassination of Caesar weighed
heavily on her mind, and assisted in rendering
her frantic.  But the greatest cause of suspense
and grief that she felt was in the absence of
her husband on the field of battle, and upon
learning that the opposing forces of Octavius
and Mark Antony were making themselves so
strong; she lost her reason entirely and her
attendants being absent, she swallowed fire,
and thus put an end to her unhappy existence.
				    ALICE E. MERRILL.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS. 

			BOX ELDER STAKE. 
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Box Elder Stake convened in the
tabernacle at Brigham City, on the 11th of 
December, at 10 o'clock a.m.  Singing, "Sweet
is the work, my God, my King." Prayer by 
Coun. Susannah P. Booth. Singing, "O, say, 
what is truth?" Minutes read and accepted. 
	Prest. Harriet Snow made some opening re-
marks; said, "I feel, myself, that the Relief So-
ciety is a very important organization; there are 
many duties to perform; we should improve and
strive to fulfill all our labors, that we may be 
a blessing in Zion; in doing good, in exercising
our minds and intellects, we will be more capa-
ble of accomplishing good." Prayed that we 
might be all blest this day in coming together. 
	Prest. Harriet Hunsaker: "I know the Lord
is with us; we feel a desire to be one in the 
kingdom of God. I know the Lord is able to 
bless us in bearing our trials."
	Prest. Meecham: "I am thankful this morn-
ing that I have been counted worthy to be one
among the Latter-day Saints."
	Prest. Harper: "I know this is the work of 
God; we must try to live our religion."
	Prest. Watkins, Fourth Ward: "We should
pray for each other, particularly so in sickness
or trouble; we should rejoice for the blessing of 
health."
	Coun. Susannah P. Booth: "In performing
our duties we must exert ourselves. It builds
me up to meet with my sisters. We should
find some time to read good books and the his-
tory of this Church. We ought to appreciate
and attend these conferences, while we enjoy
this privilege. I have no other desire than to 
be faithful by the help of the Lord."
	Prest Mary Jensen: "In looking around we 
see that no one can stand still in the kingdom 
of God; we should be very careful what we say
about one another."
	Coun. Olivia Widerborg: "God has given us
the greatest of all gifts, the light of the Gos-
pel. All clouds have a silver lining. We 
must restrain our young people in their pleasure
seeking, provide proper amusement for them. 
Let us watch our little ones; fearful crimes, 
secret sins are creeping in among our child-
ren."
	Adjourned till 2 o'clock. Singing. Bene-
diction by Prest. Harriet Hunsaker. 
	Afternoon session: Singing, "God moves
in a mysterious way." Prayer by Bishop
Nichols. Singing, "Should you feel inclined
to censure."
	Prest. Mary E. Snow: "We have a faithful
band of sisters in our ward." Explained how 
they had been blest in their labors in doing
good. 
	Emilia D. Madsen: "Unless the Lord will
give me a few words to say, I shall not be able 
to say anything that will comfort or benefit
anyone." Referred to our great responsibili-
ties and the blessings we enjoy, the comfort we
receive from associating together, to improve
every opportunity for good. "These are our
true talents; do unto others as we would like


[Column 1]

to be done by; seek for the spirit of the Lord,
that it may dwell in our hearts at all times, for
without it we will stumble and be unable to
fulfill our duties."
	Sister Jensen, from Bear River City, reported
that branch, the Prest. not being able to attend.
	Sister Harding: "Sometimes I ask the ques-
tion, do I realize the great blessings I enjoy?"
Referred to the apostacy of her mother; thought
it had been a stimulant to her. "Our enemies
cannot harm us, but we ourselves may go so
low that we cannot redeem ourselves."
	Sister Cook: "I know this is the kingdom
of God; our lives are made up of little deeds;
I believe if we do that which is not pleasing
in the sight of the Lord, it will be like a blot
on a blank piece of paper; let us strive to
realize and live up to our privileges."
	Sister Susannah Facer: "I think it is the
greatest blessing that we have trials, because it
brings out all that is bright in us, makes us
more useful, and prepares us for the reward of
the faithful. I have learned a great deal
through this persecution; it wakes us up to be
more diligent; every morning we should ask
our Heavenly Father to keep us in that narrow
path; we will not do a great deal wrong but
that small voice will whisper and tell us
whether our thoughts or actions are wicked. I
pray I may always feel the kingdom of God is
foremost in my mind."
	Coun. C. Kelley: "I have enjoyed this con-
ference very much. It may seem to you that
you do not accomplish a great deal, but if all
the good accomplished by the Relief Society
through the world was reported, it would show
a great work; but you have other duties, that
you may understand your position in connec-
tion with the priesthood. 'The man is not
without the woman nor the woman without the
man, in the Lord.' Show me a sister who
takes the counsel of prayer, and you will not
see many of her sons go astray; there is a love
in a mother's heart that would shield a boy
under all circumstances, but sometimes it is
misused." Spoke of the miseries and wicked-
ness in London; read some startling statistics
of the visitors to saloons in that city. "Thank
God we have not this in Zion, but we have
those in our midst who work for this end."
	Prest. Harriet Snow: "We should all strive
to attend these meetings for the good and the
growth of the wisdom and power of the sisters
in this Stake. Exercise meekness and love
one to another; exercise the principle of peace
and confidence; exercise faith and be prayerful;
beware of fault-finding, it leads downward.
May the Lord bless you, enlighten your minds,
quicken your understanding."
	Singing, "We thank Thee, O God, for a
prophet." Benediction by Coun. Olivia Wider-
borg. Adjourned for three months.
		EMILIA D. MADSEN, Cor. Sec.

SALT LAKE STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of Salt Lake
Stake was held in the Assembly Rooms, in the
Fourteenth Ward, Salt Lake City, Dec. 20th,
1888, commencing at 10 a.m. On the plat-
form were Prest. Zina D. H. Young and her
Counselors, Jane S. Richards and Bathsheba
W. Smith; also the Secretary, Sarah M. Kim-
ball. Prest. of Salt Lake Stake, Mrs. M.
Isabella Horne, presided.
	Conference opened with singing, "O, Jesus,
the giver," etc. Prayer by the Secretary,
Elizabeth Howard. Singing, "We thank
Thee, O God, for a prophet." The Secretary
read the minutes of the previous conference,
which were accepted, and the roll was called;
21 presidents and 3 counselors reported; each
one spoke of the Relief Society of her respec-
tive ward as being in good condition, and of
the good works being performed by the sisters.
	During the time of the reports being given
Prest. Zina D. H. Young addressed the confer-

[Column 2]

ence. Mrs. Young said she was pleased with
the reports, but thought this a time when our
meetings should be numerously attended. and
we should meet often to gain strength by con-
stant prayer, and calling upon God day and
night in supplication and draw near unto the
Lord; we need more faith to-day than ever; let
us neglect no duty; our tithes, our offerings,
and every duty should be diligently performed,
and she also made other excellent remarks.
	At the close of the morning session Prest.
M. I. Horne made some remarks, desiring
all who were present to come in the afternoon,
as there were some instructions to be given to
the Relief Society. Singing, "Lord, dismiss
us with Thy blessing." Benediction by Mrs.
B. W. Smith.
	Afternoon session: Conference continued.
Singing, "O, say, what is truth?" Prayer was
offered by M. W. Wilcox. Singing, "O, my
Father, Thou that dwellest." Reports were
then given by 5 presidents and one counselor,
after which Prest. Horne addressed the meet-
ing. She was glad to see so many present at
holiday time, when she knew there was so
much going on; urged the sisters to improve-
ment, and to examine their own hearts, and
see whether they had made much spiritual
progress during the past year, as it was now
verging on to the new year 1889; "let us deter-
mine to do better in the year to come; we want
to have our meetings conducted on parliamen-
tary rules; Prest. Jos. Smith predicted many
great things concerning the Relief Society;
women have always held responsible positions
when the priesthood was on the earth. We
should preside with dignity, and look to the
small items that pertain to our improving our-
selves and becoming Elect women. We have
been advised to gather and store up wheat by
the President of the Church, and to take care
of it for the time of famine, which is surely
coming. Doing our duty is the path of safety;
let us be patient and humble and ask our
Heavenly Father for grace sufficient for our
day, and we shall be blessed of Him; and let
us also seek Him for wisdom, that we may be
faithful unto the end."
	A letter from President Woodruff concern-
ing the wheat was then read.
	Prest. Z. D. H. Young spoke a short time;
said that all the instructions she had received
had come from God, our Father, through His
servants to the people; "and we know our duty,
and if we perform it we need have no fear, we
need not doubt. The kingdom will move on,
let us serve God and keep the still small voice
within us, get the Spirit of God and keep it;
let us have the bread of life, that we may have
a portion to distribute to some who have it not.
Can we not inspire our sons and our daughters
to serve God and keep His commandments, so
that none of them may marry outside of the
Church?" The revelation to Emma Smith
was then read, after which Sister Zina made
further remarks relating to the subjects men-
tioned.
	Coun. Jane S. Richards said, "When we
take time to examine ourselves we find many
little things to improve upon; our sisters who
stay at home lose by so doing; in their anxiety
to have everything nice for the little ones at
home, they forget this duty; still I do wish they
would come to meeting, that they might enjoy
the Spirit of the Lord. If there is sickness or
death in the family, that is a good excuse to
stay at home, and I pray for all such; let us
try, my sisters, to get near to God, that we
may have pleasure in doing good. I always
take pleasure in visiting the sick; the poor in
spirit are to be pitied; let us visit them and try
to give them strength. Though this is a day
of trial we enjoy the goodness of the Lord."
	Sister Helen Mar Whitney: "We have
more reason to be thankful to God than any
people on the earth; we have not much of this

[Column 3]

world's goods, but we should be grateful that
we are here, and not among those who are pro-
moting dissension and war. We are enjoying
comparative peace; let us read the words of the
Prophet, and increase our interest in the youth
of Zion; it is the wayward we should pray for;
let us be charitable and merciful one to another.
We are nearing the day of famine, and let us
be prepared for it."
	Coun. Bathsheba W. Smith wished the sis-
ters all "A Merry Christmas and A Happy
New Year," after which Mrs. E. B. Wells
spoke a short time on the subject of woman
suffrage, and thought it necessary to have an
organization for Utah, in order to use our in-
fluence with the women of the nation to ob-
tain suffrage for all. "The National Enroll-
ment papers were circulated for signatures, as
one of the helps to obtain it; there would soon
be an organization formed, and a meeting
would be called for the purpose." She hoped
it would be a large and influential gathering,
and that good would be the result.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing, "When shall we all meet again."
Benediction bp Bro. Barnes.
		ELIZABETH HOWARD,
			Secretary S. L. Stake. 
	The Primary Conference of the Salt Lake
Stake of Zion was held Dec. 22nd, 1888, in the
Assembly Hall, in this city, Mrs. Ellen C.
Clawson presiding. Opened with singing,
"Gladly Meeting." Prayer by Prest. Louie
Felt. Singing, "Hope of Israel." Roll called.
Minutes of last conference were read and ac-
cepted. Recitation, a boy from the 10th
Ward; Miss Folsom, 14th Ward, sang, "Open
the Gate.
	Prest. Louie Felt made a few remarks; told
of her visit to the Temple, and wished all "A
Merry Christmas and A Happy New Year."
	A little girl from the 10th Ward recited,
"No flowers on Papa's Grave;" Duet, by two
girls from 15th Ward. Remarks by Coun.
Lillie Freeze; she advised reading from the New
Testament. A little girl from the 17th Ward
recited, "Christmas Eve;" Song, by three girls
of Sugar House Ward, "Happy Children;"
Song, by the little ones, "The children are
praying for me;" Coun. L. A. Wells made in-
teresting remarks; Recitation, a little girl of
the 11th Ward, also by Jos. Williams of the
21st Ward.
	Coun. C. C. Cobb addressed the children in
a very pleasing style; prayed that all would
have a good Christmas and a Happy New
Year.
	Essay on Truth, by Annie Hagman of the
19th Ward; Recitation, by a boy of the 7th
Ward; a little girl of the 17th Ward recited,
and Prest. Clawson made some closing remarks;
expressed her pleasure with the meeting, and
urged the children to remember all those who
were sick in their prayers. Prayed that the
Lord would bless all the children and help
them to do right.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing, "Marching Homeward." Benediction
by Bro. Evan Stephens.
		BESSIE DEAN,
	Stake Secretary P. A.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


PRIMARY ENTERTAINMENT.
Editor Exponent:
    Dear Sister:—As we seldom see anything
in the columns of your paper from our quiet
little town, we thought, perhaps, a few lines
from our Primary Association would be inter-
esting to others who, like us, are laboring for
the benefit of the little-folks.
    On the afternoon of Christmas day our As-
sociation at Virgin City gave an entertainment
in the meeting house which consisted of songs,
dialogues, recitations, essays, speeches, music


from Harmonica Band, etc.  The children all
took their parts splendidly, and did credit to
themselves by singing and speaking so well. It
would be unjust to mention any names, as all
did so well.
	After the exercises were through with, good
old Santa Claus made his appearance, took
down the curtain from a well loaded Christmas
tree, and with his aids distributed presents to
the children; there were none forgotten; the
orphans, also our missionaries’ little ones were
kindly remembered, and all were made glad
and happy.  The children were then treated
to candy, cakes and nuts, after which Bishop
L. W. Beebe made closing remarks; expressed
himself as much pleased with the entertain-
ment, and asked the blessing of God upon all
present.
	All the ward turned out, the house was
crowded, and all felt well paid.  The day will
long be remembered by our little folks.  We
remain, as ever,
			Your sisters,
		MINERVA PRATT, President
		ELEANOR SPENDLOVE,
		MARY A. BEEBE, Counselors.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PRIMARY BOYS.

	Christmas morning—bright and beautiful—
while I sat quietly thinking of the many
children that were made glad by kind old
Santa Claus, and wondering if the teachers of
the youth of Zion were doing much good—all
at once I heard sweet music and singing.  Open-
ing the door I saw five little boys, aged from
six to eight, with drums and banjo, and such
sunny faces, and they saluted me with, “A
Merry Christmas to you.” I felt and said,
“God bless all the dear children!” To me it
was like bread cast upon the waters, found on
a Christmas morning.  I want you to know,
Mrs. Editor, that these boys belong to the
Sixth Ward Primary of Logan, and their
names are, three little John Benches, Charley
Thorp and Willard Jones.
	How sweet it is to be remembered by the
boys of the Primary ! May they live long to
do good, and obey their parents and be kind to
the poor and the aged; and I want to express
A Happy New Year to all the Primary child-
ren, and also to the old and young, through
the medium of the EXPONENT.
	Our Primary is in a healthy condition, and
well attended by officers and children, and I
wish A Happy New Year to the EXPONENT.
						EMMA PIKE.


PROPOSED AMENDMENT OF BASIS
	OF REPRESENTATION FOR
		N. W. S. A., 1889.

TO CHAIRMAN OF COMMITTEE:
	Each vice-President of the National W. S.
A., shall (after consultation with, and with the
approval of the Executive Committee for State
or Territory), appoint delegates to the annual
Washington Convention from such members
of the N. W. S. A., as reside in her State or
Territory.
	Each State or Territory shall be entitled to
one delegate.
	Any State (or Territorial) Suffrage Associa-
tion which is auxiliary to the N. W. S. A.,
shall send two delegates by virtue of such
auxiliaryship, and shall appoint them at its
annual convention.
	Any State (or Territorial) Suffrage Associa-
tion may become auxiliary to the N. W. S. A., 
by the payment of twenty-five per cent of its
annual membership-fees.  Any individual may
become a member of the N. W. S. A., by pay-


ing an annual fee of one dollar into the Trea-
sury.
     Each State (or Territory) may send one
delegate for every twenty-five dollars, or frac-
tion thereof, paid into the National Treasury.
     All officers of the N. W. S. A. shall be ex-
officio delegates at large with the power to
vote. Members who are neither officers nor
duly accredited delegates, may be present at
business meetings, but (with the exception of
members from isolated States or territories
where there is no Suffrage society) such mem-
bers shall speak and vote only by the unani-
mous consent of the delegation.
			LOUISA SOUTHWORTH.

		  OFFICIAL NOTICE. 
To the Officers Of the National Wo-
        man Suffrage Association:

     The Secretary of the N. W. S. A. some
months since addressed a personal letter to each
officer of the Association, requesting her views
as to the most effective methods of work during
the ensuing year. This was done that from
the collective wisdom so garnered, the execu-
tive committee could formulate the best plans
for advancing our reforms.
     It was asked that replies should be in the
hands of the secretary by January 10, 1889, in
order to give time for their digest and due
arrangement; it is hoped this has already been
done. But should any official thus far have
failed to reply she is begged for an immediate
response—letters to be sent to Mrs. Rachel
Foster-Avery, Riggs House, Washington D.
C. All vice-presidents are requested to make
short succinct reports (replies to be sent as
above) of the work done in their respective
states and territories during the past year.
     It is through such general interest shown at
the time of our annual Washington conven-
tion, that our reform progresses. It is hoped
that a large number of delegates elected upon
the new Basis of Representation will be pres-
ent.
      Let this session of the Fiftieth Congress be
also made memorable through the large num-
ber of individual petitions for the removal of
political disabilities, as recommended in the
present year. Such petitions are in the highest
degree educational both to Congress and the
country, going through the associated press to
all parts of the United States.
				MATILDA JOSLYN GAGE,
				Chairman Ex. Com.

[column 2]
Training School for Nurses
     On February 4th, 1889, I will open a Training
School for Nurses; the object being to make edu-
cated nurses of women and girls, and prepare them
for competent work either in hospital or private
practice, so that skilled service can be furnished
and good pay demanded. The instruction will be
similar to that of the Boston Training School, and
will occupy a period of three months. Those not
prepared to enter at the beginning of the course,
may do so later, and preceding lectures will be
made up to them. Special arrangements can also
be made for obstetrical teaching.
	TUITION,	-	-	-	$25.00.
     For further Information, address,
				DR. M. P. HUGHES,
     P. O. Box 575,		      Salt Lake City, Utah.
     Or for personal interview, at office, at 2 p.m., at 
Cor. of South Temple and First East Sts.
Martha P. Hughes, M.D.

R.K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail 	
Cash, House.
R.K.THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S 
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in	
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES, 
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS, 
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES, 
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS. 
Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street

DAVID JAMES & CO., 
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS 
Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from 
the country promptly responded to. 
Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Eleven women are studying in the Univer-
sity of Lund, in Sweden.
	
	There are about 70,000 lace-makers in Nor-
mandy, and in all France there are nearly
200,000 women engaged in this industry.

	There are more than 2,700,000 women in
Belgium engaged in industrial pursuits, mostly
very poorly paid.  But when one woman asks
to be a lawyer—a profession in which ability
commands honor and profit—her application is
is refused by the court, and she is told that a
woman’s sphere is to marry, not to labor for
her own support.

	The Women’s Medical College of Philadel-
phia is in its thirty-ninth year, and is the
largest women’s medical college in the world.
It matriculates this year 160 students, among
whom are one each from Japan, China and
Australia, the others being from nearly every
State in the Union.  Its course consists of
three years, with an additional year’s study
which is optional with the students, but which


is recommended by the institution.  An effort
is being made to endow a Chair of “Preventive
Medicine.”	
	Mrs. Lide Meriwether, president of the Ten-
nessee W. C. T. U., in her annual address
before the State Convention of Knoxville,
urged the importance of the problem of work-
ing-girls’ wages in connection with the work of
social purity.  She tells of a letter written by
a young working-girl of Auburn, Mass., to
her mother, not complainingly, but as a simple
matter of fact, saying, “1 am doing stockings,
and get fourteen cents a dozen.  It takes me
two good days to do one dozen, but I am going
to try to do more next week.” This is no ex-
ceptional incident, but one of many.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
