A TESTIMONY.

	I was born March 18th, 1813, in Windsor,
Hartford County, Connecticut. Was baptized
into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints August 27th, 1843, in Westfield, Mass.,
by Ezra T. Benson. Gathered with the Church
at Nauvoo September 27th of the same year.
The doctrine of plural marriage was taught to
me in November by Ezra T. Benson, by the di-
rection of Brother Hyrum Smith. Another
sister, a married lady, was present. The princi-
ple had been taught to her by Brother Joseph
some months previous, and she received it like
a young bird does its food from its mother, as
she did everything the prophet presented (these
were her words to me). I could not accept it
quite so readily. I will never forget that even-
ing, and for days my heart seemed bursting with
its agony. I had been a Baptist from my child-
hood, and had been accustomed to go to the
Lord with all my troubles, and for days and
nights I did nothing but pray and weep. Ezra
and Pamella, my sister, tried to comfort me, but
I could get no comfort until, as I awoke from a
troubled sleep, after I had been grieving, a voice
sounded in my ears, it is truth. Whether I
heard with my natural ears I cannot tell, but I
heard it distinctly. This was repeated on the fol-
lowing morning, and light, joy and gladness
filled my heart. All this transpired more than
forty years ago, and I have never since doubted
the truth of this principle, which is everywhere
spoken against.
	I have written this because it placed plurality
of wives beyond a doubt in my mind, and ever
made me feel that my marriage was honorable
in the sight of God, and eventually would be in
the sight of man, and hoping it would help to
strengthen the faith of others in the truth of
Mormonism.
	I wish to bear my testimony to it before I
"pass beyond the river."
	April, 1844, I entered into the order of plural
marriage, and became the wife of Ezra T. Ben-


son; and although I have had many trials to
pass through I have never regretted it. Those
that entered this order in the early days know
what trials are, but they are passed, and many
have overcome to a great extent. This Gospel
is true, every principle of it, and it will never
be overthrown. The nearer I come to the be-
yong the plainer I see my failures to do my
Father's will, and I cry out in my weakness,

"Nearer, my God, to thee, nearer to thee;
Although it be a cross that raiseth me."
