WASHINGTON'S HOME.

	One beautiful day in August our small par-
ty of three set out about 10 o'clock a.m. to vis-
it Mt. Vernon. We stepped into a street car
which carried us to the river, and after much
pushing and asking many questions, we suc-
ceeded in boarding the steamer bound for that
point. For the first few minutes we were in a
state of excitement hearing some women say
that this was not the Mt. Vernon steamer, but
'twas not many minutes before the Capt. ap-
peared upon the scene, and he soon quieted our
fears. The boat was small and terribly crowd-
ed, and it seemed to me I had never seen so
many children since I left home. Our little
brown eyed third person seemed the nucleus
around which all the children congregated
with apples, sugar plums, bread and butter,
cakes, etc., for children never seem to feel an
excursion is an excursion unless they have
their hands and mouth full of something good
to eat. It was quite amusing to see these little
ones enjoying themselves by daring acts and
to hear the poor mothers exclaiming, "you will
lose your hat; there, I knew you would drop
your handkerchief; will you quit leaning over
the railing? I shall never try to take you
children any place again." Such were the
ejaculations of each fond mother, and never
once did the children settle down, and never
once did the mothers lower their voices.
	On the otherside of the boat the young peo-
ple had seated themselves, and with their com-
panions were enjoying themselves in a quiet
way, admiring the scenery and occasionally
glancing at the noisy children on the other
side. We enjoyed the whole affair immensely;

[Column 2]
the scenery along the Potomac was beautiful,
the breeze refreshing, and all this, with the
happy music of the children's voices, seemed
to fascinate me so that I felt rather disappoint-
ed when the boat made a sudden stop and the
Captain called for those who wished to stop at
the Grove. Then "there was hurrying to and
fro," the children cried, mothers scolded, some
told the captain they knew he would start be-
fore they got off; but at last they all stood on
the shore, their baskets half empty, and their
faces as smiling as a sunbeam.
	It was not many minutes before we pushed
off again; all the little ones had left us, and al-
though it seemed quite lonesome, yet I confess
we had a much better chance to see the sur-
rounding country, for our attention was so
unavoidably drawn to them while they re-
mained. While chatting about the scenery,
the life of Washington, whose home we were
about to visit, the time passed rapidly, and we
could hardly believe our ears when some one
says this is Mt. Vernon. The boat stopped,
and as every one else seemed to be getting off,
off we got, too. We had not walked many
steps from the landing, however, when we saw
a colored man who immediately, on seeing us,
sung out, "Dis way for de excursion wagon."
We paid our ten cts. and got into the carriage,
supposing it to be some distance to the tomb,
but in about two minutes our colored friend
sang out, "Dis is de tomb of de great Washing-
ton; those who wish to look around may alight
and walk the rest of the distance." So, not-
withstanding our dime we concluded that we
wanted a good look and so allowed him to
drive off without us. We seemed to be about
the only strangers, the others had come mere-
ly for a day's out and a rest from the bustle of
the city; so most of them remained in the car-
riage, and those who stopped only seemed to
give a passing glance and then walk off to some
other parts of the grounds, so that we had an
opportunity of gazing without being gazed up-
on, and our remarks did not have to be whis-
pered, but we gave full vent to our feelings.
	The tomb was of red brick, and built on the
side hill, and would have looked quite old and
dull had it not been for the beautiful vines
which covered it and the bright wild flowers
that spotted the grass, these lit up by the bright
summer sun, looked anything but gloomy.
There were no cultivated flowers, but wild ones
blossomed in abundance, as if they, sweet em-
blems of the dead, spoke of him and told us,
for the thought would come, that he needed no
marble tomb or costly monument, but that his
deeds were engraven on each true heart, the
place from which they sprung.
	From the door, which was made of iron
bars, we could see into the tomb, where all was
white and deathlike. From here we followed
the others to the old tomb, but there were just
a few old boards left there to mark the spot
where he had first been laid. As we felt anx-
ious to see the house and the many old relics
therein, we hurried towards that point. The
house stands just on the banks of the river,
and it would be difficult to imagine a more
lovely spot than Mt. Vernon, with the river
flowing smoothly in front, with its many boats
and steamers gliding softly by. The grove,
with its sequestered nooks and rustic seats, the
well kept grounds, with their choice shrubs
and trees, and the large conservatories with
their collection of plants, all combined to
make it just what the home of such a man

[Column 3]
should be. The house faced the river, though
both east and west sides are called fronts, very
long and of white color, the servants quarters
and offices are joined to it by long covered
walks, such as we call porches, is, of course,
decidedly old fashioned, and to me seemed
very grand, although some of the rooms up
stairs were quite small, but this, of course, was
an evidence of its age. The rooms are said to
be fitted up just as in his lifetime; the furniture
was elegant, yet so quaint and old that I could
imagine the forms of those long passed away
gliding softly through the rooms. There are
some few of the better furnished rooms where
visitors are not allowed to enter, these have
bars across the doors.
	An association was formed some years ago
called, The Ladies Mt. Vernon Association; it
was formed for the purpose of keeping the
house in good repair and leaving some one
there to attend to it and to show strangers
around. These ladies have recovered most of
the original furniture and have worked hard
to keep the house in its originial style, so that
it is almost, if not quite, as it was in Washing-
ton's life time. We could scarcely tear our-
selves away from the house, but finding it past
lunch time we went out, thinking we could pro-
cure some lunch there, but, alas, each little
group had their little basket; this looked sus-
picious, but we went to an old colored lady
who was in charge of the house, but could not
prevail upon her to sell us anything. It was
unfortunate for us the first day that lunch had
not been served there, and so we had to make
the best of it and enjoy our picnic as best we
could without any picnic at all. We wandered
about for some time and then went down to
the river side to wait for the steamer. While
waiting there we noticed that all the boats
stopped in front of the house and tolled their
bells; this seemed to me a very sad and sweet
remembrance.
	'Twas not long ere our boat arrived and we
were on our way back to the city; the air was
delightful in the cool of the evening, the music
furnished by two Italian harpists sounded very
sweet on the water. On arriving we took the
car again, which was crowded to the uttermost
part with a party of little children, I counted
thirty. They were all dressed alike in little
gingham dresses and white sun bonnets. They
looked very neat and pretty and never having
seen so many sweet little girls dressed all alike,
I enquired of a gentleman near me who they
were, "They are little orphans," said he, "and
that old gentleman at the other end of the car
takes care of them all, clothes, feeds and
teaches them for nothing except the love they
give. He has been taking them on an excur-
sion to-day, see how happy he looks." And
indeed he did look happy, and each of these
beautiful children would look up at him
and smile so sweetly. I asked if he was
wealthy, for he looked quite shabby.
"Oh, no! he has devoted his life and
means to the orphans." What a sweet
task, and yet how few are so generous
and good. Some of the gentlemen in the car
held two or three of the little girls in their
arms, and I saw not a few dimes slipped careless-
ly into the little dimpled hands, and many an
eye filled with tears as they saw the smile of
gratitude that beamed from those sweet child-
ish faces. Thus ended the day so gloriously
spent; one never, never to be forgotten.
