SILK CULTURE.

	Considerable interest has been manifested of
late years throughout the United States regard-
ing this industry. Many Associations are en-
tirely devoted to its interests; the State of Cal-
ifornia has appointed a special committee; and
made a large appropriation from the state
treasury to forward its interest in general. The
committee has issued circulars requesting all
silk raisers not to sell any cocoons out of the
state, as all that can be raised will be required
at their own Filature, they also advertise to
purchase cocoons from any other silk raisers in
the United States. Utah is pronounced by all
who profess to know anything of the subject to
be second to none in natural resources for "silk
culture," and there are in existence throughout
the Territory, mulberry patches sufficient that,
if used as silk producing food, would realize
thousands of dollars annually, with such a near
market as California.
	The primary object of planting these mul
berry patches, we are aware, was "home indus-
try;” to raise the silk and manufacture it in
the Territory, was the aim. Having failed so
far to accomplish this fully, nearly all interest
in the matter has been lost, and many have
talked of cutting down and uprooting the trees,
if, in fact, some have not already done so; but
we are glad to learn that there are still a num-
ber standing. Nearly all are aware of the ob-
stacle that stands in the way of successful prog-
ress, it costs too much to reel it, and the pro-
duction is so small by all methods which have
been tried that it does not pay. We do not
wish to occupy space and time in writing upon
points connected with this subject, but come at
once to the point aimed at in this short arti-
cle.
	We have been endeavoring for nearly a year
to push to a successful issue the manufacture of
silk dress goods and handkerchiefs from for-
eign material, not having the necessary ma-
chinery for the manufacture of native silk, and
although we have not gained all we started for,
we feel assured we can go on and make a suc-
cessful business of it; but we are not satisfied
to do this, as the manufacture of native silk
has been [--]th us, as with our predecessors, the
main poi[--]
	We are happy to be able to state that we
have now in process of construction a combina-
tion reel, which can be made to run from one
to six or any number, all driven by one shaft,
at the same time, separately governed by an
"electric stop motion,” which stops each separ-
ate reel the moment a fiber gives out, either by
breaking or otherwise. By this means w.e, will
be able to reduce the cost of reeling by the quan-
tity produced, so as to effectually remove the
obstacle to the use of native silk in this branch
of industry, as by this method one reeler can
attend to a number of reels. Nothing more
need be said on this point. 	L
We will be prepared in the fall, or as soon as
cocoons can be raised and properly dried, to
purphase from one to two thousand pounds
of cocoons for our own use, and will pay the
highest market price for all first class, well
dried and cleaned cocoons. Must be free from
double and ready for use, $1.25 per pound if
exchanged for silk goods of our own make at
wholesale prices, or if in cash 1.00 per pound.
We will also furnish eggs if the different asso-
ciations will find out how many will be want-
ed, and make the necessary arrangements for
purchasing and forwarding the same; or we
will give the necessary information where eggs
can be purchased and forwarded to any ad-
dress. The latter method we would prefer, as
our hands are full of other matters; but the
great importance of attending to this matter at
once is apparent to all concerned. We there-
fore urge upon all who can to try once more
and see if by our own persistent efforts, togeth-
er with the blessings of God, we cannot make
the silk industry of Utah what it ought to be,
second to none in the United States.
All letters, whether of inquiry or orders for
eggs, to be addressed to James L. Chalmers,
Silk Factory, Salt Lake City.


﻿A number of letters written by George Eli-
ot, to "a friend abroad," have been published
in the Jourual des Debats. It is thought these
letters were addressed to Madame Bodichon.


