WHERE ARE WE DRIFTING TO.

	I never go from home to the larger towns of
our Territory but the prevailing extravagance
in dress strikes me painfully. Do I not like to
see people neatly and tastefully dressed? Yes;
but neatness does not call for extravagance. I
have seen ladies (for true ladies they were)
look better in a neatly made calico, or lindsey
dress, than many others in a profusion of silk
and satin. But, says one, we must keep up
the style of our "set" or give up our claim on
refined society. Indeed how long will your
"set" cultivate your acquaintance or acknowl-
edge your claim on refined society after it be-
comes known that you cannot meet your obli-
gations? Or which of your acquaintances
would undertake to support you in your old
age because you have spent all your earnings
to keep up the style of your set? Folly and
vanity!
	Before the desire of appearing other than
we are took hold of this people, each family
lived, not as their friends did, but as their in-
come allowed, having also a care to save some-
thing for a rainy day. But to-day we buy a
fine bonnet, not because I really need it, but
because my neighbor has a new bonnet, and I
won't be outdone by her. Then the new bon-
net calls for a new wrap, dress, shoes, etc, and,
by the bye, nice apparel looks out of sorts with
faded carpets and shabby curtains—well, I
need not portray any more of it, you know
that before half these renovations are made
debts are incurred which need not have been.
That is not all. This pride is also a thief of
time; to keep up with style things of a greater
importance are left undone, fashionable calls
take up the time we used to spend in comforta-
ble chats with the children; altogether, we are
not as happy as in the days of our simplicity.
I do not mean to say that the laboring classes,
farmers included, should not have any taste
for dress, or enjoy the means they earn by hard
work; oh, no! It is because there is no real or
permanent happiness, but sure ruin, in the vain
endeavor to ape the rich, that I would warn
them. I can understand readily how young
couples, starting out in life, can make financial
mistakes, as they are just learning their first
lesson in practical arithmetic. Poverty is no
disgrace when it is not brought about by indo-
lence and extravagance. Mary, the mother of
Jesus, was the wife of a carpenter, and I do
not think she dressed beyond her station in
life on account of her relationship to the Sav-
ior. No, He was not of the world! Then why
should we be?
	If the world takes (or mistakes) the display
of riches for the badge of refinement, let us in
Utah "tack about ship" and make talent and
intrinsic moral worth the badge of our refined
society, if any distinction we must have. Un-
less we teach our youth to steer clear of false
pride, they will drift to social ruin. Shall we,
with the light we have, pattern after the world?
Heaven forbid! Let us arise and shake this
vanity from our midst before its shackles bind
us fast and make us a derision to the world to
whom we should be as the salt of the earth,
and as a light on a hill top.
						E. C. E. FRANCIS.
	Morgan April 5th, 1884.


﻿Prayer is the outlet of the saints' sorrows
and the inlet of their support.

	An honest man is believed without an oath,
for his reputation swears for him.

	Ah! if you knew what peace there is in an
accepted sorrow.—Madame Guyon

	I have learned more of experimental religion
since my little boy died than in all my life be-
fore.—Bushnell.


