PROVO, UTAH STAKE.

	Minutes of ths Quarterly Conference of the
Relief Societies of Utah County, held in the
meeting house, Provo City, February 29th,
1884, Counselor Mary John presiding, the
health of our beloved president, Ma Smoot,
not permitting her to be present.
	Conference opened with the usual exercises
of singing and prayer, reading of minutes of
former Conference reports, etc.  Sister John
regretted that we had no visitors from the city
o meet with us, but thought we might be edi-
fied by the sisters at home; we should fee
thankful that we were able to meet together
again, notwithstanding there was considerable
sickness in our midst.  Our reports are good.
The sisters are a great help to the brethren,
and are wide awake to their duties.
	Sister Zina Y. Williams: It gives me pleas-
ure to meet with you. There is great improve-
ment among the sisters, they are a great help
and aid, and if these societies should be dropped
they would be missed very much.  We are
well represented in all good works, we are
called upon to help in very many things, and
I often think that the Lord does not wish us to
become very rich, we are so often called upon
to contribute of our means to some good work.
Spoke of the usefulness of the Primary Asso-
ciations; referred to the silk industry; advised
mothers to let their daughters learn to reel silk
and they would have a trade that would be
beneficial to them, etc.
	Sister Mary Ellen Cluff thought the sisters
did not attend these meetings as punctually as
they should, and were the losers thereby, these
societies are of great importance, being organ-
ized by Joseph Smith.  Let us  be charitable,
be good, be liberal; our greatest responsibilities
are our children, they will bear off this King-
dom.
	Bishop Johns said, The instructions are
good, if we magnify our callings and do our
duties it will bring us exaltation.  There is a
reformation among the people in obeying the
word of wisdom, and the saints will have more
of His spirit in consequence of obeying it.
	Conference adjourned till 2 p.m. Benedic-
tion by Bro. Graves.

	Afternoon.  Conference opened with the
usual exercises. Sister Anna K. Smoot spoke
of the benefit these societies were in bringing
us together.  She had belonged to the society
for many years; had become acquainted with
many that she would not have known other-
wise. Spoke of the power of God in convinc-
ing us of the truth of his work, and gave some 
incidents of her experience.
	Henry H. Cluff made some very instructive
and interesting remarks.
	Bro. Johns said the sisters that are hero are
those that take an active part in various
wards, and I am happy to speak to those sis-
ters.  I do not know what the Bishop would
do without their help, and the influence of the
Young Ladies and Primary Association.  If
all should give their experience it would make
volumes; experiences that we have gained are
bulwarks that no ball can penetrate; the world
cannot comprehend us.  Let us continue in
well-doing.  Let us remember the aged, those
that have helped to build up tha Kingdom,
and may the blessings of God  be with us.
Amen.
	After a few more remarks from Sister John
the name of Sister Rhoda Lyman, wife of
Apostle F. M. Laman, was proposed to the
Conference as Second Counselor to Margaret T.
Smoot in the Stake organization of the Relief
Society of Utah County.  The motion was car-
ried unanimously.  After singing Conference
adjourned for three months. Benediction by
H. H. Cluff.
	The statistical and financial report is as fol-
lows:
	Members, 2,132; Teachers, 343: Meetings
held, 227; Average attendance, 598; Woman's
Exponent, 152; Other Church papers, 108;
Disbursements to the poor, $940.93; To the
Temple, $88.20; Missionaries, $53.90; Build-
ings, Stake Tabernacle, $801.15; Home indus-
tries, $17.36; Deseret Hospital, $55.40; Sundry
disbursements, $15.05; Books or stationery,
$9.05; Total disbursements, $1,981.04.
				Mrs. Caroline Daniels,
						Secretary,


