A FEW FACTS.

	There have been of late some very strong tes-
timonies published in our columns concerning
plural marriage, both as to belief and practice.
This seems to be timely, in view of the state-
ments made by those who visit our Territory
from time to time. As polygamy, so called, has
become a national question, one would think
whatever testimony has been given to men and
women should be recorded to substantiate the
position of the Latter-day Saints. The idea that
none but the ignorant can accept such doctrine,
ought, by this time, to be abandoned; for is it
not now pretty generally known that the man-
agement of the affairs of this new and prosper-
ous country have proven that there has been,
and is, ability of a very marked and decided
character among this people?
	But, says one, "The Mormon men are shrewd
and cunning, able and efficient, but the women
are ignorant, low and degraded, or they would
never submit to become plural wives; no intelli-
gent woman would consent to such a state of af-
fairs in a free country." Now, all this proves
plainly that they do not comprehend the sub-
ject, or the motives that actuate the class of
women they are so positive in denouncing. Ig-
norant women could not understand the theory
or practice of plural marriage. It involves so
much; it is upon so lofty a plane that it takes a
high order of intelligence and fine spirituality
to accept it as religious doctrine, and to make
the sacrifice necessary to enter into such a sa-
cred order, and observe all the regulations that
pertain to this new and everlasting covenant. It
is not a light matter, nor one which can be trifled
with. It is something that requires the exercise
of all the highest attributes with which God has
endowed the human soul, and constant prayer
is necessary that the Spirit of God my dwell in
the heart—and the fruits of that Spirit are long-
suffering, forbearence, patience, charity, humil-
ity, love and faith, and that which reaches be-
yond this life and makes all things easy because
of that which is to come.
	When one attempts to reason about this prac-
tice of a plurality of wives, he may find abun-
dant physiological testimony, but Mormon
women have not accepted, nor do they accept it
on any such grounds, neither would they marry
thus with only such evidence to maintain their
position; nor could they endure the trials and
persecutions incident to such an innovation upon
the customs and prejudices of the present day
without having a knowledge that the course
they were pursuing was pleasing in the sight of
God, and relying upon His strength, which lifts
them into a higher atmosphere, and makes the
path clearer to that exaltation they are striving
to attain.

[Column 2]
	It Is because these women feel so sensibly the
noble aspirations which have prompted them
and the sincerity of their motives, knowing the
sacredness of the obligationo they have accepted,
that makes them so righteously indignant when
people contrast plural marriage with the wicked
practices so common in the civilized world. They
are as far removed from each other as the hea-
vens are above the earth. One tends to purity
of character and thought, to the promotion, pre-
servation and prolongation of human life, and
aids in the development of the better nature,
the spiritual, which always refines, cultivates
and educates the soul. The other course sows
the seeds of corruption, disease and death, tends
to the destruction of purity in human character,
and develops the baser passions, that are ever
fatal to the growth of the spiritual nature.
	It does not follow that one is always under the
divine influence because he is trying to serve
God, for men and women are only human after
all, and in their weakness often come short of
that which they desire to reach; but the Lord
helps those who put their trust in Him and try
to obey His laws; and when one draws near Him
He has promised He will not leave them to
themselves.
	Volumes might be written upon this subject
and then the half would not be told; but the
writer has been so often misunderstood in giving
her views and experience of this principle and
order of marriage, that a few facts presented in
her own way may throw some little light upon
the subject, and cause some of the thoughtless
to reflect upon a principle that is of such vast
importance to the human family, and which
would, if properly carried out, lift men and
women into a higher range of mental and spirit-
ual development, and strengthen and intensify
the chords of love and union that bind humanity
together and will ultimately lead them into the
presence of the Father and mother in heaven.


