BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

(Continued.)

	The following are incidents of our camp
life on the Missouri River. Monday, 15th,
Horace speaks of going to a stream hard by
to assist the girls in washing. Those uninter-
esting and unpleasant incidents I remember
very distinctly, though I might have passed
them over had he not made mention of this
circumstance. As cleanliness is next to godli-
ness, and having abundance of time when the
weather permitted, we had no good reason for
neglecting this duty. And we had plenty of
boys ready and willing to hitch up a team to
take us to the water if any distance away from
camp; if so, we would take a picnic or send
back for a warm dinner. The boys would
spend their spare time fishing or as they felt in-
clined till the washing was done. Though our
washing was not so very extensive, it was hard
enough with the sun beating down, and so
breathless and sultry that it appeared as though
we must melt down under it, and this was not
a pleasant thing to anticipate. I was not a
strong girl—having grown up like a shaded
plant I had little strength, and was what is
generally termed lazy; one of the worst ills, I
think, that can afflict humanity, if I may
judge from my own experience. But we had
ample time to do our washing, ironing and
mending, also our sewing, besides making our
daily toilet. And even our fashionable dress-
makers found employment as the warm weath-
er came on. Father had two or three wives
who had learned the trade, and the same num-
ber who understood tailoring, and one of them
had been brought up to the corset making
trade, and all of them were trained up to some
kind of useful industry, and were virtuous and
worthy women, and, as a general rule, they
sought the interests of one another. All had
their trials and temptations—being new begin-
ners in what might be termed an adverse
school, which was calculated to bring into ac-
tion faculties that might forever have lain dor-
mant—testing every one's nature, showing up
their weak points and bringing them to the
surface, to be thrown off, and learn each one to
govern themselves, which was the very thing
to make them saints or sinners. The "Mor-
mon" companies were all orderly, and were
truly models by the side of those who followed
in their trail who were not governed by the
same strict rules and religious motives and
principles that our people were. Our salva-
tion, both temporal and spiritual, depended
upon this course, and our history is a wonder
and a marvel to those who have taken the
trouble to hunt us and review it in all its ups
and downs. And my reasons for writing what
many, no doubt, think rather dry and prosy
reading, concerning the journey and sojourn of
the Latter-day Saints in the wilderness in the
year 1846, over a country which could be easi-
ly travelled in a week or ten days under ordi-
nary circumstances, but which took us six
months to accomplish, are to give to the gener-
ations that have grown up since, a little idea

[Column 2]
of the trials and hardships of those long and
tedious days and months that were spent by
the pioneers in making roads, building bridges
and houses and making farms, etc., etc., for the
comfort of the ones who were to follow; and
our experience, I think, comes nearest to that
of the children of Israel after their departure
out of the land of Egypt than any other peo-
ple of whom we have any record, though I be-
lieve that we were a more patient people. And
who have been as miraculously saved from
death in many forms than they were? And
the same God has fought for us while we have
held our peace, and has brought us deliverance
every time; and it is our wish and purpose to
trust Him still.
	Wednesday, the 17th, Horace, with some of
my father's men and W. Markham, started on
a trading expedition, also some of Bishop
Whitney's men with teams. They went into
Atchison Co., Missouri, where they threshed
out about 120 bushels of wheat, sent it to mill
about twenty miles below there to be ground,
and brought back about 6,300 pounds, also
shelled out a quantity of corn and brought
with them—also some seed wheat. Howard
Egan, who was father's principal agent, had
preceded them two or three days. They were
absent two weeks and returned on the 17th of
July, finding President B. Young and father
absent, having gone back for the purpose of
raising volunteers for the Mexican expedition.
From the 17th Horace had to depend on Peter
Hanson's journal for facts occuring during his
absence.
	Peter wrote on the 17th, "To-day, by invi-
tation, B. Young, Bro. Kimball, Dr. Richards,
Bp Whitney and some of the band came down
in carriages to the settlement to take dinner.
The agent, the principal Indian chief and a
number of others were there and appeared de-
lighted with our music. This evening our
company was enlarged by five families from
Michigan. We learn that Elder Orson Hyde
and John Taylor have just come up with their
companies." Peter speaks of the abundance
of strawberries found at that place. There
was a carriage load of us went with mother on
the 19th some distance from camp where they
grew so thick that we could not help stepping
on them. The heat was intense, being in a
small valley in the woods, and having no wat-
er, only what we carried in a jug. I had been
picking for quite a time and the berries look-
ing so delicately tempting I kept reaching for
them till I fell helpless, though not senseless.
But the rest having gone farther away from
the carriage than myself, I was alone and had
to lay there till I recovered enough to crawl to
the carriage where, though famishing for a
cooling draught, I found nothing but tepid wa-
ter. Towards sundown it grew cooler, and
feeling better, I went out again. President B.
Young came down with a carriage load of his
family about that time and we picked berries
till dusk, when we returned to camp. We had
filled all our pails and pans full and eaten till
we were clogged and wanted no more strawber-
ries that year. That day an invitation had
been received from the agent for the camp and
Wm. Pitt's band to spend the day at the Point.
This was delightful, especially to the young
people, and though I was very unwell through
the night, it was out of the question for me to
forego such a pleasure. This was the first time
that our chests had been disturbed or opened
since packing them in Nauvoo, being the first
time that we had needed anything but common
apparel. And it was really delightful to once
more see the inside of our chests and to
bring out the pretty bonnets, laces, ribbons,
parasols and kid shoes, etc., that had been
packed away, and to think that we were again
to attend a ball. And I rather think we as-
tonished the good folks at the Point to see so
many well dressed and merry hearted boys and

[Column 3]
girls and gentle people who were exiles from
civilization. Peter Hanson, in his description,
says of them, "They were mostly French, half
breeds and Indians—the ladies of all are very
interesting and quite neat in their personal ap-
pearance. Music and dancing were had, and
one of the Indian ladies wished to have an
introduction to Brother Kimball, that she
might dance with him." This was Le Clerc's
daughter, the educated chief of the Pottowato-
mie tribe. She was a spoiled child, and had
married a young white man of very immoral
habits. She had been educated in a western
city and dressed with taste and was quite ac-
complished in the art of coquetry and the be-
witching graces characteristic of the fashiona-
ble belle of society. All of the inhabitants
were warm-hearted and treated us with great
hospitality. The gaiety and excitement of the
day with the dancing was too much for me and
I was taken home very sick, and remained so
for three or four days; and afterwards received
quite a reproof from my father, when I had re-
covered enough to bear it, for my foolishness.
My husband being absent, he felt it his duty to
chasten his daughter, whose only plea was ig-
norance and a passionate love of the dance.
But the lesson came too late only as a warning
with a heavy penitence for past folly. At this
place we had some windy, dusty and stormy
days. Five families came from Michigan—and
also a large camp, called the Mississippi com-
pany, overtook us there.
	Sunday, 21st, two meetings were held and a
number of Frenchmen and Indians came up on
horseback in the afternoon. We were camped
on the Bluffs, nine miles from the Point.


