QUESTION?

	For that which we believe, or for that which
we do not believe? We believe what is writ-
ten in the old and new Testament; we fully be-
lieve in all the words spoken by the Savior,
and the testimony of His Apostles. We be-
lieve in the fulness of the everlasting Gospel;
a crucified and risen Redeemer, and in all the
gifts and graces of the Gospel, and in the ful-
filling of prophecy; that not one jot nor tittle
shall fall short of its fulfilment. "Though the
heavens and earth shall pass away, not one
word shall fail which I have spoken," saith the
Lord.
	Then it stands us in hand to read and find
out what has been fulfilled and what has not
been fulfilled. Has the Gospel been preached
to every nation, kindred, tongue and people,
as spoken by John the Revelator, 14th chapter
and 6th verse? Now let us read St. John, 18th
chapter, 36th verse, last clause, "But now is
my kingdom not from hence." In another
place He told the Jews that they should see
Him no more from henceforth, until they
should say, "blessed is He that cometh in the
name of the Lord." In another place it speaks
of "the kingdom suffering violence, and the
violent take it by force," so that Christ could
not establish His Kingdom on the earth at
that time, for all holding the priesthood, the
authority wherein all right was invested, to
continue or establish a kingdom were taken
from the earth.
	And when He administered the wine He
told the disciples, 18th verse, 22nd chapter of
St. John, "For I say unto you, I will not drink
of the fruit of the vine until the Kingdom of
God shall come." So we see by this language
that the Kingdom of God was not continued.
St. Matthew, 24th chapter, 14th verse, "And
this Gospel of the kingdom shall be preached
in all the world for a witness unto all nations;
and then shall the end come." Meaning that
Gospel of the kingdom unchanged.
	St. Paul says, Epistle to Galatians, 1st
chapter, 8th verse, "But though we, or an an-
gel from heaven, preach any other Gos-
pel unto you let him be accursed." Also,
John's second Epistle, verses 9, 10, 11, speak-
ing or writing to the elect lady to receive no
other doctrine than that which had been
taught.
	"Whosoever transgresseth and abideth not
in the doctrine of Christ, hath not God. He
that abideth in the doctrine of Christ hath
both the Father and the Son."
	We may examine the doctrine of Christ as
it was taught by our Savior. He set the ex-
ample by being baptized by John in Jordan;
after this the Holy Ghost rested upon Him.
He then commanded His disciples to baptize,
and this after His resurrection from the
grave.
	St Mark, 14th chapter, 15th verse, "And He
said unto them, go ye unto all the world and
preach the Gospel to every creature. He that
believeth and is baptized shall be saved, and
he that believeth not shall be damned," etc.
	The 20th verse says, "And they went forth
and preached everywhere, the Lord working
with them, and confirming the word with signs
following." Amen.
	Now, the Sectarian's belief is that the signs
are all done away with, and no longer needed.
And they persecute the Latter-day Saints be-
cause we believe they are essential to our sal-
vation, and necesary to make the Church of
Christ perfect, and we can give the proof by
reading 1st Cor., 12th chapter, all the chapter;
the 27th verse reads, "Now, ye are the body of
Christ, and members in particular," "That
there should be no schism in the body." God
set in the Church apostles, prophets, teachers,
miracles, gifts of healing, helps, governments

[Column 2]
and diversities of tongues. Eph., 4th chapter,
12th verse, we read, for the perfecting of the
Saints, for the work of the ministry, for the ed-
ifying of the body of Christ.
	May I ask how long? Until they were no
longer needed; I cannot conceive of that time.
When God has a kingdom on the earth, and
His Gospel preached by His subjects, for it
reads, in the 13th verse, "Till we all come in
the unity of faith, and of the knowledge of
the Son of God unto a perfect man; unto the
measure of the stature of the fulness of Christ."
14th verse, "That we henceforth be no more
children tossed to and fro, and carried about
with every wind of doctrine, by the sleight of
men and cunning craftiness, whereby they lie
in wait to deceive;"
	The 5th chapter, 20th verse, "That He might
sanctify and cleanse it with the washing of
water by the word."
	The 27th verse, "That He might present it
to himself a glorious church, not having spot
or wrinkle, or any such thing, but that it
should be holy and without blemish."
	Now, we believe that this same kingdom will
be set up again upon the earth according to
the vision of Daniel, 17th chapter, 27th verse,
"And the kingdom and dominion and the
greatness of the kingdom under the whole
heavens shall be given to the people of the
saints of the Most High, whose kingdom is an
everlasting kingdom, and all dominions
shall serve and obey Him."
	We know that in former days a great many
prophecies have been literally fulfilled. The
scattering of the Jews; but in the last days
God would remember them in great mercy,
and they would gather back again upon their
own lands and build up Jerusalem, for they are
of the true olive tree, and God's ancient coven-
ant people. The Gentiles were grafted into the
tame olive tree, but inasmuch as they trans-
gresseth and abideth not in the doctrine of
Christ, and will not receive it in its truth and
purity, they will not be spared, but be cut off,
and the house of Israel will come up in remem-
brance before the Lord, and the last shall be
first the same as was last. The little stone is now
cut out of the mountain without hands, and
will roll forth until it fills the whole earth, and
will break in pieces all other kingdoms. And
the God of heaven would set up His Kingdom
and it should not be destroyed nor given to an-
other people. We know the kingdom which
Christ and His disciples desired to establish
was destroyed; a great apostacy and falling
away took place. Whereas, the Jews sought
not the law by faith, which was a law of car-
nal commandments; but by works it became to
them a stumblingstone; the Savior fulfilled this
law and offered to them a higher law, which
they did not receive, but rejected as a nation.
Then Paul said, "Lo, I turn to the Gentiles
and they received it gladly." But this little
stone of which I have spoken, which is the
word of God, is now a stumbling stone to the
Gentiles, and if the Lord spared not the natur-
al branches because of unbelief, how much
less will He spare the wild ones in unbelief.
The 3rd chapter, 20th verse Acts, says, "And
He shall send Jesus Christ which before was
preached unto you."
	The 20th verse says, "Whom the heavens
must receive until the time of the restitution
of all things, which God hath spoken by the
mouth of all His holy prophets since the world
began." But as it was in the days of Noah,
so shall it be at His second coming. His gos-
pel must be declared unto all that will receive
it, to prepare the way for His coming, to build
temples and to send forth messengers to say,
"Come unto me all ye ends of the earth and
receive my Gospel and be saved in my King-
dom." And they who will turn away from
their sins and come in at the door, and not try

[Column 3]
to climb up any other way, will receive a
knowledge for themselves.
	The women of this Church are called igno-
rant, and it is said of us, we are dragged into
measures by a crafty and cunning priesthood.
This is an untrue assertion. We have the
same privilege to investigate and seek knowl-
edge for ourselves as the men of this Church
have, and full as much time to do so. We re-
ceive the gifts and blessings of the Spirit which
confirm us in the gospel which they teach,
and if it did not agree with Scripture we have
sense enough to detect an error and disown it.
This is our right and privilege. But the more
Scripture we read, and the more we investigate,
the stronger is our faith, and the more thor-
oughly are we convinced of the truth; and if
we would be called Abraham's children we
must do the works he did. We believe and
accept the truth wherever it is to be found, and
our opponents must not condemn us because
we cannot believe the opinions of men. We
want the law and the testimony of the Scrip-
tures, and if they speak not according to this
it is because there is no light in them. We
have been thoroughly conversant with the di-
vided opinions and schemes of Christendom,
which pointed out diverse ways, but not to the
straight and narrow way that but few find.
Wide is the gate and broad is the way that
many go in. Our Savior said enter in at the
door, and He has shown us plainly the door in
which to enter and receive salvation. Shall we
obey His voice, or the voice of a stranger? No,
the sheep knoweth not the voice of a stranger.
These are our views of the reading of the
Scriptures.
	Our friends abroad want us to forsake the
one Lord, one faith, one baptism and His word,
for their views, which they divide and subdi-
vide, firstly, secondly and thirdly, all nicely
written down on paper and put between the
leaves of the Bible, and when it is read to the
people on Sunday it sounds no more like Bible
doctrine than a wolf looks like a sheep. Do
they think for one moment we could retrograde
and throw away truth for fables to please their
notion of things? Why don't they advise the
reformers to turn back to their standard, the
older churches which they came out from, be-
cause of their inconsistences? But we came
not out from any of them. The priesthood
was revealed to Joseph Smith in its primitive
form and purity. It is far in advance of all
sectarian dogmas, it is the true and everlasting
Goepel, wherein no change has taken place,
and this gospel of the kingdom will prevail
over all error and superstition, and if our op-
ponents can dethrone Jehovah, bring to nought
His work, and overthrow His Kingdom that
He has set up for the last time, if they can
fight Him they may then bring into subjection
to their will the Latter-day Saints and scatter
us to the four winds.
				MARY ANN M. PRATT.
	P. S. Thank you, lady lawyer, the time you
over-run was well occupied, and spent in a good
cause. A great pity you was begrugded those
few minutes to speak in defence of right. I
guess they were a little nettled at the truth you
spoke. Those men have had the floor so long,
and had it all their own way, they don't like a
woman to express her views on the situation.
	We Latter-day Saint women will accord to
you all the time you require to speak on so im-
portant a subject as human rights. And you
shall have our prayers, and they shall avail
you much. Women of the land, you have as
much right to uphold and sustain all classes in
their rights of freedom and the pursuit of
happiness as the sterner sex; and true religion
must and will encircle all.


Peace if possible, justice at any rate.—Wen-
dall Phillips.


