REPORTS.

	Minutes of the Quarterly Conference of the
Ladies' Relief Society of the Weber Stake of
Zion, held in the Ogden Tabernacle, March
13th, 1884. The meeting was conducted by
President Jane S. Richards, commenced with
singing, "Come let us rejoice," prayer by Bish-
op Robert Mc.Quarrie, singing again, "Come
all ye sons of God." Minutes of the previous
conference were read and accepted, also the re-
ports, 17 in number.
	President Jane S. Richards made a few
opening remarks; was pleased in having the
opportunity of being in our midst, and was
greatly pleased at seeing so many of her broth-
ers and sisters present, considering the inclem-
ency of the weather they had done remarkably
well. Thought Sisters Eliza R. S. Smith and
Zina Y. Smith both had great courage to trav-
el as they did back and forth to our confer-
ences; exhorted us to be as persevering as they
were. Felt the Lord would bless them, and
us to, for all the good we do here, be it ever so
little. Counselor Hattie C. Brown could not
meet with us, her mother being very ill; and
having lately lost her father we all feel to con-
dole with her. Counselor Sarah J. Herrick
also hath sickness in her family, and could not
be present; but God is just and has some good
reason for afflicting His saints. All is well
with Him. Put full faith and confidence in
the Lord.
	Sister Eliza R. S. Smith said she was pleased
to look and behold so many of her brothers
and sisters faces, it being a little over a year
since she was here. Thanked God her Heav-
enly Father that we as women of Zion could
meet together in these meetings, organized by
the Lord for the good and advancement of
women; think of the good they can accomplish
when bound together by love and union. We
are progressing step by step; we commenced
with but little, but have been greatly blessed
of the Lord, and are increasing in numbers
and financial affairs. Spoke of the average


[Column 1]
attendance seeming small in comparison with
the number of members; but when we take a
ward into consideration there is a faithful few
minute women ready to do what is required of
them, doing their duty, comforting the down-
hearted and afllicted, feeding the hungry,
clothing the naked, attending to the wants of
the poor, blessing them, not only temporally,
but spiritually, speaking words of comfort and
of the great goodness and mercy of the Lord
unto us; exhorting our sisters to seek Him,
the great Father of all, is also a work of the
sisters, in connection with the more common
affairs of our daily life.  What reward can we
expect hereafter if we do not earn it?  Can we
share equally with those who have labored dil-
igently and faithfully?  No, we cannot; we
must extend the hand of love and charity to
those not of us; let them get the refreshings
that we get, how strengthening it would be to
both body and spirit.  She felt to ask Father
to quicken their senses; think of the quickened
five senses. The world have these five senses,
they have the germ; how is it with us?  Has
not God given us five senses and one more?
The Saints have six senses, the comforter,
which takes of the things of God and shows
us how to comprehend all things in a right and
proper manner.  We are the favored few
whose hearts have been touched; let us be very
watchful over these frail natures, lest we go as-
tray; let us culivate and strengthen the six
senses.  The Comforter will not dwell with
envy, strife, faultfinding and many other
things not of God.  Our first duty as a Relief
Society is to look after the poor, watch over
them that none may suffer in our midst; this
needs wisdom, this God alone can give.  Said
it was also the duty of every sister teacher to
administer to her sick sisters if called upon to
do so; they should be prayerful and humble,
and, through faith, bring down blessings from
heaven.  She hoped to associate with her sis-
ters, not only here, but hereafter; hoped to live
worthy of the society of the true saints of God
for all time.  Spoke on many other things of
importance; asked God to bless and prolong
oru lives that we might be the means of doing
all we came here to do.
	Sister Zina Y. Smith desired an interest in
the prayers of her brothers and sisters; felt
that it was the desire of every heart to accom-
plish something and do some good.  Our hearts
are filled with love and confidence in each oth-
er.  Do we pray for the Relief Societies in
our family circle?  The late President Brigham
Young prayed daily for the welfare of these or-
ganizations; said we can feel the spreading
work of the word of wisdom; what a long-liv-
ing effect it will have upon the spirit as well
as the body.  Spoke of prayer: prayer was the
key to the Latter-day Saints.  There are many
things the Lord will reveal unto us yet.  Heard
Brother Kimball say fourteen years ago if
every person bowed the knee night and morn-
ing there would be no apostacy among us; live
in humility and we would have the constant
sunshine of God.  Sister Zina spoke of mar-
riage among our young people, training the
young, light literature, etc.
	Counselor C. F. Middleton spoke upon a va-
riety of subjects—charity, prayer, trials and
temptations of the young, the great work de-
volving upon the mothers and fathers in Isra-
el.  He loved to mingle with us in these meet-
ings, and hoped with us to keep faithful.
	Closed the morning services with singing,
"Praise to the man who communes with Jeho-
vah."  Benediction by Counselor C. F. Mid-
dleton.
	After-noon session commenced at two p.m.
with singing and prayer.  After the reading of
the County Treasurer’s report, Sisters Genet
Bingham, Ann Beckington and Martha Bing-
ham each gave a favorable verbal report of
her respective society.

[Column 2]
	Sister Zina Y. Smith thought the soul need-
ed food as well as the body, and we should en-
joy this great picnic of spiritual things; thought
we gained strength from these associations, we
have no time to spare, we cannot live too near
the Lord; we have taken our ticket straight
through to the celestial world, and must go on
little by little, this hurrying, hardly having
time to breathe is not right, it is not the Spir-
it of God; consider well what we are going to
do, and do it, asking the help of the Lord; let
our hearts expand unto all mankind, feel for
them and try to bring them back into our Fa-
ther’s Kingdom. Thought it right and proper
that the sisters should learn to understand law
and politics, that there may be proper order
among the Latter-day Saints. Our children
must be taught all things in righteousness-
Spoke of the trials of the saints, they were
sent sometimes to prove us and for our good.
Hoped we would be blessed and be accepted of
God.
	Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith said that it was
not the pride of the world, wealth nor fame of
the world that brought so large a congregation
together, but a more noble object inspired
them.  God has spoken, has called us, the
same God that spoke anciently; this is not the
beginning of life with us, we lived before, prior
to coming here.  Are we here to work for our-
selves alone?  No; to work for the living and
the dead; referred briefly to this work, build-
ing of temples, etc.
	Sister Smith showed plainly and in a beau-
tiful manner the difference between us and the
world.  The work of God, and the work of
the evil one.  Exhorted her sisters to be
careful in the training of their children, teach-
ing truthfulness; obedience and a love for only
the good, the noble and beautiful here and
hereafter.
	Bishop Thomas Wallace had listened to the
remarks made with great satisfaction; his mind
had already been expressed.  He also spoke,
upon the Gospel and great field of labor among
the saints of God, prayed the Lord to inspire
the saints to look after the saints in a manner
as acceptable to Him, and bless them with
great knowledge and wisdom.
	Brother Joseph Parry was pleased and edi-
fied with the remarks of his brothers and sis-
ters; thought to profit by the teaching we had
to treasure them in our minds.  We came here
to gather the true riches of the Kingdom of
God.  Bro. Parry referred to the Scriptures;
spoke on charity.
	Both Bro. Wallace and Parry explained
many grand and sublime principles with re-
gard to the work of women, and Kingdom of
our Father on the earth in this age of the
world.
	Sister Richards made a few closing remarks;
hoped all with her would strive to keep the
commandments of God, and live unspotted be-
fore the world.  Asked the blessings of the 
Lord to rest upon all, that they might go home
safely, rejoicing in the goodness and mercies of
the Lord.
	Conference adjourned for three months with
singing, "Awake, ye defenders of Zion." Ben-
ediction by Bishop Gritchlow.

