WHAT A GENTILE WOMAN THINKS.

	Well, this is election day, and I am out of
temper; there is so much to stir up all the sar-
casm, contempt and anger in one's nature. The
elections are for township and corporation offic-
ials. We have in near vicinity a settlement
of colored folks who really, by their numbers,
carry the election.	*	*	*	*
	There! there goes an old colored man who
has been in the workhouse all winter and is not
much more than half-witted, yet he is being
taken over to the polls to cast his vote.	*	*
Last year the Democrats played a joke on
this old negro; he happened to go to their Pri-
mary, through mistake, and they told him it
obligated him to vote the democratic ticket,
So, on election day the old man hid and did
not venture out all day for fear he would have
to vote the democratic ticket. Such intelli-
gence is required to be a voter! Woman nev-
er can understan politics.
	Here goes a wagon with five colored men,
two Germans who are never sober, and the bal-
ance Americans. They are all men, at least,
wear men's apparel; thank goodness, they are
not women, so they must be men, therefore,
capable of having a say in the making of laws
for our corporation. Do I wish to vote? No,
and yes. Do I think it will improve matters
to allow women to vote? I am not sure, for
there are so many bad and so many noodle-pa-
ted women who would go to the polls for no
higher purpose than to "create a sensation;"
and their vote would count as much as the one
cast by a thoughtful, intelligent mother, who
prayerfully watches the body politic as she
watches the physical, moral and mental devel-
opment of her own loved children. Centuries
ago the question was asked, "What must I do
to be saved?" Bob lngersoll has made a bur-
lesque of the question, and people smile, for-
getting the jailer who fell down at the feet of
Paul and Silas, and think of the eloquent in-
fidel orator. But others, aged parents, wives,
sisters and sweethearts, many thousands are cry-
ing in their hearts as they see their loved ones
going to destruction, swift unto ruin, and see
the laws of the land made by saloon keepers,
profligates, drunkards and their dupes to suit
themselves, they say, "What must we do to be
Saved?"
	In the early days of the Colonies, when
men's lives were threatened at all times by the
Indian foe and they found their ideas of war-
fare must change; that they could not choose
a leader by his orthodox belief in infant bap-
tism, that although they wer equipped
"corselets, muskets, bardaliers and portable
rests from which to shoot, and swords," the In-
dians got the better of them, killed them while
they were getting ready to shoot. They did
change their ideas and laid aside the old rules
of warfare.
	When the Constitution of the United States
was framed, the inhabitants of the country and
everything that pertains to the country were
very different from the present. Again it is
time for ideas to change; evils of various
kinds, as sly and devilish as the wily Indian,
creep upon the honest law maker and cut him
off. Every man, woman and child who desires
to save the country from destruction, who have
the good of the community at heart, must be on
the alert. Women in old times snatched up
the guns of their dead husbands and killed the
foe, they bore all hardships and dangers by his
side and were an equal and helpmeet. Women
did not vote then? No; nor do women need to
shoot Indians now; but she needs to stand side
by side with her husband, and have the right
to defend herself and her children against the
foes which beset them on every side.
							EMILY SCOTT.
	Ohio.


