EDITORIAL NOTES.

	ON Wednesday, April 16th, we had the pleas-
ure of attending the annual meeting of the Prim
ary Association in the Twelfth ward in this city,
of which Sister Ellen C. Clawson is President.
The Association has improved very much during
the past year, and it is very gratifying to see
how anxious these little people are to learn to be
good and useful. There were over fifty children
present, nearly all of them quite small. The
programme was not too long, and the songs and
recitations were given in a pleasing manner.
Sister Margaret P. Young, Aurelia S. Rogers,
Lydia Ann Wells and Bishop H. B. Clawson
were present, and each said a few words of en-
couragement to the children; also Sister Midgley
and the writer
	ON Friday, April 18th, in company with Sis-
ter E. R. Snow Smith, we went to Farmington
to attend the Relief Society Conference of Davis
Stake, held in the meeting house, Sister Mary
Clark presiding. Bishop Cheeney of Center-
ville, and Bishop Secrist of Farmington, were
present. Several of the wards in the Stake were
represented by the respective presidents, and a
general good feeling prevailed.
	Sister Eliza spoke with great power and ear-
nestness, and her voice seemed strong and filled
the large building, although she is eighty years
of age. She exhorted the parents to train and
educate their children in the principles of the
Gospel, and to be sure and send them to the
Primary Association, that they may get the
spirit of the work while they are very young.
	SATURDAY, April 19th, went to East Bounti-
ful to attend the annual meeting of the Primary
Association of that place. There were about
130 children, and the large meeting house was
tolerably well filled with the sisters. Mrs. Ann
Dustin is a very efficient President, and teaches
the little ones to observe good order.


[Column 1]
	The selections were varied, and all in good
taste. Some essays read by Miss B Dustin, the
children's composition, were very creditable in-
deed, and the choice of subjects showed what
the little ones were being instructed in. There
were songs, recitations and a dialogue; also an
organ solo, and it was a pleasant afternoon enter-
tainment.
	Sisters Aurelia S. Rogers and Lucy Clark of
Farmington, were present, and spoke briefly to
the children after the exercises. We gave a
little desultory talk to them, praising them for
their excellent deportment.
	Surely Zion is growing, and the little ones are
becoming a mighty host in our midst. Sister
Margaretia Call is an able assistant to Sister
Dustin, and her Counselors are also very compe-
tent and earnest co-workers.
	On Tuesday, April 22nd, we went, in company
with Sisters M. Isabella Horne, Elizabeth How-
ard and Helen Mar Whitney, to North Jordan,
where two meetings were held; the Relief Soci-
ety at 10 a. m., and the Primary Association at
2 p. m.
	Both meetings were interesting, and good in-
structions were given. Bishop Bennion was
present morning and afternoon, also other
brethren, as well as a great number of the sis-
ters. Althogether the time was profitably and
agreeably spent. Such meetings together cre-
ate union and promote happiness, and are con-
ducive to the best interests of the people. At
the meeting of the Relief Society Sister Eliza
Spencer presided. She is a very motherly and
humble woman. Her Counselors, Sisters M. A.
Webster and Mary T. Bannion, are excellent
helps in the organization, and the sisters seem
quite as far advanced spiritually as anywhere in
Salt Lake City.
	The Primary Association has Miss Maria Ben-
nion for President, a very active and efficient
young lady, and she is doing a good work,
though very timid and unasuming. We enjoyed
our visit there very much, and all the sisters
who went felt it had been a day of enjoy-
ment and pleasant association with kindred
workers in the busy hive of working bees.
	ANNUAL meeting of the 20th Ward Primary
Association, Thursday P. M, April 24th ult.,
Mrs. Emma Toone presiding. After singing by
the children, prayer was offered by Counselor
W. C. Dunbar, then singing, minutes read and
accepted, yearly report also read and approved.
In this report among other exercises, we noticed
particularly that the testimonies borne by the
children were 137, which is an item one cannot
well overlook. It speaks well for the children
of Zion, and this is one exercise which should
be encouraged, for it is something which will
produce not only a good, but lasting effect upon
the young and tender soul. In our next issue
we will give some further particulars of this in-
teresting meeting.
	Friday, April 18th, the Primary of the 13th
Ward held its annual meeting, Mrs. Lydia Ann
Wells presiding. Singing by the children.
Prayer by Master Tommie Sloan. Singing.
Minutes read and accepted, and the yearly re-
port, which was a very good one. The exer-
cises were very well rendered, among these were
an impromptu address by Master Tommie Sloan,
which deserves special mention, and also the
questions, on card No. 4, so perfectly answered
by the children. Brief remarks were made by
Sisters Ellen C. Clawson, Mary Allsop, Presi-
dent of Primary Association at Richmond, B.
W. Smith, Margaret Young and Bishop Atwood.
Benediction by Counselor Francis Platte.
	Refreshments were served to the little folks.
This Primary is in a very good condition, the
president has labored very diligently, but the
parents, many of them, are lacking in interest

[Column 2]
concerning the training of the little ones; and
do not see that they attend as they should if they
expect to be benefitted thereby.
	On account of the fire last June, which burn-
ed all the flies on hand of the Woman's Ex-
ponent, we find it necessary to advertise for a
few numbers to complete our file for use in the
office. Those having these numbers, who do
not expect to have them bound for their own
use, will please forward them to the Editor.
They will receive the money for them, or credit
on their subscription. Numbers wanted: Vol-
ume 3, No. 23; Volume 4, Nos. 8 and 15; Volume
5, Nos. 19 and 23; Volume 6, Nos. 3 and 9; Vol-
ume 9, No. 10; Volume 10, No. 16; Volume 11,
No. 4.


