GRATITUDE.

	I once heard President Young say that ingrat-
itude was a great sin. I often reflect upon this,
and the privileges and blessings we enjoy. As
the young and rising generation are we grateful
that we have had the privilege of being born in
Zion? It has been said that "the time will come
when it will be considered a great blessing to
have been born in Zion," and also to have been
born in the everlasting covenant. A great many
of us have not been baptized Gentiles, but
children of the Saints. We are grateful that we
have the privilege of being heirs of God, and
joint heirs with Jesus Christ. Are we also grate-
ful for the privilege of being taught the princi-
ples of life everlasting? These things are mark-
ed out so plainly to us. Are we also grateful
that we have the privilege of living here in
these peaceful valleys, away from the wicked-
ness and corruption of the world? Do we real-
ize these blessings, and many more, too numer-
ous to mention, and do we show our gratitude
by our doings? Will it benefit us if we take no
pains to become better, or to become better try
to do better, and by so doing show our grati-
tude?
	If we follow out the counsels of those who are
placed over us, try to improve and learn wisdom,
perform the various duties required of us to per-
form from time to time, and endeavor by so do-
ing to show our gratitude. Show our Father in
Heaven that we are grateful for His mercies and
loving kindness, and by so doing let our light so
shine before men that others seeing our exam-
ple may endeavor to do likewise.
	We, as daughters of Zion, have a great many
duties to perform. It is often said that drones
are good for nothing. Therefore let us be dili-
gent, striving to do good to all with whom we
associate, and especially father and mother,
brother and sister, and show by our loving kind-
ness that we wish to do them good. When we
perform our duties others are strengthened and
enabled to rise determined to follow in our
footsteps. If we neglect our privileges will they
not rise up in judgment against us to condemn
us?
	Let us be careful to improve the privileges
and blessings we enjoy, thereby showing our
gratitude to God, that we love Him and try to
keep His commandments.
						AUNT HANNAH.
