THOUGHTS AND REFLECTIONS.

	I often reflect, while perusing our excellent pa-
per, with its many choice and instructive pieces
from the pens of our dear sisters, what great
reason we have to be thankful to the one who
first inspired this great undertaking—for inspira-
tion it certainly was—whereby the women of
Zion could be heard, that we could become bet-
ter acquainted with each other, learn of eac


other's desires, faith and works, thereby draw-
ing the bonds of affection and sympathy in
closer connection. We are led to realize there is
a sympathy between us; we all have one faith,
one hope, one baptism; we are all struggling for
the same goal. The fact is brought plainer and
more forcibly to our minds that we are not alone
struggling for that haven of rest, which we have
faith in and expect will be the reward of our
works here in this mortal sphere. Some seem
fated to have more severe trials than others;
why this is so remains one of the mysteries; al-
though we are all very apt to think that we
have all the trials we can possibly endure. The
trials of this life are necessary to purify us, and
we have got to be tried as gold seven times puri-
fied by fire. If we cannot be purified by pass-
ing once through the furnace of affliction we
have to be thrown in again and again, until we
become as the pure gold that is without any al-
loy, neither spot nor blemish. We are like the
rough diamond that requires putting through
very delicate cutting processes to get the rough
corners polished, before it can attain to that per-
fection which makes it so valuable.
	The Lord will have a tried people. "Blessed
are those who come up through great tribula-
tion." Then let us thank the Lord for our trials,
for they help to bring us nearer to our God. Let
us have faith in His over-ruling providence that
He will guide us safely through. Whatever we
are called to endure, let us do so without mur-
mur or complaint in our hearts, and then the
rich blessings of heaven will attend us.
								S. M. P.
	Mesa City.


