The Arctic Moon (From "The Yukon") Joaquin Miller
The moon resumed all heaven now, She shepherded the stars below Along her wide, white steeps of snow, Nor stooped nor rested, where or how.
She bared her full white breast, she dared The sun to show his face again. She seemed to know no change, she kept Carousal constantly, nor slept, Nor turned aside a breath, nor spared The fearful meaning, the mad pain, The weary eyes, the poor dazed brain, That came at last to feel, to see The dread, dead touch of lunacy.
How loud the silence! Oh, how loud! How more than beautiful the shroud Of dead Light in the moon-mad north When great torch-tipping stars stand forth Above the black, slow-moving pall As at some fearful funeral!
The moon blares as mad trumpets blare To marshaled warriors long and loud; The cobalt blue knows not a cloud, But, oh, beware that moon, beware Her ghostly, graveyard, moon-mad stare! Beware white silence more than white! Beware the five-horned starry rune; Beware the groaning gorge below; Beware the wide, white world of snow, Where trees hang white as hooded nun? No thing not white, not one, not one! But most beware that mad white moon.
The Exiles
The prediction has been persistent for many years that much choice literature would be inspired by the life of Abraham Lincoln. This prediction has found its fulfilment in very large measure. Just as persistent has been the statement among Latter-day Saints that because of the richness of material found in the story of the exodus from the city of Nauvoo to the valley of the great Salt Lake, much choice literature would be the inevitable result. In line with this latter prediction is The Exiles, a poem written by Professor Alfred Osmond, head of the English Department of the Brigham Young University. The story is told in a graphic and fascinating style, that is gripping and convincing. There is a tone of exaltation about it that lifts it into the realm of ideality and beauty. It is written in the trochaic tetrameter, a long smooth meter, suitable to narrative poetry. It was this meter that Longfellow selected when he wrote "Hiawatha," consequently it will be familiar to readers in general. And like "Hiawatha" it is told with every grace of poetry, but not sacrificing fidelity to truth.
A few selections from the poem will be the most effective way of revealing its charm. Never a twenty-fourth of July pageant, perhaps, that does not contain one float with dancing pairs, illustrating the amusement on the plains. Professor Osmond has done this in one stanza; we include the stanza:
But the Saints were not so narrow As to limit their enjoyments To the sacred songs of praises That exalted their religion. Wits were sharpened with the clashing Of bright minds in fun and frolic, And the wag was quick and wary With his lists of droll diversions. This would seem no time for dancing For a Puritanic people, But they danced the Old Virginia With a vigor and a daring That put all their cares to riot. Then the "Round Dance" and "Six Nations" Would be ushered in with laughter That suggested men and women Are but children moving forward To the higher hills and play-grounds That will keep them young and happy.
From the chapter "Darker Days" we select a stanza that records some of the terrible experiences suffered by the people on their journey:
Victims of the Mountain Fever, Strange companions of the red men, Denizens of dreary deserts, Dwellers in the trackless prairies, Toilers up the Rocky Mountains With your trains of covered wagons, With your crazy, creaking handcarts, You may never reach the valleys Of the everlasting mountains; You may never find the Zion That is always farther westward; You may see the land of promise Fade and vanish into shadows; You may fall, the helpless victims Of malignant Mountain Fever; You may falter and may famish On the prairies, in the deserts. Bands of red men may destroy you On the bleak and barren ridges Of the Rocky Mountain ranges; You may cease your earth-existence And become an extinct people? But you cannot turn your faces Toward the valleys of the Eastlands. All your hopes are in the prairies And the deserts and the mountains. If you find these hosts unfriendly, God himself will have to take you, For there are no dwelling places For yourselves and for your children, If you fail to find your Zion In the valleys of the mountains.
The concluding stanzas are among the best in the poem, as they combine a grace of style with vision and exaltation of thought, that is both pleasing and uplifting.
Happy, happy, happy people? In the valleys of the mountains, In the days that are to follow, In the ages that will usher In the greater dispensations, Men will come to you for wisdom, And will gladly sing your praises.
Notes from the Field