GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 95 Mary immediately after the annunciation of Gabriel to her hastened from Nazareth to the home of her cousin Elizabeth; of the manner of her salutation to Elizabeth and of Elizabeth's response and of how the visit of Elizabeth extended into months. (Luke 1: 5-55.) Both before and at the time of the birth of her child of promise Eliabeth was blessed with the presence of the Holy Ghost. She was the first mortal to declare orally that the Baptist's name should be John, although she had doubtless learned this from her husband who must have written a great deal to her during his period of enforced silence. At the event of the enunciation and naming of John, Elizabeth drops out of sight. What is known of her later must be taken from inference. That she performed the duties of noble motherhood seems clear in the light of the scripture, "And the child grew and waxed strong in the spirit." (Luke 1:80.) Elizabeth was the fifth woman of Biblical record who after a long period of barrenness bore a child in fulfilment of divine promise. Those who preceded her were: Rebecca, mother of Isaac (Gen. 17:16, 17), the mother of Samson (Judges 13), Hannah; the mother of Samuel (I Sam. 1). The Shumanite mother (II Kings 4). What the grief of barrenness was to a wife is depicted in the story of Hannah's childless life, and what the joy of expectancy was is summed up in the rapturous expressions of Elizabeth. Elizabeth was never barren in spirit; she was always fruitful in desire. Such women may be reproached by society, but God honors them. The choosing of the aged, childless Elizabeth to become the mother of the forerunner of Christ, and declaring her son to be second to no prophet ever born, leave no room for the belief that physical barrenness is a mark of disfavor in the eyes of the Lord. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Mention two occasions on which Elizabeth was blessed with the presence of the Holy Ghost. (Luke 1:15-41.) 2. Wherein was the divine instruction concerning the child of promise that should be born to Elizabeth different from the divine instruction concerning Samson the child of promise? (Judges 13:3-4; Luke 1:5.) 3. Discuss the statement: "Looking on barrenness with reproach makes for good in the world." 4. What-was the source of the utterance of Elizabeth recorded in Luke 1:43? 5. Wherein is the life of Elizabeth of most value to the women of today?; 
 LESSON II Work and Business (Second Week in April) TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR APRIL?CIVIC PRIDE Planting and Gardening I. Clean up work to be continued. (Cooperate with children in this work.) II. Prepare soil and plant flowers and vegetables. Shrubs: All shrubs, including roses and trees, should be planted as soon a the soil can be worked. Pruning should be done not later than pril. Bulbs: Bulbs may be planted in May. Cannas if put in pots, in warm dark place and removed later to cooler and light place after leaves appear, may be placed in garden late in May for early bloom. Flowers: Sweet peas and all perennials may be planted as early as the ground can be 'worked. The following annuals may be planted in gardens in late April: Ageratum, Alyssum, Snapdragon, African Daisy, Aster (earlier blossoms if planted indoors), Cosmos, Clarkias, Dianthus, Bachelors Button, Carnations, Hollyhocks, California Poppy, Angel's Breath, Larkspur (annual Delphinium), Stocks, Lavateria, Marigold, Morn-. Ing Glory, Nicotiana, Nasturtiums, Ricinus, Verbena, Zinnia, Wallflower, Pansies, Phlox, Pyrethrum, Petunias, Poppies. For early bloom the following might be planted in hot beds and later removed to garden: Snapdragons, Stocks, Asters, Begonias, Carnations, Cosmos, Dahlias, Phlox, Salvia, Verbena. Vegetables: April 1-15 (in the open ground): Asparagus, Asparagus Roots, Beet, Brussels Sprouts, Carrot, Celery, Chicory, Corn Salad, Cress, Endive, Kale, Leek, Lettuce, Mustard, Onion Sets, Early Peas, Chinese Cabbage, Rhubarb Roots, Radish, Salsify, Sorrell, Spinach, Swiss Chard, Turnip. April 15-30: Asparagus, Snap Bean, Beet, Brussels Sprouts, Cabbage, Carrot, Cauliflower, Celery, Sweet Corn, Pop Corn, Cress, Endive, Kale, Kohl-Rabi, Leek, Lettuce, Muskmelon, Mustard, Onion, Parsley, Parsnip, Peas, Potatoes, Radish Salsify, Sorrell, Squash, Swiss Chard, Tomatoes. May 1-15: Asparagus, Bush Bean, Pole Bean, Lima Bean, Beet, Brussels Sprouts, Cabbage, Carrot, Cauliflower, Celery, Chicory, Sweet Corn, Pop Corn, Cucumber, Endive, Kale, Leek, Lettuce, Muskmelon, Watermelon, Onion, Parsley, Parsnip, Peas, Potatoes, Pumpkin, Summer Radish, Salsify, Squash, Swiss Chard, Tomato. May 15-30: Bush Bean, Pole Bean, Lima Bean, Beet, Brussels Sprouts, Cabbage, Carrot, Cauliflower, Celery, Whitloof-Chicory, Sweet Corn, Pop Corn, Cucumber, Endive, Kale, Kohl-Rabi, Muskmelon, Parsley, Potatoes, Pumpkin, Squash, Summer Radish, Swiss 'Chard. June 1-15: Lima Bean, Beet, Brussels Sprouts, Cabbage, Carrot, Cauliflower, Sweet Corn, Pop Corn, Cucumber, E'ndive, Kale, Kohl-Rabi, Parsley, Potatoes, Summer Radish. June 15-30: Beet, Carrot, Sweet Corn, Pop Corn, Cress, Cucumber, Endive, Kale, Kohli-Rabi, Potatoes, Summer Radish, Winter Radish, Rutabaga, Turnip. July 1-15: Bush Bean, Beet, Kale, Kohl-Rabi, Lettuce, Mustard, Summer Radish, Rutabaga, Turnip. July 15-30: Bush Bean, Chinese Cabbage, Kale, Mustard, Summer Radish, Spinach, Turnip. August 1-15: Chinese Cabbage, Kale, Mustard, Summer Radish, Spinach, Turnip. August 15-30: Radish, Spinach. September and October: Asparagus Roots, Rhubarb  Roots, Onion Sets, Corn Salad, Spinach.; Note: The dates supplied above are those applying to the Mountain States or places of similar climatic conditions, where the outside growing season for hardy varieties begins in average years in March and continues until November. GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 97 LESSON III Literature (Third Week in April) Paul Laurence Dunbar February always brings to mind the name of the great emancipator of the colored man. For that reason we have selected the outstanding poet of the colored people for the February issue of the Magazine. Abraham Lincoln and Paul Laurence Dunbar have each, in turn, served the colored men in an extraordinary way. The first struck from him the shackles of slavery, and the second revealed to him, through his inimitable art, negro personality as it is distinguished from other types. Everybody knows that the negro is superstitious?that a part, at least, of his religion is made up of superstition. Everybody who has watched these people at their play, heard them laugh and talk, knows that they are not without wit. As a consequence it is pleasing to discover these qualities in the writings of any poet who really seeks to represent them. Paul Laurence Dunbar was born in 1872, at Dayton, Ohio. His father and mother were negro slaves, consequently he was indebted to Lincoln for the fact that he was born in freedom rather than slavery. He ran an elevator for a number of years while a boy?indeed it was while he was serving in this capacity that he wrote his first poems. He tried newspaper work, but it was not in line with his special talent. The government turned in kindness towards him, as it had often done in the past, in its desire to assist men of literary genius. They could not give Dunbar a post in the Custom House, as Edwin Arlington Robinson had been given, or Nathaniel: Hawthorne, many years before, but they did give him a pau in the Library of Congress, Washington, D. C. He has given us three forms of composition?two in prose and one in poetry. He has written several volumes of short stories, and two novels, but it is in lyric poetry that he excels, particularly those of negro dialect. In this line he has no competition. He has done for the negro what Rudyard Kipling has done for the soldiers in barracks in India, and well known types of British in his own country; in other words, it is the use he makes of local color that marks him as a man of genius as much as any other quality he possesses. One thing surprising about Dunbar is the fact that he is of negro descent without any mixture. William Dean Howells is responsible for the statement that as far as he could remember "Paul Dunbar was the only man of pure African blood and of American civilization to feel the negro life aesthetically and express it lyrically." 
 His works consist of a collection of Lyrics of Lowly Life, published in 1896; Lyrics of the Hearthside, published in 1899; Lyrics of Love and Laughter, published in 1903; Lyrics of Sunshine and Shadow, published in 1905. The last named volume, while it contains outstanding poems, is not as original as the others. A number of "gift-book editions" have been published. No greater compliment can be paid the poet's sense of rhythm, than to record the fact that he has made very general appeal to composers, for an unusual number have set his verse to music. He died in the city of Dayton, February 10, 1916, at the age of 44. It is a source of satisfaction to realize that he had done so much good work, even though his life was snapped in its prime. As an example of his dialect poems we quote "The Turning of the Babies in the Bed," which has a humorous and human touch that will appeal to mothers universally: THE TURNING OF THE BABIES IN THE BED Woman's sho' a cur'ous critter, An' day ain't no doubtin' dat. She's a mess o' funny capahs f'om Huh slippahs to huh hat. Ef you tries to un'erstan' huh, an' You fails, des' up an' say: "D' ain't a bit o' use to try to Un'erstan' a woman's way." I don't mean to be complainin', but I's jes' a-settin' down Some o' my own obserwations, _W'en I cas' my eye eroun'. If you ax me fw' to prove it, I Ken do it mighty fine, Fu' dey ain't: no bettah 'zample Den dis ve'y wife o' mine. In de ve'ty hea't o' midnight, w'en I's sleepin' good an' soun', I kin hyeah a so't o' rustlin' an' Somebody movin' 'roun'. An' I say, "Lize, whut you doin'?" But she frown an' shek huh haid. "Heish yo' mouf, I's only tu'nin' Of de chillun in de bed. "Don' you know a child gits restless, Layin' all de night one way? An' you' got to kind o' 'range him Sev'al times befo' de day? GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 09 "So de little necks won't worry, an' De little backs won't break; Don' you t'ink case chillun's chilun day Hain't got no pain an' ache." So she shakes 'em, an' she twists 'em, An' she tu'ns 'em 'roun' erbout, 'Twell I don' see how de chillun Evah keeps f'om hollahin' out. Den she lif's 'em up head down'ards So's dey won't git livah-grown, But dey snoozes des' ez peaceful Ez a liza'd on a stone. W'en hit's mos' nigh time fu' Wakin' on de dawn o' jedgment day, Seems lak I kin hyeah ol' Gab'iel Lay his trumpet down an' say, "Who dat walkin' 'roun' so easy, Down on earf ermong de dead?" ?T will be Lizy up a-tu'nin' Of de chillun in de bed. "A Coquette Conquered" is another example of his dialect poetry. A Coquette CONQUERED Yes, my ha't 's ha'd ez stone? Go 'way, Sam, an' lemme 'lone. No; I ain't gwine change my min'? Ain't gwine ma'y you?Nuffin' de kin'. Phiny loves you true an' deah? Go ma'y Phiny; whut I keer? Oh, you needn't mou'n an' cry? I don't keer how soon you die. Got a present! Whut you got? Somef'n fu' de pan er pot! Huh! Yo' sass do sholy beat? Think I don't git 'nough to eat? Whut's dat un'neaf yo' coat? Looks des lak a little shoat '"T ain't no possum! Bless de Lamb! Yes, it is, you rascal, Sam! 
 Gin it to me; whut you say? Ain't you sma't'now! Oh, go 'way! Possum do look mighty nice, But you ax too big a price. Tell me, is you talkin' true, Dat's de gal's whut ma'ies you? Come back, Sam; now whah' s you gwine? Co'se you knows 'dat pores Ss mine! His poems, like his stories, have been very popular. There are few American students who will not recall "Angelina." We quote the first stanza of this poem: When de fiddle gits to singin' out a ol' Vahginny reel, As' you 'mence to feel a ticklin' in yo' toe an' in yo' heel; Ef you t'ink you got 'uligion an' you wants to keep it, too You jes' bettah tek a hint an' git yo'self clean out o' view. Case de time is mighty temptin' when de chune is in de swing, Fw' a darky, saint or sinner man, to cut de pigeon-wing. An' you couldn't he'p f'om dancin' ef yo' feet was boun' wif twine When Angelina Johnson comes a? a-Swingin' down de line. His "Miss Lucy" poems have been very popular. Entitled "Discovered" is particularly keen. DISCOVERED Seen you down at ch'ch las' night, Nevah min', Miss Lucy. What I mean? Oh, dat's all right, Nevah min', Miss Lucy. You was sma't ez sma't could be, But you couldn't hide f'om me. Ain't I got two eyes to see! Nevah min', Miss Lucy. The one GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL Guess you thought you's awful keen; Nevah min', Miss Lucy. Evahthing you done, I seen; Nevah min', Miss Lucy. Seen him tek yo' ahm jes' so, When he got outside de do' Oh, I know dat man's yo' beau! Nevah min', Miss Lucy. Say now, honey, wha'd he say?? Nevah min', Miss Lucy! Keep yo' secrets?dat's yo' way? Nevah min', Miss Lucy. Won't tell me an' I'm yo' pal? I'm gwine tell his othah gal,? Know huh, too, huh name is Sal; Nevah min', Miss Lucy! 101 His poems of advice are interesting. We include under this heading "A Golden Day," and "The Unlucky Apple." poems. A GoLpEN Day I found you and I lost you, All on a gleaming day. The day was filled with sunshin, e And the land was full of 'May. A golden bird was singing Its melody divine, I found you and I loved you, And all the world was mine. I found you and I lost you, All on a golden day, But when I dream of you, dear, It is always brimming May.| Tue Untucky APPLE *Twas the apple that in Eden | Caused our father's primal fall; And the Trojan War, remember? *T was an apple caused it all. So for weeks I've hesitated, You can guess the reason why, For I want to tell my darling She's the apple of my eye. We include "A Flordia Night," as an example of his J nature | 
 A Ftroripa NIGHT Win' a-blowin' gentle so de san' lay low, San' a little heavy f'om de rain, All de pa'ms a-wavin' an' a-weavin' slow, Sighin' lak a sinnah-soul in pain. Alligator grinnin' by de ol' lagoon, Mockin'-bird a-singin' to de big full moon, 'Skeeter go a'skimmin' to his 'fightin' chune (Lizy Ann's a-waitin' in de lane!) Moccasin a-sleepin' in de cyprus swamp; Needn't wake de gent'man, not fu' me. - Mule, you needn't wake him w'en you switch an' stomp, Fightin' off a 'skeeter er a flea. Florida is lovely, she's de fines' lan' Evah seed de sunlight f'0m de Mastah's han', 'Ceptin' fu' de varmints an' huh Fleas an' san' An' de nights w'en Lizy Ann ain' free. Moon's a-kinder shaddered on de melon patch; No one ain't a-watchin' ez I go. Climbin' of de fence so's not to click de latch Meks my gittin' in a little slow. Watermelon smilin' as it say, "I's free;" Alligator boomin', but I let him be, Florida, oh, Florida's de lan' fu' me? (Lizy Ann a-singin' sweet an' low.) QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Tell a story that goes to prove that the negro is superstitious. 2. Relate some incident or tell a story that reveals the negro's sense of humor. 3. Tell something about a negro camp meeting, or in some other way try to describe the negro's style of worship. 4. If it is convenient read what you think to be the most significant parts of the Emancipation Proclamation. 5. Name some other persons of the colored race beside Paul Laurence Dunbar that you think have achieved something worth while. GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 103 LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in April) } EMOTIONAL PROBLEMS OF CHILDHOOD?JANE AND HENRIETTA Serious and difficult emotional problems are' presented by the two adolescent girls, Jane and Henrietta. Both were the victims of unintelligent parents. The basis of these problems is not uncommon in adolescent development because of lack of understanding by their parents; one girl was on the verge of a mental breakdown, and the other was contemplating suicide. Both suffered these serious emotional upsets because of the lack of sex education and guidance. It will be remembered from the introductory discussion of emotional problems that the individual has three dominant instincts or urges?the ego, or self; the herd, or social; and the sex or love instinct. The three instincts all seek expression, and if thwarted or frustrated cause emotional disturbances The individual expresses his ego urge by accomplishing certain ends and experiencing the joy and satisfaction of expression. He satisfies his social urge by gaining the confidence and approval of his family, playmates, and friends. In the studies of the emotional problems of childhood, it has been pointed out that the failure to gain normal expression or the failure to gain approval seriously affects the development of the child. His defeats, and unhappiness, and, sense of failure 'deeply affect his emotional life, limiting his development, and making his conduct abnormal. In our home and school life the tendency has been to ignore inquiry into the other important instinct, sex. The subject has been a taboo. Because sex has been recognized as a compelling life force, but its aspects have not been generally understood, the whole subject has taken on an atmosphere of morbid secrecy. Sex education is the responsibility of the home. The first questions of the origin and development of life are asked in the home. The relation between parents, the relation between parents and their children, the attitude of brothers and sisters toward one another, and toward their friends, are all phases of sex relationships, and depend on wholesome home guidance to lead the child to normal, healthful attitudes. The method of sex education will not be the subject of this discussion, for the subject itself deserves special attention and study. The purpose of studying the problems of Jane and Henrietta is to observe the real dangers and pitfalls that endanger adolescents if, through lack of home guidance, they have wrong information concerning sex, and unwholesome attitudes because of their misconceptions. Jane at nineteen was at the beginning of a mental breakdown. 
 She was suffering from what is known as an anxiety neurosis. This condition was the result of a secret worry that she had tried to crowd out of her conscious life. In spite of her effort to forget her worry, the unconscious mind kept harboring and remembering until she came near a breakdown All her anxiety, and nervousness, and weeping, and unhappinss, were the result of wrong sex information given her by her mother. She had at twelve, and again at sixteen met an experience not at all uncommon in childhood. Her mother had observed that she masturbated?practiced selfabuse?and had used the unintelligent method of correcting her by telling the child that she would go crazy if she did not stop the practice. The mother filled the child's life with fear, shame and inferiority. The girl felt herself unclean and unfit for friendships and love. The shame and self-reproach continued, for at no time was she given frank, sound, sex information. Her other home guidance was also harmful. Her mother was most rigid and severe in her regulations concerning her friends and social life, and this close supervision intensified her feeling of weakness and impending dangers. When she was given a frank explanation of the function of sex by the physician she consulted, her danger was past. Her doubts and fears disappeared as soon as the atmosphere of secrecy and accompanying feeling of shame were removed. Our author states that this practice occurs frequently among children, and should call for attention but not anxiety. The hazard is not the effect on the mind or body, but the fears and anxieties aroused by the method of correction. Parents should not express horror or instil fears to meet this behavior difficulty. Sympathetic understanding, patient teaching, and frankness by the parents will lead the child more readily to overcome the practice, and will not undermine his confidence and self-esteem. Henrietta at sixteen found life dull, and contemplated selfdestruction. Her thinking then led her to consider finding pleasure and securing pretty clothes by pursuing a course already adopted by her sister. Her poverty, her lack of normal childhood amusement, made the course of abandoning her moral principles seem exciting and attractive. It is not fair to pass judgment on Henrietta and girls in her position, for the attitude they develop. Youth is a time for amusements and gaieties, and if no wholesome recreation is afforded young persons, it is quite natural for them to seek it in thoughtless and unwise channels. The developing sex impulse in adolescents needs to be better understood by parents. In homes where boys and girls meet frequently to play and dance and enjoy youth together, there is no great occasion for alarm. Where this harmless, natural association is denied, either by lack of a pleasant home or by too rigid puritanical GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 105 standards, the frustrated impulse may lead to real difficulties. Henrietta's difficulties were both the lack of frank instruction, and the lack of constructive direction. The importance of children gaining their information regarding matters of health, of the life processes, and the ideal of parenthood in a sane, natural way, cannot be over-emphasized. In homes where questions are evaded and the subject of sex physiology and development is left a mystery, the child's curiosity is not only stimulated but he develops a morbid attitude toward the whole subject. He then gains his information from sources such as his gang, and lurid magazines, and his entire conception of the part of sex in life becomes distorted. It becomes an unspeakable subject, one from which he gains an unwholesome pleasure in discussing and contemplating its unsavory aspects. The very mystery that his parents place upon the subject makes his attitude abnormal, morbid and unwholesome. The child who receives frank answers to his early questions, and who has his own development explained to him in terms of ideals of parenthood is protected from this unpleasant and harmful speculation. Fore-armed with sound, accurate information from the parents whose sincerity he does not doubt, he will be able to dismiss the misinformation that he will later hear from his crowd or gang. He will also be spared the emotional upset when he finally realizes that his parents have deliberately given him false information. Henrietta had further difficulty besides the lack of instruction. Her home had given her no opportunity for the outlet of her emotional interests. The release of this emotional energy is important to give the individual normal stable personality. The inherent craving of individuals for emotional satisfaction is termed the libido. If the libido finds expression for its great store of energy in harmless channels, the individual maintains a normal attitude towards life, and normal interests in the affairs of everyday living. If the libido finds no opportunity for release, that is, finds no emotional satisfaction in the daily associations, and in the regular scheme of living, the libido will find an outlet in some other channel, which may have undesirable effects on the person. In terms of Henrietta her libido found no wholesome outlet. Her natural craving for emotional satisfaction was frustrated. Her parents did not realize how important theSe satisfactions are, until the effect of her barren emotional life was explained to them. The libido can find expression and satisfaction in many channels. Affection and appreciation in the home are sources of emotional release. Games, parties, outdoor sports, recreation, new clothes, success in work, are all easily recognized as sources of emotional satisfaction, and releases of emotional energy. ? Henrietta responded to the treatment prescribed, and her near- 
 sighted plans of securing clothes and pleasures by sacrificing her standards was forgotten. She was not scolded, nor lectured, nor criticized. No attempt was made to change her attitude by discussing her responsibilities and duties. Her thwarted emotional life made an intellectual appeal futile. The treatment outlined was agreeable work away from home, where she found pleasure in her work and in being with children. Her earnings made it possible for her to gain other small pleasures in the way of recreation. Her days that had been spent in pent up brooding were now changed to active happy ones. It is apparent that wholesome activity, recreation and pleasant associations are normal releases of the emotional life. Associations should be varied. There is some danger of too strong attachment between parents and children or two children. A mother, especially a widowed one, might devote herself too entirely to her only son or daughter. Two friends of the opposite sex at too early an age may make emotional ties that are upsetting when the necessity rises for separation. Two friends of the same sex may also become too dependent on each other for their later happiness. There are types of individuals who do not mingle with groups readily or frequently. Such social expression as possible should be encouraged in these persons, but it must be remembered that the emotional energy can find expression in channels other than amusement. Creative-work of any kind has been identified with emotional life. Any expression, whether through poetry, painting, music or other creative work, gives the person a real emotional satisfaction. This expression through creative effort, known as sublimation is the sex impulse released through other channels. The program of sex education is based on frank information given by parents to-children, and also on the direction of the emotional energy into channels of work, recreation, activity, and of its sublimation to satisfying, useful forms of expression. References?Challenge of Childhood, Dr. Ira S Wile, pages 215-227. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS Why is frank sex information to children important? Why should this information be given in the home? What is meant by the libido? How can the libido find expression in normal channels? What are normal emotional satisfactions for adolescents? What are the dangers of lack of emotional expression? What treatment was outlined for Henrietta? What is meant by sublimation?  Plan Your Garden Now You will find nothing of greater help than P-W's Seed and Nursery Book for 1927 It's brimful of just the information most needed by every home owner It's Free?Call,