Interpreted Hazel T. Latimer First poem to receive honorable mention in the Eliza Roxey Snow Poem Contest. Little leaf, so like the others, Did God make you and your brothers Just to hang so on the tree, Make it beautiful for me? Did he fashion flowers, too, With their rich and varied hue? Did he cause the sunrise fair And the sunset's flaming flare? Did he tell the dew to stand Glist'ning bright on morning land? Form the brook to bubble over Stones, to sing unto the clover? Did he shape the eagle's wing And the tiny birds that sing On the eaves above my door? Or the thornbush on the moor? Did he send the light to quiver On the ripples of the river? Cause the moon to shed her light In the silence of the night? Did he build the mountainside ~ With its ragged crags spread wide? How my soul sings with elation That 'm of God's choice creation! He has made my heart to feel, Caused my very soul to kneel Whisp'ring prayers of thanks so meet For the beauties round my feet. All these things his name doth know, Doth his power and glory show. These explain his love supernal, Makes me know him, God eternal, Makes me hope myself divine, Interpreted at nature's shrine. ARCTIC SCENE AN 
 The Land of Northern Lights Kate Palmer Macfarlane If you will, dear reader, take down your old geography and turn to the map of the Arctic regions, you will see the well remembered outlines, like a picture of your childhood, of the Arctic ocean embraced in its girdle of continents, its borders scalloped and spangled with islands and bays and archipelagos, and the whole map dotted with names as familiar to you as those of the streets and buildings of your own town. But do those names, now that you are grown up and posséss a wider knowledge of the world, bring to your mind more vivid pictures of the regions to which they are attached than they did in the old grade school days, when Eskimos, icebergs and polar bears told the whole story of the Arctic? Perhaps not, and if not you are to be excused, for those remote regions are so disconnected with our lives that they seem scarcely real, and the conditions there so different from those of the temperate zones that it is difficult to understand them. But if you can find time and inclination to study Arctic physiography, you will find yourself getting acquainted with a subject that gets more fascinating as you go on, a subject that not only presents you with a wealth of astonishing fact, but gives significance to one of the most dramatic chapters of jworld history that has ever been written. To deal with this subject in a single article is to give the merest glimpse of it, but if in that glimpse the reader gets added knowledge, it will be worth while, particularly if it arouses curiosity to look for further information and get acquainted with that interesting field of reading found in Arctic bibliography. A topsy turvy world is the Great White North, where even the sun and the moon seem to forget their comfortable normal habits, and the objects of nature are as strange as the figures of a dream. Even the sea must be crossed, not in ships but afoot, for it wears a cap of the ice which growing thicker or thinner with the change of seasons, never entirely melts away. This cap is not even smooth like the frozen surface of lakes and streams, for it is the battle ground of vast warring forces that tear at it both from above and beneath,