Amy Brown Lyman
Los Angeles Stake
On March 17, 1926, Adams ward Relief Society of Los Angeles stake, presented a unique entertainment which may prove of interest to other societies of the Church. Following the opening congregational song, prayer and address of welcome, by President Lois H. West, there was presented a series of living pictures which portrayed the organization of the Relief Society, its six presidents and its activities. Picture one represented the first meeting of the Relief Society, with the Prophet Joseph Smith making his announcement to the assembled members. At his side was Willard Richards, who acted as secretary pro tem. They faced the audience, and gathered around them were a number of sisters. All were dressed in old fashioned costumes.
Then followed pictures of our six Relief Society Presidents, after which came tableaux of the Relief Society activities. "Visiting the Sick" showed a young woman on a sofa, very restless and ill at ease. Presently two Relief Society teachers entered, bringing flowers and books to cheer her up. "Feeding the Hungry" was represented by a poorly-clad little family seated around the table on which was an empty milk bottle and a few crusts. As the children cried for food the father offered a prayer for help, after which the Relief Society president entered, bringing a basket of food. "Clothing the Poor" showed a family in very bad circumstances, with children in poor clothing and without shoes. A Relief Society social service aid, representing the president, entered and brought clothing for all. "Comforting those who Mourn" was carried out by a young mother, dead on the bed. About her were her husband and children, crying, but comforted and cared for by the Relief Society teachers.
All the pictures were introduced by the announcer, Mrs. Maybelle T. Davis, who recited appropriate verses of her own composition. She was accompanied by Mrs. Hortense Gordon Steed on the piano, with suitable music very softly played.
Verses read by the announcer in introducing the pictures:
PICTURE ONE?ORGANIZATION OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY, MARCH 17, 1842.
In effecting this organization the Prophet Joseph Smith not only turned the key for the advancement of the women of the Latter-day Saints, but he also opened the portals of progress for all the women of the world.
O woman! Thy tears and thy travail have triumphed, Thy prayers have prevailed in His presence on high; No more shall thy fetters of bondage confine thee. Rejoice! For thine hour of deliverance is nigh.
PICTURE TWO?OUR FIRST PRESIDENT EMMA H. SMITH
Called an elect lady by Divinity, The wife beloved of the prophet seer, Commanded to exhort and to expound, She must a bright and beacon light appear Where'er progressive women may be found.
PICTURE THREE?OUR SECOND PRESIDENT, ELIZA R. SNOW
What words can quite express her excellence of womanhood! Though childless, yet a mother heart for all the world had she; In council wise, in leadership a mighty force she stood; And yet we know and love her most for her sweet minstrelsy.
PICTURE FOUR?OUR THIRD PRESIDENT, ZINA D. H. YOUNG
An empire builder, she, of noble worth Who made the wheels of industry go round. She spun and wove the silk at her own hearth And helped a glorious commonwealth to found. Great in her faith and love and charity She gave herself in their sweet ministry.
PICTURE FIVE?OUR FOURTH PRESIDENT, BATHSHEBA W. SMITH
She was a member of the charter band, In spirit calm, serene, and wondrous mild, With strength and dignity at her command, And in her faith and duty undefiled.
PICTURE SIX?OUR FIFTH PRESIDENT, EMMELINE B. WELLS
She garnered in the wheat, lest famine might befall, And when the war cry rang we harkened to its call. Dear Aunt Em, how many of us yet can see Her as she passed along in gentle reverie. To her, rare gifts and graces nature kindly gave, So quaintly sweet, and yet so strong and brave.
PICTURE SEVEN?OUR SIXTH AND PRESENT PRESIDENT, CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS
With wise intent and vision keen She leads a mighty throng, Her watchword "Better Service" Through our fifty thousand strong! Health and work and recreation, Greater faith through education; Better chance to live, to grow, Through these bounties we bestow. Down through the years her name shall be Called blessed for such ministry.
PICTURE EIGHT?FEEDING THE HUNGRY
Like angels of mercy the hungry they feed, In generous portions they give of their fare, And ofttimes they learn in that hour of grave need That the gift which they gave was an answer to prayer.
PICTURE NINE?CLOTHING THE NEEDY
The cry of distress is the password That opens their bountiful store; Is it clothing for someone they need? It is theirs e'er they pass from their door.
PICTURE TEN?VISITING THE SICK
With flower-laden hands, they go on their way To visit the sick and the sore. Words of good cheer and of comfort, they say, As they journey from door to door.
PICTURE ELEVEN?COMFORTING THOSE WHO MOURN
Where the angel of death his grim harvest is taking, They are there with their service and love to console, They bind up the heart that is breaking, And comfort the grief-stricken soul.
Palmyra Stake (Flower Garden Project.)
For part of the special activity work done by Palmyra stake during Summer, 1926, a flower project was sponsored by the Relief Society women of the communities. The object was: the beautification of every community in the stake; the slogan: "A flower garden at every home;" the goal: a garden at 65% of homes in stake. The following methods were used: the projects were outlined and material prepared by specialists, and the work was done under the direction of two stake project leaders and two project leaders in each ward. The services of Miss Ruby Smith, Home Demonstration Agent, were procured and much praise is due the very splendid help and cooperation received from her. During the season, survey questionnaires were sent out to ward leaders, surveys were also made by stake leaders and home agents, as a means of checking up on gardens. The response from the communities was indeed commendable. Homes where flowers had never been grown before blossomed, as it were, "like a rose." Homes in rural districts, where the woman had even to carry the water, were a delight to see.
On August 19 a very successful flower show was held in Spanish Fork City Pavilion. The big auditorium was a mass of beautiful flowers, artistically arranged by wards, each of which conducted their own displays, and also vied one with another in point of beauty. Cash prizes were given by stake board along lines befitting such an enterprise. To defray expenses incident to this undertaking the stake board members furnished and sold refreshments. It is felt by the stake and ward workers that this is only the beginning of a very bright and delightful future, when hearts will be made glad by the beautifying of the homes, where the most precious of all flowers are reared?the children.
Woodruff Stake.
Soon after the organization of the new Lyman stake, the stake presidency and one board member of the Woodruff stake, from which the new stake was taken, motored to Lyman and met with the new Lyman stake Relief Society Board in a very enjoyable meeting. They transferred to the Lyman stake Relief Society all stake dues paid in 1926, from the wards now comprising the Lyman stake, and discussed with them a number of subjects relating to Relief Society work. Later the stake secretary of Woodruff met with the new stake secretary to go over the annual report with her and give her such information regarding it as will be helpful to her.
Southern States Mission.
The interior of the Greenville chapel at Greenville, South Carolina, presented a beautiful appearance at the conference held September 4 and 5. This was due to the labors of the members of the Relief Society in that branch. A new rug was placed on the stand, rubber runners on the aisles and new shades on the windows. The cost of these improvements amounted to $200. The Relief Society donated $170 of this amount and the Mutual Improvement Association donated $30. The walls of the chapel were calcimined and the building thoroughly renovated for the conference. The floral decorations were beautiful, the stand and pulpit being adorned with lovely flowers. Mrs. Gillard, a non-member, loaned four handsome potted ferns for the occasion. The Relief Society sisters, aided by the young ladies of the Mutual Improvement Association, assisted in the preparation and serving of meals between the meetings on Saturday and Sunday. At one of the luncheons it was estimated that upwards of two hundred people were served. The members of the Church donated sufficient money to provide the food. The repast consisted of chicken sandwiches, ham, chicken, cakes, pies, bananas, etc. Mrs. Goggins, a non-member, donated five gallons of ice cream, which was served at one of the luncheons. Mrs. Matilda Crosby is the president of the Greenville Relief Society, Mrs. Armentha Ginn, first counselor, Mrs. Sarah Staton, second counselor, and Mrs. Annie Grieg, secretary-treasurer.
At the close of the Sunday afternoon meeting, Mrs. Grace E. Callis, president of the Relief Societies in the Southern States mission, held a meeting with the sisters of the Relief Society. Representatives of the Greenville, Columbia, Hartsville, Seneca, Catawba, and other branches were present. They had an excellent report to make of their work.
California Mission.
The San Francisco Relief Society has made a most enviable record in the matter of securing subscriptions to the Relief Society Magazine. There are thirty-eight members in the organization, and they have sent in fifty-eight subscriptions. The subscribers consist of 38 members, 12 L. D. S. Women, non-members of the organization, and 8 non-members of the Church.
European Mission.
Halifax Branch, Leeds conference. Following is an extract from a letter received from Mrs. Lucy D. Walker, president of the Halifax Relief Society. "We enjoy the Relief Society Magazine more than you can know. We take the literary lessons as they are published, and are delighted with them. We also read other articles from its pages, in fact we have each month a 'Magazine night.' Perhaps you will be pleased to know that we have a very fine little Relief Society in Halifax, and that we are all interested in our studies and our work in general. Since the beginning of 1926, we have given 91 gifts, some small and some larger, to the sick and needy of our own branch, and to worthy outside friends. We have 13 enrolled members and have an average attendance, with visitors, for the year so far, of 14. We are all happy in our work and enjoy our meetings, and are delighted to be numbered in so grand an organization as the Relief Society of our Church. All the members send love and greetings to the officers and members of the General Board, and appreciate your labors in our behalf."
Edinburgh Branch, Scottish Conference. In the Edinburgh branch recently, the members made the Relief Society meeting the occasion to bid farewell to Mrs. Elizabeth Crowford, who, with her husband and son were leaving for Zion. On behalf of the members and friends Mrs. Crowford was presented with a dressing case, and a wallet was given to her husband. In making the presentation Mrs. Hughina Falconer spoke of the goodwill and esteem they all held for Mrs. Crowford's labor and faithfulness in the work of the branch, also their sorrow to part with her, while rejoicing that she has obtained her heart's desire in being privileged to gather to Zion. In reply Mrs. Crowford told of her joy in the work of the Lord, and urged those present to support Mrs. Janet Ferguson, the president. A delightful program was carried out by those present. The meetings in Edinburgh continue to grow, and are most enjoyable. The officers are: Mrs. Janet Ferguson, president; Mrs. Hughina Falconer and Mrs. Anna Percy, counselors; Mrs. Jean Waldis, secretary-treasurer.
Teton Stake.
The Teton stake arranged with the Health Committee of Boise, for a health conference which was held last August 13, 14 and 16, 140 children being examined. The stake is now asking the state department for a six-day conference for 1927. The health conference has stimulated interest in the social service lessons. The stake is also cooperating with the extension division of Idaho University in holding nutrition classes through the stake, and in getting in touch with the mothers and encouraging them in the follow-up work. A stake teachers' convention was held on October 31, at which suitable topics were given. The stake presidency and bishops were special guests on the occasion.
Idaho Falls Stake Reorganized.
On October 14, the Idaho Falls stake Relief Society was reorganized. Mrs. Mayme Laird, who has faithfully and efficiently labored as stake president for a number of years, was honorably released with a unanimous vote of confidence and appreciation. Mrs. Laird has been considered one of the strongest of the stake presidents of the Church, and during her administration much has been accomplished in this stake. While she has been especially interested in health and charity work, she has not neglected the educational work for members. Mrs. Laird was elected to the School Board of Idaho Falls in the early Fall, and felt that the two positions would be too taxing on her strength. The following new officers were sustained: Mrs. Clara Brunt, president; Mrs. Mattie R. Telford, first counselor; Mrs. Emma Jensen, second counselor; Mrs. Hazel H. Caine, secretary; Mrs. Grace Ritchie, treasurer; Mrs. Mary L. Hatch, member of the Board.
REFERENCES FOR ANNIVERSARY PROGRAMS
"First Minutes of Relief Society," January Magazine, 1915, page 20; "Instructions of the Prophet Given at Nauvoo," March Magazine, 1915, page 91; "Object, Aims and Brief History of Relief Society," March Magazine, 1915, page 111; "Sketches of the First Five General Presidents," March Magazine, 1920, page 127; "Sketches of President Clarissa S. Williams," July Magazine, 1921, page 378; "Story of the Organization," March Magazine, 1919, page 127; "Our Anniversary," March Magazine, 1921, page 137; "Relief Society Teaching," December Magazine, 1916, page 668; "Relief Society Annual Day," Feb. Magazine, 1923, page 62; "National Woman's Relief Society?History and Accomplishments," March Magazine, 1925, page 115. - Guide Lessons for April 'LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in April) THE WOMEN OF THE MESSIANIC DISPENSATION (Continued) Elizabeth and Martha and Mary of Bethany Elizabeth: Measured by the magnitude of her mission, this woman stands next to the mother of Jesus in the line of greatness. She was a descendant of Aaron and a kinswoman of Mary; thus having within her veins the blood of royal and priestly descent. Her name Elizabeth, meaning worshiper of God, fitted her nature. She became the wife of a descendant of Aaron, a devout man and they lived to a good old age childless. Her husband |was a Judean priest. The day on which he kept the incense burning on the altar in the inner court of the temple and supplicated the Lord for posterity was a most eventful one for Elizabeth. 1 She was officially announced, by an angel from on high, as an. Elect woman, who said to Zacharias, the priest, thy wife Elizabeth shall bear thee a son, and thou shalt call his name John. The loftiness of her election can be understood in the light of the words of the Savior, recorded in Luke 7:28. The d?claration made her by the Lord is to the effect that Elizabeth was the mother of one of the greatest prophets ever born. In explanation of the declaration of Jesus concerning the greatness of John the Baptist, the prophet Joseph Smith is recorded as saying: "It could not have been on account of the miracles John performed, for he did no miracles; but it was, first, because he was trusted with a divine mission of preparing the way before the face of the Lord. Who was trusted with such a mission before or since? Noman. Second, he was trusted, and it was required at his hand, to baptize the Son of Man. Whoever did that? Whoever had so great a privilege or glory? Whoever led the Son of God into the waters of baptism, beholding the Holy Ghost descend upon him in the sign of a dove? No man." (Gems of Joseph Smith, Compendium, p. 277.)  At Elizabeth's home, in the Judean hills, she enjoyed the confidential companionship of Mary. The sublime nature of this companionship may be understood in part by thinking of how "