WAR OF THE REVOLUTION.

	THE Revolutionary War and the causes 
that led up to it.
	In handling this subject I shall be com-
pelled to quote largely from Ridpath whose
history I have been studying and whose
language explains perfectly what I wish to
tell. The war of American Independence
was an event of vast moment, affecting the
destiny of all nations. The question de-
cided by the conflict was this, whether the
English colonies in America becoming
sovereign should govern themselves or be
ruled as dependencies of a European Mon-
archy. The result has been the grandest
and most promising example of a Republi-
can government in the history of the
world. It is of the first importance to
understand the causes of the war. The
most general cause of the American Revo-
lution was the right of arbitrary govern-
ment claimed by Great Britian and denied
by the colonies. The question began to be
openly discussed about the time of the
treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle in 1748. But there
were also many subordinate causes. First
of these was the influence of France which
was constantly exerted so as to excite a
spirit of resistance in the colonies. It was
the theory of France that by giving up
Canada on the North the English colonies
would become so strong as to renounce
their allegiance to the Crown. England
feared such a result. More than once it
was proposed in Parliament to recede Can-
ada to France in order to check the growth
of the American states. Another cause
leading to the Revolution was found in the
natural disposition and inherited character
of the colonies. They were for the most
part Republicans in politics and dissenters
in religion. The people of England were
monarchists and High-Churchmen. The
colonists had never seen a king; their deal-
ings with the royal officers had been such
as to engender a dislike for monarchial in-
stitutions. The growth of public opinion
in the colonies tended to independence.
The more advanced thinkers came to be-
lieve that a complete separation from Eng-
land was not only possible but desirable.
	As early as 1755 John Adams then a
young school teacher in Connecticut wrote
in his diary “In another century all Europe
will not be able to subdue us.” Such
opinions were at first expressed in private,
then by hints in pamphlets and newspapers,
and at last publicly and everywhere.
Another cause of the conflict with the
mother country was found in the personal
character of the king. George third, who
ascended the English throne in 1760 was a
stubborn, stupid, thick-headed man in
whose mind the notion of human rights
was entirely wanting. His reign of sixty
years was as odious as it was long. His
ministers were for the most part men as

