EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE World’s Fair articles and report
of the Relief Society Conference of this
Stake are laid over until the next issue of
the paper to make room for shorter articles
that have come in and also for the long but
very excellent poem by Lu Dalton.
	BOUQUETS of flowers, roses, carnations
and other varieties fresh from the summer
gardens have been presented to us since our
return, fragrant with sweet perfume and 
more precious still because of the loving
hearts that prompted the beautiful gifts.
	MRS. MARGARET A. CAINE left for
Chicago on Saturday July 1st, to superin-
tend the silk processes.  Mrs. Eliza
Fosgreen of Brigham City and Miss Ella
Pyper of this City, have gone on with her
to reel and weave the silk in the Woman's
Building on the Fair grounds.
	Mrs. Salisbury Lady Commissioner for
Utah and Miss Keogh her altermate have
both gone East this month to meet with
the Board of Lady Managers, Mrs. Palmer
particularily desired Mrs. Salisbury's
presence on important matters, she will
probably not remain away very long.
Meantime the silk interest here will not be
neglected as all matters will be promptly
attended to by Mrs. C. W. Bennett, Chair-
man of the Silk Committee for Utah.
	THE ladies of Utah interested in the
World's Fair work will be pleased to know
that Mrs. Emily S. Richards, President of
the Territorial Board of Managers, returned
recently from Chicago, though her stay at
home will probably not be a long one, as
the arduous duties of the office, require so
much that must necessarily be attended to
or superintended personally.  Mrs. Rich-
ards will enjoy the fresh and invigorating
mountain air after being stifled up in a
crowded City, and in the Utah Building
where such crowds of people congregate
every day—the responsibility must be very
wearing and tiresome.  It is a position,
however, where the President has a great
opportunity to impart imformation and re-


move prejudice from the minds of the
people. Mrs. Richards and Miss Preston
both seem to have made a most favorable
impression upon the people with whom
they have been associated while at the post
of duty. We welcome them home, and
trust they may rest and recruit ready for
the fall campaign, which is likely to be more
trying because of the numerous attendance
and the state ceremonies on the ninth of
September.


