	MRS. LAURA ORMISTON CHANT ad-
dressed an enthusiastic audience at Parsons,
Kan., on June 24, and preached twice on
the following Sunday.

	THE statue of Queen Victoria, the work
of Princess Beatrice, the youngest daughter
of the Queen, has been highly commended
for its artistic merit. It was unveiled by
the Queen in person, June 28, in Kensing-
ton Gardens.

	MRS. HELEN M. GOUGAR  has been
elected a member of the Board of Trustees
of Hillsdale College, Michigan, of which
institution she is a graduate. She has al-
so been made President of the Board of
Women Commissioners who are to raise
$50,000 with which to endow two chairs to
be filled by women who are to sit with the
faculty clothed with powers equal to the
male professors.

	IT is stated that Mrs. Palmer has allowed
her salary to accumulate until it is about
$7,000 and the bill for this she will now
present on request of the treasury depart-
ment so that it may be paid in the Isabella
quarter dollar coins. The issue of these is
only $10,000 and Mrs. Palmer takes this
course on behalf of the Board of Lady
Managers so as to keep the coins from be-
coming speculative property on the part of
outsiders.

	AT the annual meeting of the Hampden
County W. C. T. U. at Chicopee, recently,
a resolution against the Sunday opening of
the Columbian Fair was adopted. Mrs.
Beesie Blodgett entered a vigorous pro-
test. She thought she could do more for
Christ by going to the World’s Fair on
Sunday and taking 500 sinners with her,
than she could by staying away and keeping
the sinning 500 away. When the vote was
taken, Mrs. Blodgett was the only one who
opposed the resolution.

	THE first general meeting of women
lawyers ever held will occur in Chicago,
Aug. 3, 4 and 5 next, in the Isabella club-
house, under the auspices of the law de-
partment of the Queen Isabella Association.
There will be papers, discussions and con-
ference meeting, the object being to pro-
mote acquaintance among those interested
in the practical work of the profession.
All women in the United States, and else-
where, who have been admitted to the bar
of a court of record, or graduated from a
law school, are especially invited to be
present. Miss Ellen A. Martin, of No.
84 LaSalle Street, Chicago, is chairman of
the committee on arrangements.—Ex.


HE that would make real progress in
knowledge must dedicate his age as well as
youth, the latter growth as well as the
first fruits, at the altar of truth.—Berkeley.


