P. A. CACHE STAKE.

Editor Woman’s Exponent.
	Thinking a few items in regard to our 
Primary work in this county might be ap-
preciated by your many readers, I will in-
form you as accurately as possible in regard
to the condition in this Stake. We have
just finished holding our annual District
Conferences. The first was held in Logan
embracing nine wards, over four hundred
children were in attendance. Next Con-
ference was held in Hyrum with good atten-
dance, in fact there was a good attendance
at all the conferences. We held one also
in Paradise, in Wellsville, in Mendon, in
Smithfield, in Richmond and Newton,
Sister Lillie T. Freeze of the Territorial
board, and Sister Aurelia Rogers of Farm-
ington, President of the Primaries were
with us, and attended all our meetings.
The children were well prepared at each
conference and acquitted themselves very
creditably. The attendance of boys was
not as large as it would have been, had it
not been a busy season for them but in the
eight conferences we met five hundred, and
one thousand and fifty-eight girls, making
a total of eighteen hundred and eight child-
ren. We have thirty associations in Cache
Stake, with an enrollment of about two
thousand three hundred and seventy-one.
I have not the exact number but this is
as near as I can get at present. The usual
attendance is good in all the wards. We
hold district conferences every year, and
visit the annual meeting each ward as far
as possible. We also have Fairs held every
year, and the work of children both boys
and girls is very creditable.
	Much credit is due the officers of the dif-
ferent associations. We have a band of
able energetic women who are using their
time and talent freely, for the improve-
ment of the children of Zion, and these
children are showing great improvement
in their manner, and their morals are not
neglected. Our exercises are about the
same as in other Stakes but we are always
on the alert for any good thing which will
help along the good work. Our President
Sister Jane E. Molen is an indefatigable
worker, and under her influence things are
sure to prosper. Siseer Freeze always has
good things to say to us, and of us, and the
children in this Stake expect her at their
yearly conference, as she has endeared her-
self to them all. We hope next year to
have Sister Felt visit us as she has never
been able to favor us so far with a visit.
One of the pleasant features of our associ-
ations is the number of young girls and
boys who have almost grown up in the as-
sociation, who still continue in them, and
aid the officers in their work, by so doing
they are a power among the small ones, and
a help almost beyond comprehension and
the officers appreciate them. Hoping the
associations in Zion may continue in
growth and good works. I remain a Pri-
mary worker,
                         MATTIE BLAIR HANSON,
Logan, Utah.


