HANNAH T. KING.

	THE 1st,of July Saturday was observed by
a few intimate friends in accordance with
arrangements made two years ago, to set
apart a day to the memory of this gifted
woman. At the hour named in the invi-
tation several ladies assembled at the resi-
dence of Mrs. Emily H. Woodmansee a sis-
ter poet and country woman of Mrs. King’s,
the afternoon and early evening were devot-
ed to reminescences of the life, writings and
friendships of Mrs. King. One of the 
dear ones who had been present on the
former occasions, was sadly missed, and 
some tears were visible when the fact was 
alluded to, but we all know and realize 
that Sister Howard has only passed to a 
higher position and therefore we rejoice in
the midst of our mourning that she has
reached the spirit world where many
of our loved ones are waiting.
	Mrs. Woodmansee’s rooms were prettily
decorated with flowers and vines, and the
day was a charming one.
	The guests present were Mesdames Zina
D. H. Young, M. Isabella Horne, Helen
M. Whitney, Emmeline B. Wells, Fewson
Smith, Maggie Alford, Louisa Spencer,
Elizabeth Mc Farlane, Kate Brockbank,
Maggie Young, Julia C. Howe,Lula Greene
Richards, Emily H. Woodmansee (the
efficent hostess) and the young ladies of
the house, three daughters, Gladys, Pearl,
Myrtle and niece Edith Ivins of St. G[-]orge;
the dining-room was cool and pleasant, the
trailing vines, at the east window made a
graceful background for the picture, when
the guests were seated. At each place 
was a double card addressed to the person
occupying the seat, and on one side an ap-
propriate quotation from the Book of
Psalms, (which Mrs. King loved so much)
and on the other the stanza versified by
Mrs. Woodmansee, so as to make the
souvenir in remembrance of both Mrs.
King and Mrs. Woodmansee. After the 
repast, which it is safe to say everyone en-
joyed, each one present paid a fitting tribute
to Mrs. King as a memorial of friendship
either by repeating one of her own verses
or a few words impromptu. A sonnet by
Mrs. King was read by Mrs. Wells.

I love thee st[-]l[-]! these words contain,
A language that the angels do rehearse,
Yes, yes ’tis written in the universe—
The hills and mountains do its truth proclaim,
The running brooks and all the mountain streams
The glorious sun with his effulgent beams;
The ambrosial air, the flowers sweet perfume;
The song of birds, the stars that do illume;
And ah! the silver moon, the queen of night,
On which the lover’s mind doth so delight—
All these proclaim with never failing thrill
To the responsive soul, I love thee still.

	After repairing to the parlor again Mrs.
Wells read each of the souvenirs for the
benefit of all,and ice cream and sweetmeats
were served, when all joined in singing
“O, my Father thou that dwellest,” and a 
benediction was pronounced by Mrs. Zina
D. H. Young. During the afternoon many 
beloved ones who have passed away were 
remembered and their virtues alluded to

