PASSING THOUGHTS.

	DRESS AND COLOR:—In a woman’s paper
the subject of dress finds a very fitting
place, for what woman does not delight to
a greater or less degree in the arranging of
the toilette, and in the present time the
theme is considered of sufficient impor-
tance not only to be discussed in the
fashion magazines but in the metropolitian
dailies and monthly reviews as well as in
public meetings, and conventions. “How
shall we dress?” is now a momentous
question, shall we adopt the Jenness Miller
style and consider our health while our
fashionable sisters follow the French
modiste and are conspicious in crinoline,
shall we wear the Syrian blouse and bloom-
ers with the knee skirt or continue sweep-
ing the streets with the graceful but abom-
inable bell skirt.
	The woman of sense need ask no questions
in order to always look well dressed, for in
this day of such varied fashions there are a
few simple rules to follow which though a
woman be poor or rich, old or young home-
ly or beautiful she may appear fashionable
and well dressed; avoid extremes select a
becoming color or combination of colors
and make your dresses neat.
	How we have laughed at the pictures of
our older sisters taken long ago in what
was then termed the Deseret costume, but
do you know it differs very little from the
pretty and becoming Jenness Miller suit.
	Some few Utah women adopted this
Deseret suit and made every effort to induce
all the woman of Utah to do so, but it was
a failure. It was not the fashion and the
women refused to wear it though it was
certainly not half so ugly as the immense
hoops they adopted shortly after.
	Each woman has a personality, which is
distinguished often in her dress, and
somehow we have always, until recently
objected to uniforms, (that is on ourselves)
but nowadays surely woman’s dress is be-
coming much the same everywhere. The
uniform, I call it, is this most common, but
quite taking and “swell like” navy blue
skirt and blazer with the fresh pretty shirt
waist. A lady friend recently arrived from
Chicago, says one can scarcely tell one wo-
man from another on the streets for they
all have navy blue dresses, shirt waists,
sailor hats and low tan shoes. A costume
simple pretty and neat but a uniform never-

