OBITUARIES.
DIED at Oakley Cassia Co. Idaho, April 17th,
of consumption; Louisa Augusta Smith, eldest
child of John L. Smith and Julia Haight Smith,
born August 10, 1880, at Lublett Creek Idaho.
Aged twelve years four months and seven days.
Sister Louisa was a very examplary child, ever
thoughtful and kind at home, a member of Sab-
bath School and Primary Association, she loved
to read and took much pleasure reading the
Juvenile Instructor, which she enjoyed even dur-
ing her last moments.
All join her parents in mourning the loss of
the dear child. May her rest and sleep be sweet.
Editor Exponent:
IT is with feelings of sadness we have been
called to part with one of our sisters. Sister
Mary Butters departed this life April 17th, 1893,
aged seventy-three years,five months and fourteen
days She was born at Elling Green, Derehma,
Norfolk, England. Emigrated to Utah with her
family in 1869; she was a faithful sister and in
losing her we have lost one of the most energetic
of our teachers. She was always willing and
ready to assist any one both in sickness and
health when called on, when for her own health's
sake it would have been wise to have refused.
She left Morgan to visit her daughter, Mrs.
Culmer S. L. City and attend the dedication of
the Temple, but was taken sick and never had
that privilege. She leaves several children and
grand children to mourn her loss, her husband
having preceded her several years.
At the resurrection morning,
We shall all appear as one;
Oh! what robes of bright adorning
Will the righteous then put on.
S. A. RAWLE Cor. Sec.
Morgan City, May 1, 1893.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
To the memory of Esther Lenora Tyler wife of
Robert M. Tyler, who died February 15th, 1893,
in Alpine, Apache Co. Arizona. She was the
daughter of Sylvester H.and Roseltha M. Pearce.
She was born in Provo, Utah, September 1st 1868.
She was the mother of five children four of whom
survive her. The last an infant daughter is
sleeping by her side.
Sister Tyler was a true wife and mother and a
faithful Latterday Saint and was a member of the
Relief Society during her residence here.
Whereas our Heavenly Father has seen fit to
call from our midst our beloved sister, therefore
be it,
Resolved, that in her death we the members of
the Relief Society recognize the loss of a faithful
co-laborer. 
Resolved, that we extend our sympathy to the
bereaved family.
Resolved that a copy of these resolutions be
presented to the sorrowing family, a copy
published in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT and a copy
be placed upon the record of the Relief Society.
JANE NOBLE, President. 
