[Column 2]
incompetent and illiberal as himself. With
such a king and such a ministry it was not
likely that the descendants of the Pilgrims
would get on smoothly. The more im-
mediate cause of the Revolution was the
passage by Parliament of a number of acts
destructive of colonial liberty. The subject
of this unjust legislation which extended
over a period of twelve years just preced-
ing the war, was the question of taxation.
The American colonies claimed the full
right of the Englishman. With good rea-
son it was urged that the general assemblies
of colonies, held the same relation to the
American people as did the House of
Commons to the people of England. The
English ministers replied that Parliament
and not the colonial assemblies was the
proper body to vote taxes in any and all
parts of the British empire. It is now
proper to notice the several acts which the
colonies complained of and resisted. The
first of these was the Importation Act
passed in 1733 by which exorbitant duties
were laid on all sugar, molasses, and rum
imported into the colonies. In 1750 it was
further enacted that iron works should not
be erected in America. The manufacture
of steel was especially forbidden and the
felling of pines outside of inclosures was
interdicted. All of these laws were
deemed as unjust and tyrannical. In 1761
a strenuous effort was made to enforce the
Importation Act and already there were
hints of resistance by force of arms. In
1763 at a great town meeting Samuel
Adams made a powerful argument showing
conclusively, that under the British con-
stitution taxation and representation were
inseparable. The year 1764 witnessed the
most formal declaration of the purpose of
Parliament to tax the colonies. Mr.Grenville
was now prime minister, on the tenth of
March a resolution was adopted by the
House of Commons declaring that it would
be proper to charge certain stamp duties on
the American colonies. The news having
been carried to America universal excite-
ment and indignation prevailed. Political
meetings became the order of the day
formal remonstrances were addressed to
the king and the two houses of Parliament,
and agents were appointed and sent to
London in the hope of preventing the
passage of the law. A new turn was now
given to the controversy. Through the
French and Indian War just concluded
Great Britian had incurred a heavy debt
which the ministers said ought to be borne
by the colonies
	The Americans replied that England
ought to defend her colonies, that in the
prosecution of the war the colonies had
aided Great Britian as much as Great
Britian had aided them, yet it was not the
payment of money which they dreaded but
the surrender of their liberties. In March
1765 Parliament no longer guided by the
counsels of Pitt passed the celebrated
Stamp Act. “The sun of American liberty
has set, wrote Benjamin Franklin to a
friend at home. The provisions of the
Stamp Act were briefly these. Every note,
land-deed, mortgage, lease, license, and
legal document of whatever sort required in
the colonies, should after the first day of the
following November be executed on paper
bearing an English stamp. This stamped
paper was to be furnished by the British
Government, and for each sheet the colonists
were required to pay a sum varying accord-
ing to the nature of the document from

[Column 3]
three pence to six pound sterling. Every
colonial pamphlet, almanac, and newspaper
was required to be printed on paper of the
same sort. The value of the stamps in
this case ranging from a half penny to  a
fourpence. Every advertisement was taxed
two shillings. No contract should be of
any binding force, unless written on paper
bearing the royal stamp. The news of the
hateful act, swept over America like a
thunder cloud. The people were at first
grief stricken, then indignant; then wrath-
ful. The muffled bells of Philadelphia and
Boston rang a funeral peal and the people
said it was the death knell of liberty. The
general assemblies were slow to move, as
there were many loyalists among the mem-
bers and the governors held their offices by
appointment of the king, but the younger
representatives hot-headed as well as patri-
otic did not hesitate to express their senti-
ments. In the Virginia House of Burgesses 
there was a memorable scene. Patrick
Henry a young member from Louisa coun-
ty waited for older men to lead in the
opposition to Parliament, but they failing to
do so, he in his passionate way, snatched a
blank leaf out of an old law book and
hastily drew up a series of fiery resolutions,
declaring that the Virginians were English-
men with English rights; and had the same
rights to vote their own taxes as had the
English. A violent debate ensued in
which the Patriots had the best of the
argument. It was a moment of intense
interest. Two future presidents were in
the audience, Washington and Thomas
Jefferson. The eloquent and indignant
orator said "Tarquin and Caesar had each
his Brutus, Charles First had his Cromwell
—Treason; Treason! shouted the speaker
which was echoed by the terrified loyalists
springing to their feet and George third
may profit by their example continued,
Henry adding as he took his seat. If that
be treason make the most of it. The reso-
lutions were put to the house and carried
and similar resolutions were adopted by the
assemblies of New York and Massachusetts,
in the latter state before the action of
Virginia was known. At Boston, James
Otis successfully agitated the question of an
American Congress nine of the colonies
appointed delegates, and on the seventh of
October the first colonial congress assembled
at New York. A Declaration of Rights
was adopted setting forth in unmistakable
terms that the American colonists could not,
and would not be taxed but by their own
representatives. At the same time a manly
petition professing loyalty and praying for
a more just and humane policy toward his
American subjects was directed to the king.
During the summer great quantities of the
stamped paper had been sent to America
which was destroyed or sent back to Eng-
land. In Connecticut the stamp officer was
threatened with hanging. The first of
November came and was kept as a day of
mourning. Stores were closed, flags hung
at half mast, bells were tolled etc., legal
business was entirely suspended, court
houses were closed, society was at a stand-
still, not even a marriage license could be
legally issued. By and by the offices were
opened and business went on as before but
was not transacted with stamped paper.
	(To be Continued.)


Verily, hypocrits sink into a lower abyss
than any other sinner.—Mohammed.


