THREE SCORE AND TEN.

	It was a very pleasant gathering that
met at the residence of Sister Julia C.
Howe, on the 17th day of June, 1893.
That date being her seventieth birthday.
	About twenty five of her many friends
assembled to do honor to her on the oc-
casion. This party was a complete sur-
prise to Sister Howe. While she was at-
tending the semi-monthly meeting in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, the
sisters gathered at her home, and upon her
return she found them in possession and
herself their honored guest. She was greet-
ed with congratulations and good wishes
from every one present. While notes of
regret for absence, and congratulations were
received from several dear friends who were
unable to be present.
	The company was made up of old and
young. There were present those whom
Sister Howe had labored with for many
years in the Relief Society, others there
were who had been associated with and in-
structed by her in the Y. L. M. I. A. and
still others who had graduated under her
watch care from the Primary Association,
and were now useful workers in the Y. L.
M. I. A., and last but not least were dear
friends, whom the Gospel had bound to her
and to each other with a bond of friendship
so lasting as to extend into eternity.
	After the first effects of the surprise had
subsided a little, the gathering resolved it-
self into a meeting,Sister Lydia D. Alder be-
ing unanimously chosen chairman. Re
marks were made by the sisters, expressive
of love and good wishes for Sister Howe
and appreciation of her labors.
	Mothers spoke with gratitude of the
great good Sister Howe had done and was
doing for their children. Young ladies re-
ferred to the benefit she had been to them
as members of the Primary and Y. L. M.
I. A. Friends testified of the peace and 
comfort she had brought to them in hours
of affliction, sickness and sorrow. Her
untiring and faithful labors in the several
associations of the Seventeenth Ward were
referred to with praise.


Each one felt that the friendship of Sis-
ter Howe was a blessing to be highly ap-
preciated. All felt to congratulate her up-
on her well spent life and youthful appear-
ance, and desired that she might have
many more happy years and continue her
good works and witness their results.
	Sister Howe in a few brief remarks ex-
pressed gratitude for this loving effort on
the part of her friends, thanked them for
their words of love and encouragement, felt
to appreciate the honor bestowed upon her
by those present but felt unworthy of re-
ceiving so much. It did her heart good to
hear her sisters say that she had benefitted
them. Had endeavored to do good, but
many times thought that the endeavor had
failed to result in benefit to any one.
	During their remarks the sisters bore
beautiful testimonies to the truth of the
Gospel, and the peace and unity enjoyed
through the influence of the Spirit of God.
This spirit pervaded the gathering and
each one felt that it was good to be present.
	A pleasant feature of the meeting was
the reading of a poem, written for the oc-
casion by Sister Lydia D. Alder, and read
by her.
	At the close of the meeting delicious re-
freshments were served by the committee
of arrangements, of which all partook with
enjoyment. The remainder of the evening
was spent in social conversation. All went
away feeling that they had enjoyed a feast
temporally and spiritually, and that in
striving to bless and comfort a dearly loved
sister, they had themselves received a
blessing.
	Much credit is due to Sister Howe's
counselors in the Primary Association,
Sister Phebe Y. Beatie and Zina Hyde,
also to Sister Lydia D. Alder and Elizabeth
Stevenson who were the promoters and
took great pleasure in working for the
success of the gathering.
	We would also add that this same date was
the birthday of Sister M. E. Wilcox, who
was present and received many congratu-
lations and good wishes.
					E.D

