[Column 2]
theless. Navy blue is certainly the pre-
vailing color, the truth is, it is not at all
trying—brunettes as well as blondes look
well in it—it is not easily soiled and is ap-
propriate for any occasion but my! how
awfully common,every sailor,soldier, cadet,
policeman, railroad officer, street railway
conductor and motorman, and now the
women as well dress in navy blue, and sad
to admit it but Chinamen also; not real
aristocratic Chinamen but just ordinary
everyday Chinamen.
	Is there not such a thing as extremes
even in color. Not long since black was
the only color women chose for their best
costumes, and only fancy in this dusty
country; the work it took to keep those
black dresses clean. Now gray is the
prettiest and neatest color in the world,
especially for elderly ladies, young women
look well in something brighter, the subdued
half tones of the green, purple, orange and
red; and children, if they are clean, are
beautiful in anything though white is ever
the favorite.
	Children:—What strange things one sees
and hears in a short trip on the street rail-
way; I have sometimes felt like carrying
a note book with me just for the purpose of
jotting down a few items heard on the way
and I am sure it would make an interesting
volume. The other day while the car was
side tracked, I heard a voice behind me re-
lating something about a woman having
given her children away, and I immediately
strained my efforts to catch her every word.
	The thought of a mother giving her own
little ones away seems most terrible, but of
course one does not always know the
circumstances which necessitate such an act,
yet it seems in this instance the mother
only wished to rid herself of the burden
of caring for them and her adieux to them
were neither pitiful nor regretful. Only
think, a woman to be so heartless as to
willingly give away the beautiful gifts of
God, to a stranger; and these children born
from such an unfeeling mother, what can
one expect of them?
	The little boy six years old has already
learned that the street car will carry him to
town for nothing, and day after day he runs
away and stays on the public streets until
ten and eleven o’clock, and two nights I
heard her say he had been out all night
long, having slept in a box on Main street.
Is the guardian firm enough or is the wan-
dering spirit so inherent in him, that the
child is bound to follow a wicked life.
What can the destiny of such a child be? I
thought of the terrible, recent tragedy in
this city when the twelve year old boy shot
the little lad only five years old, and won-
dered if this little wayward child was not
likely to become a youthful criminal.
Does not the woman who accepted the
charge of those children take upon herself
as much responsibility as the natural moth-
er would, and if she is incompetent and
finds she cannot control the child the
county should be advised and find for
them a home where they can be controlled;
stricter measures in the home compelling
obedience is likely to make better citizens.
If we have a curfew law let it be enforced,
at any rate have some regulations to keep
the youth off the streets at night, or else
the reformatories and prison will be filled
sooner than we know.
	Some people make a great mistake about
the Sabbath they seem to think because it
is a day of rest that they must make it the

[column 3]
pleasure day of the week, and they seek
amusement and diversion at the resorts and
public places. To me Sunday is the home
day, a sweet, quiet,restful day.
	I would have as llttle work as possible
around on Sunday, and the children should
neither visit nor go picnicing.  After the
Sunday school they are not restrained and
compelled to sit and read religious books
neither are they allowed to romp and run as
on other days, but a happy quiet time at
home is the Sunday program and I believe
it makes the little ones more thoughtful,
and gives them a reverence for the day we
call the “Lords Day.” Mother’s always
have so many things to do but surely the
baking and brewing and washing and sweep-
ing and all, are not half so urgent or neces-
sary as the care of the little children; keep
them around you mothers all you can, em-
ploy them in some light way, you can’t
imagine the steps a little fellow can save his
mamma waiting on her during the work-
ing hours, and when the work is done per-
haps mamma can find time to play and romp
with the children awhile, try it and see how
soon the roses will come back to your cheeks,
the brightness to the eyes,and the roundness
to the limbs; a game of ball, pomp or hide
and seek, or some childish sport is just as
strengthening as an hour’s drilling with
dumb bells, or Indian clubs in a physical
culture class, and it makes the children
happy and keeps them home with you as
well. CAMELIA.


