[Vol9 | February 1922 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons for April - Lesson III - Literature]

LESSON ITI Literature (Third Week in April) In our foreword for this year, we promised a discussion of some of the leading hymns of Christendom. This lesson will be devoted to "Lead, Kindly Light," by John Henry Newman. The hymn is not found in the L. D. S. Hymn book, but is commonly found in the compilations of well known hymns of other Christian religionists. A period of religious storm and stress in Great Britain is marked by the years 1853 to 1857. The spirit of controversy waxed warm in Oxford University, where John Henry Newman. The noted English essayist, was located. Many of the thinking GUIDE LESSONS. © 113 men of the day were greatly disturbed because of the new science. Darwin's Origin of Species and his Descent of Man had. Made religionists feel that there was something radically wrong in the faith of their fathers, hence, there was a tendency to discard it Yet another group deplored the disposition on the part of the Protestants to adjust to science, and for that reason sought refuge in the Roman Catholic church. This movement at Oxford, 1828, greatly upset a group of literary men. Matthew Arnold grew pessimistic; so deeply impregnated are his poems with the spirit of pessimism that -he is known as the poet of pessimism. Arthur Hugh Clough grew despondent over the matter and suicided, while John Henry Newman finally sought refuge in the mother church. It was during the time of this great soul struggle that Newman wrote, 1833, "Lead, Kindly Light." This justly admired hymn was born in an agony of indecision, when its author was groping for the light. Lead, kindly Light, amid the encircling gloom, Lead thou me on; The night is dark, and I am far from home; Lead thou me on. Keep thou my feet: I do not ask to see The distant scene; one step enough for me." The first and second lines ask for God-to lead in this hour of spiritual confusion. Note the aptness of the words that convey the thought of spiritual uncertainty and darkness. "Lead. Kindly Light, amid the circling gloom," and "the night i: dark, and I am far from home." And again the same thought in other words, "keep thou my feet: I do not ask to see the dis'ant scene, one step enough for me." Mr. Newman has voiced a great spiritual truth, that it were well to accept and magnify a little truth and wait for the greater light than tc reject the little truth because it can not be seen in all its bearings and entirely. "T was not ever thus, nor prayed that thou Shouldst lead me on; I loved to choose and see my path, but now Lead thou me on. I loved the garish day, and spite of fears Pride ruled my will: remember not past years!" In the second stanza we have recognition on the part of the suppliant that those that would be led by the Lord must approach him in a spirit of humility. Most of the stanza is made up of a confession that he had not always been willing  that God should lead. He had felt as most people have undoubtedly felt, some time or other in their lives, that they would like to do a little of the leading themselves. "So long thy power has blest me, sure it still Will lead me on, O'er moor and fen, or crag and torrent, Till the night is gone. And with the morn those angel faces smile, Which I have loved long since and lost awhile. The last stanza is a stanza of faith. The poet feels there may be many severe trials to encounter before he shall see the light again, but there is within his soul an assurance that light wil be given, and that he will soon see the angel faces with thei smiles. It would seem that the poet intends that angel faces shall be taken as synonymous with heaven, as heaven is the abode of the angels, and the place from whence comes light and knowledge. The Oxford movement, 1828, that led to such confusion anc distress among a group of highly gifted men of letters, a well as others, surely must lead the Latter-day Saints to think seriously, for it was not a great many years before (1820) that the boy prophet, nothing doubting, had gone into the wood to pray and had asked the Father, in the simplicity of his heart, which of all the sects was right. The confusion abiding in his mind had been dispelled by a glorious vision in which appeared the Father and the Son. Somehow or other these men of learning did not have the power to unlock the heavens and receive answers to the questions that vexed both heart and brain; consequently there followed a series of soul tragedies.' John Henry Newman wandered back into the Roman Catholic church, after having been traditionated in the thought that the Church had departed from paths of truth and righteousness. Matthew Arnold constantly spoke of something that had gone, recognized the loss of a spiritual entity, without which man is sorely conditioned,. And sought soul's solace in the production of a mass of poetry so pessimistic that it is revolting to many who attempt to read it, despite its rather classic finish. Arthur Hugh Clough could see no hope, and died in doubt. Surely the scriptural statement found fulfilment, "and the wisdom of the wise shall perish." During this time, 1840, Parley P. Pratt was writing: "The morning breaks, the shadows flee, Lo! Zion's standard is unfurled! The dawning of a brighter day Majestic rises on the world.  The clouds of error disappear Before the rays of truth divine; The glory bursting from afar, Wide o'er the nations soon will shine." "Lead, Kindly Light" is one of the literary gems of Christian hymnology. The religious passion or feeling is at high water mark, while the imagery is apt and most delicate. This hymn, sung at President William McKinley's funeral service, is said to have been his favorite hymn. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Have the hymn read in its entirety to the class. Have it sung sometime during the meeting. ' 2. Is the word "Light" in the title used in a literal or figurative sense? 3. Select the words and phrases of the hymn that are indicative of mental struggle. 4, The terms "Church of England," "Established church "Anglican church," and "Episcopal church" are terms used to identify the state church in England. Which. Terms are most commonly used in America? Have some English convert or descendant of some English convert tell the class which terms ar most commonly used in England. 4, What church do people have in mind when they speak cf the mother church? 6. Prove from the experience of these men that "the wisdom and the wise shall perish." 7. How did Joseph Smith obtain his knowledge concerning God and spiritual things? LESSON IV