[Vol9 | February 1922 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons for April - Lesson I - Theology and Testimony]

Guide Lessons for April LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First WEEK IN APRIL) PRAYERS OF REFERENCE Prayers of scriptural reference, i. ¢., those only referred to in scripture, become valuable when considered from the following points of view: First, the condition and circumstances under which they were written; second, the evident objective; third, the effect or result of the prayer. Even a list of prayers of reference would be too long to insert in this lesson; it will, therefore, be necessary to confine ourselves mainly to one example. The most memorable in the group of prayers of referenece is the first prayer of the first pair; the first soul's sincere desire uttered outside of Eden; the first approach of humanity toward Divinity; the beginning of correspondence between God and man; the first wireless between earth and heaven; the first conscious approach of man's helplessness that brought down God's helpfulness. Reference has been made to the first of all earthly petitions in previous lessons, both in statement and in problem, but nc attempt has been made toward any specific study of it. CIRCUMSTANCES AND CONDITIONS Adam and Eve, through circumstances that transpired in the garden, had become so predominatingly physical that the presence of their Father was unbearable: they fled from him in the garden, and he, out of necessity and with infinite mercy, banished them from Eden to where there would be a correspondence between their spiritual condition and their physical surrounding, and no danger of eternal existence without eternal progress, though prematurely taking of the Tree of Life. They were outcasts from Eden, and, so far as they knew, were dismissed not only from the presence of the Lord, but fromr his care, guardianship and interest. But unknown to them, his watchcare, solicitude and parental love never ceased to be over them. He had decreed that before the sentence of individual death which Adam faced that the race might live, was carried out, 110.—C««. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE angels should visit the fugitives-——Doctrine and Covenants, 29: 41 to 44. Alone, so far as they knew, the first pair battled with the elements, obeyed the first commandment of Eden with no knowiedge of a hereafter. No word to waken eternal hope, no pull te the beyond, of which they were conscious, except the yearning for immortality. (Pearl of Great Price, Book of Moses, 5: 2-3.) As age crept on more intense grew the yearning within, stronger and stronger came the promptings from without, until outside of the Garden of Eden Adam and Eve offered the first prayer. GREAT OBJECTIVES What were the chief objectives of the first' petition? Was it wealth? They owned the earth. Was it health? Sickness seemed to have been unknown to them. Was it that eternal life knowledge, the way back to God, that they needed? That God lived they knew, but that he was reachable they did not know. They called for a renewal of speaking term acquaintance with him. It was the confident cry of the earth child to the heavenly Father, it was the universal cry, "What wouldst thou?" There were evidently two great objectives in this cry to heaven: Frist, to get the ear of the Lord; second, the obtaining of information through an answer to the question of the ages: "Lord, what shall we do?" A cry exemplified in the call of Saul at his conversion. (Acts 9:6.) The cry on the day of Pentecost. (Acts 2:27.) The appeal to the Lord as to what he would have us do to become his financial partners. (Doctrine and Covenants, Heading, Section 119.) RESULTS Aside from contemplating this prayer, as the initial factor in the opening of the first dispensation of the gospel, we shall be limited to a consideration of the results that directly affected Adam and Eve, the parents of the race. The consideration of the remote results affecting the human family would require volumes. THE FIRST SERIES OF RESULTS The first series of results from the first prayer includes: First, finding the voice of the Lord; (Pearl of Great Price, Book of Moses 5:4;) second, receiving commandments; third, opportunity for exercise in the obedience of confidence, THE SECOND SERIES OF RESULTS The second series of results directly affecting the petitioner= covers: First, the sending of a messenger from heaven; second. The question that tested the simple faith of our first parents: GUIDE LESSONS dil third, the explanation of the symbolic sacrifice; fourth, the revelation of the doctrine of repentance; fifth, the first direct command to pray in the name of Christ; sixth, the individual testimony of the truth of the gospel; seventh, the first gift of prophecy tc man; eighth, the comprehension of the atonement as a plan for God to prove his love for man, and win man's love for God, tc the obtaining of eternal life; ninth, such a keen appreciation of the Lord's wisdom and power in the making of the Fall a means oi exaltation that they rejoiced in the choice they made in Eden, which, however, to this day would have been a source of regret had the Lord not brought good out of it. If it was a "fall upward,' man had no part in making it so. The fall left man with paradise lost, but by the grace of God it became a way to paradise regained. Tenth, the sacred responsibility of teachin: their children the gospel; eleventh, the giving of Adam and Eve a new birth by which he became a free agency son of God and she became a free agency daughter of God. (Pearl of Great Price, = Book of Moses, 5:7-12 and 6:57-68. Doctrine and Covenants 25:1.) Thus beginning with the unrecorded first prayer came ar evolution of the first couple, from babes in the woods, figuratevely speaking, to patriarch and matron, priest and priestess, prophe and prophetess, son and daughter of God. In this respect it will be well to remember that but for the revelation given through the Prophet Joseph, the world would be without direct knowledg of the standing of man and woman in the domestic circle of divinity; twelth, the negative result was the arousing of Satan which sincere prayer always does. We can see that this first prayer of the race may fittingly be called a dispensational prayer, and the first prayer of Joseph Smith comes also in this class. The Sacred Grove is the cherished spot where this latter petition was presented, and Adam-ondiAhman is the place where he blessed his children and wher ha will sit to judge mankind. One Hundred Years of Mormonism, pp. 217 and 219; L. D. S. Hymn Book p. 277; History of the Church, vol II, pp. 354-365; Doctrine and Covenants, section 107 verse 53, and section 116. Is it unreasonable to believe that Adam and Eve offered their first prayer on or near this spot? During one of our general conferences, in Salt Lake City: after the dismissal of an afternoon session, a stranger who was watching the throngs of people com from the tabernacle grounds, said to a news boy, 'What is this all about? Where have these people all come from? Where are they going to? I have never seen the like in any city of this size." "Oh," said the boy, "don't 112 ' RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE you know? This has all come from one little prayer, by one little boy. Buy a paper, please." QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1, From what three standpoints may one profitably stud a prayer of scriptural reference? 2. Show that eternal life in their fallen state would havc been a case of everlasting unhappiness to Adam and Eve. 3. What were the two great objectives of the first prayer? 4, What were the first two commandments resulting from the first prayer? 5. Show that we can not get along in every-day life withou the obedience of confidence. 6. In what sense is baptism a free agency birth? 7. Prove from the scriptures that women may become: the daughters of God. 8. Why may the first prayer of Adam and Eve and the first prayer of Joseph Smith be called dispensational prayers? 9. Where is Adam-ondi-Ahman located, and how is it probably related to the first prayer? 10. What hymn was sting at Adam-ondi-Ahman? LESSON