[Vol9 | February 1922 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: Suggestive Program Lucy May Green]

Suggestive Programs FOR ANNUAL DAY, MARCH 17, 1922 Lucy May Green Annual Day is again with us, and Latter-day Saint women throughout the world will gather together in meetings of praise and gratitude to our Father in heaven for the restoration of the gospel and for the inspiration which led the Prophet Joseph to turn the key and open the door for the emancipation and advancement of woman. Material for programs may be found in the March numbers of volumes 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8, Relief Society Magazine. Those desiring a musical cantata, written especialy for Annual Day will find "The Opened Door," simple, melodious, and appropriate for the occasion. May be obtained from Daynes Beebe Music Co. The pageant, "A Century of Latter-day Saint Womanhood," outlined in the March, 1921, Magazine was given, recently by one of the stakes with splendid success from anartistic, social and financial standpoint. See page 647, Volume 8, Relief Society Magazine. We hope the following programs may be found useful, and that every Relief Society throughout the Church will, in the measure best suited to its conditions, celebrate the auspicious day. Socials at which simple refreshments are served are in order; decorations and favors may be in green in honor of coming spring and "17th of Ireland." A "GRATITUDE" PROGRAM Topics for five-minute talks on gratitude for 1. The gospel. Of Jesus Christ. IT. Our testimony of its truth. III. The sealing power, including (a) marriage for eternity, (b) temple work, IV. Our blessings. V. The joy of service. VI. The land of the free. MUSIC SUGGESTED "How firm a foundation," p. 32; "I know that my Redeemer lives," p. 73; "We thank thee, heavenly Father," p. 80; duet, "Voices from the dead," p. 246, Vol. 7, R. S. Mag; duet, "God bless our mountain home," p. 73; trio, "With heavenly inspiration," p. 129; trio, "Count your blessings"; solo and chorus, "We love our work," p. 138; solo and chorus, "Utah we love thee," p. 101; "America," 98,, The hymns are selected from the Relief Society Hymn Book, out most of them may be found elsewhere. Other topics will suggest themselves,  A DAY IN OLD NAUVOO Hymn, "Now let us rejoice." (Sung at organization of R. 5.) "An angel from on high." Topic for speaker, "Restoration of the gospel." Story for "Nauvoo the Beautiful." Solo for, "The Seer." Topics, "The organization of Relief Society." Trio, "With heavenly inspiration," 129 R. S. Book. Topics, "The Nauvoo temple and last days in Nauvoo." Hymn, "Praise to the man." A "DISARMAMENT PROGRAM" Song, "Come thou glorious day of promise," p. 20 R. Se Book. Solo, "Ring out, sweet bells of peace;" or hymn, "God of our fathers," Sunday School Song Book. Address, "The Disarmament Conference." (See recent numbers of Literary Digest, and other current events magazines for materials. ) Song, "The new freedom song," p. 127 R. S. Hymn Book. Address, "Disarmament for Latter-day Saints." Armor necessary. Ephesians 6. "Garments of salvation." "The whole armor of God." "Put away (Colossians 3) all "Toins girt with truth." anger, wrath, malice, blas- "Breast plate of righteousness." phemy, filthy communication, "Shield of faith." foolish questions: contention, "Helmet of salvation." uncleanliness, hatred, strife, - "Sword of the Spirit." envyings, revellings." (5 GalFeet shod with "Gospel of atians. ) peace." - Light speeches, (loud) laughter, "The mantle of charity." lustful desires, pride, light- "Thy word—a lamp unto the mindedness. Feet." Doc. And Cov. 88:121-124. "The robe of righteousness." Hymn, "Come, oh, thou King of kings." 27 R. S. Book. EIGHTY YEARS OF PROGRESS 1842-1922. Hymn, "Oh blest was the day." Topics, "The organization of the Relief Society, Nauvoo." "Sketch of Emma Smith and her administration." Solo, "The seer." "Eliza R. Snow, great leader and organizer." we RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Home Industry, Retrenchment, Woman's Co-op. General Board. Literary work. Song, "O my Father." Zina D. H. Young.—The silk industry, nurse work, National Council, Temple worker. Bathsheba W. Smith and her times—Temple worker, Relief Society nursing. Classes— 'Emmeline B. Wells—Poet, suffragist, Woman's Exponent, R. S. Magazine, Wheat saving, Home gardening, Choir work, Conservation, Relief Society outlines. Hymn, "Our mountain home so dear." Clarissa S. Williams.—Red Cross worker, Organized charity, War work. R. S. Nurses aids. Biographical sketches will be found, page 126, Vol. 7, R. S. Magazine. Hymn, "We love our work." 138, R. S. Hymn Book. MUSIC PROGRAM World music masterpieces with words adapted to Latterday Saint services. "Angels Serenade," (Braga) 140, R. S. Hymn Book. "Spring song," (Mendelssohn) 132, R. S. Hymn Book. "You'll remember me," (Balfe) 133, R. S. Hymn Book. "Humoresque," (Dvork) 134, R. S. Hymn Book. "Barcarolle,". (Offenbach) 130, R. S. Hymn Book. "Rigoletto," ( Verdi) 128, R. S. Hymn Book. "Juanita," 76, R. S. Hymn Book. "Aloha Oc," (Liliuokalani) 138, R. S. Hymn Book. With one exception the above have been arranged and adapted by Professor Brigham Cecil Gates. Topics for addresses may be music appreciation, or the words of the hymns might be sung, read and discussed. SUGGESTIVE "NEW" SONGS FOR COMMUNITY SINGING "Come Saints, and sing," 116 R. S. Book. "To thee, O heavenly Father, 88 R. S. Book. "We thank thee heavenly Father," 80 R. S. Book. "The gospel message," 132 R. S. Book. "Don't worry," 111 Deseret S. S. Book. "Try it again," 156, Deseret S. S. Book. "Let us treat each other kindly," 146, Deseret S. S. Book. PAGEANT "O ye mountains high," for stake or ward celebration. Orchestra, "Oh ye mountains high." Prologue, "A. D. 1000, Lake Bonneville. I Music, "Nephite lamentation." Bo: ek  Tableau, "Lamanite scene: Crossing the great waters," (Indians, canoes, mountain-tops background. Anthem, "Vales of Deseret," (Evan Stephens). "The Prophecy," (Micah 4:1, 2 and 4). TABLEAU, "THE DESERT" Sage brush, (Sego lilies represented by small children) Indian with canoe on shoulder. Interpretive Dance, "The awakening of the Desert," Desert spirit, and Sego lilies. Lst. Episode, "The coming of the Pioneers." Planting fields, Ensign Peak, Home making. Hymn, "High on the mountain top." TABLEAU, "THE DESERT BLOSSOMING" Scene of Harvest and Home.; Anthem, "Let the mountains shout for joy." Tableau, "Missionaries leaving home." Hymn, "Go, ye messengers of glory." 2nd. Episode, "Gathering to the Mountains." (Assembly of various nationalities, with a number of missionaries in charge.) The farewell, embarking, meeting on ship, the song (Ist. Verse, "O ye mountains high." "The storm at sea." Music, "The storm," or "Peace, be still." Tableau, "Though the great and the wise all thy beauties dispise." Street meeting in foreground: elder preaching: stylishly dressed people hurrying to and fro, few stopping to listen. Interlude, "In thy mountain retreat, God will strengthen thy feet." "March of the Spirits of Progress," industry, art, music, architecture, education, truth, intelligence, righteousness, faith, hope, charity, inspiration, civic pride, homemaking, mutual improvement. These may drill, or dance, or merely pose, while music is softly played or sung. 5 Tableau: "Their silver and gold, as the prophets foretold, shall be brought to adorn thy fair head." Utah attended by maids representing various countries receive gifts, gold, silver, and copper from the mines, harvest products, etc., from farming regions, each country bringing its own gift. State song, "Utah, we love thee."  47TH. EPISODE.—ARRIVAL OF THE SAINTS IN UTAH "The Greeting," Zion, the promised land. "In thy temples we'll bend, ( joy in service) All thy rights we'll defend (soldiers, nurses), And our home shall be ever with thee." Finale,—Grand tableau with all Participating, sing the hymn through. Benediction. The pageant is given in brief outline. The various episodes may be dramatized and dialogue added. Careful attention should be paid to scenery, lighting and costumes, which may be simple or elaborate as desired, the flag should wave over Ensign peak, and should be seen in the state and final tableaux. New Church History The new Church Historian, Elder Joseph Fielding Smith, has signalized his advent into that responsible position with the issu-- ance of a remarkable and illuminating brief History of the Church. We have Whitney's elaborate History of Utah and we have the Formal History of the Church as prepared by Elder B. H. Roberts, already in six volumes, and we have Whitney's Brief History of Utah. A number of years ago a Brief History of the Church was written by Elder Edward H. Anderson, editor of the Era, though none of these, excellent as they are and valuable as they may be to students, will or could take the place of this splendid new and compact array of facts which have been collected and arranged with infinate care and solicitude by our new Church Historian. Accuracy marks every page of the volume; dependability might be said to form the keynote of the book. One feels a sense of finality of appeal and truth in detail. Added to these sterling qualities are the up-to-date references and cross references, paragraph headings in bold type which catch the eye and focus the attention; while all of the mechanical details are worked out in something approaching modern perfection of printing. The style is lucid and while dispassionate, has warmth, conviction, and personality in diction: altogether the book will find a place in every home and in every student's library. We commend it to the women of this organization for study and reference. — Notes/from the Field ' 7 By Amy Brown Lyman Tongan Mission Mrs. LeVera W. Coombs, president of the Relief Society of the Tongan mission, writes very interestingly of the recent visit of Elders David O. McKay and Hugh J. Cannon to this mission. A general conference of the Relief Society was held in order that the Relief Society workers might have an opportunity to meet these elders and hear them speak. ElderMcKay delivered his address in the English language; it was interpreted to the Tongan Relief Society by a native, Louis F. Woofgramn, and was recorded in Tongan shorthand. It was later reproduced in Tongan longhand and from this it has been re-translated into English by Elder S. Ibey May. Elder McKay spoke on the subject of home making, outlining the duties and privileges of the father and the mother and the children. He spoke also on the Relief Society work throughout the world, and complimented the women of the Tongan Relief Society for their devotion tc the work and their energy in carrying it forward. He was very much delighted to find so many of the young girls and women interested, enrolled and active members in the organization. British Mission Mrs. Mary Wells Whitney, president of the Relief Societies of the British mission, has suggested to the presidents of the various conferences that a Relief Society be organized in every branch of the conferences. Following her recent visit to the New-  castle conference, President Osmond C. Crowther writes: "Sister Whitney will be pleased to know that her visit has resulted in much good. I shall be organizing two new Relief Societies next week, and a third in the near future, and the organizations we already have are doing much better. I think I can follow out her suggestions and have a Relief Society in every branch of the conference for her to visit next spring." Hawatian Mission At the Honolulu semi-annual conference of the Church, held October 7, 8, 9, 1921, one whole session was given to the Relief Society. Mrs. Mat Smith, president of the Relief Societies of the Hawaiian mission, was in charge and gave the introductory address. The other numbers on the program were as follows: instrumental selection, Minnie Napoleon; address, Care of Children, by Rebecca DeFries; duet, Abbie Smith, Martha Kuroda - piano selection, Frederika McGuire; address, Home Association President Minerva Fernandez; mothers' chorus, directed by Lydia Cummings; story, Mary Tyau. New Zealand Mission Following we give some extracts from a letter from Mrs. Ida Alleman Taylor, president of the Relief Societies of the New Zealand Mission: "A visit at home to a Relief Society is much easier made than is one in our scattered condition in New Zealand. In company with Elders McKay and Cannon, Prest. Kennard, of the Tahitian mission, and our mission president, I have just made a trip south, through the north Island, and -while the brethren were meeting with the Priesthood, I held Relief Society meetings at Porirua, Korongata, Nuhaka, Te Hapara, Tahoraite, Omahu, and Kopu, also the Europeans (Pakeha sisters) at Thames. In each of these societies one finds many of the Maori sisters who understand English and not a few who speak it freely. Six of the seven branches we visited have subscribed to the Relief Society Magazine. I carried a magazine with me containing the conference notes and they were very 'much interested in it and anxious to do what the organizations at home are doing. We are planning to take up a regular course of study in all our Maori associations, somewhat after the plans used in Zion, but will change them to conform to our' season of study. Our mission paper, (Maori) printed each fortnight, has given us permission to use its pages in gettine lesson outlines to our thirty organizations. Many lessons in charity and love are taught us by our Maori sisters. One branch which has no needy has offered to help any other which is