[Vol9 | February 1922 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: President Charles W. Penrose Susa Young Gates]

President Charles W. Penrose Susa Young Gates On the 4th. Of February 1922, the thought of this people will be turned in love and reverence to the poet-preacherpublicist who reaches then his ninetieth year milestone. Few men have lived so long, fewer still have lived so righteously and so well; while perhaps none have combined in themselves so many forces for good, filled so many responsible positions, walked in so many paths of usefulness. And distinction as has Charles W. Penrose. Other writers in the public press, at this time, will no doubt speak of him as author, orator, preacher of righteousness, editor, poet and president. This article, however, aims to deal with one side only of his many-sided career. In a large sense, he has been a constant and consistent friend of woman and women in this Church and in the world at large. It is of this that we would speak. He was an editor, when the effort, brief as it was, was on for the passage of the bill for equa! Suffrage in the Legislature of 1870. His trenchant pen accelerated the speed with which the movement was inaugurated and carried through, while he afterwards glorified the triumphant results for the women of Utah by word and pen. Perhaps his most signal contribution to the welfare of Utah women, however, was focussed in his bill, while a member of the Legislature of 1880 and a member of the Judiciary Committee, for removing the political disabilities of women. The territorial bill giving women the voting privilege in 1870, did not carry the right to hold office, as the following extracts will show. He it was who assisted in the drafting of the resolutions sent in by Eliza R. Snow, Sarah M. Kimball and Emmeline B. Wells; while his bill followed the women's appeal which he read prior to presenting his own bill. The following extract is taken from the Woman's Exponent, January 15, 1880: "Hon. C, W. Penrose presented a petition signed by Eliza R. Snow,  Sarah M. Kimball, Emmeline. B. Wells and fourteen others praying for the removal of the political disabilities of the women of Utah. To the Honorable Council and House of Representatives of. The Legislative Assembly of the Territory of Utah: Gentlemen—We, your petitioners, residents of Utah Territory, representing the great majority of the women, respectfully ask your Honorable Body to remove the political disabilities of the women citizens of this Territory. Whereas, For the past nine years the women of Utah have enjoyed and exercised the right of suffrage and through practical use of the elective franchise have become somewhat familiar with the needs and operations of government, and have not abused the trust reposed in them by the act of the Legislative Assembly of 1870, which conferred upon them the right of the ballot, and Whereas, In consequence of the continuance of the word "male" in those statutes which define the qualifications of citizens for holding office, women citizens are ineligible to hold office, and entirely debarred from occupying any official position whatever, however capable cr well qualified they may be, or however desirous the people may become to open the way for women to offices that they might fill with honor to themselves, and profit to the Territory; We therefore pray your Honorable Body to pass some enactment which will remove the obstacle that now prevents the political freedom of the women of this Territory. Your early attention, as wise legislators, to this matter which is of great importance to us, and to those whom we have the honor to tepresent, is carey requested, and as in duty bound Your petitioners will ever pray, etc. Signed in behalf of the WomMeEN oF UTAH Salt Lake City, Jan. 10,1880. Referred to the committee on Petitions and Memorials. The following Bill was presented by Mr. Penrose; read the first time and referred to the committee on Petitions and Memorials; A BILL REMOVING THE POLITICAL DISSABILITIES OF THE WOMEN OF UTAH Sec. 1—Be it enacted by the Governor and Legislative Assembly of the Territory of Utah: That section 40 of the Compiled Laws of Utah is hereby amended by striking out the word "male," in the seventh line of said section. Sec. 2,—Section 1073 of said Compiled Laws is hereby amended by striking out the word "male" in. The third line of said section. Sec. 3—All laws or parts of laws which disqualify any citizen from holding office on account of sex are hereby repealed. In the debate which followed in the House, Mr. Penrose made a telling and brilliant speech in favor of the bill, and we append it here: "Utah is the home of liberty for all, and peculiarly the sanctuary for woman. Here all her rights are popularly acknowledged and accorded; here she is protected and defended; here the conventionalities PRESIDENT CHARLES W.  which have kept her in bondage for. Ages are thrown aside by the force of an enlightened estimate of her capabilities, and an enlarged view of her claims as an integral part of the body politic. The right to vote has already been conferred upon her. The laws ef the nation declare her a citizen equally with man; the laws of this Territory give her equal rights with man at the polls. This has worked no injury to any, but will necessarily result in good. For the power of the suffrage will develop thought, 'and its responsibilities give occasion for reflection and enlarged capacities of woman which will be the natural consequence, will be transmitted to her offspring, and benefits will thus accrue to the State in the coming generation. None of the disasters predicted by the opponents of woman suffrage have occurred in this Territory. The women have exercised their power in wisdom, and have shown their fitness for the trust reposed in them. They have not been degraded or polluted by dabbling in the waters of politics, and are just as good wives, mothers, sisters, cousins and aunts as before receiving the elective franchise. Recently they have had some voice in our caucuses and conventions and nominating committees; and who can say, truthfully, that this has been in any way inimical to the community. Giving them the right to vote without the right to a voice in the arrangement of a ticket or platform on which to vote would be partial and inconsistent. Having done so much for woman's cause, why halt in timid hesitation before the last barrier to her political freedom. The word "male" in our statutes defining the qualifications of citizens for holding office, is a relic of the old system of woman's vasselage. It is a standing reflection upon her sex. It is a plain assertion of her inferiority. It says virtually, "No matter how wise, intellectual, honest, thrifty, able and gifted a woman may be, she is not fit to be entrusted with the responsibilities of the smallest office in the gift of the people." Tf this is not its meaning, then it is a selfish declaration that all the honors and emoluments of every office shall be preserved to the stronger sex, because man has the power to elbow woman out in the cold and keep her there. There are some offices for which women are not adapted. But are there not also some offices for which many men are not adapted? Yet no man, however inefficient, is debarred by statutory provisions from such positions. But woman is shut out from all, and this purely and solely because she is woman. It is not asked that certain offices be set apart for either sex. We are simply requested to remove this ugly and staring brand of woman's political inferiority from our statute book: to render it possible for women to fill such offices as they may be fitted' to occupy with honor to themselves and profit to the people. The good sense of the great body of electors of both sexes must determine what those offices may be, and, as in the case of men, which persons are the most competent to fill them. The bill will not secure a single office to a single woman—or a married one either. But it will break down in Utah a wall which is in the way of the march of progress, and every stone and brick of which will yet be entirely removed in every nation that is really civilized. Massachusetts and other States have commenced the work. Women there cannot only vote on school matters, but hold official positions on school boards and other state educational organizations. They have the same privilege in Kansas. In Utah, where the elevation of woman as man's companion, not his slave, is the prevailing social theory, she cannot, under the law, hold any office of any kind whatever. Cache county would have elected a lady to the office of County  Superintendent of Schools, one who had proven to the people her ample qualifications for the post, but the law forbade it. Salt Lake county contemplated nominating a talented lady for the office of County Treasurer, but the disability which this bill seeks to remove stood grimly in the way. _Now, I do not cite these as example offices to which women should be elected, but merely refer to these facts in illustration of the subject, and to show reasons why the discriminating and egotistical word "male" shoutd be expunged from the statutes relating to qualifications for office. Used in this connection, it is a slur on our wives and sisters and mothers. It is a vestige of the barbaric estimate of the gentler sex. Away with it. Blot it out with the. Pen of a progressive age and the ink of advanced ideas. Let it go with its companion that once stood in the way of woman suffrage, but was swept into the limbo of antiquated measures, by the besom of the act of 1870. Give-to the women of Utah—full, perfect and complete political liberty!"—Deseret News, Jan. 15, 1880. President Penrose's liberal attitude on this question did not meet with the ready response in the Legislature which it deserved, for there were men who confused the right to hold office with the necessity of doing so. That a woman should have her right of choice as to whether she ran for office or not did not appeal to some of the conservative minds of the Legislature, Elder Penrose's attacks on the citadel of the conservative-defense-ramparts with his rapierthrusts of wit, and his broadside of shots and shells of logic and reason almost created a riot. Practically alone he carried the siege and witnessed the crumbling of the walls with characteristic delight, willingly throwing down his arms when the foes of progress were defeated, striking hands with his one-time opponents, happy only in the success of his arms and of the right. He was a member of the next two Constitutional Conventions, held April, 1887, and June, 1894. When Congress decided to deprive polygamists of their right of franchise, both men and women, President Penrose by pen still championed equal suffrage whenever opportunity offered to advance the cause of women and womanhood. The passage of the first Edmunds law was effected in Congress in 1882. All the Utah women had exercised their free right ef franchise for twelve years unmolested. Then, in 1882. Came the disfranchisement of polygamists. Again in 1886 came the passage of the Edmunds-Tucker bill which disfranchised all the women of the territory by Congressional enactment. With the acceptance of the manifesto issued by President Wilford Woodruff, in 1891, amnesty was granted to living polygamists. Male polygamists were then permitted to vote, but the franchise was not at that time restored to women. The agitation for Statehood was renewed, fostered and focussed by such men as Honorable Charles W. Penrose, who in ' PRESIDENT CHARLES W.  company with Honorable Franklin S. Richards, spent two winters in Washington, D. C. He visited every Senator and Representative and member of Congress with the. President's cabinet on the subject of Statehood, including the equal suffrage clause. The women themselves were not asleep at their posts. Led by the stirring appeals and efforts of Zina D. H. Young. Sarah M. Kimball, Emmeline B. Wells and Emily S. Richards, M. Isabella Horne, Elmina S. Taylor, they projected a series of mass meetings and they traveled up and down the state from one end to the other for over a year—1894-1895, inquiring into the records of all possible candidates for the Constitutional Convention which was to convene in 1895. President Penrose was an active ally in all this agitation. At a convention held of the Utah Women Suffrage Association, Oct. 5, 1893, President, Penrose electrified the convention with his stirring and inspired address. The following brief extract is copied from the Woman's Exponent of January, 1894: _(Items from Hon. C. W. Penrose's address at the Convention of the Utah W. S. A. Held in Salt Lake City, Oct. 5, 1893.) "Hon. C. W. Penrose's address at W. S. Convention. The speaker dwelt upon necessity of organization, upon faith in the cause and confidence that it would succeed. He urged that the work of converting the indifferent and skeptical, and inspiring the lukewarm should go on, and said there is nothing new to offer in the way of argument, but advocates of the cause should study the objections of those opposed to the franchise and be able to answer - them. There are no arguments against Woman Suffrage, only objections which can be answered. From that time onward President Penrose lent his efforts liberally to the cause of equal suffrage which he maintained should and must be included in any state constitution where "Mormon" voters predominate. Moreover, he stressed the necessity of making the bill so broad that there should be no political disabilities for women when they and the state should finally triumph. No man was happier than he when statehood was achieved including an equal suffrage clause, although not a member of the Constitutional Convention held March 18, 1895, nor of the Legislature held during the winter of 1896, which drafted the clause giving women their full place side by side with their brothers politically. When the Statehood bill was signed by the President of the United States on April 6, 1896, Editor Penrose was one of the men who openly and secretly rejoiced in the final triumph of right. The story of President Penrose's life would be incomplete, 68 - RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE for. Women at least, unless there was told something of his extreme gentleness to the women of his household and everywhere. His courtly consideration of his family is excelled only by a genuineness of sympathy which covers mortal weakness with a robe of patient love. We have been studying something concerning the poetry written by President Penrose, some of which has entered into the very life-blood of the people of this Church, stimulating ambition, thwarting evil and inciting courage in the souls of those who have listened—by campfire, on the mountain top, at the fireside or in the gilded palaces where some of our great singers have carried his singing messages to the peuples of the world: His hymn "O ye mountains high," is the very soul and essence of the spirit of unconquerable faith and loyalty which animates this people. It is proper here to insert a correction concerning a mistake made in one of our recent numbers of the Magazine, as it is a matter of historical accuracy: Says President Penrose: It has been called to my attention, that a recent lesson in the Relief Society Magazine credits the poem and song written by me, "Up! Awake, ye defenders of Zion,' as the one which was sung by Brother Dunbar when President Young asked him to sing "Zion," before the United States Commissioners, in 1857, at the famous meeting in the old Council House. To the best of my knowledge, this is incorrect. "O, ye mountains high," was the song which was called, "Zion," and which was sung by Brother Dunbar; "Up! Awake ye defenders of Zion," was written about that time, but was not sung in Utah until a later date. Others of his hymns are no less famous and beloved; but it is as a writer of doctrinal tracts and vivid editorials that he is most endeared to the women converts of this Church, by the thousands, as well as to the young women who desire to learn the "why" and the "how" of gospel truths. For all of these things we are the debtors of President Charles W. Penrose and we lay this little tribute upon the altar of his understanding heart knowing how inadequate is our portrayal and how complete is his merit. May he yet live many years to bless and inspire the women of this people and of the world. Without suggestion from principals or teachers, the students of Oak Park high school, Chicago, have formed an organization prohibiting smoking by any student within two blocks of the school grounds. When young America once learns the truth about tobacco, there will be "weeping and wailing and gnashing of teeth" in the tobacco camp. ~