[Vol9 | February 1922 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons for April - Lesson II - Work and Business]
GUIDE  LESSONS  57 
LESSON  IV. 
Social  Service 
Fourth  Week  in  March. 
PHYSICAL    EFFICIENCY    AND    THE    HOME. 
According  to  the  ancient  Greeks,  the  body  is  the  outward 
symbol  of  health  and  beauty  of  the  soul.  The  mediaeval 
thinkers,  on  the  other  hand,  saw  in  the  body  only  sensuality. 
Man's  fleshly  nature  was  regarded  as  an  obstacle  which  hin- 
ders spiritual  development.  The  Latter-day  Sairits  view  the 
physical  body  of  man  somewhat  as  did  the  Greeks;  it  is  the 
sacred  tabernacle  of  the  spirit.  The  soul  of  man,  or  man  in 
his  perfect  state,  is  the  union  of  the  body  and  the  spirit.  The 
body  is  furthermore  the  means  through  which  the  spirit 
develops  its  powers.  Health,  vitality,  endurance,  are  essen- 
tial to  the  moral,  intellectual,  and  spiritual  development  of 
man,  as  well  as  basic  to  the  enjoyment  of  life.  Although  many 
who  have  been  handicapped  by  weak  physical  constitutions, 
have  attained  greatness,  many  more  have  failed  to  succeed 
because  of  poor  health.  And  it  is  reasonable  to  suppose  that 
those  of  poor  health  wfho  did  succeed  would  have  made  even 
greater  success  if  this  handicap  had  not  existed.  We  are  con- 
cerned here  not  so  much  with  the  general  problem  of  health 
as  we  are  with  the  question  of  health  in  relation  to  the  home. 
Two  questions  should  be  answered  in  this  and  the  following 
lesson:  (1)  how  does  the  question  of  health  affect  the  home? 
and  (2)  how  can  the  home  control  the  conditions  of  health? 
WHY  PARENTS   SHOULD   HAVE  GOOD   HEALTH. 
Without  question  there  is  no  responsibility  in  life  that 
draw^  more  heavily  upon  physical  vitality  than  that  of  home 
leadership.  The  great  majority  of  men  who  support  families 
in  our  communities  are  compelled  to  'devote  the  greater  part  of 
their  lives  to  hard  work.  The  average  man  during  a  period  of 
thirty  or  forty  years  will  have  some  members  of  his  family 
depending  directly  upon  his  earning  power.  Since  the  great 
majority  of  the  heads  of  families  are  men  whose  income 
depends  entirely  upon  their  labor,  it  follows  naturally  that 
when  their  strength  fails,  their  income  discontinues.  Nor  is 
the  demand  made  upon  the  physical  vitality  of  the  wife  and 
mother  less  severe  than  that  made  upon  the  husband  and 
father.  As  a  housewife  and  mother,  there  will  come  to  her 
life  few  vacations.    The  average  woman  works  early  and  late