[Vol9 | February 1922 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial Jealousy]

EDITORIAL 107 Jealousy is a very subtle and insidious poison. How may I know if I am jealous? First, I may examine myself and my motives; if I disagree with my neighbor, and if I express an opinion about him which would prevent him from achieving any certain success, or position, what is my motive? Am I more interested in the cause which would be helped or hindered through his service, or is there some hidden source of dislike in me toward him because he is my superior in worldly advantage, or in inherited or acquired gifts or the superior of some one dear to me? That. Soul-searching was a daily practice with the Puritans and Pilgrims. It is a daily practice with conscientious Latter-day Saints in any age. If my neighbor receives gifts, admiration or opportunity, how shall I greet him, and in what way shall I speak of the matter to my friends? If he is worthy of them all, or measurably so, is it not the part of honesty and candor to acknowledge it gracefully and cordially to him and to my associates? If for any reason I am truly convinced that he is unworthy of the accredited honor, or place, or success, I may be justified, if my motive is sincere, in a natural tendency to express that opinion frankly; for society has no protection, as a whole, against evil-minded persons except the opinions voiced in what we usually call "gossip." Newspapers are merely bureaus of exchange, for the gossip of the world, and no more stringent check can be placed upon the ordinary sneak or coward than vociferous critical public opinion. Gossip has reformed many people. It depends upon the motive and the truthfulness with which the gossip is uttered. If I am innocent of wrong-doing, the jealousy of my neighbor will hinder me but temporarily; but if I am sensitively organized, envious gossip will either stimulate me to more strenuous activity or finally crush out of my soul all ambition and even destroy health or life itself. The Lord will protect the innocent and guiltless sooner or later; but who is altogether guiltless and who is altogether innocent? Life and society are made up of extremely complex factors. St. John said that anyone who declared himself without sin deceived himself, and the truth was not in him. Christ was the only example of perfection who has lived upon this earth. We are told in the scriptures that God is a jealous God; yet that jealousy consists in a yearning desire that men shall not go after other gods, worshiping where darkness and evil set up false laws, false standards, pagan gods. In this way the leaders of our Church may well be jealous, lest we as individuals, or as a people, turn aside from truth and righteousness, debasing our minds with love of vain things and jealousy of those who possess more than we do. So also may parents and friends be jealous  of our welfare and rightly criticize us, at right times and to proper people. The motive and the cause justifies right jealousy.; Tonight you and I should search our hearts for any core of bitterness and jealousy which may root within us. If we find it we may dislodge it through faith, prayer and the love of Christ which is the love of our neighbor. We shall rejoice in this great year that is now come freshly to us in all the success and power which may come to our friends, our neighbors and to the people of God everywhere. NOTICE. There are still some vacancies in the March class for regular nurse students at the L. D.: S. Hospital. Any one interested in the three-year course beginning at that time will write at once to Superintendent of L. D. S. Hospital. NOTE Will the author of "Reforming Mother," and Mrs. Edith Anna Johnson, communicate with the editor of the Magazine immediately? BOOK NOTICES Jen of the Marshes—ty John Frederic Herbin—Devoid of laborious descriptions that so often render a novel tedious and make the book heavy upon the hands of the reader, Jen of the Marshes is one of the liveliest novels that have appeared in recent times. The action takes place in romantic Acadia where was enacted the tragedy of the deportation in 1755. But Jen of the Marshes is not a novel about those far-off days; it is thoroughly modern, and its plot shows that our present days can be as deeply interesting and romantic as the goed old days our great-grandfathers enjoyed. Once every few years there comes a book of poetry that marks the entrance of a new poet to the charmed circle of those whose work is likely to have a permanent place in the literature of our race. Such a book must have the beauty and the substance that is not of any particular generation, but of all time. Within its pages the true lover of literature of any age must be able to meet with his kindred on a common ground. A claim that a book is of these favored few should be made with care, and it is in no light spirit but with a sincere conviction that "The Beggar's Vision" is such a book that it is offered by its publishers, Cornhill Pub. Co., Boston, Mass.