[Vol9 | February 1922 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: Bubbles and Troubles Ruth Moench Bell]

Bubbles and Troubles By Ruth Moench Bell CHAPTER IIT (CONTINUED) Rhea happened in unexpectedly on the usual scene of turmoil which characterized the Collins home of late years. Hurry! Flurry! Worry! Raised voices, clenched fists, fur flying, characterized Ralph and Ruth. Baffled plans, thwarted ambitions, upset notions characterized the baby. Mrs. Collins, like a distracted mother hen, fluttered between the cook stove, the baby and the battle, always on, between Ralph and Ruth. "TI shall certainly go mad," the mother often repeated. "When you've all killed me off I hope you will be satisfied." Marjory, sensitive and over-wrought, alternated between an attempt to comfort her mother and an endeavor to reconcile the twins to each other and a usually successful effort to soothe the baby. Into this uproar stepped Rhea, trim, elegant, composed. She pitied her aunt's chagrin and Marjory's shame. Marjory was thinking to herself even while the greetings were going on; "Even if we are poor, we needn't be so common." "Mother's going to pack me off with her to the coast again," Rhea explained when she and Marjory were alone in Marjory's bed-room. "She tells daddy it's to give me a chance. But I am just the excuse, so I ran away from the confusion of teas and bridge luncheons, dinner dances and farewell calls and all the rest of the fuss and nonsense." "And dropped into greater confusion and less beautiful fuss and nonsense," Marjory blushed. Rhea caught her by the hands: "What's wrong with us, anyhow?" she asked. "Mother's always chasing bubbles." "And my mother is always distracted over troubles," Marjory added.: "Our home is just Jazz music,' Rhea laughed. "And ours is Jazz discords," Marjory supplemented. "Every day is like this. And at night mother is so tired and nervous we all have to rush to bed and then there is more quarreling. Mother does let me sit up till nine now that I am seventeen." "Papa sent me up because yours was an ideal home, Mugs, isn't that a joke? The simple life, homelike and quiet and contented! I could picture your mother all arrayed in violet and lavender, her hair in soft curls and waves, just a touch of powder to take  the shine off. Her feet prettily dressed, resting on a foot-stool. I could see your father on the: other side of the table reading his paper and glancing over at her once in a while because she looked so sweet and lovely. You and I at the piano. Ralph and Ruth asleen or playing on the floor. Toddles in bed, of course. It all seemed so inviting to me because we never have anything like that. There is always a rush to be off somewhere." "T wanted it, too," Marjory sighed. "But it never happens. That dream of a boudoir cap suggested it to me. I know ladies only wear them in the mornings or when they are ill. But this one was so pretty and made mamma seem so much younger that I wanted her to dress up for the evening siice she hasn't time before.", Sunday morning came with its usual uproar getting every one off to Sunday school. Stockings had to be mended. Clothes had to be brushed and sponged. Buttons had to be sewed on. Some articles of apparel were missing and only located after a nerve-racking search. It was just a little more chaotic than the week-day rush. Papa Collins glanced up from his paper and then finally delivered 'himself of his longest speech on record. "My mother had ten," he observed, "Saturday night all ten of us were bathed in a tub, mind you, no stationary tub attached to a tank of hot water, just a tea kettle, a tub, a boiler and a kitchen fire. We all went into 'clean under-wear. Each blacked his shoes trying to make them out-shine the others! Each brushed his clothes. I can see it all now. Ten chairs each; with a pair of shining shoes before it, a pair of clean, darned hose and clothes, even to necktie and ribbons suspended over the back of each chair. Sunday morning we all got into our clothes without confusion. Sunday all was peace and quiet. We felt its influence before we were out of bed. We had a word of prayer before breakfast. When Sunday-school was out we had a 'short walk. Then all helped with the simple meal. Mother and father had gone with us." Marjory tittered: "You must have looked like a small Sunday school of your own, ten of you." "Ten would be splendid," Rhea cried. "Any number rather than to be the only child." "Tt was impressive," the father continued. "And wonderful to be so favored as to take mother's or father's hand and talk over the stories and songs we had sung. After dinner father and mother read their Bible quietly in their own room. We children understood that we could play quiet games. Then we all took a long Sabbath walk and enjoyed the trees and the sky, the clouds, the birds, the brooks and grass and flowers."  "T suppose I am not the manager your mother was," Mrs. Collins replied bitterly. "I just can't get them ready and off, myself and the baby ready in time without being tired out for the day." "But you don't even get to afternoon meeting," her husband cried. "I can't get the dinner over and dress in time. And they have such long sermons at night." Mr. Colllins turned to his paper. He had made the same obesrvations many times and without avail. Marjory and Rhea followed Ralph and Ruth to Sunday school. "Do your papa and mamma go to church?' Marjory asked. "Papa says he is too weary from the business rush of the week to be shut up in church on Sunday. And mamma is too tired from the social whirl. And they don't like the authorities. I thought our bishop was the finest man on earth but papa and mamma don't seem to think so. In fact, they say all fhe leading church men have so many faults." "Papa and mamma don't seem to bother much about the church authorities. They are always 'having it in' for the profiteers," Marjory laughed with the frankness of seventeen. It was really a great joy to unburden themselves so. A few days later Rhea cut her visit short and left for home. She got as far as town with Marjory and then a sight met their eyes which they could never forget. A truck suddenly whizzed past them and drew up before the doctor's office. A man on the seat beside the driver, held in his arms a flaxen haired little girl whose head hung limply over his shoulder. Marjory clutched Rhea by the arm, "Ruth," she gasped: "A motor accident." A man hurried upstairs with his apparently lifeless burden. The truck driver jumped out of the car and ran around to the side and picked up from the floor of the car a small boy, also with flaxen hair and limp body. Rhea felt faint and caught at Marjory for support: "Ralph. Too," she cied. "They left home for some candy not ten minutes ago." They followed the little forms up stairs. "Tt was a motor accident," they heard the driver explain to the doctors. "They stepped out in the middle of the street, between two cars right in the path of a heavy truck which was backing." Rhea and Marjory tried to follow into the operating room. But the door was closed firmly in their faces.  "It is my little brother and sister," Marjory moaned. "Won't you find out if they are alive?" The office girl went out and then presently returned with the word that the little girl was alive and would recover, but the boy's case was very serious. Somehow the girls reached home and somehow the word was broken 'to the father and mother. Then the doctors followed with the two little forms still unconscious. As if it were some fearful tragedy happening to somebody else, Mrs. Collins looked on with frozen terror. Rhea had expected tears and perhaps hysteria. But her aunt showed only a deadly calm. She neither spoke nor sighed. "Pray, Aunt Edith! Pray! Pray! We must pray for them!' Rhea clasped her aunt's tense form and sobbed. One long shudder ran through the mother at the words: "T can't," she cried, and a low sob shook her frame. "I can't. I haven't prayed for so long I am ashamed to ask for help. So much to be grateful for and not a word of gratitude, only complaints and bitterness. I can't ask now." "Yes, yes, Auntie! Heavenly Father is not like that. He is good and kind and forgiving, like daddy. If I neglected for years to tell daddy that I loved him and never thanked him, and then I suddenly crept back for a favor; daddy would give it to me if it cost half his life. Daddy would be glad that I had come back to him at last. We must pray, Auntie." And Rhea pulled her aunt to her knees beside the bed. CHAPTER IV "Aunt Jane needs me,' Rhea wired home with the news of the accident. "May I stay until Ralph recovers?" Never even in her thoughts would Rhea admit the possibility that he might not get well again. It was Rhea who kept up the faltering faith in that household. It was Rhea who took up the work herself. She had always yearned to cook and manage a household. But at home there were maids to do everything and her mother insisted that she should not do their work and spoil them. This was her opportunity to prove that she had a real genius for the home. And she rejoiced in the chance to help the afflicted family. "You stay by Ralph," she would say to her aunt: or, "better take a walk now with Uncle. We'll take care of the children and do everything." Sometimes she urged her aunt to lie down and rest while she and Marjory took charge. In this way work was soon shifted onto their young shoulders.  And the necessity helped to make them capable managers. Baby must not cry; the noise disturbed the sufferers. A thousand ingenius ways they found of diverting him. Dishes must not be rattled. Ruth had reached the stage of jumping at sudden noises. They learned that dishes could be washed quietly. Loud, highpitched voices penetrated the sick-room. They reminded each other and cultivated gentler tones. "How smoothly everything is going, girls,' Aunt Edith commented gratefully when she came out to the scene of action "You are so quiet and orderly." Sunday came and with it definite answer to their prayers. The doctor assured them that undoubtedly now Ralph would entirely recover and be all right again. He was able to speak and recognize everyone. And Ruth was allowed to sit up for a few minutes at a time in his mother's arms. "Sing something," Ralph begged, when they told him it was Sunday. "What shall we sing, dear," the mother asked. "Do you know any Sunday school songs, Mama? They sang such a pretty one last Sunday. It was something about, 'Did you think to pray'?" Edith Collins caught her breath with a sob. These few days of anxiety had given her much time for reflection. "If I had only kept up with my meetings I would have kept the spirit and not neglected to pray. Such songs would have reminded me," she thought to herself. "Can't you sing it?" Ralph insisted. With tears of gratitude they gathered around the piano, "Could you spare papa and mamma to go to fast meeting this afternoon?" Mrs. Collins asked the group. "Oh, yes," they all cried. So it was arranged that Rhea and Marjory should go to Sunday school and joint meeting. And the mother and father go in the afternoon. One week before they had nothing for which to be grateful.. Now they had everything. One week before they had been wretchedly poor, which, interpreted, meant they could not afford luxuries. Now with big doctor bills to pay they were rich beyond compare. They had each other and had learned how precious each was to the other. One week before they had no time to go to church. Today with two sufferers to care for, they could manage easily. After church Mrs. Collins slipped into the violet negligee and all that went with it. She had allowed Marjory to curl her hair and arrange it in a newer and more becoming mode. Once she had made herself as beautiful as possible to please the man whom she hoped would and finally did become her hus-  band. Now she realized that she had four times the incentive to make herself beautiful. There were four admiring children as well as a husband who wished to adore her and be proud of her. "You look twenty years younger, mother," Marjory kissed her. The look of contentment and deep seated peace, peace of soul that little things could not easily disturb, the look that Rhea's papa had remembered, was on her face. "T don't believe I. Dare ever be unhappy or bitter again," she breathed to herself, as she saw the looks of love and admiration with which her family caressed her. "Ts it love, or prayer, or gratitude, that makes you so beautiful tonight, or is it those pretty clothes?" her husband asked. "All three; no, four," she said happily. "And you even have time to love us now, Mamma," Ruth smiled as she cuddled contentedly in her mother's arms. "T shall take time out of each day hereafter just to love you all, and be happy I have you," Mrs. Collins resolved. "You must remind mamma if I forget." Much was made clear to the mother that evening. She got acquainted with the souls of her two quarrelers, Ralph and Ruth, when she saw them so appreciative of beauty and music, so responsive to harmony of soul or surroundings, so easily disturbed by discords and the clash of confusion. "This is such a beautiful evening," Ralph sighed. "You shall have many of them, dear," Mrs. Collins promised. "I'm going to be a fairy god-mother tonight and promise that every good wish shall come true. But you must each help even a fairy god-mother. First I shall promise that every day shall be just as beautiful and peaceful and happy as today has been." 5 "Even wash-days," Ralph cried with delight. "Blessed boy, have they been a horror to you, too," the mother winced. "Beautiful wash-days would be a fine ideal for a mother to have. I shouldn't wonder if that could be the. Test of a woman's character and housekeeping. Beautiful wash-days! Yes, the fairy god-mother promises even that. I think she can see her way clear to grant it, too." "T don't believe I'd quarrel with Ruth any more if I had Bible stories every night and songs like this," Ralph concluded. "And I believe I. 'could be good natured on wash-days if I could clean up first, make house and myself tidy before we begin. And if we wouldn't hurry so much," Marjory observed thoughtfully. "Rach suggestion must be carried into effect. Tried out at least," the mother smiled. "They have all seemed good so far.  What is yours, Rhea? You have been so quiet tonight and you especially have shown your grandmother's talent for housekeeping." "T haven't any to make," Rhea cried. There was a suspicion of tears in her eyes. "I was just thinking that I'd like to stay here forever. No, I don't mean that exactly. But there is such a lovely) spirit here tonight. But if you do want me to make a suggestion, I believe that if we cottld begin each day with a prayer of love and gratitude and keep the sweet influence of prayer with us in every task it would be so easy to do right and be happy and contented." Marjory squeezed her hand lovingly. They had always envied Rhea. And it was plain to see tonight that she almost envied them and dreaded for some reason to leave them. If they could have known, she was wishing her papa and mamma could be so happy; and wondering what they had talked over, and wondering, with apprehension, what had come of it. "Well, there remains my suggestion, too," Papa Collins said humorously. "Nobody seems interested in mine." "T know what yours is," his wife pressed his hand affection. Ately. "You are wishing we would get ready for Sunday school on Saturday night? Well, the fairy god-mother must make good and promise that, also." "There's just one thing that spoils the evening," Marjory sighed as she and Rhea sat with arms entwined about each other, "Rhea is going home tomorrow. And even a fairy god-mother can't stop her." "Ts it true, Rhea?" They all questioned; for the little group had grown very dear to one another in the recent trouble. "Yes, I don't like to tell you. Mother is going to take me to California again as soon as I get home. And this is what I love. I hate the part of California she always takes me to, the smart set and all that. If it weren't for the beach and the grand old ocean I couldn't bear it. 'J never did care for party dresses and all the fuss of formal affairs. They seem so artificial and unnatural. This seems real." "You are like your father, Rhea," Aunt Edith cried lovingly. "He never did enjoy such things. And they were all the world to Ethel." "T wish I could trade places with you for just one year," Marjory said enviously. "Perhaps you wouldn't if you knew all that is before Rhea," Mrs. Collins surmised, for she felt that all was not well in the Leslie home. (To be continued )