“THE STORY OF MORMONISM.”
	Our people should not think that the facts
and incidents relating to the rise and spread
and growth of Mormonism have been ex-
hausted as yet in what has been published.
We have many writers who have put mat-
ter in concrete form, tracts, pamphlets and
books on this inexhaustible subject, but all
has not been told and there is room for
many more authors and writers to give from
their point of view, stories, poems, and pro-
found histories and short sketches, in fact
Mormonism so called is rich in higher
themes than the ordinary student of the sub-
ject is apt to imagine.
	The new book recently issued by Dr.
James E. Talmage will appeal to a class of
people outside of the Church, in a telling
manner, its simplicity of style, its richness
of language, its depth of religious sentiment,
the graphic manner of interesting the reader
make it altogether a charming narrative for
a pocket companion on a journey or for re-
laxation by the fireside at home.
	It is one of the books that will be read,
and let us hope studied. Perhaps there is
no other body of religious people that re-
quire such a variety of books and of all
kinds of entertainment (and we might add
amusement if we had the courage to say it)
as the Mormons. At any rate we commend
this book by Prof. Talmage to our youth and
to our people generally and to the outside
world. We would like to see it printed in
other languages and sent abroad. From our
standpoint it is high-class literature, and we
are very glad that a busy professional man
like Dr. Talmage has contributed this little
book to the libraries of the people.


[Column 1]
GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
	The conference of the General Relief So-
ciety was held in the Salt Lake Assembly
Hall in this City, April 1 and 2, 1910, com-
mencing Friday, April 1, at 2 p. m., Presi-
dent Bathsheba W. Smith presiding. There
was a large gathering of members and a few
brethren present. Conference opened with
congregational singing, Sister L. T. Ed-
ward musical director, leading; Sister Ed-
na Coray accompanist—“Guide us O, thou
great Jehovah.” Prayer, Sister Emma S.
Woodruff singing, “Though deep’ning,
trials” etc. President Bathsheba W. Smith’s
“Greeting” welcomed the audience in a few

[Column 2]
tender and gracious words; expressed her
great pleasure in meeting them, and would
like to take them all in her arms and bless
them, every one; she rejoiced to see so many
present, realized the good work they were do-
ing and hoped they would have a good time
while attending the conference.
	The response was made by Sister Margar-
et Romney, president of Ensign Stake Re-
lief Society, who was very much pleased to
respond, she always tried to do the best she
could, felt highly grateful to be present and
to meet our beloved President Bathsheba
W. Smith, felt to bless the name of our
Prophet who organized this great work, and
prayed that every gift of health and joy, and
every good thing she desired be given unto
our dear President, and her life prolonged as
long as she desired. Amen.
	Duet, “I will magnify thee, O God,” Liz-
zie Thomas Edward and Thomas E. Ash-
worth.
	Counselor Ida Smoot Dusenberry said:
“We should always have gratitude in our
hearts for the beautiful music, and I think
whenever I hear Sister Smith bear her test-
imony of the truth, how blest we are only to
think she is the only woman who was pres-
ent at that great organization of this soci-
ety.” The speaker referred to the lesson she
had given recently, in teaching her class in
the college about the Prophet, and the pic-
ture of the Father and Son appearing to the
Prophet had never come before her as at that
time; told how she had wished for a vision
when she stood on Angel Point in the Grand
Canyon of Colorado; referred to her mother
taking her out at night to see the stars and
moon, and saying to her when she inquired
why she did so, explaining they were the
only things in all the world her mother could
see the same time as she looked upon them.
Sister Dusenberry related a dream she had
that had taught her a beautiful lesson; then
she referred to some of the greatest poets,
alluded to Dante’s tragedy and Milton’s Par-
adise Lost, the greatest epic poem, and it
had been written late in life, thought many
great things were accomplished late in the
evening of life. Michael Angelo painted and
designed some of his greatest works late in
life, and what could be more beautiful and
grand than going on and on and on, to the
great eternity. The most beautiful example
was the life of our late President Winder.
Many beautiful things are done even after
eighty and sometimes ninety; the mother,
after she has reared the family and the
wrinkles have come and the silver hair, she
still goes on with loving service for those she
loves; we all have obstacles to overcome
and prayer will sometime be answered, it
will come eventually. She read a little poem
for trying hours, and said there isn’t much
room in the world for older people; one of-
ten hears this saying, and then I think, oh,
we and every man and every woman whose
hair has become grey, we need their experi-
ence, we need their example and their coun-
sel. She had once seen a grandfather play-
ing a game with his two little grandsons,
and she thought how beautiful for the old
man to be young like that. The most
beautiful things have been written, the most
beautiful things have been painted when the
heart was tender.” Sister Dusenberry closed
by reading one of Eugene Field’s beautiful
poems, and said “God bless you. Amen.”
	Big Horn, Emery, and Blackfoot Stakes
were called to report. President Juliette
Blackburn of Blackfoot Stake reported that
it was a new Stake, and the Board were new-
ly appointed but were united in their work,

[Column 3]
and gave some statistics, and made an ex-
cellent statement about saving grain, spoke
of the pleasure she felt in remembering the
General Board of the Relief Society in her
prayers, and all our good sisters.
	Master Bryan Jenson sang with much feel-
ing, “Joseph Smith’s First Prayer."
	Sister Alice Merrill Horne—Address.
	Anniversaries, The Eightieth and the Six-
ty-eighth.
	“I think I never stood before the Saints of
God without feeling that I had the faith and
prayers of the audience, but today I feel that
I must especially ask the sisters for their
faith, for I realize what a stupendous subject
I have, and many eloquent speakers have
spoken upon this subject before, however, I
want to say that I have felt strengthened by
the beautiful singing of this little boy. I
shall not attempt to deal largely with this
subject, the organization of the Church, and
the organization of the Relief Society, but
only to express a few thoughts that came to
me this morning. There is certainly nothing
more sacred to us today than the life of
Christ, given in the New Testament for a
pattern for our daily lives, but in order to
fulfil the prophecy of it, it was necessary for
Joseph Smith to come. There had been a
great falling away, and the world was in ut-
ter darkness. The earth was waiting for a
change.
	Sister Dusenberry has spoken beautifully
of old age, and I would speak to you of
youth. It seems to me that God has spok-
en to the earth through youth. I am re-
minded of how God came to Samuel and
spoke through him, then when the Lord
called Jesse to bring his sons before Him,
he refused the older ones, but selected Da-
vid the younger who was tending the herds
in the field, and David was the only man in
all Israel to go against the Philistines.
Where in all the earth would greater faith
be found than in this child. And so when
the Gospel was to be restored, it is not sur-
prising that He brought it through a youth.
	“The forests were God’s first temples,”
so the poet says, and Joseph sought the
Lord in a forest, and there he prayed and
prayed, and behold a light came o’er him
and he saw the Father and the Son and he
heard the voice of the Lord. He knew that
if he told this, people would doubt him, but
his people believed him, and knew that he
spake the truth. Three years later when
Moroni came he was more ready for him, 
and to receive the special messages that
came to him, and finally when the Book of
Mormon was completed he was then twenty-
four years old. The Melchizedek priesthood
had been given and everything was ready
for the organization of the Church. To all
of us there is nothing more beautiful than
the organization of this great faith into a
Church. Joseph Smith had the broadest
comprehension and understanding of woman
and when he organized the Relief Society he
fully appreciated the necessity and oppor-
tunity of women joining with the priesthood,
and he said he would make of them high
priestesses. I know there are many things
I meant to speak of that the Prophet taught
the Relief Society, one thing was to provide
work for the able bodied. While it is beau-
tiful to take care of the needy and infirm it is
also necessary to provide means of sustain-
ing life. I also think we ought to look after
the orphan or in some way as a committee,
we ought never to be satisfied until there is
no more grief and no more sorrow, perhaps
until Christ shall come again upon the
earth.


Some announcements were made and
singing “Do what is right,” etc, Confer-
ence adjourned until Saturday at 10 a. m.
Benediction was pronounced by President
Bathsheba W. Smith.
			E. B. WELLS, Sec. 
		A. W. CANNON, Sec. pro tem.


70
WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
[Column 1]
	Some announcements were made and
singing "Do what is right," etc, Confer-
ence adjourned until Saturday at 10 a.m.
Benediction was pronounced by President
Bathsheba W. Smith.
		E.B. Wells. Sec.
	A.W. Cannon, Sec. pro tem.

