GEMS FROM MARY JOHNSTON.
	I know women have, many of them, a sin-
uous, an indirect way of approaching and 
of obtaining the object or the end which
they desire. It is a grave fault—perhaps
their gravest. But,	*	*	*	*
who is responsible for it? Today, from half
the pulpits of the land, by the press, by 
whom not, woman is told, “Continue as you
are! Pursue the methods you were forced
to use when you were the cowering mate of
a savage half as strong again as you! Do
as you did when you were Elizabeth of
Hungary, and your lord demanded what you 
carried gathered in your apron. Say as you 
said then, “Roses,” although, in fact, it is
bread for the poor!  Do as you did when
you were Godiva of Coventry. Petition;
and however degrading a price your lord ex-
acts for the lifted tax, pay it! Beg; and if
refused, manoeuvre!” It is not improbable 
that the phrase which, in the next few years,
will become most distasteful to a naturally
self-respecting and straightforward woman
—and there are hundreds of thousands of
such—will be the phrase “indirect influence.”
	Man will remain the more dynamic, wom-
an the more static. He will discover, in-
vent, adorn, draw aside inch by inch the veil
from the face of knowledge, build the ship,
build the sea-wall, the lighthouse, the mu-
seum, and the temple. As with the birds, 
he has the richer song, the more brilliant
plumage. She will conserve the species;
she will instruct the youth of both sexes, and
to a large extent the reins of administration
will fall into her hands. One generation of
practical training, and as admistrator she
will be the equal of man; two generations,
and she will be his superior.
	Women make able sovereigns. The wis-
dom of Pericles was largely the wisdom of
Aspasia. Elizabeth of England will bal-
ance Charles the Fifth, Catherine the Sec-
ond balance Frederick the Great, Victoria
equal Franz Joseph. The list of great sov-
ereigns is long. The list of women who
have been the power behind the throne is
long; the list of able consorts and regents is
long, and the list of women who have influ-
enced the king’s ministers is long. Here is 
native ability, innate power; and, like mur-
der, it will out. There is really no reason to
suppose that in a democracy a woman would
not do well as a town-councilor, as a member
of the board of health, or even, at a pinch,
as a mayor. Maternal instinct is a curious
thing. It is something like nature in that it
can care, with a whole-souled intensity, for 
one little honey-bee winging its way toward
a clover blossom; and also, by a simple act
of expansion, for all the bees in the hive,
and all the clover in the field.


