outdo his neighbor, what a relief it is to
know that God still lives, and that some-


where among this hurrying mass there are a
few sweet spirits, who can retreat to seques-
tered spots and allow the genius of the
mind to play upon life’s harp and bring
forth music to the soul. No matter how
great the resources of the world may be,
her richest and most precious treasures will
ever be the work of gifted souls. Many
may build halls and palaces, but it is gen-
ius that adorns them. America is mourn-
ing now one of her most gifted sons—Mark
Twain—but he has left his country so rich a
legacy that though his soul has crossed the
bar, his name is emblazoned ever in the
book of fame. It has not, perhaps, ever
occurred before in the history of the world
that a man’s genius should be so marked in
the line of humor. The musicians, the
painters, the writers of greatest fame for
ages past, are those who have taken the
serious, the grand, the divine, the magnifi-
cent themes of heaven and earth for sub-
jects. Then what has Mark Twain done?
Why, he has made the world happy, he has
made the world laugh.
	The busy financier on the train to some
important gathering has forgotten all his
anxieties and sat in silent laughter, perusing
the pages of “Innocence Abroad” so lost in
the mirth of the folded leaves that the porter
has to recall him to his normal condition
when it is time to leave the train. The tired
laborer, after the evening meal, too tired to
sleep, refreshes his soul with a chapter from
“Roughing It,” and after a hearty laugh
has aided his digestion, lies down to pleas-
ant dreams. The helpless invalid in the
roller-chair sits in the park or on the beach
and forgets the pains and sufferings of the
body and chuckles over the discomfitures of
“An American Client,” while busy men re-
new their boyhood, and school boys make
laughter ring over the adventures of Tom
Sawyer and Huckelberry Finn. Women and
girls are stirred to their souls over the heroic
story of “Joan of Arc,” as told by Mark
Twain, and all through the many volumes
where mirth and humor reign, is such a
strain of true philosophy, and such a high
ideal of the lighter vein of life that one
loves the man who thus portrays and gives
to us the silver lining instead of the murky
clouds. One of the brightest stars in Amer-
ica’s constellation is Mark Twain, and when
we talk of monuments to great men let us
not forget the man who made the world to
laugh.
						A. W. C.


