WOMAN"S EXPONENT.

[Column 1]
stage to Wilmington, from there by rail to
Philadelphia. Here we were obliged to
wait a few days for money and then we went
on to the city of New York by stage, and
arrived Christmas, Eve. He visited some
of the Saints while I found a boarding-place
among strangers, for it was not known ex-
cept by a few of the Saints that the sealing
power was practiced. I found a boarding-
place and paid my expenses with sewing.
	After a short time I rented a house and
Mr. Pratt boarded with me. I commenced
dressmaking and knitting baby socks which
I sold by the dozen, earning from fifty cents
to a dollar a day nearly all the time I was
there, besides doing my housework.
	Mr. Pratt was called home to Nauvoo on
August 18, 1845. We traveled by the Erie
Canal and Lakes, journeying from Chicago
to Nauvoo by land. I went to Mr. Beaches
tavern to board while Mr. Pratt went to his
Home.
	After a while it was arranged for his wife,
Mary, and I to commence keeping house in
rooms above Mr. Pratt's store.
	The Temple was completed so far as to
give endowments therein. Some time in
December I received my endowments and
blessings therein and was again sealed over
the alter.
	On January 1st, 1846, I had a son born
who was named Nephi by his father.
	The persecution of the Saints became so
great that the authorities of the Church and
many of the Saints had to bid farewell to
their homes in Febraury. and we crossed
the Mississippi River about the 14th of the
month. It was extremely cold and my baby
only six weeks old. I had not recovered
my strength but a merciful Providence sus-
tained me, and by degrees I gained my strength.
	It was a terrible journey from Nauvoo to
the Missouri River. It stormed almost con-
tinuously, snow and rain, and the earth was
so soaked that the poor horses and cattle
could drag us but a few miles each day.
We reached the Missouri River in July, near
Council Bluffs and camped for several
weeks."
	Sister Belinda Pratt came to Utah in
1847 (immediately following the Pioneers).
She suffered all the trials, exposures and
privations incident to pioneer life.
	Mr. Pratt made his families comfortable
homes and started a good farm and orchard
which was a help to them long after he was
gone. Sister Belinda passed through
unspeakable grief of losing her husband by
assassination while he was on a mission in
1857. Left with a family of little children
unprovided for and unprotected, she strug-
gled through years of more than ordinary
hardships and privations. She was an edu-
cated, refined and gentle woman, full of
Sympathy, generosity and kindness.
	She taught school, made dresses, took
boarders. The struggle was a brave one.
She gave her children what education she
Could.
	When the Relief Society was called to-
gethcr, organized in wards in Salt Lake, she
was a teacher therein and maintained that
position until she moved to Fillmore in the
Autumn of 1870.
	While living in the Fourteenth Ward in
Salt Lake City she paid her tithing and fifty
cents in cash each month for a fast offering.
Bishop Hoagland asked her why she did it
and if she thought a poor widow should do
so. She reminded him of the widow's mite,

[Column 2]
and told him that she wanted the blessing
and approval of God.
	She was for years an active, intelligent
and persistent worker for the public good.
While she was President of Fillmore Ward
Relief Society there was a poor woman who
was aided by the Society. The woman was
a great gossip and talked a great deal.
Some of the ward Relief Society teachers
came to Sister Pratt with the report that the
woman had said quite bad things about the
Society and also about Sister Pratt, and
they did not think it right to help her any
more. Sister Pratt said: "You must not
let her suffer no matter how she talks, give
her what she needs and relieve her wants."
	She was the first Stake President of the
Relief Society of Millard County from its
organization until her removal to Salt Lake.
	She delighted in associating with her sis-
ters, on one occasion arriving at the door of
the room where a sewing meeting was con-
vened, pausing for a moment to listen to the
hum of voices from within, she said: "The
sound of their voices is like sweet music to
my ears."
	A phrenologist said of her: "She has a
man's ability for business and great execu
tive talent with a woman's love of the fine
And beautiful."
	It was a long time after leaving her home
before her relatives knew where she was.
They mourned her as dead. When they
learned that she was in Salt Lake they were
so ashamed and shocked to think that she
had joined "that low, degraded people," as
they styled them. They wrote to her if she
would leave that church and people and
come home that they would share all in the
world with her; if she did not she would see
the time that she would be hungry. She
replied that she had suffered hunger, having
nursed twins for several months without
bread, but that so strong was her testimony
that this is the true restored Gospel of Jesus
Christ, that she had never for one moment
been sorry for having cast her lot with the
Saints of God. Her sacrifice she counted
as nothing for the Gospel; and the hope
which she had in the eternal life, and eternal
family ties more than repaid her for all, she
felt to claim the fulfillment of the promise of
the Savior, and felt that it included women
as well as men:
	"There is no man that had left house or
brothers, or sisters, or father, or mother, or
wife, or children, or lands for my sake, and
the Gospel's but he shall receive an hundred
fold now in this time, houses and brethren,
and sisters and children and lands with per-
secutions, and in the world to come eternal
life."
	Her mother believing all the misrepresen-
tations and untruths of our enemies against
the Saints said of her: "Belinda has always
been my little white pet lamb, and now she
is the black sheep of the family."
	Some of her relatives distinguished them-
selves by their bravery and became officers
in the army; some were fine musicians and
composers of music, some were renowned
for their oratory and literature, some held
important positions in the government of
the United States. Not one received the
glad message of good tidings beside herself,
so she the despised of all her race bccame a
Savior to her father's household, spend much
of her hard earnings to gather genealogy,
did what work she could in the temples for
them and laid a fonndation for her children
to build upon.
				I. E. R.

[Column 3]
