SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.		-	-	APRIL, 1910.


[Column 1]
			A TRIBUTE.
	PRESIDENT JOHN R. WINDER.
	President Winder was not only a pioneer
because of coming early in the fifties to this
valley, but in many lines of business and
affairs in general, certainly one of the most
active, earnest and energetic men in the
Church. Sound in doctrine, and conscien-
tious in principle, fatherly to the young
men in the relations of advice and employ-
ment, all around enterprising and prudent
in whatever he advised or undertook to do,
and he engaged in many enterprises, and
carried them forward with signal success.
	So much has been written of him that it
seems only a repetition to add the little that
is now possible, yet we desire to give our
meed of praise, to a man who has done so
much to build up our commonwealth.
	He will be missed everywhere, in the
Church and in the state, his kindly face and
beaming countenance made one feel better
even to look upon him. Everybody loved
him and trusted him without guarantee, he
needed no passport for wherever he went
his manner and bearing insured confidence
and respect. He bore the stamp of one of
nature’s noblemen. Brother Winder really
lived the simple life, so much talked of and
written about in this our day. True to him-
self, true to his brethren, unflinching in his
integrity in the maintenance of justice and
equity.
	But President Winder has gone after
weeks of patient suffering, hovering as it
were between life and death, he passed
peacefully over to the “other side,” out of
our sight, and we shall see his pleasant
smile no more; until we too may be called
home, to join that innumerable company
who have gone before.
		“Beyond life’s toil and cares,
Its hopes and joys, its weariness and sorrow,
Its sleepless nights, its days of smiles and tears,
Will be an endless life unmarked by years,
		One bright unending morrow.
		Ear hath not heard that song
Of rapturous praise within that shining portal;
No heart of man hath dreamed what joys belong
To that redeemed and happy blood-washed throng,
		All glorious and immortal.”
	The eloquent tributes paid to the memory
of President Winder in the Salt Lake papers
and magazines attest the strength and
and beauty of his long life of vigor and use-
fulness in the work of the Lord in these last
days. He was permitted to receive all the
blessings and privileges pertaining to a ful-

[Column 2]
ness of the Priesthood and exaltation, and
how grateful his family should be that his
career in this probation has entitled them,
if they prove faithful, to a fulness of the
blessings vouchsafed to him. There is no
need to mourn, only to follow in his foot-
steps to reach the heights he has obtained.
The hymns he loved to have sung in the
Temple seem suited to him now no doubt,
“There is Sunshine” in his noble heart to-
day, he has met with his loved ones gone
before and “All is Well.”
	John Rex Winder was born in Biddenden
Kent, England, December 10, 1821. Died
in Salt Lake City, Utah, March 27, 1910.
	The funeral services of this remarkable
man were held in the Salt Lake Tabernacle
at 11 a. m., March 31, 1910. Loving and
eloquent tributes were given by those who
knew him best, and had been closely asso-
ciated with him, and every token of respect
and honor possible paid to him. At the
grave that glorious hymn “Rest, on the
Hillside Rest” was rendered by sweet voices
most touchingly tender.
	To the writer, the saddest and loneliest
one of all, bereft of his society and compan-
onship, is the young wife married to him
some years after he was left without a wife
in that lonely home; he made choice of
Miss Maria Burnham, and it really seemed
a love match, they were devotedly attached
to each other and she has been his constant,
companion, never leaving him for any other
society during the happy years of their
wedded life.
	Our sympathy goes out to this dear,
lonely wife bereft of his solicitude and com-
pany. 
	E’en if weary and broken-hsarted,
		With that which thou deemest loss:
	Although from thy dearest one parted,
		He will help thee bear thy cross;
	And if the ordeal seems cruel,
		Thy Father will make it right,
	And the brighter thy precious jewel
		Will shine in the realms of night.


[Column 1]
	LAND AND INHERITANCES.
	In this wonderful day of great progress in
many directions of activity and skill, it may
seem undesirable and at any rate common-
place to go back to the subject of farms,
homes and grainfields an occupation much
neglected and for some years at least rather
unpopular, with the masses. Conditions
have taken such rapid strides forward that
the tillers of the soil are only thought of as
plodders, and in a sense by the larger num-
ber counted out of society.
	The first commandment given to Adam
after he was cast out of the garden of Eden
was to till the ground (and men are not yet
restored to Eden), and those who really en-
joy life most are agriculturists, they are the
men who are truly the most independent,
and in the course of events according to the
wise, the prudent calculators, and far-seeing
thinkers it will become a positive, necessity
to get more out of the soil to sustain human
life.
	As a nation we are proud of our college
graduates, professors, scientists, mathema-
ticians, musicians, etc., and the many more
who come to the front ranks, but they must
all be fed, and the soil must yield an abun-
dance of the various products thereof, if the
growing millions are to have plenty to sus-
tain life.
	The western land is productive and with
all the facilities of the present day, imple-
ments and machinery far more than was

[Column 2]
ever known before, keeping up a small
farm would be the best investment a young
man could make. The agricultural re-
sources must be developed and farms main-
tained, otherwise all else fails, there must
be bread for the multitude. We cannot be
ignorant of this great fact, that underlies all
human life, whatever else we may do with-
out we must have bread, the staff of life it
is the dependence of all progress, of all
prosperity and of individual existence.
	Doubtless mothers are as much to blame
as fathers in this regard, children should be
taught early not only that all honest work
is honorable, but that tilling the land is up-
lifting in its very nature because it is nearest
to nature’s heart.
	Out-door life and employment tends to
health and longevity. The idea that every
one must own land and cultivate it, was
largely general in earlier times, and in the
18th century in the Eastern States, a man
or a family who were not land owners were
looked down upon.
	The writer recalls the fact that in her
childhood people who lived in rented houses
were not thought on a par with others, now
the tables are turned, so to speak, and living
in crowded apartments without breathing
room scarcely is the height of fashion. To
have and to hold in one’s own right a home
and land gives one an independent feeling
of satisfaction, that is buoyant to the spirit
and soul. The scriptnral saying to sit un-
der one’s own vine and fig tree is significant
strictly speaking.
	The counsel given and the principles in-
culcated and acted upon by Brigham Young
in the settlement of those valleys was cal-
culated to create happiness and a responsi-
bility praiseworthy and beneficial to human
character. That every family should have
a piece of ground, a city lot, sufficient for
building a suitable home and a garden spot
and orchard. This policy was carried out
for rome years, not only was this wise and
expedient but profitable as well, and the
city was beautiful and attractive, artistically
so in the best sense.
	The great authors and statesnen in the
past, many of them have been men who
were fond of out-door occupation, one may
say, for relaxation perhaps, but positively
enjoyed it; it is well known that Gladstone,
one of the greatest statesmen of England,
was noted for felling trees. We as a people
profess to believe in the gospel of work, and
in short it is taught in the Scriptures and the
Doctrine and Covenants, and therefore we
must believe in farms and inheritances and
in owning land; we all know how fre-
quently the Lord has spoken to His people
in different ages of the world upon the sub-
ject of inheritances. It is not possible in a
short article to go into details on this sub-
ject but to sound a warning note to mothers
in reference to teaching the children in the
home, that farming is the one occupation
and that in which men can really feel the most
independent, and that farmers are gentle-
men. It is easy to recall the counsel of
Brigham Young and others on this subject,
especially when the mines began to be
opened here in the West, and how he urged
the people to stay on their farms instead of
running after gold dust. One of the greatest
writers of the day says:
	“Trade and manufacture however profit-
able must yield to the cultivation of lands
in usefulness and dignity.”
	If we go back to first principles every-
thing depends upon the soil; history points
to agriculture, and its varied losses and sue-


cesses as a powerful element in the rise and
fall of nations. The main reliance of France
is its fertile fields and gardens producing
agricultural wealth. It has been calculated
that the vineyards of France are more than
equivalent to the gold and silver mines of
America.
	The food problem is fast becoming a seri-
ous question, and it is not only essential to
our people to store wheat, but to teach the
children of today the dignity of farming of
tilling the soil, and beginning with garden-
ing on a small scale when they are very
young.
	These are merely suggestions, and we do
most earnestly entreat our sisters in the Re-
lief Society to persevere in their efforts to
store grain, and take precious good care of
the little we can collect and add to it as
much as possible while the harvests are
plentiful, and urge the youth of Zion to
maintain the possessions of our people in
the land of Zion, for the homes of the
people are the intrinsic wealth of the land.


