R. S. REPORTS.
			OGDEN STAKE.
	The Relief Society of the Ogden stake of
Zion held its quarterly conference in the
Relief Society Hall at Ogden, Utah, April
21, 1910. The morning session convened
at 10 o’clock. Counselor Isabel Foulger
presided and conducted the exercises. The
roll call showed a goodly attendance of
stake and local officers and workers. After
the opening exercises, Treasurer Sarepta E.
Cowles gave a most excellent talk on “The
Children’s Sabbath” with a view of making
it a pleasant, and yet withal a holy day.
	A very spirited discussion followed, led by
Sister Nellie Becraft, and participated in by
both stake and local workers.
	Items of General Relief Soeiety Confer-
ence, by Sister Nellie Becraft, a solo “Char-
ity” by Sister Emily Maddock and a few
choice remarks by ex-president Mary J.
Maycock of Pleasant View ward occupied
the whole of the morning session.
	The congregation sang “Love at Home,’’
and the benediction was pronounced.
	During the period between meetings sim-
ple refreshments were served to all present,


by the Sixth Ward Association, and hand-
shaking and social time was indulged in.
	At 2 p. m. the conference was again called
together  After the usual opening exercises,
Sister Nellie Becraft gave a short talk on
‘‘The Significance of the Organization of the
Relief Society, its Purpose and its Aims.”
	Elder Samuel G. Dye of the High Coun-
cil spoke on “Inspiration and Social Evils”
showing the power the sisters of the Relief
Society might be in checking the evils that
are in our midst, by being united and sus-
taining and assisting the Betterment League
which has for its purpose the redemption of
our boys and girls. Prayed the Lord to
help us to sustain His authority on the earth
attend to all our duties, and especially of
attending our Sacrament meetings that we
might be strong spiritually.
	Solo, “Behold the King of Glory,” Sister
Elizabeth Hickenlooper.
	Dr. Joseph R. Morrell of the High Coun-
cil spoke on “Influence, and the Responsi-
bility of fathers and mothers in regard to
the teaching of their boys and girls the laws
pertaining to sex and social purity, and de-
manding the same standard of purity of
both sexes” We have been too prudish on
this subject and have failed in our duties to
our offspring. Trusted that we might think
on the things that have been touched upon
for they are of vital importance.
	Counselor Foulger felt that the teachings
given this day were very timely. With all
our opportunities what manner of women
ought we to be? les us see to it that we fail
not in our duties. Let us teach our chil-
dren the things they ought to learn from us
and let our own lives be quiet sermons every
day, remembering that character teaches
over our heads.
	After singing the “Doxology” the bene-
diction was pronounced by Sister Ruth B.
Evans.
	There was a large attendance and the
Spirit of the Lord was with us in rich abun-
dance.
		NELLIE BECRAFT, Secretary.


[handwritten at the top of the page] Mary A. White
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

