IN MEMORIAM.

Thy mother lives and once again
	Where there's no sorrow nor distress,
She'll meet her loved ones who remain
	In realms of endless happiness.	E. B. W.

	On March 3rd, 1910, Sister Mary E. Irvine
passed from this life after an illness of two years.
	She was born in Bradford, England, December
7th, 1851. Her parents were David and Jane
Rutherford. Their two children (John, who died
in young manhood, and Mary) were brought up
under a religious influence, their father being a
Methodist minister, and their mother also being
a strict Methodist. David Rutherford died in
1858.
	In her early girlhood it became clear to Sister
Irvine that the churches of they did not follow
the teachings of the Bible, and she questioned
her class teachers and the ministers about many
things, which they were not able to answer to her
satisfaction, and when she persisted in question-
ing, they concluded by telling her that the must
be a child of perdition, and not able to believe.
	At the age of seventeen she married John
Irvine, and they made their home in Newcastle-
upon-Tyne, her mother accompanying them. Mrs.
Irvine and her husband were agreed that, though
they both felt a strong desire for religion that
would satisfy them, they could not accept what
was offered in the Christian sects, and therefore
held themselves aloof.
	For a time spiritualism, then beginning to be
popular in England, claimed their attention, and
they, with a number of their friends, formed what
was called a circle. Interesting though their ex-
periences were in this connection, they fully re-
alized that they were far from being satisfied. In-
deed Sister Irvine often said afterwards that she
feared far more than she enjoyed, and certainly
found no peace in spiritualism, gladly leaving it
entirely alone just as soon as something better
was offered.
	In the year 1877 they learned that there were
Mormon Elders in Newcastle, and they went to
hear them preach. The first sermon, it might be
said, convinced them. for from that time they
were deeply interested in the truths of the Gospel,
and it was not long before they were baptized in-
to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
Brother Royal B. Young might be mentioned
here as one of the Elders most earnest in preach-
Ing the doctrines of the Church to them, and was
afterwards their lifelong friend. Sister Irvine's
mother was also converted, though she at first
declared she would leave the house if Mormon
Elders were allowed to enter it, so strong a hold
did Methodism still have upon her.
	Mr. Irvine had a good position at that time,
being able to maintain a nice home ad provide
many comforts for his family. The spirit of
gathering however strongly possessed them. Ob-
jections were raised to their emigrating by their
friends, among them the Elders from Zion, the
latter fearing that the changed conditions they
would meet in Utah might affect their faith. But
they could not be stayed, and it was not long af-
ter their baptism before they, with their five small
children, were journeying to Utah, arriving here
in the spring of 1879.
	The work of Relief Society and that of the
Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement soon claimed
the attention of Sister Irvine after her arrival in
Utah, and in both of these organizations she be-
came an active worker, holding several different
positions in each, from time to time, until the be-
ginning of her sickness, in March, 1907. She
visited many of the far off stakes of Zien in the
interest of both organizations.
	She loved the work of the Lord with all her
heart, and willingly engaged in it from the time
of her conversion, her interest never flagging.
She was especially gifted in nursing the sick and
in comforting the sorrowful, being able to cheer
with kind words and loving deeds, thus proving
a strong and faithful help in the Relief Society in
the true sense of the work. Many times she
arose from a bed of sickness herself to answer the
call of distress and give the help that was needed.
	In her Church work she became acquainted
with the many noble women who were likewise
engaged, and her association with these friends
brought sunshine into her life. It may be truly
said of her that she never lost a friend. The
young, the middle aged and the old, once know-
ing her, loved her with an enduring love. and
they it was who cheered her long sickness with
kindly visits, loving messages, and flowers at all
seasons of the year.
	But above and beyond all things else she was a
mother in the true sense of the word. Her pub-
lic duties never caused her to neglect her home.


