SUCCESSFUL SOCIALS.
	The Relief Society of the Dublin branch
(Irish conference) met on March 17, 1910,
at the home of Sister Jordan. The elders
laboring in Dublin, and Elder J. T. Wise
from the Newry branch, were present. Pres-
dent Minnie Parker presided and reported
the branch to be in good condition. This
society was organized in 1907 by Sister Ro-
mania B- Penrose.
	At six o’clock Thursday evening, March
17th, 1910, the Saints of the Dublin branch
(Irish conference) met at the meeting room
and enjoyed themselves in a social, celebrat-
ing the anniversary of the organization of
the society, and also St. Patrick’s Day. An
interesting program was rendered, some of
the friends of the Saints giving valuable as-
sistance.
	The Relief Society of the Liverpool branch
(Liverpool conference) gave a fine social on
the evening of March 17th, 1910, the anni-
versary of the organization of this great so-
ciety. A good program was rendered by lo-
cal talent, President Penrose acting as mas-
ter of ceremonies. A feature of the program
was the reading by Sister Penrose of extracts
from the speech delivered by the Prophet
Joseph on that memorable day, March I7th,
1842, when the society was brought into be-
ing, the first women’s society in the world.
	An excellent program was enjoyed by the
Saints of the Swinton branch (Manchester
conference), during the evening of March
19th. The object of the affair was two-fold,
partly for the benefit of the Relief Society
and partly to honor one of the members of
the society who will leave for America short-
ly. A nice work box was given the sister
who is leaving. Over £1 was collected to
aid the society.
	The social held in Forester’s Hall, Hull
(Hull conference), March 21st, 1910, was a
success. It is only fair to say those who
took part as well as those who worked for its
successful outcome, did so in a very credit-
able manner. The listeners are also worthy
mention as they were not few in number.
The program was of a high class. A small
charge was made for admission, which will
go to purchase hymn books for the Sunday
School.
	A fine box party was given under the au-
spices of the Belfast Relief Soeiety at 40
Donegal Street Chambers, Belfast, on Thurs-
day March 17th, 1910, celebrating the sixty-
eighth anniversary of the organization, of the
Relief Society. A lively and entertaining
program was rendered by the elders and
members of the branch. Lunches were pre-
pared by the sisters and arranged two in a
box and sold, the net proceeds going to the
Relief Society to aid them in their labor of
