MARGARET F. C. MORRISON.
	Sister Morrison’s maiden name was
Cruikshank, her parents were William
Cruikshank and Mary Farquhar Cruikshank
and she was born in Aberdeen, Scotland,
June 5, 1823, her parents were honest up-
right people in good circumstances and she
received a good common school education,
but being the eldest daughter of a large
family, she was needed at home to assist her
mother in domestic duties in which she
took an especial delight,and was trained in
the home to do everything well, Sister Mor-
rison says, “My dear mother used to say.
‘Maggie whatever you do, do it well, it will
not hurt you to have thorough knowledge
and understanding of what a housewife’s
duty is,’ and,” she adds, “my mother’s kind


[Column 1]
admonition and valuable instructions have
been the joy of my life, and have constantly
been a silent monitor to guide me along
life’s journey,”
	Miss Cruikshank was married December
22, 1843 to William Morrison in the Free
Presbyterian Kirk at Aberdeen by the Rev.
David Simpson, a minister of that church
of which she was a member. She speaks of
her husband as a young man of good repu-
tation who had many noble qualities of
head and heart, he also had received the
advantages of a classical education and was
a fine Latin scholar, and the young couple
began life’s journey together with youth,
health and much happiness and bright pros-
pects before them. In the spring of 1844
the husband received an appointment in
Her Majesty’s Dockyard, Shumess, Kent,
England, and they moved there and on
October 30 of that year a son was born to
them, he was named Arthur Bruce Morrison,
nothing transpired to mar the pleasure of
the home for about three years, then the
husband was taken very ill and in conse-
quence he applied for a removal which Her
Majesty granted immediately, and they re-
moved to Woolwich, where they lived for
some years.
	In the summer of 1848, Mrs. Morrison
made a visit to the home of her childhood,
Aberdeen, Scotland, the home gathering
was a joyful one, while the large company
of relatives were seated at dinner after the
arrival of Sister Morrison and the child, one
of the Aunts remarked “What a sweet boy
that is,” when most unexpectedly the reply
was made, “I’m not a boy. I’m a man,”
which naturally created a ripple of laughter,
he being the first grandchild in the family.
	About six weeks later another son was
born to Mrs. Morrison and named Andrew
Cruikshank Morrison, and soon the mother
began to think of returning home with her
two beautiful boys, and now came the first
trying ordeal. The eldest son was taken
with scarlet fever and died on his birthday
Oct. 31 1848, this was her first great sorrow.
It seemed the way was being opened for a
new era in their life history.
	In the month of November they heard
the Gospel preached by Elder Thomas
Bradshaw, and believing in the divine auth-
enticity of the work, and with a firm deter-
mination to serve God and keep His com-
mandments unitedly, they were baptized for
the remission of sins and had hands laid on
them for the reception of the Holy Ghost.
With the signs following this great event,
their aim was to gather to Zion and their
future course was shaped accordingly.
	To the writer such incidents in the lives
of our people are very interesting, and show
plainly the Lord’s dealings with those, whom
He has called to serve Him and do His
work in these latter days. Many circum-
stances transpired about this time in Mrs.
Morrison’s father’s family that had a direct
bearing upon their future welfare. Mrs.
Morrison’s father received an appointment
that caused him to break up his home in
Scotland and move to Dartmoor, Devon-
shire, England, and with his family he made
a new home there; in the meantime her sis-
ter Isabella married Mr. James Treston and
came to reside near the Morrisons in Wool-
wich; her death occurred in Feb. 1852, this
was a great sorrow, and about that time a
daughter was born to Mrs. Morrison, this
was her second daughter, both her beautiful
boys had died and she felt her sorrow was
more than she could endure, but the Lord
in his mercy and goodness gave her strength

[Column 2]
equal to her day, and she was able to meet
with fortiude every emergency. After this
the family commenced in good earnest to
prepare for the journey to America, the land
of their adoption. The time set was April,
1854, and accordingly all the arrangements
were made preparatory to leaving England.
	In the fall of 1853 her father came to make
a visit and take a last farewell, and he
thought perhaps he could prevail upon them
to change their views on religious matters;
but in this he found he was mistaken, fail-
ing in this he tried to get his daughter to
consent not to see her mother again, but she
would not at any price, and soon after he
returned home, Mrs Morrison with her two
little girls, and her motherless nephew, left
to pay her mother a visit in Devonshire, her
youngest brother was living in Aberdeen and
she visited them all and had a most delight-
ful time. Her mother would listen to the
Gospel reasoning and was greatly benefited
with the conversations. At last the hour
came when she must part with her beloved
mother and the parting was most painful,
she never saw her again, her father too shed
tears, something she had never witnessed
before in all her life. However he found
she had a will of her own, and could not be
persuaded from the right path even by him,
he confessed he was proud of her but could
not see things in the light that she did, yet
he admired her courage and her parents
both said their constant aspiration should
be for her future happiness and prosperity,
and if ever she was in need of help to call
on them and they would help her to the ex-
tent of their ability. Just before leaving
England Mrs. Morrison received a letter
frem her mother containing some very path-
etic verses, expressing her great love and
good wishes also entering into the deepest
emotions of the mother-heart in parting with
one dearer than life itself.
	Sister Morrison says in a sketch written
for reference, “I loved my mother with a
love unspeakable and hope she will be the
first to greet me with my husband and
“Tina” when my spirit leaves this earthly
body.” “Tina” was her youngest daughter
whose death she mourned deeply.
	The Morrisons sailed from Liverpool,
England, on the Germanieus, on the 6th of
April, 1854, the journey across the Atlantic
was long and tedious, eleven weeks from
date of starting before they reached New
Orleans, all were in good health, not one of
the family had been sea-sick, not an hour,
the next day the party sailed for St. Louis
and were two weeks on the Mississippi river,
when reaching their destination, the pass-
engers were not permitted to land, but the
boat was towed back to a small island near
by where they had to remain by order of
the authorities, and they had only been there
one day when the people began to take
sick and in one week’s time 80 persons died
of cholera. Sister Morrison had a severe
attack but through the mercy of God she
was restored to health, a petition was sent
to the authorities to allow the people to
leave that dreadful place, but in many cases
it was too late for disease laid hold of its
victims and many were doomed to an early
grave, and among the number were Sister
Morrison’s two darling girls and the orphaned
son of her sister, they all three lay side by
side in the Holy Ghost cemetery in St. Louis
Mo. Surely her sorrow was great, left
childless in a strange land broken down in
body, she says, “it seemed to her then as if
nothing could compensate for the loss she
had sustained,” yet the Lord was mindful

[Column 3]
of her and in January, 1855, a daughter was
born to the sorrowing parents, that brought
sunshine to their home once more, but they
were only permitted to enjoy her sweet com-
pany for a short period, in November of
the same year they were robbed of that little
blossom by death.
	It is very painful to contemplate
the sufferings of the Saints in those
early journeyings from distant homes, but
Sister Morrison’s experiences fitted her to
be an instrument in the hands of the Lord
to comfort and console many thousands dur-
ing her life-work.
	In the spring of 1856, Brother and Sister
Morrison again turned their faces Zionward.
			(To be Continued.)


