[Vol4 | November 1917 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial Our Thanksgiving Debts]

EDITORIAL . Motto  Charity Never Faileth  RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Susa Young Gates Business Manager Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. IV. NOVEMBER. 1017. No. 
 Once a year we set ourselves the task of Public being publicly grateful to our heavenly Thanksgiving. Father for his bounteous gifts of orchard and field. The Lord loves a grateful soul. Yet our gratitude is so often mixed with a feeling that we deserve all the good things we have, and then a few more, that the spoken thanks sound hollow and the Thanksgiving service rings a little untrue. Don't you know people who accept gifts What Is without a "thank you." and who look bored Gratitude? as they receive your generous offering? Carlyle says that "gratitude is a lively sense of favors to come." President Heber J. Grant tells of an old couple who had received yearly from him a Christmas box. One season some accident delayed the delivery of the box at Christmas time. Immediately there came a stinging letter of reproach and a wailing rebuke which proved the true spirit in which the gifts had been received. YYe are'ant to fancy that the world owes us a better living, that our husbands owe us more love and consideration, that friends owe us more social attention, that children owe us more gratitude, that the political party owes us a better position, that our country owes us protection, that the Church Loves us better official recognition. And so on down the lines of our grievance. What about our debt to all of these? What Our Debts. do we owe husbands for their tireless labors, their courageous championship of ourselves and our little ones? Our friends for their patience with our faults, their affection for our unworthy selves? What an enormous debt of gratitude do we not owe our children for the opportunities they have given us for spiritual growth, for earth-experiences and for the best of soul-culture? We owe much to our political leaders whose characters are assassinated, whose homes are sometimes wrecked, and whose friends are forever turned into foes because of the bitter warfare which strews all political arenas with the crucified hearts of leaders who possess the vital spark of human kindness and sympathy. What then can we say of our debt to our country, to the brave battalions of lusty young American soldiers? Our country whose flag protects us from every insult and injury from every other nation and foreign power? To our brave soldier boys who adventure death freely that we may walk safely and sleep securely at home? Above all, what profound obligations are ours towards that heavenly Parent who gave us breath and being, who permits the sun to shine upon us. and life to offer pain and pleasure as our divine development requires! Come, let us thank all these for unnumbered Be Thankful. favors and then when that is done, we may retire into the secret recesses of the soul and be grateful to ourselves that we have left undone some things and accomplished a few others. This, lest we become abased and disillusioned as our debts of love and gratitude to others weigh frown the balances and leave us altogether poor and shorn. Dear Savior, all we have is thine, make us grateful to thee and to all, in truth, and not alone in seeming.