The Divinity of Jesus Christ A few days ago a building collapsed in Salt Lake City, killing one or two persons and injuring several others. The collapse was due to taking a building from its side that had been its support. When preachers and teachers attack the divinity of Christ, they are doing the same thing to individuals and to a Christian civilization as is done to a building when we take away its support. The report of the Save-a-Life League, published in March, throws some light on the very distressing results that may, and frequently do follow a lack of religious teaching, or bad religious teaching. The League reports twelve thousand suicides in the United States during the year. The reasons imputed for the act are oft-times as appalling as the act itself. Among those who took their lives in the United States last year were seventy-nine millionaires. What strikes one with peculiar force is the trivial reasons given by some of these persons for taking their lives. One girl took her life because she was disappointed in her appearance after bobbing her hair; a man, because he was forced to quit playing golf; a girl left a note saying she was taking poison just to get a "new thrill"; and a young man killed himself for the "fun of it." "Others," says Doctor Warren, at the head of the league, "destroyed themselves because the Christian religion had not reached them." 
 Comparatively speaking, the Puritan had few of the material comforts of life. In some respects his life was gray and drab and austere, yet there was in his soul a faith in the living God, and an exaltation of spirit that could convert the most commonplace things of life into visions of glory as seen in the light of eternal promise. Today many people are deluged with comforts. Their lives are colorful and many-sided, and yet with the low estimate they place upon the value of life, all these things are to them as naught, and they take a chance at snuffing out their lives, virtually hoping that death is the end. A goodly number of people have felt a great deal of distress at what has been going on in Russia, since the fall of the monarchy. Many there were who hoped that out of the confusion would come a better and freer type of civilization than the Russian had hitherto known. Those who wished her well have had their sensibilities shocked beyond measure at the story coming to us of what the Soviet papers call "Russia's First Public Challenge to God." According to newspaper reports, "On January 7, the date of the Russian Christmas, effigies of Jesus, Moses, and Mohammed were carted about the streets of Russian cities by paraders, and then thrown on bon-fires while young men dressed as devils and clergymen danced around them." France tried in the eighteenth century to substitute the Goddess of Reason for religion, but she was glad later to relinquish such folly. It is safe to say that Russia will not succeed in her outrageous program. Neither will those persons succeed who regard themselves learned and broad-minded, and yet seek at every turn to destroy faith in the divinity of Christ and his mission. Such sowing of wind will surely result in the reaping of a whirlwind. Religion to the entities of the soul is like the light of the sun to the world. It would make little difference how much grandeur there is in this world, if it had to be enveloped in total darkness. Jt makes little difference what the material or mental possessions of life may be if it is robbed of spiritual hope. The tendency to do away with life under such conditions is sure to suggest itself to many persons. The best way to preserve life, as also the moral status of the world, is to give to the human soul that hope and succor which the religion of Christ so abundantly affords. Religion augments every interest of life. Those who preach Christ as the Author of Life and Light, as the Son of God, and the Redeemer of the world, are putting into life its greatest verity, EDITORIAL 317 are heightening all things worth while, and deepening the value of every worthy human interest. Those persons who rob the Christ of his divinity, and teach such a doctrine are putting a philosophy into the world that will be fruitful in the destruction of human life and finally in the downfall of civilization itself. It is greatly to the credit of the late Bishop Tuttle that his last written words are words that tell the story of the Risen Redeemer. To the Latter-day Saints there need be no darkness on this point, for in the spring of 1820, the Father and the Son appeared to the Boy-Prophet in the woods of New York, and the one, pointing to the other said, "This is my beloved Son. Hear him!" TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR JULY PATRIOTISM 1. July is the month that awakens more than ordinary feelings of patriotism. 2. Patriotism is defined as a most powerful impelling motive to action, and as a moral obligation. It embraces the thought of independence, liberty, duty; the desire to be, and to do what is right, fair, honorable, noble, true. RELIEF SOCIETY DELEGATES ATTEND CONVENTIONS Mrs. Jennie B. Knight, counselor to President Clarissa S. Williams, and Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary, left for a trip to the East and South Sunday, May 13. During their absence they will attend the National Conference of. Social Work and the board meeting of the National Council of Women, as delegates. Both of these gatherings will convene at Washington, D. C. After the sessions of the conventions Mrs. Knight and Mrs. Lyman will visit some of the Relief Societies in the Eastern States and Southern States missions. (, SALT LAKE CITY HEALTH SHOW A Health Show will be conducted from June 6 to June 10 inclusive in the Auditorium, in Salt Lake City. The hours of the show will be from 2 p. M. To 10 p. M. Daily. This exposition, which is sponsored by various health and social agencies, will bring to Salt Lake City the National Health Show Inc., the originators of the Health and Sanitation Expeditions, who will present their famous mechanical models and educational exhibits. State institutions will also arrange for dispYays at the exposition, with a view to bring to every adult and child a better understanding of the principles of health, Mrs.. Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary, and Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde, of the Relief Society board, are members of the Health Show committee. The executive committee consists of Dr. T. B. Beatty, State Commissioner of Health; Dr. W. Christopherson, Commissioner of Health, Salt Lake City; Dr. Heber J. Sears, University of Utah. —y (= {-— University ot Utah Summer School lst Term opens. June 6, closes July 18 2nd Term opens July 19, closes August 25 College courses are offered in the following subjects: English European History Mathematies American History Chemistry French Physics. Western History Geology Spanish Political Science Anatomy: Bacteriology German bane) Hygiene Sociology Sanitation Latin Philosophy Natural Science Art - Business Accounting Music Stenography Typewriting Public Speaking Automechanics Domestic Science Physical Education Domestic Art Educational Administration Elementary Education Secondary Education Psychology Graduate courses are offered in French, Spanish, English, Education, History, Political Science, Economics, Business, Sociology, Philosophy, Psychology, Physical Education, Hygiene, and Music. State Welfare Conference of Social Workers, June 25-29, under the leadership of Dr. Edward T. Devine of New York City. Frequent lectures by some of America's most eminent educators. Attractive program of recreational activities—dancing. Games, hikes, excursions.. Concerts and dramatics, '; _ Fees: One term, $14.00; two terms, $21.00, including student activity fee. APPLY FOR CATALOG ] 7, OUR BEST ARGUMENT In soliciting your patronage We serve hundreds of the most prominent housekeepers daily—could we offer a better or a more convincing testimonial? DICKINSON'S The Store Clean Choice Meats Fancy Groceries Squabs on short notice All sales fully guaranteed Quick Delivery Phone Hyland 60 680 East 2nd South Street L A. W. Wiscomb, Mgr. Grocery Dept. James Houston, Mgr. Meat Dept. S Mention Relief Society Magazine For Call Was. Home or 3223 Entertainanywhere ment —Complimented on being the most popular Ice Cieam served at The National Ice Ceam Convention—1922! PHOENIX SILK STOCKINGS "The Silk stocking that stands wear.' No. 365 Ladies' Black, white, brown, grey, otter............. Cccc-ccccseseececcceenes$1.25 No. 708 Ladies' Colors as above........... Ee eee 1.65 No. 368 Ladies' Full Fashioned. Colors as above............ Lceeecececceeceeeeereeeeeee 2.
 SEND US YOUR MAIL ORDERS.. OGDEN-UTAH KNITTING STORE 2357 Washington Ave. Ogden, Utah Mention Relief Society Magazine CENTURY PRINTING CO. 231-35 Edison Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. Catalogs, Color-Work, Programs, Publications, Commercial forms. Service is Our Motto. ' Our Phone, Was. 1801. Ward We deliver "200" is the new drink that everyone likes—made of pure Harris Milk, brought fresh from the farms 'daily, combined with delicious rice flavored chocolate. Give the children all the "400" they want—it's good for them! At soda fountains and grocery stores: DOE 1 ae 5c Delivered at your door every morning: Vo pat oonnn sees ee eee cence eee eee eee10c Lo quart ~.0000..2200.2222. E2eteeeeeeeee eects18c HARRIS BROS. DAIRY Milk, Cream -Dusfybytors Buttermilk, Mention Relief Society Magazine NOTARY PUBLIC <gnoerneE BUp by STENOGRAPHER we ag be Specifications Stencil making ao rl ecg =e a 9%, a tigraphing = epositions Bankruptcy Louetta © Brown. Legal Work Schedules SALT LAKE CITY Letters 214 Templeton Bldg. Phone Was. 5510 SPECIAL FEATURE WORK: Topics for Relief Society Annual Day and Relief Society Conferences All Up-To-Date Libraries Both Public and Private Contain Bound Volumes of the Relief Society Magazine Following are the bound volumes we have on hand: 5 vols. 1915, leather bound...............-.-