Responsibility of Relief Society Women President Joseph Fielding Smith Of the First Presidency [Address Delivered at the Officers Meeting of Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 1, 1969]

My dear sisters, here we are again at another conference and where the time has gone, I do not know. I see a few brethren in the audience, and I am sure that we welcome them at this gathering. You know I am a member of the Relief Society because I am one of their advisors, along with Brother Lee and Brother Romney, of the Council of the Twelve, so you will have to put up with me, but we are very happy to be a part of this great and glorious organization. You wonderful women are doing a marvelous work and are to be congratulated on the results, and all I ask is for you good sisters to be true and faithful and magnify your callings in this wonderful organization.

Now I think it would be proper for me to give some instructions taken from the Prophet Joseph Smith's writings because sometimes we forget what our duties are, so with the help of the Lord 4 and your faith and prayers, I shall give to you some of the instructions given by the Prophet Joseph Smith, and while I mention the Prophet, let me add that President McKay sends his love and blessings to you sisters and he appreciates the work that you are doing.

The Prophet Joseph Smith said: "... Some of our most intelligent, humane, philanthropic and respectable ladies [are members of this society] and we are well assured from a knowledge of those pure principles of benevolence that flow spontaneously from their humane and philanthropic bosoms, that with the resources they will have at command, they will fly to the relief of the stranger; and will pour oil and wine to the wounded heart of the distressed; they will dry up the tears of the orphan and make the widow's heart to rejoice. "Our women have always been signalized for their acts of benevolence and kindness.... We feel convinced that with their concentrated efforts the condition of the suffering poor, of the stranger and the fatherless will be ameliorated."

I am interested in this Society. As was the Prophet Joseph Smith, that its rules must be observed; that none should be received into it but those who are worthy and virtuous.

"There must be decision of character aside from sympathy. When instructed, we must obey that voice, observe the laws of the kingdom of God, that the blessings of heaven may rest down upon us. All must act in concert, or nothing can be done. It was better for individuals to magnify their respective callings, and wait patiently till God shall say to them, 'Come up higher.' "

The Prophet Joseph Smith spoke of delivering the keys of the priesthood to the Church, and said that the faithful members of the Relief Society should receive them in connection with their husbands, that the saints whose integrity had been tried and proved faithful might know how to ask the Lord for blessings and receive the answer.

President Heber J. Grant once said that his heart was full of gratitude to his Heavenly Father "for the faithfulness and devotion of the sisters of Relief Society who are doing and always have done so much for the comfort and encouragement of those less fortunate than themselves. May our Heavenly Father bless the mothers in Israel and all who are engaged in building up the kingdom of God on the earth. May the peace and blessings of heaven abide in your homes and be upon you and your loved ones now and forever."

The sisters should always "concentrate their faith and prayers for, and place confidence in their husbands, whom God has appointed for them to honor, and in those faithful men whom God has placed at the head of the Church to lead His people; that we should arm and sustain them with our prayers. "This is a charitable Society, and according to your natures; it is natural for females to have feelings of charity and benevolence. You are now placed in a situation in which you can act according to those sympathies which God has planted in your bosoms.

"If you live up to these principles, how great and glorious will be your reward in the celestial kingdom! If you live up to your privileges, the angels cannot be restrained from being your associates. Females, if they are pure and innocent, can come in the presence of God; for what is more pleasing to God than innocence? If we would come before God, we must keep ourselves pure, as He is pure.

"You need not be teasing your husbands because of their deeds, but let the weight of your innocence, kindness and affection be felt, which is more mighty than a millstone hung about the neck; not war, not jangle, not contradiction, or dispute, but meekness, love, purity—these are the things that should magnify you in the eyes of all good men. If this Society listen to the counsel of the Almighty, through the heads of the Church, they shall have power to command queens in their midst."

I would like to quote some poetry that I think fits many of us. It is entitled "Where Shall I Work Today?"

Master, where shall I work today?
My love flowed warm and free.
He pointed out a tiny spot
And said, tend that for me.

I answered quickly, oh no, not there,
Not any one could see.
No matter how well my work was done;
Not that little spot for me.

When he spoke he was not stern,
But he answered me tenderly:
Little one, search that heart of thine;
Are you working for them or for me?

Nazareth was just a little place
And so was Galilee.
I am sure we all could take this to heart and do better in our work and not try to be aspiring but be humble in all we undertake to do.

I think I have quoted this before:
"Let this Society teach women how to behave towards their husbands, to treat them with mildness and affection. When a man is borne down with trouble, when he is perplexed with care and difficulty, if he can meet a smile instead of an argument or a murmur—if he can meet with mildness, it will calm down his soul and soothe his feelings; when the mind is going to despair, it needs a solace of affection and kindness....

"When you go home, never give a cross or unkind word to your husbands, but let kindness, charity and love crown your works henceforward; don't envy the finery and fleeting show of sinners, for they are in a miserable situation; but as far as you can, have mercy on them, for in a short time God will destroy them if they will not: repent...."

"Who are better qualified to administer than our faithful and zealous sisters, whose hearts are full of faith, tenderness, sympathy, and compassion." I hope and pray that I have given you something today that will strengthen your testimonies and help you to go through life, and to realize the importance of your callings in this great organization. And may the Lord bless you, good sisters, and magnify you, and I leave my blessings with you, in the name of Jesus Christ, our Redeemer. Amen.