Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family
Lesson 6—The Power of Work and the Use of Leisure
Dr. Bruce B. Clark
Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volume 5 Community Responsibility, Section Six By Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas

"All true work is sacred; in all true work, were it but true hand-labor, there is something of divineness.'" —Thomas Carlyle
"Without leisure we must live above the surface of things; leisure brings penetration.''—Manly Hall

Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, 
Southern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, 

OBJECTIVE: To show that both work and leisure can contribute to improvement when balanced wisely.

ART "La Grande Jatte" by Georges Seurat (1859-1891) French ( , p. 687.)
Commentary on art selection by Floyd E. Breinholt, Chairman, Department of Art, Brigham Young University.

When families are united in their work and play, work becomes more meaningful and leisure more enjoyable. A casual observer might say that this painting "La Grande Jatte" by Georges Seurat illustrates a popular leisure-time activity—strolling in the park. However, as one looks and reflects, he may find that there is much more to it than that.

The reality of the subject has been subjected to stringent refining—not necessarily to improve it—but in order to yield its essence. The unessentials have been dropped away leaving only images of incisive clarity. A heat haze blurs the detail and gives a static quality. One feels as if he had captured a moment suspended in time, in which order reigns.

Georges Seurat lived at the time Impressionism was at its height. However, he believed that this system of painting was too haphazard, so he developed a systematic method of painting, which was highly intellectual, methodical, and almost scientific in approach. He carefully organized the space on his canvas by using horizontal, vertical, and diagonal lines in perfect balance. Then with careful, almost artificial, precision, he placed the confetti-like, round spots of color next to each other, until his canvas was covered in such a way that the colors, being mixed in the eye of the observer, give a sensation of shimmering vibrancy. He called his method Divisionism. Others have called it Pointillism.

This painting was first shown in 1886, and it marked the painter's arrival at a maturity in the use of the method he invented. His departure from the established way of painting, and from the Impressionism of his time, opened the way for later, so-called "Modern" art.

Seurat must have worked hard to accomplish what he did at such an early age. (He died at the age of 32.) And, as is the case with many highly creative people, he found his recreation in his work. He said, "Art is harmony—harmony comes from placing, side-by-side, contrasting elements and similar elements in tone, in color, and in line." INTRODUCTORY COMMENTS

As the preceding quotations and objective make clear, the main point of this lesson is that there should be a happy balance in our lives between work and leisure—perhaps a good deal more work than leisure, but also some time for the rewards that leisure can bring.

That there are abundant values in a lifetime of dedication to honest, constructive work should be self-evident to all thinking people. Yet a woman would be wrong if she allowed her life to become so submerged in work and work only that all recreational, aesthetic, and spiritual things were crowded out. Again the need is for a healthy balance. In harmony with this ideal, the selections covered by this lesson are all concerned in one way or another with work and leisure. Some emphasize the values of work and some the rewards of leisure. Some suggest the balance that is needed between work and leisure and some the consequences when there is lack of balance.

Out of the Scotch peasantry came Thomas Carlyle (1795-1881) warning the world, like a Biblical prophet, against the evils of materialism, idleness, and all things superficial. Although his writing is rough and even clumsy he was a courageous, independent thinker concerned above all with human values; and, however, clumsy his style, he forces us by vividness of phrase and power of idea to listen to his thoughts. His influence has been felt world-wide, with such men as Emerson and Thoreau acknowledging their indebtedness to him.

As a young man Carlyle went through a profound spiritual crisis but found his spiritual footing and thereafter in volume after volume of essays was a vigorous prophet, preaching the gospel of work, the worship of heroes, the sacredness of life, the glory of God, and the evil of too much worldliness. He is often opinionated and chaotic in both ideas and style but he is always forceful—this boisterous, explosive, sincere man of faith.

Following are some brief excerpts from the writings of Carlyle, who made the strongest statements we know in literature on the values and nobility of work. The excerpts are from two of his most famous volumes, Past and Present and Sartor Resartus. Readers will find them a bit clumsy and hard to read but with great power and even eloquence in their awkwardness:

All work, even cotton-spinning, is noble; work is alone noble: be that here said and asserted once more. And in like manner, too, all dignity is painful; a life of ease is not for any man, nor for any god. The only happiness a brave man ever troubled himself with asking much about was, happiness enough to get his work done. Not "I can't eat!" but "I can't work!" that was the burden of all wise complaining among men. It is, after all, the one unhappiness of a man. That he cannot work; that he cannot get his destiny as a man fulfilled. Behold, the day is passing swiftly over, our life is passing swiftly over; and the night cometh, wherein no man can work. The night once come, our happiness, our unhappiness— it is all abolished; vanished, clean gone; a thing that has been. But our work, behold that is not abolished, that has not vanished: our work, behold, it remains, or the want of it remains; and that is now the sole question with us for evermore. For there is a perennial nobleness, and even sacredness, in Work.

Were he never so benighted, forgetful of his high calling, there is always hope in a man that actually and earnestly works; in Idleness alone is there perpetual despair.

The latest Gospel in this world is, Know thy work and do it... Know what thou canst work at; and work at it, like a Hercules! That will be thy better plan. Blessed is he who has found his work; let him ask no other blessedness. He has a work, a life-purpose; he has found it, and will follow it!

Labour is Life: from the inmost heart of the Worker rises his god-given Force, the sacred Celestial Life-essence breathed into him by Almighty God; from his inmost heart awakens him to all nobleness—to all knowledge, "self-knowledge" and much else, so soon as Work fitly begins.... Work is of a religious nature: work is of a brave nature; which it is the aim of all religion to be.

Older than all preached Gospels was this unpreached, inarticulate, but ineradicable, forever-enduring Gospel: Work, and therein have wellbeing. The thistle that grows in thy path, dig it out, that a blade of useful grass, a drop of nourishing milk, may grow there instead.

All true Work is sacred; in all true Work, were it but true hand-labour, there is something of divineness.... Who art thou that complainest of thy life of toil? Complain not. Look up, my wearied brother; see thy fellow Workmen there, in God's Eternity; surviving there, they alone surviving: sacred Band of the Immortals, celestial Bodyguard of the Empire of Mankind.

And who art thou that braggest of thy life of Idleness; complacently showest thy bright gilt equipages; sumptuous cushions; appliances for folding of the hands to mere sleep?...

One monster there is in the world: the idle man. As to the Wages of Work there might innumerable things be said.... One thing only I will say here.... The "wages" of every noble Work do yet lie in Heaven or else Nowhere. Not in Bank-of-England bills.

Two men I honor, and no third. First, the toilworn Craftsman that with earthmade Implement laboriously conquers the earth, and makes her man's. Venerable to me is the hard Hand; crooked, course. Venerable too is the rugged face, all weather-tanned, besoiled, with its rude intelligence, for it is the face of a Man living manlike.

A second man I honor, and still more highly: Him who is seen toiling for the spiritually indispensable; not daily bread, but the bread of Life.... If the poor and humble toil that we have Food, must not the high and glorious toil for him in return, that he have Light, have Guidance, Freedom, Immortality? These two, in all their degrees, I honor—all else is chaff and dust, which let the wind blow whither it listeth.

Unspeakably touching is it, however, when I find both dignities united; and he that must toil outwardly for the lowest of man's wants, is also toiling inwardly for the highest. Such a one will take thee back to Nazareth itself; thou wilt see the splendor of Heaven spring forth from the humblest depths of Earth, like a light shining in great darkness.

Most issues have two sides. Carlyle has made a powerful case for the values of work. Something also, however, can be said for the values of leisure. Some excerpts from Lin Yutang's essay "The Importance of Loafing" follow to develop this second point of view.

Lin Yutang (1895- ) can be called genuinely a citizen of the world. Born in China, he received his early education in Shanghai, then studied at Harvard and several German universities. Returning to China, he became a professor of English at Peking but later fled mainland China when the Communists took over.

Since then he has become recognized throughout the world not only as a fluent spokesman for free China but also as a prominent writer in English, especially in his essays. Among his important publications are My Country and My People, The Importance of Living, A Leaf in the Storm, and Between Tears and Laughter. While studying this lesson on work and leisure, readers will undoubtedly want to contrast the views of Carlyle and Lin Yutang. Surely no one has talked more glowingly of the nobility of work than Carlyle, who even went so far as to call the idle man a monster. At the other extreme, Lin Yutang eloquently defends "the importance of loafing." Before we conclude that the two are completely contradictory, however, we should read carefully what each says. For Carlyle, "all true work is religion" and "all true work is sacred"—but note the emphasis on the word true in each statement. For Lin Yutang, "the man who is wisely idle is the most cultured man"—but again note the emphasis on the word wisely. These qualifying words make a great difference in what each man is saying and indicate that both are aware of the preciousness of time, whether spent in work or in leisure. Culture, as I understand it, is essentially a product of leisure. The art of culture is therefore essentially the art of loafing. From the Chinese point of view, the man who is wisely idle is the most cultured man. For there seems to be a philosophic contradiction between being busy and being wise. Those who are wise won't be busy, and those who are too busy can't be wise. The wisest man is therefore he who loafs most gracefully. Here I shall try to explain, not the technique and varieties of loafing as practised in China, but rather the philosophy which nourishes this divine desire for loafing in China and gives rise to that carefree, idle, happy lesson department go-lucky—and often poetic—temperament in the Chinese scholars, and to a lesser extent, in the Chinese people in general. How did that Chinese temperament—that distrust of achievement and success and that intense love of living as such—arise? In the first place, the Chinese theory of leisure, as expressed by a comparatively unknown author of the eighteenth century, Shu Paihsiang, who happily achieved oblivion, is as follows: time is useful because it is not being used. "Leisure in time is like unoccupied floor space in a room." Every working girl who rents a small room where every inch of space is fully utilized feels highly uncomfortable because she has no room to move about, and the moment she gets a raise in salary, she moves into a bigger room where there is a little more unused floor space, besides those strictly useful spaces occupied by her single bed, her dressing table and her two-burner gas range. It is that unoccupied space which makes a room habitable, as it is our leisure hours which make life endurable. I understand there is a rich woman living on Park Avenue, who bought up a neighboring lot to prevent anybody from erecting a skyscraper next to her house. She is paying a big sum of money in order to have space fully and perfectly made useless, and it seems to me she never spent her money more wisely. Figuratively speaking, we, too, are so cramped in our life that we cannot enjoy a free perspective of the beauties of our spiritual life. We lack spiritual frontage.... To the Chinese, therefore, with the fine philosophy that "Nothing matters to a man who says nothing matters," Americans offer a strange contrast. Is life really worth all the bother, to the extent of making our soul a slave to the body? The high spirituality of the philosophy of loafing forbids it. The three great American vices seem to be efficiency, punctuality and the desire for achievement and success. They are the things that make the Americans so unhappy and so nervous. They steal from them their inalienable right of loafing and cheat them of many a good, idle and beautiful afternoon. One must start out with a belief that there are no catastrophes in this world, and that besides the noble art of getting things done, there is a nobler art of leaving things undone. On the whole, if one answers letters promptly, the result is about as good or as bad as if he had never answered them at all. After all, nothing happens, and while one may have missed a few good appointments, one may have also avoided a few unpleasant ones. Our quarrel is not that efficiency gets things done and very well done, too. I always rely on American water-taps, rather than on those made in China, because American water-taps do not leak. That is a consolation. Against the old contention, however, that we must all be useful, be efficient, become officials and have power, the old reply is that there are always enough fools left in the world who are willing to be useful, be busy and enjoy power, and so somehow the business of life can and will be carried on. The only point is who are the wise, the loafers or the hustlers? Our quarrel with efficiency is not that it gets things done, but that it is a thief of time when it leaves us no leisure to enjoy ourselves and that it frays our nerves in trying to get things done perfectly. American engineers in building bridges calculate so finely and exactly as to make the two ends come together within one-tenth of an inch. But when two Chinese begin to dig a tunnel from both sides of a mountain, both come out on the other side. The Chinese's firm conviction is that it doesn't matter so long as a tunnel is dug through, and if we have two instead of one, why, we have a double track to boot—The tempo of modern industrial life forbids this kind of glorious and magnificent idling. But worse than that, it imposes upon us a different conception of time as measured by the clock, and eventually turns the human being into a clock himself.... This is what makes life so hard and hectic.... And Americans have now come to such a sad state that they are booked up not only for the following day, or the following week, but even for the following month. An appointment three weeks ahead of time is a thing unknown in China. And when a Chinese receives an invitation card, happily he never has to say whether he is going to be present or not. He can put down on the invitation list "coming" if he accepts, or "thanks" if he declines.