[WomansExponent | Vol20 | 1891 | July | Issue: 1 | Title: PRIMARY FAIR, SOCIAL HALL. | Author: Unknown]

PRIMARY FAIR, SOCIAL HALL.
	The Primary Fair of this Stake was held
in the Social Hall June 18, 19, and 20th,
under the direction of Ellen C. Clawson and
her Counselors. Several of the wards were
unrepresented, but of the Associations that
were represented there was a very good show-
ing of work. It was utterly impossible to
observe all the nice things even, but among
those that we did notice were of boy’s work,
Johnie H Boberg, Draper 9 years old,ladder,
rake and boot jack, Willie Turner South
Cotton Wood 13 years old, a puzzle rattle
cut in wood, also Geo. C. Brown, of the same
place, ladder and rake. Earl Cummings 13th
Ward this City, 3 brackets, Josiah Midgley 7th
Ward,13, tin bucket, Charlie Spencer 7 years
old, crochet covered ball, Stanley Partridge


[Column 1]

aged 15 years, doll settee and chairs cut wood-
work; Charles Madson 4th Ward, 13 years
old, small lounge made and upholstered; stone
work carving of letters, by Eddie aged 11 and
Elias Ashton aged 10, 15th Ward, Ray Jacobs
17th Ward 10 years old, paper weight and
penholders cut from cigar box and gilded very
tasteful; hearth rugs and woolen patchwork
by Ralph Grames 3rd Ward, aged 9 years,
bedstead for doll, Geo. J. Fox 14th Ward aged
13, a very complete miniature pile driver by
Johnie Bowers 7th Ward, he also melted the
lead and shaped it. Brackets and scroll work
Walter Wallace 7th Ward, 13 years old, Ray
Williams Mill Creek, double harrow 12 years
old, Forestdale in miniature by Alma
Bullock of the 16th Ward, 10 years old was
the most attractive piece of work made by any
of the little boys. It was perfect in ap-
pearance though very small, streets laid out,
shade trees, houses exact even to the sign and
advertising, the proportions were all good it
was made principally of pasteboard and painted
in imitation of Forestdale itself. It was quite
a novel idea. Lee Richards of the 20th ward
had a very handsome satin banner on exhibi-
tion, ornamental painting and letter-
ing, certainly very creditably done and
artistically finished off for a little boy. showing
considerable talent in this direction.
	The work of the little girls was in very
great variety and it is impossible to more than
give a passing notice to a few of the most
uoticable. One quite attractive little thing
was a large bunch of paper snowballs hanging
pendant so true to nature that several of the
visitors thought that they were real, these
were made by Chloe Hunter aged 9 years,
water lilies in waxwork, Annie Gundson aged
12 years, Ardelle Cummings aged 12, had
several specimens of drawn needle work that
were very pretty and quite creditable for a
child. Sophia Youngberg, Draper, aged 14
had some very fine plain hand sewing, work
on ribbon done in arasine very handsome and
fine work, Phronia Nelson Draper. aged 11
years, Gertrude Winder aged 13, handsome
lamp-mat made of ribbon fastened with cord
of chenille, May Gilbert banjo and mandolin
silk work, covered pasteboard, there were
very odd and quite pretty. Rhoda Miller,
Mill Creek, aged 10, babies bibs worked neatly,
Edna Jackson paper platting very nice aged
7, Olive Cushing 11th ward, 7 years old
woolen scarf crocheted. Louie Coulam 11th
ward 9 years old stocking darning very neat.
Sophia Youngberg aged 14, yarn' home spin-
ning, very fine, Evelina Youngberg 7 years old,
very fine darning. Fannie Coulam 11th ward
12 years, old cut fitted and made a dress waist
sewing very good, button holes well made.
Hannah Thatcher 9 years old, cut fitted and
made in goodstyle a doll's dress. Pearl Carlisle,
Mill Creek, 15 years old, large, heavy table cover
embroidered on felt in chenille, arasine,
riberdine. very elaborate in design and quite
elegant as a whole, showing talent, patience,
and neatness. Birdie Carlisle younger sister,
a table scarf handsomely embroidered. Belle
Weiler 4th ward, 13 years old a pretty apron
made by hand trimmed with novelty lace and
insertion done very neatly. Free hand draw-
ing by Alice Clawson 14 years old, these
copies and drawings showed considerable
talent; cross stitching on gingham by little
girls six and seven years old, horse shoe
watch case, covered and filled in with silk
filled and wound round with ribbon. This
was a very attractive article and as it hung
attracted considerable attention. Laura Jones
16th ward, large sofa cushion of silk, pieced
log-cabin pattern. Janette Pitt aged 9 years,
carriage robe, made of woolen pieces in form
of rosettes raised and worked in colors. Ella
Keyting 17 years old elegant silk banner,
ornamental, delicately painted and mounted.

[Column 2]

Table cover from the 17th ward Primary
intended for the Logan Temple, embroidered
in the four corners. Louie Groesbeck 12,
corner marguerites, Cathie Dougall sun-
flowers, Geneva Ellerbeck, poppies; Stella
Jacobs, fuchias, Alice Taylor 17th ward,
10 years old darning, mending, marking,
tucking, in fact of all kinds of needle work,
very good indeed. Ray Grant 13th ward,
handsome handkerchief case made when
eleven years old. Edith Dinwoody 7th ward,
aged 14, painting on China very well executed.
Ray Chamberlain 8th ward, 6 years old,
paper cutting kindergarten work very pretty.
Bessie Frost 8th ward, 13 years old, apron
hand sewing, neatly done, crochet trimming
fine and even. Eva Sheets 8th ward, 14
years old a handsome bunch of artificial
roses. Minnie Oakey, 8th ward, aged 12, 3
owls on a thorny branch very natural attracted
a great deal of notice.
	Bessie Binder [--]th ward, 13 years old, a
child's white dre[--] hand sewing with 23 tucks
all even and ne[--] stitches. Clara Hanson 7
years old croche[-] work: cream colored scrim
apron and croche very odd and pretty, pillow
shams worked in birds and snnflowers crochet
lace very deep, edged with colored floss to
correspond with the embroidery, sofa pillow
and head rest, embroidered with chenille and
arasine, in moss roses and pansies several
specimens of penmanship, and dozens and
scores of other things too numerous to mention.
Machine embroidery a swan in the water
among the rushes was quite pretty; this was
by Lutie Ashton 9 years old. There were
only two essays notwithstanding the call made
through the papers and the offer of a prize.
	There were some very well executed paint-
ings in oil by Kate V. Moris 15 years old, 15th
ward. The best was a copy of Conway
Castle in North Wales; Scene in the Yellow
stone Park painted when she was only 13
years old; Council Bluffs a copy from one of
Fred Pierce's paintings taken when she was
14. Two plaques painted in flowers, one of
roses, leaves just falling. and one of poppies;
also a larga piano cover painted quite
elaborately.
	In addition to these there were many other
things well deserving mention if our space
would permit, besides cooking of an excellent
quality and in great variety. The Fair
was a success in every respect and the children
deserve great credit.
			E. B. W.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


Mrs. Martha D. Lincoln, of Washington
D. C., better known as "Bessie Beech," be-
gan her literary work at sixteen, contribut-
ing to the Morning Star of Dover for several
years. Since then, she has been a contributor,
correspondent and reporter for many papers.
For several years past she has been engaged
on "Central Figures in Science," a book now
nearly finished. If she ever makes a collec-
tion of her "Beech Leaves,"they will cover al-
most every event of prominence in social life
at the capital for twenty years after the war.

	An effort will be made by influential
women in New York to send one of their
number to sit in court whenever a woman is
tried, in order to give her the protection that
women so much need under such circum-
stances. An official who was consulted said,
"But, ladies, you will hear much that will be
unfit for ladies to hear." After attending a
trial, one of the ladies said to him, "We
heard nothing unpleasant." "Oh," he said,
"of course not--when ladies are present." If
the presence of good women would purify the
atmosphere of our courts, it is a strong argu-
ment for having some motherly woman present
whenever an unprotected girl is to be tried.


