When a song is thus thoroughly learned, it is ready for presentation to the chorus. | Color in i (Continued from page 228) or yellow-greens-and-blue-greens are the combinations hardest to use.
Avoid too many tones of the same color (one or two are best), or too many different color tones of the same intensity.
Confine furnishings to medium tones and accessories to bright colors to avoid the disturbing effect of too strong or too many colors (3).
Bright colors should be used in furnishings only when balance can be kept.
Limit color in rooms to not more than three or four tones at the most. It is best to confine large spaces to off-white, pale tints, or "killed" colors (colors that have been grayed?hard to use without 'professional help). In selecting color combinations, there are two associated family groups that go very well together but that require some knowledge and experience to intermix successfully. Orange, yellow, and green together with the countless related tans, tusts, limes, olive, browns, and yellow-greens with white make one group; red, blue, and purple with pinks, wines, mauves, grays, and white make the other. In the first group such combinations as yellow, white, and chartreuse; brown, white, and yellow; pale green, gold, and rust are easy examples. In the second group, wine, pink and white; red and white, blue and white, or red, blue, and white; mauve, wine, and white are easily handled.
Intermixture combinations such as pink and brown; powder blue and_ yellow; wine, yellow, and white; red, green (Coritinued on page 282) ASK for FREE FULLER Aids to BEAUTIFICATION See the Fuller Paint Dealer in your community for a wealth of printed and illustrated suggestions on beautifying the home with PAINTS and WALLPAPERS. The profusion of bright colors and designs for your walls are as lovely as the springtide! You get only the highest quality when you choose FULLER products. W. P. FULLER CO. Salt Lake and Ogden FULLER PAINTS When Buying 
Mention Relief Society Magazine Color-Style Your Home Bennett's Property Life Insurance, Paints Bennett?s 66 exclusive shades and tints permit every desired effect in decoration without costly mixing. You get exactly the color you want. Ask for the FREE large color chips. BENNETT GLASS & PAINT CO. Salt Lake City Dealers throughout the Intermountain country ELECTRICITY IS Cheap COMBINATION OFFER! $17 ALUMINUM SET with purchase of new ELECTRIC RANGE SEE YOUR DEALER OR UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. Color in the Home (Continued from page 281) and white; red, green, and yellow are more novel and modern but harder to handle. The lists of color combinations that are described didactically as good or bad dyads, triads, and tetrads have always seemed confusing to me. Should we say that yellow, pale green, and brown were a good triad, your first thought would be, "How pale is pale green? What yellow... What brown should I use?" Good judgment developed through study and keen observation or through professional help is needed to obtain better than average results. And since some professional advice is based on what they have to sell, which is usually what manufacturers feel will sell best and not always what is most artistic, the problem in the final analysis is a personal one of study and observation. Then your own individuality and personality are expressed, and your house becomes much more your home. ?The Relief Society Song Book is now ready The Price is 85c Per Copy?Post Paid Address Orders to GENERAL OFFICE 28
Bishops Building Salt Lake City When Buying