[Vol27 | April 1940 | Sequence: 28 | Category: Article | Title: Children's Friend, Souvenir Number ?]
children. "We can be glad we found. Out he wasn't going to keep his agreement before we spent any more on the place, - Eileen." Eileen said bitterly, "I don't suppose you remember the new bathroom fixtures, that inlaid linoleum for the kitchen, all the painting and kalsomining? We only spent about four hundred good dollars for improvements, and most of it will stay put while we go blissfully on making payments. No wonder he's got a chance to sell it for cash." "Sh! Mrs. Dewey'll think you're beating me again, honey." Eileen lowered her voice, but with threatening earnestness she reminded him. "Remember this house that morning we came? Plaster and old wall-paper in great heaps all over the kitchen floor, everywhere woodwork that needed scrubbing and two coats of paint, a yard filled with bottles, cans, old straw and rusty stove pipes! I tell you, Don, I won't do that again. I won't move again! Junior and Jackie worked for weeks to get materials up in that big poplar for their tree hut. And for what? Don't you care at all, Don?" "Of course I care, honey. And I don't feel exactly right about this deal, but I can see the Doctor's point of view; and?well, let's just  'calm down a bit, honey, and think 'it all over, and maybe we can decide what's best to do about it." Don was made that way, things just naturally kept calm inside, while Eileen blew off the steam for the family. "To. Think you believed that righteous little gnat! You wouldn't even take my warning and get something down in writing. Because he's Dr. Pribble he thinks?he thinks? Well he can't make me move!". "He can very easily, if he wants to. We don't have a written contract you know. There's not a thing you can do, so you might as well?" Eileen's face brightened. "Did you give him the check for April's rent?" "No. I'll send him a check." "Oh, no you won't! We won't pay him another penny. We'll get something for all this work, and we'll stay here till he drags us out. If he comes here after it, I'll tell him to wait?and I mean wait!" "Come on, Mom," he said kindly, placing paper, pencil and alphabet back in his pocket. "I must hie to bed if my students are to gain that portion of their necessary education on the morrow. We won't have to move until the last of April, so we've got more than a month to find a new place. Let's sleep on it, huh?"
SUDDENLY Eileen was ashamed and disgusted with all this useless raving. She was sick inside. She had never been able to accomplish anything by it. All the atmosphere about her, electric with "push", had never penetrated the peace that was with Don, the deep sense of contentment that was part of him. She had preached her acid sermons, which of course she hadn't always entirely meant.
MOVING AGAIN
They had added dramatic thrill to living, perhaps, but they hadn't changed Don. Closing her eyes did not shut out her thoughts. She felt almost bitter toward him, lying beside her. He could have had a good job, or a better one, if he hadn't been so easygoing. He could have had that job in high