WITH THE GIFT OF AN APRON By a Grand-daughter of President C. W. Penrose Please accept this little gift, For small as it may seem, It carries with it, truest love, Remembrance and esteem. A trifle insignificant,? And yet, a token which Has friendship woven in each thread, And love in every stitch. Ai Guide Lessons for September LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in September) THE LORD'S SUPPER The Sacrament of the Lord's Supper is observed by all Christian churches except the Quakers. It is a celebration of the Last Supper eaten by our Lord and Master before he went out to trial and crucifixion. Like all the sacraments and ordinances of the gospel it has been modified and changed by the Christian churches through the apostasy which has crept into the churches and sects. In this lesson we shall indicate only a line of study which should be followed up by those who wish to know concerning the marvelous ordinance so that mothers might teach their children and grandchildren in the home circle, and thus prepare them to understand and appreciate the beauty of the Sacrament. Let students read the story of the introduction of the Feast of the Passover, as it is given in Exodus, chapter 12, and then read from Matthew 26, and John 13. At this last Passover feast, Jesus tried to show his disciples that the annual ceremony of killing the paschal lamb, under the peculiar condition taught by Moses, was a symbolic ceremony which shadowed forth his own sacrifice of the cross; for he was the Paschal Lamb without blemish or fault, the Firstling of the Flock as he was the First Born of his Father's kingdom. When he took the piece of unleavened bread in the ceremony, he told his disciples that afterwards they were to remember that the unleavened bread represented his own broken body; he broke the bread and wine and passed it around to his disciples saying, "Do this in memory of me." Then when he lifted up the cup of wine he told them that, on down the centuries, the wine should typify the shedding of his blood and the bread his broken body as the Redeemer of the world, and he cautioned them to partake of it in memory of him in all future time. The Jews had forgotten the double meaning of, the great Paschal feast, and like the present day Christians had wandered far away from the truth. They confined the Paschal Lamb and the feast to the Passover memorial only. Jesus himself GUIDE LESSONS 419 found it difficult to teach his own disciples just what was meant by this changing of the Passover ceremonies into his supper or a symbolic ceremony; partaken of in remembrance of his sacrifice. A point that should always be remembered in teaching our children is, that it is not only that we please the Savior by partaking of this Sacrament it is also true that we get a blessing when we think of him and renew our covenants at the Sacrament table. He has all glory and power, but he obtained it himself by complying with the laws and ordinances of the gospel. Now he wants us to go through the same schooling as he did that we may acquire the same experience and receive the blessings through obedience to eternal laws. The disciples of the Savior remembered his injunction and although they were persecuted and scattered, after the crucifixion, and especially after the day of Pentecost, his disciples then understood exactly what he meant, and they renamed the ordinance calling it the Lord's Supper instead of the Passover Feast. To be sure the Passover commemorated the passing of the Israelites over the Red Sea, dry shod; but the Paschal Lamb which was offered with it was extremely typical or symbolic of the sacrifice of the Savior himself. Indeed, all the ancient Hebrew ceremonies pointed to the mission of the Savior, and that was fully understood hy Moses and Noah and Adam; but in the ages which followed Moses' day, the Jewish people gradually became indifferent; and, finally, when the Savior came there was only a few who accepted his divine message, as there is only a few that accept the restoration of the gospel which he himself restored in this day to the Prophet Joseph Smith. We would call your attention in this connection to an article which appeared in the Magazine in April, 1919, as the article gives a little side light on the Paschal Feast. The early Christians observed the simple ceremony of blessing the bread and wine and then passing it around to all the congregation just as we do today. It must be remembered that in those oriental countries water was not always pure to drink, since it was kept in cisterns, and sometimes became full of disease germs; and so the people made a light sour wine which they mixed with the water and the accidity cleansed the water or killed the germs in it. After the Christian church fell away from the truth, following the death of all the apostles, changes crept into the ordinances and ceremonies. It was believed that the Lord's Supper had a peculiar efficacy attached to it, and both bodily and spiritual diseases could be cured through partaking of it. Then, as the apostasy grew, they began to surround the ceremonial with mystery and superstition. As early as the second century Ignatius 
 and Justin Martyr advanced the opinion that the mere bread and wine became something higher and more heavenly without, however, ceasing to be bread and wine. This view was combated by Origen, who died 254 A. D, He took a figurative conception of the Sacrament and tried to prevent the people from taking a supernatural view of the Lord's Supper. By the third century the church (which is now called the Catholic church) withdrew the Sacrament from the people permitting only the priests to partake of it. The church claimed that the bread and wine was another sacrifice similar to that offered up in the death of Christ. The ceremonial began to be surrounded with gradually increasing splendor of celebration. Finally, under Gregory the great, 590 A. D., it developed into what is known today as the Mass. Then finally they had a Low Mass and a High Mass. In the Low Mass a single Priest reads the service and in the High Mass the services is chanted or sung by the Priests and Deacons or sub-deacons. The forty-first psalm is sung after an introductory prayer, long extracts from the scriptures are introduced or sung, and extracts from the Nicene Creed is read and responded to by the people. After this the priest's hands are washed and prayer is read by the priest followed by the penitents or candidates retiring from the church. After that there are more prayers and the "Elevation of the Host" or the lifting up of the bread anid wine by the priest is made, and another prayer follows, and still another; then the Host or Sacrament is again lifted up and carried around the church for the people to worship. It is not only worshiped as a symbol and emblem of the Body and Blood of the Savior, it is also believed and taught, as a part of their creed and accepted for centuries, that the bread and wine are, in the act of consecration transformed by the omnipotence of God into the very body and blood of Christ which was once born of Mary, nailed to the cross, and restored from the dead. According to this conception nothing remains of the bread and wine except the outward form, the taste and smell. At the council of Rome, held in 1215 A. D., under Innocent Third, this doctrine which was called "Transubstantiation" was declared to be an article of faith; and it has continued to be so held by the Catholic church to the present day. You can understand, therefore, how it is that the Catholic people bow and kneel in abject worship, when the "Host" (which is the wafers and wine consecrated by the priest) is believed to be the actual flesh and blood of the Savior. With the Reformation of Martin Luther came opposition to this view; some of the reformers insisted that the bread and wine were only symbolic; Zwingli maintained this view, and the Presbyterians, and other Protestant churches, accept this symbolic view. For many centuries, in the Catholic church, the priests GUIDE LESSONS 421 only were allowed to partake of the Sacrament, but in very recent years, in America at least, the laity have been permitted to partake of the Sacrament. Over this bitterly contested point, all down the ages since, there have been furious theological storms. The Episcopal church itself is divided on this matter. The High church, as it is called, maintains what it calls objective mystical presence of the things sacrificed along with the sin; but - the Low church adheres to the symbolic view of the Sacrament. The elaborate and costly ceremonies, however, of both churches, resemble the Catholic ceremonies. It will be well to quote here the opposite views of the two modern representative churches, on this point, as given by their own writers and exponents in What the World Believes: "The Greeks celebrate mass, which consists of a round of ceremonies somewhat similar to those of the Latin mass. The laity, as well as the clergy, however, among the Greeks, take the Sacrament in both hands, and receive from the hands of the priests the consecrated bread and wine in the same spoon, which the Greeks call labis. The laity receive the Sacrament standing at the door of the sanctuary; the men first and then the women. Those who presume to partake of this holy banquet must stand in a modest reverential posture; their eyes must be fixed on the ground, and their heads bowed down, as persons in the act of adoration, and their arms must be crossed. The Greeks follow the example of the Latins, carry the communion to the sick, but with less pomp or grandeur, it being contained in a little box, enclosed in a bag, which the priest bears under his arm. This is a small parcel or portion of the blessed bread, which they also carry to those whose business confines them at home. They take a small portion of consecrated bread, about an inch square, cut it in the form of a cross, and sprinkle it with a little blood (that is, transubstantiated wine) and administer it to the sick, after having moistened it with a little water, or a little wine, and this is their viaticum which they give to sick and dying persons. The following extract describes the Episcopalian form: The Communion is one of the principal Sacraments of the Church of England, for which purpose the altar, for this name is often given by the members of the Church of England to the communion table, ought to have a clean white cloth upon it, and to stand in the body of the church, or in the chancel, where morning and evening prayers are appointed to be said. At all other times the said table is covered with silk, and set in a decent place altar-wise. The priest, standing at the north side of the table, repeats the Lord's prayer, with a collect, then rehearses distinctly the ten commandments; after each, the people kneeling, say, "Lord have mercy on us, and incline our hearts to keep this law." This is followed by a collect for the sovereign, which the priest says standing; the collect of the day, the epistle, and gospel, at which last the people stand, as they do like-wise at the singing or reciting of the Nicene or Constantinopolitan creed, which is done immediately after the gospel. The curate declares unto the people what holidays and fasting days are in the week following 
 to be observed; and, if occasion be, publishes the banns of matrimony, reads briefs, citations, and excommunications. Then follows the sermon, which being ended, alms are taken for the poor, or church purposes. This is followed by prayers and exhortations; after which, the priest stands up before the table, and having so ordered the bread and wine that he may with the more readiness and decency break the bread before the people, and take the cup into his hands, repeats the prayer of consecration, which begins the third part of the Communion service: "Hear us, O merciful Father, and grant that we, receiving these thy creatures of bread and wine, according to Jesus Christ's holy institution, in remembrance of his death and passion, may be partakers of his most blessed body and blood, who in the same night that he was betrayed took bread, and when he had given thanks, he break it, and gave it to his disciples, saying, 'Take, eat, this is my body which is given for you; do this in remembrance of me.' Likewise, after supper, he took the cup, and when he had given thanks, he gave it to them, saying, 'Drink ye all of this for this is my blood of the new testament, which is shed for you, for the remission of sins. Do this as oft as ye shall drink it in remembrance of me.'" The priest first receives the communion in both hands himself, then proceeds to deliver the same to the bishops, priests, and deasons (if any be present); and after that, to the people also in order into their hands, all meekly kneeling. The priest repeats a prayer when he gives the bread, and another when the cup is given to any one. If the consecrated bread or wine be exhausted before all have communicated, the priest is to consecrate more. If, on the contrary, there remains any when all have communicated, the minister returns to the Lord's table, and reverently places upon it what remains of the consecrated elements, covering the same with a clean linen cloth. Here begins the fourth and last part of the communion service. The Lord's prayer is recited by the minister, the people repeating after him every petition; then follows another form of thanksgiving; after which, "Glory be to God on high," is sung, a hymn to which antiquity has given the appelation of angelical. The whole service is concluded by the priest (or bishop, if he be present) dismissing the congregation with a blessing.The Presbyterian form is as follows: 1. The times for celebrating the Lord's Supper are to be determined by the minister and elders. In some portions of the Church it is observed only semi-annually; more generally, however, as often as once in three months; in others, once in two months, and in a few, monthly. 2, The ignorant and scandalous are not admitted, In the Presbyterian church in the United States it is not deemed necessary to protect the tables of the Lord from unworthy communicants by requiring tickets of admission. It is found that very seldom does any one offer to approach without being a regularly acknowledged communicant. 3. Public notice is given of the intention to celebrate the Lord's Supper one Lord's day previous to the administration of the ordinance, and a lecture is delivered on some covenient season in the course of the week, that by preparatory instruction and devotion the church may come in a suitable manner to this holy feast. 4. When the service has been introduced with appropriate devotional exercises, or a sermon, the bishop or pastor shows that this is an ordinance of Christ, by teaching the words of the institution, either from GUIDE LESSONS 423 one of the Evangelists, or from Ist Cor. 11, which, as to him may appear expedient, he may explain and apply. 5. The table on which the elements are placed, being decently covered, the bread in convenient dishes, and the wine in cups, and the communicants orderly and gravely sitting around the table, or in their seats before it, the minister sets the elements apart by prayer and thanksgiving. He then takes the bread and breaks it, in the presence of the people, saying: "Our Lord Jesus Christ, on the same night in which he was betrayed, having taken bread and blessed and broken it, gave it to his disciples; as I, ministering in his name, give this bread to you, saying (while the elders commence the distribution), "Take eat, this is my body which is broken for you, this do in remembrance of me." After having given the bread with due care that none have been neglected, he takes the cup and says: "After the same manner our Savior took the cup, and having given thanks, as hath been done in his name, he gave it to his disciples, saying (while the minister repeats these words he gives the cup to the elders), 'This cup is the New Testament in my blood which is shed for many, for the remission of sins. Drink ye all of it." The pastor and elders may communicate at such times as are convenient. The service is commonly concluded with exhortation and Prayer, and singing a hymn, and pronouncing the apostolical benediction. The Sacrament of the Lord's Supper is administered in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints every Sabbath day in the Sunday schools, and in the ward houses of worship. It is given only to those who are in good fellowship, and those who administer it are enjoined, in the Doctrine and Covenants, to be very cautions that only those who are worthy shall partake of it, those who have clean hands and pure hearts, who keep the commandments of God, and who have covenanted in the waters of baptism with him, are eligible to partake of the Sacrament. Read section 20:75-81, Doctrine and Covenants. Compare the wording of the prayer concerning it with the ceremonies we have quoted from the other churches, The Nephites understood and administered this ordinance, (read chapter 5 in the book of Moroni). The Nephites had, of course, observed their Hebrew Passover service and when the Savior came to this continent he taught them the same ceremonies and principles which he had given his disciples in Jerusalem; that is, he taught them to transform this Passover memorial serVice into an ordinance which should commemorate his earthly crucifixion. 7 We learn, therefore, that the law of sacrifice, which was understood and practiced by the Jews, can be remembered by us every Sabbath day when we partake of the Sacrament. Every Latter-day Saint, and especially those who have made covenants in the temple, should go to the house of the Lord on the Sabbath day and partake of these sacred emblems to renew their covenants 
 and to remember the crucifixion and thus to receive special and wonderful blessings in their own body and spirit. We do not believe in the mysticism and superstition of the Catholic church, in regard to the Sacrament. It is revolting to think of eating the flesh and drinking the blood of any body, much less that of the Savior. Miracles which are performed by our Father in heaven do not take the form of unnecessary displays of magic and witchcraft, in order to impress or appal mortal man. Ali the miracles which the Savior performed, and which are recorded in the scriptures, were done on strictly natural principles. Study them for yourself. At the same time Latter-day Saint mothers should see to it that from the time a child is able to partake of the Sacrament that child should be taught to regard the piece of bread and the sip of water as a holy symbol and as a sacred ordinance, After they are so taught and after we approach that ordinance with the solemn and sacred spirit and thought which it deserves, there will be a reformation in the careless attitude and indifferent approach so often manifested by our people when they partake of the Lord's Supper. Reading or study will result in a tangible reformation on this subject. QUESTIONS 1. What was the Passover Feast? Describe the Paschal Lamb, and how it was killed, and its resemblances to the offering of the Savior's life. (See Students' Help to the Study of the Bible, in any good Bible.) 2. Under what circumstances did the Savior himself administer the Sacrament to his disciples? Describe the customs of the early Christian church. 3. How do the Catholics administer the Sacrament? 4. Have you ever attended a Catholic Mass? If so, describe it; if not, attend one, and then describe it to the class. 5. How do the Episcopalians administer the Sacrament? Attend one of their services and describe it to the class. 6. What do the Protestant churches believe, in regard to the Sacrament? 7. Who was Martin Luther? Who was Justin Martyr? 8. How did the early Catholics differ about the Sacrament? 10. Do you teach your children the solemnity of that ordinance? If not, why not? 11. Discuss the contrast between our observance of the ordinance and that of other churches. GUIDE LESSONS 425 LESSON II Work and Business. (Second Week in September) LESSON III Literature. (Third Week in September) Our last lesson was devoted to "Up, awake, ye defenders of Zion," President Penrose's historical hymn, which we suggested might fittingly be called the battle hymn of Zion. This lesson will be devoted to three hymns, so that we shall not be able to make an exhaustive study of any one of the group, but shall be under the necessity of selecting some of the prominent characteristics of each. We turn first to "School thy feelings,' which is said to have been the favorite hymn of President Francis M. Lyman. It might easily be the favorite hymn of a goodly number of people. It was written in Birmingham, England, in 1860, under the following circumstances: Elder Penrose had labored in that part of the British mission for ten years. In order to make the Church office more attractive and comfortable, he had placed some of his own furniture in it. Later, when it was no longer needed, he moved it back to his home, only to start some of the Saints, given to gossip, telling that the presiding elder had taken furniture belonging to the Church. This stung Elder Penrose to the core, he sorrowed deeply, no doubt feeling it a hard reward after his years of devotion. George Eliot tells us that literature, like the pearl the oyster secretes in its malady, is frequently the offspring of suffering. "School thy feelings" was begotten in pain and mental struggle, and was written by. President Penrose for his own consolation. He had no intention of making it public in the beginning; but, reading it to a friend who found much comfort in it, he finally allowed it to be made public when he discovered that its appeal was universal. The chief merit of the hymn lies no doubt in the ethical messages it embodies. Four ideas are prominent throughout; the first is a clear call for self-control set forth in such phrases as "there is power in the cool, collected mind;" the second warns 
 against hasty judgment, and admonishes that we "hear defense before deciding;" the third assures the guiltless that they need have no fears, "for time's a friend to innocence," and lastly we are told that "noblest minds have finest feelings," consequently the greatest care should be taken to guard against a "wilful wound." The author's struggle is apparent throughout; one moment he is seeking to quell the very natural instinct of anger, the next he is thinking that had his accusers known the facts in the case, they would have judged very differently; nevertheless, he has consolation in the fact that time is a friend to innocence, but apparently resolves that because of his own keen suffering he will be most careful of the feelings of others. Conciseness and terseness characterize the lines, which are frequently embellished with very effective figures such as, "passion shatters reason's tower," and, "noblest minds have finest feelings, quivering strings a breath can move, and the gospel's sweet revealings tune them with the key of love." We regret that President Penrose was made to suffer so keenly, but if such things come only through tribulation, then our gain has been so great that we feel deeply how incomplete the hymnology of the Latter-day Saints would be without this soulsearching and comforting hymn. We pass now to the most popular of Elder Penrose's hymns, "O, ye mountains high." This hymn, written in England, in 1854, was born of emotional stress. For ten years, Elder Penrose had confidently looked forward to the time when he should gather with the Saints. He had nearly realized his desire, several times, when something would occur to thwart his plans. At a moment when he felt sure of his release, he was told that he could not yet be spared. Disappointment, coupled with a deep yearning for that Zion which must a little longer be denied him, quickened his imagination and he wrote, "O, ye mountains high," before seeing America. Truly, his imagination had been assisted by descriptions that fell from the lips of the elders, as well as by the photographs they carried to show to persons in distant parts; even so, the writing of this hymn must always be a marvel and a wonder. The hymn came to the author as he walked along an English country road. It made small impression upon the English Saints to whom he read it, as they had no experience to which they might relate it, but whatever of interest it lacked for them has been made up many times by the deep, interest and love felt for it by the Saints in the mountains where it has always been a great favorite. The first stanza, in all probability, makes the largest appeal GUIDE LESSONS. 427 as it combines, in lofty words, a description of the mountains with a feeling of devotion and admiration for Zion and her ideals. Two things come to the fore in this stanza; the concrete particulars that go to make up the natural environment, and the deep-seated longing of the poet to be in Zion. Note how full of anticipation the lines, "Now my own mountain home, unto thee I have come, all my, fond hopes are centered in thee." In the second stanza, there is an admission that the great and the wise of the earth would not see all the beauties of Zion, for they must be seen in part by the eye of the spirit. The third stanza gives promise of Zion rising in divine splendor to become the city set upon a hill whose beauty cannot bo hidden from the rest of the world. The fourth stanza promises deliverance from oppressors, a promise that must have heartened the Saints, as they no doubt felt keenly the persecution of which they were constantly victims. There are persons who occasionally suggest that the language of the third stanza, reading, "On the necks of thy foes thou shalt tread," is severe. We have even heard people express the opinion that this line has no reference to the foes of the Church, but refers to human weakness which each individual must seek to overcome. If we may be permitted tto intrude our own opinion at this point, it is, that we regard these lines, and some others in the poem, as an expression growing out of a period cf bitter persecution of the Saints, and, while we rejoice that such a period is behind us, we do not object to recognizing that it once existed nor that its traces are found in our literature for it is as much the function of literature to embalm the past as it is to bespeak the future. One of the marked beauties of this hymn, from a literary standpoint, is found in the very effective climaxes, at the close of each stanza, carrying forth the emotional message of the hymn, love of Zion. Let us list them so we may better judge their quality. "Now my own mountain home, unto thee I have come, All my fond hopes are centered in thee." "Though thou wert forced to fly to thy chambers on high, Yet we'll share joy and sorrow with thee." "Soon thy towers shall shine with a splendor divine And eternal thy glory shall be." "In thy temples we'll bend, call thy rights we'll defend, And our home shall be ever with thee." President Penrose's most exquisite hymn is perhaps, "Blow 
 gently, ye wild winds," sung to the popular air, "Flow gently, sweet Afton." Its author had been in the valleys a very short time when a mission returned him to his native land. He had left his family in destitute circumstances, in Logan, and the memory of winds that had partly demolished a home in Farmington, where he once lived, haunted him, and as a result of great anxiety for his loved ones at home came this very beautiful hymn. It is one of the choice poems of "Mormon" literature, and confirms beyond the possibility of a doubt President Penrose's right to be called a poet. We insert the hymn, and then ask the reader to note the beauty and delicacy of the images that convey the content of the poem. Blow gently, ye wild winds with frost in your breath, That smite the glad stream with the chill hand of death, When shrieking and fierce o'er the mountains ye come, Blow gently, I pray, on my loved ones at home! Thou ice-crowned King Winter, with storms at thy side, Thou white-breasted Snowdrift, the stern monarch's bride, While binding the sunshine and chilling the air, Be gentle in Utah, my loved ones are there! Fell Demon of Pain, with merciless eye, Look not on my dwelling, pass hastily by; Thou wrinkle-browed Want; keep away from my door, That thy shadow may fall on my loved ones no more. Go, rosy-faced Laughter on pinions of light, Take Health, thy companion, to share in thy flight, Diffuse through my rude cot a life-giving bloom, And dimple the cheeks of my loved ones at home, Bright Angel of Gladness, so calm, yet so strong, Sweet Spirit of Hope, as thou glidest along On thy mission of peace to the souls who are tried, O, rest for awhile where my loved ones reside! Bid Fear, Doubt and Sadness forever depart, And dry up the tear-drop that Mem'ry may start. Then point to the time when the wand'rer shall come, And press to his fond heart the loved ones at home! John Ruskin has always been noted for his epithets, a compound adjective most effective in descriptive literature; yet, much as we admire the epithets of John Ruskin, we have equal admiration for their use by President Penrose as found in "Blow gently, ye wild winds." Let us note some of them: ice-crowned King