[Vol53 | November 1966 | Page 814 | Special Feature | "Every Wise Woman" | Louise W. Madsen]
813 Counselor Louise W. Madsen [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 28, 1966] BI4 m@ "Every wise woman buildeth her house" (Proverbs 14:1). Whether that house is a stately mansion or a hovel depends on her who builds it. If the foundation is firm, the walls strong, the roof tight against the elements, the windows shining, and the doors solid to withstand evil from without, she builds well. Faith, the first principle of the gospel, is the foundation of the house a wise woman builds for her soul. According to the scriptures, faith is implicit confidence and full trust in God, his being, his purposes, his words, and commandments. With such faith all doubt is removed, supplanted by complete assurance and knowledge of the way one's life should be directed. Faith is a gift of God, given to those who are prepared to receive it. It is so precious a gift that it is not bestowed just_for the asking, nor given to those who have not sought it. The Savior's question to Peter, "Whom say ye that I am?" was answered "Thou art the Christ, the Son of the Living God" (Matt. 16:15- 16). "And Jesus answered and said unto him, Blessed art thou, Simon Barjona: for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven" (Matt. 16:17). Elder James E. Talmage states (Articles of Faith, page 99): Peter's faith had already shown its vitalizing power; it had caused him to forsake much that had been dear, to follow his Lord through persecution and suffering, and to put away worldliness with its fascinations for the sacrificing godliness which his faith made so desirable. This cumulative evidence of Peter's worthiness made possible the gift of faith. That faith is greater than _ knowledge is attested by the fact that as Jesus went about he was frequently accosted by those possessed of evil spirits who "when they saw him, fell down before him, and cried, saying, Thou art the Son of God" (Mark 3:11). Satan himself knows, yet with his knowledge he is Satan still. His knowledge has not impelled him to be righteous, to obey the Lord's commandments, to forsake evil. Faith is an impelling force which leads to action. This motivating power makes faith greater than knowledge or belief which are passive. How greatly we need protection from the evils of our day! Faith protects. Alma _ taught, "Now ye see that this is the true faith of God; yea, ye see that God will support, and keep, and preserve us, so long as we are faithful unto him, and unto our faith, and our religion; and never will the Lord suffer that we shall be destroyed except we should fall into transgression and deny our faith" (Alma 44:4). Faith is a power in prayer. The angel of the Lord who appeared to Alma and the sons of Mosiah to effect their miraculous conversion told them that the Lord had heard the prayers of his people and of the elder Alma because they had prayed with much faith. "For this purpose have I come to convince thee of the power and authority of God, that the prayers of his servants might be answered according to their faith" (Mosiah 27:14). Faith is a power in righteous living, an "anchor to the souls of men, which would make EVERY WISE WOMAN them sure and steadfast, always abounding in good works, being led to glorify God" (Ether 12: 4). Those who do not have faith feel little obligation to obey and live righteously. _ Why do we speak of faith? Why do we urge the sisters to acquire greater faith? Why do we endeavor to teach them the meaning of faith and the necessity of building the inner resources which guide their lives? Because we are concerned that every woman shall attain exaltation. Because we in Relief Society are charged with the responsibility of teaching, exhorting, persuading and leading the sisters with loving compassion. Because Relief Society is to save souls, and perfect faith in the Holy One is necessary for salvation in the kingdom of God. Relief Society numbers thousands and thousands of women. Its greatness lies in its influence on each individual woman. "No man is wise enough by himself," we are told (Plautus). No woman has such great wisdom that she cannot profit from the help of others in strengthening her faith. "Every wise woman buildeth her house: but the foolish plucketh it down with her hands" (Proverbs 14:1). Every foolish or sinful act, every lost opportunity to serve, every weakening to temptation, every acceptance of evil is as though the foolish woman willfully weakens the foundation of her house, removes bricks from the walls, neglects leaks in the roof, blurs the shining windows, and opens the door for evil to enter in. The house she builds in which her soul will dwell is beautiful, firm and strong, or not, according to her faith and works. 815 Report and Official Instructions President Belle S. Spafford [Delivered at the Officers Meeting of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 28, 1966] @ As most of you know, a regular feature of the Officers Meeting of the Relief Society Annual General Conference is a brief report of the status of the organization taken from the most recent annual report, together with a few official instructions, recommendations, and perhaps a few cautions with regard to the conduct of Relief Society work. SECRETARY-TREASURERS—NEW REPORT FORMS The secretary-treasurers deserve commendation for the excellence of the 1965 reports. They contain a vast amount of factual information; they reflect a clear understanding on the part of secretaries of how properly to record activities. They were neatly and accurately prepared.

816 New record books will go into effect September 1, 1967, and will cover the period September 1, 1967, through August 31, 1968, inasmuch as September through August will then be regarded as the Relief Society year. There will be minor changes in the new forms which will be explained in the secretary-treasurers department of this conference. Presidents are urged to acquaint themselves with these changes through their secretary-treasurers. LEADERSHIP AND GENERAL ORGANIZATION STRENGTH Capable leadership is_ being given to the program of Relief Society by Relief Society presidents and other officers and class leaders in the stakes and wards, missions and branches of the Church. One hundred ninety thousand women hold leadership positions. Growth of the society in size and accomplishment is encouraging. Adherence to General Board regulations, high standards of performance, devoted service are the general characteristics of Relief Societies throughout the Church. As General Board members have traveled to stake quarterly conferences, opportunity has been afforded them, in some instances, to meet with mission Relief Society leaders. Achievements in the missions are heartening, acording to reports. MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDANCE Church-wide Relief Society membership at the close of 1965 was 286,820 — an increase of 12,000 over 1964. Average attendance at the regular Relief Society meetings was 108,195 — an increase over the previous year of more than 4,500 women. Reports indicate there are 6,662 stake, mission, district, ward, and branch Relief Society organizations located in 53 countries throughout the world. This is an increase of 131 organizations. RELIEF SOCIETY PROGRAM The program of Relief Society which is affecting the lives of nearly 300,000 women is directed toward helping women to gain an understanding of the doctrines and principles of the gospel and to develop testimonies sufficiently strong so as to bring their daily conduct into harmony with Church teachings. The program aims to awaken Relief Society members to their responsibilities in caring for the sick, the aged, the homebound, and in ministering, as needed, to the bereaved,