[Vol53 | November 1966 | Page 811 | Special Feature | "None Other Name" | Marianne C. Sharp]
I thought of words spoken to Relief Society members by the Prophet Joseph Smith in 1842, "After this instruction, you will be responsible for your own sins." I thought of the weight of responsibility on Relief Society members to be a force in testifying of their knowledge that God lives and that Jesus is the Christ. I feel that each of us, as a Relief Society member, needs to search her own heart to ascertain NOVEMBER 1966 just how strong is hey testimony, then to pray, study, and perform works which will steadily strengthen it. Some who are converts know how they struggled and sacrificed to obtain a testimony. Others who are born in the Church know what they had to do for their testimony, and still others seem to have brought their testimonies with them from. The premortal life. We do not know entirely why it is easier for some to obtain a testimony than others—that knowledge belongs to the Lord—but we do know that with our free agency, it is the responsibility of every Relief Society member to save herself, as the Prophet said, and each one of us must gain and keep strong her testimony of the gospel if she would be exalted. Of what does this testimony consist? A knowledge that God is our Father and that Jesus Christ, his Son in the spirit world as well as in this world, is the Christ, our Redeemer, our Advocate with the Father. The testimony of the truthfulness of the gospel is an. Adjunct to this knowledge. With every fiber of our beings, we need to know the truth of the words of the Savior, "I am the way, the truth, and the life: no man cometh unto the Father, but by me" (John 14:6). You hear some women say, "Oh, I wish I had lived in the days of the Savior. If I had seen him and the miracles he performed, it would be easy to believe in him." Sister Spafford had an important assignment last spring which took her around the world. She made a very significant state- 812 ment in reporting her experiences when she said, "There are miracles today and the greatest miracle is how the gospel changes people." A woman living today can witness and experience the same miracle she would have experienced when the Savior was on earth—the miracle of changing her own soul through filling it with the knowledge that Jesus is the Christ. Nor is this knowledge a static thing. It grows or it withers. Time permits the mention of only a few attributes which we, as Latter-day Saint women, must cultivate if we would have our testimonies grow and _ increase. These attributes, among others, are delineated for us by the Savior in the scriptures. Modern day prophets constantly exhort us to live them today. The Latter-day Saint woman will cultivate faith such as the Greek woman had when Jesus promised her, "O woman, great is thy faith: be it unto thee even as thou wilt" (Matt. 15:28). The Latter-day Saint woman will sacrifice, as Jesus admonished, "No man having put his hand to the plough and looking back is fit for the kingdom of God" (Luke 9:62). The Latter-day Saint woman will recognize true greatness. "Whosoever therefore shall humble himself as this little child, the same is greatest in the kingdom of heaven" (Matt. 18:4). The Latter-day Saint woman will be humble in the estimation of her own knowledge at this time when men exalt themselves and say God is dead. In her humility she recalls the question of the Lord to Job, ''Who is this that darkeneth counsel by words without knowledge?" (Job 38:2). The Latter-day Saint woman will seek cultural refinement, seek to bring. Into her life a heightened appreciation for the beauties of creation and her own responsibility to create beauty around her. "Give her of the fruit of her hands; and let her own works praise her in the gates" (Proverbs 31:31).: The Latter-day Saint woman will possess love. '"'He that loveth not knoweth not God; for God is love" (I John 4:8). The Latter-day Saint woman will study the life of the Savior. In seeking to enlarge her love for him, she reads, "If ye love me, keep my commandments" (John 14:15). "Keep my commandments," only three words but how difficult to obey. How hard, at times, to exercise love in one's relations with others, how hard to be patient, to be understanding, and obedient. How easy to have one's feelings hurt, to feel unappreciated, to feel unjustly treated. Sorrow, pain, suffering come. The rock on which each Latterday Saint woman must stand to overcome the cares of the world is the strength of her own testimony. "For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life' (John 3:16). Jesus Christ so loved us that he took upon himself the sins of the world and, in agony, called upon his Father in Gethsemane, -in the words of President Clark,

"NONE OTHER NAME" "for aid to the fulfilling of his mission—the making of the great atonement for Adam's fall" (On the Way to Immortality and Eternal Life, page 21), "and his sweat was as it were great drops of blood falling down to the ground" (Luke 22:44). No wonder that we may only prevail as we love and worship Jesus Christ as the Son of God and our Savior, "for there is none other name under heaven given among men, whereby we must be saved" (Acts 4:12). I feel to search my soul to find out how much [I love the Savior; how much obedience to his commandments rules my thoughts and actions, how far I am from living the two great commandments. I acknowledge the power which Relief Society has had in my life to help me increase my talents, my knowledge, and my testimony. I know that our Heavenly Father is a loving, merciful Father who loves each one of us, for he is no respecter of persons. I know that Jesus Christ is his Son, and our Redeemer and Savior. I know that the gospel was restored through the Prophet Joseph Smith, and that President McKay is the Prophet of the Lord today. I thank the Lord for my testimony—the most precious gift he has given me here upon the earth. May we all—Latter-day Saint women—search our own souls and strive unceasingly to increase our testimonies—the wellsprings of our lives, I pray.