[Vol53 | November 1966 | Page 865 | Home | Homemaking — Family Budgeting From Early Marriage to Retirement Celestia | J. Taylor]
HOMEMAKING—Development Through Homemaking Education Celestia J. Taylor Family Budgeting From Early Marriage to Retirement Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, February 1967 Southern Hemisphere: July 1967 Objective: To show that wise financial planning is helpful in all circumstances for all age groups. NOTE: The material and principles in this discussion may need to be adapted to the culture and way of life in different areas of the world without, however, in any way changing INTRODUCTION In the life cycle of a family, each stage of development has a direct influence on all succeeding stages as they appear. Probably the most important of these is the first one—that established by two young parents who, as "Young Marrieds,'" begin this important life cycle. The final stage, retirement, depends for its success almost entirely upon the long-range plans made by these young partners. Especially is this true in regard to their financial planning, with which this discussion is concerned. YOUNG MARRIEDS In the early years of living together, the young marriage partners must make adjustments and plans which will determine the future—indeed, the entire structhe objective of the discussion. Ture of the family which they hope to establish. This is not easy, for seldom do the bride and groom come from backgrounds which are identical in nature from whatever perspective they might be viewed. But the differences can actually be sources of strength if they are brought into a proper balance by careful planning and mutual cooperation. TO DISCUSS Case Study A: Tom and Margaret are beginning their married life. Their financial prospects are good, Tom having a position with possibilities of future advancement in a well-established firm. In planning where to live, they decide in favor of a modest apartment which they furnish economically, but tastefully, with just those things which are necessary for their immediate needs. Together, they work out a plan which will enable them to realize 


 some of their desires and ambitions for the future. The success of this plan, they realize, depends upon a program of self-discipline and selfdenial. Many of the immediate wants will have to be curtailed since they do not want to go in debt. They invest in an insurance plan which will be a protective safeguard in the future. They also work out a plan of saving for future needs, including a home. This they do by putting aside small amounts regularly for this purpose. Discuss the advisability of making such a plan. What are the benefits of selfdiscipline and self-denial in es-_ tablishing financial security? What are the responsibilities of parents in preparing young people to accept the financial obligations of marriage and live within their means? Case Study B: Ted and Jeanne are also beginning married life. They have no carefully worked-out plan of expenditures. Budgeting for them becomes merely a matter of distributing the income to meet obligations which have already been made. Instead of being able to establish a savings account or any other kind of plan for the future, Ted and Jeanne must depend on their ability to borrow money to offset the discrepancies which are bound to arise between income and contracted obligations. What are the pitfalls of this kind of living? The inevitable result of this lack of foresight and planning is disastrous, and it can mean the complete collapse of the family financial structure. Money problems which arise from poor financial management, extravagance, and living beyond one's income are some of the most serious causes of bickering and quarreling in families, sometimes leading even to divorce. 866 When starting a home it is important for husband and wife to plan the goals they wish to attain. Working together to achieve these goals will bring much satisfaction. A clearly defined goal will give to a family the incentive to make financial sacrifices in early years of married life, in order to attain the goals set by them. If young married couples start saving early for a home, they have a much better chance of obtaining that goal, than those who do not plan or work to gain their desires. There is not an "ideal budget" or plan of expenditures for a young married couple or for any individual or group of individuals. Last month's_ discussion attempted to show that each family must think through and develop its own family financial plan in the form of a budget which will set up guidelines to solve its own financial problems. Be wise as a young bride and groom, but also be wise as an established family group. Try to avoid mistakes which can result from lack of foresight and planning. SPECIFIC SAVING PRACTICES There are specific things families may do to facilitate living within a budget. These vary in the various countries. Quantity buying of staples, for example, which is a wise practice in some countries may not be feasible where housing, climate conditions and other factors make storage for any length of time impractical. In the United States, families may make real savings by shopping weekly for the "food leaders" advertised by grocery stores. One gentleman reported saving $300 in one year by following this practice. In the Scandinavian countries, after-season and also after-holiday clothing sales enable families to save on their purchases of clothing. The stores also have furniture and drapery, bedding and "white" sales at certain periods of the year. Wise shoppers will plan to purchase their needs at these times. Small fruits are in abundance and many may be picked in the forests at no cost. Apples are in plentiful supply. Savings can be affected by preserving these fruits and making jams, jellies, and applesauce. THE RETIRED COUPLE Too often we fail to realize that the retired couple are the same two individuals who began the family cycle and that their financial standing is the direct result of what has gone before. Church leaders frequently counLESSON DEPARTMENT sel members to prepare for their old age during their income producing years by saving or investing funds for this particular purpose. If the family financial plan has been carefully worked out and followed, the years of retirement will have been properly and adequately provided for. However, the same general rules also apply, with the proper adjustments and adaptions, in this last stage of the family cycle. People who are in retirement are wise if they follow the same procedures of estimating their income, calculating their fixed expenditures, planning their daily expenses, and using' what extra funds they may have, not for saving for the future, but for enjoying life while they can. None, of this needs to be a burden, for it naturally falls into an easilyfollowed pattern of living. What benefits do the retired couple reap from having a wise financial plan early in life? SEA ETCHING I Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn The sound of waves becomes translated Into ripples, scrolled and fanned, That show the pattern of the tide Clear-etched upon the wet sea sand.