preference to being an unwomanly queen wearing a crown.

See Esther 1. 7. Esther.

An orphan early in life.

Reared in Babylonian captivity, by her father's nephew.

Chosen queen 'because of her beauty.

Obedient still to her foster father.

Saves the king from two traitors.

Plans a fast for her people.

Risks her life to save her people.

Wins out against the arch enemy of the Jews.

Exercises royal power to free the Jews.

She was an ideal Israelite, an ideal woman.

A woman of physical perfection, whose intelligence could be depended upon, whose faith would not weaken, and whose fidelity would never fail.

See Esther 2:8, 9. The leadership of women in the Mosaic Dispensation, as in all previous dispensations, did not include ordination to the Priesthood.

Yet, it was recognized by the Lord in the sending of Miriam to assist in the deliverance of Israel; in the fulfilling of the prophecies of the patriotic prophetess Deborah, and in the honoring of the declarations made in His name by the scholarly prophetess, Huldah.

While the Lord blessed woman's leadership with merit behind it, He did the opposite with that based on meddlesomeness.

Questions and Problems 1. Name at least four women of the Mosaic Dispensation other than those mentioned in this lesson. 2. What is your mental picture of Miriam as the Sentinel on the Nile?

See Ex. 2:4. 3. Quote the women's chorus reply to the singing of the men at the Red Sea. 4. Describe Miriam as you see her at the Red Sea Celebration. 5. In what way is the mistake of Miriam being sometimes repeated in modern Israel? 6. Quote Micah 6:4 as evidence that Miriam was called of God to her mission. 7. Show that women are called in this dispensation and sent of God as was Miriam. 8. What are the proofs that Deborah was inspired by the Lord as Judge of Israel. 9. Relate Huldah's declaration, 2 Kings 22:15-20, and tell what the effects of the declaration were.

See 2 Kings 23:1-17. 10. Where did Esther place her life on the altar for the salvation of her people? 11. Esther requested a general fast by the people.

What does this request say concerning her home training and the customs of the Jews in the home?