[Vol12 | November 1925 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman]

Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman Swiss and German Mission.

The following cordial letter of appreciation and greeting was recently received.

By President Clarissa S. Williams from Mrs. Eliza W. Tadje, president of the Relief Societies of the Swiss-German mission: "I wish herewith, in the name of the members of the Relief Societies of the Swiss and German mission, to express our gratitude for the friendly greetings from you conveyed to us by Miss Alice L. Reynolds, during her visit to our mission.

It was indeed a great joy to us, dear Sister Williams, to know that you think of your far-away sisters; and we wish to assure you that we are striving as best we can to contribute to the success of our great organization, the direction of which rests in your worthy hands.

"It is a great pleasure for us to be able to tell you that the women of this mission recognize your blessed endeavors, as General President of the Church Relief Societies, and we trust that your health shall permit you to stand at the head of this organization for many years to come.

"We send you simultaneously, with sincerest wishes that your endeavors may continue to be crowned with success, the most devoted greetings of all the women of this mission as your faithful co-laborers in the work of the Lord.

"The Relief Society Presidencies in the branches of the Swiss and German Mission in the conferences of Basel, Bern, Zurich, Berlin, Breslau, Chemnitz, Dresden, Frankfurt, Hannover, Hamburg, Koln, Konigsberg, Leipsig, Stettin, Stuttgart, Vienna, (Signed) Margaret Hoyer." Granite Stake.

The Granite stake Relief Society held an elaborate and most successful carnival in each of the nine wards of the stake, simultaneously, on the fifth Tuesday in September, at the regular meeting hour.

The special object of the carnival was: to honor the mothers of the stake; to pay a tribute to motherhood: to create an interest among the young mothers in the Relief Society lesson work which is designed to be especially helpful to young mothers in rearing their children, to stimulate interest generally throughout the stake, and to start out the year's work with enthusiasm. 
 All mothers of each ward were invited to participate, in full, in the carnival, regardless of creed, their names and addresses being furnished by the visiting teachers.

An excellent outlined program with copy of short drama, and suggestions, was sent to the wards several weeks before time for the carnival, in order that there might be adequate preparation.

The program and some of the suggestions follow: MOTHER'S CARNIVAL (To be held in each ward in Granite Stake, September 29, 1925) (Suggestive Program) 2:00 p. M.?Formal reception with ward presidency and visiting General and Stake officers in receiving line.

Soft lullaby music. 2:30 p. M.?Congregational Hymn, "Count Your Blessings." Prayer.

Lullaby Music Short Drama, "Cornelia." Lullaby Music.

Story by ward Literary Class Leader.

Music or Dance Number.

Few remarks on glory of Motherhood and why it should be honored; and announcement of the year's program of Relief Society Work, by Ward Relief Society President.

Presentation of special gifts or prizes by M. I. A. Girls if possible to:. (a) Youngest Mother present. (b) Oldest Mother present. (c) Mother of most sons. (d) Mother of most daughters. - (e) Mothers of twins. (f{) Mothers of triplets. (g) Stake prize for longest membership in Relief Society of any mother present; second, and third prizes for those who have belonged next longest times.

Presentation of gifts to all other mothers present.

Grand March of the Mothers in two's, led by those who have borne the most children, followed by those who have borne the next number, and so on.; Light refreshments served, cafeteria style.

Doxology.

Benediction.

MOTHER'S CARNIVAL (September 29, 1925) Suggestions and Notes Have nothing morbid or sad in the program.

Feature lullaby music and cradle songs.

Use M. I. A. Girls as helpers wherever possible.

Send a gift to all mothers who are detained at home through sickness. 5 During carnival, ward recreation committee might hold a little NOTES FROM THE FIELD 601 children's party in another part of the building.

The stake recreation leader will provide outline for this party. 6. Those who have taken children to rear, though they have not been so blessed as to have children of their own, are honored according to the number they have taken, just as if they had borne them. 7. Gifts.

Have a gift for every mother in the ward, such as: decorated candles, neck-wear, handkerchiefs, aprons, garters, perfumes, talcum, nail files, powder puffs, doilies, towels, useful bags, caps, mats, pictures, scarfs, books, music, beads, candy, etc. 8. Secure the gifts by having some of the articles made during August and September from scraps, under the direction of some capable person; by collecting contributions for purchasing gifts, from members of the Priesthood quorums and all others who will contribute; by having the young ladies of the ward make candy for gifts. 9. The day before carnival, all gifts should be wrapped and numbered.

There should be enough gifts for every mother in the ward to have one.

Keep the prizes separate from the gifts.

Officers can determine before hand how many of these will be needed. 10. All Relief Society officers and visiting teachers should be at Relief Society Hall at 1:45 p. M. Teachers should receive all guests at the door, welcoming those from their own district and seeing that the necessary information is recorded in card index.

A number should be pinned on each mother by her visiting teacher.

This number should not be lost as it entitles her to the gift marked with the same number. 11. The stake will provide each ward, with cards for card index to assist in determining the prize winners.

The stake will send copies of the short drama to all wards; the stake literary leader will assist in selecting and preparing a suitable story, if desired; the stake music department will provide list of suitable musical numbers from which selections may be made.

Gunnison Stake.

On September 4, the Gunnison stake Relief Society gave a social in honor of all local officers and teachers.

An appropriate program was followed by dancing and refreshments, and a very sociable time was enjoyed by about two hundred and fifty people.

Prizes were awarded to wards excelling in the following activities, during the first six months of the year: highest percent of attendance; greatest number of days spent in the temple; highest percent of teachers' visits; highest percent of Relief Society members taking Relief Society Magazine; teacher longest in service, and oldest acting teacher at the present time.

Wards highest in the above first three activities received two Relief Society song books each, and the three latter received one year's subscription to the Relief Society Magazine.

It was found that Mrs. Hannah M. Christensen from the Mayfield ward has been a teacher for the past forty-nine years and: is still active; that Mrs. Elizabeth Anderson from the same ward has acted forty-seven years; and that the oldest acting teacher in the stake is Mgrs.

Sena Larson who is seventy-eight years of age, and never fails to visit her district each month. 
 Teton Stake.

On Friday, August 7, the officers of the Driggs ward Relief Society entertained in honor of the following elderly women of their ward: Ann Mary Hyde, Emily Fairbanks, Francis A. Hopkins, Sarah A. Price, Mary A. Griggs, Margaret E. Crandall, Francis Huff, and Emma McDaniels.

The honored guests were taken for a car ride, after which a delicious luncheon was served in the stake office.

The tables were beautifully decorated with flowers, large bouquets being used as centerpieces and smaller ones as favors.

The time was spent in pleasant social chat and humorous stories, and toasts to the honored guests.

Morgan Stake.

On September 1, at Como Springs, the Morgan stake Relief Society gave a social in honor of the officers and members of the Relief Society, with their husbands.

The stake recreation committee had charge of the program and games and assisted greatly in making the affair a success.

The stake board served refreshments to 150 people.

Northwestern States Mission.

The Relief Society pageant, "The Guardianship of Life," was recently put on in Hall, Montana, to a large and appreciative audience.

The Methodist minister, of Drummond, wrote the Society a very complimentary letter regarding the performance.

An invitation was received later to take the pageant to Philipsburg (thirty miles distant) and put it on in one of their churches there.

The invitation was accepted, but the opera house was used instead of the church because of stake facilities.

Alpine Stake.

The Alpine stake health center committee held eight conferences or clinics during the month of August and early part of September.

Five of these conferences include several wards.

The names of those with defects and the nature of defects was left with each ward Relief Society president.

Realizing that the presidents understand conditions in their wards, they have been appointed assistants to the health center committee that follow-up work may be better looked after.

The health committee with their social service fund assists very materially in the follow-up work.

Great satisfaction is felt in all the communities with the results.

Mindoka Stake.

Early in July the Minidoka stake Relief Society.

Wrote the State Health Department of Idaho requesting them to arrange a date for a clinic to be held in the stake.

The request was readily granted and arrangements were made for a health conference to NOTES ROM THE IIELD 603 be held on one day at Heyburn (August 29), and one day at Minidoka (August 31). The idea of holding the clinics at the two places was to accommodate more people and lessen the distance people would have to travel.

President May Jones, in company with the field nurse, made the preliminary arrangements and on the days appointed, Mrs. Jones, together with her counselors, Zella Smith and Matilda Sanford, did all the weighing and measuring of the children.

There were four pairs of twins examined at the Heyburn conference and a total of 107 mothers and children examined during the two days.

Only three children among those examined were found to be in normal health condition.

Follow-up work will be done in the near future with the return of the field nurse, who will be assisted in the work by the stake Relief Society presidency.

Tooele Stake.

Several of the wards of Tooele stake have conducted health clinics during the summer, and, while the follow-up work has not been so thorough as desired by the stake, a fine beginning has been made and there is hope that the future will see great improvement along this line.

REORGANIZATIONS Benson Stake.

At the quarterly conference of the Benson stake, held in Richmond, July 18-19, president Lucy M. Funk with her counselors and board members were honorably released.

Mrs. Funk has served faithfully and well during her term of office and she and her associates will long be remembered for the excellent work they have accomplished.

At the same meeting the following officers were sustained to take the places of those released: Mrs. Effie A. Greene, president; Mrs. Hilda Roskelley and Mrs. Mable Pond, counselors; Mirs.

Mary B. Timmins, secretary, all of whom bring to the Society a valuable fund of knowledge gained from experience in various phases of church work.

On Wednesday evening, August 5, 1925, the new officers tendered a testimonial social to those retiring.

An interesting program was rendered, after which games and dancing were enjoyed under the direction of the stake recreation committee.

This was followed by a delightful luncheon served cafeteria style.

Mrs. Mable Pond, counselor to the new president, paid a splendid tribute to the retiring officers, some of whom had served for ten years, presenting each with a book, beautifully inscribed, as a lasting token of appreciation for their untiring and faithful service.

Mrs. Funk in a response said that each of those retiring had been deeply touched by the token of respect and declared that the joy of service had amply repaid all for the time and effort expended. 
 Moapa Stake.

The Moapa stake was reorganized August 30, 1925, at the quarterly conference.

Mrs. Lois E. Jones was appointed president to succeed Mrs. Ellen Gentry, who passed away in May, 1925. The following other officers were appointed to serve with Mrs. Jones: Mrs. Viola Earl and Mrs. Lois Wells, counselors; Mrs. Ellen Perkins, secretary-treasurer.

Eastern States Mission.

On September 13, 1925, Miss Pearl Snow was honorably released as president of the Relief Societies of the Eastern States mission.

Miss Snow was an efficient and faithful officer, and gave very valuable service in the interest of the Relief Society during her term of office, but as the time had come for her release from the mission field, a reorganization was necessary. ' Miss Luella B. Owen was appointed president to succeed Miss Snow.

"The world stands out on either side No wider than the heart is wide; Above the world is stretched the sky No higher than the soul is high.

The heart can push the sea and land Farther away on either hand; The soul can split the sky in two And let the face of God shine thorough.

But East and West will pinch the heart That cannot keep them pushed apart; And he whose soul is flat?the sky - Will cave in on him by and by." Guide Lessons for January LESSON J Theology and Testimony THE MOSAIC Dispensation (Continued), Editors' note: You will observe that the lessons for 1926 are in the main a continuation of those of 1925. In other words, the Theology Lessons will be taken from the Old Testament, the Literature Lessons will be American authors, chiefly of recent date.

The Social Service Lesson will be Child Welfare, emphasizing mental hygiene of childhood.

PART II.

WOMEN OF THE DISPENSATION 1. Miriam. (a) Biography.

Her parents were of the tribe of Levi, chosen to officiate in spiritual matters, and after whom the Lesser Priesthood was named.

She was born about three hundred and forty years after the Israelites, consisting of seventy souls, came to Egypt.

A girl not more than eight years of age she acted the part of a sentinel of salvation on the banks of the river Nile.

She married a valiant Israelite named Hur, of the tribe of Judah, who, with Aaron, held up the hands of Moses until Israel prevailed. (Ex. 17:11-12.) That she was a mother in Israel is evident from Ex. 31:2. At the age of eighty-seven, she led the women of Israel in triumphal dance and song, replying to the men who sang the first song of record.

See Ex. 15:1-21. In the wilderness she made one mistake.

See Numbers 12. She died during the latter part of the journey in the wilderness, being about one hundred and twenty-five years of age. (b) Characterization.

In the light of her long and strenuously active life, Miriam must have been a woman of unusual physical make-up.

Intellectually she was a born leader.

Note the adroitness of her question to the Egyptian princess at the bathing place.

The fact of her taking a stand against Moses, in her one mistake, is indicative of a consciousness of mental ability.

In her error, her strength was her weakness.

It was a case of excessive ethical zeal blinding the eyes to spiritual judgment.

She failed to hear the whispering of the spirit which always says, when the tongue would wag against the Lord's Anointed, keep still and wait upon the wisdom of the Lord, who has better ethical eyesight, clearer judgment, than any individual, and more authority than all Israel for dealing with his chosen ones.

In all such cases the attempts at correction by humanity is a reflection on Divinity.

Spiritually, this wonderful women meritoriously gained 
 the title of Prophetess.

See Ex. 15:20. The work she did received the approval of the Lord to the extent that one of the Prophets of Israel places her as one of the deliverers of Israel.

See Micah 6:3, 4. 2. Deborah.

For twenty years Israel had borne the oppression of Jabin, the king of Canaan, as a penalty for their turning away from the Lord.

With broken spirits they cried unto the Lord for deliverance, but it appears that the men of Israel had dwindled in the qualities of leadership.

Patriotism and faith in God was preserved in the character of Deborah.

The people trusted her, and God inspired her.

She was a "Prophetess," and as such directed the campaign that resulted in the deliverance of Israel.

See Judges 4. The event is illustrative of the fact, that when men cannot, or refuse to, lead where leadership is needed, the Lord may make leaders of women.: 3. Jephthah's Daughter.

The historical event that brought this woman into prominence has in it the lesson that the Lord is not pleased with pledges that involve the agency of man.

The manner in which the maiden accepted the result of her father's vow, points not only to most filial love, but a sublime reverence for spiritual obligations.

The granted request for a period of retirement to mourn, not the giving up of life, but the opportunity for perpetuating life is indicative of what the greatest desire of a high grade Israelite maiden was.

See Judges 11:30-40. As to the fulfilling of the vow, we are left to conjecture, but there is a glimmer of light in verse thirty-nine that gives hope, at least, that the Egyptian custom of human sacrifice, which the Lord condemned, did not prevail. 4. Ruth.

She exemplifies loyalty.

The first two elements of loyalty are expressed in Ruth's reply to Naomi.

See Ruth 1:16, 17. The third element of loyalty is found in the care with which Ruth carried out the counsel of Naomi.

See Ruth 3. 5. Huldah.

Living in the college in Jerusalem, she was a prophetess and theological scholar, and she gave the word of the Lord to the King of Judah.

See II Kings 22. 6. Vashti.

Though not an Israelite, she played a noble part in the history of Israel.

Her conduct exemplifies the consistency of limiting the demands of obedience to a husband, to the realm of righteousness.

She chose to be a queenly woman without a crown, in /