The Editor Abroad Alice L. Reynolds]

The Editor Abroad
Egypt
Alice L. Reynolds
A trip of five days from the city of Marseilles brought my traveling companion and me to the city of Alexandria in Egypt. Meeting congenial people is one of the pleasures of travel, so that we were glad to discover, opposite us at our first meal on the steamship Sphinx, Mr. And Mrs. Kenneth Brown of Cambridge, Massachusetts. Mr. Brown, like Miss Elliott and myself, is a teacher; the English department of Harvard University being his place of service. We soon learned that Mr. And Mrs. Brown had in mind visiting the same countries that we expected to visit, so that our lot was happily cast together through the Orient. Long before our ship cast anchor in the harbor of Alexandria, the interest of this strange land had fastened itself upon us. The semi-circular, white city, as we saw it in the distance, nestled under a blue sky with the blue waters of the Mediterranean stretched before it, suddenly became alive with its "turbaned host," its jumble of strange houses, strange vehicles, and strange people with yet stranger languages and stranger cries. The temper of the Orient manifested itself in the small matter of taking our baggage to the customs and to the outgoing train for Cairo. Two men had been detailed to look after us, one from the travel bureau in Alexandria, with which we were connected, the other from the hotel where reservations had been made for us

in Cairo. One was a large, dark-skinned husky; the other, dark also, but of slender build. Both had been told to look after us and both seemed to take their commission most seriously. Instead of talking the matter over and seeing where the mistake occurred, they began fighting for possession. The small man suspecting he would be outmatched by the large one, watched his chance hoping to creep up to the baggage and get it when the other was not looking. On one of these attempted "sneaks" on the part of the small man, they got into a real fight which resulted in the larger gaining control. At the height of the contest, Mrs. Kenneth Brown stepped quickly behind the big burly fellow, saying as she did so, "I know nothing of the 'rights' or 'wrongs' in this matter, but I am going to stay by the big man; he is the best fighter." As we rode along from Alexandria to Cairo the skyline was broken by long stately rows of date palms, and by a moon of extraordinary size. On reaching Cairo we were received at the door of our hotel by a man in an elegant Oriental costume of white and lemon-colored silk, with the appropriate number of spangles and dangles on his headgear. We found our beds completely enveloped in soft, white, double mosquito netting, which
looked regal enough, we thought, to have been the bed of Cleopatra. Still better things awaited us. Egypt retains the past and takes on the present. The next morning, stepping from our room on to a veranda, we were aware that we were on the most important street of Cairo. What we saw was a veritable moving picture; a street pageant whose parts needed only to be closed up a bit to make it one of the most splendid of pageants, and this was the real thing. In all probability the streets of Cairo are the most interesting streets in the world. Here are some of the things to be seen from a veranda or window: women wearing the veil which is usually black, although it is occasionally white, and is held in place by a very large, yellow spool that stretches across the forehead and attaches to the headpiece, holding it in place. The Oriental uses his head (or more frequently it is her head) for whatever is to be carried; consequently, we saw in the group women with water bottles on their heads. Sometimes they carried baskets full of vegetables, and once we saw a woman with a box containing live chickens upon her head. It is customary for women to carry children on their shoulders; indeed, one of the picturesque sights of the Orient is that of a woman carrying a small child upon her shoulder. Jostled together, pedestrians and equestrians alike, we saw, on this same street, donkeys trudging along, bearing sometimes a man in a simple white garment, with the usual headpiece held by a cord, and sometimes a man with an inner and outer garment that suggested a flowing robe. The camel with his stately stride, his head held high and his long neck decorated with strands of blue beads to keep away the evil eye, always attracts attention. Every conceivable sort of vehicle may be seen, from a rumbling old wagon to an up-to-date automobile. Now and again one sees a type of carriage that suggests the elegance of the past, carrying a woman in a white gown, profusely decorated with gold and silver ornaments. Our guess was that she was an Egyptian bride, although, through our American eyes, she looked very much like a person dressed for a fourth of July pageant. Yet this street was to take on a much more colorful appearance later in the day. A very short distance from our hotel was Shepherd's

hotel; the haunt of the fashionable tourist. In front of this. Hotel, particularly during the season, the guides, who seem to have adopted the stock name of "Moses," congregate. Their garments attract a good deal of attention as they are usually of very brilliant colors. Blue seemed to be a favorite color with them: whether it is worn by them as by the camels to keep the evil eye away we did not learn. These guides had as a rule both the inner and outer garment, and wore upon their heads the red cap with the black tassel, prevalent in Mohammedan countries?the hat that marks the man of the east for Americans. We include a description of the costume of our guide because he was exceptionally well dressed. His outer garment was of broadcloth, mustard-color; his inner garment was of silk, with a golden brown pin stripe upon a creamy background. A girdle of crushed silk, that harmonized with the robe, held the inner garment at the waist. About his neck he wore a scarf of Damascus silk, having a wine-colored-background and a border of green and silver stripes. The fringe, elaborate in character, was of black tied with silver. The red cap, with the black tassel common to his country, blended into the colors of his costume, making it harmonious and unusually effective. He was a very intelligent young man speaking English with scarcely an accent. His people came from Sudan. The English people, in Egypt, say the inhabitants of Sudan are to be preferred to the Egyptians; our guide would seem to bear out this contention. He was in all probability a Mohammedan, as he reacted very quickly in one of the mosques when a tourist, no doubt striving to be witty, asked if the camels were allowed within the mosques. On the instant, our guide replied, "Yes, and the donkeys also." Still not all the interesting sights were to be seen on this street of well known hotels. One of the strangest sights in Egypt is that of the water carrier, bending low under the burden of a goat skin full of water thrown across his back. This sight may be seen on the side streets at most any time. When we visited the graves of the Mamelukes we saw a man pouring water from the neck of a goat skin on the lawn. Then, too, the vendors of all sorts, so characteristic of Eastern and Italian life, lend color and motion to the scene, as well as a
good deal of noise by their varied cries. We could not make our way along the street without being stopped by boys, with brush in hand, perchance at the entrance to a mosque, in front of the king's palace, or the great museum, who told us of the dust upon our shoes. These vendors carry many things upon their shoulders which they offer for sale. In fact, anything from an armful of Oriental rugs to a small boxful of green and brown beetles which they declare are genuine scarabs, although it is generally known that they are manufactured. Beads are always in evidence, although the mummy beads are perhaps most frequently offered to tourists.

The bazaars of Cairo are interesting. There, in the midst of dirt and dust, and sometimes ragged denizens of the street, one sees shops displaying most attractive wares: charming necklaces, bracelets, scarfs of gold and silver sheen, as well as many lovely bronzes. / The camel is the great carry-all of this part of the country. Practically all people know how useful it is upon the desert, while not so many people are acquainted with its great usefulness in the inhabited parts. If a young woman is married, the wedding train may consist of the bride mounted upon a camel, followed by more camels loaded with the furniture she will place in her home. Camels take the place of the moving van in the east: we were told that even so bulky a piece of furniture as a piano is sometimes strapped to a camel's back. On the country roads they are sometimes seen carrying boxes of live chickens, great bundles of cotton, hay, boxes of oranges, in fact anything and everything that needs to be carried. Intermingled with all these things that are so typically Oriental, one sees the electric tram, the railroad train, perchance the latest make of automobile, and over and above all, he hears the whir of the aeroplane. Egypt owes its past, stretching far into the centuries behind us, as also its present, to the Nile river. This great river is reached in a few minutes from Cairo, either by a tram car or an automobile. On reaching it one's attention may be drawn to many things: our party took delight in the picturesque sail boats that still ply its waters, and in the flowers that we found in full bloom in the month of February. Modern means of transportation brings the great pyramids very close to the city of Cairo. On our way to the pyramids we past villages whose mud dwellings would look familiar to Joseph or Moses, so the historian tells us. These monuments of stone have excited admiration and wonder throughout the centuries, and it is fairly safe to say that they will continue to do so as long as they grace the earth. As the sun sank behind them into the desert, and as the moon cast its mellow light upon them, there came to us thoughts of the days when the Patriarchs Abraham and Joseph knew them.
It is a fact worthy of note that many of the most "noteworthy architectural developments of the world take their origin from the cult of the dead. Of all the mighty Pharaohs who ruled in Egypt, only one has left us a fragment of his palace, but scarce one was so careless of his mortal remains that his tomb is not preserved to this day. Nay, more, we have tombs of every class?tombs of personages from the humblest to the most exalted, and we can trace step by step their evolution from the simple 'mound of sand to the mighty pyramid?the most colossal of all human buildings." (This paragraph is taken from Mr. H. H. Powers' book on Egypt.) The largest of these pyramids is the great pyramid of Cheops, covering thirteen acres. A stone's throw from this great pyramid, one finds golf links, and close to it, in another direction, excavations are being carried on by Harvard University. At no great distance from this mighty pyramid is the Sphinx. Just what this mysterious Sphinx represents has been a matter of constant controversy, and opinions still remain so varied as to its origin that they are not worthy of quoting in this article. However, we cannot pass it by without one observation which touches once again the destructiveness of war. It is a regretable fact that Napoleon's soldiers, while in Egypt, levelled their guns at the nose of this mighty monument, that had stood through the ages, and partly destroyed it. We now turn for a few moments to the city of Cairo, which

was a rival of both Bagdad and Damascus at the time when Moslem culture and Arab splendor covered that part of the world. It was during this period that the mosques of Cairo were built, and the tombs of the caliphs. It is evident that the architecture of the mosque follows the architecture of the Christian east, resembling churches to be found in Russia, Constantinople, and even the well-known Church of St. Marks in Venice. It is different from them in that it adds the minaret which is said to be the only contribution that the Moslem world has made to architecture. One of the finest mosques in the city of Cairo is the mosque of Sultan Hasan. The minarets of Cairo are different from the minarets of Constantinople, which were built at a later period. They are elaborate in form and produce a distinctively picturesque quality that characterizes the Orient. The Arab has always had a mania for covering his architecture with patterns. In order to distinguish Arab decorations from other decorations, they are spoken of as Arabesque. The mosque of Sultan Hasan is the grandest of all the mosques of Cairo, but the tomb of Kait Bey is the most exquisite of all the mosques. The dome and minaret of this mosque are exceptionally fine examples of the Arabesque
decorations. Every mosque has its prayer niche on the pillared side, and the ablution fountain in the center which the Mohammedan uses freely before he goes in to pray. In the mosque of el-Azhar is the University of Cairo, the largest Moslem institution in the world. It was built in the tenth century and is exceedingly large, following the usual plan of an open court with covered colonades along the sides. In the covered part, which is ten colonades deep, sit the students, ranging from little children to gray-haired men, all swaying to and. Fro as they strive to commit to memory the words of the Koran, or seek to understand the explanations made by their teachers who sit garbed in flowing robes, with turbans upon their heads. Without a doubt the most attractive modern building in Cairo, and for that matter, most likely in all Egypt, is the great museum. This museum has been very properly characterized "an epitome of ancient Egypt." In it one finds at the present time beautiful alabaster vases that have been taken from King Tuthankhamen's tomb, as well as many other articles of interest. Everywhere one sees the elaborately decorated sarcophagus of the mummy with a mummy inside. Sometimes, these mummies have gold rings upon their fingers. Very early in the visit to the museum one encounters long shelves covered with black cats that at a distance would deceive the spectator and lead him to believe that they had just perched themselves upon the shelves for inspection, were it not for the fact that they are so deathly still. Nearby these shelves of black cats are shelves of dogs, and in other parts of the museum one may see mummies of crocodiles and of the Sacred Bull. It is impossible when looking at the Sacred Bull not to be reminded of the custom that was in the minds of the children of Israel when they fashioned in the desert a golden calf at the time when Moses, their leader, was in communication with the Lord of Hosts. Egypt is an intensely interesting country, not alone because of the great variety of scenes that present themselves on every side, but because it is the pathway of civilization for many centuries. "Truth shall spring forth from the earth." Practically every day something is being extracted from the sands of Egypt, revealing the splendor of other days. In no other Country could the mummies of men and animals have been preserved as in this land where the Nile has been the source of its vegetation, its luxuriant trees and beautiful flowers, but behind which are countless acres of sunburned sand.