[Vol31 | September 1944 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Luacine Savage Lyman]

This will happen when Jesus comes again to establish his millennial kingdom, to bring about the resurrection and judgment of all men. Luacine Savage Clark President Amy Brown Lyman THE Relief Society has lost a staunch and faithful friend and an active and valued worker in the death of Luacine Savage Clark, wife of Elder J. Reuben Clark, Jr., first counselor in the First Presidency of the Church and former ambassador to Mexico. Sister Clark passed away at her home in Salt Lake City in the early dawn of August 2, 1944, surrounded by the members of her family?her husband, three daughters, and one son, who had tenderly and lovingly ministered to her during the many weeks of her illness. The prayer of her sister workers in Relief Society is that the peace of heaven may come into the hearts of her husband, children, and other loved ones, tempering their sorrow and helping them to find reconciliation. Sister Clark was a daughter of Charles R. And Annie Adkins Savage.
From these pioneer parents, natives of England who came to Utah in early days, she received a rich heritage in her many fine attributes of heart and mind. Her father was Utah's pioneer photographer and art dealer, and founder of the annual Old Folks' Day. Her mother, while caring for her home and eleven children, found time to be helpful to her Church, to entertain many friends in her hospitable home, and to be a good neighbor to the needy and sorrowing. Sister Clark was well known for her fine abilities and able leadership.
Whether acting as hostess in the LUACINE SAVAGE CLARK ambassadorial mansion in Mexico City or as Relief Society stake president, theology class leader, or visiting teacher, she was equally at home. She was an asset to both her Church and community. A faithful, consistent Latter-day Saint, she gave freely of her time and talents to whatever task was assigned her, whether it was working in an auxiliary organization or contributing as a writer to a Church periodical. Relief Society work was one of her major interests from the age of eighteen. She has served the Society faithfully and efficiently in various capacities.

M.C.S. Luacine Savage Clark (Continued from page 487) Elder Ivor Sharp, is today associate editor of The Relief Society Magazine.
Temple work and genealogy have also claimed the time and attention of Sister Clark. She was a member of Friendship Circle, the Daughters of the Utah Pioneers, and a Bible study class. Sister Clark was a gracious and charming hostess and was never happier than when extending hospitality to friends in her artistic home. For her lovely character, her exemplary life, her generous nature and artistic ability, Luacine Savage Clark will long be loved and remembered.
