[Vol31 | September 1944 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Article | Title: Visiting Teachers]

Visiting Teachers Messages Sources of Strength?The Beatitudes Lesson 3?Blessed Are the Meek For Tuesday, December 5, 1944
Blessed are the meek: for they shall inherit the earth (Matt. 5:5). Objective: To show that meekness is a heroic quality which, if exercised in one's relationships with God and man, entitles him to choice blessings. MEEKNESS is not the sign of a craven; contrition is not cowardice. On the contrary, meekness is teachableness, a mark of greatness. It stands in sharp contrast to arrogance. The man who is inflated with vanity, puffed with pride, filled with self-conceit, who exalts himself, is not in a proper attitude of mind to be taught; he is not meek. Meekness carries with it long-suffering, forbearance and gentleness. "Genuine meekness is the enforced calm which a strong nature commands and produces by saying to its own tempestuous passions, 'Peace, be still.' It is the fruit of resolute control, of stormy and dangerous emotions, the final result of a grand sovereignty over all the hot and rebellious forces that often rage in a strong and earnest nature." Meekness is best shown in the absolute self-control of a strong and impetuous character. Moses was one of the strong men of the earth; he had the courage and fortitude of a hero, yet he was a meek man. We read in Numbers 12:3: "Now the man Moses was very meek, above all the men which were upon the face of the earth." Moses did a marvelous: work for his whole nation, getting it out of Egyptian bondage in the face of incredible difficulties, and influencing the whole subsequent course of history by his teaching and his deeds. Moses had an open mind, ready to be taught new things.... He did not reject fresh revelation because it was novel.... He was not, in the beginning at least, free from faults of character, but he was too big for intellectual and spiritual pride. By the steady control of his strong nature and by his teachableness, he won a just reputation for meekness. The Savior declared himself to be meek. In Matthew 11:20, he said: "Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me; for I am meek and lowly in heart: and ye shall find rest unto your souls." The meek shall inherit the earth because they are wise enough to live right, teachable enough to learn the laws by which the earth is inherited, and, above all, strong enough to abide by those laws. By being receptive to the will of our Father in heaven, we, his children, become heirs to all that is good upon the face of the earth. 1/Fox, Emmet, The Sermon on the Mount, pages 31-32.