[Vol31 | September 1944 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: I Will Look Unto the Leitner]
"...  Look  unto  God  with  firmness  of  mind,  and  pray  unto  him  with  exceeding 
faith,  and  he  will  console  you  in  your  afflictions"  (Jacob  3:1). 
12.  Benediction   Relief  Society  Officer  or  Member

520 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— SEPTEMBER  1944 
Suggestions  for  Music 
Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  might 
appropriately  present  selections  from  the 
following  list,  or  others  suitable  for  the 
occasion  and  the  theme  might  be  given. 
Songs 
"For  the  Strength  of  the  Hills"  {Reliei 
Society  Song  Book,  either  page  lo  or  iii.) 
or  111.) 
"Come,  Thou  Glorious  Day  of  Promise" 
{Reliei  Society  Song  Book,  page  52.) 
"Our  Father  in  Heaven,  Thy  Praises  We 
Sing"  {Relief  Society  Song  Book,  page 
120.) 
"Sweet  Is  the  Work"  (Reifef  Society 
Song  Book,  page  33.) 
"The  Work  We're  Called  to  Do"  {Re- 
liei Society  Song  Book,  page  80.) 
"Prayer  for  Service"  by  Gaul  (Three 
part  chorus  for  women's  voices,  published 
by  Flammer,  N.Y.) 
Humming  ioi  Scriptural  Reading  oi 
Psalm  46 
"My  Prayer"  {Reliei  Society  Song  Book, 
page  35.) 
"Hear  Us  Pray"  (Relief  Society  Song 
Book,  page  25.) 
"Jesus,  Savior,  Pilot  Me"  (Deseret  Sun- 
day School  Song  Book,  page  141.) 
Humming  for  Final  Scriptural 
Reading 
"Nearer  Dear  Savior  to  Thee"  (Des- 
eret Sunday  School  Song  Book,  page  70.) 
"The  Lord  Is  My  Shepherd"  {Reliei 
Society  Song  Book,  page  29.) 
"Peace  I  Leave  With  You" — Roberts, 
(Three-part  chorus  for  women,  published 
by  G.  Schirmer.) 
Suggestions  for  Talk,  ''Live  up  to 
Your  Privileges,"  by  Stake  Board 
Member 
A.  Power  Through  Co-operation 
"By  union  of  feeling  we  obtain  power 
with  God." — Joseph  Smith. 
Latter-day  Saint  women  desire  to  in- 
crease their  power  to  do  good  and  to 
wield  greater  influence  in  the  world.  Af- 
filiation  with  the  Relief  Society  provides 
an  opportunity  for  both  development  and 
service.  "In  union  there  is  strength." 
Compare  individual  effort  with  group  ef 
fort.  Individual  accomplishment  is  mag 
nified  through  organization.  Not  only  do 
Relief  Society  women  gain  power  in  their 
ability  to  do  things  by  serving  in  this  So 
ciety,  but  they  also  gain  greater  spiritual 
power.  "Where  two  or  three  are  gathered 
together  in  my  name,  .  .  .  behold,  there 
will  I  be  in  the  midst  of  them"  (Doc.  & 
Gov.  6:32).  "All  victory  and  glory  is 
brought  to  pass  unto  you  through  your  dil 
igence,  faithfulness,  and  prayers  of  faith" 
(Doc.  &  Gov.  103:36). 
See  also  Gospel  Doctrine,  p.  443,  para- 
graph 2;  GospeJ  Standards,  p.  183,  para- 
graph 3. 
B.  Growth  Through  Knowledge 
The  Lord  has  said,  "...  treasure  up  in 
your  minds  continually  the  words  of  life" 
(Doc.  &  Gov.  84:85).  The  words  of  life 
are  the  everlasting  gospel  and  the  truths 
of  this  world.  This  is  the  knowledge  that 
will  last  far  beyond  the  grave  and  provide 
us  with  life  everlasting,  if  we  abide  by  the 
principles.  Well  might  we  ask  with  the 
Psalmist: 
"So  teach  us  to  number  our  days, 
"That  we  may  apply  our  hearts  unto 
wisdom"    (Psalm  90:12). 
"The  artist  in  living  must  never  stop 
learning.  You  cannot  coast  through  life 
on  the  momentum  of  a  high  school  or  ev- 
en a  college  education.  Life  teaches  us 
much,  but  we  must  learn  and  learn  and 
learn.  To  stop,  even  for  a  moment,  in  the 
pursuit  of  knowledge  is  to  bring  mental 
death  closer. 
"Never  before  has  life  been  so  eminent- 
ly worth  living,  and  never  before  so  thrill- 
ing. The  morning  newspaper  and  the 
monthly  magazine  are  veritable  store- 
houses of  challenges  and  stimuli.  Never 
before  have  there  been  so  many  profound- 
ly important  causes  crying  for  intelligent 
social  cooperation." — Wolfe,  W.  Reran. 
"Don't  Wait  to  Live,"  The  Reader's  Di- 
gest, June  1944. 
See  also  Doc.  &  Gov.  Sec.  130:19;  Sec. 
131:6. 
C.  Satisfaction  Through  Service 
"To  find  happiness  we  must  seek  for  it

NOTES  TO  THE  FIELD 
521 
in  a  focus  outside  ourselves.  If  you  live 
only  for  yourself  you  are  always  in  immedi- 
ate danger  of  being  bored  to  death  with 
the  repetition  of  your  own  views  and  in- 
terests, .  .  .  Choose  a  movement  that  rep- 
resents a  distinct  trend  toward  greater  hu- 
man happiness  and  align  yourself  with  it. 
No  one  has  learned  the  meaning  of  living 
until  he  has  surrendered  his  ego  to  the 
service  of  his  fellowmen." — Ihid. 
The  need  to  serve  was  never  greater 
than  at  the  present  time.  Women  need 
to  find  a  "focus  outside  themselves,"  to 
forget  their  own  anxieties  and  fears,  A 
new  understanding  and  recognition  of 
neighborliness  needs  to  prevail  in  our 
communities.  All  need  to  look  around 
and  rediscover  again  the  value  of  offering 
themselves  for  the  good  of  others.  The 
kindly  visit,  the  thoughtful  deed,  the 
needed  praise  to  the  timid — these  are  the 
things  for  which  all  hunger.  Through 
such  things  women  find  satisfaction  and 
happiness  in  life. 
See  also  Gospel  Standards,  p.  183,  para- 
graph 5;  p.  185,  paragraph  4;  p.  186,  para- 
graph 5;  p.  187. 
Additional  References  from  Relief 
Society  Magazine 
"The  Joy  of  Progression,"  Leah  D. 
Widtsoe,  March  1942,  pp.  177-182;  "Un- 
der Divine  Charter,"  Leo  J.  Muir,  August 
1942,  pp.  519-523;  "Compassionate  Serv- 
ice," Elder  George  Albert  Smith,  March 
1943,  pp.  153-157. 
i/ionthiy  ^Preparation    1 1  ieeting  CJor  W/ard 
irieuef  Society  (cyfficers 
\  MONTHLY  preparation  meet- 
ing for  ward  Relief  Society  of- 
ficers, special  workers,  and  class  lead- 
ers was  recommended  by  the  Gen- 
eral Board  in  Bulletin  24,  dated  Feb- 
ruary 19,  1942.  Subsequent  reports 
have  indicated  that  these  meetings 
have  not  yet  become  well  estab- 
lished in  many  wards,  and  therefore 
the  following  suggestions  are  issued 
by  the  General  Board  as  a  means  of 
emphasizing  the  importance  of  this 
meeting  and  aiding  ward  Relief  So- 
ciety officers  in  the  conduct  of  such 
meetings. 
Purpose  oi  Piepamtion  Meeting 
The  purpose  of  this  meeting  is  to 
give  ward  Relief  Society  officers  an 
opportunity  to  present  for  the  infor- 
mation and  consideration  of  the 
group  any  messages  and  instructions 
received  from  the  stake  board  or  the 
'^'^neral   Board,  and  any  plans  or 
problems  of  the  ward  officers  relat- 
ing to  the  ward  Relief  Society  which 
may  properly  come  before  such  a 
meeting.  Such  a  ward  preparation 
meeting,  attended  by  all  officers, 
special  workers,  and  class  leaders 
promotes  a  spirit  of  co-operation  and 
a  feeling  of  joint  responsibility  for 
the  success  of  the  ward  Relief  So- 
ciety; it  creates  general  understand- 
ing and  support  of  all  workers  for 
the  Relief  Society  program  as  a 
whole,  and  for  the  special  assign- 
ment of  each  individual  worker. 
Frequency  of  Meeting 
It  is  suggested  that  the  monthly 
preparation  meeting  be  held  during 
the  period  September  through  April 
and  dispensed  with  during  the 
months  May  through  August,  unless 
special  business  makes  it  advisable 
to  call  one  or  more  meetings  during 
the  summer.     It  is  also    suggested