OPENING THE GATE 191 will and achieve what she is fitted for. In 1820 women were goods and chattels in the eyes of the law, men owned their women and their children, as they did their cattle and their houses, and a woman could not make a will nor deed away her property. She could not use her own earnings without the consent of her husband, or her guardian, while he could seize her earnings or her property, do what he pleased with them, even to squandering them upon his mistress. He could whip her, if he did not injure her body, and could dispose of her as he saw fit. He could secure a divorce at any time, but she could not secure a divorce with any plea whatsoever. Today women and men at last stand equal before the law in this country and in many parts of Europe. How strange that this should be the opening year of civil equality of women with men in this land of Zion, the United States of America. The Suffrage Jubilee celebration in Chicago also marks the fiftieth anniversary of the granting of civil equality to the women of this Church. The Gate Beautiful opening into the higher courts of achievement and development for women will not close again, on this earth, nor in the endless ages of eternity. The sons of mothers and husbands of wives have suffered during the long, dark ages, because, when woman is oppressed and children are neglected, or given false standards or morals of life, men are debased and enslaved. With our faces to the rising sun. we offer our sacrifice of joy and thanksgiving at this Paschal season, in commemoration of the hundredth anniversary of the Vision, in the Grove at Palmyra, to the Prophet Joseph Smith. A SENTIMENT. Julia P. M. Farnsworth One hundred years ago, the world was on the threshold of a new era. This had been in course of preparation all through the ages. A government, inspired by God, had been established, which gave to men, political freedom, but there was still a feeling that "the great ocean of Truth lay all undiscovered." The wonderful Vision of the boy prophet, Joseph Smith, on that spring day in 1820, was the dawning of the Light which was to shed its rays over the whole earth and point the way to Eternal Truth, making clear the problem of existence, giving to life its real meaning and sublimity. It glorified motherhood, and gave to woman a place she had never known before in the sphere of education, ethics, and social democracy, making of patriotism a sacred duty. The establishment of the gospel in its fulness, in response 
 to the promise of that first Vision, instituted the most perfect educational system the world had ever known, and opened wide the door of opportunity to woman, calling her to be the co-worker with man in God's cause upon earth, enduring its trials but sharing its triumphs. April, 1920. THE RAYS OF SCIENCE IN THE HOME. Amy Lyman Merrill, Superintendent Practice Home, Utah Agricultural College. The glorious light that appeared on earth in 1820 shed its rays in all directions. The whole world has felt its sweet, comforting, and powerful influence. Science in its numerous aspects has been influenced profoundly. The hidden laws of nature have been discovered and all mankind has enjoyed the resulting benefits. Woman's work and home problems have been illuminated by the rays of science the past hundred years just as truly as have man's work and problems. And that is proper, for God designed woman as the partner, not the servant, of man. Prior to the appearance of the redeeming light of the gospel women were considered to be on a plane inferior to that of man and were so treated. This condition still prevails most among the peoples of the world least affected by the gospel light. Consider the results of the penetrating rays of science upon women and the home since that light appeared. The doors of colleges and universities have been opened to them;  they have delved into the scientific problems of the home and have solved many of them;  the proper training of their children has been carefully studied;  the health of the family and the proper sanitation of the home have received attention;  what to eat and how to prepare it are now known better than ever before;  labor saving devices for the home have been invented in great numbers;  home comforts and conveniences have battled with home drudgery and have won;  and finally on every hand in the homes throughout the land are seen growing joys and greater appreciation of the dignity and importance of woman's work in the world. Because of the great light that appeared a century ago intelligence now walks upright where ignorance crawled before. And the womanhood of the world is correspondingly blessed. "Out of the darkness of the night, The world rolled into light. It is daybreak everywhere."