The Relief Society Magazine - July 1968, Vol. 55, No. 7

Axe at the Root Margery S. Stewart They built a country with logs, The kind that grow in forests So untouched that only wild things Pathed there. The logs went into houses For people to be born in And die in. In between these events they Cut down more logs For schoolhouses, say Or meetinghouses, say Or townhalls, say.... They learned to read and Write in the schoolhouses On the log benches. This country went to church On Sundays, To log churches, To log benches And trembled at the thought of God's wrath. The trembling made them clean And gave them wisdom. Then the log hewers And the log builders And the log sitters Went home to their milk and bread Suppers, and planned for their children What they would build for them.

The Cover: Majestic Peaks of the Colorado Rockies Transparency by Hal Rumel Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press

Frontispiece: Cabin in Salt Creek Canyon, Utah Photograph by Lucien Bown

Art Layout: Dick Scopes

Illustrations: Mary Scopes

From Near and Far

When I arose this morning, I saw the beautiful April Magazine lying on the table in the sunlight. The "Symphony of Blossoms" is lovely on the cover (transparency by Camera Clix). The frontispiece photograph ("Nest in the Blossoms," Luoma Photos) and the poem "Love Comes on Little Wings" are a delight. I particularly liked the editorial "On Graciousness," by Marianne C. Sharp. We could all use more of graciousness.

Elizabeth C. McCrimmon Long Beach, California

I have been meaning to write sooner to let you know how much I enjoy the Magazine, but I am like most people, I put off writing the words of appreciation. I have a serious heart condition, and my sweet daughter, Mrs. Sheryn Beck, prescribed the Magazine for me. I receive it every month and read every page. I keep all the Magazines, and eventually present them to the hospital here.

Mrs. Roy Green Sparks, Nevada

Please accept my thanks for publishing my articles and stories in The Relief Society Magazine. Because I teach school during the day, I do not have the opportunity of going to Relief Society, but our wonderful Magazine brings to me each month so much that is good and beautiful in each one of the inspirational lessons that I feel grateful for this priceless publication. And the editorials have no peers.

Sylvia Probst Young Midvale, Utah

Having been a subscriber to The Relief Society Magazine for about twenty years, I have found many thoughtful and rewarding hours reading the splendid material. I have always felt that the Magazine is read more thoroughly than any other magazine in the Church.

Mildred N. Israelsen Logan, Utah

Out here in the mission field, we hold precious every part of the gospel. The Relief Society Magazine is like a beacon light to us. It gives us strength to hold fast to the gospel. It is our lifeline with Zion.

Loretta A. Barlow Bay City, Texas

The article describing the Homemaking Department at Relief Society Annual General Conference (by Edythe K. Watson, March 1968) is an impelling incentive to more gracious homemaking. The pictures are tempting. We have always been a people with a desire to restore and preserve anything lovely, praiseworthy, or of precious value. Here we are again, reclaiming treasures from the past to enhance the beauty of today's handiwork.

Wanda Rhodes Logan, Utah

Thanks for the thrill of seeing my story in print ("A Summer's Day," March 1968), and I thank Mary Scopes for her lovely illustration.

Ruth Pepper Corrimal East, N. S. W. Australia

How can I express my love for The Relief Society Magazine? It has added so much to my life. Each article, poem, and story has its own special effect.

Elma C. Palmer Tiffany, Colorado

I enjoyed the story by Janice T. Dixon "Say Peanut Butter," in the May issue of the Magazine. It was interesting in looking over the Magazine Honor Roll to see how many readers the Magazine has now imagine, the Magazine in 271,400 homes.

Frances C. Yost Bancroft, Idaho

I must tell you that I made two gingerbread houses from the recipe in the December Magazine (by Berta Mae Peek). I gave one to some little friends of mine and the other to my own children. All were delighted. I was surprised to find how easy it was to make the houses and how beautiful they were. I am planning to make more cakes next year.

June Erskine Booth Ames, Iowa

482

The Relief Society Magazine

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1968 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

=== ADVERTISEMENTS (from Birthday Congratulations) ===
$9.95 An expanded and more in-depth treatment of the significance of Missouri in Church history, and an analysis of the role it has yet to play. This fascinating work by the newest member of the First Presidency will make important reading for the summer months, and will always be a valuable reference work for your LDS home library. For the student or general traveler this book is an essential guide to sites of importance in the Missouri area. Includes numerous color photos, and an account of President McKay's visit to Missouri in 1966. FOR ADULTS ONLY A lifetime of learning by R. Wayne Shute $3.50 This thoughtful and stimulating work by a BYU professor and Education Week specialist reveals a new horizon of possibilities available to all of us in the field of adult education. The author draws on his extensive experience in adult education to examine the skills of learning as applied to adults — showing that it is never too late to learn and that all forms of adult education can enrich you spiritually, emotionally, and materially. EE Ss = S= a =, Deseret Book Company — = a 44 East So. Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 Deseret Book or 777 So. Main St., Orange, California 92668 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 7717 SO MAIN ST.. ORANGE, CALIFORNIA Please send me [_] THE REFINER'S FIRE [_] FOR ADULTS ONLY Paid by check I Money order [J Or, please charge my established account [] Put the magic of > Sugarplum Land BERRY JAM 5 cups U and I Sugar 412 cups crushed berries, fresh or thawed frozen (3 12-0z. Packages) 2 Tablespoons lemon juice 1 bottle liquid fruit pectin Measure sugar into a large bowl, add crushed berries and lemon juice. Let stand 20 minutes, stirring occasionally to dissolve sugar. Add liquid pectin and stir thoroughly. Pack into freezer container, cover, and let stand 24 hours. Store in freezer, or this jam will keep in the refrigerator for two weeks. This makes about 2 quarts of jam. Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah in your meals suggests this delicious, easy to make Jam for a real family taste treat. Where is Sugarplum Land? It's all around you if you live where sugarbeets are grown. U and