[Vol49 | February 1962 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Fiction | Title: The]
[The Houdinattie Mary hale Woolsey]

"Well, why can't I?" she mused. "After all, I'm not going to let this old blue gingham dress spoil my fun." Becky's frown changed to a radiant smile, and soon she, too, was swaying happily to the music in her modest blue gingham dress. 'Then Mike Anders asked her to dance, and for a moment she felt her smile fade, and anxiety set in. However, THE BLUE GINGHAM DRESS in the presence of Mike, her skepticism soon vanished, and once more she was caught up in the magic of the evening that had prevailed before Mike had asked her to dance. Twenty-year-old Becky had wanted to meet Mike Anders since he had moved to Pleasant City a year ago. His tall good looks had appealed to her since the first time that she had seen him. Becky danced as she had never danced before, and her young heart was full of the wonder of life and the goodness that it had to offer, if one only bothered to look for it. When Mike asked to take Becky home from the dance, her evening was complete. OK OE ECKyY shut the lid on the trunk down and slid it back in place. "It's time to start dinner now, Kay. Your father will soon be home, and he'll be hungry." "My, how we've changed over the years," Becky teased Mike at dinner that night. "And you're even more handsome now, Mr. Anders." "I guess that's my cue to tell. You that you're even more beautiful than when I married you, Mrs. Anders." Mike winked at Becky. Becky had matured into a beauttful, gentle woman, happy with her husband and family. She could never cease to wonder that God should bestow so many blessings upon her. Each moment of her life became a treasured and happy segment that added together into a glorious existence. After dinner, when the dishes were done and Kav was in bed, Becky and Mike were sitting out on the porch in their favorite spot, 101 the porch swing. The aroma of honeysuckle filled the air, and the crickets in the distance sang their enchanting song to the night. Becky felt calm and relaxed and totally at peace with the world. Mike has done this for me, she thought to herself. It was then that Becky casually mentioned the blue gingham dress to Mike. He seemed somewhat surprised. "I didn't know that you were wearing a blue gingham dress that night." "You didn't!" It was Becky's turn to be surprised. "I thought that everyone noticed the dress that I was wearing that night." "Of course I noticed that you were neat and modestly dressed, but I was too dazzled by the shining radiance of your face to notice what the dress was like that you were wearing.' Mike was serious as he took Becky's hand. Becky was startled and then she laughed. "After all the worrying I did about that dress. I thought that everyone would notice that it was made over, and how shabby I looked at the side of all the other girls in their new dresses." "Let that be a lesson to you, Mrs. Anders," Mike added. "It is the way a person is on the inside that determines whether she is beautiful or not." "That it is, Mike," Becky agreed, "but still, I think that someday il get Kay a blue gingham dress." Mike laughed. "Well, if you must, but just promise me that you wont until she is about say — twenty?" Becky laughed, too. She said. "T promise," Make Gi Out of Ymagination Sylvia W. Dixon OW long has it been since you took time truly to anticipate something? Close your eyes a moment and let yourself drift into the enchanting world you knew as a child. Remember the wonderful expectancy of everything — the Shiny new shoes that you would wear with pride to Sunday School — the tantalizing taste of that last piece of cake that might be yours after the company departed — the marvelous torture of waiting for Christmas? Recapture the wanting you knew as a child — the unmatched desire of wanting to make something for Mother, some wonderful thing she would lovingly display and, then, though everyone else was there, her eyes would hold for you alone that loving ""Thankyou" look that means so much to us all. Now we are ready to use what my Mother called "Make-it-out-of-imagination." Perhaps it was pioneer austerity that started it, the severe simplicity of the times she grew up in, but she believed anything could be made from something — and do you know — it can! Walk with me through your home swinging your mental searchlight into every corner. Ask yourself, "What makes beauty?" Is it the slender liquid gracefulness of a taper in a crystal candlestick? Well, you can't blow glass, but wait, you can put together things that will add up to the same graceful effect. Start by turning things upside down, dishes, bud vases, the shiny collar that fits around a pipe as it enters Page 102 the wall. Experiment. It's fun — it's therapeutic — and can be profitable when making gifts or decorative objects for the home. All worthwhile things are the result of knowledge, plus effort, plus talent. We must also add accident, plus inspiration, for many of the things we value most are the product of someone's imagination and inspiration after an accident or unintended turn of events in some process. 'To make things that will satisfy you and not just waste your time, you must deliberately hunt for inspiration. OST of us have one or two sherbets left from a set or some odd glass coasters, maybe a tall crystal saltshaker, the top of which is dented. Take the top off, and see how lovely violets look in this tiny slender vase. Or place the salt shaker on the turned-over glass coaster (Figure 1). Figure 1 CANDLESTICK made from a salt shaker MAKE IT OUT OF IMAGINATION My glass coasters were edged in filigree silver and dear to me because they were among my parents' wedding gifts, but the crystal bases in them were cracked. The salt shaker hid the cracks. (There are many things you can use other than a salt shaker, of course. I have successfully used two glass furniture casters, plus one stubby little dime-store salt shaker.) Using a good grade of jewelry cement, and carefully following instructions on the tube, cement the shaker to the coaster. Next, turn a small glass caster (such as you would place under a chair leg) upside down and cement it in place on top of the shaker, to hide the threads that held on the silver top. This also provides a level top for your candlestick. Decide which size candle will look best on the base you have created, find a lid from a cosmetic bottle or spray can, cement it firmly to the glass caster, place your candle in it. Anyone who has known and loved your Mother would be thrilled with such a gift, made with odds and ends that were hers. Figure 2 CANDLE HOLDER made with bottom of old lamp for base AN old floor lamp or light fixture dismantled is a veritable treasure chest for making bases for candles or centerpieces. An oriental-shaped candle looks most appropriate on a base made by turning a lotus-shaped brass ornament from an old lamp upside down and securing it to a flat-topped drawer pull (Figure 2). Most candlesticks of this type have a sharp point to insert into the candle to hold it securely. Where this is lacking, use florist's clay. 103 A drawer pull is placed above the base of the old lamp, and the candle itself is made by pouring wax into a cookie sheet and putting it on the candle in layers to build the shape. Figure 3 CANDLE HOLDER made from chair leg discarded old chair will yield a beautifully turned leg,' which, if fitted with a heavy base and spray painted, will make an elegant stand for a_ fat Christmas candle. Saw the chair leg to the desired length, remembering that two or three inches will be required to fit into the base. If you don't have an old lamp base for it, make one from plaster of Paris. Use a bowl or a cake pan for a mold, remembering to provide a hole in the center in which to place your dowel, or chair leg. (This can be done by placing the dowel or leg end in a plastic bag and easing it straight down through the plaster of Paris, holding it until the plaster sets.) Duplicate the shape of your base in the top piece on which the candle will rest. This can be made of plywood, edged with metal molding (bought on spools in almost any store). Drive a fat short nail through the plywood top, directly in the center, before attaching it to the base so that the candle can be pressed down onto the nail. The top piece can be attached with two long wood screws (on each side of the nail) or with contact glue. Spray the whole stand gold. 104 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1962 For Christmas, pine cones and a green satin bow will look festive with a fat red candle (Figure 3). For a wedding, paint the stand white, antique with a little gold spray, and twine flowers down the stem. Arrange tapers of various lengths on the top (Figure 4). Figure 4 CANDLE HOLDER decorated for a wedding Purchase a plain round globe (called a rose bowl) and a package of colored, pearllike flat rocks sold for use in fish bowls. Separate the rocks, using two shades of one color or two complimentary colors. I used green and blue with a few lavender ones. Dip each pebble in jewelry coment and place carefully inside the rose bowl in a mosaic pattern pleasing to your eye. I placed them in a random fashion about one-fourth of the way up the bowl. My teen-age daughter Marianne enjoyed helping with this, and even your little ones will love separating your rocks. When the glue was completely dry, I poured pale green wax in carefully, not quite to the top of the rock design, then inserted a fat birthday cake candle in the center of the wax for a wick (Figure 5). Any small glass dish turned upside down will Figure 5 CANDLE HOLDER made with a rose bowl make a nice base for it. Before cementing the bowl on the base, insert several loops of shiny nbbon in a complimentary color between the two. You may not like all the objects you create, but you and your family will develop an awareness of the beauty and utility in everything around you. Ask yourself "What else would this be good for?" Or "What else could I use here?" It is an enchanting hobby and a worthwhile way of alerting ourselves to the potential in life. Being able to make "anything out of something," or "something out of nothing," may be a very valuable exercise for all of us.