[Vol49 | February 1962 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Fiction | Title: Sixty]
[Sixty Years Ago]
Sixty    LJears  J^go 
Excerpts  From  the  Woman's  Exponent,  February  1902 
"For  the  Rights  of  the  Women  of  Zion  and  the  Rights  of  the  Women 
OF  All  Nations" 
OFFICIAL  NOTICE:  In  consideration  of  the  seventeenth  of  March  next,  1902, 
being  the  sixtieth  anniversary  of  the  first  organization  of  the  Rehef  Society  by  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  in  Nauvoo,  Ihinois,  March  17,  1842,  the  General  Officers  of 
the  society  ha\'e  thought  it  advisable  to  make  the  day  a  special  occasion  of  thanksgiving 
and  rejoicing.  .  .  .  An  interesting  program  suitable  to  such  gatherings  might  be  arranged, 
bringing  in  the  best  talent  available.  .  .  .  Any  veterans  in  Relief  Society  work  should 
be  remembered  .  .  .  brief  historical  sketches  of  some  of  the  great  leaders  in  the  move- 
ment, past  and  present,  might  be  appropriate  .  .  .  and  the  teachings  and  instructions 
of  the  Prophet  Joseph  to  the  Relief  Society  are  always  suggestive  and  profitable  to 
read  on  memorable  occasions.  .  .  . 
— Bathsheba  W.  Smith 
General  President 
DUTIES  AND  BENEFITS  OF  THE  RELIEF  SOCIETY:  We,  as  members 
of  the  Relief  Society,  feel  it  not  only  our  duty  to  relieve  and  assist  the  poor,  but  to 
comfort  the  distressed  with  kind  words  and  acts;  to  visit  them  personally,  help  them 
in  trouble,  nurse  them  in  sickness.    What  a  mission  of  love.  .  .  . 
— Catharine  Naisbitt 
LOVE'S  SONG 
I  saw  two  happy  beings 
Whose  lives  were  made  complete, 
For  scenes  of  summer  beauty, 
Of  wreaths  and  roses  sweet. 
Bright  autumn's  golden  harvest 
Of  luscious  fruits  and  grain, 
And  winter's  hoary  whiteness 
All  breathed  the  soft  refrain: 
*'Oh,  love,  thou  gift  to  mortals  given. 
Thou  gift  which  flows  from  out  of  heaven, 
Each  gentle  word,  each  tender  thought, 
By  thy  sweet  spirit,  love,  is  taught.  .  .  ." 
— L.  Taylor 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  CONFERENCE  IN  KANAB  STAKE:  Sister  Elizabeth 
Stevenson  addressed  the  sisters.  Referred  to  the  importance  of  Relief  Society  work.  .  .  . 
Every  virtuous  woman  should  belong  to  the  society.  Spoke  of  the  necessity  of  being 
chaste  and  pure  and  making  right  marriages.  There  is  a  great  mission  for  all  mothers. 
Help  the  daughters  to  become  good  wives.  All  be  missionaries.  .  .  .  Keep  the  confi- 
dence of  your  children,  and  teach  them  to  be  pure  and  holy,  prayerful  and  modest.  .  .  . 
Sister  Harriet  Brown  .  .  .  remembered  the  hall  and  house  where  the  first  meeting  of 
the  Saints  was  held  in  Nauvoo.  .  .  .  Felt  deeply  interested  in  the  welfare  of  the  young 
people.  Our  children  are  our  first  care  and  will  be  great  blessings  if  we  train  them 
properly.  .  .  . 
— Persis  A.  Spencer,  Sec. 
Page  94