[Vol49 | February 1962 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Fiction | Title: The | Author: Martin]
[The Blue Gingham Dress Betty Lou Martin]

Mary picked up the child, and then she could see the vacant wall where the laundry equipment had been, Its emptiness marred the elegance of the wall. Mary suddenly roused to what Linda was saying. "And another thing, those people who were supposed to do the landscaping were here last night." "Yes?" said Mary questioningly. "Instead of just putting in our lawns and shrubbery, they want to terrace and put rock work in the backyard. The engineer says there's a spring on our lot, and he wants to make a waterfall. Oh, Mother, it will take thousands of dollars." Marty rose from sheer nervousness. "And it seems we owe for the installing of the air conditioner," continued Linda, "and these are samples of our drapes, Mother. The decorator was here yesterday." The younger woman extended several swatches for Mary to examine. "Thank goodness we haven't signed up for them yet, but I don't know what the neighbors will say if we don't soon get some drapes up. They all have so much around here." Mary rose. "Well, you'll have to do something about your laundry. Perhaps you can get by by bringing your clothes up home, then get Phil to string some lines and dry your clothes in the sun." Linda laughed. "I had to buy the dryer, Mom, because Mrs. Packer expressed her views on a clothesline. - She said she paid enough for her lot and didn't want her view obD- I structed by clothes waving in the wind. We just had to get a dryer." I Mary site as she rose. "Such I SPLENDOR BEFORE DAWN. Bondage! Oh, Linda," she said forlornly, "your young lives should be joyous and full of adventure. You can't possibly be happy with so many installments to pay." Linda was close to tears as she took the baby from her mother and followed her to the door and out to the car. "I know," she said, "but it looked so easy before we signed up for the house." Mary got into her car. "Come up home and wash, dear," she said, "until you have worked something out." She drove away, her heart wounded at the sad little figure standing in the clay. If only these young people knew the joy of freedom from debt and worry. If only they would wait for the pleasures of owning a little at a time, instead of rushing headlong into the mire of easy credit to obtain the things that come through waiting. \/{ ARY knew she could not help M these young people now. Getting the washing equipment back was only a drop in the bucket. The landscaping, the costly draperies, and the furniture for the elegant rooms, and all the other expenditures would in all probability have the same consequences as the washing equipment. John was right. They had to learn the hard way. Phil did not make that much money. Mary looked back over the years. John's thrift and organization in his life was like a religion to him. As far back as she could remember, he had saved for a rainy day. Small wages, small savings, but the habit was there. He had always been-an opportunist, too, in a small way — food bargains, little deals that filled the locker for winter. There had always been plenty, always a sure way to meet the emergencies that came along. 'Thrifty, yet no one could say John was stingy. 'That winter when Mary's father had been hospitalized in the depression days, John had come to the rescue. The little bank account was wiped out completely, and he had started in again ungrudgingly. Yes, John had helped many people — the Andersons with the large family. He had instructed Mary then to supply them with food and clothing. He had supplied them with money, too, and they had gotten by until a job was in sight. And yet, what an adventure life had been. What fun they had building their own home, making additions, improving, renovating, and making the old pieces serve their purposes. The things that mattered — music, education, a vacation, new dresses for the girls, when an event was something special — all those things John stood behind. Life was lived leisurely and joyously. No, Mary reflected, she had nevei known what it meant to be bogged in the mire of debt. The next morning Mary and John sat at breakfast when Linda drove in. She hurried up the walk, holding little Kathy limply on her hip. She was almost running, and Mary hurried to open the door. 'There was something urgent in the girl's face. "Good morning, Dad, Mother," the girl said, setting her baby on the floor. Mary could see excitement in her face. "Mother, I can get my job back, 82 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1962 so I'm going to work — that is if you'll take Kathy." Mary almost choked as the full impact of her daughter's words pierced her mind. "Well, yes, dear," she said, "but does Phil want you to go to work?" "Not exactly, 'but he really hasn't much choice, Mother. We have to make some extra money, and there's no other way to make it." Mary sat down. She could see John's set face. He did not like any part of this. "Well, Pll have to hurry," Linda was saying, "I have to be at the typewriter by nine. ['ll have to run back and change." "Now, just a minute," John was saying. He rose and picked up the smiling granddaughter. "Your mother has her job, too.' Linda opened her eyes questioningly, "But that's just volunteer work at the hospital," she said. Mary fidgeted. She wished John would not get down to cases just now when Linda needed them both so much. But her husband was firm. "Volunteer or whatever you call it, it's something she loves to do. She shouldn't have to be tied to tending children." Linda was half angry, greatly disturbed. "But I thought." "For today," said Mary briskly, "Tll take Kathy, just temporarily." John kept still, but Mary knew he wanted to prolong this argument. Linda set the bags down. "But I thought you both loved Kathy, and I thought you were glad we had bought our own home." "Of course we love this baby more than almost anything, and as for buying a home, that's a smart thing for any young couple to do if you can use moderation, but what you and Phil have undertaken." After a few curt words, Linda hurried away. "Oh, John," said Mary. "I wish you hadn't made her feel so badly just now." John put an arm around her, at the same time passing the baby to her. "Mary," he said. She could see his eyes held only love. "We're grandparents, but we are not going to be baby sitters. We have earned the right to do the things we want to do." Mary smiled at him through the baby's blonde curls. "You're so right, John," she said. "I just don't have the nerve to set the children straight as you do." week went by — two weeks. Linda was working while Mary took care of little Kathy. Things got worse for Phil and Linda, taxes, bills, commitments. It's so useless, thought Mary, those young folks aren't happy, and Phil's dragging around, with that heavy chest cold. It was that night that Linda called, her voice shaking with fear. "Phil's so sick, Mother. Can you and Dad come down? I'm so wor ried." Phil was indeed ill. Virus pneumonia had set in. For many days Phil hovered between life and death. John stayed at his side, with Linda and Mary relieving him often. Margaret, the oldest daughter, came from Callfornia to help with the baby and the work in the house. Many in the neighborhood responded with. Their SPLENDOR BEFORE DAWN love and helpfulness. The crisis passed, and Phil showed signs of improvement. 'The convalescence was slow, and it took many weeks before he could be released from the hospital. On the day he came out of the hospital Mary and John suggested that they come to their home until Phil was stronger. It was a Saturday afternoon. Phil lay on the couch in the living room. He was strangely quiet as he looked into the low burning fire. "I don't ever want to go back to Juniper Street," he said suddenly. Mary straightened. John looked as calm as usual, but Linda was startled beyond measure. She ran to his side and sat on the ottoman beside Phil, then laying her head on his chest, she burst into violent crying. Phil put his hand on her head. "Go on," he said, "it will do you good, then we can talk." Linda raised her head and wiped her eyes. "I don't ever want to go back either," she said. '"We're not ready for such a big house yet, Phil. It's something we should have waited for for many years." "We'll lose our shirts maybe," said Phil, "but suppose we do. The 83 way it is, it's like a chaos — a scramble, so much to live up to—far beyond our means." Mary felt a joyous relief. 'Then these young people had learned, and John had been right. 'They had come out of the brush. "Tl talk to the agent," said Phil, "af he can sell, we'll take what he can give us. We'll get us a small place like." "Like this," supplied Linda. "We'll buy just a little at a time like Mother and Dad have done. We won't ever go into all those installments again." Linda's face showed relief and joyous expectancy. Mary got up suddenly. "I'll fix us a snack," she said, hurrying to the kitchen. John followed close behind. "Well, dear," he said, pulling Mary toward him, "I think you can buy that washer for Linda now." Mary beamed. "Oh, I'm so glad, John," she said. "She's going to need it. But no dryer, John. She can get along without a dryer." John smiled. "No dryer, Mary," he said. "She still has to find the sunshine, and a clothesline is one sure way." Sara O. Moss, Salt Lake City, Utah, writes: "I have tried to show that debt is such a bondage, especially for young people who seem prone to buy all the things at once." Mrs. Moss is a talented and enthusiastic writer. She is a member of the League of Utah Writers, a former member of the Barnacles, a writers club, and is a member of a well-known workshop group in Salt Lake City. She is the wife of Don W. Moss. They have three daughters: Joyce and Mary Sue who are teachers in the Granite District; and Mrs. Carol Donna Voss of Pomona, California. They have one grandchild. Mrs. Moss was born in Brooklyn, New York, and came with her parents at an early age to Logan, Utah. She received her education at Brigham Young College and Utah State University. Funeral and Burial of President Brigham Young Part II Preston Nibley Assistant Church Historian leading brethren of the Church to the death of President Brigham Young, is well expressed in the words of George ©. Cannon, a member of the Council of the Twelve: "On 'Tuesday night," he states, "as I sat at the head of his bed, and thought of his death, if it should occur, I recoiled from the contemplation of the view. It seemed to me that he was indispensable. What could we do without him? He had been the brain, the eye, the ear, the mouth, and hand for the entire Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. From the greatest details connected with the organization of this Church, down to the smallest minutiae connected with the work, he has left upon it the impress of his great mind. From the organization of the Church, and the construction of Temples, the building of 'Tabernacles; from the creation of a provisional State government, and a 'Territorial government, down to the small matter of directing the shape of these seats upon which. We sit this day; upon all these things, as well as upon all the settlements of the 'Territory, the impress of his genius is apparent. Nothing was too small for his mind; nothing was too large. His mind was of that character that it could grasp the greatest subjects, and yet it had the Page 84 Toe: immediate reaction of the C. R. Savage BRIGHAM YOUNG Said to be one of his last portraits capacity to descend to the minutest details. 'This was evident in all his counsels and associations with the Saints; he had that power, that wonderful faculty, which God gave him, and with which he was inspired. And while I was thinking of all this, it seemed as though we could not spare him; he was indispensable to this great work. And while I felt it, it seemed as though a voice said, 'I am God, this is my work; it is I who build up and carry I it forward; it is my business to guide my Saints'"" (Deseret News, September 3, 1877). FUNERAL AND BURIAL OF PRESIDENT BRIGHAM YOUNG 85 II HE funeral of President Brigham Young was held on Sunday, September 2, 1877, in the large Tabernacle. The previous day, "at a quarter past eight o'clock in the moming," the body was conveyed from the Lion House to the 'Tabernacle, in order that the Saints might have "a farewell look upon the countenance of our loved and venPS & 4 Don Busath for Eig): Ais ge Riedl erated President, Prophet and Brother."' About half past ten o'clock the doors of the 'Ta