[Vol49 | February 1962 | Sequence: 11 | Category: General Feature | Title: Notes | Author: List]
NOTES  FROM  THE  FIELD 
127 
welcomed.  Sister  Bangerter  challenged  the  members  to  double  their  membership  by 
finding  lost  or  inactive  members,  and  enlisting  the  sisters  who  have  recently  joined 
the  Church.  'Life  in  the  Church  Is  a  Job  in  the  Church'  and  'Dignity  in  Your  Call- 
ing' were  subjects  discussed  by  Gerta  Kerns,  Secretary,  Brazilian  Mission  Rehef  Society, 
and  Trelva  Wilson,  First  Counselor.  A  look  at  the  literature  and  social  science 
courses  was  presented,  and  a  consideration  of  the  work  meeting  lesson  plans  was  fol- 
lowed by  'A  Peek  at  Work  Meeting.'  Eleven  members  from  various  parts  of  the 
mission  shared  their  talents  with  everyone,  in  an  effort  to  bring  new  ideas  into  the 
bazaars. 
"A  one-hundred  voice  combined  Singing  Mothers  chorus  presented  a  special  pro- 
gram on  Friday  night,  directed  by  Mary  Vassel.  Catharina  M.  Abondanza  accom- 
panied at  the  piano.  A  lovely  reception  concluded  the  conference  as  a  fitting  touch  to 
end  a  very  successful  'Congresso'  in  the  Brazilian  Mission." 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  BUILDING  PRESENTED  WITH  KOREAN  DOLL 
June  1961 
Left  to  right:  Elder  Gordon  B.  Hinckley  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve;  President 
Paul  C.  Andrus,  President,  Northern  Far  East  Mission;  Frances  Andrus.  President, 
Northern  Far  East  Mission  Relief  Society;  President  Belle  S.  Spafford,  General  Presi- 
dent of  Rehef  Society. 
From  his  tour  of  the  Northern  Far  East  Mission  in  the  spring  of  1961,  Elder 
Hinckley  brought  back  a  beautiful  Korean  doll  dressed  in  red  satin,  made  by  the  Relief 
Society  sisters  of  Korea,  and  presented  the  doll  to  President  Spafford  during  the  Mission 
Presidents  Seminar  in  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  June  26  -  July  3,  1961. 
The  doll's  costume  is  exquisitely  made,  and  includes  a  handbag  and  beautifully 
designed  sandals.