[Vol49 | February 1962 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Lesson | Title: 137 Work Meeting — Hello and Goodbye Elaine Anderson Cannon]
(A  Course  Expected  to  Be  Used  by  Wards  and  Branches  at  Work  Meeting) 
Discussion  8  —  Hello  and  Goodbye 
Ehine  Anderson  Cannon 
For  Tuesday,  May  8,  1962 
Objective:  To  encourage  the  development  of  one's  best  behavior. 
One  of  the  most  important  rules  as  to  manners  is  to  be,  for  the  most  part,  silent 
as  to  yourself.  Say  little  or  nothing  about  yourself,  whether  good,  bad,  or  indifferent; 
nothing  good,  for  that  is  vanity;  nothing  bad,  for  that  is  affectation;  nothing  indifferent, 
for  that  is  silly  (David  Hume,  from  The  Dictionary  of  Thoughts). 
\  GAIN,  we  emphasize  the  im- 
portance of  placing  oneself 
second  to  the  interests  and  comforts 
of  others.  This  time  we  deal  with 
conversations,  introductions,  tele- 
phone tactics,  and  other  situations 
where  verbal  exchange  is  conducted 
between  two  or  more  people.  The 
reminder  to  think  of  others  first  may 
seem  tiresome  but,  if  conscientiously 
practiced,  the  rules  governing  vari- 
ous forms  of  talking  among  people 
will  be  more  easily  followed. 
Dinnei  Conversation 
Formal  dinner  conversation  is 
conducted  by  the  host  speaking  to 
the  lady  on  his  right  first  and  the 
hostess  with  the  gentlemen,  on  her 
left.  Guests  will  follow  this  example 
around  the  table.  When  everyone 
is  familiar  with  this  rule  of  eti- 
quette, the  conversation  goes  more 
smoothly  and  no  one  is  left  out. 
Midway  through  the  meal  the  pro- 
cedure is  reversed  and  the  guests, 
being  knowledgeable  in  this  social 
grace  (and  let  us  hope  we  all  are), 
co-operate  and  shift  their  conver- 
sation accordingly  as  soon  as  op- 
portune. This,  of  course,  should 
not  be  a  rigid  performance,  but  a 
mental  guide. 
One  should  never  worry  about 
opening  the  conversation  with  what 
has  become  known  as  a  ''cliche." 
Actually,  mundane  as  they  may 
seem,  topics  such  as  weather,  the 
house  decor,  and  the  current  news 
are  useful  openers  and  friendlv  talk 
can  move  on  from  there.  It  be- 
hooves all,  however,  to  fill  their 
minds  with  good  thoughts  to  share 
with  others  and  then  take  advan- 
tage of  situations  where  conversa- 
tional experience  can  be  enjoyed.