[Vol49 | February 1962 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Fiction | Title: Cauliflower | Author: Cole]
Caulif ower Casserole Edna Lind Cole 1 cauliflower, medium size "2 ¢. Cheese, cut fine or grated 1 c. Celery, coarsely cubed "2 ¢. Potatoes, cold mashed 1 c. Canned tomatoes, chopped 1 tbsp. Butter 1 medium-size onion, cubed 1 tbsp. Lemon juice 1 sprig parsley, cut fine "2 ¢. Milk, seasoned with salt, pepper, 1 green pepper, minced paprika. Add 2 hard boiled eggs, chopped four rosemary leaves. (one to put inside and one to garnish on top) Cook cauliflower in salted water. Use all leaves, except stiff outer leaves. When done, break up flowerets with fork. Chop leaves. Add lemon juice and blend in all the other ingredients. Arrange in casserole dish. Sprinkle some cheese and paprika on top. Bake 20 minutes. Garnish with parsley and chopped egg. Serves four. Page 105 She Houdinattie Maryhale Woolsey HE spelling of the name was Mother's guess, and nobody ever questioned it. It was, she explained, a mental picture of a word somehow derived from the name Houdini, the famous magician Grandfather greatly admired. "Sure the handiest man ever I heard of!" he used to say. And that Houdinattie was the handiest, Mother thought, of all Grandfather's tools. It was a special kind of hammer, all metal, shiny nickel finished, shaped like a long letter "T," with its stem split at the bottom. Its crossbar, heavy and squared at the ends, made the double hammer head, and the split stem made the claws. Not curved as all the usual hammers' claws, but flattened to sharpness at their ends. They could pry up nails and loosen nailed-on box covers the quickest and cleanest any hammer ever could. It had an unusually good balance for nail driving, too. Whoever had the Houdinattie, would be certain to nail together the most boxes of anyone in any given period of work time. In fact, it seemed that anything you did with hammers could be done faster and more easily with the Houdinattie. Boxes were what it did the most of, because Grandfather was a "bee man" and used thousands of boxes every year to ship his honey crop. 'The boxes arrived by carload lots, pre-cut, but flat, and Grandfather put his youngsters, both girls and boys, to the job of nailing them together and stacking them at one end of the big honeyPage 106 house to be filled during the harvest season and have the covers nailed on — again, often by the sons and daughters. When a box had to be opened for inspection, that Houdinattie was the only tool anybody ever dreamed of using. The Houdinattie was Mother's favorite tool. She had liked carpentering, to an extent unusual for a girl, and often talked of learning to build things a lot more fancy than boxes, when she got bigger. "And when I grow up and get a home of my own, a Houdinattie is going to be the very first tool I buy!" she used to declare. Well, the time came. 'That is, the time when Mother married and started housekeeping — and collecting tools to put up shelves and build bookcases and cupboards and things. But, to her great disappointment, a Houdinattie was far from her first tool. The stores in the small town where her husband's work took them, had no Houdinatties and didn't even know what a Houdinattie was. Mother had to be content with an ordinary claw hammer, until some time when Father could get one for her when he went to a bigger town. It was when he questioned how to spell it, that Mother realized she had never seen the word in print — and discovered there was no such word in the dictionary. ATHER never could find her a Houdinattie. Some years later, Mother had opportunity to seek for it in big hardware stores in Ogden THE HOUDINATTIE and Salt Lake City. Nowhere could she find a Houdinattie, and among all the nice polite salesmen she talked to, there was not one who had the slightest idea of what she wanted. Even though she sometimes made a little sketch of it, they would simply shake their heads. Of course, her search never became what you might call de termined. The ordinary hammer served well enough for Mother's simple carpentry. The Houdinattie was something to run onto some day and rejoice over. It wasn't even on her mind enough to make her remember, at letter-writing times, to ask Grandfather about it. Almost six years passed before Mother made the long journey back to Oregon fora visit. The first time she wandered out to the honeyhouse, there in the tool cupboard just inside the door, she saw that bright, shiny Houdinattie. "Oh, Papa!" she exclaimed. "I'm so glad to be reminded of something I kept forgetting to ask you in my letters. I've wanted a Houdinattie ever since I got married, but I've never been able to find one in any store I've been to." "Where did you look for it?" "Why, in the hardware stores — the same places I've bought the other tools I have. But nobody, anywhere, seemed to know anything about Houdinatties. Grandfather sat down suddenly on the nearest nail keg. "Houd— that what you asked for, Houdinattie?" he wanted to know. His cheeks were pinking rapidly and his mouth twitching at its corners. "Why, of course. That's what you always...." Mother's voice 107 failed her as a mortifying thought numbed her mind — and as Grandfather's mouth opened wide to emit a grcat roar of laughter. It grew and grew until it seemed quite to overwhelm him. His pink cheeks deepened to purple; he swayed helplessly and slapped his thighs with his big hands. At last Grandfather calmed down a little, enough to say, between gusts of laughter, ""That's what I — was guessing... Oh, in those big stores! Wish I'd been there to see some of those salesmen's faces!" Mother felt her own cheeks start to burn hotly. Not until that moment, she told us afterward, had she remembered Grandfather's habit of nicknaming things. The "whatchacallit"... "That thingamumbob." But he would call them by their right names sometimes. "You always called it — that, Papa. Never once, anything else!" "Sure." Grandfather mopped his forehead with his big, blue bandana handkerchief, and chuckled. "Lots handier than its rightful nomenclature." He pulled himself up from the nail keg, went over to the tool cupboard, and_ reached down the shiny tool. "Inspector's hammer, this thing is, daughter. A man as busy as I, just hasn't time to bother with a mouthful of a name like that, all the times I'd be saying it. But that's what it is: inspector's hammer. I sure would like to have seen those clerks when you asked for a — a Houdinattie. Why, girl — if I had known you wanted one that bad, I would have bought you one from the BeeKeepers' Supply House a long time ago!" We Help Build a Church at Paonia Violet M. Evans E were told it would be a \¢ day and a half travel. We knew the name of the town, the name of the branch president, and had the blueprints along. It seemed as if we were heading toward the unknown. What were the people like, what, the town? What obstacles would interfere with the job? We passed, blithely enough, through the familiar towns of Malad, Brigham City, Bountiful, Salt Lake, and Provo. Then, the desert! I said: "It is fascinating to me, that on up ahead is a trailer space just waiting for us, as if it were fate that we occupy it." I went on: "Paonia! Paonia! We are not even sure how it is pronounced! What if it is one of those squeezed-in, smoggy, coal mine places?" The pick-up did not answer, but went along faithfully pulling the loaded trailer. More desert! More dried-up vegetation. "What if Paonia is just some more of this desert!" I exclaimed, wildly. My husband assured me that 5,600 feet altitude did suggest "in the mountains." We were both worried whether there was a trailer park with modern hookups. 'Thinking of the supermarkets and laundromats, I said: "We could hookup at Grand Junction!" Lynn replied, laconically, "Too far!' I tried again: "Delta?" He replied again: "Too far!" The monotony of the desert does tend to make one irritable sometimes. AlPage 108 though I am unusually kind to my good husband, I said: "Oh, heap big Indian Chief, far too wordy!" We had planned to get to Paonia before dark, but taking two hours rest brought us in when it was getting late. My husband inquired at a filling station about trailer parks. The considerate man got his motorcycle and went ahead of us to a trailer park among some cottonwood trees a mile out. There were six neat-looking mobile homes, widely spaced. And there was our patient "spot," waiting for our arrival at the far left, with a patio pavement! The next day was Memorial Day. We spent it getting orderly and clean. 'Towards evening, Lynn telephoned the president of the branch, who lived about twenty miles away. When Lynn came back, I said, "What did he sound like? I hope he is not the glamorous sort!"' My husband said in astonishment, "Well! What do you mean?" I recovered with, "Oh, I want him to be ordinary like me." He said with surprise, "You are not ordinary!" Which was flattery, indeed! Lynn said, "He's dropping by after Mutual to meet us!" I did not see how Lynn could watch TV so calmly after supper, knowing this touchy meeting was coming up. So much depends on a building superintendent and _ his wife getting along smoothly with the people they come among. WE HELP BUILD A CHURCH AT PAONIA The branch president turned out to be natural, sincere, and a very likable person. He told us that there was a full time carpenter available, and a good project clerk, also. These two facts were an immediate comfort! He and Lynn talked for some time about the project and possibilities, and then Lynn said, "Let's go see some of those people you mentioned, if you have the time." I did not mind being left alone, for I had told my husband to forget that he had a wife until the church was built and to make blood-brothers of. All the men with whom he would have to work, THE next day, Mr. Phillip Ellgren, who is a high councilman and a man capable of being a building superintendent himself, and my husband got the two necessary buildings on the lot. They ordered a power pole and telephone, and the next day went ahead with removing a fence and leveling the lot. There was a considerable amount of measuring to do, and some adjustment pertaining to boundary. I began to content myself by getting acquainted with my neighbors at the trailer park. The husbands all worked at the Paonia Damsite. The dam had been "building" for two years and would be finished in about five weeks; then, some of the men expected to be transferred to the Crawford Dam. A Curecanti Dam was going to be built, also. There were eight or more coal mines up the canyon which supplied work for a good many men. These coal 109 mines were in pleasant surroundings, and were not obnoxious. There were two mountain passes which would be interesting drives. Cherry, peach, apple, and pear orchards, with irrigation ditches full of running water, were all around Paonia. Not too far away were beautiful mountains. We could not have had a happier assignment! When Sunday came, we went to the meeting place. It was a back hall above a drugstore, but was not used by any other group. The meetings followed consecutively, as so often they do where members have distances to come. It was fast Sunday meeting. The saints loved their president, Brother Farnsworth, and his lovely wife and family. The meetings were especially fine. On the way home, Lynn and I agreed that we had never met a friendlier people. At four o'clock that afternoon the members met and the ground was dedicated. 'The two missionaries who were leaving said that it was possible that there would not be any more missionaries in that area until after the church was completed. Brother Farnsworth dedicated the ground in a sincere and _ reverent prayer. After the dedication, Sister Ellgren invited us over for ice cream and cherry cobbler. After much getting-acquainted talk, some colored slides were shown of a trip the family had taken to Glacier Park and to the West Coast. The evening had been most pleasurable. A feeling of great appreciation came over me for the friends we were making — helping to build a church at Paonia. Cafe Curtains Are Versatile Shirley Thulin wer is the most popular, the most decorative, the most functional, and least expensive window treatment today? There's only one answer — Cafe Curtains! Why so popular? Because they are at home in many rooms, from attic bedroom through kitchen, bath, or basement laundry room. They are decorative, because you can use your imagination and make them gay and colorful, whimsical (from comic prints as for children's rooms), sedate (as for dining rooms), and bright as sunshine for music or sewing rooms. How about functional? Cafe curtains really are! If you move a lot, they are your only answer. You can make them fit a new set of windows by raising or lowering the rod. They can cover the whole window, or three-fourths of the window, or half of the window, or only the bottom fourth if you so desire. You can have them in one, two, or three tiers. You can let them hang straight, tie them back, or part them. They do away with the need for blinds, too, and can be hung on any sturdy curtain rod. They are by far the least expensive curtains, because they can be made from inexpensive prints, from bedspreads, from unbleached muslin, from tablecloths, or, for small windows, from remnants. How to Make Plan double fullness for the width ef your window and measure the length, plus hem and facing, to estimate yardage required. Wash and press the material first, unless you are sure it won't shrink. Before making the points, make a narrow hem along both side edges and a wider hem across the bottom (figure 1). X= —— Figure 1 Make a narrow hem along both edges of the curtain, and a wider hem along the bottom. Lay the material out flat on the table and, using a paper panel the same width as the hemmed material, divide it into equal parts and draw reverse scallops three inches deep (figure 2). Now trace with a dark pencil, scallops along the unhemmed top edge of the material on the wrong side.