[Vol49 | February 1962 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Fiction | Title: Make It | Author: Dixon]
[Make It Out of Imagination Sylvia W. Dixon]

OMETIMES, according to the use you're going to make of the food, you can buy a second or third grade instead of the top grade. Grade "B" eggs are good for baking and mixing in scrambled eggs and omelets. Spend money for Grade "A" eggs only when you're going to use them for poaching, frying, or cooking in the shell. The same is true for canned goods. Casseroles and stews don't need whole tomatoes. Buy a second grade of these. Using judgment in this way can save money. Take advantage of "'specials, watch food prices. " but In finding a 92 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1962 bargain the first thing to do is to compare prices. And that means to compare prices no matter what special sales offers may be fluttering from banners, hung in the store, posted on the windows, or featured on cans and boxes. 'Those "cents off" legends on the labels of so many brands these days are not reliable. Look for the actual selling price on the item. Learn about manufacturer's brands and retailer's brands. Here you may find equal quality at a savings. Your best guarantee of quality is to read the labels. They contain helpful information as to weight, size, brand, grade, number of servings, cut, measure, price, ingredients. Buy in quantity only if you can use the product or have adequate storage space. If your family is small, small size jars and packages may be wiser buys than giant sizes, even at a low price. N©™: here is the third key, Proper Care and Storage of Food. Many homemakers overlook the importance of good care and storage for the food items they buy at the store. There isn't any point to doing a good job of planning and a good job of buying, only to let the nutritional value slip away, simply because the food was not put where it would keep its quality until it was used. Wash fruits and vegetables and store them in the vegetable compartment of your refrigerator or other cool place to keep them fresh, attractive, and full of value. Leaving them in the heat is one sure way of losing the very things you paid for when you bought the fruits and vegetables. Keep eggs clean, cold, and covered. Why covered? The shell of the egg is porous. It can lose moisture by evaporation and absorb odors from other foods. If you use the convenient built-in racks in the refrigerator, be careful to cover odorous foods and use the eggs within one week. If covered, the storage life is from two to six weeks. Keep milk in the refrigerator below 45°F. Storage time for pork cuts is somewhat shorter than for other meat cuts. Use ground meat in one day, variety meats in two days, fresh meat cuts in three to six days. If you don't plan to use ground meat the day you buy it, keep it in your freezing unit. Ground meat spoils quickly. Wrap cold cuts, sliced, in semimoisture proof material, such as waxed paper, and store at 38°F'. Use within six days for best quality. Store cured meats, bacon, and ham at 38°F. Use half ham within seven days for best quality; whole ham within ten days. Probable storage life of whole ham, four weeks; of half ham two to three weeks. Store fresh fish, loosely wrapped, at 32°F. Use within one day for best quality. Remove the tight wrappings from poultry. Rewrap loosely and store in the coldest part of the refrigerator. Use within two or three days. I A loose wrap on poultry or other fresh meat permits the air to circulate around the surface of the meat which helps to retard the spoilage. While the tough shell of nuts would lead most of us to believe that nuts are one of the best keep- FOOD BUYING, CARE, AND STORAGE ers, the opposite is true. Nuts have a high fat content. They require refrigeration. When the oils get rancid, the nuts will be stale. So, store nuts in airtight containers in the refrigerator or freezer. Unshelled nuts keep better than shelled. Unsalted nuts keep better than salted, because salt spreads rancidity. In an automatic refrigerator with the control set for normal operation, the center storage section of the cabinet will probably run between 38°F. And 42°F. The area just below the freezing unit is colder, for storage of foods such as meats, poultry, and fish, needing the lower temperatures. The bottom of the cabinet is somewhat warmer than the center, for less perishable foods. If in doubt about your refrigerator, take the temperature in different locations with a thermometer. More and more frozen foods are being used. "Zero 'Temperature"' is the most important factor to highquality frozen foods. Once food damage has been done because of higher temperatures, nothing can 93 restore quality. A frozen turkey held for one week at twenty to twenty-five degrees is likely to darken. Orange juice will separate. Fruits and vegetables will lose color and flavor. Other storage care should be given to some fruits and vegetables not regularly stored in the refrigerator. Potatoes, for instance, are a hardy looking vegetable, but they are really quite perishable. Light causes greening which results in off flavor. 'Too high temperature hastens sprouting. Too low temperatures may convert some of the starch to sugar, giving the potatoes an undesirable sweet taste. So, keep potatoes in a cool, dry, dark place with good ventilation. Store onions in slatted crates in a cool, dry, well-ventilated room. Pumpkins need dry, cool temperatures. Place on slatted shelves one layer deep. Store apples in a cool, humid place. 'Temperatures close to 32°F. Are best for apples. Store dried products in tin cans, glass jars, and plastic bags, as free of air as possible, and in a dark place.