[Vol49 | February 1962 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Fiction | Title: Womans | Author: Cannon]
Sixty    LJears  J^go 
Excerpts  From  the  Woman's  Exponent,  February  1902 
"For  the  Rights  of  the  Women  of  Zion  and  the  Rights  of  the  Women 
OF  All  Nations" 
OFFICIAL  NOTICE:  In  consideration  of  the  seventeenth  of  March  next,  1902, 
being  the  sixtieth  anniversary  of  the  first  organization  of  the  Rehef  Society  by  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  in  Nauvoo,  Ihinois,  March  17,  1842,  the  General  Officers  of 
the  society  ha\'e  thought  it  advisable  to  make  the  day  a  special  occasion  of  thanksgiving 
and  rejoicing.  .  .  .  An  interesting  program  suitable  to  such  gatherings  might  be  arranged, 
bringing  in  the  best  talent  available.  .  .  .  Any  veterans  in  Relief  Society  work  should 
be  remembered  .  .  .  brief  historical  sketches  of  some  of  the  great  leaders  in  the  move- 
ment, past  and  present,  might  be  appropriate  .  .  .  and  the  teachings  and  instructions 
of  the  Prophet  Joseph  to  the  Relief  Society  are  always  suggestive  and  profitable  to 
read  on  memorable  occasions.  .  .  . 
— Bathsheba  W.  Smith 
General  President 
DUTIES  AND  BENEFITS  OF  THE  RELIEF  SOCIETY:  We,  as  members 
of  the  Relief  Society,  feel  it  not  only  our  duty  to  relieve  and  assist  the  poor,  but  to 
comfort  the  distressed  with  kind  words  and  acts;  to  visit  them  personally,  help  them 
in  trouble,  nurse  them  in  sickness.    What  a  mission  of  love.  .  .  . 
— Catharine  Naisbitt 
LOVE'S  SONG 
I  saw  two  happy  beings 
Whose  lives  were  made  complete, 
For  scenes  of  summer  beauty, 
Of  wreaths  and  roses  sweet. 
Bright  autumn's  golden  harvest 
Of  luscious  fruits  and  grain, 
And  winter's  hoary  whiteness 
All  breathed  the  soft  refrain: 
*'Oh,  love,  thou  gift  to  mortals  given. 
Thou  gift  which  flows  from  out  of  heaven, 
Each  gentle  word,  each  tender  thought, 
By  thy  sweet  spirit,  love,  is  taught.  .  .  ." 
— L.  Taylor 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  CONFERENCE  IN  KANAB  STAKE:  Sister  Elizabeth 
Stevenson  addressed  the  sisters.  Referred  to  the  importance  of  Relief  Society  work.  .  .  . 
Every  virtuous  woman  should  belong  to  the  society.  Spoke  of  the  necessity  of  being 
chaste  and  pure  and  making  right  marriages.  There  is  a  great  mission  for  all  mothers. 
Help  the  daughters  to  become  good  wives.  All  be  missionaries.  .  .  .  Keep  the  confi- 
dence of  your  children,  and  teach  them  to  be  pure  and  holy,  prayerful  and  modest.  .  .  . 
Sister  Harriet  Brown  .  .  .  remembered  the  hall  and  house  where  the  first  meeting  of 
the  Saints  was  held  in  Nauvoo.  .  .  .  Felt  deeply  interested  in  the  welfare  of  the  young 
people.  Our  children  are  our  first  care  and  will  be  great  blessings  if  we  train  them 
properly.  .  .  . 
— Persis  A.  Spencer,  Sec. 
Page  94

Woman's  Sphere 
Ramona  W.  Cannon 
lYf  RS.  ROY  E.  (VIRGINIA  EP- 
^^  PERSON)  JAMES  of  Salt 
Lake  City  recently  spent  two  years 
in  Tapei,  Formosa,  where  her  hus- 
band was  deputy  director  of  the 
Mutual  Security  Mission  in  China. 
She  studied  Chinese  culture  and 
spoken  Chinese,  taught  English  in 
her  home  to  wives  of  Chinese  dig- 
nitaries, was  one  of  two  foreign 
members  on  the  YWCA  board  of 
Tapei.  She  started  a  project  to  have 
hard-of-hearing  Chinese  students 
tested  and  hearing  aids  obtained  for 
them,  and  she  founded  a  project  to 
acquire  record  plavers  and  records 
for  the  blind  as  a  means  of  educa- 
tion and  pleasure  for  those  under- 
privileged but  earnest  people. 
JOAN  SUTHERLAND,  colora- 
tura soprana,  in  November  sang 
at  the  Metropolitan  Opera  the  role 
of  Lucia  di  Lammermoor  and  won 
one  of  the  greatest  ovations  in  the 
seventy-seven  year  history  of  that 
famous  house. 
^GNES  DE  MILLE,  niece  of  the 
late  famous  moving  picture  pro- 
ducer Cecil  B.  de  Mille,  is  not  only 
one  of  today's  finest  choreographers 
and  dancers,  but  she  also  has  written 
two  successful  books  and  a  number 
of  very  good  magazine  articles. 
T\R     HURUTSTIATI    SUBAN- 
DRIO,  assistant  minister  of 
health  in  the  Indonesian  Govern- 
ment, and  wife  of  Indonesia's  for- 
eign minister,  recently  accompanied 
her  husband  to  Washington,  D.  C. 
She  then  came  to  Utah  to  visit  with 
Dr.  Virginia  Cutler,  Dean  of  Brig- 
ham  Young  University's  College  of 
Family  Living.  They  became  friends 
while  Dr.  Cutler  was  doing  im- 
portant work  for  the  United  States 
Government  in  home  economics  in 
Indonesia.  Dr.  Subandrio  savs  they 
are  working  hard  in  her  country  on 
a  ten-year  plan  to  eradicate  malaria, 
which  has  been  killing  about  50,000 
people  annually. 
''/GRANDMA    (ANNA   MARY 
^^  ROBERTSON)     MOSES," 
famous  American  artist  whose 
''primitive"  pictures  hang  in  mu- 
seums in  many  countries  and  are 
reproduced  on  greeting  cards,  died 
in  Hoosick  Falls,  New  York,  De- 
cember 13,  1961,  at  the  age  of  101. 
She  began  fulfilling  her  long  desire 
to  paint  at  the  age  of  seventy-seven. 
Freshness,  simplicity,  and  nostalgic 
memories  of  a  way  of  life  tradition- 
ally dear  to  her  home  country 
marked  her  work.  She  possessed 
courage,  originality,  and  great 
strength  of  character. 
Page  95

EDITOWAL 
VOL    49 
FEBRUARY  1962 
NO.  2 
[Refinement  of  the  Soul  cJnrough  cJrwulation 
'''T'HERE  ought  to  be  a  club  com- 
posed of  women  who  have 
lost  their  homes/'  The  voice  of  the 
sister  who  spoke  held  a  half-laugh- 
ing, half-sad  note.  'Tes/'  she  con- 
tinued, '  Ve  lost  our  home  when  the 
children  were  young,  during  the 
depression,  and  I  will  never  forget 
the  heartache/' 
Her  words  started  a  recital  of 
sobering  experiences  from  those 
who  were  sewing  together,  yet, 
again  and  again  the  conviction  was 
voiced,  "It  was  terribly  hard  at  the 
time,  but  I  learned  a  lot  and  gained 
understanding.  In  a  way  it  was  a 
blessing  in  disguise,  as  I  look  back. 
Of  course,  it  didn't  seem  so  at  the 
time." 
As  one  reflects  on  the  purpose  of 
life,  it  is  not  a  matter  of  wonder 
that  trials,  sorrows,  temptations,  and 
bitter  experiences  are  mixed  with 
opportunities,  contentment,  peace, 
and  joy.  The  great  prophet  Alma, 
refined  by  his  own  bitter,  youthful 
experiences  declared,  "And  thus  we 
see,  that  there  was  a  time  granted 
unto  man  [after  the  fall]  to  repent, 
yea,  a  probationary  time,  a  time  to 
repent  and  serve  God"  (Alma  42:4) . 
The  Heavenly  Father  is  no  re- 
specter of  persons,  for  every  one  in 
this  world  is  his  spirit  child.  Each 
one  was  tested  in  the  spirit  world, 
and  only  the  two-thirds  who  were 
obedient  were  allowed  to  come  to 
this  earth  and  receive  mortal  bodies. 
So  important  is  the  faithfulness  of 
his  children  in  this  second  estate, 
Page  96 
that  those  who  keep  their  second 
estate  are  promised  that  glory  shall 
be  added  upon  their  heads  forever 
and  ever. 
The  Lord  must  have  a  tried  and 
tested  people.  His  omniscience 
gives  to  each  of  his  children  in  this 
temporal  world  those  experiences 
which  will  develop  each  child  to  his 
fullest  potential. 
Of  the  Savior  it  is  written, 
'Though  he  were  a  Son,  yet  learned 
he  obedience  by  the  things  which 
he  suffered"  (Heb.  5:8).  Suffering 
—  mental,  spiritual,  and  physical  — 
teaches  obedience,  if  accepted  in  the 
spirit  exemplified  by  the  Savior, 
''not  my  will,  but  thine,  be  done" 
(Luke  22:42).  Holy  writ  also  says 
"he  suffereth  the  pains  of  all  men, 
yea,  the  pains  of  every  living  crea- 
ture, both  men,  women,  and  chil- 
dren, who  belong  to  the  family  of 
Adam"  ( 2  Nephi  9:21). 
In  every  tribulation,  trial,  sorrow, 
and  pain,  strength  to  endure  may 
be  sought  from  the  Father  in  the 
name  of  his  Son  who  went  below  all 
things  that  he  might  rise  above  all 
things.  Although,  at  times,  one
