[Vol49 | February 1962 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: 84 We Help Build a Church at Paonia Violet M. Evans]
times  made  a  little  sketch  of  it,  they  deepened  to  purple;  he  swayed  help- 
would  simply  shake  their  heads.  lessly  and  slapped  his  thighs  with 
Of  course,  her  search  never  be-  his  big  hands, 
came  what  you  might  call  de-  At  last  Grandfather  calmed  down 
termined.  The  ordinary  hammer  a  little,  enough  to  say,  between 
served  well  enough  for  Mother's  sim-  gusts  of  laughter,  'That's  what  I  — 
pie  carpentry.  The  Houdinattie  was  was  guessing  .  .  .  oh,  in  those  big 
something  to  run  onto  some  day  stores!  Wish  Fd  been  there  to 
and  rejoice  over.  It  wasn't  even  on  see  some  of  those  salesmen's  faces!" 
her  mind  enough  to  make  her  re-  Mother  felt  her  own  cheeks  start 
member,  at  letter-writing  times,  to  to  burn  hotly.  Not  until  that  mo- 
ask  Grandfather  about  it.  ment,  she  told  us  afterward,  had  she 
Almost   six   years    passed    before  remembered  Grandfather's  habit  of 
Mother  made  the  long  journey  back  nicknaming  things.  The  "whatcha- 
to  Oregon  for  a  visit.    The  first  time  callit"  .  .  .  'That  thingamumbob." 
she  wandered   out   to    the   honey-  But  he  would  call  them  by  their 
house,  there  in  the  tool  cupboard  right  names  sometimes, 
just  inside  the  door,  she  saw  that  'Tou    always    called    it  —  that, 
bright,  shiny  Houdinattie.  Papa.    Never  once,  anything  else!" 
''Oh,  Papa!"  she  exclaimed.  "Fm  "Sure."  Grandfather  mopped  his 
so  glad  to  be  reminded  of  some-  forehead  with  his  big,  blue  ban- 
thing  I  kept  forgetting  to  ask  you  dana  handkerchief,  and  chuckled, 
in  my  letters.  .  .  .  I've  wanted  a  "Lots  handier  than  its  rightful 
Houdinattie  ever  since  I  got  mar-  nomenclature."  He  pulled  himself 
ried,  but  I've  never  been  able  to  up  from  the  nail  keg,  went  over  to 
find  one  in  any  store  I've  been  to."  the    tool    cupboard,    and    reached 
"Where   did    you   look   for   it?"  down  the  shiny  tool.     ''Inspectors 
"Why,  in  the  hardware  stores  —  hammer,  this  thing  is,  daughter.  A 
the  same  places  I've  bought  the  man  as  busy  as  I,  just  hasn't  time  to 
other  tools  I  have.  But  nobody,  bother  with  a  mouthful  of  a  name 
anywhere,  seemed  to  know  anything  like  that,  all  the  times  Fd  be  say- 
about  Houdinatties.  ing    it.      But    that's    what    it    is: 
Grandfather  sat   down   suddenly  inspector's  hammer.     I  sure  would 
on  the  nearest  nail  keg.  "Houd—  like  to  have  seen  those  clerks  when 
that  what  you  asked  for,  Houdinat-  you  asked  for  a  —  a  Houdinattie. 
tic?"    he    wanted    to    know.    His  Why,  girl  —  if  I  had  known  vou 
cheeks  were  pinking  rapidly  and  his  wanted  one  that  bad,  I  would  have 
mouth  twitching  at  its  corners.  bought    you    one    from    the    Bee- 
"Why,  of  course.     That's  what  Keepers'  Supply  House  a  long  time 
you  always.  .  .  ."     Mother's  voice  ago!"

We  Help  Build  a  Church  at  Paonia 
Violet  M.  Evans 
WE  were  told  it  would  be  a 
day  and  a  half  travel.  We 
knew  the  name  of  the  town, 
the  name  of  the  branch  president, 
and  had  the  blueprints  along.  It 
seemed  as  if  we  were  heading  to- 
ward the  unknown.  What  were  the 
people  like,  what,  the  town?  What 
obstacles  would  interfere  with  the 
job?  We  passed,  blithely  enough, 
through  the  familiar  towns  of  Ma- 
lad,  Brigham  City,  Bountiful,  Salt 
Lake,  and  Provo.    Then,  the  desert! 
I  said:  'It  is  fascinating  to  me, 
that  on  up  ahead  is  a  trailer  space 
just  waiting  for  us,  as  if  it  were  fate 
that  we  occupy  it."  I  went  on: 
'Taonia!  Paonia!  We  are  not  even 
sure  how  it  is  pronounced!  What 
if  it  is  one  of  those  squeezed-in, 
smoggy,  coal  mine  places?" 
The  pick-up  did  not  answer,  but 
went  along  faithfully  pulling  the 
loaded  trailer.  More  desert!  More 
dried-up  vegetation.  ''What  if  Pao- 
nia is  just  some  more  of  this  desert!" 
I  exclaimed,  wildly.  My  husband 
assured  me  that  5,600  feet  altitude 
did    suggest    "in    the    mountains." 
We  were  both  worried  whether 
there  was  a  trailer  park  with  mod- 
ern hookups.  Thinking  of  the 
supermarkets  and  laundromats,  I 
said:  "We  could  hookup  at  Grand 
Junction!" 
Lynn  replied,  laconically,  "Too 
far!"  I  tried  again:  "Delta?"  He 
replied  again:  "Too  far!"  The 
monotony  of  the  desert  does  tend  to 
make  one  irritable  sometimes.    Al- 
Page  108 
though  I  am  unusually  kind  to  my 
good  husband,  I  said:  "Oh,  heap 
big  Indian  Chief,  far  too  wordy!" 
We  had  planned  to  get  to  Pao- 
nia before  dark,  but  taking  two 
hours  rest  brought  us  in  when  it 
was  getting  late.  My  husband  in- 
quired at  a  filling  station  about 
trailer  parks.  The  considerate  man 
got  his  motorcycle  and  went  ahead 
of  us  to  a  trailer  park  among  some 
Cottonwood  trees  a  mile  out.  There 
were  six  neat-looking  mobile  homes, 
widely  spaced.  And  there  was  our 
patient  "spot,"  waiting  for  our  ar- 
rival at  the  far  left,  with  a  patio 
pavement/ 
The  next  day  was  Memorial  Day. 
We  spent  it  getting  orderly  and 
clean.  Towards  evening,  Lynn  tele- 
phoned the  president  of  the  branch, 
who  lived  about  twenty  miles  away. 
When  Lynn  came  back,  I  said, 
"What  did  he  sound  like?  I  hope 
he  is  not  the  glamorous  sort!" 
My  husband  said  in  astonishment, 
"Well!  What  do  you  mean?"  I 
recovered  with,  "Oh,  I  want  him  to 
be  ordinary  like  me."  He  said  with 
surprise,  "You  are  not  ordinary!" 
Which  was  flattery,  indeed!  Lynn 
said,  "He's  dropping  by  after  Mu- 
tual to  meet  us!" 
I  did  not  see  how  Lynn  could 
watch  TV  so  calmly  after  supper, 
knowing  this  touchy  meeting  was 
coming  up.  So  much  depends  on  a 
building  superintendent  and  his 
wife  getting  along  smoothly  with  the 
people  they  come  among.

WE  HELP  BUILD  A  CHURCH  AT  PAONIA 
109 
The  branch  president  turned  out 
to  be  natural,  sincere,  and  a  very 
hkable  person.  He  told  us  that 
there  was  a  full  time  carpenter 
available,  and  a  good  project  clerk, 
also.  These  two  facts  were  an  im- 
mediate comfort!  He  and  Lynn 
talked  for  some  time  about  the 
project  and  possibilities,  and  then 
Lynn  said,  'Tet's  go  see  some  of 
those  people  you  mentioned,  if  you 
have  the  time."  I  did  not  mind 
being  left  alone,  for  I  had  told  my 
husband  to  forget  that  he  had  a 
wife  until  the  church  was  built  and 
to  make  blood-brothers  of  all  the 
men  with  whom  he  would  have  to 
work. 
'y  HE  next  day,  Mr.  Phillip  Ellgren, 
who  is  a  high  councilman  and 
a  man  capable  of  being  a  building 
superintendent  himself,  and  my 
husband  got  the  two  necessary 
buildings  on  the  lot.  They  ordered 
a  power  pole  and  telephone,  and  the 
next  day  went  ahead  with  removing 
a  fence  and  leveling  the  lot.  There 
was  a  considerable  amount  of  meas- 
uring to  do,  and  some  adjustment 
pertaining  to  boundary. 
I  began  to  content  myself  by  get- 
ting acquainted  with  my  neighbors 
at  the  trailer  park.  The  husbands 
all  worked  at  the  Paonia  Damsite. 
The  dam  had  been  ''building"  for 
two  years  and  would  be  finished  in 
about  fi\e  weeks;  then,  some  of  the 
men  expected  to  be  transferred  to 
the  Crawford  Dam.  A  Curecanti 
Dam  was  going  to  be  built,  also. 
There  were  eight  or  more  coal  mines 
up  the  canyon  which  supplied  work 
for  a  good  many  men.    These  coal 
mines  were  in  pleasant  surroundings, 
and  were  not  obnoxious.  There  were 
two  mountain  passes  which  would 
be  interesting  drives.  Cherry,  peach, 
apple,  and  pear  orchards,  with  irriga- 
tion ditches  full  of  running  water, 
were  all  around  Paonia.  Not  too  far 
away  were  beautiful  mountains.  We 
could  not  have  had  a  happier  assign- 
ment! 
When  Sunday  came,  we  went  to 
the  meeting  place.  It  was  a  back 
hall  above  a  drugstore,  but  was  not 
used  by  any  other  group.  The  meet- 
ings followed  consecutively,  as  so 
often  they  do  where  members  have 
distances  to  come.  It  was  fast  Sun- 
day meeting.  The  saints  loved  their 
president.  Brother  Farnsworth,  and 
his  lovely  wife  and  family.  The 
meetings  were  especially  fine.  On 
the  way  home,  Lynn  and  I  agreed 
that  we  had  never  met  a  friendlier 
people. 
At  four  o'clock  that  afternoon  the 
members  met  and  the  ground  was 
dedicated.  The  two  missionaries 
who  were  leaving  said  that  it  was 
possible  that  there  would  not  be  any 
more  missionaries  in  that  area  until 
after  the  church  was  completed. 
Brother  Farnsworth  dedicated  the 
ground  in  a  sincere  and  reverent 
prayer.  After  the  dedication.  Sister 
Ellgren  invited  us  over  for  ice  cream 
and  cherry  cobbler.  After  much 
getting-acquainted  talk,  some  col- 
ored slides  were  shown  of  a  trip  the 
family  had  taken  to  Glacier  Park  and 
to  the  West  Coast.  The  exening 
had  been  most  pleasurable.  A  feel- 
ing of  great  appreciation  came  over 
me  for  the  friends  we  were  making 
—  helping  to  build  a  church  at 
Paonia.