[Vol49 | February 1962 | Sequence: 30 | Category: Lesson | Title: Social]
[Social Science — Fullness of Life and Exaltation Ariel S. Ballif 146]
Social  Science — The  Place  of  Woman  in  the 
Gospel  Plan 
Women  and  Church  Activity 
Lesson  7  —  Fullness  of  Life  and  Exaltation 
Elder  Ariel  S.  BalJif 
For  Tuesday,  May  22,  1962 
Objective:  To  stress  the  importance  of  obedience  to  law  in  attaining  the  blessing 
of  exaltation  and  to  summarize  woman's  place  in  the  gospel  plan. 
The  goal  of  the  L.  D.  S.  family  is  to  ".  .  .  bring  to  its  members  such  lives  as  will 
enable  them  to  return  to  the  inner  circles  of  that  celestial  home  from  which  they 
came,  —  a  dwelling  with  the  Heavenly  Father  and  Mother  throughout  the  eternities" 
(President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  The  Keliei  Societv  Magazine,  December  1940,  page 
808). 
"J,  the  Lord,  Am  Bound  When 
Ye  Do  What  I  Say.  •  •  •" 
QBEDIENCE  to  the  command- 
ments of  God  is  prerequisite  to 
all  the  blessings  promised  to  man- 
kind. In  Section  130  of  The  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants,  verses  20-21, 
we  read: 
There  is  a  law,  irrevocably  decreed  in 
heaven  before  the  foundations  of  this 
world,  upon  which  all  blessings  are  predi- 
cated —  And  when  we  obtain  any  bless- 
ing from  God,  it  is  by  obedience  to  that 
law  upon  which  it  is  predicated. 
There  are  many  promises  in  the 
scripture  to  the  ''chosen  people/' 
but  in  each  case  to  realize  the  bless- 
ings they  must  hear  the  word  of  the 
Lord,  know  his  mind  and  will,  and 
apply  it  in  their  lives. 
Marriage  is  a  command  of  God. 
We  are  forcefully  reminded  by 
revelation  that  there  is  a  particular 
kind  of  marriage  (temple  marriage) 
for  us  if  we  would  receive  the  ful- 
ness of  his  blessings.  The  privilege 
of  going  to  the  temple  to  be  mar- 
ried is  dependent  upon  conformity 
to  the  highest  standards  of  human 
behavior,  such  as  living  the  law  of 
Page  146 
chastity,  which  is  purity  in  body  and 
mind;  and  possessing  a  firm  testi- 
mony of  the  divinity  of  Christ  and 
his  gospel  plan. 
It  would  seem  that  right  living 
prepares  the  way  for  divine  guid- 
ance in  our  lives.  Also,  that  assis- 
tance or  blessings  do  not  come  to  us 
without  a  concerted  effort  on  our 
part.  There  are  two  verses,  18  and 
19,  of  Section  130  of  The  Doctrine 
and  Covenants  that  should  be 
quoted: 
Whatever  principle  of  intelligence  we 
attain  unto  in  this  life,  it  will  rise  with 
us  in  the  resurrection. 
And  if  a  person  gains  more  knowledge 
and  intelligence  in  this  life  through  his 
diligence  and  obedience  than  another,  he 
will  have  so  much  the  advantage  in  the 
world  to  come. 
Then,  our  attention  is  called  to 
the  fact  that  blessings  are  all  predi- 
cated upon  the  fulfillment  of  the 
law.  This  is  an  appeal  to  the  intel- 
ligence of  men  and  women  and  the 
use  of  intelligence  to  the  realiza- 
tion of  their  greatest  possibilities. 
The  Lord  is  willing  to  help  where 
intelligent  effort  is  made.

LESSON  DEPARTMENT  147 
Fulness  of  Liie  Essential  individuals,  which,   in  turn,   is  de- 
to  Exaltation  pendent  upon  a  hfe  developed  from 
Any  person  building  a  house  will  good,  wholesome  living, 
set  down  some  specific  plans  accord-  To  the  couple  who  have  lived 
ing  to  which  he  hopes  to  achieve  fifty  years  together,  through  hard- 
the  objective.  The  more  important  ships  and  success,  sharing  in  full  the 
the  physical  structure  and  the  more  realization  of  their  religious  ideals 
costly,  the  more  detailed  and  elab-  and  goals,  there  is  an  important 
orate  the  plans  and  the  blueprints,  significance  of  ''at-one-ness"  re- 
This,  then,  gives  direction  to  the  ferred  to  in  the  idea  of  ''one  flesh," 
structure.  There  may  be  necessary  quoted  in  The  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
changes  and  adjustments  but,  in  nants.  Section  49,  verse  16.  They 
general,  the  house  will  be  like  the  have  not  only  become  sure  of  each 
plans.  With  good  plans  and  good  other,  but  have  become  so  much  a 
artisans,  together  with  carefully  se-  part  of  each  other  through  their 
lected  material,  it  becomes  an  actu-  sharing,  working,  planning,  and  ad- 
ality.  It  will  be  no  better  than  the  justing  that  certainly,  to  them,  there 
planning,  the  craftsmen,  and  the  is  full  realization  of  the  ''at-one- 
material  used  to  make  it.  This  is,  ness"  idea.  This  ''at-one-ness"  is 
to  some  degree,  analogous  to  the  the  product  of  successful  living  to- 
process  of  developing  a  successful  gether.  It  is  a  growing  feeling  of 
family  and  qualifying  for  the  bless-  indispensableness,  knowing  no  end. 
ing  of  eternal  life.  The  big  task  The  above  type  of  experience  is 
comes  in  training  and  developing  an  explanation  of  how  the  Lord  can 
the  personality  under  divine  prin-  be  bound.  The  blessing  is  theirs  in 
ciples.  There  is  the  never-ending  the  full  realization  of  each  other's 
responsibility  of  developing  self-con-  value.  It  is  the  value  of  good  living 
trol,  unselfishness,  and  in  making  expressed  in  a  degree  of  perfection, 
adjustments  to  the  ever-changing  The  harmony  of  their  lives  together 
relationships  of  personalities  in  is  the  preparation  for  eternal  mar- 
a  house.     It  is  the  difficult  task  of  riage. 
developing  the  technique  of   'we''  The   plan    of   life    and    salvation 
and  "our"  in  meeting  problems  and  might  be  compared  to  a  magnificent 
satisfying  needs;  the  maturing  of  like  organ    with    all    the    perfection    in 
interests     into     common     interests  sound  known  to  the  skill  of  organ 
through  the  sharing  of  common  ex-  makers.     If  a  baby  presses  the  keys 
periences  in  every  phase  of  life;  in  one  may  get  squeaks,  discords,  and 
general,  it  is  reducing  to  a  minimum  chaos,  so  far  as  music  is  concerned, 
the  basic  differences  and  increasing  A  person  with  a  few  organ  lessons 
the  individual   capacity  of  making  and  a  little  knowledge  of  music  can 
adjustment  to  each  other.  produce  limited  harmony  and  mel- 
Nothing   worthwhile    is    attained  ody.     The  true  value  of  the  organ 
without  personal  effort.     We  don't  and  its  possibilities  to  make  beauti- 
find  perfection,  we  make  it.  In  ideal  ful  music  increase  as  the  knowledge, 
family  relations  there  is  no  substi-  training,  and  artistry  of  the  player 
tute  for  the  art  of  adjustment  which  increase.     So  when  the  truly  great 
depends  upon  the  maturity  of  the  organist  plays  upon  the  same  instru-

14« 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— FEBRUARY  1962 
ment,  there  is  a  full  expression  of 
the  tone  quality  and  harmony,  and 
the  great  possibilities  of  the  organ 
are  fully  realized. 
So  with  life,  particularly  with 
married  life.  In  the  wisdom  of  the 
Creator,  each  individual  has  the  po- 
tential greatness  that  can  only  be 
fully  realized  in  successful  marriage. 
It  can  be  enriched  by  knowing  what 
to  do  and  doing  it.  The  instructions 
are  thorough  and  complete  from  the 
great  Designer. 
In  this  way  God  is  bound.  He  has 
defined  the  rules  of  life  and  life 
eternal,  pointing  out  the  way  to  ac- 
complish them.  If  we  apply  these 
principles,  the  results  cannot  fail,  the 
promised  blessings  are  ours.  The  de- 
gree of  success  varies  with  our  indi- 
vidual capacities  to  understand  and 
to  do. 
The  Eternal  Nature  of  Marriage 
As  the  statement  at  the  opening 
of  this  lesson  by  President  Clark 
points  out,  the  goal  of  the  family  is 
so  to  organize  the  lives  of  the  mem- 
bers that  they  return  to  their 
Heavenly  Parents  for  eternity.  This 
statement  implies  the  importance 
of  the  here  and  now.  The  blessings 
of  the  everlasting  covenant  of  mar- 
riage are  not  all  for  the  next  world. 
In  reality  the  blessings  and  prom- 
ises of  the  next  world  cannot  be  at- 
tained unless  we  are  living  the  laws 
here.  Man  is  that  he  might  have 
joy  here  and  now,  and  have  it  more 
abundantly.  The  whole  program 
of  the  Church  is  to  insure  its  mem- 
bers a  rich,  full  life.  If  this  is  at- 
tained here,  then  the  promises  of 
eternity  have  real  meaning. 
There  are  blessings  in  store  for 
all  who  keep  his  commandments. 
From    the    writings    of    President 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  special  en- 
couragement is  given  to  the  right- 
eous women  of  the  Church.  He  says: 
Now,  just  one  more  thought.  You  good 
sisters,  who  are  single  and  alone,  do  not 
fear,  do  not  feel  that  blessings  are  going 
to  be  withheld  from  you.  You  are  not 
under  any  obligation  or  necessity  of  ac- 
cepting some  proposal  that  comes  to  you 
which  is  distasteful  for  fear  you  will  come 
under  condemnation.  If  in  your  hearts 
you  feel  that  the  Gospel  is  true,  and 
would  under  proper  conditions  receive 
these  ordinances  and  sealing  blessings  in 
the  temple  of  the  Lord,  and  that  is  your 
faith  and  your  hope  and  vour  desire,  and 
that  does  not  come  to  you  now,  the  Lord 
will  make  it  up,  and  you  shall  be  blessed 
—  for  no  blessing  shall  be  withheld. 
The  Lord  will  judge  you  according  to 
the  desires  of  your  hearts  when  blessings 
are  withheld,  and  He  is  not  going  to  con- 
demn you  for  that  which  you  cannot  help 
("Elijah,  the  Prophet  and  his  Mission," 
Utah  Genealogical  and  Historica]  Maga- 
zine, January  1921,  page  20). 
The  promise  of  the  future  life  is 
glorious  beyond  our  power  to  under- 
stand. ''Eye  hath  not  seen,  nor  ear 
heard,  neither  have  entered  into  the 
heart  of  man,  the  things  which  God 
hath  prepared  for  them  that  love 
him"  (I  Cor.  2:9). 
Summary 
1.  The  Eminence  of  Woman 
As  a  summary  of  the  first  two  les- 
sons, may  we  point  out  that,  like 
man,  woman  is  a  creation  of  God. 
She  was  given  as  a  helpmate  of  man 
in  a  partnership  responsibility  for 
subduing  and  populating  the  earth. 
In  the  plan  of  creation,  God  gave  to 
woman  a  place  of  exceptional 
eminence.  The  importance  of  the 
responsibility  given  her  comple- 
ments the  assignment  given  to  man. 
Marriage  is  ordained  of  God.  In 
fact,  it  is  vital  to  the  fulfillment  of 
the  plan  of  life  and  salvation.  The 
fulness  of  the  Priesthood  can  only

LESSON  DEPARTMENT  149 
be  attained  through  successful  tern-  stimulation  of  her  family.    So  also 
pie  marriage.     This  places  woman  must  the  greatest  care  be  used  in 
in  a  most  strategic  position  —  a  posi-  providing  and  directing  the  social 
tion  of  honor,  glory,  and  vital  im-  contacts  of  the  child.     The  major 
portance,  and  with  all  this,  is  the  part  of  a  mother's  service  is  develop- 
responsibility  of  being  a  successful  ing  the  child's  judgment  so  he  can 
partner.  learn  to  choose  for  himself. 
There  is  in  the  relationship  a  Child  development  is  the  con- 
unique  element  of  equality,  mean-  stant  challenge  of  the  mother.  Dis- 
ing  evenly  balanced  or  proportioned;  cipline  is  bringing  one's  mental 
having  competent  powers,  ability,  or  powers  under  control  and  directing 
means.  While  Adam  was  designat-  them  into  useful  channels.  The 
ed  as  the  mouthpiece  of  God,  Eve  ideals,  values,  and  objectives  of  the 
was  designated  as  the  mother  of  society  in  which  one  lives  can, 
men.  This  set  up  a  balance  and  a  through  discipline  and  obedience, 
division  of  responsibility  which  pro-  become  a  part  of  the  child  in  in- 
vides  a  basis  for  sound  family  organ-  fancy  and  remain  for  life.  The  per- 
ization.  Only  with  her  can  man  son  who  is  most  free  is  the  one  who 
obtain  exaltation  in  the  celestial  knows  the  law  and  obeys  it. 
kingdom.  Truly,  she  is  the  leading  Moral  values  represent  the  wis- 
lady  in  the  drama  of  life.  She  holds  dom  of  time-tested  behavior;  moral 
equal  responsibilities  for  the  ac-  values  represent  the  best  judgment 
complishment  of  the  purpose  of  of  man  in  tune  with  the  mind  and 
life,  ''to  bring  to  pass  the  immortal-  will  of  God.  There  is  and  must  be 
ity  and  eternal  life  of  man."  To-  for  us  a  divine  tone  in  the  moral 
gether,  and  only  together,  can  the  values  of  our  society, 
full  realization  of  the  destiny  of  the  Homemaking  is  largely  the  cre- 
human  family  be  achieved.  ativeness  of  the  mother.     It  is,  in 
reality,  a  joint  father  and  mother 
2.  Service,  the  Mission  of  responsibility,  yet  it  is  the  artistry. 
Motherhood  personality,    and    industry    of    the 
Childbearing  is  a  woman's  unique  mother  that  predominate.     Besides 
service.    Providing  a  clean,  healthy  the  beauty  of  the  physical  settings 
body  and  a  sound  mind  are  most  she  is  responsible  for  the  things  in 
essential;  however,  being  well-born  her  home  and  elsewhere  that  stimu-