[Vol49 | February 1962 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Fiction | Title: Salt-Pork | Author: Switell]
Salt-Pork G riddle Cakes Pioneer Pancakes Cuet SWITELu ¥% Ib. Salt pork, chopped very fine 2 eggs, well beaten ¥, c. Hot cider *% c. Sugar ¥% tsp. Mace % tsp. Salt 1 c. Buckwheat flour 1 tsp. Baking powder 1 c. Buttermilk % tsp. Baking soda Chop up the salt pork as fine as you can while the cider is coming to a boil. Add the salt pork to the cider. Add the mace. Stir in the flour and add the buttermilk slowly. Mix well. Beat eggs and stir in sugar, salt, baking powder, and baking soda. If the batter is too thick at this stage, add 4 cup plain milk, until batter is of desired consistency.; Preheat an iron griddle or pan and brush on a bit of bacon fat, and then spread the batter. Turn heat down, as these griddle cakes must be pan-baked slowly for best results. These griddle cakes must be tasted to be fully appreciated, as they are different, and the salt pork makes them so. Serve in the usual way with your favorite syrup or honey. These salt-pork pancakes were invented by the first Latter-day Saint women crossing the plains toward their new, as yet unfound, home in the West. There was a great shortage of food, so with the ingredients they had in their wagons, the pioneering women created these wonderful salt-pork pancakes. Your family, too, will consider these a life-saver food for a special breakfast. In the original pioncer recipe, the eggs, buttermilk, and sugar were left out, and molasses was substituted for the sugar.

Salt Lake City, Utah, June 26 - July 3, 1961. The doll's costume is exquisitely made, and includes a handbag and beautifully designed sandals. 128 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1962 OE ROE SEES OKC RE AS Photograph submitted by Thelma W. Fetzer BERLIN MISSION, LEIPZIG BRANCH SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR LEIPZIG DISTRICT QUARTERLY CONFERENCE October 22, 1961 i Thelma W. Fetzer, President, Berlin Mission Relief Society, reports: "You can imagine our joy at receiving this picture from behind the Iron Curtain. The music they are holding is "When Mothers Sing,' composed by Vivian P. Hoyt of Juab Stake, and translated into German by Hildegard Teuscher, a young convert now living in Hamburg. 'The sisters expressed their appreciation for this beautiful song and for the tie it signifies between them and their sisters in the outside world. This group is one of seventeen Singing Mothers choruses from the forty-five Relief Society organizations m East Germany. We are thrilled and grateful to be able to make this report." HONOLULU STAKE (HAWAII), MAKIKI WARD RELIEF SOCIETY ANNIVERSARY PROGRAM, March 1961 Lois W. Ohsiek, President, Honolulu Stake Relief Society, reports a successful anniversary program in the Makiki Ward: "The ward has been organized four years. Annually on this day, the Hawaiian sisters take charge and provide Hawaiian entertainment and a poi luncheon. Each year the program gets better. This year Sisters Nama- NOTES FROM THE FIELD 129 kalua and Karratti were in charge of the program. Eleven Hawaiian sisters, wearing colorful muumuus, sang and danced. Sister Golda Hyde Gordon presented the literature lesson on Ralph Waldo Emerson and made an outstanding contribution to the program. A piano solo was given by Adelaide Fernandez, who is eighty-four years young. Her music was amazing, and would have been a credit to an accomplished pianist sixty years younger. A poem to Relief Society on its 119th anniversary, written by Maggie Hill, was read by Beverly Wilson, who was dressed in pioneer costume. Maurine Deen sang her own composition 'Island Memories,' accompanying herself on the ukelele."' iis PESO MIRE Photograph submitted by Nada R. Brockbank SCOTTISH-IRISH MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY FLOAT MADE FOR THE LORD MAYOR'S PARADE, Belfast, Ireland, May 13, 1961 Pictured as costumed for a long trek, are: Joan Farbus; E. Gamble; E. Bruce; M. Brookes; Susan and Kay Brookes; Simone Farbus; Sally Jane Gamble; Vivian Friers. Nada R. Brockbank, President, Scottish-Irish Mission Relief Society, sends the following excerpt from the Belfast Telegraph newspaper report of this entry in the Lord Mayor's parade, titled: "It's Still Tough Going West."' "It's tough, traveling west in a covered wagon — whether you are heading for Salt Lake City or for the Ormeau Embankment. "The hazards of a journey from Dundonald were fully experienced by the Relief Society of Ireland's float which set out for the Lord Mayor's show last Saturday. Reports have just filtered through to me. "The float — a covered wagon complete with pioneer family, fire, pots, cradle, butterchurn, and two lads with rifles to ensure 'safety in the home' — was making good progress to the assembly point when disaster struck. "A wheel sheared off. With true pioneer spirit, they set about repairing it. Even though it turned out to be a major engineering task needing expert help, the wagon was soon rolling again. "But it arrived five minutes too late for the judging — and all three judges commented that they would have had no hesitation in awarding it a major prize. "It happens like that — traveling west!" Sister Brockbank reports: 'We are having good success in our missionary efforts in Ireland, thanks to our Singing Mothers, and the work and efforts of our Relief Society sisters." 130 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1962 Photograph submitted by Evaletta G. Thompson UNIVERSITY STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH) RELIEF SOCIETY CHORUS PRESENTS MUSIC FOR CLOSING PROGRAM May 28, 1961 Front row, left to nght: Sharon Shields, stake organist, at the piano; Carol Crist (in black dress), stake chorister; Karen McFarland; Carol Peck; Arlene Lee; Carolyn Wanlass; Joan Miles. Second row, left to right: Marilyn Conger; Grace Vlam, stake social science class leader; Maureen Clark; Pat Kimball; Carma Heywood; Donna Fullmer; Shirlene Fairbourn; Elaine Ellis. Third row, left to right: Belva Barlow, Second Counselor, University Stake Relief Society; Sylvia Janson; Karen Williams; Rosalin Anderson; Claudia Goates; Ann Jamison, Secretary, University Stake Relief Society; Shirley Hess; Emma Jean Haight; Noreen Hess; Lynne Topham. Evaletta G. Thompson, President, University Stake Relief Society, reports: "This is the first chorus organized by this stake Relief Society (stake organized in February 1960), and the two numbers presented were artfully done under the direction of Carol J. Crist, chorister, and Sharon R. Shields, pianist. 'The chorus sang 'Lift Thine Eyes' a capella, and 'Eye Hath Not Seen.' The closing program was a spiritual experience, with Lida Prince as the principal speaker. Refreshments were served in the recreation hall, which had been tastefully decorated with many bouquets of fresh flowers in yellow and lavender colors. Lovely background music was furnished by a string trio. The eighty-five young Relief Society sisters, members of the stake presidency, high council, and bishoprics who attended were richly rewarded. "The chorus is composed of young unmarried college girls and wives of students attending the University of Utah." <> Clouds By Celia Luce [° takes clouds to make a really beautiful sunset — clouds as well as sunshine. anaes. LESS N DEPARTMENT al Sheology—The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 40 — Put the Kingdom of God First Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 56) For Tuesday, May 1, 1962 Objective: To emphasize the importance of taking up one's cross. HE revelations in The Doctrine and Covenants studied this year were received during a four-month period, from March through June 1831. We have learned that the law of consecration was in effect, and that people were called to repentance because of slothfulness and selfishness. 'The revelation for study in this lesson is a call to repentance to certain individuals and also to classes or groups, arising principally out of a need to live the law of consecration. (Additional background information is found in Lesson 37.) Specifically, however, Section 56 was received because of an inquiry by Thomas B. Marsh concerning his mission, due to the failure of Ezra Thayre, his companion, to perform the missionary service to which they were called by revelation. (See D&C 52:22.) With a background of rebellion on the part of Ezra Thayre, as just noted, and also because of another circumstance arising out of his failure to participate fully in the law of consecration (Ibid., 56:8-10), the Lord reminds those of his Church that his anger is kindled against the rebellious and the time will come when this class, the rebellious, "shall know mine arm and mine indignation, in the day of visitation and of wrath upon the nations" (Ibid., 56:1). Take Up Your Cross An important truth follows the Lord's statement regarding the rebellious, which emphasizes a need on the part of everyone who professes to be a follower of Christ. Our salvation is dependent upon how well we follow the Savior. He who does not do so, will not be saved in the celestial kingdom. Thus we have this truth: And he that will not take up his cross and follow me, and keep my commandments, the same shall not be saved. BePage 13] Li 74 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1962 hold, I, the Lord command; and he that will not obey shall be cut off in mine own due time, after I have commanded and the commandment is broken (D & C 56:2-3). As one considers the full importance of this message, he is reminded that man is free to choose good or evil. Men are responsible for the choice made according to the law under which they live. For a Latter-day Saint, as in the case of Ezra Thayre, commandments are given with promises of blessings commensurate with the law obeyed. The commandments of God are really opportunities for man to become free from barriers to attain the highest measure of salvation. When a commandment has been broken and not repented of, the Lord says that in his own due time the violator will be cut off from his kingdom. But what does it mean to take up one's cross? Instructive in answering this question is an examination of some scriptures which bear upon the meaning of the verse from this revelation. It is apparent that to take up one's cross is to follow the Savior devotedly, obediently, in service and consecration. Upon one occasion Jesus rebuked Peter by reminding him that "If any man will come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross, and follow me" (Mt. 16:24). By inspiration, the Prophet Joseph Smith continued this admonition as follows: "And now for a man to take up his cross, is to deny himself all ungodliness, and every worldly lust, and keep my commandments." To be a true disciple of Christ is to follow him regardless of the cost. Freedom can come to us only by breaking the shackles of sin, of habits detrimental to eternal welfare. Is it easy to follow the Lord? The Savior knew that if man wanted to find release from the bondage of sin, he could find it by faith in him through his redeeming sacrifice for man. Are not his words as true today as when uttered centuries ago? (See Mt. 11:28-30.) The words of President Joseph Fielding Smith should give us food for thought on this question. When a man confesses that it is hard to keep the commandments of the Lord, he is making a sad confession — that he is a violator of the Gospel law. Habits are easily formed. It is just as easy to form good habits as it is to form evil ones. Of course it is not easy to tell the truth, if you have been a confirmed liar. It is not easy to be honest, if you have formed habits of dishonesty. A man finds it very difficult to pray, if he has never prayed. On the other side, when a man has always been truthful, it is a hard thing for him to lie. If he has always been honest and he does some dishonest thing, his conscience protests very loudly. He will find no peace, except in repentance. If a man has the spirit of prayer, he delights in prayer. It is easy for him to approach the Lord with assurance that his petition will be answered. The paying of tithing is not hard for the man, fully converted to the Gospel, who pays his tenth on all that he receives. So we see the Lord has given us a great truth — his yoke is easy, his burden is light if we love to do his will (The Way to Perfection, page 150). Follow the Christ During the time of Joseph Smith, the expression "to take up one's cross" was apparently not uncommon. We know that Newel Knight, a frequent attender at some of the early Church meetings, when asked to participate in prayer at these meetings, "said that he would try LESSON DEPARTMENT and take up his cross, and pray vocally during meeting" (D. H. C. 1:82). How well do we members of the Church take up our cross in accepting the responsibilities of membership and the callings that come to us in our branch, ward, or stake positions? Here is what Elder Mark FE. Petersen wrote about those who follow Christ: If we are truly to follow him, we will take his advice in which he tells us to seek first the kingdom of God. He actually meant that we should give it first place in our lives. We should have ''no other gods before him," neither should we have any habits, or tendencies, or desires, Or practices, which are given preference to our religion. In times of decision, when we must make up our minds whether to go one way or another, let us remember this requirement of the Lord for his followers — put the kingdom of God FIRST (Your Faith and You, page 142). The first miracle in the Church resulted from Newel Knight's resolution to pray. What actually happened was that his uneasiness of mind because he did not accept the invitation to pray in a meeting, created a situation where he became possessed of a devil, causing him to request deliverance by the Prophet Joseph Smith. The Prophet replied: "If you know that I can, it shall be done"; and then almost unconsciously I rebuked the devil, and commanded him in the name of Jesus Christ to depart from him; when immediately Newel spoke out and said that he saw the devil leave him and vanish from his sight. This was the first miracle which was done in the Church, or by any member of it; and it was done not by man, nor by the power of man, but it was done by God, and by the power of godliness; therefore, let the honor and the praise, the dominion and 133 the glory, be ascribed to the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, for ever and ever. Amen. The scene was now entirely changed, for as soon as the devil had departed from our friend, his countenance became natural, his distortions of body ceased, and almost immediately the Spirit of the Lord descended upon him, and the visions of eternity were opened to his view (D. H. C. 189). Newel Knight did take up his cross and obediently performed his duties as directed by revelation. He was told to remain with the saints of the Thompson Branch (Ohio) and lead them to Missouri. (See D & C 56:7.) Not long after the Prophet arrived in Missouri, this group, led by Brother Knight, arrived in that land. Subsequently, he served in other capacities in the Church in taking up his cross. "T, the Lord, Revoke"' In verses 4, 5, and 6 of Section 56, the Lord revokes some of the commandments which had been given previously to Thomas B. Marsh, Ezra Thayre, Selah J. Griffin, and Newel Knight, and gave them other appointments. The revocation of a commandment might seem strange to some, in view of some scriptures which indicate that the Lord is unchangeable. (See James 1:17.) In this revelation, it is stated that "Wherefore I, the Lord, command and revoke, as it seemeth me good; and all this to be answered upon the heads of the rebellious (D&C 56:4). (Read Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 322.) There is security in obeying the commandments of God. He has declared that his promises will not go unfulfilled (D & C 1:37-38), but if man rejects the law, he forfeits the 134 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1962 opportunity to have that security which is based upon obedience. (See D & C 82:10; 130:20-21.) In Section 56, Ezra Thayre was called to repentance because of his attempt to repudiate a land contract made with the Church at Thompson, Ohio, where the saints were attempting to live the law of consecration (D&C 56:8). If he did not repent, he was to be paid the amount involved for the use of the land by the saints and be cut off from the Church. (See verse 10.) The following verse in this revelation points up the necessity for all men to observe the law given or suffer the consequences. "And though the heaven and the earth pass away, these words shall not pass away, but shall be fulfilled" (verse 11). The truth thus stated is particularly important at this point in the lesson because of the discussion on the revocation of commandments. Again, when men disobey, judgment follows, unless repentance is forthcoming. Although the truth that the Lord's words shall not pass away is about Ezra Thayre, there is a universal application to all men who come within the sphere of the gospel plan. In a sense, our eternal welfare is in our hands as Latter-day Saints, but only if we keep the commandments. On the other hand, if we reject the word of the Lord, the penalty is certain. In verses 12 and 13 of the revelation, the Prophet is told that he should furnish the money to recompense Brother Thayre and payment would come to the Prophet in Missouri. 'Those who would assist Joseph Smith in defraying — this expense by their contributions would receive land in Missouri in return — "For according to that which they do they shall receive..." (verse 13). True Repentance As we have already noted in this revelation, there are truths found in it which have application to members of the Church other than those to whom the revelation was specifically directed. In reference to verse 14, it is apparent that it could be applied to all saints today, as well as in 1831: Behold, thus saith the Lord unto my people — you have many things to do and to repent of; for behold, your sins have come up unto me, and are not pardoned, because you seek to counsel in your own ways (Ibid., 14). Do these words apply to the membership of the Church today? This is a question for each Latter-day Saint to ask himself or herself, not his neighbor. There is the answer to this question on page 324 of the Doctrine and Covenants Commentary in regard to the two sons. (See Mt. 21:28-29.) In this revelation concerning the saints at Thompson, Ohio, it might be stated: "Our Lord, who told Peter, the Apostle, that he had yet to be converted (Luke 22:32), also taught the Colesville Saints [originally from Colesville, New York] that they, though members of the Church, had many things to repent of" (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 324). Of these members in Thompson who had not organized under the law of consecration, there was need for repentance since the Lord had _ not pardoned them.