[Vol49 | February 1962 | Sequence: 36 | Category: Article | Title: Birthday Congratulations]
104 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— FEBRUARY  1962 
For  Christmas,  pine  cones  and  a  green 
satin  bow  will  look  festive  with  a  fat  red 
candle  (Figure  3).  For  a  wedding,  paint 
the  stand  white,  antique  with  a  little  gold 
spray,  and  twine  flowers  down  the  stem. 
Arrange  tapers  of  various  lengths  on  the 
top  (Figure  4). 
Figure  4 
CANDLE  HOLDER 
decorated  for  a  wedding 
Purchase  a  plain  round  globe  (called  a 
rose  bowl)  and  a  package  of  colored,  pearl- 
like flat  rocks  sold  for  use  in  fish  bowls. 
Separate  the  rocks,  using  two  shades  of 
one  color  or  two  complimentary  colors. 
I  used  green  and  blue  with  a  few  lavender 
ones.  Dip  each  pebble  in  jewelry  coment 
and  place  carefully  inside  the  rose  bowl 
in  a  mosaic  pattern  pleasing  to  your  eye. 
I  placed  them  in  a  random  fashion  about 
one-fourth  of  the  way  up  the  bowl.  My 
teen-age  daughter  Marianne  enjoyed  help- 
ing with  this,  and  even  your  little  ones 
will  love  separating  your  rocks.  When 
the  glue  was  completely  dry,  I  poured 
pale  green  wax  in  carefully,  not  quite  to 
the  top  of  the  rock  design,  then  inserted 
a  fat  birthday  cake  candle  in  the  center 
of  the  wax  for  a  wick  ( Figure  5 ) .  Any 
small  glass  dish  turned  upside  down  will 
Figure  5 
CANDLE  HOLDER 
made  with  a  rose  bowl 
make  a  nice  base  for  it.  Before  cement- 
ing the  bowl  on  the  base,  insert  several 
loops  of  shiny  ribbon  in  a  complimentary 
color  between  the  two. 
You  may  not  like  all  the  objects 
you  create,  but  you  and  your  family 
will  develop  an  awareness  of  the 
beauty  and  utility  in  everything 
around  you.  Ask  yourself  ''What 
else  would  this  be  good  for?"  Or 
''What  else  could  I  use  here?"  It  is 
an  enchanting  hobby  and  a  worth- 
while way  of  alerting  ourselves  to 
the  potential  in  life.  Being  able  to 
make  "anything  out  of  something," 
or  "something  out  of  nothing,"  may 
be  a  very  valuable  exercise  for  all 
of  us.