[Vol49 | February 1962 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Poem | Title: POETRY | Author: Speller]
[POETRY Invoke the Miracles — Frontispiece Alice Morrey Bailey 73 A Moment Padda M. Speller]
Poe's  poetry  or  prose,  remains  indif- 
ferent to  him.  From  his  first  line, 
his  unique  word-tone  music  and 
image  bring  us  into  a  realm  of  mel- 
ancholy magic  entirely  his  own: 
Ah,  broken  is  the  golden  bowl!   the  spirit 
flown  fore\er! 
Let  the  bell  toll!  —  a  saintly  soul  floats 
on  the  Stygian  river; 
And,  Guy  De  Vere,  hast  thou  no  tear?  — 
weep  now  or  never  more! 
See!  on  yon  drear  and  rigid  bier  low  lies 
thv  love,  Lenore! 
Come!  let  the  burial  rite  be  read  —  the 
funeral  song  be  sung!  — 
An  anthem  for  the  queenliest   dead   that 
ever  died  so  young  — 
A  dirge  for  her  the  doubly  dead  in  that 
she  died  so  young. 
— 'Tenore" 
In  both  prose  and  poetry  Poe 
strove  solely  for  a  unity  of  effect. 
In  prose  he  strove  to  intensify  hor- 
ror, fear,  guilt,  revenge,  or  madness 
until  the  reader  would  be  enabled  to 
realize  an  awareness  of  the  truth 
which  these  effects  convey.  His 
poetry  achieves  its  own  special 
sphere  of  excellence  by  creating  the 
effect  of  melancholic,  ethereal  beau- 
ty, usually  best  conveyed  through 
images  of  death  and  classically  beau- 
tiful women  who  love  or  die  ma- 
jestically   but    forlornly.     As    Poe 
explained  so  meticulously  in  'The 
Philosophy  of  Composition,"  he 
considered  each  word  and  each  im- 
age with  greatest  care,  and  chose  it 
only  when  he  was  certain  that  it 
contributed  to  the  total  effect  of 
the  poem.  While  we  might  pos- 
sibly doubt  whether  his  most 
famous  poem,  "The  Raven,"  actually 
was  composed  as  he  claimed  (see 
text,  page  457),  we  cannot  doubt 
the  precision  of  his  mind  after  read- 
ing the  following  poem  in  which  the 
first  letter  of  the  first  line,  the  sec- 
ond letter  of  the  second,  the  third 
letter  of  the  third,  etc.,  spell  out  the 
name  of  Frances  Sargent  Osgood 
for  whom  this  memorable  valentine 
was  contrived: 
A  VALENTINE 
For   her    these    lines    are    penned,    whose 
luminous  eyes. 
Brightly  expressixe  as  the  twins  of  Loeda, 
Shall    find    her    o\^n    sweet    name    that, 
nestling,  lies 
Upon    this    page,    enwrapped    from    e\"ery 
reader. 
Search  narrowly  this   rhyme,  which   holds 
a  treasure 
Divine  —  a  talisman  —  an  amulet 
That  must  be  worn  at  heart.     Search  well 
the  measure; 
The  words  —  the  letters  themsehes.    Do 
not  forget 
Page  141

142  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— FEBRUARY   1962 
The  trivialest  point,  or  you  may  lose  your  Science!  true  daughter  of  Old  Time  thou 
labor                                    '  art! 
And  yet  there  is  in  this  no  Gordian  knot  ^Vho  alterest  all  thmgs  with  thy  peermg 
Which    one    might    not    undo   without    a  ..,,■'■      ^     .          .                     .              . 
-  W  hv  preyest  thou  thus   upon   the  poet  s 
sabre,  'l,^.^,t, 
If  one  could  m_erely  understand  the  plot.  \^,iture,  whose  wings  are  duh  realities? 
Enwritten    upon    this    page    whereon    are  How  should  he  love  thee?  or  how  deem 
peering       "  thee  wise, 
Such  eager  eyes,  there  lies,  I  say,  perdu,  ^^'ho  wouldst  not  lea\e  him  in  his  wan- 
A   well-known   name,   oft   uttered    in    the  ^      dering 
,       .                        -  1  o  seek  for  treasure  m  the  lewelled  skies, 
r-^r         \     \            ,              1                    .  Albeit  he  soared  with  an  undaunted  wins;? 
C)t    poets,    by    poets;    as    the    name    is    a 
poets,  too.  Science  is  no  new  force,  but  ''true 
ts  letters  althou|h  naturally  lymg  -  daughter  of  Old  Time."     Thus  the 
Like  ^he  
knight  Pinto  (Mendez  Ferdinan-  ^^^^^^^^  ^^gj^^,^^^  ^^^^^  ^^,^  ^^^^jj^^^^ 
Qf,n  (r.L^  n   or.^r.r.r,^  <:^    4-    4-T.      r>  o^  defining  reality  is  an  ancient  one 
btill   torm   a   synonym   tor   truth.      Cease  i     r         i               i                       t  •  i 
^    -j^  J                     -  and,  tor  those  who  seek  a  higher 
You  will  not  read  the  riddle  though  you  beauty   than    earth    can    afford,   in- 
do  the  best  you  can-do.  evitablc.     Science  is  of  the  earth, 
which  Poe  felt  to  be  a  corrupted 
mass,  indeed  a  strangling,  suffocating 
When  such  a  feat  is  accomplished  environment  for  the  poet.  Denying 
within  the  added  disciplines  of  a  not  only  the  method  of  science,  but 
regular  metrical  structure  as  well  as  such  ''earthly"  forces  as  emotion  and 
an  abab,  cdcd,  etc.,  rhyme  scheme,  even  truth,  the  poet  Poe  sought  to 
we  are  ready  to  admit  with  no  re-  escape  into  the  sublime  realm  of 
luctance  that  Poe's  tales  of  ratiocina-  "ideality."  Refusing  to  trust  con- 
tion  [reasoning]  were  the  first  ventional  uses  of  svmbol  or  allegory, 
detective  stories  (and  still  some  of  Poe  hoped  to  attain  a  spiritualized 
the  greatest) .  Similarly,  at  the  time  beauty,  "the  handiwork  of  the  angels 
when  his  interest  in  cryptography  that  hover  between  man  and  God." 
[code  deciphering]  was  keenest,  he  No  poet  ever  held  a  grander  con- 
not  only  wrote  "The  Gold  Bug,"  but  cept  of  the  poet's  destiny  than  did 
challenged  the  readers  of  Graham's  Poe.  His  art  became  his  life,  for 
Magazine  to  submit  a  cryptogram  through  it  he  found  his  only  means 
which  he  could  not  solve.  Of  the  of  escape  from  the  sordid  realm  of 
hundred  received  he  solved  all  but  mediocrity.  But  once  having  given 
one,  and  proved  it  to  be  unsolvable.  birth  to  so  exalted  a  vision,  the  con- 
When  he  was  but  twenty-one,  Poe  trast  between  actuality  and  ideality 
wrote  a  sonnet  "To  Science"  which  became  too  great.  Hence  arose  one 
first  expressed  the  resentment  he  felt  of  Poe's  greatest  paradoxes :  repudi- 
as  the  practical,  earthly  spirit  of  ating  in  his  art  anything  earthly  and 
science  encroached  upon  the  con-  dedicating  himself  solely  to  the  pur- 
templation  of  ideal  beauty,  which  suit  of  another  worldly  beauty,  he 
he  considered  to  be  the  highest  uni-  nevertheless,  adopted  the  method 
versal  vision  granted  only  to  true  of  science  as  the  means  of  achieving 
poets:  his  goal.

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
143 
While  the  end  of  his  poetic 
technique  was  a  subHme,  musical 
indefiniteness,  the  means  for  ac- 
complishing his  end  was  first  to 
calculate  the  effect  he  wished  to 
achieve  within  the  poem,  then  to 
invent  or  select  words  whose  vowel 
tones  and  combined  rhythmic  and 
tonal  patterns  would  create  the 
classically  restrained  and  cold  melan- 
choly which  he  considered  the  aura 
of  beauty.  While  his  poetic  effect 
could  not  be  more  romantic,  Poe's 
method  of  creating  was  analytic, 
coldly  aloof,  and  precise. 
In  exposing  the  technique  where- 
by his  most  famous  poem,  'The 
Raven,''  was  put  together,  it  is  to  be 
his  design 
...  to  render  it  manifest  that  no  one 
point  in  its  composition  is  referable  either 
to  accident  or  intuition  —  that  the  work 
proceeded,  step  by  step,  to  its  completion 
with  the  precision  and  rigid  consequence 
of  a  mathematical  problem. 
Although  Poe  had  written  many 
years  earlier  that  "a  poem  is  opposed 
to  a  work  of  science  by  having  for 
its  immediate  object,  pleasure  not 
truth,"  the  point  of  differentiation 
is  concerned  with  end,  not  means. 
Thus,  in  both,  Poe  was  consistent. 
While  for  the  major  portion  of  his 
adult  life  Poe  was  but  secondarily  a 
poet  and  primarily  a  writer  of  prose, 
his  genius  in  combining  his  poetic 
theory  and  actual  writing  in  such 
poems  as  'To  Helen,"  ''Annabel 
Lee,"  "Ulalume,"  and  especially 
"The  Raven,"  prove  his  achieve- 
ment to  be  unique.  When  read 
aloud,  their  penetration  into  the 
realms  of  our  inner  selves  is  un- 
forgettable. Poe's  explanation  of 
the  structure  of  'The  Raven"  (dedi- 
cated to  Elizabeth  Barrett  Brown- 
ing) has  been  discussed  more  widely 
than  any  other  poem-analysis  ever 
written  in  the  English  language.  No 
equivalent  exists  for  such  lines  as 
the  final  stanzas  of  his  most  suc- 
cessfully contrived  "The  Raven": 
"Be  that  word  our  sign  of  parting,  bird  or 
fiend!"  I  shrieked,  upstarting  — 
"Get  thee  back  into  the  tempest  and  the 
Night's  Plutonian  shore! 
Leave  no  black  plume  as  a  token  of  that 
lie  thy  soul  hath  spoken! 
Leave  my  loneliness  unbroken!  —  quit  the 
bust  above  my  door! 
Take  thy  beak  from  out  my  heart,  and  take 
thy  form  from  off  my  door!" 
Quoth  the  Raven  "Nevermore." 
And  the  Raven,  never  flitting,  still  is  sit- 
ting, still  is  sitting 
On   the   pallid  bust  of   Pallas   just  above 
my  chamber  door; 
And  his  eyes  have  all  the  seeming  of  a 
demon's  that  is  dreaming, 
And    the    lamp-light    o'er    him    streaming 
throws  his  shadow  on  the  floor; 
And  my  soul  from  out  that  shadow  that 
lies  floating  on  the  floor 
Shall  be  lifted  —  nevermore! 
(Text,  page  452). 
Poes  Tales 
Nathaniel  Hawthorne  and  Edgar 
Allan  Poe  mutually  respected  each 
other,  but  parallel  achievements  in 
almost  simultaneously  developing  a 
form  of  writing  —  the  short  story 
(pioneered  by  Washington  Irving) 
were  worked  out  independently  of 
each  other.  Both  were  meticulous 
revisers  and  polished  craftsmen  who 
planned  their  work  most  exactingly, 
then  wrote  to  make  each  word,  each 
description  of  person  or  scene,  each 
dialogue,  contribute  directly  to  the 
story's  central  purpose.  But  while 
Hawthorne's  chief  concern  was  to 
fashion  a  complex  inter-relationship 
of  character  and  event  which  would 
best  give  life  to  his  integrating  moral 
insight,  Poe  ignored  all  moral  issues