[Vol49 | February 1962 | Sequence: 04 | Category: General Feature | Title: 98 Notes From the Field; Relief Society Activities Hulda Parker]
NOTES  FROM  THE  FIELD 
129 
kalua  and  Karratti  were  in  charge  of  the  program.  Eleven  Hawaiian  sisters,  wearing 
colorful  muumuus,  sang  and  danced.  Sister  Golda  Hyde  Gordon  presented  the  literature 
lesson  on  Ralph  Waldo  Emerson  and  made  an  outstanding  contribution  to  the  pro- 
gram. A  piano  solo  was  given  by  Adelaide  Fernandez,  who  is  eighty-four  years  young. 
Her  music  was  amazing,  and  would  have  been  a  credit  to  an  accomplished  pianist 
sixty  years  younger.  A  poem  to  Relief  Society  on  its  119th  anniversary,  written  by 
Maggie  Hill,  was  read  by  Beverly  Wilson,  who  was  dressed  in  pioneer  costume.  Maurine 
Deen  sang  her  own  composition  'Island  Memories,'  accompanying  herself  on  the 
ukelele." 
Photograph  submitted  by  Nada  R.  Brockbank 
SCOTTISH-IRISH   MISSION   RELIEF   SOCIETY  FLOAT   MADE   FOR   THE 
LORD  MAYOR'S  PARADE,  Belfast,  Ireland,  May   13,   1961 
Pictured  as  costumed  for  a  long  trek,  are:  Joan  Farbus;  E.  Gamble;  E.  Bruce;  M. 
Brookes;  Susan  and  Kay  Brookes;  Simone  Farbus;  Sally  Jane  Gamble;  Vivian  Friers. 
Nada  R.  Brockbank,  President,  Scottish-Irish  Mission  Relief  Society,  sends  the 
following  excerpt  from  the  Belfast  Telegraph  newspaper  report  of  this  entry  in  the 
Lord  Mayor's  parade,  titled:  "It's  Still  Tough  Going  West." 
"It's  tough,  traveling  west  in  a  covered  wagon  —  whether  you  are  heading  for 
Salt  Lake  City  or  for  the  Ormeau  Embankment. 
"The  hazards  of  a  journey  from  Dundonald  were  fully  experienced  by  the  Relief 
Society  of  Ireland's  float  which  set  out  for  the  Lord  Mayor's  show  last  Saturday.  Re- 
ports have  just  filtered  through  to  me. 
"The  float  —  a  covered  wagon  complete  with  pioneer  family,  fire,  pots,  cradle, 
butterchurn,  and  two  lads  with  rifles  to  ensure  'safety  in  the  home'  —  was  making  good 
progress  to  the  assembly  point  when  disaster  struck. 
"A  wheel  sheared  off.  With  true  pioneer  spirit,  they  set  about  repairing  it.  Even 
though  it  turned  out  to  be  a  major  engineering  task  needing  expert  help,  the  wagon 
was  soon  rolling  again. 
"But  it  arrived  five  minutes  too  late  for  the  judging  —  and  all  three  judges 
commented  that  they  would  have  had  no  hesitation  in  awarding  it  a  major  prize. 
"It  happens  like  that  —  traveling  west!" 
Sister  Brockbank  reports:  "We  are  ha\ing  good  success  in  our  missionar}'  efforts 
in  Ireland,  thanks  to  our  Singing  Mothers,  and  the  work  and  efforts  of  our  Relief 
Society  sisters."

130 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— FEBRUARY  1962 
Photograph  submitted  by  Evaietta  G.   Thampson 
UNIVERSITY  STAKE  (SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH)  RELIEF  SOCIETY  CHORUS 
PRESENTS  MUSIC  FOR  CLOSING  PROGRAM 
May  28,  1961 
Front  row,  left  to  right:  Sharon  Shields,  stake  organist,  at  the  piano;  Carol  Crist 
(in  black  dress),  stake  chorister;  Karen  McFarland;  Carol  Peck;  Arlene  Lee;  Carolyn 
Wanlass;  Joan  Miles. 
Second  row,  left  to  right:  Marilyn  Conger;  Grace  Vlam,  stake  social  science  class 
leader;  Maureen  Clark;  Pat  Kimball;  Carma  Heywood;  Donna  Fullmer;  Shirlene  Fair- 
bourn;  Elaine  Ellis. 
Third  row,  left  to  right:  Belva  Barlow,  Second  Counselor,  University  Stake  Relief 
Society;  Sylvia  Janson;  Karen  Williams;  Rosalin  Anderson;  Claudia  Goates;  Ann  Jami- 
son, Secretary,  University  Stake  Relief  Society;  Shirley  Hess;  Emma  Jean  Haight; 
Noreen  Hess;  Lynne  Topham. 
Evaietta  G.  Thompson,  President,  University  Stake  Relief  Society,  reports:  'This 
is  the  first  chorus  organized  by  this  stake  Relief  Society  (stake  organized  in  February 
i960),  and  the  two  numbers  presented  were  artfully  done  under  the  direction  of  Carol 
J.  Crist,  chorister,  and  Sharon  R.  Shields,  pianist.  The  chorus  sang  'Lift  Thine  Eyes' 
a  capella,  and  'Eye  Hath  Not  Seen.'  The  closing  program  was  a  spiritual  experience, 
with  Lida  Prince  as  the  principal  speaker.  Refreshments  were  served  in  the  recreation 
hall,  which  had  been  tastefully  decorated  with  many  bouquets  of  fresh  flowers  in  yellow 
and  lavender  colors.  Lovely  background  music  was  furnished  by  a  string  trio.  The 
eighty-five  young  Relief  Society  sisters,  members  of  the  stake  presidency,  high  council, 
and  bishoprics  who  attended  were  richly  rewarded. 
"The  chorus  is  composed  of  young  unmarried  college  girls  and  wives  of  students 
attending  the  University  of  Utah." 
K^louds 
By  Celia  Luce 
IT  takes  clouds  to  make  a  really  beautiful  sunset  —  clouds  as  well  as  sunshine.