The suitcase was only half full—or perhaps it was really only half empty. Julie was going to decide which it was this very day. One more dress would surely make it more full than empty, and that would mean she could leave Hartsville. At first she had tried the objective approach and made a list. She took a piece of paper, folded it in half, and put all the reasons to stay on one side, and all the reasons to go on the other. It didn't work. Somehow, when the disadvantages presented themselves, she got so angry she didn't want to be sitting down writing them all out. Besides, she kept losing the list. (She thoroughly suspected Paul of "losing" it when the disadvantage side got sufficiently long.)

Then she had decided on tangible evidence. She put her suitcase at the foot of the bed, and when something just terrible happened she packed a dress. When something good happened she took one out. There were only two problems. Paul kept stubbing his toes on it when it was his turn to get up at night with the baby. The other problem was that what she had thought would be a short-term decision turned into several months—and half her wardrobe seemed always to be packed in that suitcase.

Julie ran her fingers over the dresses. She laughed when she realized how long it had been since she had worn the blue knit at the bottom. She had put it in the suitcase the day Mr. Stover's cow fell in the town's water supply. They had been sitting in church when Brother Fuller had announced they would need all the men right after the meeting to come to the small reservoir and remove the cow so the open ditches could fill again and supply the houses with washing water (not drinking or cooking water—that had to be brought from the spring five miles down the road).

Julie thought of the first time she had turned on the tap and a dull gray liquid poured out. "Paul! Something is the matter with the pipes." Paul came in and turned on the tap. This time it was brownish-red. "What time is it?" Paul asked. "For goodness sakes, Paul, what difference does that make? You'll have to get somebody to fix it." "It makes a difference, Julie. If you want clean water here you have to get up early. The water comes to the houses in open ditches. The dirt settles out during the night and, if you are one of the first ones up you can have clean water. By this time in the morning the water is well stirred up."

"Paul, please take me away from here. When you said you were going to teach some miners' children who couldn't get down to Hartsville, I really felt we were doing something wonderful... Loving our neighbor and that: sort of thing. I thought it would be... Well, courageous. But it's awful! Just awful!"

Paul put his arms around her. "Julie, these children need me. Their parents only went to the third or fourth grade because there just haven't been schools by the mines. They want so desperately to have something better for their children. If we left now, who would come to take my place? They would lose a whole semester of school, maybe more. Please stay."

It had been a long time since she had worn the green wool, too. She had been leaving the little store and post office when she saw Jerry Barton race by, followed closely by three other young boys just out of school. "Look out, Jerry!" she screamed, but not soon enough. Jerry crashed headfirst into the telephone booth. His body slumped limply beside the shattered glass. Blood spurted from a deep slash on the side of his head and neck.

Julie grabbed the clean diaper tucked beside Troy in the stroller, folded it quickly, and ran to Jerry. Her arms slipped around his unconscious body, her hand applying pressure with the folded diaper. "Billy, run for Jerry's mother. Tell her to bring the car and not to stop to call the doctor. Run, Billy, like you never ran before." Billy ran like a frightened rabbit.

"Roger, tell Mrs. Riley to come out here and call the doctor in Fairgrove. We'll meet him in the emergency room of the hospital." Roger left.

"Jim, you take Troy over to your house and tell your mother I've gone with Mrs. Barton to the hospital—and Jim, you take good care of my boy."

Mrs. Barton pulled the car to a screeching halt alongside the booth, dashed out of the car, and started toward Jerry. "Get back in, Ellen. I'll drive." It was Brother Fuller from the store. He lifted Jerry into Mrs. Barton's arms, turned to Julie and spoke quietly.

"Pray, Julie, or we can't make it in time."

 

The car sped off in a shower of gravel. Julie started off after Troy, ashen faced and limp. Four hours later Brother Fuller knocked at their door to report they had driven the forty-five miles to Fairgrove in twenty-five minutes. Jerry had survived. It was no less than a miracle, but Julie understood the anguish Mrs. Barton had felt. If Troy had an emergency how could she make it to the hospital in time? There would be no car for Julie. Paul needed it to drive the twelve miles to his one-room schoolhouse at Little Creek. No, a young mother without a car shouldn't be here.

And that night she packed away the green wool. The blue sweater had been in the suitcase twice. Julie put it in the night Paul told her they were going to have a potluck supper at the church. Julie was elated. There were no movies, no TV in Hartsville. Church events provided their sole entertainment.

"When is it?" she asked eagerly.

"Next Friday."

"Oh, not next Friday, Paul— that's the 28th and you won't get paid until the next Monday. What did they tell you to bring?"

"A casserole for eighteen," Paul answered hesitantly.

Julie wanted to cry—she wanted to cry so much she became cross.

"Who ever heard of living in a town with only one little store—a store that doesn't carry bread because the women bake their own—and practically no meat because the men prefer deer and pheasants." Julie disliked wild game, but in desperation had given in to deer meat.

"Can't you make something out of the deer meat in our locker?" Paul was trying to be helpful.

Paul Scott, how long do you think one small deer lasts when you have to have it every night for three months? Do you know what's left in our locker? Three packages of ribs. Do you know why we've had scrambled eggs for supper the last two nights? Because I'm still trying to muster the courage to eat deer ribs." They were both silent then. Julie wasn't angry with Paul, but, for the moment, she wished he had chosen to stay in Los Angeles. He could have made almost double his present salary there; but Paul had some kind of gnawing inside him. It made him feel that people blessed with good things—education for example—had an obligation to share them with others. Julie's feelings softened as she thought of what a good man Paul was. "Paul," she started, but Paul interrupted. "Julie, I have an idea." Julie brightened. "Yes?" "How about a rabbit casserole?" "Rabbit!" she shrieked. "And what's next—prairie dogs, porcupine?" And with that she went into the bedroom to pack the blue sweater. On Friday she took it out. Thursday, she read in Paul's Sportsman's Magazine that rabbit has a flavor like chicken. She thought about it, got out her cookbooks, and decided her feelings about wild game weren't going to keep her from that dinner. "Paul," she asked timidly when he came home from school, "do you suppose you could try to get us a rabbit or two for the supper tomorrow night?" When she was besieged for the recipe for her "chicken casserole" she never told. She just took the blue sweater out of the suitcase. She put it back the day the gas bill came. When Paul opened the door that evening he found Julie in the hallway carrying an ax. "Where are you going with my ax?" he questioned with surprise. Julie answered calmly, "I am going to convert the gas heater to a wood heater, and I'm about to start my wood supply." As Paul stood dumfounded, Julie started up the stairs. "That's not the way to the chopping stump." "I am starting my wood supply, Mr. Scott, from the useless second story of this drafty, miserable old barn." And up she went. Of course Paul went up after her. "You're joking," he said, as he caught hold of her arm—the one with the ax in it just to be sure— "I mean—you've got to be joking!" "You think I'm joking!" she answered, and thrust the month's gas bill into his hand. "The way you were joking, I suppose, when you told me we were going to have a big three-bedroom house to live in. A fine three-bedroom house it is—two bedrooms upstairs with no heat, and the bottom story so drafty even our relatives won't stay overnight." Paul looked down at the bill and collapsed on the top step. The Suitcase It was $65. Julie marched down to the bedroom, ax still in hand, to pack the blue sweater again. The yellow dress was put in the day she "broke" the sheet. Everything went wrong that day. Troy fell out of the high chair, the pilot light went out on the stove, and she spilled a bucket of wash water all over the kitchen floor. By the time she was able to get the washing off the line, the sheet had frozen. When she pulled it, the whole corner popped off as if it had been pottery. Paul thought it was funny that every other week they would have an automatically turn down corner. Julie didn't laugh—it was on her side of the bed. The gray skirt had been put in the night she was awakened by a sudden shrieking howl. She had sat straight up in bed, eyes wide and heart pounding. "What's that?" "What's what?" Paul had yawned and turned over. "Didn't you hear it?" "It must have been the wind. Go back to sleep." Paul didn't take kindly to being awakened for nothing. Getting up with Troy was enough. Julie wasn't convinced. She leaned back on the pillow, but she didn't close her eyes. She had just decided she might as well try to go back to sleep when the howl came again. It was right beneath their bed. "Paul!" she screamed and pounded his shoulder. "Wake up! It's under the bed!" Paul was awake now. He flicked on the light and blinked his eyes. He looked under the bed, and then finding nothing, shushed Julie into silence so he could listen. In a moment the howling began again. Paul gave a relieved sigh, clicked off the light, and climbed back into bed. Bed. "Nothing to worry about, honey. You remember Delyle, the Government trapper? Well, he says there're badgers, coyotes, and bobcats that come into town in the winter to get out of the cold. It's just one of them under the house." "Coyotes badgers bobcats?" Julie repeated numbly "... Under the house." She stepped out of bed, clicked the light on, and packed the gray skirt. The white blouse was packed just yesterday. Paul's car had skidded off the icy pavement near the turn into the school grounds. Even truck drivers said it was a treacherous piece of road. Paul was lucky, or, as he said, blessed that he wasn't injured. Today the roads were clear, but she wondered about the next storm. Would he make it through that, too? Julie couldn't keep the suitcase at the bottom of the bed any longer. It was either time to go, or time to stay. The balance certainly seemed to indicate a time to go. Troy cried. Julie lifted him gently from the crib and snuggled him to her cheek. "Almost ready for lunch, sweetheart?" Troy giggled contentedly as she carried him into the kitchen and settled him momentarily in the playpen. "Better move this," Julie said aloud, as she picked up Paul's sweater he had hastily thrown over the chair that morning. "The color clashes with strained carrots." A wrinkled piece of school paper fell from the pocket. Julie picked it up and moved toward the wastebasket. It was probably nothing, but she had learned never to throw away any paper, however insignificant or ragged, without looking to see what it was, first. This time it wasn't one of Paul's "idea" notes. The writing was scrawled and smudgy. Dear Mr. Scott: Sally told us kids you wasn't coming back next term. When I told my foks my ma cried. She told us to pray hard so I been praying long as I can. I got a job raking tailings after school and I will give you my 50¢ if you won't go. I love you, Billy Julie studied the wrinkled note until all the words seemed to run together. She folded it carefully and tucked it back in the pocket. Then she looked at Troy. "You be a good boy, Troy. I'll be back in a minute to get your lunch, but right now I've got some unpacking to do." THE FLOWERING Regret is the small taut rosebud, Petals folded tense and new; Repentance is the rose in flower, Spangled with crystal dew.