SPIRITUAL LIVING % * % Pearl of Great Price: | % % AY * AK AK 6 2K 2K 2K KK KKK KK KK Lesson 2 The Doctrine of the Godhead Reading Assignment: Books of Moses and Abraham Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, Southern Hemisphere: First Meeting, OBJECTIVE: To assist each Latter-day Saint woman better to fulfill her purpose in life by assuring her that God revealed to Adam a true knowledge of the Godhead that Adam's posterity might be reared in light and truth.

The assumption of all scripture is that God lives. There is no attempt to prove that he lives, but man must rely upon what he has said about himself through his prophets. There was one occasion, however, when Korihor, the anti-Christ of The Book of Mormon, contended with the Prophet Alma over the question of God's existence. (Al. 30:19-48.) Korihor said he did not deny the existence of God, but he did not believe that there was a God, and he charged Alma with not knowing that there was a God, and he asked for a sign. (V. 48.) Alma answered: Thou hast had signs enough; will ye tempt your God? Will ye say, Show unto me a sign, when ye have the testimony of all these thy brethren, and also all the holy prophets? The scriptures are laid before thee, yea, and all things denote there is a God; yea, even the earth, and all things that are upon the face of it, yea, and its motion, yea, and also all the planets which move in their regular form do witness that there is a Supreme Creator. (Al. 30:44.)

The Prophet Joseph Smith said that it was the first principle of the gospel to know for a certainty the character of God and "to know that we may converse with him as one man converses with another." (Joseph Fielding Smith Comp., Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, [Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Company, 1938] p. 345.)

The Savior declared in praying to his Father: "And this is life eternal, that they might know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent." (John 17:3.)

Class Discussion

Why do you think that a knowledge of God is necessary in order for one to receive eternal life or godhood?

The doctrine of God as known in many of the so-called "Christian" creeds is that there is one God, without body, parts, or passions; consequently, God is a spirit only. The Nicene Creed, formulated in the year 325, declared that there is one God, yet there are three Gods. An excerpt from that creed illustrates this doctrine: "So the Father is God, the Son is God, and the Holy Ghost is God, and yet there are not three Gods but one God." (James E. Talmage. The Articles of Faith [Boston: University Press, 1890], p. 48.)

Latter-day Saint belief in the Godhead is expressed in the first Article of Faith, as follows: We believe in God, the Eternal Father, and in His Son, Jesus Christ, and in the Holy Ghost.

Members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints have received, from the many revelations through the Prophet Joseph Smith, a true knowledge of the Godhead. The first of these revelations was the First Vision, received in the spring of 1820, when Joseph Smith was a young man in his fifteenth year. The following account of this experience restored the true understanding of two of the three Personages in the Godhead.

I saw two Personages, whose brightness and glory defy all description, standing above me in the air. One of them spake unto me, calling me by name and said, pointing to the other—This is My Beloved Son. Hear Him! (Joseph Smith 2:17.)

That God the Father and his Son Jesus Christ are separate beings of flesh and bone, and that the Holy Ghost, a personage of spirit, is the third member of the Godhead, was subsequently revealed. (D&C 130:22-23.)

From the Pearl of Great Price we learn that there were three members known to ancient prophets. In the account of the creation, we read the following:

And I, God, said unto mine Only Begotten, which was with me from the beginning: Let us make man in our image, after our likeness; and it was so. (Moses 2:26.)

Reuben Clark, Jr., when he said: You will hear... Not infrequently that the God of the Old Testament is different from the God of the New Testament; that the God of the Old Testament has evolved into the God of the New—rather a rapid evolution, if it were true.... When that doctrine is reduced down, it means this: that God is what man conceives him to be; that man creates his God, instead of God creating man. No greater falsehood can be promulgated than that. (Conference Report, , p. 100.)

Jesus Christ is the Only Begotten, the Son of the Eternal Father in the flesh and the Firstborn in the spirit. He is known as the Creator, for under the direction of the Father, he created worlds. During his mortal life he became man's example as the perfect being, but as President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., said: He came here; he restored the Gospel; he fulfilled the law of Moses; he did away with sacrifice; he declared to the people on this continent that thereafter their sacrifice was to be "a broken heart and a contrite spirit." (III Nephi 9:20)

He lived, he died, was crucified, lay in the tomb, was resurrected, and by that act of sacrifice he made certain that every man and woman born to this earth will be resurrected. This was his work as Redeemer.

Now I want merely to leave with you this thought: That Jesus, the Christ, was a God before he came here, was a member of the Trinity. He was divinely conceived. He was half-Deity while he was here, but shackled with mortality. That from here he went to the other side to resume his position in the Trinity, again resuming his full Godship. ("Jesus The Christ—Creator and Redeemer," BYU Speeches of the Year, May 22, 1956.)

Jesus Christ is the Mediator between God and man. He is our Advocate who defends or pleads for us. (Luke 22:31-32; John 17:11-26.) He is our Atoner whereby obedient men may return to God's presence.

Class Discussion
Why is the mission of Jesus Christ as Savior and Redeemer his principal function?

In his role as God of the Old Testament period, Jesus Christ or Jehovah; after the fall of Adam and his expulsion from the Garden of Eden; communicated with his prophets upon the earth. (D&C 76:12-14.)