CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Lesson 2 A Thankful Heart Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volumes 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas Northern Hemisphere: Fourth meeting, Southern Hemisphere: Fourth meeting, OBJECTIVE: To encourage within a woman a spirit of faith and gratitude to God and an attitude of reverence and worship through poetry and the other arts.

We thank Thee, gracious Lord of Hosts,
For all Thy generous hand.
Within the circle of our coasts,
Showers on the teeming land.

We thank Thee for the budding flower
In summer glory drest,
A revelation of the power
Through nature manifest.

Theodore E. Curtis

ART "Sunflowers" by Claude Monet (1840-1926)
French, Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York.
(Reproduction of Painting, page 448, )

COMMENTARY We are grateful to the great artists in every field for what they reveal to us of the beauty of life that surrounds us and for the truth that is an essential part of what they seek to portray.

During the latter quarter of the nineteenth century in France, a group of artists led by Claude Monet (sometimes called the pacemaker of impressionism) were instrumental in discovering or inventing a different approach to painting now called impressionism. These artists were largely concerned with capturing the momentary, the transitory, the spontaneous instant, and fixing it permanently on the canvas. Their great interest was to discover a way to represent the vibrancy of light, color, and atmosphere.

Instead of mixing the colors on the palette and then placing them in the space on the canvas, they felt a greater feeling of vibrant light would occur if spots of contrasting colors were placed next to each other on the canvas, then viewed at a distance, allowing the colors to mix in the eye of the viewer. The sensation received was very exciting, more real, and similar to the instant sensation a viewer might have of a first impression.

If you will look closely at the juxtaposed spots of color in the painting "Sunflowers," you will see the contrasting colors placed next to each other—red against green, yellow next to violet, orange next to blue. The impressionists revelled in the beautiful shimmer of reflected light and the richness of nature. Like "Sunflowers," their works are almost a hymn of praise to the beauty of light.

In Volume 1 of Out of the Best Books (p. 49) we wrote: "Through the centuries men of literature, and especially poets, have traditionally been champions of the spirit and defenders of the faith."

In Volume 4 (p. 179) we said: "Music delights us when we are happy, comforts us when we mourn, gives courage when we are frightened, stirs us when we are apathetic, sustains us when we are soul-troubled, and fills us with religious adoration when we worship."

As we ponder the noble painting and sculpture of Michelangelo and other great masters, or contemplate the messages of our Latter-day Saint artists (for example, "Life from Death," reprinted with commentary in Volume 3, pp. 240-42 of Out of the Best Books), we realize the visual arts can likewise stimulate and deepen our spiritual responses.

Throughout the five volumes of Out of the Best Books are found many stories, poems, essays, and discussions which express faith or relate to it in some significant way. In fact, three sections are centered on the subject of faith: pp. 47-107 of Volume 1, pp. 239-82 of Volume 3, and pp. 67-102 of Volume 4.

In addition, many individual selections spread throughout the five volumes also pertain to faith in one way or another. It is not the purpose of this lesson to reexamine all of those past selections. Rather, the purpose here is to bring together from the five volumes a few choice selections, especially some lovely short poems, and review these as expressions of reverence and worship.

The month of November, when we celebrate Thanksgiving in the United States and all the world is looking forward to Christmas, seems a particularly appropriate month for such a lesson. Any or all of the following poems may be reviewed as especially suitable for study in this lesson and for use wherever short poems of faith and inspiration may be appropriate.

"The Lamb" by William Blake, vol. 1, pp. 91-92.
"T Never Saw a Moor" by Emily Dickinson, vol. 1, p. 93.
"Little Jesus" by Francis Thompson, vol. 1, pp. 94-95.
"The Windhover" by Gerard Manley Hopkins, vol. 1, pp. 96-101.
"'God's Grandeur" by Gerard Manley Hopkins, vol. 1, pp. 102-4.
"Still Falls the Rain" by Edith Sitwell, vol. 1, pp. 105-7.
"The Hound of Heaven" by Francis Thompson, vol. 1, pp. 343-51.
Sonnet 146 by William Shakespeare, vol. 1, pp. 453-54.
"'Death Be Not Proud" by John Donne, vol. 1, pp. 455-56.
"'And Death Shall Have No Dominion" by Dylan Thomas, vol. 1, pp. 457-58.
"The Leaden Echo" and "The Golden Echo" by Gerard Manley Hopkins, vol. 2, pp. 347-50.
Sonnet 19 "On His Blindness" by John Milton, vol. 3, pp. 108-9.
"'Lead, Kindly Light" by John Henry Newman, vol. 3, pp. 149-50.
"'To My Dear and Loving Husband" by Anne Bradstreet, vol. 3, p. 226.
"'First Lesson" by Philip Booth, vol. 3, pp. 252-53.
Sonnet III by George Santayana, vol. 3, pp. 254-55.
"'The Tide of Faith" by George Eliot, vol. 3, pp. 276-77.
"'A Good Night" by Francis Quarles, vol. 3, pp. 278-79.
Psalms 8 and 23, vol. 4, p. 71.

Lesson Department
"Crossing the Bar" by Alfred Lord Tennyson, vol. 4, pp. 78-79.
"'Uphill" by Christina Rossetti, vol. 4, p. 80.
"'Conversations at Midnight" by Edna St. Vincent Millay, vol. 4, pp. 223-24.

In addition to the poems listed above, readers may wish to reread Joseph Mazzini's essay "Faith and the Future" (vol. 3, pp. 248-51), William Jennings Bryan's essay "Faith" (vol. 3, pp. 256-61), and William James's essay "The Will to Believe" (vol. 3, pp. 280-82).

We also draw attention to the introductory comments for the section on "The Comfort of Faith" in Volume 4 with the powerful statements on faith by William Faulkner, President John F. Kennedy, and Thomas Carlyle (pp. 69-70). And for any who may have missed it, we reprint here from Volume 4 (pp. 14-15) the profoundly beautiful excerpt from John Donne's "Meditation 17," in which he expresses so superbly his faith in God and his feeling for human interdependence:

All mankind is of one author, and is one volume; when one man dies, one chapter is not torn out of the book, but translated into a better language; and every chapter must be so translated. God employs several translators; some pieces are translated by age, some by sickness, some by war, some by justice; but God's hand is in every translation, and his hand shall bind up all our scattered leaves again for that library where every book shall lie open to one another.

No man is an island entire of itself; every man is a piece of the continent, a part of the main.

If a clod be washed away by the sea, Europe is the less, as well as if a promontory were, as well as if a manor of thy friend's or of thine own were. Any man's death diminishes me, because I am involved in mankind, and therefore never send to know for whom the bell tolls; it tolls for thee.

Neither can we call this a begging of misery, or a borrowing of misery, as though we were not miserable enough of ourselves but must fetch in more from the next house, in taking upon us the misery of our neighbors. Truly it were an excusable covetousness if we did, for affliction is a treasure, and scarce any man hath enough of it. No man hath affliction enough that is not matured and ripened by it and made fit for God by that affliction.... Tribulation is a treasure in the nature of it, but it is not current money in the use of it, except we get nearer and nearer our home, heaven, by it.

Another man may be sick too, and sick to death, and this affliction may lie in his bowels as gold in a mine and be of no use to him; but this bell that tells me of his affliction digs out and applies that gold to me, if by this consideration of another's danger I take mine own into contemplation, and so secure myself by making my recourse to my God, who is our only security.

Discussion Questions
1. What responsibilities of compassion, understanding, and happiness are suggested by Donne's statement, "no man is an island"?
2. How can we be "matured" and "ripened" and "made fit for God" by affliction and tribulation?

Some readers may think of this great passage as prose, but it is really more poetry than prose, having compression of thought and emotion and the rich imagery of language that characterize poetry. It is intended that poets should have the main voice in this lesson on "A Thankful Heart," for it is to poetry that we turn when we want man's most appealing expressions of faith— to the lovely Psalms of David in the Old Testament, or to some of the beautiful hymns of worship (poems set to music) that we sing in our Sunday Schools and sacrament meetings, or to such poems as the ones listed earlier in this lesson.

These are not the only poems of faith, reverence, and worship in Out of the Best Books, but they are perhaps the ones most firm as expressions of faith, except for selections by Browning and Wordsworth to be included in special lessons later in the year. Most of the poems in the list are beautifully lucid and will communicate with no special difficulty to all readers, particularly with the aid of the brief discussions in the books.

For readers who want the challenge of more complex works, Francis Thompson's "The Hound of Heaven" and the three poems by Hopkins mentioned in the list will be especially stimulating.

We print here several of the shorter poems as space allows for the benefit of those readers who may not have the books:

"'The Lamb'" by William Blake
Little Lamb, who made thee?
Dost thou know who made thee?
Gave thee life, and bid thee feed
By the stream and o'er the mead;
Gave thee clothing of delight,
Softest clothing, woolly, bright;
Gave thee such a tender voice,
Making all the vales rejoice?
Little Lamb, who made thee?
Dost thou know who made thee?
Little Lamb, I'll tell thee,
Little Lamb, I'll tell thee.
He is called by thy name,
For he calls himself a Lamb,
He is meek and he is mild;
He became a little child,
I a child, and thou a lamb,
We are called by his name.
Little Lamb, God bless thee!
Little Lamb, God bless thee! New Magazine Binding Prices and Postage Rates

A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume.

Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service.
Cloth Cover - $3.50; Leather Cover - $5.50
Yearly Index Included

Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed.

Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah:
Zone 1 and 2: 27¢

1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104

Fotal Electric Living
Lesson Department

"Never Saw a Moor" by Emily Dickinson

I never saw a moor,
P. - I never saw the sea;
All grain, stone grinding yet.
Flour mill today.

Yet know I how the heather looks,
And what a wave must be.

I never spoke with God,
Nor visited in Heaven;
Immediate delivery.
Yet certain am I of the spot
As if it were given.

Also available: High protein wheat for use or storage.

Discussion Question:
What common factors are found in these two poems which add to their appeal?

For full information, write:

Sonnet 146 by William Shakespeare

Alas! So many ties to tie
The threads of life, and yet so few
To break them with. O, what a grief
To have our sinful earth so near,
And yet not see the soul's dear sphere!
Ged. ag.

Why dost thou pine within and suffer
Dept. R. S.
Dearth, P. O. Box 
Painting thy outward walls so costly gay?
Tremonton, Utah 84337

Why so large cost, having so short a lease,
Doth thou upon thy fading mansion spend?
Openings available for full or part-time sales representatives.

Shall worms, inheritors of this excess,
Eat up thy charge? Is this thy body's end?

Then, soul, live thou upon thy servant's loss,
And let that pine to aggravate thy store;
Buy terms divine in selling hours of dross:
So shalt thou feed on Death that feeds on men.
And Death once dead, there's no more dying then.

Kathy Five prayers
Exquisitely bound in white moire with gold lettering

Discussion Question:
What is the central meaning of this sonnet?

Other of the "Brice" Lead, Kindly Light by John Henry Newman

Other of the "Brice"
Lead, Kindly Light, amid the encircling gloom,
Lead Thou me on! HandKraft Art and Publishing Co.
The night is dark, and I am far from home;
Lead Thou me on!

Please send me ________ copies of
WEDDING PRAYERS by Kathryn Kay
The at $1.75 each plus 25¢ postage and
6323 ao Salt Lake City, Utah 84106

WEDDING PRAYERS by Kathryn Kay
The at $1.75 each plus 25¢ postage and

Handling for which I enclose $_ | was not ever thus, nor prayed that Thou a D M.0.0 Shouldst lead me on. _ _ _ I loved to choose and see my path; but STATE "ZIP Lead Thou me on! PLAN YOUR VACATION WITH US CANADIAN ROCKIES and NORTHWEST TOUR August 17-30 K HAWAII ALOHA TOUR October 8-21 Call or write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 Betsey MUSIC COMPANY "Singing Mothers'' ''Choir Directors'' We specialize in Mail Order Service Sheet Music Pianos And Supplies \ Chenezper ~ Instruments Come in and Acquaint yourself with our music department Home of the world's finest Mason and Hamlin pianos Yes! We Ship All Over the World. -NEW ADDRESS-. South West Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Phone: 364-6518 638 | loved the garish day, and, spite of fears, Pride ruled my will; remember not past years. So long Thy power hath blessed me, sure it still Will lead me on, O'er moor and fen, o'er crag and torrent, till The night is gone; And with the morn those angel faces smile Which | have loved long since, and lost awhile. Discussion Questions 1. What does the "Kindly Light" in line one symbolize? 2. What does Newman mean in line three when he says: "The night is dark and I am far from home." What is the night? Where is home? 3. What is the implication of the last line of the poem? "To My Dear and Loving Husband" by Anne Bradstreet If ever two were one, then surely we. If ever man were loved by wife, then thee; If ever wife was happy in a man, Compare with me ye women if you can. I prize thy love more than whole mines of gold, Or all the riches that the East doth hold. My love is such that rivers cannot quench, Nor ought but love from thee give recompense. Thy love is such | can no way repay; The heavens reward thee manifold, | pray. Then while we live, in love let's so persevere, That when we live no more we may live ever. These lovely poems center in both faith and gratitude. The two are inseparable. When faith is strong, we are filled with gratitude to God for all that he has given us and for the assurance of all that lies ahead. When gratitude is strong, faith follows naturally, growing richer and deeper with each thing for which we are thankful. Mrs. Amanda Crum Angle 100 99 97 96 95 94 93 San Diego, California Mrs. Annie Catherine Ericksen Benson Logan, Utah Mrs. Jemima Chelnecha Damron Barron Inkom, Idaho Mrs. Anna Kristina Nielson Busk Elsinore, Utah Mrs. Rosa Oditha Calvin Thomas Meeker, Colorado Mrs. Marcia Armstrong Jolley Provo, Utah Mrs. Gustella Wilkins Larson Phoenix, Arizona Mrs. Olivia Malmquist Sandberg Montebello, California Mrs. Anna Marilla Davis Brown Provo, Utah Mrs. Hannah Encora Batty Follett Elgin, Oregon Mrs. Edith Adams Smith Centerville, Utah Mrs. Esther Sperry Farnsworth Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Ida May Briles Heryford Red Bluff, California Mrs. Jane Agar Lawton Brainerd, Minnesota Mrs. Isabella King Armstrong Stacey Simpson Laramie, Wyoming Mrs. Josephine Rasmussen Atwood Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Roberta Flake Clayton Mesa, Arizona Mrs. Georgiana Hill Hawkins Winnemucca, Nevada Mrs. Alice Speer Stice Humphrey Lehi, Utah Mrs. Ann Martine McCormick Fredonia, Arizona 92 90 Mrs. Charlotte Norris Wonnacott Long Beach, California Mrs. Ellen Rigby Brown Centerville, Utah Mrs. Lenora Zylks Gibson Rodessa, Louisiana Mrs. Ada Alzina Harper Martin Central, Arizona Mrs. Annie Turner Worley Wellington, Utah Mrs. Abbie Wordsworth Ashcroft Springville, Utah Mrs. Ida Mary Upton Clark Keiraville, N. S. Wales, Australia Mrs. Louise Johnson Coleman Provo, Utah Mrs. Elnora Anderson Jensen Cleveland, Utah Mrs. Olga Petersen Larsen Logan, Utah Mrs. Christina Lindsay Hermosa Beach, California Mrs. Susannah Jane Sly Sampson Delta, Utah Mrs. Rachel King Slutznegger Manti, Utah Mrs. Alice Gygi Magny Buhrley Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Annie Naomi Butterworth Christensen Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Emma McCarrell Holmes Vernal, Utah Mrs. Ella M.