[Vol10 | June 1923 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Frontispiece | Title: The Sacred Falls of Kaliuwaa, Hawaii Frontispiece]

THE SACRED FALLS oF KALIUWAA, HAWAII 
 Relief Society Conference Minutes Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary The annual conference of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, was held in Salt Lake City, April 4 and 5, 1923. The conference consisted of five meetings, two officers' meetings for staké officers only, two general sessions for officers and members, and a special meeting for stake presidents. President Clarissa S. Williams presided at each of the sessions and gave important instructions and advice relative to the work of the great organization. This being the yearly official conference of the society, there was an unusually good official representation from the stakes, and at the general sessions the Assembly Hall was taxed to capacity to accommodate those who desired admission. Eighteen members of the General Board were in attendance; 84 of the 88 stakes in the organization were represented, with 377 stake officers, as follows: presidents, 64; counselors, 64; secretary-treasurers and assistants, 38; special officers and board members, 211; three missions were represented: the California, the Western States, the Northwestern States. At the afternoon session in the Assembly Hall, 2,500 people were congregated, in the seats, in the aisles, and in the doorways. The music, under the direction of General Chorister Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, assisted by Mrs. Edna Coray, organist, was well chosen and artistically rendered. The choir was at its best, and was a source of pride to those assembled. The ushers for the meetings were furnished by the Salt Lake stake and gave most excellent service in directing and seating the vast congregations. On Wednesday evening, April 4, the General Board entertained the stake representatives at a pageant at the Salt Lake Assembly Hall, which was arranged and conducted by the Ensign stake Relief Society, through the courtesy of the president, 
 Elise B. Alder. The pageant entitled, "Organization of the First Relief Society, and Wheel of Progress," was staged and directed by Mrs. Nettie Maeser McAllister, a member of the Ensign stake board. A prologue and tableau were first presented which was followed by a scene which pictured the first organization of the Relief Society. Five spokes, representing health, employment, education, recreation, and: spirituality, formed the wheel of progress, which were brought together at the close, making an effective finale. On Friday afternoon, April 6, President Clarissa S. Williams gave a reception in honor of the stake and mission presidents, at her beautiful home in Federal Heights. President Williams, who is known throughout the city for her hospitality, was a most charming hostess. She was assisted in receiving and entertaining by the members of the General Board, and by the following stake presidents who are all residents of Salt Lake City: Mrs. Leonora T. Harrington, Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford, Mrs. Elise B. Alder, Mrs. Mary A. Cutler, and Mrs. Myrtle B. Shurtliff. The musical program was given by some of the young musicians of the city, and delicious refreshments were served. OFFICERS' MEETING Morning Session Presiden: Clarissa S. Williams President Williams, in brief opening remarks, welcomed the large gathering of women and expressed her appreciation for the splendid representation. Mrs. Williams stated that among the many things for which she is grateful is the restoration to health of Counselor Louise Y. Robison, who has been seriously ill for several months. The Relief Society is, at present, in splendid condition. The General Board found, through the visits of its members, to the various stake conferences, during the past year, that excellent work is being done by all the stake organizations and that a beautiful spirit of love and united purpose exists everywhere. For the first time in many years every stake was visited. President Williams, in company with President Heber J. Grant and party, visited the Juarez stake, in Mexico, which was the first visit that has been made by the Relief Society to Mexico, since the revolution. Counselor Jennie B. Knight Counselor Knight stated that she felt it a great honor and privilege to be permitted to welcome such a large and alert group of women to this official conference. She stated that she is grate- RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 271 ful for the privilege of being considered worthy of working in the Relief Society, and she appreciates the opportunity of working with loyal and devoted women. The Relief Society should be thankful for the able leadership and wise guidance of President Williams. Because President Williams hag been blessed with good health, she has been able not only to direct the work of the organization but to visit many of the stakes of the Church. Mrs. Knight assured the Relief Society women that, if they worked with faith, no events or circumstances could make them fail. Every Relief Society officer will gain strength and confidence that she can discharge her various duties property, if she works with faith. To be an officer in the Relief Society is a great honor and every woman who is called to be an officer in this organization should be thankful that she has been deemed worthy to be selected for this important calling. Mrs. Knight likened this gathering to the feasts of ancient times. In the olden days the Hebrews observed certain feasts; among them were the feasts of the Sabbath, the Tabernacle, and the Passover. Only men were permitted to attend these feasts. But in this modern dispensation, the women, through their official organization, the Relief Society, are privileged to attend the spiritual feasts and partake of the spirit and blessings of the occasion. The Relief Society offers an opportunity for the cultivation of friendship—friendship that grows out of the contact afforded by an organization whose members have common purposes, which purposes all tend toward human good and uplift. Mrs. Knight rejoiced in the large gathering and welcomed all the women present to the conference. She stated that to her the Relief Society is a great woman's organization, the like of which does not exist elsewhere in the world, for the Relief Society was organized by the prophet and gives to the women a medium of self-development and a field for human service. Mrs. Julia A. Child, Member of General Board ELEMENTS OF A LESSON Mrs, Julia A. Child treated the subject "Elements of a Lesson." She divided her subject into two topics, first, the teacher's preparation, and second, the presentation of the lesson to the class. The first step in making a preparation is to read 'the lesson matter carefully. This, however, should not be considered a complete preparation, but only a beginning. After the subject matter has been read, an aim should be carefully selected. There may be several possible aims in any lesson, but the one selected should become the major aim around which all minor aims and 
 elements revolve. The aim should grow out of the lesson material, and should be definite and worthy. By a worthy aim, is meant a point that is worthy of the time of preparation on the part of the teacher, and of the class. 'After the selection of the aim, the lesson should be re-read, and additional references studied. Incidents, pictures, and illustrations should be gathered, supplementing the subject matter of the text. After additional material has been gathered, the teacher should organize and evaluate this material, eliminating non-essentials, selecting main headings and correlating the various parts into a unified whole. In presenting the lesson, the class mind should first be prepared for the subject to be discussed.