the General Board Mrs. Emma A. Empey reported that there are now seventeen enrolled members in the Relief Society nurse aids' class in training in the Latter-day Saints' Hospital. The students are doing RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 287 very good work. Mrs. Empey announced that there would be a new class in August and that ten girls would be admitted at that a She urged the wards, in recommending girls for the train-, to keep in mind that they should have the spirit of service, ad be of such a character as to live up to the religious ideals of the Church. She should also be in perfect health and the examination by the doctor should be a thorough one. Several inquiries have been received asking if the Relief Society should advance the money for a girl's training. If a girl who does not have the funds desires to take the course, she should arrange herself to borrow money. In some instances the Relief Society may wish to lend her the money, but it should be done on a strictly business basis; the girl should be required to sign a note and she should repay the money after she has completed the course. As a general rule, the Relief Society recommends that girls who are interested in nursing and who have sufficient high school education to admit them to a three-year course, take the longer: course. The Latter-day Saints' Hospital, in Salt Lake City, and the Dee Hospital, in Ogden, both conducted by the Church, offer regular three-year training. The Salt Lake County Hospital also offers a good training course. The Relief Society nurse aids' course requires that the girl have an eighth grade education, or its equivalent. INSTRUCTIONS President Clarissa S. Williams Wheat: The storing of wheat should be discontinued. Any wards which still have "storage wheat on hand should arrange to have it sold and the proceeds added to the wheat trust fund held in the Presiding Bishop's Office. It is advised that the Relief Society should not collect more wheat for the purpose of storing it. The