[Vol24 | October 1937 | Sequence: 29 | Category: Guide | Title: THE COURAGE OF JESUS]

Teacher's Topic
Lesson 4

THE COURAGE OF JESUS

Yearly Aim—"That we may see more clearly the character of Jesus and become so enraptured with him that we will strive to transform ourselves more and more into his image."

HAVE not I commanded thee, be strong and of a good courage; be not afraid, neither be thou dismayed: for the Lord thy God is with thee whither soever thou goest." Joshua 1:9.

"Any one can get up courage for an hour. But to be patiently heroic daily is the test of character."

"When clouds gather fast stand by your helm. Many a ship has been saved because the courage of the skipper was greater than the fury of the storm."

Courage is a virtue held in universal esteem. There has never been an age in which it has not been deemed a praiseworthy and a precious thing. Some of the world's greatest achievements have been made possible through this foundation stone of character. It is this element of courage, greater than all else, which helps individuals to heed the call of each day's struggle and combat all things that lead to failure and despair.

In the character of Jesus we find a pattern for all men—In him we find bravery at its best, courage at its loftiest. His was not a physical courage, possessed alike by man and beast; it was not a military courage, that kind which sends a soldier across the field into a burst of flame, carried forward by the very momentum of the movement; Nor was it that occasional courage that is satisfied with one great moment of exertion and of risks. His was the courage of mind and the heroism of the heart; the courage of commonplace days manifested hour by hour.

True, the New Testament gives us many illustrations of the courage of Jesus, both thrilling and picturesque, such as his cleansing of the Temple, or when he came from the Garden of Gethsemane and startled the band of men who had come to arrest him by saying "I am the man you seek."

Think of Christ's appointed work, the greatest that ever was to be done upon the earth. What toils, what grievances attended his mighty task—If he had wearied, lost courage—what then! He came to this world to serve mankind, bringing its greatest blessings, eternal life and exaltation. Instead of receiving him with gratitude as mediator and Savior he was rejected and crucified.

"His life was a tragedy of ingratitudes"—What courage one must have to go steadily on in the face of ingratitude!

What courage is required to face loss of esteem, among friends and associates when heeding the call of duty—As Jesus taught in the synagogue at Nazareth among those who had known him always, the people rose up and thrust him out of the city. But Jesus went on still teaching, still doing his duty.

What more vivid picture have we of ability to face impending trial courageously than when Jesus set his face steadfastly to go to Jerusalem where he knew they would scourge him, spit upon him and crucify him.

His was the courage of foregoing popular applause. He could easily have drawn to himself the so-called "great" of his day but all men were Jesus' brothers; he associated with the poor and lowly, even with sinners, thus losing the approbation of many. Jesus said "I am not come to call the righteous but sinners to repentance."

The courage of Jesus is the kind needed by every man and woman. The courage with which to meet the problems of every day; to meet life's tests. To keep sweet in the daily grind, to keep on going hour after hour, to cast off petty irritations, to meet irksome detail with a mind undisturbed. We need to remember "it isn't the big trees that trip us up as we walk through the forest, but the vines on the ground, the low underbrush."

"The Lord is the strength of my life. Of whom shall I be afraid?"

References
Jefferson, The Character of Jesus.
Luke 4:16-30.
Mark 10:32.
Matt. 9:10-13.

Questions
1. Explain and give examples of physical courage; military courage; occasional courage.
2. What type of courage was manifest by the Mormon Pioneers? Give illustration.
3. What type of courage is required to face ingratitude? Poverty? disappointment?
4. Upon what elements is courage based?
5. Select from the Gospels additional illustrations of every-day courage of the Master.