[Vol24 | October 1937 | Sequence: 28 | Category: Guide | Title: THE USE OF PARABLES IN CHRIST'S TEACHING]

Lesson Department
Theology and Testimony
Lesson 4

THE USE OF PARABLES IN CHRIST'S TEACHING

Helpful References:
Matthew 13:3-8; 21:33-34; 13: 24-30, 31-33, 47-50; 22:1-14; 25:1-13; 20:1-16; 25:14-30; 13:44-46; 18:21-35.
Mark 4:26-29.
Luke 13:6-9; 14:16-24; 19:11-27; 18:9-14; 11:5-10; 18:1-8; 10:25-27; 15:4-7, 8-10, 11-32; 12:16-21; 16: 19-31; 16:1-9.
Talmage, Jesus the Christ, Chapter 19. See also index under "Parables of Christ."
Trench, Notes on the Parables of our Lord.
Goebel, The Parables of Jesus.
Bruce, The Parabolic Teaching of Christ.
Buttrick, The Parables of Jesus.

1. Parable Defined. One who reads the Gospels cannot help but be impressed with the wealth of parabolic teaching contained in them. "And without a parable he spoke not to them." (Mark 4:34; see Matthew 13:34.) At the outset it will be helpful for us to inquire into the nature of the parable before we discuss the use made of it by the Savior. The word "parable" is one of about 130,000 words in the English language derived directly or indirectly from the ancient Greek. Goebel, in his book, The Parables of Jesus, gives, with some reservations, the following definition of a parable: "A narrative moving within the sphere of physical or human life, not professing to communicate an event which really took place, but expressly imagined for the purpose of representing in pictorial figure a truth belonging to the sphere of religion, and therefore referring to the relation of man or mankind to God." The parable differs from the fable in that it always borrows its matter from the sphere of actual life, whereas the latter moves in the realm of fantasy. The use of parables in the Bible is confined not to the New Testament alone; the Old Testament contains them. The one told by Nathan to David about the rich man and the poor man is notable. (2 Samuel 12:1-4.)

2. An Element of Mercy Shown in Parabolic Mode of Instruction. Though the use of parables was common in the days of our Lord, it is instructive to note that His disciples once came to Him and said, "Why dost thou speak to them in parables?" The implication would seem to be that His parables were only understood after considerable thought and reflection. In answer the Savior said, "To you it is given to know the mysteries of the Kingdom of heaven; but to them it is not given. For whoever has, to him will be given, and he shall have abundance; but whoever has not, even what he has shall be taken from him. Therefore I speak to them in parables; because seeing they see not, and hearing they hear not, nor understand." (See Matthew 13:10-15.) The late Elder James E. Talmage in his Jesus the Christ, pertinently remarks, "There is plainly shown an element of mercy in the parabolic mode of instruction adopted by our Lord under the conditions prevailing at the time. Had He always taught in explicit declaration, such as required no interpretation, many among His hearers would have come under condemnation, inasmuch as they were too weak in faith and unprepared in heart to break the bonds of traditionalism and prejudice engendered by sin, so as to accept and obey the saving word. Their inability to comprehend the requirements of the gospel would in righteous measure give Mercy some claim upon them, while had they rejected the truth with full understanding, stern Justice would surely demand their condemnation."

3. The Nature and Development of the Kingdom of God. For the sake of convenience we can, following Goebel, classify the parables into two general groups. Each of these can be divided into sub-groups. It is obviously impossible to adequately deal with all the parables in one short lesson. For that reason we shall consider but a few in each of the two general groups. The first of these groups has to do with the parables that contain teaching respecting the nature and development of the kingdom of God. One of the most interesting parables in it is the Parable of the Sower. (Matthew 13:3-8.) Possibly a better name of it would be the Parable of the Four Types of Soils. This parable deals essentially with the conditions under which the Kingdom of God is founded. In it is portrayed the fact that the success of preaching is mainly dependent on the hearers. How true this observation is can be testified to by practically all missionaries of this dispensation. The Savior compares the hearers of the word to different kinds of soil upon which a sower casts seed. The Sower may be compared to an authorized servant of God and the seed to his message. The effect of the seed depends upon the type of soil it falls upon. If it falls upon hard soil, "by the wayside," it is quickly snatched up and is of no effect. If sowed on "stony places" or "among thorns" it fares somewhat better for a time, but eventually withers away or is choked by thorns. The seed falling on good ground, however, brings forth good fruit, "some an hundred-fold, some sixty-fold, some thirty-fold." So likewise is the effect of preaching upon human hearts. Whether the glad news of the Gospel takes effect or not depends mainly upon the type of spiritual soil it falls upon. If the soil has been hardened by sin and the conscience trodden under foot, the seed has but little chance to take root. If the soil is shallow and superficial, the seed may take root; but it soon withers away. Some soil may be good, and the seed grows; but the latter is soon choked out by the thorns of a poor environment. The "good ground" represents those individuals who are spiritually strong, who have a broken heart and a contrite spirit, who have the courage of their convictions, and who are undaunted by persecution. These bring forth much fruit, and the Church and Kingdom of God are greatly built up by them. Of such were the early pioneers of Utah.

4. The Right Attitude of Members of the Kingdom. The second group of parables deals with the attitude that members of the Kingdom ought to display toward God and the World. There are two very short but excellent parables that teach in a profound manner the attitude that one ought to have toward God. They are The Hidden Treasure (Matthew 13:44) and The Costly Pearl (Matthew 13:45-46). In these parables the "Kingdom of Heaven" is likened unto a "treasure hid in a field", and unto a "pearl of great price", respectively. In the first case a certain man "goeth and selleth all that he hath, and buyeth that field." In the second a merchant man, "seeking goodly pearls... found one pearl of great price, went and sold all that he had, and bought it." The things of God are worth acquiring if they require the sacrifice of everything we have in the world to obtain them. These parables call to mind an Abraham willing to sacrifice an only son, or a Joseph Smith willing to lay down his life, for the kingdom of God. Such men indeed receive the joy in God that sacrifices everything for the highest good.

The Parable of the Good Samaritan, one of the noblest of all parables, is a splendid example of teaching concerning the right attitude of members of the kingdom toward man. It is not necessary to recount the details of it, because it is so well known. The parable answers the question, "Who is my neighbor?" The context ought to make plain that this question, put by a lawyer to the Christ, was merely an attempt to hide his sense of shame at the unexpected turn which the conversation had previously taken. So all of us, professing to understand the Gospel, ought to be ashamed if we do not understand who our neighbor is. As the Savior unfolds the story of the wounded man and the Samaritan, certain expressions stand out. Note, "he had compassion on him", "bound up his wounds", "takes care of him", "shewed mercy on him", etc. These are all traits of our "neighbor." We ought to remember in this connection the statement of King Benjamin in the Book of Mormon. "Behold, I say unto you that because I said unto you that I had spent my days in your service, I do not desire to boast, for I have only been in the service of God. And behold, I tell you these things that ye may learn wisdom; that ye may learn that when ye are in the service of your fellow beings ye are only in the service of your God." (Mosiah 2: 16-17)

Questions
1. In what sense was the Savior merciful by teaching in parables?
2. What doctrines of the Gospel can you think of that are taught in the parables? Specify the parables and give references.
3. What parables do you like best? Why?

Problems
Treat only those that time and circumstances will permit.
1. Analyze carefully the parables of The Rich Man (Luke 16:19-31) and The Unjust Steward (Luke 16: 1-9).
2. Determine the number of parables in the Doctrine and Covenants. (See index and concordance). Report on the teaching contained in them.
3. From a consideration of history show that the Gospel was taken from the Jews and given to others. What parables seem to have foreshadowed this?
4. Determine which of the Apostles of this generation has written parables or fables. If possible read a parable or a fable to the class.