[Vol47 | August 1960 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: Notes | Author: Parker]
See regulations governing the submittal of material for "'Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the. Handbook of Instructions of the Relief Society. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Ruby M. Blake HIGHLAND STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH) RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS HONORED AT LEADERSHIP MEETING, Aptil 28, 1960 Front row, seated, left to mght: Hazel Tingey; Reka Cummings; Nellie Parker, first president; Jennie Duffin. _ Back row, standing, left to right: Ruby M. Blake, present President; Josephine Jones; Zora Paulson. - Allie Barnes, Florence Holland, and Marjory Eldredge were not present when the picture was taken. Sister Blake reports: "Our presidency paid tribute to the former Highland Stake Relief Society presidents at the April leadership meeting. A lovely program was prepared, and brunch was served to all stake and ward workers in appreciation of their efforts during the past year." Page 532 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 533 Py. Jae oe Photograph submitted by Zelda S. Conra SPOKANE STAKE (WASHINGTON) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, March 27, 1960 Standing in front of the organ, left to night: Marianne G. Bardsley, chorister; Pauline Quick, organist; Zelda S. Conrad, President, Spokane Stake Relief Society. Sister Conrad reports: "Over one hundred Singing Mothers, under the direction of Marianne G. Bardsley, furnished music for stake conference on March 27, 1960. The following wards participated: Bonners Ferry, Colville, Coeur d'Alene, Deer Park, Sandpoint, and the First, Second, 'Third, Fourth, Fifth, and Sixth Spokane Wards." Photograph submitted by Phyllis Unbedacht SEATTLE STAKE (WASHINGTON) RELIEF SOCIETY BOARD HONORS RETIRING PRESIDENCY AT LUNCHEON, April 13, 1960 Front row, seated, left to right: Mable Udell, former First Counselor; Leora G. Clawson, former President; Aurora Jones, present First Counselor; Phyllis Unbedacht, present President; Ina Ree Sparks, present Secretary-Treasurer; Ruby Finlayson, former social science class leader.

NOTES FROM THE FIELD 537 Margaret Weaver, President, Chicago Stake Relief Society, reports: "Our stake board honored twenty-seven sisters at a visiting teacher open house April 16, 1960, in the new Chicago Stake house in Wilmette, Illinois. Citations were presented by Emma Johnson. 'The seventeen visiting teachers shown in the picture have served twenty years or more. Each received a Relief Society pin. Ten sisters who have served from ten to twenty years were presented with flowers. Every visiting teacher in the stake received a special invitation and 125 sisters assembled for the event. Minnie D. Warner gave a tribute to the visiting teachers. Forty Singing Mothers under the able direction of Bernice Lindsey sang two numbers. The film "Unto the Least of These' was shown, with Veldron Matheson presenting the prologue. Refreshments completed a most satisfying event."' Ye Ay Photograph submitted by Marjorie M. Reeve KANSAS CITY STAKE (KANSAS), INDEPENDENCE WARD SINGING MOTHERS The chorister Rose Marie Patton stands at the left, and the organist Phyllis Pope is seated at the nght. Front row, left to right: Juanita Harris; Jean Pope; Leah Ann Adlard; Patricia Fry; Mildred Jameson; Jeanne Braden; Roxey Rogers, President. Second row, left to right: Mary Emily; Gladys Preator; June North; Marian Grow; Vennice Barr; Luella Hansen; Ida Mae Burkhardt; Nellie Preator. Back row, left to right: Ruby Harris; Hazel Lacki; Dorothy Keadle; Marjorie Ransome; Ollie Johnson; Ola Crumpler; Edith Wright; Frida Watter; Evo Gray. Marjorie M. Reeve, President, Kansas City Stake Relief Society, reports: "Independence Ward has one of the largest Singing Mothers group in the stake. They meet evenings for practice. In this way the working sisters may participate in this activity." 538 Photograph submitted by Edith B. Hancock SOUTH AUSTRALIAN MISSION, SCARBOROUGH BRANCH VISITING TEACHERS MAKE THEIR VISITS BY MOTOR SCOOTER The Scarborough Branch Relief Society presidency, left to right: Mary H. Grange, First Counselor; Helen T. Smith, Second Counselor; Margaret C. Jones, President. Velma N. Simonsen, President, South Australian Mission Relief Society, reports: "Distances in Australia are tremendous, and Church members are widely scattered. In spite of this, the Relief Society visiting teachers carry on the program faithfully." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1960 CENTRAL AMERICAN MISSION, GUATEMALA FIRST BRANCII ANNIVERSARY SOCIAL March 19, 1960 Edith B. Hancock, President, Central American Mission Relief Society, is shown cutting the anniversary cake; seated at the right is Edith Mata, wife of the former President of the Guatemala District. Sister Hancock reports: "While the cake was being cut, those present sang "Happy Anniversary' first in English and then in Spanish. An outstanding program was presented by the Relief Society sisters under the direction of Hortensia Torres, President of the Guatemala First Branch Relief Society." Sa Photograph submitted by Velma N. Simonsen <—ane LESS N DEPARTMENT Sheology—The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 26—The Law of Moral Conduct Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: The Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 42:18-20, 79, 84, 85) For Tuesday, November 1, 1960 Objective: To realize that the commandments "Thou shalt not kill' and "Thou shalt not steal" forbid acts which are an offense against God and society. Study of the Law (continued) In last month's lesson the backeround for the study of Section 42 was given. By way of reminder, we learned that not long after the Prophet Joseph Smith arrived in Kirtland, Ohio, the Lord gave to him, as promised earlier (See D & C 38:32; 41:3), his law to the Church. The first part of this law is known as that of preaching the gospel (D & C 42:4-17). "Historical" Background In the world today there are at least two points of view concerning the ongin of the Ten Commandments: first, that they are simply the crystallization of moral laws which have developed out of the experiences of an evolving civilization, which belief arises out of the notion that man evolved from a lower form of animal, known as organic evolution; and second, that this formulation of a code of moral laws was the work of Moses. As far as Latter-day Saints are concerned, the gospel teaches us that in the beginning the Lord gave commandments to Adam by revelation. One of the unique teachings of the restored gospel is that the gospel of Jesus Christ was upon the earth before the time of Jesus' mortal ministry. Included in this concept is the fact that God revealed his will to man and that man did not "make" the laws of salvation. In the plan of salvation are the Ten Commandments, which do form the very basis of the laws governing civilized people. Did the Ten Commandments come into being for the first time on Mount Sinai through the prophet Moses? No, the Lord provided laws and commandments for the salvation of his children in the gospel of Jesus Christ from the beginning. (See D & C 20:17-19.) Section 42 and Moral Laws In Section 42 some of the great Page 539 540 moral commandments are given; but the reader should not consider that all of the laws pertaining to moral conduct in 'The Doctrine and Covenants are found in this revelation. For our present consideration, however, the following laws are included in this lesson: 'Thou shalt not kill (D & C 42:18-19, 79), steal (D& C 42:20, 84-85, lie (D & C 42:21, 86), commit adultery (D & C 42:23-25, 74-75), speak evil of thy neighbor (D & C 42:27, 88), and thou shalt love thy wife (D & C 42:22). That more laws of moral conduct than the foregoing are a part of the gospel is made plain in these two verses: Thou knowest my laws concerning these things are given in my scriptures; he that sinneth and repenteth not shall be cast out (D & C 42:28). And if he or she do any manner of iniquity, he or she shall be delivered up unto the law, even that of God (D & C 42:87). The Single Standard The single standard of morality is defined as a law which applies to both sexes; whereas, the double standard of morality means that the male or the female may have a different rule of conduct from the other. In this revelation the Lord repeatedly emphasizes the single standard of conduct as his law to the Church. This is done by the use of "he or she" or "man or woman," particularly in verses 80 to 92. An example of this is given in verse 87, quoted above. "I Speak Unto the Church" As the Doctrine and Covenants Commentary (page 222) points out, the laws of moral conduct are RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1960 given especially to the Church, as the Ten Commandments were given to ancient Israel. A distinction may be made, according to this same source, among various laws given to man. Some are binding because of peculiar conditions or relations that may exist, and cease to be binding with the end of those conditions. New conditions require new laws, Israel in a_ settled condition in Canaan needed many rules and regulations which would have been inapplicable to their national life while in the wilderness. Laws regarding property, marriage, etc., belong to this class (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, Revised Edition, 1957, pp. 222-223). These may be classified as statutes. (See Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, pp. 222-223.) On the other hand, there are moral laws which are permanent. Concerning them, it is said: Some laws are binding because they are founded on the nature and attributes of God. If God is love, it is our duty to love Him and teach others. If He is just, merciful, pure, it is our duty to conform our lives to the divine standards of justice, mercy, and holiness. And from this springs another class of laws which are founded on the permanent relations of men in their present state of existence. They are called the moral laws to distinguish them from statutes, which are founded on temporary relations of man to man. Statutes may vary from time to time and in different countries. Moral laws are permanent (Doctrine and Covenant Commentary, page 223). An example is taken from an address by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., of a temporary law which prohibits the Israelites from eating sea foods "... That have not fins and scales " (Lev. 11:10). A possible reason for this prohibrtion, President Clark points out, may LESSON DEPARTMENT have been because of the perishability of certain sea foods which would have generated poison harmful to the body, due to a lack of a means of food preservation. With our modern means of refrigeration and rapid transportation, there is no law against the use of this particular food. The Lord is concerned today, as anciently, with the health of his people. Thus the law that God's people must be clean and healthy has not changed, but the rule prescribed to secure obedience to the law has changed with the change in the manner of living (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 224). "Thou Shalt Not Kill' As explained by Elder Harold B. Lee of the Council of the Twelve, the reason for the injunction of the Lord against taking human life, has its basis in the plan instituted in the heavens before the earth came into existence. Every person is a spirit child of God for whom the Lord has planned to bring to pass his immortality and, if faithful, an eternal life. (See Moses 1:39.) Satan and his spirit followers rebelled against that plan and thus have sought to destroy all mortals by enticing them to commit sins. On the other hand, the Advocate of man with the Father is Jesus our Redeemer who gave his life that man might be able to repent and, eventually by man's faithfulness, receive eternal glory. One of the most serious of all sins and crimes against the Lord's plan of salvation is the sin of murder or the destruction of human lite. It seems clear that to be guilty of destroying life is the act of "rebellion" against the plan of the Almighty by denying an individual thus destroyed in mortality, the privilege of a full experience in this earth-school of op- 541 portunity. It is in the same category as the rebellion of Satan and his hosts and therefore it would not be surprising if the penalties to be imposed upon a murderer were to be of similar character as the penalties meted out to those spirits which were cast out of heaven with Satan ("The Sixth Commandment," Ten Commandments Today, page 88). As scriptural examples to indicate the nature of the penalties imposed, Elder Lee suggests the case of (a) Cain (Genesis 4:6-12), and (b) David in plotting the death of Uriah; and also the crucifixion of the Savior by the Jews. The Prophet Joseph Smith, as recorded in his history, discusses the case of David by stating that the murderer, one who sheds innocent blood, cannot have forgiveness. David sought repentance at the hand of God carefully with tears, for the murder of Uriah; but he could only get it through hell: he got a promise that his soul should not be left in hell... And the Priesthood that he [David] received, and the throne and kingdom of David is to be taken from him and given to another (D. H. C. VI:253). Concerning certain Jews, who, it appears, assented to the crucifixion of Jesus, the Prophet said Peter did not say to them "... Repent and be baptized... For the remission of sins " (Acts 2:38). (See also D. H. C. Vl:253.) In commenting upon the commandment against taking human life, the Doctrine and Covenants Commentary quotes Jesus' injunction against this crime, (see Mt. 5:21-22), and of his condemnation of anger "without a cause." There is a difference between the anger that is but malice or thirst for revenge, 542 and the emotion that is felt in the presence of injustice and wrong. It is malice that is forbidden. 'To take the life of a fellow-being in order to gratify malice is the highest crime one human being can commit against another.... This commandment prohibits dueling, because dueling is but manslaughter, actual or potential. It prohibits suicide. Which is selfmurder. It condemns unjustifiable wars, which are but wholesale murders. There have been wars which are justifiable from the standpoint of one side of the contesting parties, but when the nations have courts of arbitration there will be no justification for any war, any more than there is for murder. 'The moral law must be apphed to nations as well as individuals. "He that killeth shall die' (v. 19) (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 224). Military Service and Killing Is the Latter-day Saint who is called into the military service of his country guilty of murder as he takes human life while in that service? During World War II, the First Presidency addressed a message to the members of the Church at the 112th Annual General Conference, in which they considered this question. After quoting from the modern revelations concerning war, the following appears: When, therefore, constitutional law, obedient to these principles, calls the manhood of the Church into the armed service of any country to which they owe allegiance, their highest civic duty requires that they meet that call. If, hearkening to that call and obeying those in command over them, they shall take the lives of those who fight against them, that will not make of them murderers nor subject them to the penalty that God has prescribed for those who kill, beyond the principle to be mentioned shortly. For it would be a cruel God that would punish His children as moral sinners for acts done by them as the imnocent instrumentalities of a sovercign whom He had RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1960 told them to obey and whose will they were powerless to resist. In this terrible war now waging, thousands of our nghteous young men in all parts of the world and in many countries are subject to a call into the military service of their own countries. Some of these, so serving, have already been called back to their heavenly home; others will almost surely be called to follow. But "'behold," as Moroni said, the righteous of them who serve and are slain "do enter into the rest of the Lord their God," and of them the Lord has said 'those that die in me shall not taste of death, for it shall be sweet unto them." (D & C 42:46) Their salvation and exaltation in the world to come will be secure. That in their work of destruction they will be striking at their brethren will not be held against them. That sin, as Moroni of old said, is to the condemnation of those who "sit in their places of power in a state of thoughtless stupor," those rulers in the world who in a frenzy of hate and lust for unrighteous power and domination over their fellow men, have put into motion eternal forces they do not comprehend and cannot control. God, in His own due time, will pass sentence upon them (112th Annual Conference Report of Discourses, pp. 9496). Penalty for Murder As part of the moral law, the Lord revealed in this dispensation: And now, behold, I speak unto the church. Thou shalt not kill; and he that kills shall not have forgiveness m_ this world, nor in the world to come. And again, I say, thou shalt not kill; but he that killeth shall die (D & C 42:18-19). The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints accepts capital punishment for this offense against God and the law of the land. And it shall come to pass, that if any persons among you shall kill they shall be delivered up and dealt with according to LESSON DEPARTMENT the laws of the land; for remember that he hath no forgiveness; and it shall be proved according to the laws of the land (D & C 42:79). "Thou Shalt Not Steal" Thou shalt not steal; and he that stealeth and will not repent shall be cast out. And if a man or woman shall rob, he or she shall be delivered up unto the law of the land. And if he or she shall steal, he or she shal: be delivered up unto the law of the land (D & C 42:20, 84-85). The essence of the moral law of the gospel of Jesus Christ is summed up in the words of the Savior that his disciple will love God and his neighbor as himself. (See Mt. 22:37-39.) In a modern revelation, the Lord has again brought to the attention of his people that they are to follow this commandment. After expressing the fact that one should love the Lord "... With all thy heart, with all thy might, mind, and strength: and in the name of Jesus Christ thou shalt serve him," it continues, "Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. 'Thou shalt not steal; neither commit adultery, nor kill, nor do anything like unto it" (D & C 59:5-6). It should not be difficult for one to understand that if there is love in one's heart for his fellow men, he will not steal, commit adultery, neither kill nor do anything that would injure his fellow man. The association of these three crimes with the love of God and neighbor in the modern revelation assuredly points up their importance in the sight of the Lord. Dishonesty in any of its forms, if uncontrolled or 543 unregulated by divine fiat and if accepted by man as the foundation of a civilized people, would lead to a state of chaos in civilization. The Nephites at one point in their history were told that their iniquity in casting out the prophets and thus disregarding the law of God would bring destruction upon them.