[Vol47 | August 1960 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: A]
[A Musical Hobby — Florence Bellows, "Organist for Everything"]

Mary spoke as if she had RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1960 actually seen the garden. She went on, "Ada has a 'Talisman rose her niece sent air express from Portland. She planted it on the sunny side of her porch. And those bulbs she planted last year have bloomed on each side of the path, red and yellow. I love the summer with the fresh leafy smell of growing things. The air is so rich with flavor of beauty you can almost sip it." PPHERE was a breathless pause. "You know me, Rachel," Mary said at last. "I love the winter, too. The frosty air has a certain tang you can't find anywhere else in the world. As I told my husband George, life is so interesting." Mary turned in her chair so she could face Sharry. "Tell me about yourself," she said. "What have you done to that old cabin?" Sharry described everything in detail so Mary could picture it. "My husband is a mining engineer,' she added. "He is always looking for pretty rocks and stones; even pebbles under water interest him. So last night he built a corner cabinet, then he lacquered it black like the table and chairs. It's real attractive. My mother sent a beautiful old quilt to cover the lounge. It's quite colorful." "I'm sure it is!"" Mary agreed. "I can imagine how pretty it is. As soon as George has time we'll be over. But carpenters like George are really busy with all the building that's going on. 'They work night and day this time of year." "We'll love to have you," Sharry said. "Anytime." When she and Rachel were back in the car, Sharry asked wondering- ORCHIDS IN THE SNOW ly, "How does she keep so cheerful and so interesting when she can't see a thing?" "She sees with her soul and her heart," Rachel answered. "She even secs more than the rest of us do because she is so aware of everything and so appreciative of life itself. That's why I wanted you to meet her before I answered your question about our long winters. Everyone goes through a long winter one way or another. Mary has overcome hers in a wonderful way." "She talks like a poet," Sharry murmured. "I love to listen to her. How long has she lived in Alaska?" "She came here as a girl," Rachel answered. "About thirty years ago, I guess. She taught school in a little place way up north of here where the gas fields are now. 'Then she met George Billings, a young carpenter. After their marriage they traveled with a building crew from one end of Alaska to another. 'They were in that awful fire outside of Anchorage, in the wooded section; the one where smoke was a dark blanket for miles and lingered for almost a year. There are still traces of it.