[Vol47 | August 1960 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: Editorial | Author: Madsen]
[Editorial: The Value of Work Louise W. Madsen]

She wanted a double fireplace, right here, between this long living room and the den, one on each side of this brick partition. The kitchen and dinette were planned for comfort and_ utility. These French windows open onto a terrace with a sandpile below for children." "It's just charming!" Sharry said, thinking how perfect a home like this would be for Sam and _ her. Only she wouldn't want a permanent home in Alaska, so far away from her folks. And she couldn't hive through months and months without sunshine. 'They would live on in the cabin until they left Alaska, she firmly decided. "Shall we go, dear?" Rachel asked, interrupting her reverie. "Oh, yes," Sharry answered, following her to the car. "I enjoyed seeing the house. I really did." HE next month was a busy time for Sharry. She was asked to be organist in the Sunday School and she and Sam were invited on hiking trips and Church _ picnics. They went to baseball games at night and swam in Harding Lake RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1960 under the amber light of the midnight sun. One morning in September, there was no sunshine when Sharry awakened. The world was a somber battleship gray. She ran to the window, trying to penctrate the pale, weird mist. Summer was gone. She could feel the new chill in the air, she could almost taste the frost in the icy wind from the mountains. She crawled back in bed, trembling, wishing Sam was home. Te had been gone three days on an expedition. He couldn't tell her where he was going. Sister Jensen was in Nome for a visit with Betty and her husband. Now it was winter and it was only September, Sharry thought with a heavy sigh. This was full-moon time in Utah. Harvest time. Homesickness was a weight around her heart. Resolutely she sat up, swinging her feet to the floor. 'There was no use feeling sorry for herself. She had work to do and she had promised Rachel she would feed and water her canaries every day. She must write to her mother. Her head came up lke a frightened deer as she heard the loud bark of a dog on the porch. Or was it a coyote? Or a wolf, she wondered with sickening dread? Sharrv heard another bark. This time she was sure it was a dog's bark. Someone was pounding on the front door. She got to her feet. Fear tightened her throat. Who could it be? Who knew she was alone in this awful darkness? Trembling, she started for the door. Whatever it was, she had to face it as bravely as she could. (To be continued) Hooking the Rug No easel or frame is required for a latch hook rug. We used a TV tray or card table.