[Vol10 | April 1923 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial - Philosophic Despair of the World]

EDITORIAL    RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Business Manager - - - -. Jeannette A. Hyve Assistant Manager -: - -: - Amy Brown LyMan Room 20, Bishop's Building. Salt Lake City, Utah 
 PHILOSOPHIC DESPAIR OF THE WORLD Fifteen years ago the world believed, generally speaking, that its past was full of glory and its future full of promise. No platform topic was more popular than the "Heir of the Ages," very likely suggested, by Tennyson's famous lines, "I, the heir of all the ages in the foremost files of time." Orators took a great deal of delight in recounting the world's achievements in art, literature, science, and invention. They pointed with great pride to the fact that modern invention had practically revolutionized the world. Now with the facts much the same as they were, the world has suddenly lost much of its pride, and facing the future with much of despair. It is in the position of a boy with a bright colored toy balloon that has suddenly received a puncture—there is nothing left. Since the cessation of the world's war, we have suffered much from many varieties of depression, financial, intellectual, spiritual, etc. We have been deluged with a flood of depressing literature. Philosophy, never very optimistic at best, has grown intolerably pessimistic. In the March 3 issue of the Literary Digest is an article entitled, '""The Growing Philosophic Despair," which is quite true to the situation as many know it. The paragraph reads as follows: "No salvation, no immortality, nothing but economic collapse at the end—this is the philosophic fear which the contemporary literature of despair holds for us, and which is likely, we are told, to do considerable harm unless counteracted. The mechanistic philosophy, as it is being taught in some of our colleges and universities and in the published works of some of the philosophers 
 schooled in psychology, biology, chemistry, and physics, is inculcating in the man-on-the-street the idea that he is little more than an animated clod, and that the universe is a mere machine without sympathy or purpose." In the midst of this uncertainty. And mental depression which is closing in on the people of the world from many sides, we turn to the Latter-day Saints, who would rally at any moment to the slogan, "The past is full of glory and the future full of promise." Particularly would they feel this as it touches their own history. Weare rapidly approaching the centenary of the organization of the Church. On the sixth day of this month, ninety-three years will have elapsed since its organization. The Latter-day Saints have not escaped the financial depression growing out of conditions caused by the world's war, but they have escaped in very large measure the spiritual and intellectual depression that has taken such a strong hold of people, particularly in intellectual circles. The condition extant in the world today is not to be wondered at, for its philosophy of life and its religions, in many instances, have been weighed in the balance and found wanting; consequently it feels that civilization is a failure and Christianity no success. Joseph Smith repeatedly warned the people of just such a condition, and told them that to follow a man-made philosophy, and ignore the word of God, could only result in their ultimate destruction. On the other hand, all of the leaders of Israel have told the members of the Church that to the extent that they would heed the counsel of those called to preside over them, to that same extent thev sheuld grow and progress and have great jov and rejoicing in all their undertakings. Despite the fact that there are imperfections in Zion, and some conditions to be overcome that are not in accord with the principles and ideals of the Latter-day Saints, nevertheless this coming anniversary of the Church will bring joy and rejoicing to the people of the Lord. The year's statistics will show growth in essentials. From many sides comes evidence that we are being watched by the thinking people of the world. Not long ago a gentleman who has been engaged for many years as a teacher in our Church schools, related a conversation he had with the president of a well-known girls' college in the East. He reported the president as saying, "We have not been able to cope with the world conditions, but our eyes are upon your people hoping for their success. There are those praying for you who are not of your faith, but who, nevertheless, are very anxious for your success." The Latter-day Saints face the past with pride, and look forward to a future that looms big with promise.