[Vol10 | April 1923 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Home | Title: Of Interest to Women Lalene H. Hart]

Of Interest to Women Lalene H. Hart "Flowers are the sweetest things God ever made and forgot to put a soul into.'—H. W. Beecher. While we are cooperating in the Clean Home—Clean Town movement, may we not stress the beautiful and artistic home and town? Here we are in this broad country with plenty of fertile ground at our disposal but comparatively few flower gardens. We need all the possible joy and happiness be can put into the world at this time when, from our feminine point of view, many things are topsy turvy. The road to a man's heart is no longer by way of his stomach, but along paths of beauty, art and color. One successful and noted modern artist and decorator has brought forth this theory and plausibly contends for this view. He declares: "Man loves beautiful things. He does not absent himself from home because the cooking is necessarily better in the hotels and restaurants, but because the life pictures there are bright, the color schemes appeal, and there are persons and things which are good to look upon." More and more, women are becoming alive to this thought. They know that beautiful surrounding and pleasant color effects are subconsciously going to hold their loved ones closer to the home. They are spending their time and energy toward the accomplishment of this important end. Whether it is a small city back yard, or just a corner of a more spacious suburban garden, or a small plot near the farm house, for planting their favorite flowers, there is nothing that will develop a higher moral and aesthetic standard among children than the association afforded by their own little garden. Let us make the coming season one of "flowers, flowers, everywhere." Never plant too much, however. Consider two things, future development and after-care. We all want green grass, trees, shrubbery and flowers; but better a few well grown specimens, well cared for, than numerous indifferent varieties—indifferent because we planted more than we had time to care for. Flowers and shrubs are as responsive as people. Give them some definite attention and they will show their gratitude by sending forth a wealth of beautiful blossoms.. There are many varteties of flowers which are easily grown with but little care. Among them are the old fashioned ones such as the hollyhock, marigold, petunia, sweet-william, larkspur, dahlia, and many others familiar to every one, OF INTEREST TO WOMEN 187 Window Boxes. Window boxes are not a luxury. Anyone, anywhere, at any time may have them. At one time they were considered merely a box painted green to hold a few miscellaneous bits of flowers. Now they have developed to be a "thing of beauty and a joy forever." They may be simple or as elaborate as one desires. Different materials are used in their making, but, perhaps the one made of wood is most common. To be the most satisfactory, they must be large enough to contain soil sufficient to hold moisture to keep the flower from drying out. To prevent the wood from decay, a lining of tin or zinc, or a coat of tar residue, or even, a coat of paint, may be used. The latter must be thoroughly dry before adding the soil. Holes should be bored in the bottom for drainage with broken pieces of pots placed over the holes; somet'mes a fine wire screen or a layer of charcoal placed in the bo'tom before the soil is added. This helps to keep the soil sweet. There is a wide choice of flowers and vines to meet the individual preference that may be used, depending of course on which side of the house the flowers are placed, some requiring more sunshine than others. One important point is to choose flowers that are intense in color. Geraniums, nasturtiums, petunias, begonias are always good and may be grown inside equally as well as outside the house. A box of nasturtiums, or small yellow poppies adds cheer to a room when snow still covers the ground. Before sowing poppy seeds, either in a box or in the open, mix them thorcuchly with sand or finely pulverized soil, then sift the mixture evenly over the prepared bed and press firmly. This method insures even distribution and not many are lost from over-crowding. Poppies cannot be transplanted successfully. Arrangement of Flowers. One of the neglected arts—and it certainly should be called an art—is the use and arrangement of flowers after they are grown. It is surprising to see what can be done with a handful of garden flowers and an inconspicuous vase, once the fundamental principle of color, form and line have been s'tdied. Some persons have a knack of making artistic everything they do; but the secret of using and arranging flowers, is merely a matter of a little thought and care mixed with a desire for beautiful things, and can be learned by anyone. The study of flowers and their containers is most interesting. All kinds of strange shapes and sizes of vessels may be pressed into service. An old stone crock resurrected from the cellar, a discarded basket, an old brown baking bowl, a baked-bean jug, and many more common and ordinary thhousehold utensils can be used very effectively, if the colors are suited to the flowers used. With 
 little expense many unique and interesting bowls and jardineres can be provided by the use of a paint brush and a few small cans of enamel of different colors. Over-crowding the mouth of the vase with the stems of flowers does not permit them: to breathe the oxygen which is as necessary as water to keep them fresh. Neither does the water circulate freely when the stems touch the bottom of the bowl. Carnations look lovely in a cut-glass vase, but marigolds or four-o'clocks look best in pottery or plain vases and bowss. Yellow and orange marigolds against a brown background make an attractive picture. Pansies are best in a low bow! With either variations of one color gathered together or all one solid color. - Canterbury bells look well in a vase of medium height against a tan or gray background. The old-fashioned, wide-mouth water pitcher, tinted blue, pink, or yellow, makes a good receptacle for bunches of flowers such as lilacs, either white or lavender, or sweet peas. Many beautiful combinations, such as roses, candytuft and mignonettes, or violets and roses, can be used very effectively with a container of proper shape and color. One very simple combination, yet artistic and effective, is a little brown mug filled with beautiful yellow buttercups, which grow by the ditch bank, and a few blades of old-fashioned ribbon grass. So with a little practice and time, using nature as a guide, each gardner or housewife may find expression in the arrangement of flowers, besides giving pleasure and satisfaction to others who love flowers for their beauty and fragrance but who may not know how much the natural beauty is enhanced by artistic arangement. GLEANINGS Mrs. Lola Pierce-Hughes has blazed a new trail for women in the world of work. She has invented the profession of woman's service manager of a hotel. Some years ago Mrs. Pierce-Hughes was told by her physician that she needed more fresh air. She made a practice of walking all over the city and in the course of her trips was often asked for information as to the streets, location of shops, etc., by other women, strangers to the city evidently, whom she encountered. It occurred to her that a big hotel might be willing to place at the disposal of their women patrons the services of a woman who knew the city well and who would act as guide, philosopher and friend as required. This is the position that Mrs. Pierce-Hughes now holds in one of the world's greatest hotels —New York Sun.