[Vol10 | April 1923 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Alice Louise Reynolds Alfred Osmond]

Alice Louise Reynolds Alfred Osmond, Head of English Department, B. Y. U. While Miss Reynolds is receiving the heartfelt congratulations of her many friends on her recent appointment to membership in the General Board of the Relief Society organization and also Associate Editor of its official organ, the Relief Society Magazine, one may suggest that those responsible for the appointment are to be congratulated for their choice selection, and that the Relief Society is fortunate in securing the services of one who is an eminent specialist in religious and literary fields of work. Miss Reynolds is interested and active in many other affairs of life, but for many years she has been doing efficient and intensive work in literature and religion. The subject of this sketch, Miss Alice Louise Reynolds, is the daughter of George and Mary Ann Tuddenham Reynolds, and was born in Salt Lake City, April 1, 1873. Her parents were natives of England, London being their birthplace. Alice Louise is the fourth child of a family of eleven children. Miss Reynolds attended the public schools of Saft Lake City, and was fortunate in having the eminent educator, T. B. Lewis, as her teacher. When twelve years of age she came to Provo and entered the Brigham Young Academy, being graduated from this 
 institution five years later. After having taught school one year in Salt Lake City and one year in Nephi, in 1892 she entered the University of Michigan. Two years later she accepted an appointment on the faculty of the Brigham Young University. In 1911 she was made professor of English Literature on the college staff of the English department of this institution, a position that she. Still holds, but under the terms of the contract, the University is to have but half her time. Miss Reynolds 'has received her college training—undergraduate and graduate work—in the Brigham Young University, University of Michigan, the University of Chicago, University of California, and the University of London. In addition to many years of formal training for her chosen profession, Miss Reynolds has enriched her mind by extensive travel in America and Europe. She spent the summer of 1906 in England and Scotland, in Great Britain, and on the Continent, visited France, Switzerland, Italy, Germany, Belgium and Holland. She so enjoyed her travels that she resolved to take a more extended trip as soon as she could make the necessary arrangemen's for leaving home. Her next visit to England and the continent extended from May, 1910, to August, 1911. The effect of her experiences in Europe on Miss Reynolds' mind is a matter of common knowledge to her many intimate friends. While she is never obtrusive and tedious, she always becomes enthusiastic in talking about the sights and sounds of Europe. Were it not for the fact that the easy charm of her conversation sustains the native warmth and dignity of her emotions, her descriptions of what she saw and heard would seem to be too vivid to be real. As it is, however, one instinctively knows that he is in the presence of a mind that has been refined and ennobled by its vital contact with the more valuable and finer things of life. But the European experiences of Alice Louise, as her friends like to call her, have been incidental and occasional. In her native land her efforts and influences have been constant and cumulative. Miss Reynolds was a delegate to the National Democratic Convention, held in San Francisco in July, 1920. From the floor of the house she made the seconding speech for McAdoo, as candidate for President of the United States. This speech was received with such favor that the lady delegate from Utah accepted an invitation to speak from the platform in seconding the nomination of Governor Stewart of Montana for Vice-President. Many women who have been less active in political affairs than Miss Reynolds have lost the charm of refinement and sympathy that one must have to be a woman among women. As evidence that the subject of this sketch still retains the confidence and esteem of other women, I refer to an event of local history. On April the first, 1922, the combined women's organizations ALICE LOUISE REYNOLDS 167 of Provo gave a birthday party in honor of Miss Reynolds. The words of praise and congratulation that were spoken by women on that occasion were prompted by qualities of love and devotion that are the richest treasures of human life. The only fault that anyone has found with this party is that men were excluded. Their sex made them ineligible. A prominent Judge of Salt Lake City was among the unfortunates wh¢ didn't understand the order of exclusion. With a beautiful book under his arm and his characteristic smile illuminating his intelligent face, he knocked for admission, but he couldn't come in. "May I leave my present?" asked the judge. The young lady was not certain. She had received no instructions as to the "status quo" of the neuter gender, but finally consented to take a chance, and the book was permitted to remain. A few favored ones had the good fortune to have their sexless representatives admitted without question. Among these are the following: 'Provo, Utah, April 1, 1922. Professor Alice L. Reynolds, Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah. My dear friend Alice:—This outburst of appreciation in honor of you is a fulfillment of the scripture recorded in Ecclesiastes 11:1.. The name of your lover is "Legion." The world has been your kitchen, and your multitude of. Friends claim you a Cinderella with no envious sisters. The first of April because of you may fittingly be celebrated as "Friendship Day." On this occasion of your service-triumph, we are all saying in our hearts, "Long live our Alice!" Sincerely and gratefully yours, George H. Brimhall. Provo, Utah, April 1, 1922. 'Professor Alice L. Reynolds, Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah. My dear Miss Reynolds:—1 Bope you will allow me to Join with those who are offering you their congratulations today. At this time there comes to my mind the old saying avout chickens going home to roost; also the equally familiar statement that we reap what we sow. Today you are reaping what you sow every day in thoughtfulness to others, in unselfish devotion to your fellows and in loyalty to womankind. During the last year it has been a great pleasure to rediscover you. For many years I have known of your splendid womanly qualities, but the last few months of our more intimate associations have led me frequently to marvel at the breadth of your interests and at the unceasing thoughtfulness you have shown for others, and the unselfish way in which you have devoted yourself to increasing the sum-total of human happiness. No matter what honor you may receive today, it will be less than you merit. 
 From the bottom of 'my heart I congratulate you on the highminded womanliness of your life. Sincerely yours, F. S. Harris The sentiments expressed by President Harris and President Brimhall are representative. Thousands of leading men and women of the Church and state find their feeling for Alice Reynolds expressed i in these beautiful tributes. In state and national educational interests Miss Reynolds has been constantly struggling for the higher goal and the brighter light. She was the first woman to make a Founders' Day address in the Brigham Young University. She has made many eloquent and impressive speeches in the meetings and conferences of the State Federat'on of Women's Clubs, the Young Ladies Mutual Improvement Association, the Relief Society, and has been on the programs of both the state and the National Education Associations. In a modest and womanly way she has been an ardent champion of the causes of woman suffrage, prohibition, and peace. Miss Reynolds is as well known, perhaps, as a writer, as she is as a public speaker. Now, for more than a quarter of a century, she has been making contributions to the magazines and newspapers of the state, and to some magazines outside of the state. While a variety of themes have claimed her interest, in the main her chosen topics have been theological, literary and historical. The new notions of woman's field of service have been in perfect harmony with Miss Reynolds' philosophy of life. For this reason the same singleness of purpose and devotion to duty that characterizes her religious zeal has been carried over into this new field of human endeavor. The leading lights have not hesitated to impose tasks and confer honors upon this capable and willing servant of her sex. In 1904, Miss Reynolds was chosen as a delegate to the Biennial of Women's Clubs. In 1915 she was sent, in the same capacity, to the Portland Council. In 1916 to the New York Biennial and to the American Woman's Suffrage Convention in St. Louis in 1919. In 1922 she went to Baltimore to the Pan-American conference of women under the auspices of the League of Women Voters of the United States. In the State Federation of clubs she has been a board member, state press chairman, and state chairman of education. Alice Reynolds is fundamentally a religious woman. The - foundations of her faith have never been moved by the storms of doubt and distress that have shocked the civilization of all the nations. Miss Reynolds has not faltered when others have failed. As a teacher in Sunday School and Religion Class, as stake superintendent of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associations, ALICE LOUISE REYNOLDS 169 and as a member of the stake board of the Relief Society the finest qualities of her nature have been revealed and the richest services of her life have been given. Since her return from Europe in 1911, Miss Reynolds' work as a teacher in the Brigham Young University has been limited to the instruction of English literature and theology 1 in the college department. She has given a great deal of time and attention to analyzing the hymns of our home authors, and her classes in this division of work have always been popular. It has been estimated that no fewer than five thousand students have been in one or more of Miss Reynolds' classes. The great majority of these have had the outlines survey course, as well as one or more of her period courses in English literature. Her work in this field has always endured the publicity test. I mean by this that her students have enjoyed their work. Her clear, intellectual vision into the contents of literature has been softened and sustained by an aesthetic appreciation that has been contagious. Her students have been stimulated and inspired to be satisfied with nothing less than the great masterpieces of art. Browning, Tennyson, Wordsworth, Keats, Shelley, Spencer, Milton, Shakespeare—these and many other master minds have become the confidential companions of many thousands of Miss Reynolds' students. But her work has not been limited to our resident students. Her extension courses have attracted to their class meetings leaders of society, presidents and members of literary clubs, and women and girls of limited means and heavy household responsibilities. Circumstances have been such that they could not go out in quest of the rich literary treasures that the great books of the world contain. But Miss Reynolds has been willing to deny. Herself the rest and recreation that she needed in order to carry these treasures to the very doors of her friends. She has been with them to interpret and inspire. If one is to be rewarded in the kingdom of heaven for giving a crust of bread or a glass of cold water to the famishing body, what is to be the reward of one who administers the bread of life and the honey and wine of a rational existence to the famishing spirit that has come into a world of sin and sorrow for the sole purpose of being redeemed? No interest of life has appealed to Miss Reynolds more strongly than that of' books. She has done more to found and fashion the Brigham Young University Library than any other person in the world.. A few years ago, when the question of purchasing the Whitecotton Library was discussed in our faculty meeting, Miss Reynolds was the only optimist in the group. I was then young—I do not mean in years, but in library experience. Before Miss Rey- 
 nolds got through with, what the boys call her "argument," I was only one among many who were ashamed of their hesitancy. Unless some other person had been specially raised up for the task, I feel safe in saying that had there been no Alice Louise Reynolds, the -choice books in the Whitecotton Library—so far as the Brigham Young University is concerned—would have gone glimmering. Miss Reynolds is the first woman to found a library in the Brigham Young University, having placed the Alice Louise Reynolds' collection in this institution in 1918. I have been associated with Miss Reynolds for twenty years. I know that she has tact, talent, and taste, and I therefore think she will succeed. My visions of the future are not preternatural, but my faith is firm. It is mild modesty: to say of Miss Reynolds that she is a remarkable woman. Not every remarkable woman, however, has the tact, taste, and talent to be a successful editor of a magazine. But to predict failure of one whose efforts in so many fields of service have been crowned with eminent success, is to mock the © fairest and finest products of human endeavor. If I cannot say there is method in Miss Reynolds' madness, I can, with propriety,. Say there is magic in her method. Without being a siren or an enchantress, she does charm people into doing things that ought to be done. The rich contributions that she has made to my life are among my choicest possessions. God will continue to bless her, for she is one of his most faithful and devoted servants.