[Vol10 | April 1923 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Women Presiding in Latter-day Saint Temples]

Women Presiding in Latter-day Saint Temples Nothing seems more natural than that persons connected with the Relief Society should be interested in temple work, and subjects that naturally ally themselves to this work. Indeed, it would be a paradox were it otherwise. Since the opening of the Gospel dispensation on the 6th of April, 1830, eight temples have been erected by the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. This number includes the Kirtland temple, the Nauvoo temple, and the temple in Cardston, Canada, not yet furnished. The Relief Society from the beginning has been interested in family life, and in the perfecting of family life, from every worthy angle. Temple work has, as one of its prime purposes, the perpetuating of family life in the eternity that lies before us. The sisters of the Relief Society have been especially active in temple-work, particularly i in the making of temple clothes to be used in the temple 'and for burial purposes. In each of the temples a woman is chosen, blessed, and set apart to preside over the other sister workers. As time goes on it becomes part of the life of the Latter-day Saint woman to enter the temple and receive the ordinances for herself, as well as for her kindred dead. We feel sure that Latter-day Saint women will be interested in knowing something of the women who have been called and set apart to work in the various temples in Zion. Thirty years had not elapsed from the time the pioneers entered Salt Lake Valley until they had dedicated a temple to the Lord in the Dixie land of Utah. It is a most thrilling experience, after miles of riding over what is at best rather unattractive country, to come suddenly upon the sight of this beautiful, white building, nestled in the shade of fig trees. It appears to be a veritable miracle in the desert. The St. George temple, the first to be erected in this far western land, opened its doors for work in January, 1877. Three women have in turn presided over the women in this temple. The present incumbent is Wilhelmina M. Cannon Morris. Sister Morris was born in St. George, November 29, 1975, She is the daughter of President David H. Cannon and Witlhelmina L. M. Cannon. She was educated in the public schools of St. George, and the St. George stake Academy, from which she was graduated. 
 She has always been interested in Church work, and in the social activities of the community. A Sunday school teacher for twelve years, secretary of the Y. L. M. I. A. For three years, a Relief Society teacher for seven years, she was acquainted with Church service before she was called to be matron at the temple, which call came at the release of Sister Ann C. Woodbury, in 1917. That which stands out conspicuously in Sister Morris' Church work is the fact that, in addition to her work as matron in the temple, she has been endowed for six hundred and forty-seven persons. She was fathied to William T. Morris, a temple ordinance worker from Parowan stake, May 17, 1922. She is the mother of three children by a former marriage: Sister. Morris, who is familiarly known as "Aunt Mina," is eminently fitted for her position because of her kind, congenial disposition and affable manner. Elizabeth Yates Stoddard is in charge of the women's work in the Logan temple. She was born September 1, 1852, in the village of Bowlee, near Middleton, six miles from | Manchester, England. In the year 1862, she was baptized a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, emigrating to Utah in 1871. On her arrival she went at. Once to Cache valley to make her home, living first in Wellsville. She reached Utah in the month of July and in the month of November was married to John Stoddard. After fourteen years' of residence in Wellsville, she moved to Og- WOMEN PRESIDING IN TEMPLES 175 den, Utah, where she lived for five years. About the year 1890, she made another move—this time to Hood River, Oregon. At the conclusion of six years' residence in Oregon, she returned to Cache Valley, locating in the temple city of the north, Logan, Utah.. Mariner W. Merrill, then President of the Logan temple, first called Sister Stoddard into temple service. This call came in January, 1905. She had heen an officiator nine years when she was selected by President William Budge to preside over the sisters in the Logan temple, a position which she still fills with dignity and honor. But temple work is not the only Church work that has claimed Sister Stoddard's attention. She has worked in the Mutual Improvement Association, served as an instructor in Religion classes, having been set apart to this labor by Dr. Karl G. Maeser, and has also devoted twenty years of her life to the Relief Society. She is the proud mother of nine children; of this number four sons and two daughters are still living. She is greatly beloved of her associates in the temple, and hundreds of women in the Church who have received her ministrations in the House of the Lord, esteem her and hold her in honorable remembrance and are filled with love and blessing for her because of her kind and amiable disposition and womanly bearing. Her work in the temple is a source of constant joy and inspiration to her, and her devotion and faithfulness in the discharge of her duties calls forth the admiration of her associates; and of none is this more true than of those who preside over her in the Logan temple. The woman of benign features and saintly practice in her discharge of the duties of life, is Mary Ann Crowther Anderson, who presides over the women of the Manti temple. She was born on the 7th of May, 1851, at Bloomfield, Shropshire, England. She is the daughter of patriarch Thomas Crowther and Sarah Thomason. She came to the United States as early as 1853, arriving in Utah in 1855, so that she has lived through much of the pioneer life of her native state. That she has known sorrow is evidenced by the fact that when 
 she reached St. Louis on the way to the valleys, though of very tender years, she was deprived of her mother through death. The next year in her father's care, she came to Utah by ox-team. The very year of the completion of the Manti temple, she moved with her husband, now President Lewis Anderson, to the city of Manti. Sister Anderson was set apart as a temple worker, December 5, 1906, by Assistant President Andrew Thomson. She continued that work until January 30, 1916, when she was set apart as matron in charge of the women's work in the temple, by President Anthon H. Lund. Alice Almira Robinson Richards stands at the head of the women's work in the Salt Lake temple. She is the daughter of Oliver Lee and Lucy M. Robinson, and the wife of George F. Richards, of the Council of Twelve. She was born in Farmington, Davis county, Utah, May '14, 1864, and was married in the Endowment house in Salt Lake City, March 9, 1882. Sister Richards was one of a small group who journeyed to Vermont to dedicate the monument commemorating the centenary of the birth of: the Prophet Joseph me fe mom) 1905. In March, 1919, made a trip to England to ore her husband, then presiding over the European mission. She net only visited Great Britain, but journeyed to the continent where she visited the Netherlands. The call to her present position came from the First Presidency of the Church. She was set apart by President Heber J. Grant, August 25, 1922. Her work is directed towards the sisters who; with her, officiate in the ordinances of the temple. Yet the thing that stands out with great distinction in Sister Richards' life is her motherhood. She "truly j is one favored of the Lord, for in this period of time, when large families are the unusual rather than the usual thing, Sister Richards has had the privilege of bringing fifteen children into the world, good woman with greater joy than to bring children into the world and then witness them grow up to be worthy and God-fearthirteen of whom are still living. Nothing can fill the soul of a WOMEN PRESIDING IN TEMPLES 177 ing men and women. Ten of Sister Richards' children are married. All of these marriages have been solemnized in the temple. All of her sons and daughters are faithful members of the Church. Because she has been so favored ofthe Lord, it is perfectly natural that the main spring of all her activity has been in the home where her children needed care and training, and her husband the comfort of her companionship. Several of her sons have filled missions abroad and are at present holding important positons in the Church, as also important business positions. Surely this woman who presides over other women has a right to preside, for she has rare gifts which, coupled with her faith in God, have made of her a successful wife and mother. To her new position she brings that tact and cheerfulness of spirit which are indispensable to effective administration in the House of the Lord. Such positions require just these qualities, for persons who enter the temple feel that they are entering a place apart from the world, a place where no thought may abide that is not consistent with the Spirit and Will of the Lord. People who enter temples dedicated to his righteous service expect cordiality, cheerfulness and attention. These qualities radiate from the presence of women like Sister Richards. Olivia Sessions Waddoups, the seventh youngest of a family of fifty-five children, is also the youngest matron officiating in the Latterday Saint temples. She is the daughter of Perry Green Sessions, pioneer of 1847, of New England stock, and Sarah: Ann 'Bryson, of 'thrifty Scotch ancestry. She was born in Bountiful, Davis county, Utah, September 21, 1883. Olivia was a mere child when her father died, leaving the mother with a family of eleven children, she herself being one of the youngest. This good.| mother in Israel combined faith and works with Scotch thrift to the end of rearing her large family of children, for she was able to be both father and mother to them. These children had to learn to do everything around the home, and so Olivia grew up to young womanhood under the wholesome old-style influence where all took part in the daily 2 
 routine, and where all learned to know and to do those things alone which can make a house home, and where mother and children are both partners and chums. Olivia was educated in the common schools of her own town, and in the L. D. S. University, but most of her training and education has been attained through the sometimes hard, but always effective, school of experience. Her activities in the Church have been numerous. She has worked in the Sunday School, Mutual Improvement Association and Rerigion classes. October 12, 1904, she was married to William H. Waddoups in the Salt Lake temple. Three sons and three daughters have blessed this union; yet sorrow, too, has been their portion, for three of these children have been called beyond the veil. Soon after her marriage, she moved to Moore, Lost River, Idaho. Here she did the extraordinary thing of filling four Church positions at once. After two years' residence in Moore, Lost River, she was called with her husband by President Joseph F. Smith, on a mission to the Iosepa Colony, of the Hawaiian Saints in Tooele county, Utah. Here she worked for ten years with the Hawaiian Saints, laboring constantly with them in their various Church organizations. Here she presided over the Relief Society for a short period of time. A more extensive mission among the Hawaiian people lay before Sister Waddoups. In June, 1918, she was called with her husband to the Hawaiian Islands. Soon after the dedication of the Hawaiian temple, which occurred on November 7, 1919, she was set apart by President Lund to preside over the sister workers in the temple. In connection with this work, she now looks after temple clothing and assists the Hawaiian sisters in the care and making of it. In addition to Sister Waddoups' work in the temple, she was appointed by President E. Wesley Smith, at the April conference at Laie, in 1920, to preside over the Primaries of the Hawaiian mission. Yet another call awaited her, for on June 3, 1921, President Rudger Clawson gave to her the responsibility of being matron at the Laie mission home. Her work for many years has brought her in close touch with the lives and desires of the Hawaiian sisters; consequently, she has. A very large field of service. What stands out prominently throughout Sister Waddoups' life is the great responsibility she has at all times been asked to assume, and the apparent success that has followed all her labors on behalf of the Church. To be sure, she is one of rich, native endowment, who, through the blessings of the Lord, has been greatly added upon.