[Vol10 | April 1923 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: The Revolt of Grandma Davis Elsie C. Carroll]

The Revolt of Grandma Davis By Elsie C. Carroll "Ladies, please wait just a minute. I forgot a matter the Bishop wanted me to take up." Relief Society meeting had just been dismissed and the members, in little visiting groups, were beginning to move toward the door when Janet Prescott, the president, called them back. "The list of temple workers for the next excursion is to be made up this week and the Bishop wanted me to find out how many of the sisters can go for the two weeks, and, if possible, to get someone for the six-month temple mission. If you can give me your names now it will help." At the word temple a wistful, yearning look had crept into the sweet face of Grandma Davis. She listened hungrily while her companions discussed the question. "My, I'd love to go again," Phoebe Hunter exclaimed. 'We did have the best time last year. I wouldn't have missed it for anything, and I thought I'd go every year. But you see the children are hardly over the measles, so I can't 'possibly leave." "You can take my name," Sarah James said. "It is a rather expensive trip—us living so far away, but Howard and I both enjoyed it so much last time, wwe ve been sauine up a little all along so we could go again." "You may count on me, too," said Allie Strong. "And put Bertha Drake down. She couldn't come to meeting today, but I know she is counting on going. Neither of us could go last time and we've heard so much of the wonderful time you all had that we've decided not to let anything stop us this year." "T want to go again, too," said Millie Ashby. "I've been planning for it all year. It is a shame that everyone in the Church can't take advantage of these temple excursions. I don't know of anything that has given me such a feeling of inspiration and contentment." The yearning in Grandma Davis' eyes became more and more wistful as the discussion went on, and the list was made up. But she said nothing and no one mentioned her going. Hester Duncan, a young matron who. Had recently moved to Knollville and who was a new member of the Relief Society, had caught the wistfulness in Grandma's eyes and won- 
 dered at it. Had she been familiar with the circumstances of Grandma's life she would not have ventured the suggestion that came when the president finally said: "That is fine. We have our number and three extra. Now whom can you suggest for the six months' mission?" Quickly Hester said: "T've just been thinking all the while you've been talking, that Grandma Davis is just cut out for a temple missionary. You look like a dear saint meant purposely for that kind of work," she added impulsively, turning to Grandma. "You'd like to go, wouldn't you?" i The quick, queer hush that suddenly fell on the group, informed Hester that she had said something she shouldn't have said. She had no idea-what could have produced that strained situation. For a moment no one spoke, then the women one by one, or in groups, began to plead a need for hurrying home and started toward the door. Grandma's delicate face had flushed and Hester noticed that her thin hands were trembling and clinging to the back of the bench as if for support.. "Yes, dearie, I'd love to go,' she confided in a halfwhispered, choked voice. "But—but I can't. Thanks for saying what you did, though. I would love to go and spend a lot of time there if—if I could. I guess I'd better be going. Good bye." Grandma moved slowly toward the door leaving Hester and Janet Prescott alone. "Whatever did I do?" Hester demanded contritely when there was no longer any danger of Grandma's hearing. "O, my dear, that was too bad," Janet replied placing a soothing hand on Hester's shoulder, "but, of course, you did not know. There is no one in the ward so devoted to the Church and especially to temple work as Grandma Davis. What she said was perfectly true. She'd love to give her life to the work if she could." "Well, why can't she?' Hester urged. "She certainly hasn't anything' really to tie her. That is one of the greatest blessings of our temple work plan, it seems to me, that it provides such a beautiful way for our old people to spend their time." "Vou don't understand, dear.. While Grandma Davis would give her very life to the Church, her children will give nothing, and they prevent her from doing anything. O of course, she can come to meetings and things like that, but as for going to the temple to work—why with their attitude Grandma wouldn't think of attempting such a, thing." Hester Duncan stood for a moment pondering this. THE REVOLT OF GRANDMA DAVIS 181 "Who are her children?" she presently asked. 'And just how do they prevent her from doing what she wants to do?" "Why, George Davis, who runs the Opera House is her oldest boy, and Jim Davis, of the Davis Garage, is her other son. Helen Talboe and Callie White are her daughters." "Why, they are all well-to-do people. It isn't the money, then, that hinders her?" "No, and yes. They all have plenty of money and so as Grandma for her personal wants—but not for temple work." "Well, hasn't she any home or property of her own?" "No, they've got it all into their hands, and she just lives around with one or another of them." "But they all seem respectable people." "They are. But they are not only indifferent, but prejudiced against the Church. It grew out of something that happened a long time ago to their father, I believe. When he was a young man he was drunk one time and disturbed a meeting and wouldn't make it right and was disfellowshiped. That made him bitter and he had his influence with the children. Grandma always tried to bring him back into the Church, and just before he died he did see how foolish and unwise he had been, and was reinstated and tried to convert the children, but apparently they had received the wrong kind of training too long." "Well, they shouldn't-be allowed to impose upon that dear old mother," Hester declared with spirit. "Something surely ought to be done." "Yes. Something surely ought to be done," Janet Prescott agreed. "We all know that. But how? And who is going to do it?": "Well,—maybe I am," Hester laughed. "I feel that I've got to do something for hurting her like I did this afternoon. Did you notice how her dear old face quivered and how her hands gripped the back of the bench? Why, I felt like I'd struck an innocent little helpless child." - "I wish you could do something. Nothing would please the whole ward more, for we all love Grandma Davis and feel so sorry for her." "Well—I won't say anything just yet," Hester said with a slowly forming determination, "but you watch me. They say 'fools rush in,' etc. But don't get anyone else for that temple mis- —_ until you hear from me. I'm going to see if I can't incite a revolt." 
 A few days later Hester invited Grandma Davis and a few other of the older ladies of Knollville to her home for dinner. "Tt is my mother's birthday," she explained. "My mother is so far away I couldn't have her with me, so I just felt as if I'd have to borrow some of you mothers for the afternoon." They had a lovely visit and when it was time for them to go Hester managed to detain Grandma Davis. "You wait a few minutes, Grandma, while I Fic this letter to mother—telling about her birthday party—and Pll walk home with you on my way to the post office." When they were walking down the cool street in the calm of the early summer evening Hester decided it was time to begin her instigation. "Grandma, I can't tell you how sorry I was when I hurt you the other day, but of course you understand I did not know. The ladies told me, of course—your—your situation. Now, because I've sort of adopted you in my heart for my Knollville mother and have grown to love you so much during the short time I've been here, I'm going to talk to) you like I'd wish some one would talk to my mother if I were one of your daughters. You don't mind, do you?" "No, dearie. I'd like to have you go on," Grandma's sweet, voice quavered ever so little as she added, "you don't know how happy I'd be if my daughters—my children had—had your spiri:, my dear." Then as if fearing she might have been disloyal she added hastily, "they are good children, though—if only—they hadn't lost—the faith." "Of course, they are good children and what I want you to see is that you are doing them an injustice as well as yourself by not taking a definite stand—by not waking them up. Grandma, you must revolt." They were passing the small village park and Hester led Grandma in toward a park bench. A timid, doubtful look had sprung into Grandma's face. "How—how do you mean? I don't want to make them more bitter, and it seems to, when I—antagonize them." "Don't antagonize them. Just make a stand. Show them that you are a real person with individual rights—and they'll respect you for it." "O my dear, you don't know how often I've dreamed about doing that and prayed to have the courage to do it—but somehow I never could bring myself to it. I suppose it was living so long with father—he had such a dominant spirit you know. But even he couldn't influence them after he changed. So what can I do?" _ THE REVOLT OF GRANDMA DAVIS 183 "You can at least live your own life in your own way without fear or trembling, and I believe your change in attitude will have a lot to do with bringing them to a realization of what they are losing." "O I'd do anything if I thought I could bring them back to the faith." Grandma's voice was trembling with earnestness. "What would you suggest for me to do, and how?" Then Hester outlined the plan she had evolved, and, with Hester's indomitable spirit supporting her Grandma, agreed to try it. Together they worked out the details during the next week. They had taken only the bishop and Janet Prescott into confidence. The temple excursion left Knollville Thursday morning. Thursday evening about nine o'clock Helen Talboe's daughter Nell came to Hester's home. "Ts Grandma Davis here?" she inquired. » "No dear, she isn't," Hester answered with forced calm. "Why, when did she leave? Did you see which way she went?" "Your Grandma has not been here today," Hester told her. "O I wonder where she is. Mama thought sure she was over here. She likes to come here so much." "She was here yesterday but she hasn't been here today," Hester explained with a feeling of guilt when she noticed the deepening concern in the little girl's eyes. "T must go and tell mama. I wonder if my Grandma's lost." The child ran with little choking sobs down the path. Hester spent the next hour doing a thing she would have scorned to do at any other time. She listened in on the telephone. —the rural telephone, which is no respecter of any one's secrets. Helen Talboe called her sister Callie first. "Callie, is mother there?" "Why no. I've hardly seen her for a week. I was going to ee ayer this evening and see her. Why is she keeping in so close?" "She isn't," Helen's voice replied with vanishing control, "She's away every day lately and seems so different. I'll call Jim. She must be there." There was a bur-r-r of shorts and longs and then Hester heard Helen's voice again. "Hello. Madge? Is mother there?" "Why no, Helen. Jim was just asking at supper what was the matter with grandma. She hasn't been here for a week. I was going to call up and ask her to come over tomorrow and spend the day. You tell her for me, will you?" 
 "YVes—if I can find her," came Helen's voice a bit unsteadily. "She hasn't been home since morning. I supposed she was over to Hester Duncan's. She's been running over there a lot lately but I guess she's at George's. Good-bye." Another medley of rings and Helen Talboe's anxious inquiry, "George, is that you? Is mother there?" "Why, no. Dot is just getting the kiddies to bed so we can run up a minute. We haven't seen mother for a week. What are you doing to keep her so busy she can't drop in on the rest of us once in a while?" Helen's choked voice cut him off. "George—I don't know where on earth mother can be. She hasn't been home since morning and I've phoned every where." There was a quick succession of sobs and a banging up of receivers. It was Bob Talboe's voice to come next. He called Callie first and learned that she had just gone to his house. Then he called Jim. "Your mother's out somewhere," he told Jim, "and Helen thinks she's lost or something. Run over a few minutes, can't, you?" Hester decided now was the time to send Grandma's message. She called Ned who was playing with some companions in the back yard. "Run over to Bob Talboe's with this letter, Ned. Give it to any of them that you see first and hurry right back." Hester had feminine curiosity enough to wish she might see Grandma's family as they read her startling ultimatum. She had written:: "Dear children: You will all be surprised to get this and to know that while you are reading it I am on my way to work for six months in the temple. I know, of course, how you feel about temple work and you know how' I feel about it, so we won't go into that. I don't want to have any hard feelings with any of you, for I love you all so much, but I have decided I can't give up my religion because you want me. To. I know how the converts out, in the world feel when they have to choose between their loved ones and the gospel. For a long time I haven't had courage to choose, but I've made up my mind at last. It is my right to live my own life the way I think it should be lived. "As I said in the beginning ''m going to spend six months in the temple. As you know I haven't any property or money in my own name, but if you are not willing for me to have what is rightfully mine to do as I choose with, I shall accept help from the THE REVOLT OF GRANDMA DAVIS 185 Church until I can take legal steps to secure my share of the property I helped your father to earn. "T am hoping you will feel as you ought to about it, and that no such action will 'be necessary, for I want more than anything elge to come back to Knollville when my temple mission is over and feel that I still have the love of my dear but misguided children. "T love you all so much, "Your revolting "MoTHER." For several days Hester wondered and worried about Grandma Davis' affair. Then one morning this letter came to her. "My dear Hester—I can never tell you how grateful I am. The children telegraphed me money the next day after I left, and they've all written the dearest letters begging me to forgive them and insisting on my promising to come back just as soon as I can and promising to make the rest of my days happy. I can feel that they all mean it and that the blessing I have prayed for is going to be granted. "Thank you, my dear, a thousand times, for the courage you gave me to make a stand.