[Vol55 | February 1968 | Page 121 | General Feature | The Home Inside and Out The Hot Dish Heart | Helen Hinckley Jones]
THE HOT DISH HEART Helen Hinckley Jones =» Mama didn't have any French words in her vocabulary, not even the familiar housewifely word "casserole." But she did have both knowledge and wisdom about what she called the "hot dish." Mama had an enamelware pan—blue on the outside and white on the inside—that went into our oven almost every day. Before we baked with gas or electricity, the blue pan often stayed in the oven all day, and in it beans baked slowly in a luxury of molasses, spice, and bits of ham. Another dish that required slow baking was the rice, brown sugar, and raisins that bubbled and grew a creamy beige as Mama turned under, again and again, the brown skin that formed on the top. Potatoes were another stand-by. Mama sometimes peeled and cubed boiled potatoes that had been cooked in their well-scrubbed "jackets," poured creamy cheese sauce over them, and whisked the blue pan that held this everyday goodness into the oven only long enough to bake a crumbly crust of cracker crumbs, butter, and cheese that topped it. If Mama had all afternoon, she peeled uncooked potatoes and sliced them very thin. Into the blue pan, prepared with real butter, she put a layer of potatoes, then a sprinkling of flour, salt and pepper; potatoes again, again salt, pepper, and flour until the pan was two thirds full. Over this she carefully poured rich milk. Slowly, the potatoes grew tender in the slow oven. By some enchantment not known to me, the milk didn't curdle. Some of it was absorbed by the potatoes and it, in turn, absorbed the flour and the seasonings—delicious. On special occasions, Mama covered the potatoes with loin pork chops and let their succulent goodness permeate to the very bottom of the blue pan in a process which Papa called "gilding the lily." Macaroni and cheese made Mama's slow-baked way, was all right. So was stew of yesterday's pot roast of beef, potatoes, carrots and onions, topped with made-from-scratch sour cream biscuits. But my favorite was veal pie. Early in the morning, or sometimes even the night before, Mama boiled veal shanks or shoulder. She sometimes allowed me to help her to pick the meat from the bone, though I often ate more than I put in the bowl. To the bite-sized pieces of meat, she added what she called "milk gravy." Carefully, she lined the sides of the blue pan with a paper-thin strip of crust, then she added the meat and the gravy, and topped the whole thing with a circle of crust. In the crust she cut two long slits that looked to us like willows. They must have been meant for willows, because along 121 29 i each side of the shia nlade leaf-like perforations, and the edge she fluted to the side\dining with perfect stallops. Was there ever anything as beautiful ds Mama's deep-dish véal pie? When something was it jaking in the blue pan, I would return to the kitchen, again and again, for several deep sniffs between practicing Hanon on the piano and reading my library book. Finally, when I could tolerate the anticipation no longer, I would hang around the kitchen complaining, "But, Mama, it's so long until dinner!" Sometimes, Mama would put me to setting the table, but other times she would take the blue pan from the oven and put it neatly in the center of a dazzling washed and boiled dish towel. As she reached for the corners of the towel to tie it into a carrying basket my heart would turn over with the pain of loss. Mama had made this beautiful food for some other family! Sometimes, it went to a house where a new family was moving in, to welcome strangers into the brotherhood (sisterhood, or youngsterhood) of our pleasant block. Sometimes, it went to a family moving out who didn't have time to cook in the midst of packing and the thorough house cleaning that used to go with leaving a rented house. Sometimes, it went to a friend who had unexpected house guests and could use the extra food, or to one who was ill and couldn't get around to go to the store or to cook. We didn't often send store-bought flowers to funerals, but the blue pan was always early, often the first food to arrive at any home from which a family member had departed. I was often entrusted with the delivery. Half rebelliously, I would carry the dish-towel basket like a suitcase, banging it for a while against one leg, then for a time against the other. If the delivery had interrupted some specially important activity like playing "onesies and twosies" with my friend Virginia, I would kick a rock in front of me on purpose to wear out my shoes and wonder what would happen if the blue pan got lost and could never get home. It never did get lost. Everybody knew the Hinckley's blue pan. One day, an unusual family came into our town and settled, with the permission of the town or county (I never did know which), into a shabby, vacant house. The house had been purchased, I think, because it stood on land needed for an extension of the cemetery, and it had never been demolished. The mother went right to bed and added another baby to the family. The father, the first unemployed man I had ever seen, sat in the kitchen. He didn't read, 122 The Home—Inside and Out he didn't make willow whistles for his boys or doll furniture for his girls, he just sat. Nearly every day Mama sent a hot dish, by me, to this family. I knew the rules. The blue pan went to homes where the mother was ill and couldn't get around to go to the store or to cook. But that good-for-nothing man sitting in the kitchen and rising only to spoon the beautiful food into an ugly, soiled soup tureen and to give me back the unwashed pan without even a thank you, I could not tolerate. One morning when Mama tied my favorite veal pie into a dish towel basket, I exploded into tears and angry words. "Why don't we eat this ourselves?" I demanded. "Just our family?" "Why, dear," Mama said, "if we didn't: carry food to this family, they would go hungry. You wouldn't want all of those little people to be hungry, would you?" "Well, ''m hungry," I insisted. "All morning I've been thinking about this pie. And that good-for-nothing father...." I loved this long descriptive word I had heard others use. Papa, hearing my angry voice, came into the kitchen. He gave me his handkerchief to dry my eyes, then he sat down and stood me facing him. He spoke slowly. "Honey, I want you to remember this. Every minute of every day there is a baby born who will never in his life be able to really take care of himself. Even when he grows up to be a man he'll have to depend upon others. Jesus said, 'For ye have the poor always with you.'" "But Papa," I protested, feeling the tears coming again, "he's not blind. He has two legs and two arms, and...." Papa offered the handkerchief again.
