[Vol55 | February 1968 | Page 134 | General Feature | Notes From the Field Relief | Society Activities]
[Notes From the Field Relief Society Activities]

Glenna MacDonald, President, Great Falls Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Conrad Branch held a very successful musical program and style show. The program emphasized sewing for the family. "This accomplishment made mothers realize just what wonderful things can be done for the family with just a little effort. "The sisters were presented with a pin-cushion corsage made in the shape of a spring bonnet. Light refreshments were served to a very appreciative audience." 134 All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society: presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966; page 50. SY SRA Beaver Stake (Utah), Greenville Ward Relief Society, Small But Active Standing, left to right: Margaret W. Barton, President, Greenville Ward Relief Society; Afton S. Kesler, First Counselor; Mary Ann M. Williams, Second Counselor; Maxine D. Barton, Secretary-Treasurer; Sofia G. Yardley, social relations leader; Nell B. Blackett, cultural refinement leader. Insert: Lillian M. Williams, Secretary-Treasurer, Beaver Stake Relief Society, former president Greenville Ward Relief Society. Seated, left to right: Donna C. Morris; Bessie F. Edwards, visiting teacher message leader; Nettie C. Fordham, Magazine representative; Loretta Thompson; Alice M. Burton; Ann W. Blackner. Lucille A. Murdock, President, Beaver Stake Relief Society, reports: ''We are extremely proud of this little ward whose total membership is only seventy-nine, and whose Relief Society has seventeen members. They have made a fine reputation for Relief Society activity, and their quilts are among the best ever made. "The quilt in the picture is one example of the many satin and tricot quilts they have made. There is a special spirit of devotion and dedication among these fine sisters." 

185 February 1968

 Oquirrh East Stake (Utah) Sponsors Clothing Exchange and Remodeling School August 21-25, 1967 Oquirrh East Stake Relief Society Officers, standing left to right: Jean Gourley, Counselor; Evelyn Kemp, Secretary-Treasurer; Jean Pixton, Counselor. Seated: Evalyn Olsen, President. Sister Olsen reports: ''About sixty women participated in our clothing exchange and remodeling school, which proved to be very successful. 'Approximately 700 articles were remodeled or exchanged. Many useful ideas were available to aid sisters in alterations and making over articles of clothing. Women's coats were converted into children's coats, women's dresses into girls' dresses or blouses, or boys' shirts. "This project was of great help to many of the families affected by the copper strike in our area. A great deal of advance publicity through the local newspaper and distribution of handbills enabled us to reach more people. "It was indeed a choice experience for us, and we appreciate so much the help ~ that the ward presidents gave in planning and carrying out the event." North Carolina Stake Singing Mothers Present Music for Quarterly Conference May 21, 1967 Front row, seventh to ninth from left: Madolyn Mackey, director; DeAnn Westover, accompanist; Katherine Bailey, President, North Carolina Stake Relief Society. Sister Bailey reports: ''The North Carolina Stake Relief Society Singing Mothers presented the music for stake conference, held in Wilmington, North Carolina. About sixty Singing Mothers participated, representing the entire stake made up of seven wards and six branches. Many of the sisters had to travel as much as 250 miles round trip to participate. The sisters were most diligent in giving of their time and energy to practice. They seem to find great pleasure in singing together, and have sung for stake conferences annually since the organization of the stake in 1961. All executive officers and two members of the stake board sang with the chorus. We were all so appreciative of the opportunity to lift our voices in praise to our Heavenly Father." Hawaii Mission Relief Society Convention September 1-3, 1967 Imogene R. Woodbury, Supervisor, Hawaii Mission Relief Society, reports: ''The warmth of sisterhood and a wonderful spirit filled the hearts of members of the Hawaii Mission as they met on the garden island, Kauai. Meetings consisted of educational, homemaking, and executive sessions, under the direction of Chiyo Meyers, Mission Relief Society President, her counselors Ethel Young and Ruth Kondo; and 'Secretary Pearl Mahi. "Lesson demonstrations were presented by each district, along with recipes and handicraft skills. A convention brochure was given to each sister attending the convention. The brochure included a program of meetings, directions for making handicraft articles, household hints, and recipes. "On display in the homemaking department were samples and crafts representing the various activities of the twenty-two branches and four districts of the mission. Outstanding were the beautiful 'kapas,' or Hawaiian quilts which are unique for their beautiful, appliquéd designs. 'Kauai Relief Society sisters were praised for their splendid job of hostessing the convention. They arranged for accommodations, met planes, provided transportation and meals, and planned a delicious {uau to which each district contributed a part of the entertainment. "It was indeed a spiritual, enjoyable, and worthwhile time for the sisters who attended." 136 LET éi »: 12a Oo2aBe February 1968 Norfolk Stake (Virginia) Singing Mothers Present Concert May 6, 1967 Members of the stake board, front row seated, sixth from left, Robina Woodgate, visiting teacher leader; first row standing, thirteenth from left, Mildred Cramer, social relations leader; fourteenth, Elizabeth Ray Jackson, cultural refinement; second row seated, sixth from left, Ann Thonlinson, spiritual living leader; back row, eighth from left, Lorna McPherson, President; sixteenth from left, Nathatia Wettstein, Homemaking Counselor. Standing, front row behind organ, left to right: Dawn Killen, guest organist; Glenona Farnsworth, guest conductor, who trained and conducted the group; Charleen Ogden, stake board organist and concert accompanist; Gladys Skinner, President, Norfolk Second Ward Relief Society and narrator for the concert. Sister McPherson reports: ''After seven months of planning and practice, the first concert of the Norfolk Stake Relief Society Singing Mothers was presented in the stake house in Norfolk, Virginia. "The theme for the evening was 'With a Song in My Heart'—a tribute to mothers and their far-reaching influence. There were sixty sisters in the chorus, representing five Relief Societies. The five wards are so located that much travel was required for practice and performance. "At the close of the concert, refreshments were served to the group of 400, many of whom were nonmembers who expressed their appreciation for the outstanding performance."' Tooele Stake (Utah), Tooele First Ward Honors Visiting Teachers July 11, 1967 Shirley Wright, President, Tooele First Ward Relief Society, presents Anna Gillespie with a corsage for her outstanding service as a visiting teacher. Alice Harrison, President, Tooele Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The presidency of the Tooele First Ward Relief Society were hostesses at a luncheon honoring the visiting teachers of the ward. "Special recognition was given to Sister Anna Gillespie for her outstanding record as a visiting teacher. She has served for twenty-six years, and during that time has never missed a month in making her visits. She has served in the other auxiliaries of the ward as well as Relief Society, and is an inspiration to all who know her." Parleys Stake (Utah), Parleys Sixth Ward Presents Opening Social September 20, 1967 Parleys Sixth Ward Relief Society officers, seated, left to right: Betty Henderson, First Counselor; Luciile Taylor, President; Esther Smart, Second Counselor; Millie Barnes, Secretary. Standing, left to right: Aaron Hatch; Rhea Allen, accompanist; Judith Marsh; Olive Roberts; Laraine Ferguson; Elizabeth Platt; Patti Hatch; Melba Croft; Dorothy Bench; Gertrude Garff; Afton Miller; Connie Manwill. Mary B. Riley, President, Parleys Stake Relief Society, reports: ''For an opening social, Parleys Sixth Ward presented a musical skit written by Helen C. White, consisting of music from 'My Fair Lady,' to introduce the officers and teachers. Dorothy Bench, as Eliza, sang 'Show Me,' and was shown just how Relief Society could change her life. Each class leader showed how her program could enrich the life of Eliza. In the end, Eliza was a new person." 

138 February 1968

 Mt. Olympus Stake (Utah), East Milcreek Fifth Ward Bazaar 'The Country Village" October 1967 Left to right: Faun Tavoian, President, East Millcreek Fifth Ward Relief Society; Dorothy Leitheiser, Second Counselor; Jewell Doxey; Lucille Skanchy; Joyce Duce, Secretary-Treasurer; Frances Fritsch, First Counselor; Eileen Parker. Jelaire Simpson, President, Mount Olympus Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The East Millcreek Fifth Ward Bazaar, 'The Country Village,' was a huge success. The cultural hall was turned into a country village street with shops on either side. At the end of the hall, the village picnic square featured old-fashioned stew, piping hot scones, and many other delicious foods. Red checked tablecloths adorned the round tables, and nearby was the Shoo-fly Bake Shop, with an aroma of home-baked goods fresh from the oven, and Kelby's Ice Cream Parlor, boasting freshly cranked, homemade ice cream cones. "Old-fashioned individual stores such as Higbee's Handmades, featuring beautiful, handmade clothing for children; Bigler's Baby Stores; 'Oh Promise Me' Bridal Shop; Kringles Kristmas Shop; Crabtree Drugstore; and Ye Old Curiosity Shoppe were arrayed with lovely handmade articles. The articles were of such variety and quality that the Bazaar was virtually a sell-out." Sydney South Stake (Australia) Relief Society Officers September 14, 1967 Sydney South Stake Relief Society officers, seated, left to right: Joan McCoy, First Counselor; Mavis Draper, President; Delle Hunt, Second Counselor; Betty Ireland, SecretaryTreasurer. Standing, left to right: June Fulthorp, chorister; Myrtle Hugo, organist; Ruth Pepper, visiting teacher message leader; Nita Ehmann, social relations class leader; Marjorie Newton, cultural refinement class leader; Eva Hennant, spiritual living class leader; Mary Proctor, Magazine representative., Mavis Draper, President, Sydney South Stake Relief Society reports: ''These sisters are very happy in their callings and their desire is to help our stake grow in Relief Society activities and appreciation. They are dedicated and devoted to the gospel and work very hard."' Murray Stake (Utah), Murray Fifteenth Ward Bazaar, ''A World's Fair" August 17, 1967 Left to right, in '"'Picasso's Pastry" bake sale booth, representing Italy: Charlene P. Singleton, homemaking leader; Nida Kitchens; Karen Aubrey. Shirley H. Horton, President, Murray Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Murray Fifteenth Ward held a well-planned and well-organized bazaar with the theme 'A World's Fair.' Booths representing eleven countries were used. Those who attended the booths wore costumes depicting the country. "Because of the time and effort required to make a bazaar successful, these sisters did as much as possible beforehand. The committees had been organized immediately following the previous year's bazaar. Teenagers set up a nursery to care the for young children during the preparations. On the night of the bazaar everyone was relaxed and able to enjoy it thoroughly. This contributed greatly to its success. "Games at the bazaar to entertain the many children were themed around an African Safari, and featured the Hippo Fish Pond, King Kong Dart Game, and the Elephant Peanut Toss, among others.'