[Vol55 | February 1968 | Page 105 | General Feature | Woman's Sphere | Ramona W. Cannon]

Woman's
Sphere

Ramona W. Cannon

Miss Clarice Kerr, now retired and living in Scottsdale, Arizona, has been presented a "superior service" award by the United States Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, in recognition of her contributions to improving the health and welfare of American Indians, through her outstanding performance in nursing service, administration, and staff development. The presentation was made by Dr. Leo J. Gehrig, Assistant Surgeon General at the National Institute of Health in Bethesda, Maryland. Most recently Miss Kerr was director of nursing at the Indian Hospital, Fort Defiance, Arizona. She has also served in hospitals caring for Gros Ventre, Assiniboine, and Alaskan Indians.

Woman executives in the United States who have become millionaires, principally through their own businesses (or co-owned with husbands) are: Mrs. Lynn Stuart, women's apparel; Miss Pat Palmer, real estate; Mrs. Ruth Handler, toy business (creator of Barbie dolls); Mrs. Lynn Pressman, fashion director, toy merchandising, and industrial real estate; Miss Jessie Frankfurt, glamorous maternity dresses, countrywide chain stores, real estate; Miss Jane Trahey, advertising agency, specializing in articles that sell to women.

Miss Barbara Thompson, Navajo, was winner of the Fried Bread Contest in the All-Indian Days celebration held in Bluff, Utah, in June 1967.

Mrs. Marvin Wallin, Salt Lake City, Utah, is the mother of triplet sons, all of whom have recently returned from missions for The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints: Scott served his mission in New Zealand, Kent in Austria, and Craig in Samoa. All the boys are Eagle Scouts and all hold Duty to God awards. They are presently enrolled in three separate Utah colleges.

Nancy Sweet-Escott, born and brought up in Gloucestershire, England, is the only woman steeplechase horse trainer on the major tracks in the United States. She is also a well-known research veterinarian, much in demand.

Mrs. Mary Kaltman is chief housekeeper in the White House, Washington D.C. She has seventy assistants who help her to keep the 132 rooms in cleanliness and order. Such household tasks as washing the crystal chandeliers, cleaning the windows, dusting and polishing the furniture, mopping the carpets, and cooking and serving meals for the presidential family and the many guests, are only a few of the many jobs that must receive prompt and meticulous attention.

Keiko Fukuda, a tiny Japanese woman, an official guest at the World Judo Championship contests in Salt Lake City, has taught judo to many American women in the United States. Judo grew out of a religious foundation, she states, and is supposed to give spiritual as well as physical strength and grace.

105
