[Vol55 | February 1968 | Page 109 | Fiction | The Wedding Gift Kathryn | E. Franks]
THE WEDDING GIFT Kathryn E. Franks e Hope Farrel, on a bright October afternoon, hung up the telephone receiver just as Judy, her ten-year-old daughter, blew into the kitchen. She came in after school as usual with a great deal of zest and hunger. Judy dropped her schoolbooks on the table with a thud and turned toward the refrigerator, her hair shining as she twirled as if summer sun were still reflected there. "That was Ruth Webb on the phone," Hope told Judy. "She's moving Carol's wedding shower up to the fifteenth. Works better for most of-the girls." "Oh," exclaimed Judy, her hazel eyes suddenly dismayed. "What is it, dear?' Hope asked. "Something else planned?" "No, but that's so soon. It's just that I haven't decided on a gift for Carol." "Tll help,' Hope _ offered, thinking of the list she had been adding to and crossing off in connection with Carol's wedding. Right now Hope felt that she was playing tit-tat-toe. "We'll go Saturday," she said, "before I start my other errands." "No, thanks, Mom," Judy replied. "This is special. I want to select Carol's gift by myself." 

109 February 1968

 "You're right, it is special. Not every day your only, older sister gets married." Too late, Hope sensed she had made the wrong remark. Judy had swung around and fled up the stairs. I haven't been aware, Hope reasoned, with so many of the wedding details on my mind, how difficult this is for Judy. Whatever, Hope wondered in distress, is Judy going to do when Carol is married and away from home? How will Judy sleep at night knowing Carol isn't in the bed across from her? I have never, Hope thought proudly, seen two sisters so absolutely fond of each other, and completely devoted to one another. Earl had been a_ pretty, brown-haired, eleven-year-old the year Judy was born. Hope had feared Carol might display jealousy, but instead she had been childishly delighted with' her baby sister. At once, Carol had tended the baby in a manner that had amazed Hope. Understandingly enough, before Judy was a year old she had turned to Carol for her needs. Judy had insisted upon Carol dressing her, and undressing her. It had been Carol who had helped Judy into her pink sleepers and read the nursery rhymes. Sometimes, Hope thought, smiling now thinking about it, she had felt shut out. For instance, it had been Carol's hand Judy reached for when she took her first steps.... Carol that left her at the door the first day of school. 110 Through the years, Hope had marveled how Carol, unselfishly, totally unaware of it, had Judy's interests and welfare in mind. When Judy was three, Carol had insisted that Judy be moved into the room with her. Carol, fourteen then, had voiced definite ideas on how the room should be arranged and decorated. To blend with the rosepink walls and the pink striped curtains, they had purchased two white beds, with a night stand to go between. It was on the night stand, later, when Judy was_ seven, that they placed the lamp. The girls had been Christmas shopping in Harland's Department Store, when they first saw the blue and white porcelain based lamp with the childish Dutch designs. The shade was made of crisp white organdy. Loaded down with packages and covered with snow, Carol and Judy had arrived home, excited, determined to take their own money and go back to buy the lamp. Since then, the lamp had stood on the night stand between the two beds, a bond between the sisters. When Carol came in after an evening out, more times than not, Judy awakened, snapped on the lamp, sat up in bed, drew her knees up under the covers and listened eagerly while Carol, rolling her hair up in curlers, chatted about the events of the day. Naturally, it was Judy who first saw the engagement ring and heard the announcement. Also, there was a little trick the girls played, like: "Last one to bed turns out the light." These words were called from the shower or the dressing table. With that, the two sisters, Carol, a tall working girl, and Judy, a frisky, ten-year-old, scrambled across the room, pushing and shoving, trying to reach her bed first so that the last one in had to switch off the lamp. Now Judy, Hope realized sadly, was faced with the idea of being alone in her room. Soon Carol would be moved to an apartment of her own. Hope had met the same problem, but with more common sense than sentiment. She tried to concentrate on Carol's happiness, and the blessing that Carol was marrying such a fine young man as Hank. Judy, however, had escaped to her room, faced now with the problem of selecting a gift for her sister. Ni: wanting to intrude, but hoping she might help, Hope picked up aé freshly ironed blouse and carried it up to Judy's room. Hope tapped on the door, and Judy's_ feeble voice answered "Come in." As Hope entered, Judy folded two one-dollar bills around a fifty-cent coin and placed them in her blue handkerchief box. "If you haven't the cash for Carol's gift," Hope suggested, "Tll add what you need for the gift." "No thanks," Judy stated, impossibly independent for her age, "if it's going to be my gift, Ill buy it myself." Hope knew that Judy was planning on earning a few dollars by feeding Mrs. Carlson's poodle while she went to visit The Wedding Gift her son. Now the shower date was set up before Mrs. Carlson's visit, and Judy was in a quandary. Hope wondered if Judy had heard some private remarks between herself and her husband. About. The cost of the wedding, and if that was the reason she was so determined not to take her mother's money. Carol was carrying most of the expense of her wedding dress and the smaller details, but, as parents, they were meeting the other expenses. Or Judy knew, perhaps without hearing, that any expense right now was a burden to her parents, and that was why she felt so determined not to take one penny. Without any doubt, Hope knew for certain what Judy wanted to buy. She and Judy had stopped in the furniture store less than a week ago, when Hope saw Judy holding an early American, copper teakettle. Hope pretended not to _ hear when Judy asked the price. "Six-fifty," the clerk answered. Hope had winced. Judy, still holding the teakettle, remarked, "Carol likes early American. I know because when we walked by here the other afternoon Carol stopped and looked in the window. She said something about the teakettle but when she saw the price, we walked on without going inside. There is an artificial fireplace in the apartment she and Hank are — going to rent. This would look nice on the white mantle. "It is pretty," Hope added, "and Carol and Hank won't be buying many decorative pieces at first. I know she'd love it." 

111 February 1968

 Hope had moved away, looking for the furniture polish, wanting Judy to make her own selection. Apparently she had decided, for Hope heard her ask the clerk to save the teakettle until the twenty-ninth when she would be in to pay for it. Now, hanging Judy's blouse in the closet, Hope said slowly, "Judy, I think you need some help now that Helen has set the date up so soon. I'll lend you the money, and you go down and pick up the gift. You can have it gift-wrapped, then you can pay me back the difference after Mrs. Carlson pays you." Judy leaped from the bed and grabbed her sweater. "I guess I'll have to," Judy admitted, her face brightening. "Tll walk down now, if you'll lend me four dollars. I'll be back before dinner." Hope hadn't finished peeling the potatoes when she saw Judy coming back, cutting across the front yard, her shoulders sagging, and her face looking more miserable than Hope had ever seen it. When she opened the door she couldn't hold back the tears. "The copper teakettle was sold." She could barely speak above a whisper. She looked so brokenhearted, Hope longed to put her arms around her and comfort her. "Wasn't there another one?" Hope couldn't believe Judy could be right. Certainly there was a mistake. "No," Judy replied, putting Hope's money back on_ the table. "Another clerk didn't know and sold the teakettle only a few days ago." 112 "We'll think of something else," Hope reassured her. "After dinner, we'll think of something." "No," Judy answered, and turned toward the stairs. That evening when Carol came in late from work, she found Judy studying her math, dry-eyed, cheerful as usual. Hope felt astonished that Judy could put on such an act. Carol would never guess by Judy's manners that anything was wrong. Ik ater, in the upstairs hallway putting away clean sheets, Hope heard Judy's voice as she was crawling into bed, saying in a frail voice, "I'm going to miss you, Carol, dreadfully." "I'm going to miss you, too, infant. But, after all, I'm not going to be that far away." Hope stepped into the bedroom to tell her daughters good night just as the two girls reached up together to turn off the night stand lamp. Saturday afternoon, after a busy morning, Hope asked Judy if she might drive her downtown where she could buy another gift for Tuesday night. "Thanks, anyway," Judy informed her mother with her old zest, "but the gift has already been taken care of.' Her voice echoed a hint of secrecy, and Hope knew better than to question. What could she have bought, Hope wondered anxiously, with less than three dollars? Could it have been in that big bag she had carried in only this morning? That sack had been large enough to hold a hatbox. Hope received an unusual number of telephone calls, had her own dress to alter, and marketing to do the day of the shower. When: it was time to dress, Hope felt she had been circling around on a roller rink all day. Her feet felt so heavy and tired, she wondered if she could possibly get them into her dress shoes, but good, dependable Judy on the living-room sofa, was dressed and waiting with her gift. She looked so fresh and neat in her yellow, brass-buttoned jumper and white blouse, Hope knew how proud Carol would be when she saw Judy. Carol was already at Helen Webb's house, thinking she was only invited to dinner. Everything appeared to be working out fine, except Hope couldn't shake off the concern about Judy's gift. Not that Carol wouldn't love anything Judy selected, but Hope didn't want Judy embarrassed in front of Carol's friends. Finally, with her own gift, an electric skillet Carol wanted and needed, Hope collected her purse and gloves, and signaled to Judy. With a mixture of tiredness, happiness, and anxiety, Hope drove with Judy _ beside her, through the crisp autumn evening toward Helen Webb's house., Hope would treasure always the startled expression on Carol's face when her friends and she and Judy crowded into Helen's living room. Instantly, Carol had her natural, quick, sparkling smile for everyone, but she couldn't resist in reaching over, to hug Judy and to kiss her mother's cheek. Hope's shoes pinched, and The Wedding Gift she was glad when Helen suggested she take the comfortable, wing-back chair beside the fire. By now the room had erupted with girls' voices, their chatter and laughter. Hope felt greatly touched by the affection Carol's lovely young friends bestowed upon her. And Carol, Hope noticed gladly, responded in a most gracious, spontaneous manner. Tonight, glowing with happiness, she looked not much older than Judy. INI ot many minutes passed until Helen started some fun games. Hope, trying to concentrate, could not keep from glancing from Carol 'to Judy. Was Judy all right? At the moment Judy appeared to be enjoying herself, and Hope relaxed somewhat until it was time for Carol to unwrap her gifts. Judy, it seemed to Hope, sat a bit too far forward on her chair, looking, Hope thought, as if she were about ready to jump up for some relay race. In her excitement for Carol, Judy appeared to have forgotten herself entirely. Carol opened her gifts slowly, thanking each girl with such heartfelt words, Hope felt certain the girls were touched and delighted in Carol's sincerity. Her friends had lovingly showered her with useful gifts. When Carol reached for Judy's gift, the biggest and most conspicuous, Hope turned her shoulders away from the fire, knowing that she had never been more tense, not even in a dentist's chair. Oh, dear, Hope thought, wishing the flames 

113 February 1968

 would die down, let it be all right! Judy, her eyes fastened on Carol's hands, sat straight and composed, first crossing, then uncrossing her feet, unaware of anyone else in the room, conscious only of Carol's fingers untying the bow. The two sisters' eyes met before the gift was yet unwrapped, and the instant of endearment that passed between them, though not a word was spoken, brightened the whole room. _ Carol's hands had no more than touched the gift inside, lifting it into view, when she drew in her breath, "Oh, Judy," she began, then her voice broke, leaving her speechless. Her eyes misted as she looked at her younger sister. At once she regained her composure and addressed Judy. "Oh, Judy, our lamp. You gave me our lamp." Hope regained her poise. Indeed, there it was, the familiar night stand lamp, but dressed now in a crisp, new shade. No one in the room would guess what the lamp meant to Carol, or what Judy had really given to her older sister. Not unless they sensed the sisterly affection that passed silently between the two girls. "It's not much," Judy explained huskily. "I thought you might like part of our room to take with you." Part of the room, Hope thought, with emotion, she's giving her part of her heart. Above the crackling flames and the girls' voices, Hope's ears seemed to hear her daughters' voices down through the years. "Last one in bed turns off the light." It did not surprise Hope that Judy had thought of such an idea, but what Hope marveled at, was that she would have the courage to carry the idea through. "Oh, infant," Carol said now to Judy, "every night I reach up to turn off the light, [ll be silently saying goodnight to you." "I know," Judy said happily, scooting across the room to sit on the floor beside Carol, "that's what I thought." Judy sat crosslegged, close to Carol, folding the ribbons and _ papers as Carol continued to unwrap her gifts. She moved, Hope thought, because she got Carol's message. Carol wanted Judy at her side, to share her joy. Hope smiled, then, her first relaxed smile in several days, for she felt certain now beyond all doubt that Carol would never be very far away from Judy vq "Dear Grandma, MOTHER'S GRACIOUS LITTLE GRANDDAUGHTER Iris W. Schow Told she's forgotten to say, ''Thanks," She gravely wrote to square it: Thank you for the hat. I hardly ever wear it."'. Ever!