[Vol55 | February 1968 | Page 116 | Fiction | The Rock-Strewn Road Carolyn | L. Wright]
Susan snapped back to attention at the instructor's words as she heard him begin the assignment.

"To bring you more in this period of time, your term paper will be a biography. I want you to get to know how a person who lived in that time period felt, what he thought. I don't want one of those he-was-born-here-and-died-there kind of biographies. The individual may be anyone you choose, famous or not. Here is the catch. Your main source must be something the individual wrote."

A chorus of moans arose.

"It isn't as hard as you may think. For famous people, there are often published autobiographies, collections of letters, and so forth. For many others, there are journals, diaries, that kind of thing."

"Diary," Susan thought. "Great-grandmother Carter."

The bell rang. Susan gathered up her books and rushed out. Tammy caught up with her and matched her quick steps.

"Sue, what have your parents decided about this fall?" she asked.

Susan frowned as the same problem again captured her attention. "Oh, they won't decide. It's up to me."

"Whoopee! Then it's all set. We're off to State. Two years at dear, little, City College, but watch out State, here we come."

Tammy noticed Susan wasn't joining in her enthusiasm. "Hey, what's wrong? You don't seem very happy for someone who gets to go to State. We are going to State, aren't we?"

"I didn't say I could go to State," Susan replied glumly. "I just said my parents were leaving it to me to decide."

"That's the same thing, isn't it? You want to go to State. You make the decision. You choose State. Seems pretty simple to me."

"Well, it isn't, Tammy. I've got to go to biology now. I'll see you tomorrow." Sue left her friend very bewildered.

Susan hardly heard a word the biology professor said. Tammy just didn't understand. Of course it was impossible just completely to ignore her parents' wishes. For one thing, they were probably right. She could take any of a wide variety of classes, she would be with other members of the Church, the Brigham Young University campus seemed so beautiful from the brochures, she would get to travel almost halfway across the country, see new places, meet new people, broaden her horizons.

That was the trouble—new places, new people. She wouldn't know anyone. The campus was so big she would probably get lost. The same feeling of panic again threatened to overwhelm her. She would have to decide soon. Deadlines for applications were coming nearer.

"It just isn't fair to make me decide," she thought. "It would be much easier to go to State. Tammy could be my roommate. If I got lost, at least I'd be lost with someone, and not all by myself. I guess I just don't have much pioneer spirit. Wouldn't Great-grandmother Carter be ashamed of me!"

"Hi, Mom." Susan said, putting her books on the table. "Mr. Johnston wants us to write a biography of somebody, and we have to use something she wrote. Don't we have a diary that Great-grandmother Carter kept?"

"Yes, Susie. It's so old, though, please be very careful."

"I will, Mom. I'll start right after dinner."

"Susie, have you thought any more about which school? Dad and I . . ."

"I know, Mom, but I just can't decide. I'll probably be signing up at City College again."

"City College is good, or your father wouldn't be teaching there, but we are convinced you need to learn to meet people. You've known almost everyone at City College since you were in the first grade. We'd like you to be around other young people of the Church. That has been one thing I haven't liked about living in the branch. There just aren't any young people for you to be with."

"Yes, Mom, but I just can't face the idea of not knowing anyone. If I could just stay here and never have to go anywhere I'd be perfectly happy."

Susan hurried through her chores to get to work on her assignment. She was really looking forward to it. She had heard many stories about Emmalou Putney Carter. Susan always pictured her as holding off a band of Indians while holding a baby on her hip. She carefully unwrapped the old volume, and almost reverently opened it. Suddenly she saw a face, the face of a young girl. In one corner of the drawing was the inscription "Emmalou Putney, sixteen years." Susan had seen several old photographs of a sweet, little old lady with white hair piled high on top of her head, and very merry eyes. But this was a different person. A serious girl, shy looking, and . . . and . . . timid.

Susan began to read. She quickly skimmed the pages until one entry caught her eye.

"April 23, 1844. Papa met some gentlemen today and invited them to supper. They called themselves elders and talked about a new Church. They spoke of things in a way that made them seem so natural. It was very strange. Grandfather said he didn't think there was a word of truth in it, but Papa was very impressed.