[Vol55 | February 1968 | Page 81 | Article | Solace Alda | L. Brown]
2 Solace Alda L. Brown For I have seen the wanton breath of spring Lure a lifeless tendril from the earth And guide its tangled fingers to the sun.... From darkest embryonic pulse New life was born! Wounded.... I listened close To hear the limpid song of thrush! Soft cadence now that once was stilled! Symphony... Where silence long had kept Its muted sentinel of death! Yet, surely, there was song.... And hope was there Waiting as a molten ember waits For one quick spark To kindle and flare again And burst to buoyant flame! Lift up your heart! Reach high! God heals the anguished hour Of grieving.... The Cover: Desert Blossoms Near Lynndyl, Utah Transparency by Dorothy J. Roberts Lithographed in full color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: Light and Shadow, Caineville, Utah Photograph by Willard Luce Art Layout: Dick Scopes Illustrations: Mary Scopes

From Near and Far I have so enjoyed the two-part article (July and August 1967) "Family Vacations Can Be Fun," by Lillian Y. Bradshaw. Our family have dreamed of just such a trip we have six children also. My husband teaches school and we all have studied the geography and history of the United States, and we have, also, a great interest in the history of the Church. Recently I was asked by a Sunday School teacher to help with the lesson on the Relief Society's role in the Welfare Program how fortunate for me to find the article on this subject by President Belle S. Spafford in the August Magazine "The Role of Relief Society in the Welfare Program." Iona S. Hall Roy, Utah Recently I received a beautiful orchid which I wore only an hour that evening. During that week end I took ill, and my orchid remained in the refrigerator. Upon beginning the new week, I immediately recalled Elsie Sim Hansen's story "Orchids in the Kitchen" (August 1967). I knew the feelings that she portrayed. I was grateful that the article was published when it was a month later would have been too late, and I would not have known what to do I wore my orchid in the kitchen. Thaya E. Davis Redondo Beach, California The Magazine is a great tool in this faraway country not only in furthering the Relief Society work, but in preaching the gospel as well. Many friends have been made for the Church through the efforts of those who make it available. Nonmembers in some areas have asked to hear more about the Church that publishes such a worthwhile Magazine. Some of the missionaries have even taken copies and used them as a door approach and have made fine contacts in this way. Eleanor A. Badger Supervisor South African Mission Relief Society Hazel M. Thomson has written an excellent story in a beautiful way (serial "The Golden Chain," concluded in September 1967). The story introduced many gospel principles and stirred my emotions in many ways. It was touching to read how Nora was brought into the Church. I could almost feel every emotion of Nora's, as she waited for Jed to give a sign of how he felt regarding her. I felt elated when she decided on her own to be baptized, and, finally, to go through the temple. Mrs. Arvin Haskell Kimberly, Idaho What a marvelous and inspired job is being done in the editing of our remarkable Magazine, small in size, but immense in value. When I read "The Outsider" by Iris W. Schow (April 1967), it brought tears of delight. It is a story of my beloved little home town. I remember the real name of each character Sister Schow portrays in such a delightful way, can picture the field of daisies, remember well the lovely Mrs. Maysprite, even the grave where the bluff looks down the canyon. This will have a new meaning when I visit that cemetery spot again. May J. Hill Richmond, Utah I think the Relief Society Magazine is wonderfully compiled and I look forward to receiving it every month. It caters to my every mood. The lessons are truly a spiritual uplift. Mrs. Jessie G. Lockwood Bundaberg, Queensland, Australia A very special "thank you" for mailing me The Relief Society Magazines, which I thoroughly enjoy reading. I feel that the stories have a special message for us, and the photographs are very beautiful. It is a joy to read of our sisters overseas and the wonderful work they do. Mrs. Mary Cosgrove Glasgow, Scotland 148 Homemaking—Making Every Room a Library—An Invitation to Learning Celestia J. Taylor oper oe oy Go! Mother Eve, A Worthy Exemplar ' i {S Or Se mo elellelarevereCi [Address Delivered at the Stake Board Session, Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 28, 1967] =» I have been greatly impressed by the presentation we have just seen. [""A Call to Benevolence," by Luacine C. Fox] I congratulate Sister Fox on the high quality of the work she does. I was particularly interested in this matter of attitude. About a quarter of a century ago Sister Romney and I moved into a ward in which they were just beginning to build a meetinghouse. The size of the contribution the bishop thought I ought to contribute rather staggered me. I thought it was at least twice as much as he should have asked. However, I had just been called to a rather high Church position, so I couldn't very well tell him where to go. Therefore, I said, "Well, I will pay it, Bishop, but I will have to pay it in installments because I don't have the money.": And so I began to pay. And I when, as is my habit, I was reading The Book of Mormon, Elder Marion G. Romney of the Council of the Twelve paid and paid until I was down to about the last three payments, and came to the scripture which said:. If aman... Giveth a gift... Grudgingly; wherefore it is counted unto him the same as if he had retained the gift; wherefore he is counted evil before God. (Moroni 7:8.) This shocked me because I was out about a thousand dollars. Well, I went on and paid the three installments I had promised to pay, and then I paid several more installments to convince the Lord that I had done it with the right attitude. By extending to me the invitation to speak to you at this time, the Relief Society Presidency has conferred upon me a great honor. And, they have burdened me with a great responsibility. They did not definitively state what they wanted me to talk about. They said anything that would be good for all women, in the Church and out. Not knowing what you want, I selected a theme that I like. I thought there was no need for all of us to be disappointed. Now, I have decided to try to discharge this responsibility by calling your attention to the five great character traits of Mother Eve, as they are revealed in the scriptures. We all know, of course, that she was the first mortal woman, the mother of the human race. I hope that in the next few moments I can persuade you that she was a great and noble woman who set an example in righteous living worthy of emulation not only by members of Relief Society but by all other women.