[Vol55 | February 1968 | Page 124 | General Feature | Gifts of the Hands and the Heart Martha | Ellen Chadwick]
[Gifts of the Hands and the Heart Martha Ellen Chadwick]

""There's something lacking in some people, and you can't see from the outside that this important thing is missing; but still the something that isn't there is more necessary than eyes, or legs or arms. And I think that if a man is born without it, he can't develop it any more than he could grow a second arm if he had been born with only one." I stood undecided about what argument to use next to save that pie for our family. It would only be broken and ruined when it was spooned into the cracked soup tureen. Papa got up and put the blue pan, tied into the dish towel, in my hand. "Every day we can thank God that we were born with this special something inside us. We can give instead of needing to accept." "Papa," I began, still puzzled, 'what is this thing?" "No one has a name for it," Papa said. "In my own mind I call it drive." "Run along, dear," Mama urged me. "I don't want the pie to get cold." I know all about casseroles—family casseroles, party casseroles, church dinner casseroles. Being a housewife on a budget, I have perfected half a hundred. But every time I make a donation to anyone, I remember the blue pan and the love and good feeling that Mama baked into every hot dish. 123 * oy a xf « Pan, age ROL IN A Se ARE ARN SB BEEN MONE » MANY TALENTS—MANY FRIENDS Mabel Varley Christensen, San Luis Stake, Sanford, Colorado, has a multitude of talents and hobbies. During one Christmas season she made 150 pounds of candy for friends and relatives. She raises African violets, creates her own designs for beautiful pieced and appliquéd quilts. Crocheting, embroidering, decorative pillows, and aprons are products of her skillful hands. She is an expert seamstress and for many years did custom sewing, drafting and cutting her own patterns for dresses, coats, and suits. She has made over 1500 aprons. She has always found time for Church activity, and has held ward and stake positions in all auxiliaries of the Church. For more than forty years she has served as a visiting teacher. Sister Christensen has brought much happiness to her family, consisting of her husband of fifty-two years, five sons, twenty-two grandchildren, and fourteen greatgrandchildren. Much of her time is taken up presently with genealogy work, which she lists among her greatest accomplishments.