The Relief Society Magazine - February 1968, Vol. 55, No. 2

Solace Alda L. Brown For I have seen the wanton breath of spring Lure a lifeless tendril from the earth And guide its tangled fingers to the sun.... From darkest embryonic pulse New life was born! Wounded.... I listened close To hear the limpid song of thrush! Soft cadence now that once was stilled! Symphony... Where silence long had kept Its muted sentinel of death! Yet, surely, there was song.... And hope was there Waiting as a molten ember waits For one quick spark To kindle and flare again And burst to buoyant flame! Lift up your heart! Reach high! God heals the anguished hour Of grieving....

The Cover: Desert Blossoms Near Lynndyl, Utah Transparency by Dorothy J. Roberts Lithographed in full color by Deseret News Press

Frontispiece: Light and Shadow, Caineville, Utah Photograph by Willard Luce

Art Layout: Dick Scopes

Illustrations: Mary Scopes

From Near and Far

I have so enjoyed the two-part article (July and August 1967) "Family Vacations Can Be Fun," by Lillian Y. Bradshaw. Our family have dreamed of just such a trip we have six children also. My husband teaches school and we all have studied the geography and history of the United States, and we have, also, a great interest in the history of the Church. Recently I was asked by a Sunday School teacher to help with the lesson on the Relief Society's role in the Welfare Program how fortunate for me to find the article on this subject by President Belle S. Spafford in the August Magazine "The Role of Relief Society in the Welfare Program."

Iona S. Hall Roy, Utah

Recently I received a beautiful orchid which I wore only an hour that evening. During that week end I took ill, and my orchid remained in the refrigerator. Upon beginning the new week, I immediately recalled Elsie Sim Hansen's story "Orchids in the Kitchen" (August 1967). I knew the feelings that she portrayed. I was grateful that the article was published when it was a month later would have been too late, and I would not have known what to do I wore my orchid in the kitchen.

Thaya E. Davis Redondo Beach, California

The Magazine is a great tool in this faraway country not only in furthering the Relief Society work, but in preaching the gospel as well. Many friends have been made for the Church through the efforts of those who make it available. Nonmembers in some areas have asked to hear more about the Church that publishes such a worthwhile Magazine. Some of the missionaries have even taken copies and used them as a door approach and have made fine contacts in this way.

Eleanor A. Badger Supervisor South African Mission Relief Society

Hazel M. Thomson has written an excellent story in a beautiful way (serial "The Golden Chain," concluded in September 1967). The story introduced many gospel principles and stirred my emotions in many ways. It was touching to read how Nora was brought into the Church. I could almost feel every emotion of Nora's, as she waited for Jed to give a sign of how he felt regarding her. I felt elated when she decided on her own to be baptized, and, finally, to go through the temple.

Mrs. Arvin Haskell Kimberly, Idaho

What a marvelous and inspired job is being done in the editing of our remarkable Magazine, small in size, but immense in value. When I read "The Outsider" by Iris W. Schow (April 1967), it brought tears of delight. It is a story of my beloved little home town. I remember the real name of each character Sister Schow portrays in such a delightful way, can picture the field of daisies, remember well the lovely Mrs. Maysprite, even the grave where the bluff looks down the canyon. This will have a new meaning when I visit that cemetery spot again.

May J. Hill Richmond, Utah

I think the Relief Society Magazine is wonderfully compiled and I look forward to receiving it every month. It caters to my every mood. The lessons are truly a spiritual uplift.

Mrs. Jessie G. Lockwood Bundaberg, Queensland, Australia

A very special "thank you" for mailing me The Relief Society Magazines, which I thoroughly enjoy reading. I feel that the stories have a special message for us, and the photographs are very beautiful. It is a joy to read of our sisters overseas and the wonderful work they do.

Mrs. Mary Cosgrove Glasgow, Scotland

82

The Relief Society Magazine

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1968 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.