[Vol54 | January 1967 | Page 37 | Special Feature | Fight Birth Defects Join the March of Dimes George | P. Voss]
each year in this country need this special kind of love. They need expert medical care that can improve—and sometimes completely correct—almost eighty per cent of the serious conditions caused by birth defects. This is the kind of care available at more than seventy-five March of Dimes Birth Defects Centers throughout the United States. Early diagnosis and proper treatment are given—tender care for those who need it most. The child born less than perfect can be helped across the barriers of disability to find a full, productive life. Your March of Dimes contribution helps finance the Birth Defects Centers. You can help to care for the children who need your consideration and your remembrance. Your help is a measure of your love.

Fight Birth Defects — Join the March of Dimes BEYOND THESE TEARS Mabel Jones Gabbott When I look back, let me remember The lovely things and beautiful we knew: The day we met, the ever-burning ember Of our love, the happy times we threw Cares to the wind and laughed together, The hours we shared each other's heart.... Remembering thus, it will not matter whether One day or two or more keep us apart; For we will know love lasts beyond these years, Beyond these lonely nights, beyond these tears. 37 Christmas Begins With a Tree j w After the last string of children had skipped out into the cloak hall, gathering boots and mittens on the final strains of "Jolly Old Saint Nicolas," and the tinsel and nutshells and ribbon from the party had been swept into the baskets, everything seemed to be desperately quiet. As Miss Gold fumbled into her hat and coat, she felt tears stinging her eyes. She imagined these children going to their homes and she ached to follow them. But she saw herself cramped in her musty apartment correcting notebooks —hboth from her own classes and from the classes of Miss Pool who had been ill for so many days. More at Christmas than at other times, Miss Gold reflected, life had seemed to pass her by. A boy she once loved had been killed in an automobile accident. Through the years no one else had seemed to want her for his wife. Last year her mother had died, joining her father, who had passed away many years before. Miss Gold pulled on her gloves and jostled the stacks of papers under her arms. If only she had 38 Marilyn McMeen Miller ies not promised Roberta Pool she would help her with the tedious notebooks. It seemed an extra burden just when her heart should be light and beating in time with "Jingle Bells" and "Deck the Halls With Boughs of Holly.". From the second story window of her apartment, Miss Gold saw the lights of the city sparkling far off over the hill. She stamped off her galoshes, turned up the radiator, and rubbed her hands. There was surely some way to make Christmas possible to bear this year. Finding it was the problem. She might take in a show—she might dine at the Lantern, her favorite place to eat. But then she was tired of always going alone. There was her new ward. She recalled they were planning some kind of MIA party. But there were no single people her age. She was almost forty. No one was really interested in a womout schoolteacher. She shuddered to realize that the years had crept up on her this way. She brushed a shock of hair from her eyes and felt the dry skin of her forehead. Suddenly, her bones felt weak and tired, and she had tears in her eyes again. And the little apartment with not a Christmas light or decorated sprig in it, whirled in her consciousness. There must be some way she could begin! Where did other lonely people begin? There was at least one thing she could do. She could at least get a tree— even a little tree like the one her class had given to the needy family. Even if only for herself, it would help.
