10 EDITORIAL Social Problems in Palestine People in the civilized world will generally regret the outbreak in Palestine. Aimed particularly at the Jews, it has caused the death and injury of many of that race. All the modern science that can be brought to the aid of the Arabs, as well as all the appropriations for education given by the Zionists' organization, will be of small value unless something can be done to teach the people dwelling in that land to be tolerant one towards another. The streets of most oriental cities are narrow; people who dwell in them cannot walk up and down without rubbing against each other; yet their ideas are as far apart as the north pole from the south pole. Any one who has ever visited that country must be aware of these deep-seated antagonisms, A guide who was a Christian Arab, having been taught the religion of the 'Quaker by his father, had spent enough time in New York to learn the English language. One morning, when his party was leaving Jerusalem to go to Nazareth, he apologized because he wore the fez or tarboosh, which is the prevalent style of hat in that country. Turning to his party, he said, "I have a Panama hat that I brought from New York, and which I should very much like to wear on such a day as this; but if I went among the Arabs with it they would take me for a Jew and probably kil  me. If I wear my tarboosh they will think I am Mohammedan, and that probably will protect my life." The people belonging to the Zionist movement have built a Jewish university on Mount Scopus, which is a part of the Mount of Olives. When it was dedicated, April 1, 1925, the British government sent Lord Balfour, one of their most talented speakers, to make an address. So bitter was the feeling of the Arabs towards him that he had to be taken to the coast under special guard to embark for home.; The Arabs hold their destiny in their hands. If they are determined to stir up strife and massacre and kill the Jew, who has knowledge and material wealth that can be used to redeem the land and bring back in a measure its former glory, then the hour of their redemption will be delayed. It is incumbent, also, upon the Jews to be tolerant to those who are at present living in that land and who, like themselves, are the children of Abraham. It is of little avail for the Jews to seek the Wailing Wall and plead with the Lord for the re-establishment of their people as a nation in the Land of Promise if they are part and party to the stirring up of strife, and not willing to do everything in their power to bring about harmony and establish good will. Another matter to be regretted is that the small body of Christians living in that country do not always use their good offices to maintain an attitude of good will between Arabs and Jews. As followers of the meek and lowly Nazarene, they should be anxious to do all they can to induce the Arabs, with whom they have influence, to be law-abiding and tolerant, that the hour may not be far off when that land, which gave birth to the Savior, and in which he died that all men might be saved, shall cease to be a hiss and a by-word from the standpoint of modern progress and Christian ethics. Vacation Camps in Idaho Miss Marion Hepworth has demonstrated her vision. Vacation Camps in the State of Idaho have become a real institution. There women gather and are brought into contact with an educational program suited to their particular needs. To make this program possible, the most attractive vacation resorts in the State have been selected for the encampment, where women from five or six! Counties assemble. At the camps a three-fold program is carried on, emphasizing information, recreation, and inspiration. The theme this summer has centered around the child. Illustrative of the idea, on Tuesday, July 30, at Mack's Inn, Miss Marjorie Eastman gave a talk and demonstration on children's garments for health and play. The recreation was under the EDITORIALS 533 leadership of Mrs. Eldon Sessions; the music, which has been featured at the camps for two sessions, was under the direction of Mr. T. R. Neilson of the Southern Branch of the University of Idaho. On the first evening, Governor Baldridge of Idaho made an address, also David O. McKay of Salt Lake City. The music deserves special mention; it was the best sort of demonstration of the theme Mr. Neilson was presenting, ?Music in the Home." It consisted of an all-Neilson quintette, the performers transferring with perfect ease from one instrument to another. Mrs. Neilson is the accompanist, ordinarily two of the sons play the violin, while the father and the eldest son play the clarinet. Sometimes they resolve themselves into a saxophone quartet consisting of father and three sons with the mother at the piano. This orchestra accompanies the women as they sing, under Mr. Neilson's leadership, their State songs and the popular airs of America. On these programs for two seasons the Relief Society has been represented. Last season Miss Alice L. Reynolds of the General Board took part on the program at Fish Haven and Lava Hot Springs. This summer the General Board of the Relief Society has been represented at four camps?Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter appeared on the program at Fish Haven and Lava Springs, and Miss Alice L. Reynolds at Starkey and Mack's Inn. Miss Reynolds subject both years was Books that pay Interest and Reading for Children. Mrs. Baxter spoke on Character Training in the Home, and The Poise of the Mother in the House. The conception is unique, amply deserving the popular support that it is receiving. Beyond question, it carries a message from the Agricultural College and University of Idaho into the homes of the State?the real purpose of an Extension Division. Miss Marion Hepworth, State Home Demonstrator, with her assistants in the counties, is to be congratulated on the impressive program she has assembled, and the excellent piece of educational work she is putting over. Mrs. Alveretta S. Engar is the author of the poem "Recompense," which appeared in the Relief Society Magazine, September, 1929, page 483. It is regretted that her name did not appear with the poem, Ed's Delusion By Minnie I. Hodapp "A little wine once in a while doesn't hurt me," said Ed Hale in low, persuasive tone to his sweetheart Retta Lee. "Just so a man can keep his head and not let drink get the better of him, a little wine once in a while doesn't matter." Ed smiled as though he felt quite sure of proving his point, but a look of pained sadness crept into the deep brown eyes of unconvinced Retta. "How long since you began tasting a little wine now and then, Ed?" ? Ed hesitated, then replied falteringly, "Oh, quite a while ago?say two or three years ago." Retta looked amazed, stunned. "I always know when to quit, Retta. I've never-missed a class recitation or lost a practice-case over tasting a little wine once in a while. I always know when I've had enough. It pays to be on one's guard, you know, as the directors at the medical college are quite exacting with the students." Retta felt that this confession, unpleasant as it was, revealed Ed's downright integrity. His non-denial of his indulgence was more fascinating than disgusting. She wished to draw out his story. "Why did you start tasting wine, Ed?" "Why? Partly due to my work. The sight of so much pain and suffering began to unnerve me. I thought I needed a stimulant. So once in a while, say every six weeks or thereabout, I began taking a little wine." Retta's answer was a low moan, tearless, yet full of anguish. Ed's heart smote him as he saw how his secret disturbed her. "Retta my dear," his voice dropped to a soothing apology, "I should not alarm you in this way. You've been brought up to look at these things seriously, and in the main you are right." "Yes," came faintly from Retta. She was too much overborne by emotion to take up further argument. Turning to the table she looked again at the peerless white roses Ed had given her that day. The girl trembled lest she might find a canker worm feasting amid their satin-snow petals. "Oh, Ed," she moaned. "What is it Retta?" "I thought you were far, far too wise for anything like this." "Girlie, a little wine once in a while," he began pleadingly, then stopped abruptly for Retta was paler than the flower in the vase on the table. A flyte-note from the band-concert in the neighboring park ED'S DELUSION 535 broke into the room. It summoned them to the park. As they rode in Ed's car, it took but a few minutes. "Let's mingle with the crowd," said Retta observing that the program was well advanced. They soon joined some friends on a grassy bank toward the edge of the throng. Darting in and out among the trees behind them, they espied a lone youth. Ed peered into the grove, then said, "Why, it's Herman skipping to and fro like a dancing shadow. He has a bunch of handbills." "Hey, Herman! Bring me one," called Ed. The youth hastened forward and handed Ed a bill. Retta watched the young man as he moved lithely back among the trees. '"What's the matter with his right hand," she asked Ed. "I've never found out except that it is useless. Poor Herman! He never did play basketball in high school on account of his handicap, but he did a lot of other things." Retta began reading the bill by way of changing the subject. Her sympathy was acute, and the retiring behavior of Herman haunted her. The advertisement was concerning an excursion to Ellen Isle on June twentieth. "Shall we go?" asked Ed. "I just can't refuse," declared Retta. "Mother will leave for the coast on the nineteenth and I'll have to take care of little Bob. Maybe I'll coax him to stay with Aunt Louise that day." "Or you may take him along. A child usually delights in a boat ride." "That's just it! He might become too venturesome. I don't want to feel worried about him. It would spoil the outing." "Well, just leave him with Aunt Louise," said Ed. "I don't want that day to be marred for you by a single worry, however slight." Retta beamed her approval of these considerate words: Ed gave her hand a little squeeze and said, "We'll hire a nice, new boat and have a capital time on the water." "And Tl pack a lunch in mother's big picnic basket. For tis a fact, I'd rather spend a day at Ellen Isle than at any summer resort you can name." So the lovers arranged their perfect day. Never had Retta seen Ed happier and handsomer than when he helped her into the boat on Lowell River on the morning of the excursion. The glassy water wound smoothly down toward Ellen Isle, six silvery miles away. It mirrored the mountains and trees. A perfumed breeze rustled among the wild roses along either bank, Ten thousand blossoms seemed to vie with one an-  other 'neath the blithe June sky. The-sight moved Retta to fondest admiration and she recited for Ed: "Yon blithely smiling wild rose hedge Ablooming by the water's edge So innocent and free! With silken petals pink and fair Aflutter on the balmy air In guileless rivalry!" In snatching for a spray of low-bending blossoms along the edge of the stream, Ed almost upset the boat. "Sit down," shrieked Retta, as he danced a jig on the floor of their little craft., Placing the flowers in Retta's lap he said, "Lady fair, I really must Either poetize or bust." As they glided past the silent, sunny fields the cadence of a meadow lark came now and then, like a ripple of purest joy to their love-enchanted hearts. By and by Ed ceased to row, folded his arms and gazed into the deep, silent current that flowed on and on so peacefully. Gradually the boat neared the shore, and Retta, enraptured, beheld the grassy knolls and fragrant bowers of Ellen Isle. At the mooring Retta was somewhat surprised to meet the young man whom she had noticed dancing in the shadows on the eve of the band concert. He was on duty here and he locked the boat with willing alacrity. Retta watched him closely. To her mind, Herman seemed more skillful with his one useful hand than some persons are with both. "I'm edified in studying his case,' remarked Retta as they turned toward an inviting knoll. "Really?" said Ed with a slightly forced laugh. Ed spent the forenoon fishing and had unusual fisherman's luck. At noon he built a small campfire and arranged the fry. Meanwhile Retta spread out their luncheon in a grassy nook close by. "I believe I'll go and fetch a pail of water from the westside spring before we eat," said Ed. "I won't be gone many minutes." ' He reached the springs and watched the cold, pure water bubbling from the quicksand. He filled his bucket and stooped down to pick some watercress when a hearty-sounding voice arrested his ear. "Hello, Ed, old timer!" It was Newel Simons who spoke, "Why, hello, old pal," responded Ed, ED'S DELUSION 537 "Here's something better than water, Ed," began Newel; then, noticing Ed's reluctance he went on, "Come on, old timer. You're off duty today. Make it a real holiday." Although the sparkling flask looked deliciously tempting to Ed, he hesitated and turned with the bucket of water to go back to Retta. "Here, here!' called Newel holding out the flask entreatingly. Ed put down the bucket and remarked almost in the language of the ancient Rip Van Winkle, 'This drink won't count." He sat down on the bank beside Newel and the two friends began a game of mumble-peg in the damp soil. Retta waited half an hour, but Ed did not appear. Ten anxious moments were added to the half hour. Still no Ed in sight. She stirred up the little campfire to keep the fish warm. She walked forth and back under the arbor. Growing restless, she climbed a tree for diversion. "I'll just await him here, and he'll wonder what's become of me." When she came down from the tree she was much relieved to see Mrs. Mecham coming toward her, crocheting as she walked. Retta welcomed her and she prolonged her visit as much as possible. Mrs. Mecham was glad of the change, as she wished not to disturb baby Robert's nap by chattering over him. Not until the child's own voice gave the signal of awakening did she retrace her footsteps toward him. It was half past two o'clock when Retta started toward the spring to find Ed. As she neared the spot two men from under the trees lifted their boisterous voices in greeting. The girl's quick glance fell upon four empty wine flasks piled against the tree. The loquacious, unsteady voices of the two friends made her instantly aware of what had taken place. Angered and disappointed, Retta turned back. She would go and pack the untouched luncheon into the basket. (What a patient Griselda she had been!) She hastened her steps, but alas a hungry dog had watched his chance, and during her absence, had made a feast of the meal, leaving not a morsel. At sight of the dog's muddy footprints on her dainty table linen, Retta sat down and wept. A far-off peal of thunder caused her to look up. "Oh, I hope a storm isn't brewing! How on earth will we get home? Ed is in no condition to handle the oars." She placed the tablecloth and forks and spoons in the basket, then hastened down to the boat at the river's edge. "You seem to be troubled about something. May I help you?" asked the alert, dark-eyed young man who had charge of the boats.  "Yes," answered Retta in low tone. I need help. Someone must help me and so I?ll turn to you. "Will you please go with me to the spring and help me induce Ed Hale to come down and get into the boat. Do hurry! I want to get him away from here before too many of his friends find out. He's been drinking wine and more wine and more wine ?Oh, I can't tell you all!" "I understand," answered Herman. "Say no more about it." By skillful maneuvering Retta and Herman enticed Ed to walk between them down toward the mooring. Here Herman took a robe and a cushion and made a bed in the floor of the boat. Little by little, Retta persuaded Ed to get into the boat and lie down for a nap. This done she seated herself in one end of the boat and took an oar. Herman unlocked the boat and pushed out into the middle of the stream, meanwhile assuring Retta that she would reach home before many of her friends found out Ed's folly. Hide it she would for her own sake and Ed's! "You manage the boat so well," said Retta to Herman. "Of course I try to do the best I can, Miss Lee," answered the young man; "but I have my limitation," glancing down at his helpless right hand. Retta's eyes spoke truest sympathy as she replied, "You are surely patient and brave through it all. May I ask the cause of your affliction?" "T cannot explain," said Herman, "without involving a friend who has been very good to me all his life. It was his mistake, and for the sake of his good name, I hold it a secret." "That's hard to do, isn't it?" asked Retta. "Not so hard," answered Herman, ''when one bears in mind that a weak character is oftentimes more dangerous than a wicked one."; "Oh? You don't mean to say that?" "Yes, Miss Lee, I mean exactly that. One doesn't trust a wicked man, but it is easy to forgive the weakling and trust him again and again." "I suppose you are right," mused Retta sadly. In that same interval a mourning dove uttered its sweet and plaintive cry from the river bank. Its song almost broke Retta's heart. Even the wild rose hedges seemed unsmiling and drooping and stricken with blight. When the boat finally landed, Ed was able to get out and walk toward home. "Goodbye, Retta,"' he said sadly. "Goodbye, Ed." There were tears in Retta's eyes, for she felt that this was indeed the last goodbye. She was not surprised to receive next morning this message from Ed: ED'S DELUSION 539 "T know I acted the part of a contemptible fool, Retta. I don't ask you to forgive me this time. Confound it all! What made me taste that wine? Words cannot express the disgust I feel toward myself, and I know full well that I've made myself forever odious in your sight." To this letter Retta made no reply. Words failed her and her emotions were too conflicting to be trustworthy. Besides, Ed was aware of his over-powering appetite, his pathetic infirmity of will. Oh, but wasn't he paying in regret, remorse, chagrin and self torture? Weeks passed. No word from Retta to Ed. No further message from Ed to Retta. Neither made the least attempt to break silence. Secretly Ed was very grateful to Retta for having kept his folly hidden. It gave him a better standing in the neighborhood. Folks had confidence in him still. Although he had one more year to complete his course at the medical college, his near and dear friends would occasionally call for his assistance in case of emergency. He dressed Edwin Brown's hand when his fingers were crushed in the pulley. He bandaged Jay Hendrick's sprained ankle and helped to set Gene Francom's leg. And it was with a heart throb of pride that Retta heard these things related. "Dear Ed! He may win out yet," she told herself. Naturally Ed avoided Herman. It annoyed him to feel that this simple Swiss immigrant boy had shown himself Ed's superior in the eyes of Retta. Ed would not willingly meet Herman again. No; not under the most favorable conditions. It happened one evening when Ed called to leave a book at the home of a soldier who had lost his eyesight in the late World War, he found Herman there reading to him. "Go right on, Herman," requested Ed, seeing him pause as if to lay aside the book. So he continued the lesson. It was a French text and Herman translated it phrase by phrase and sentence by sentence. When the lesson was finished, Herman, much to Ed's relief, said goodbye and left the two friends alone. "How often does he help you?" "An hour each evening." "You're fortunate," answered Ed. "Herman knows his Latin, too, and that thoroughly." "But I understand he has a physical defect," remarked the blind student. "His right hand, I believe.": "Yes, through an accident. I don't know the details; but if I had to change places with Herman I'm afraid I should curse the fate that heaped upon me so cruel a handicap." "Oh, there are worse things," replied the blind student, "Forgive me, friend," said Ed feelingly. "I spoke with considerable warmth. But Herman's case seems to haunt me for  some reason. Perhaps it's because I've seen his struggles?always fitting himself into a niche for service?elevator boy, janitor, usher, guide, assistant night clerk. And he has real ability could he but rise to a particular calling wherein his handicap need not figure." The phone rang. A voice of frenzied alarm cried:.. "Ts this you, Ed?" "Yes, Retta. What's wanted?" "Oh, Ed, come! It's my little brother. He's eaten a wild parsnip and is in a convulsion." Ed was soon in the Lee home beside Retta working over little Bob. "If he should die," cried Retta, "how would I tell mother? She left him in my care?she left him in my care." Ed worked rapidly. His calm presence lent strength to Retta. Although an agonizing period to her, within fifteen minutes little Bobbie was relieved and Ed said that he was out of imminent danger. Retta's joy knew no bounds. "I want to hold him, Ed." So Ed lifted the little boy from the bed and placed him tenderly in Retta's arms. What a picture of gratitude she was as she sat beaming upon Ed while she nestled little brother close. "Don't leave yet," said Retta. I shan't feel safe about him with you gone." This entreaty fell like sweetest music upon the ears of Ed, and a wave of protective tenderness surged through his heart. "I'll stay with you until you feel entirely at ease about him," said Ed. Ed did not leave until past midnight and he promised to call again first thing in the morning. The forenoon visit was thrillingly happy. Little Bobbie was up and playing marbles in the front yard. Ed and Retta sat engaged in blissful conversation while they watched his play. The occasion seemed to revive all their once fond happiness. In the course of the hour they planned a party for Retta's birthday the following Thursday. "And I'll come extra early," said Ed, "to help you with the pantomime." So Retta began at once with the preliminary details of her birthday party. While she worked, her heart sang a wondrous love-rhapsody. Ed had made a new resolve and was not going to disappoint her any more. His golden promises made Retta's future shine "like leaves and flowers and strawberries a growing on one vine."