Tea and Coffee By Harold L. Snow
Let us be strict in our abstinence from drinking tea and coffee, as well as in our observance of the Word of Wisdom generally. When we study the situation, we may be able to see why Brigham Young made the "advice" given us by the Lord through the eighty-ninth section of the Doctrine and Covenants a "law" of the Church.
We probably then will quite willingly accept that good fatherly advice given us by One who sees so much better than we can what is good for us and just what is not. A pure body and a clean mind are usually willing to make a little sacrifice for something that will draw them a step or two closer to that "Great Power for Good" which is our love for and testimony of the Lord.
Tea, coffee, alcohol, and tobacco, along with failure to pay tithing, may all be compared to little worms that gradually eat away the strong foundation of our testimony that the gospel is true. So here are a few facts concerning the effects of tea and coffee on the human body, to show that both are harmful to the system, just as the Lord suggested in the Word of Wisdom. No; they are not so bad as some of the stronger poisons; but they are injurious to our health and longevity, not to mention their effects on character development. If a person leads a normal life and is able to master his temper, artificial stimulants will not be necessary to make him "be himself," nor to act as a consolation factor whenever disappointed or depressed.
The drug caffein contained in coffee is present in amounts varying from one to two percent. The ordinary cup of coffee contains from one and a half to three grains of the drug. This is as much as the physician gives as a dose of medicine in many cases to people whose sickness requires caffein to offset some physical depression. Because of the increase in blood pressure resulting from the caffein, coffee should be absolutely forbidden people who have hardening of the arteries, a disease occasionally present in those past middle age. Coffee does, for a time, brace one up for working. But the work is paid for with interest by the tearing down of important organs of the body. One of the first questions asked a nervous individual when taking a physical examination is "Do you drink coffee or tea?"
As far as the stomach is concerned, coffee is not so injurious as tea, which also contains caffein in addition to a greater supply of tannin than is in coffee. Especially when there is an over-
TEA AND COFFEE 553
acidity of the stomach they should be avoided. In general, coffee is decidedly injurious in affections of the stomach.
Personally, I have never drunk a cup of tea nor coffee in my life: about twenty-five years. I am thoroughly convinced of the fact that tea and coffee are meant for medicines, and that the habitual use of them makes drug addicts of us to a certain degree. Besides the ill effects of habit-formation which go with the drinking of tea or coffee, there is the unnecessary stimulation along with various other evil effects which are called by some the "wear and tear" on the body. These effects result not only from the caffein, but also from the tannin and other constituents of tea and coffee. In the case of us Latter-day Saints all these and other bad effects are bundled up together with the breaking of a religious principle. We have a good gospel. Let us try hard to live it, not only in regard to some but according to all the principles which have been given to us.