Lesson Department

Theology and Testimony
(First Week in June)

THEOLOGY—THE BOOK OF MORMON IDEA OF THE HEREAFTER

Select Readings: Alma, chapters 36-42 inclusive. Note the separate ideas here. Summarize the teachings of Alma the younger.

It is time now to sum up, to take account of our findings with respect to the value of the Book of Mormon as an evidence of the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith. First of all, as to the ideas it contains.

(1) There is the idea of God in his dealings with sinners in hell. The ideas in the Nephite Record, we found, were not at all in agreement with those that were current at the time of the Prophet, either in Palmyra or throughout the Christian world.

(2) There is the doctrine concerning man. Joseph Smith gave us what amounts to a new definition of immortality, in the Book of Mormon. Man not only is now and will continue a conscious individual after death, but he is co-eval with God. And this new immortality, so far as we know, had never been advanced as a Christian doctrine before the Prophet's time.

(3) There is the emphasis on man's life here. While this is not altogether new, being found in the Gospels, yet it was new in his time, first, in the stress on the Now and the Here and, secondly, in the attention to the near-end of human life instead of the remote. As a matter of fact, it is only now, when people have become disgusted with the older emphasis, that this idea has taken on a new meaning.

These ideas were put out by Joseph Smith. But Joseph Smith was uneducated; he had had no training in theology; and he was young, besides, not yet twenty-five. It is hardly credible that he alone was responsible for a set of ideas like these. That is why critics of the Book of Mormon have spent a full hundred years in trying to find out whether any other man helped him in the literary work involved. No competent critic, however, now believes that either Sidney Rigdon or Solomon Spaulding had anything to do with writing the Record.

The Prophet always maintained that God revealed the Book of Mormon to him, through Moroni, a resurrected man. This we have seen in the testimony he gives in his Autobiography. We submit that it is easier to believe that he was divinely inspired in this work than that he did it unaided of man or of God.

And there is the whole case, so far as the Book of Mormon is concerned.

But there is at least one bit of external evidence that we must touch upon here. It is the testimony of the three and the eight witnesses to the existence of the plates from which the Prophet claims to have translated the Book of Mormon. And the three witnesses bear testimony also to the fact of the heavenly messenger.

The reader should here turn to these testimonies, for there is not space here for them.

The eight witnesses declare that, in addition to seeing the gold plates, they also "hefted" them. Here are the two most dependable of the five senses involved in this testimony—sight and touch. The three witnesses declare that they saw the angel and heard his voice and that they saw the plates in his hands. Here are the senses of sight and hearing involved in the situation. Oliver Cowdery elsewhere states that he "handled" both the plates and the urim and thummim, with which the book was translated.

It is customary with us to show that these eleven men were not deceived by the Prophet and that they were not lying, because they had no motive to do so, either as to wealth or fame. But really this is not necessary any more, for the reason that the ground of belief in human testimony has shifted during recent years.

At one time no testimony was thought credible that was "improbable." This test depended on the opinion of the critic. If he looked upon it as improbable, he threw it out; but if he believed it probable, he accepted it. Hume, an English philosopher and historian, declared flatly that "the miraculous is the impossible," and he refused even to consider it, no matter how many persons can testify to it. But Professor Ihne, a German historian who deals with source material, says that the test to be applied to any witness is whether he is "able and willing to tell the truth." (See his work on Ancient Rome.) And some of our own historians in America believe this test applicable to witnesses to the miraculous as well. Indeed, as Professor Ihne tells us, every historical event rests ultimately on human testimony; and since the miraculous is an event that happens, it may be supposed that it, too, must of necessity rest on testimony.

This, at all events, is the modern way to test the witnesses to the Book of Mormon. The positive, undeviating testimony of these twelve men, if we include that of the Prophet, ought to be sufficient to enable one to trust in the divine origin of the Book of Mormon.

Perhaps it ought to be said at this point that even the testimony of these twelve men is not enough to give us a knowledge of the divine origin of the Nephite Record. At best that testimony is but evidence. A knowledge of the divine origin of that work can come only through our own experience, our own individual contact with the spiritual source of spiritual knowledge. Moroni, in the Record itself, tells us how that is to be done.

"When ye shall receive these things," he says, speaking of the time we are in, "I would exhort you that ye would ask God, the eternal Father, in the name of Christ, if these things are not true; and if ye shall ask with a sincere heart, with real intent, having faith in Christ, he will manifest the truth of it unto you, by the power of the Holy Ghost."

Having this assurance that Joseph Smith really did have spiritual contacts, through which he received visions and revelations concerning the Book of Mormon, we may now proceed with our last point in the study of the Nephite Record: the ideas it gives us about heaven, to which we shall add what the Prophet himself furnishes us on the same subject.

The fact of another life, if we must discriminate at all, is perhaps the outstanding thing in the Book of Mormon. Everything revolves around this point. It is of a piece with the Record itself. All the writers of the volume make this a central point in their work. All the prophets before Christ looked forward to his coming, as all those after him looked back to his advent. But the main thing about Christ, to them, was the fact of his redemption. In it they took glory; of it they were never tired of speaking and writing. It would hardly be an exaggeration to say that in the Nephite Record we get a more substantial feeling as to another life than even in the pages of the New Testament.

That is the first thing we get—an idea and feeling that heaven is a reality and not a "fabrication," an escape from disagreeable things here, as some have tried to make out after consulting their ignorance on the point.

A second thing we get from the Book of Mormon is a deep feeling concerning the resurrection from the dead.

To the Nephite prophets heaven was not a place where disembodied spirits lived an inactive life. They believed in a literal raising of the body. The quotation already given from Alma, in another lesson, shows this. Their heaven, therefore, was in reality but a continuation of this life—except that there man would be immortal, whereas here he is subject to death.

As an instance of this literalness we have, in addition to the Christ of the Nephite appearances, the case of Moroni; and here we touch the times of this heavenly messenger and also the times of Joseph Smith—thus connecting two important dispensations.

The Moroni of the Book of Mormon was a man, in an essential sense different from his contemporaries. He was born as they were; he ate, wore clothing, and slept much as they did; he took up arms against enemies, as they did and all lost to battle; he spoke and wrote the language of his people; and finally he died after the fashion of his people, although we do not know when or how.

But the Moroni that Joseph Smith knew was different. In what respects? Not in his mental and spiritual qualities, it would appear. For he manifested about the same interest in human welfare that he had done in his mortal body. He was extremely patient with the boy Joseph; he was anxious over him, to see that he had the necessary instructions for his work; and, although he reproved him for occasions and punished him for his transgressions, yet he exhibited great love and compassion for him.

But he was different in his tabernacle. That was now immortal, incapable any more of death and suffering. Moreover, it could appear and disappear at a moment's notice, as we saw on the first visit Joseph made to the hill Cumorah. And then, too, it was like our sound waves, the ones that carry into our radios; what we know as lumber and brick and stone was no hindrance at all to the resurrected Moroni, any more than they were to our Savior in Palestine after his resurrection. He appeared to the disciples when they were in the house, the "doors being shut." So Moroni did to the young Prophet on the twenty-first of September, 1823.

If then, we would ask to know something about the condition of those who are raised from the dead, our answer is clearer through what we have in connection with the Book of Mormon than it is from any other source that antedates that Record.