The Russian Religious Question
By Thomas L. Martin

The Russian religious question is one of the most perplexing problems of our time. It involves not only the spiritual welfare of 160,000,000 people, but also the political and economic stability of one-sixth of the world's land surface.

For more than a thousand years the Russian people have been deeply religious. The Orthodox Church has been an integral part of their national life. It has shaped their culture, their art, their literature, and their social institutions. The magnificent cathedrals of Moscow and Leningrad, the beautiful ikons, the stirring liturgy, all bear witness to the profound religious feeling of the Russian people.

But with the coming of the Bolshevik revolution in 1917, all this was changed. The new government, committed to the Marxian doctrine that religion is "the opium of the people," launched a systematic campaign against all forms of religious belief and practice. Churches were closed or converted to secular uses. Priests were imprisoned or exiled. Religious instruction was forbidden in the schools. The teaching of atheism became a part of the official educational program.

For fifteen years this anti-religious campaign has been carried on with relentless vigor. What has been the result? Has the Soviet government succeeded in destroying the religious faith of the Russian people?

The answer to this question is not easy to give. The Soviet authorities claim that they have made great progress in their fight against religion. They point to statistics showing that church attendance has declined, that fewer marriages are being performed by priests, that religious festivals are less generally observed than formerly.

On the other hand, there is considerable evidence that the religious spirit of the Russian people has not been destroyed. Travelers who have visited Russia in recent years report that many churches are still crowded with worshippers, especially on the great feast days. They tell of secret religious meetings held in private homes, of children being baptized in spite of official disapproval, of young people seeking religious instruction from aged priests who have managed to escape persecution.

The truth probably lies somewhere between these two extremes. Undoubtedly the anti-religious campaign has had some effect. Many Russians, especially among the younger generation, have been influenced by the constant propaganda against religion. But it seems equally certain that the deep-rooted religious traditions of the Russian people have not been completely eradicated.

What does the future hold? Will the Soviet government eventually succeed in creating a completely atheistic society? Or will the religious instincts of the Russian people prove stronger than the forces arrayed against them?

These are questions that only time can answer. But one thing seems certain: the struggle between religion and atheism in Russia is far from over. It is a conflict that will have profound implications not only for Russia itself, but for the entire world.