DECEMBER 1949 The Flight Dorothy J. Roberts the angel of the Lord appeareth to Joseph in a dream, saying, Arise, and take the young child and his mother, and flee into Egypt.... To shadowed Egypt from the starlit manger, There hide your infant from the Herod blow; Cold here the blade and sharp the steel of danger, But the Nile will remember only Pharaoh. Skirt the plains where sacred sandals wandered Lost in the wilderness of long ago; Mark by a new light the sea's arm, sundered, And the broken thread of the Jordan's flow. Where dim altars breast the moon's pale weather, Where legends lived before the parchment scroll, And your feet will tread the sands where many another Walked sunrise on the pathway of the soul. Their sleeping legions in your mind will waken, When you shall see the past with visioned eye, The mighty monuments by years unshaken, And hear again the thunder over Sinai. His promised light will lengthen by the sedges— Where Miriam put a cradle-craft to sea— Till it shall burn, the high noon of the ages, Its golden zenith over Galilee. The Cover: The Salt Lake Temple in Winter, Photograph by L. V. McNeely The Prophet's Sailing Orders to Relief Society President J]. Reuben Clark, Jr. Of the First Presidency [Address delivered at the afternoon session of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, September 29, 1949.] ISTERS of the Relief Society: It is a pleasure to be with you, even though I have to talk. I have greatly enjoyed the meeting so far, and the instructions, the advice, and the counsel that have been given to you. You have a great mission, as you are told on all occasions, but you cannot be told too often, nor can you too earnestly remember it. I have always been impressed with the introduction that Webster made in his reply to Hayne. I have not read it for years. It is not wholly applicable, but at the beginning of his reply, which dealt with fundamental principles of constitutional government, he said that when a ship had been on the ocean, driven by winds and storms for many days, the mariner always took the first occasion when the heavens were visible, to take his bearings and find out where he was. Now, you have not been driven and wind-tossed since your organization. You have had the guidance of the prophets of the Lord, who have, from time to time, given you the instructions which they felt you should have. Nevertheless, remembering that introduction, I decided that I would go back to the beginning of your organization and acquaint myself again, somewhat, Page 796 with the circumstances under which you were organized. As you know, at your first meeting you were organized, on March 17th of 1842. During that summer, and until August 31, the Prophet met with the sisters rather frequently. On two or three occasions he preached really great sermons and he laid down for you the course which he felt you should follow. As I read a little something of the history of those times, I found that the summer of 1842 was one of the most difficult summers for him, personally, through which he lived. The infamous Bennett was in Nauvoo stirring up all the trouble he knew how to stir, and he was a good stirrer. [he Prophet was driven almost, apparently, to his wit's ends to know what to do. Bennett left Nauvoo sometime during the summer. During this same summer the enemies of the Church, and _particularly of the Prophet, in Missouri, sought to involve the Prophet in an attempt that was made upon the life of ex-governor Boggs. It went so far that they finally secured papers, extradition they called them, though not technically so, extradition papers to get him from Nauvoo back into Missouri, where, of course, they would have made short shrift of him if they could have gotten him O ster Spafford Tead howing What at summer jp 4volding the the home I NECEssity o Teturning ¢. Hat is Teally a Serious thing € did avoid t. Il she Tead about that, as Well as t was during alj of this trouble other things, was true € ate losin that he ganized this Relief Society the art o making homes. Our chi] and I felt aS I read the account of dren, untaught jn h affairs of Is talks to + Cm, what he told t em, home, Of course do not know how felt that } had turneg tO the sis. To make ime. And yoy Relief Crs for the "nsolation, for the upSociety members must bring into lift of Which he Stood in Such sq th home, your homes, all that Need at that time, should be there, SUPPOse T do Not need to tel] I had thought, but the time wil] YOU sisters tha} YOu ate the anchors nop Permit, that 7 ight read ou which hold ys Men moored here me Of those ear] Sermons of the we ought t Ber a PPose I neeg Prop et, some of things Which Not tell yoy that you a OUT comhe said, about Which he aught. And Ort and our Consolatio I SUPPose J 4M not syy " Sister Spa Ord, but I do not tO remin you that that Ou mig We look to YOu and have to look nd the "NCOouragemen} Ose things Which he g; Which Maintain life, Id not set ftom the € do not brethren, They were falling, 59 to with you, nor with Speak, on all Sides, Hj > And s0 We Must look eq f,; tO you, and do t 798 to build a home where love Shall be, serenity, peace, quiet, culture, and all the things that go to make a home. I hope the Lord will bless you in your labors. I hope he will bring to each of you a realization of what you ought to be, and what you ought to do. And do not try to be anything else but good mothers and good homemakers, for that will exhaust all the time, all the effort, and pay the greatest dividends of anything you can do in the world. I rejoice in being with you. I pray God to bless you, to bless you who preside and you who serve, and it is as blessed to serve as it is to preside, and with infinitely less reRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1949 sponsibility. The humblest man, and the humblest woman, doing his duty in the place in which he is called to work, will deserve and receive just as much reward as the man who so serves and so acts in the highest position. The Lord always used the poor of the earth to iL lustrate how men should live. Again, may God bless you and be with you through the years to come, give you the vision of the true homemaker, that you will be able to save by this course, not alone Zion, but the world. And that is your destiny, and Ours, to save the world. God bless you, I ask, in the name of Jesus. Amen. The Annual General Relief Society Conference September 28 and 20, 1949 Counselor Marianne C. Sharp, Chairman, Conference Committee ciety conference for 1949 was held Wednesday and Thursday, September 28, 29, at Salt Lake City with President Belle S. Spafford presiding at all the sessions. All stakes of the Church were Tepresented with the exception of Oahu and Spokane. The mission Relief Society presidents were not in attend. Ance at the conference, but district and branch officers of many missions in the United States were present. The meetings on Wednesday consisted of presentations of the educational courses, including a discussion on work meeting activities conducted, consecutively, in the AsTce annual general Relief Sosembly Hall by the respective chairmen. The congregational singing was led by Sister Florence J. Madsen with Sister Beverly B. Glauser at the organ. Four special departments were conducted simultaneously from 2:45 to 3:45 in the afternoon for secretaries, Indian relations, Relief Society Magazine, and music. Wednesday night the annual teception was held in the Lafayette Ballroom, Hotel Utah, for stake and mission officers and board members. On Thursday morning the Officers Meeting was held in the Assembly Hall. The Temple View Stake Singing Mothers sang three beauti- RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE - Aaams Fine Photography THE GENERAL OFFICERS OF RELIEF SOCIETY Left to right: First Counselor Marianne C. Sharp; President Belle S. Spafford; Second Counselor Velma N. Simonsen; Secretary-Treasurer Margaret C. Pickering. Ful songs under the direction of Naomi B. Hahn, with DeEtte B. Stewart at the piano and Sue E. Christensen at the organ. The Thursday afternoon session was held in the Tabernacle, open members of the general board— Sisters Evon W. Peterson, Mary J Wilson and Leone O. Jacobs also addressed the sisters at this closing session. 'The Singing Mothers of the Jordan Valley Region and the to the general public. President George Albert Smith and President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Both addressed the great congregation of sisters from all over the Church. President Belle S. Spafford and three other four Provo stakes, under the direction of Sister Florence J. Madsen, added to the sacredness of the meeting by rendering four beautiful songs. Brother Frank Asper was at the organ. The talk ""Woman's Role as Homemaker" by President Belle S. Spafford, delivered at the Thursday afternoon session in the Tabernacle, has been published in the November 1949 issue of The Relief Society Magazine. A digest of certain features of the conference is presented in the following pages of this issue of the Magazine. Because of the limitation of space some addresses will be published in later issues as follows: The address by President George Albert Smith will appear in the January issue; that of Elder Benson in the February issue; and that of Bishop Wirthlin in the May issue of The Relief Society Magazine. Copies of the talks "Theology Department in Union Meeting," by Ethel C. Smith; "Universal Appeal of Visiting Teacher Messages,' by Mary G. Judd; and digests of the talks '""The Worth of The Relief Society Magazine to Latter-day Saint Women" by Elder Lynn McKinlay and "The Value of Great Literature and How to Gain an Appreciation of It" by Elder Briant S. Jacobs, have been sent to the stakes in mimeograph form. Following is a schedule of the meetings: DEPARTMENTAL MEETINGS—Wednesday, September 28, 1949 Morning—io-12 Noon—Assembly Hall Bt a Ethel C. Smith, Chairman 800 Bs > Work Meeting 2 2000cccee eee eee Afternoon—1: 30-2:30—Assembly Hall Visiting 'Teaching -: e.0- 0 Social Science -2 0..0c--c2ee0-ee-eeeeee — 2245-3745 Indian Relations Secretaries Relief Society Magazine Music RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1949 <i Leone O. Jacobs, Chairman wooo Leone G. Layton, Chairman ty G. Judd, Chairman Edith S. Elliott, Chairman Thursday, September 29, 1949 Officers Meeting—Assembly Hall Morning—lo0-12 Noon General Session—Tabernacle Afternoon—z2:00-4:00 <= DEPARTMENTAL MEETING MORNING SESSION-SEPTEMBER 28, 1949 Digest—Untroduction to Lesson Courses Counselor Marianne C. Sharp DUCATION is an important part of the life of a Latter-day Saint. The Lord has said "It is impossible for a man to be saved in ignorance" and "Whatever principle of intelligence we attain unto in this life, it will mse with us in the resurrection. And if a person gains more knowledge and intelligence in this life through his diligence and obedience than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come." The general board is proud of the courses which are designed to be presented this coming year. We feel that they are of vital interest and importance in the lives of our members, and trust that you sisters of the stakes will see that the true purpose of each course is attained in the lessons as taught in the wards. We wish to express appreciation to the writers of our lessons who give fully and freely of their great talents for the upbuilding of the sisters of Relief Society. 'Their reward, sisters, lies in the benefit and enlightenment which come to you and the other women of the Church, who study these excellent and outstanding lessons. Digest— Relief Society in the Lives of Our Sisters in &urope Nida A. Taggart Former President, Swiss-Austrian Mission Relief Society ask for the Spirit of the Lord and for an interest in your faith and prayers that I may be able to tell you what I have in my heart. I was able, from my mission, to gain a deeper testimony of the di- RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE vinity of Relief Society work and the effectiveness that it has in the lives of our sisters in Europe. It has been the shining light in most of their lives. These sisters in many of those lands where women have been given few, if any, privileges, have found in the Relief Society work their place in the sun. They have the spirit of mercy. They visit the sick and they never go empty-handed, if it is only a flower they take with them. They have little money to give, but they give their time and their love and all of their effort. They love the lessons. 'They were thrilled to know that they were studying the same lessons that you are studying here. 'They have some very fine class leaders. Everyone takes part. You know that love is the foundation of democracy, and, in these troubled times in Europe, what greater gift could we give those women than our wonderful Relief Society program and to bring them the gospel of Jesus Christ? Never in the history of our mission have the doors been opened to us as they are at present. In Germany, Sister Wunderlich is doing a magnificent work in bringing order out of chaos. She has brought those sisters together. When they had a convention in Frankfurt, they displayed twentyfive thousand articles of clothing that their sisters had made out of materials from the welfare clothing that needed re-making. They were feeling that they, too, had their welfare project, and they are beginning to be able to help themselves. The Swiss sisters were not hurt 801 by the war, yet they were very active and eager to help their less fortunate neighbors. 'They gathered clothing and food and gave their precious food coupons in order to send food and clothing to Germany and Austria. Every member child in Austria was brought into Switzerland and cared for in the homes of our sisters. 'They were cared for from three to six months, fed and clothed and rehabilitated. It was a marvelous thing for our sisters to do. In that first winter, the winter of 1947, Our wonderful Relief Society president in Vienna had a little plot of ground an hour and a half out from the center of the city. She traveled out there every day to take care of that plot of ground herself. She planted and harvested those potatoes and she harvested enough to help every family in that branch. She said to me: "Sister 'Taggart, it was like the story of the loaves and the fishes. I have never harvested as many potatoes before or since." As mission wives in Europe, the wives of the mission presidents are doing a magnificent job. I would like to pay tribute to them here. Those sisters in Europe would love to join the body of the Church. I think in every one of their hearts is that wish sometime to come to Zion, but next to that is the thought that they are a part of this great Relief Society organization, that they are doing all they can to further the work of the Lord in those countries. May he bless them with everything they need, that they may have courage and faith, whatever may come, I pray. Ctober Jes. - The additional] li t acquaintance With spel relative to things." Even a s]j € to lS indeed Satismg. There will b | Cty likely whet for more, PPortunity tying in SOspel Punciples also In ther lessons Another Suggestion: t scat C ate confident that this Course €r your Munition too far. Don' In glish literature 1 TY to cover 5 uch Material that val you can Only flit from one +h; another g will prove of alue to the women of € thing to of the Church having them req and Study Justice, great literature, that by so doing they to leave one Well-deNOt Waste time ON inferior Tead ned Impression With your Class Ing Materia] expect jt members than 0 leave S€vera] hazy, "NCOurage + m to Upervise Confused one Ore closely the Teading ha its of ake generous se € text Cr children and provide them CTe ls muc valuable bac groun ith worthwhi] literature In their Material in jp Own hom Ne Project for O S€ maps and Pictures freely, Re Relief Society hers Would be to member, Visual aids € Just as im. Naugurate the abit of Teading aloud Portant jn adult teach 48 in chi] together jn the hom This Could eaching. The Natio! Geog aphic wel] be NCOrporated to the amily Or April 1949, seems have been Hour Program, Fo, cvery member Planned Purposely fo, this Ourse the family, of Suitable &€, to take C contains Much excel] € materia] turn in req Ing aloud from some and Pictures Pertinent Ngtish Iterary Mast Tpiece d Literatur, For the €sson the ficial Page go? Chairman Wor Meeting Committee PLANNING and Conducting Work leisure momen meetings which Sisters wil] of effor fee] they 'nNot afford + Miss is g teal challen TS, lored des &n besides struction jp Cedlework and cro. Nd housekeepers has et skills <TC aie bagi Tules 4 place in this day's TOogtam, that can famed which govern may have alm st as m ny different beauty, both of form and Color. The Ings to q 48 there are women | vely crafts hich hay lived so Present, since the Tange of Interests long Should hot be forgott among oyr Sisters j SO wide and edica] Clence, MOreover, tel]. Their heeds so diverse. US Of the therapeutic alue 0 work ¢ are very Proud of the fine inIng with the hands. Struction Which has been Siven You stake leaders "annot plan for Tough th Suggested sewing the Wards but you can plan with Course, JF there is q Ingle young them Fy your ward Visits you woman in Your wards who does not know the Condition o the various feel able to Sew for her children, yoy Wards. You can hose which need to "lCourage d Mstruct her ack by Suggestions and demonstra The pride Of creative COMP tig 7 your union ceting depart. Ment and the Pleasure of Seeing your Ment children Well dresseg by the labor and skill of your o intangibles but t Can suggest better oy. Nization of the work a ry Nd ways to wn han Interest and bring in NeW women, e 0 less req] You can help raise tandards. Sugthan the 4 ual saving in dollars ang new ideas In andwork and ents which thi, art Brings ¢ h omemaking, ang cal] ome, Work Jeetings should CO serve th attention to NE articles or books on be Planned € home In ey ome man 4sement and ho C decoration You e Way poscan stimulate the wards to do sea. Sible. Ag YOu check oye he achal Planning. You can be contivities of any homemak you be. Stantly aware of trends Nd new 1 to see th POssibilities Of eac Ideas 'that will helpful] 0 you work day > Nomemaker buyMembers er, bookkeep > decorator COok, Sisters, | Pray our Heavenly Fa laundress, dish her, telephone OPther that he will oy; C us, that he €rator, ther, seq stress, "Se, will give us ingenuity d Imaging. With garde ing "anning thrown fon that we May mak homemak In besid Ing attractive to OUr Sisters that C is natural for women to Want we may foster the Ove for Creative tO create beauty With their hands. Skills, that hroy Our efforts Almost ey woman has som, thing Latter-day aint homes m SHE Dicks y and works On in her better pj their better S to have 800d govern In this World of Ours Where the Ment—one that jis fair, Progressive thing ve seem have th wena 'S Confusion, C need the suidance and dependab] 4nd help of O "avenly Father * 134th section of the Doctrine along Politica] a, Well as Spititua] and Ovenants js a dec atation of lines S given us the Precious What The Chure f esus Christ of gift of freedo: € must guard jt Latter-qy Saints believes to rte know that "eternal vigilance js ASPects of 4 mode] Sovernment. It the Ptice of liberty," Sters, that you yOur stakes, | Can see that there wil] Can catch the Vision of Ss happy Tesults, | Work 4mong the Lamanite Sisters OPe We wil] Not be too much and that you will be able to 48s bound by patterns. The regular pat the vision and the enthusiasm °n to tern of One Relief Society 4 week C sisters with Whom you Work, need not be followed. The course €n all o YOu return to your of gt dy must be adjusted to needs homes, if y INspire another fifty The In lan work IS mor Or less of °r a hundred nN IN each 4M experiment yet. We wi Page 804 RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE to get the benefit of your suggestions also, as you find effective ways of teaching. Last month, in our meeting in the Temple, President Clark made the statement that he had spent several years down in Mexico among the Lamanites, the pure-blooded Indians, and also the Mexicans. He found that they have a greater discernment than we do, generally. If you think with just an outward show of friendliness, you can go into their lives, you are badly mistaken. An Indian can see through you clear into the heart, and he knows whether you are friend or foe. Now sisters, the most important thing in this whole Indian program, as I see it, is education, divided into two phases. The first phase is education of the Latter-day Saints at home, some of whom need their hearts opened, cleansed and purged and purified and made ready to accept the program. And phase two is the proselyting of the Lamanites themselves. The scriptures are filled with prophecies in connection with this people. Why, there are few subjects on which there is so much revealed. The prophecies must, and will be fulfilled. They can be fulfilled only by our help. We must go out and do this work. Now, we have tried segregation of the Indians in this nation for a hundred years. It did not work. Segregation has been almost a complete failure. Many of them are still "blanket" Indians,-after a century of segregation. The program of the Church must be one of assimilation and integration. We must take them into our arms, into our 805 hearts, into our Relief Societies, into our sacrament meetings, into our Sunday Schools, into our Primaries, into our Mutual, and into our hearts. I am reminded of what Peter said. You remember he thought the gospel was for the Jews only. The Lord revealed that the gospel was for gentiles as well, but the Jews could hardly believe it. 'They, including the apostles, had grown up with the thought all those years, that the gospel was for the Hebrews and that the Samaritans and all the other groups of those Gentiles along the Mediterranean coast were not clean. And then you will remember in the vision Peter saw all the reptiles and the beasts of every kind, and Peter said "... God hath shewed me that I should not call any man common or unclean." I think the Lord put the reptiles and the snakes and the beasts all in this vision, so that Peter would know the extent of the inclusion and that there was no one to whom the gospel should not come, even the poor and the degraded and the unclean, and so he finally received his testimony. And he went about preaching the gospel to the gentiles. Some of his own brethren, even in the Council of the Twelve, began to argue with him, and finally Peter said to them: "What was I, that I could withstand God?" Now, sisters, the Lord has shown that he is willing to accept the Indian. Who are you and who am I, that we can withstand God? 'The Book of Mormon and the Doctrine and Covenants are full of revelations indicating that these people must receive the gospel and that 806 God does and we must, accept them. Sisters, we must come to a program of assimilation and integration, and we must learn the lesson that Peter learned, and that others have had to learn. "Unwashen hands" is no crime. It is a crime to have unwashen souls. You remember how the Pharisees, with vile hearts, would not eat with Christ's disciples with "unwashen hands." If you had committed no greater sin than these particular Indians have who are living today, the sin of being descendants of those who sinned, how would you feel about it? Would you cry for deliverance? Would you grope for light? Would you think that perhaps you had paid your penalty and that now you should be given consideration and brought back into the world of the living? In today's paper, there is the testimony of Sister Sundust. May I quote just a few lines from her. She said: I am proud to be a Latter-day Saint. You know, in my years there is always fear and doubt, not only me, but the tribe of the Maricopa Indians living eighteen miles from here between the Gila and Salt Rivers. There were other missionaries that came there, but they didn't go far. They don't tell the right way nor the truth and I drift away. From there on there was always doubt in my mind whether there was a living God and his Son, Jesus Christ. And then, finally, one day your people came around. And now she is a member of the Church, with her children. "THE Indians are calling for the gospel; they are begging for it. Bear your testimony to them and the Lord will magnify your testimony, and it will be recorded in the heavRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1949 ens for the angels to look upon, and it will bear fruits. Your testimonies and the simple explanation of the gospel of Jesus Christ will win many converts. Remember this, sisters: If the Indians had all that was rightfully theirs they would not be where they are and we would not be where we are. Remember that. We are here through the grace of God, and do not forget it. 'The Lord gave us to share an inheritance with the Indians in this glorious land which is choice above all other lands in all the world. But it is ours only on the condition, as I see it, that we do our part in seeing that these people come into the Church. What the Lamanite needs is opportunity. The only difference between us and the Indian is opportunity. Give them an opportunity, sisters, so that they, too, can enjoy the blessings that you do. And take this message back to your people in the stakes, that they leave off their racial prejudice. Racial prejudice is of the devil. Racial prejudice is of ignorance. There is no place for it in the gospel of Jesus Christ. I have read to you some of the scriptures indicating this. Now, sisters, I could talk to you for hours about the problems and destinies of these people who occupy so much of the thoughts of my working hours and even share in my dreams of the night, but may I leave this one thought: The Lamanite has suffered much and long for the sins of his fathers far beyond the third or fourth generation. He is now responsive to the gospel and is entitled to it. He will not receive it without RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE our help. We must not fail him. We must accept, fraternize, and fellowship him, and cease to spurn and hiss him. And I say it again and again to all of us, as did Peter, who are we that we can withstand the plan 807 which the Lord God of Heaven has established for them? Who are we to say who is unclean, who has "unwashen"' hands? May you do all in your power, with a great enthusiasm, to fulfil] the promises of God, I pray. OFFICERS MEETING THURSDAY MORNING, SEPTEMBER 29, 1949 Digest—Report and Official GDnstructions General President Belle S. Spafford a you a ONCE again it becomes privilege to present to brief report of the status of Relief Society, this time for 1948. Our hearts are filled with gratitude to our Heavenly Father, and to the splendid women who have made possible the growth of the society in all of its aspects. We acknowledge the wonderful support and direction that have come to us from the Priesthood authorities. General and Stake Boards € have at present twenty-three members of the general board. Since our last conference it has been necessary to release two of our beloved and capable board members, Sister Priscilla L, Fvans and Sister Florence G. Smith. Only one board member has been appointed since last October, Sister Nellie W. Neal, former president of the Farr West Stake, who was named to the general board in May 1940. We have at present stake board organizations in all of the one hundred Seventy-four stakes of the Church, with Relief Societies in all of the forty-four missions of the Church except two, the Japanese and the Chinese Missions. | Work in Missions We are now receiving annual reports and hearing regularly from all] of the missions, Including the foreign-speaking missions. We are encouraged by the growth of the mission Relief Societies and by the spirit with which the work is conducted there. More and more the Mission societies are conforming to the uniform Program of Relief So. Ciety, and are striving to conduct their work in accordance with recommended procedure. The general board is beginning to build up a foreign language department of lessons, and has asked the Missions to supply copies of all translated Relief Society lessons. We believe this wil] Prove of inestimable value in the future. Are also asking them, as well as you sisters in the stakes, to keep on hand a copy of A Centenary of Relief Society and the Handbook of In. Structions as well as bound volumes of The Relief Society Magazine. Membership and Attendance The membership of Relief Society was increased during 1948 by 3,843 women, giving usa total mem bership of 115,686 members as of De- 808 cember 31, 1948. Sisters, as long as I preside over the society, you will hear of the importance of extending the blessings and benefits of mem. Bership to every Latter-day Saint woman. Visiting Teacher Messages We commend you most heartily for your continued efforts in strengthening and extending the visiting teaching services. The quality of the work continues to improve according to frequent reports received at the general office and the messages are well received by both visiting teachers and the women in the homes. The delivery of the message remains of vital importance even though reports of the number of homes in which the message was presented have been discontinued. Family Visits Compassionate services show a substantial increase and the sisters continue their loyal support of the Church Welfare Program. The study of a family situation for the purpose of determining its problems and its needs should be carefully, intelligently, and unhurriedly made. Usually it is not possible in a single visit to understand the family, its basic problems, and the resources within it, For this reason we recommend to you a careful consideration of follow-up visits and their value. Even when the need for help has ceased, we would recommend that the friendly interest of the president continue to be expressed through visits to the home. Service by Those Assisted We urge a continuation of your efforts to have the sisters visited by RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1949 Relief Society presidents under the direction of their bishops, contribute service to the Welfare Program, and do their own sewing wherever possible. In assigning the 1950 clothing budget the general committee ls recommending that only a portion of it be made up into articles of clothing, and that the remainder be held in yardage in the storehouse for distribution on bishop's orders to families who may be able or who can be taught to do their own sewing. Fund-Raising Activities Reports show the society, as a whole, to be in good condition with respect to finances. Funds appear to have been raised judiciously and expended wisely. F und-raising activities have been, in general, in keeping with the standards and dignity of Relief Society, and they have, in large measure, been the out growth of the regular Relief Society program, or a reflection of it. This the general board fully endorses and would encourage. Relief Society Not a Selling Agent We are aware that you are occasionally approached by commercial institutions or by individuals for the purpose of having you sell their product on a commission basis. Such an undertaking should be weighed carefully and the counsel of the Priesthood should be sought. Care must be exercised to make sure that Relief Society does not become a selling agent, and that people are not solicited in the name of the society to the point where the society becomes subject to criticism. Purchase of Sewing Machines The general board members, in RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE visiting your stakes, report that a number of local societies do not have sewing machines. I can scarcely imagine a society of any considerable size being without a sewing machine. We, therefore, suggest that where it is at all feasible that the sisters work toward the purchase of at least one that will meet the ordinary requirements of the society. Ward Versus Stake Functions We note a growing tendency for stake boards to bring the wards together for functions that could more appropriately be conducted in the individual wards. As a_ general tule it is more convenient for the members, more women participate, fuller interest is felt, and greater benefits accrue to the sisters and to the society when functions are conducted in the individual wards. Support of Magazine We wish to thank you from the bottom of our hearts for your loyal support of the Magazine. We urge stake Relief Society presidents to support the Magazine by calling it to the attention of stake and ward officers from time to time in the preliminary session of the union meeting. It is suggested that ward presidents allow five minutes once a month to call the Magazine to the attention of the members in a regular meeting of the society. Indian Relations Program I wish to again remind you that responsibility for the Indian relations program rests with the stake Indian relations committee, with the stake presidency at its head. Relief Society works in harmony with 809 this committee and has representation on it. Appoint as a member of the stake board a chairman of Indian relations as well as the committee members recommended in our recent letter to you when the need for such workers arises. Include in the annual narrative report a brief statement of the activity. We would also appreciate receiving a letter from you occasionally regarding the program. Handbook Available I am sure we are all happy that the Handbook is now available. With A Centenary of Relief Society also in your hands to acquaint you with the history of the society for its first hundred years, you have two valuable aids in the conduct of your work. Relief Society Building We again express Our most sincere thanks for your wonderful response to the Relief Society Building fund-raising program. We were hopeful, as was the First Presidency, that we could announce at this conference, the building site. We are assured by the First Presidency that they are moving as rapidly as they can in this situation. Just as soon as we receive definite word from them you will be advised. Lists of Contributors The lists of contributors were painstakingly and beautifully prepared. We thank you for the excellence of your work in this matter. Vase Received From the Swiss-Austrian Mission The general board recently received from the Swiss-Austrian Mission an exquisite Meissen ware vase 810 as a gift for the new Relief Society Building. It is very rare and beautiful. We all thank this mission for this choice gift which will have a prominent place in the new building where all of you may see it. Sisters, we love you for what you are and for the good you do. President Clark has told us: "The Relief Society is the handmaid to the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1949 Priesthood of God in carrying on his work for the salvation of men. This is the key to every task you undertake, it unlocks the door to your every duty, it opens the gate to all your activities." Let us always remember this admonition of President Clark. May God bless you in the important work to which you have been called, I sincerely pray. Meeting Our Obligations Counselor Velma N. Simonsen OMETIME ago I read a letter written by a father to his son upon the son's_ graduation from college. In it he said, "In the game of life it won't matter whether you win or lose, but how you meet your obligations." We can well apply that advice to our Own lives and to our work in the Church. It does not matter what positions we hold, whether we are presidents, counselors, secretaries, or visiting teachers, but how we meet the obligations of our positions. Probably we gathered here today have the greatest obligation of any group of women of equal numbers that could be called together anvwhere in the whole world. And to whom are we obligated? Certainly we have an obligation to the past. No other women have as great a heritage as we women of Relief Society, Think of that first Relief Society. The purpose and aims and fundamentals have not changed in over one hundred years. We must so build that we will not weaken the structure they so firmly established. We are obligated to the future. We are charged with the responsibility of training the mothers who in turn will take these instructions into the homes where they will influence future generations. But our greatest obligation is to the present, for this is our time, and, if we meet the obligation of today faithfully, we will likewise fulfill our obligation to the past and to the future. Of course, our first obligation is to God, for life and being and all that we have and are. That we are grateful for these blessings, that we are trying to fulfill our obligation to him, and that we are not satisfied with merely thanking him in words for his bounties to us, is evidenced by our 'accepting responsibility in his Church. But do we often ask ourselves as did one of old, "What shall I render unto the Lord for all his goodness unto me?" There is only one way we can really pay our debt to God —by keeping his commandments and rendering service to others. Someone has said, service is the rent we pay for the space we occupy here on earth. We are members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE and as such we have an obligation to live the gospel and keep the commandments of God. At the time of baptism we made a covenant with the Lord to do so. But, as stake officers and teachers in Relief Society, it is especially important for us to live according to the standards of the Church and to set the proper example. We have been called to lead and direct the women of our stakes. We have been called to this position not because of our wealth, not because of our social positions, not because of any material possessions or qualifications we may have, but because we love the gospel and live it to the best of our ability and have quallities of spiritual leadership. And we can expect to lead the women no higher than we live ourselves. The Bible says, "as with the people, so with the priest." Our homes must be examples for the women of the stakes to follow. They should be clean, well-kept, and sanitary. And it is our responsibility to guide, direct, and teach the women in the proper maintenance of their homes. There should be cooperation among family members, and love and righteous ambition. Tithing is accepted by Latter-day Saints as a law of God to man, and while the law contains a promise of rewards, we should obey it because it is the Lord's command that we do so, and by obedience comes the blessing of increased spirituality which we must have if we wish to meet the obligations of our callings. Important among the standards of the Church is the observance of the Word of Wisdom, the Lord's guide to temporal salvation, and the 811 proper care of the body. No true Latter-day Saint and, especially, no true Latter-day Saint chosen to a position of leadership, would disregard this law which condemns the use of tobacco and alcoholic beverages and advises against the use of tea and coffee. We need the great and unusual blessings that are promised to those who observe this law. We believe in being honest, true, chaste, and benevolent. We believe that, but do we practice it in very deed? In this day of idle words and scheming for self-gain are our promises fulfilled to the letter? Would we be willing to have the Church judged by the way we keep our obligations in this respect? THER helps toward gaining spiritual development are family and individual prayers and the blessings upon the food, the observance of the Sabbath day, which includes attendance at sacrament meeting and the partaking of the sacrament. Besides living the gospel and teaching it by example, we have an obligation to bring spirituality into all our Relief Society activities. We have a comprehensive educational program in Relief Society aimed to develop the women in every phase of life. We must not lose sight of the fact that spirituality is the foundation and the thread that must run through the entire structure of our Relief Society program to give it strength and purpose and effectiveness. We frequently hear it said, and rightly so, that through activity in Relief Society one can get a liberal 812 education, but we must not become so concerned with self-development in a material way that we lose sight of the great purpose of Relief Society—that of strengthening our testimonies of the gospel and of giving service to others. Years ago at a Relief Society conference, I heard a speaker make a statement that has helped me to realize the importance of spirituality in our lives. He said, "Give your children spiritual experience and they will not be satisfied with any other." Let our women be fed rich spiritual food when they come to Relief Society and they will be anxious to return for more. As a child I used to go to the field with my father to feed the cows. 'They would be scattered all over the field. Father would pound on the bars with the pitchfork and the cows would come running from every direction. 'They were rewarded with good, fresh food. I wonder what would have happened RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1949 if once or twice they had not found good food when they were called. Upon you stake officers rests the responsibility to see that this spiritual food is given to the women in the wards. You must see that ways and means are found to let them enjoy spiritual experiences. Let us not let the temporal things of life take away the blessings of spirituality. 'The Lord has said: For behold I will bless all those who labor in my vineyard with a mighty blessing. Wherefore be not weary in well doing for you are laying the foundation of a great work and out of small things proceedeth that which is great. Strive first for spirituality, seek first to know the deep things of God, and bring to our hungry mothers rich spiritual food. My prayer is that each of us holding a place of responsibility in Relief Society will so meet the obligations of her calling that when our final score is taken, it will be said of us, "Well done, thou good and faithful servant." Yoy in Leadership Counselor Marianne C. Sharp "MEN are that they might have joy," so wrote the great prophet Nephi in declaring the summation of man's goal. Joy, however, comes as a reward for obedience to. Eternal, righteous principles. Joy in leadership, as in other activities, comes as a result of exercising leadership in the way marked out for us by the greatest leader, as he was the greatest teacher, our Savior Jesus Christ. In speaking of leadership, Christ taught:. Whosoever will be great among you, shall be your minister: And whosoever of you will be the chiefest, shall be servant of all. For even the Son of man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister. Therefore, you sisters who stand at the head of the Relief Societies of the stakes of the Church and all assembled here today are servants to those over whom we preside. In order to render the utmost in service there are certain attributes which must be woven into the very being of our spirits. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE Perhaps the frst desirable at tribute would be a full-hearted acceptance of the particular call which Howevet unworthy we may feel to a call of Jeadership in the Church, we know that we are called to such positions through the inspiration of the Priesthood. When a call comes is 0 time to bemoan lost opportunities of the past to better fit one's self for the present call—it is too late for that. When a call comes we must bend all out energies to training for -. E that lies before US; and seek through prayer, study, and our as it comes: templation of all the work that lies ahead during one year is well-nigh | remember a sister one time who was called to serve on 4 Relief Society stake board. In every ward she visited she related how ill equipped che was to fill the position until finally she was made to realize that she was casting reflection On those who had called her to leaderip. From the day she wholeheartedly accepted her appointment and ceased to apologize, she went forward with matked success and experienced satisfaction and jOY in het work as she magnified her calling. A second necessary attribute for joy im leadership ls full loyalty to those who preside over recognition of their right to 813 us. Perhaps we may be given more duties and responsibilities than we consider to be just. Will we ever find joy through rebelling or being disloyal and complaining to others? No, and through perfect loyalty in accepting without question all that '5 asked of each of us, comes greatest srowth. Every task which is undertaken with a willing spirit to which we devote our best efforts rewards the doer with increased powet of accomplishment. The more the ef fort required, the greater the growth. As Sister Robison 'ised to say, "Wel come the task that makes you g° beyond yourself." Another essential attribute closely aligned with the full acceptance of a call and the magnifying of it and loyalty to those who preside over US, ', not to aspire to any other posi tion than the one to which we have been called. At many of the early meetings of Relief i Prophet Joseph Smith warned the sisters repeatedly against this very evil. Said, "Everyone should aspire only to magnify his own office and calling, beware of self-righteousness and be limited in the estimate of your own virtues." From filling the positions to which we are called will come growth to of each of our spirits which the Lord knows needs the greatest development. We should appreciate the truth that this life ls put a brief span of eternity and out progress will continue 0" where he leave off here. Other necessary attributes are meekness and humility. You will remember that to his disciples, Won dering who ls greatest 10 the king; dom of God, Jesus, placing a child 814 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1949 '1 their midst, said, 'Whosoever to you. During your absence they therefore shall humble himself as lack your tender ministrations. They this little child, the same lS greatest are giving an extra watchcare to your in the kingdom of heaven." A while children that no harm may come to ago | heard of some stake sisters them during your absence. 'They who were going to regulate some sacrifice, as do you, for the good you sisters In a ward. Their spinit seemed may accomplish. Anything but meek and humble.! As our adherence to righteous think we could pattern Our behavior principles, as our obedience to those after that which the Lord gave to who preside over us increase, sO the Priesthood, that poweet! And indoes the joy we gain in leadership, ': as we strive to overcome Out faults by persuasion, by long-suffering, by and weaknesses and discipline selfish gentleness, and meekness, and by and envious traits. Joy comes jove unfeigned; by kindns' A Giouth bee ee foibles pure knowledge which shall greatly and faili enlarge the soul without hypocrisy and without guile." PuNALly, to find. Joy 1 leaderfailed in one assignment Ot sugges tion which the general board has Church callings must be attended th to after our families ate served. This at greatest work of Reliet A S: -_ re) F rc ' ij th requires forethought and diligence ociety—in HYDE to the relief of the: —"_ stranger, pour in oil and wine to put no sister cat find joy 11 leadertget, P 6.. + the wounded heart of the distressed ship if she 1 neglecting her family and drying UP the tears of the orFor your good works we thank you with hearts full of love. We realize that your work taxes yout to Relief Society. Your presence utmost efforts and that not the least here today from Canada, from Mex of your anxiety 1 the responsibility 'co, from all ovet the United States, resting upon you to guide the Relief testifies eloquently of the love and Societies of the stakes of Zion. For consideration your husbands extend yout faithfulness and leadership we RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE pray our Heavenly Father in the name of his Son that you may have increasing joy from your leadership duties and may earn the promise made to Relief Society members by GENERAL 815 the Prophet Joseph, "If you live up to these principles, how great and glorious will be your reward in the celestial kingdom." 'That this may be so, I pray. SESSION THURSDAY AFTERNOON, SEPTEMBER 29, 1949 Digest— Choose You Shis Day Evon W. Peterson HE hosts of heaven were assembled in that great council to listen to the voice of the Father as he told them of his plan to create an earth where his children could enter into their second estate, which was to take a body and fulfill the full measure of their creation. At that time the Father bestowed upon them the greatest of all gifts, the right to choose—to choose that day whom they would follow. In that assembly, naturally, there were some who were not as valiant as were others, yet they were all given their free agency to choose for themselves. That free agency has continued in mortality as a basic principle in the eternal law of progression. However, if we are to gain eternal life, we must be obedient to the laws of truth. Often in the midst of sorrow or trials that come into our lives or disasters that come upon the world, we ask, "Why does God allow it?" One writer said: If only we were honest with ourselves we would admit how unfair it is to blame the Lord. The simple truth is that mankind, not the Lord, is entirely responsible. These things are the direct result of abusing the most wonderful gift we have ever received from heaven—the gift of free-will. In the Book of Mormon we read where the Prophet Samuel was preaching to the Lamanites and he told them of the things that were to happen and the great blessings that were in store for those who would heed the teachings of the Lord, and then he pointed out the tribulations that would come to those who would not believe and he said: And now remember, remember, my brethren, that whosoever perisheth, perisheth unto himself and who doeth iniquity doeth it unto himself, for behold ye are free, ye are permitted to act for yourself, for behold God has given unto you a knowledge and he hath made you free. In our complex life today we are continually meeting new problems. Almost every day is a day of decisions—what to do, what choice to make. With our limited understanding we cannot make important decisions without guidance. There has never been a time when man needed more desperately the help of divine inspiration than he does today, and I know of no better way to secure this inspiration than by keeping the commandments of our Father in Heaven. Although the world is ever changing, the fundamental truths of our gospel are the same today as they the multitudes on the shores of Galilee. He marked the path and led the way, and as Latter-day Saints we have been given light and under. Standing of the road which leads to eternal life. Are we as parents heeding that counsel? Are we exercising our gift of choice in such a way that it will] assure the greatest happiness for ourselves and for our families? I recently read an article written by Elder Stephen L Richards in which he said: The homes which Produce real Latter. Day Saints shall be presided over and maintained by men of strength and cour. Age, of virtue and vision, and by women of tendemess, unselfishness and infinite patience and love. One of our responsibilities as parents is to help our children in mak. Ing important decisions in life. We May not be able to help a child solve his particular Problem, but we can help him to acquire the right attitude toward it and we can encourage him to go to his Heavenly Father for assistance, Youth is the seedtime of life, and if a child is to Teap an abundant harvest he must be taught to choose and sow those seeds that will develop a righteous life. We cannot compel a child to appreciate love and beauty. This appreciation only comes through association with the Home atmosphere js likely the most basic consideration in the development of youth. If the atmos. Phere is healthy and stimulating, the lives of family members who breathe it will likewise be healthy and vigorous, Our Relief Society lessons have taught us that too many today are content to remain on the fringe of righteousness, satisfied with the shel] When they could and should have the core. The worthwhile things of life lie ahead and only struggle can bring us to them. Those who are willing to exert the greater effort reach the greater heights. A man was traveling along a paved highway. The Pavement ended and there stretched before him as far as he could see a ditt road in very poor condition. Where the poor road began a large sign read "Choose your tut now for you will be in it for the next twenty miles," There are Many spiritual ruts along life's highway. Let us try to avoid them. The road to tighteousN€ss is upward and ahead. There are easier roads to travel, but there are none that will bring the supreme joy that comes from righteous liying. The degree of happiness that we may enjoy during our later years will not come by accident nor by good luck, as some may say, but it will be the result of the way we live each day. Let us also remember it is likely that we teach more by what we do RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE spiration of our Father in Heaven in guiding our children so that they may choose for themselves the better life. And in the words of Joshua 817 of old, let us say "Choose you this day whom ye will serve, but as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord." Digest— Cultivating Life s Gternal Values Mary J. Wilson S a text for my brief message I have taken a verse from the sixth section of the Doctrine and Covenants: Seek not for riches but for wisdom, and behold the mysteries of God shall be unfolded unto you, then shall you be made rich. Behold, he that hath eternal life is rich. The most important responsibility resting upon any individual is to build a worthwhile and meaningful life. 'This objective is not achieved in a day, a week, or a year. With every person is born the God-given assignment to build a life. What, then, are the materials we should use in building a worthwhile and meaningful life? America's great inspirational poet, Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, caught the vision: For the structure that we raise Time is with materials filled, Our todays and yesterdays Are the blocks with which we build. Nothing enduring can be built without a pattern or plan. We must have purpose and direction in our building. What is the great plan by which we shape our lives? We, as Relief Society sisters, know the answer, for it is to know and to do the will of our Heavenly Father. Our time, our energy, and our means are limited, so we are of necessity confronted with the responsibility of making choices. How necessary it is, therefore, that we develop a pattern of life containing imperishable, eternal values, and that we build them into the structure of our individual lives. May I suggest some of the basic soul values which must go into the great edifice of eternal life? Some of the eternal qualities for which we must strive are sincere and abiding faith, interest in and love for our fellow men, and sincere devotion to our Heavenly Father's plan for the achievement of eternal life. Faith is that which gives us vision to carry on, and confidence in ultimate success, even in the face of present discouragement. In I Nephi, 17th chapter, we learn that Nephi was commanded to build a ship. His brothers laughed at him and ridiculed him, but Nephi said unto them: If God had commanded me to. Do all things I could do them. If he should command me that I should say unto this water, be thou earth, it should be earth; and if I should say it, it would be done. Through faith we have the power to be selective. We may know the wheat from the chaff. There is no more important element in building faith and cultivating the other qualities of eternal life than prayer. It is a means of getting closer to God; through this medium we learn his will. Yet too often our prayers are uttered as a matter of habit and routine. But the prayers that will enrich our souls 818 and give us new vision and faith are the prayers through which we open our souls completely to God with the faith and confidence that he will give us strength to face and overcome the things that are keeping us from achieving true spiritual growth. Faith and prayer, however, cannot function in our lives in a truly effective way merely as abstract principles. In James, we are told that "faith without works is dead." We must therefore reflect our faith in our service and love for our fellow men. One of the greatest statements in the Bible concerning the Savior is, he "went about doing good." When service is mentioned, we are prone to cast about for an opportunity to serve in a big way in a remote place. Our tendency is to forget the "Acres of Diamonds" lying about our own doors. In the same community, or on the same block, or perhaps in our own families, there are those who are discouraged and impoverished for the want of words of hope and love. There are those who are spiritually sick as well as mentally and physically ill. On the whole, our fields of service lie within areas about our own homes. A Relief Society visiting teacher, on one of her visits, found a sister crushed with grief. 'This afflicted sister had passed through much sorrow, and she had lost faith in her Heavenly Father. 'The visiting teacher had a newly found interest in this unfortunate sister. 'The teacher visited her new friend often, and helped her to get new interests in life; helped her to reRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1949 kindle faith in herself and faith in immortality. 'This is only one example of true love and service that comes from our visiting teachers, but there are thousands of such cases where people have helped within our Relief Society organization. Latter-day Saints have a marvelous concept of the meaning and necessity of growth through acquisition of knowledge. The Lord has declared that the "glory of God is intelligence," and that "man is saved no faster than he gains knowledge." Then again in the Doctrine and Covenants, section 130:18-19, we read, "Whatever principle of intelligence we attain unto in this life, it will rise with us in the resurrection." How can we, then, cultivate knowledge and intelligence in our quest for eternal values? First, we must be awakened to the need for growth, and then we shall find the means and opportunities for development. We not only gain knowledge through the study of great books, but through prayer we also find the ways and means of development. Let us not waste time. Benjamin Franklin wrote, "Dost thou love life? Then do not squander time, for that is what life is made of." One often hears this expression, "If I just had time to do this or that," but we overlook what can be accomplished by small snatches of time. Be ever alert to your opportunities. Study, seek good companions, insist upon filling your life with eternal riches. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE You have a great birthright, you live in a land "choice above all other lands." You have accepted as a pattern of life the gospel of Jesus Christ. Your opportunities are unbounded. But only you can fashion your individual lives into glorious, 819 eternal mansions filled with the eternal light of truth. May God bless all of us that we may get the vision necessary to see life at its best and give us strength to live according to an eternal pattern. Digest—Prepare Shy Heart Leone O. Jacobs NE of the most glorious truths of life is that we can always rise above our present level. Wouldn't life be discouraging if, once we found ourselves involved in unworthy conduct, we couldn't pull ourselves up, and out, and on to better ways? But we don't have to remain as we are. Each day offers a new beginning. | An old man was once reviewing his life to a friend: "When I was thirty I was just no good—no good to anybody, not even to myself. Then one day I had the urge, the desire, to right about face. I decided I was going to change my direction, and from that moment I have led a life I'm proud of." A young college girl paused one day in her round of excitement and said, "I guess I'm going with the wrong crowd. I don't think I want to go where they're going." She didn't go that way. A mother of three husky little boys had never deemed it necessary to give them any religious instruction. Oh, yes, she fed them wellbalanced meals, kept them as clean as little boys can be kept, and saw to it that bedtime was strictly observed. But one day she pondered to herself, "I wonder if I'm a really good mother. I guess there's more to rearing a family than merely feeding and clothing them. I seem to have time for my bridge club and for social engagements in the evenings, but maybe I'm neglecting some important points." She did something about it. Lives can be changed, can't they? The course of our lives can be rerouted. But how? Let's call it preparing the heart. Well, what does preparing one's heart mean? It means checking up on one's self, scrutinizing one's daily life and evaluating what is there—what is worthy and what is unworthy of continuing. It means ridding one's self of bitterness and selfishness. It means humbling one's self before the Lord. It means complete forgiveness of all wrongs inflicted on us, either real or imagined. It means opening wide one's heart to righteousness—putting one's self in an attitude to receive good. It means planning one's course differently. Picture in your mind a field, plowed and harrowed from end to end, leveled perfectly, weeds burned down along the fence line, everything possible done that is conducive to the growth of good seed. The field is ready, waiting to receive that good seed. We can put our hearts in that very same condition, in an 820 attitude of receptiveness to good. We can plow up the old, useless habits and smooth down the rough places of error. We hear someone say, "I wish I could enjoy working in the Church as you do. It seems to make you so happy." They can. It's all in the set of the heart. It's all in preparing the heart to want that sort of living. And then we hear people say, too, "But I don't see how you get time for it all." In one of our recent Relief Society conventions, a bishop said something profoundly impotrtant for us to remember. He said, "If you're too busy to serve the Lord, you're too busy." Yes, if we are too busy to serve the Lord, then we are too busy doing other things that aren't so worthwhile. In the Old Testament we read this: "For Ezra had prepared his heart to seek the law of the Lord and to do it." What a lovely ideal for us to follow. And in the Doctrine and Covenants (132:3) the Lord said to the Prophet Joseph Smith: - "Therefore, prepare thy heart to receive and obey the instructions which I am about to give unto you." I think to prepare one's heart is perhaps the most decisive point in progress toward any goal. Carrying out one's plans and good intentions, of course, is important, too, but the action is comparatively easy once the heart is thoroughly prepared for that course. As the poem says, "It's the set of the soul that determines the goal." So far as living the gospel is concerned, I firmly believe we can do the things we want to do, if the desire is strong enough. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1949 In our Relief Society organization we have much help in preparing our hearts to do good. Our wonderful lessons and work meeting activities give us great help. But we not only have help in preparing our own hearts, but we have the opportunity to help others in preparing their hearts. Visiting teaching gives us a fine opportunity of turning the hearts of inactive Church members, little by little, back to activity. It ls within our power to show the joy of service and the beauties of the gospel to those who are engrossed in worldly affairs. A bishop recently made a special plea that Relief Society members put their arms around our sisters who have drifted away and estranged themselves from the Church because they have married outsiders. Through sheer love and personal interest, we should endeavor to draw them to our organization and thus to activity in the gospel. Living the gospel means sharing it with as many others as possible, doesn't it? And visiting teaching ls indeed a challenge in sharing the gospel. 'True, every home cannot be approached in the same manner, and this is why visiting teaching requires such thought, such preparation, tact, and prayer. Remember, if you are too busy to serve the Lord, you are too busy. Prepare your hearts to seek the law of the Lord and to do it, and in every way possible help others to prepare their hearts for nighteousness. May our Heavenly Father help us to set our course in the right direction and follow it with determination. Ready for Christmas Ora Pate Stewart T was three days before Christmas, but Emmy was ready. Always, the day after Christmas, she could be seen crocheting a fine edge on a white handkerchief, pulling threads on a scarf for a bit of Swedish darning, or sewing small cross stitches into a sampler or cushion—so that she'd be ready by the next Christmas. "It's not like I make a burden of it," she would explain, and her sharp dark eyes would sparkle with spirit. "I may not be so young, but I still enjoy the giving end," she would continue. And sometimes she would add, "There are richer folks, but giving has never been a burden to me." It was true. She was old, if you looked in the family Bible and counted up her eighty-six years. And she could have been considered poor, if you insisted that old coal stoves and worn linoleum floors were the badges of that modest economy. But she gave, and the burden was never evident. She didn't give just to the needy. I'm sure I didn't need the towel she gave me one year with crocheted colored flowers spilling out from a crocheted basket. And yet, every time I come across that towel, now faded and frayed, something pleasant rises up within me like the scent of old spice. It puts the world in better tune, and points up the corners of my spirits. I needed that, and I guess she knew it. Notwithstanding her years and the circle of braided white hair that framed her slender face, she was Emmy to everyone. Tots were coached to address her as Grandma Emmy, and youthful friends sometimes referred to her as Aunt Emmy. But Emmy she was, and only the postman and the tax collector shared any dim remembrance of a surname. With her lived her widowed daughter, who had made room for her son and his wife, whose three children had been born there. And _ hers was the only house I have ever seen homing four generations in_harmony. Emmy was not wholly crippled. Her hands were gnarled with arthritis, and there were indications that other junctions of her anatomy were similarly afflicted. But she had maintained a discipline over tightening joints, and the pattern of her artistic soul was still transmitted straight and true through her crooked fingers. Years before a stroke had invaded one side of her face, clasping one corner of her mouth in a perpetual smile. "T'm so thankful I wasn't frowning when it hit," she would explain. "Whenever my mother used to catch me pouting she would say, 'Now, Emmy, what if your face should freeze that way? Wouldn't you be a pretty sight!' So now I have to keep a smile on the other side to keep my mouth from looking like a pretzel." From then on I watched her to see if she ever frowned so that I could see her pretzel mouth. But the smile held on. "Besides," she would continue, Page 821 822 "suppose the old striker should come back for the other side? They say if he comes once he will come again. I'll have to be ready." I should have recognized the ominousness of that possibility; but the way Emmy put it there was nothing ominous. And we all smiled with her. S° the morning her great-granddaughter came for me and said Grandma Emmy wanted me to come and get my Christmas present I was somewhat astonished. "Tt's three days before Christmas," I protested, "and besides, I haven't got Emmy's present finished yet." I was making her a scrapbook of poems and proverbs that I thought she might like. I used to read to her sometimes and felt we had a secret bond that the others didn't share. "She didn't say to bring her present," the child rejoiced, "she said for you to come and get yours." I gathered up the unfinished scrapbook and went to get my coat. "She said for you to bring your ukulele, too," the child continued. "She wants some