d, the poetry well chosen, and we do enjoy the editorial pages immensely. —Clara Horne Park San Mateo, California I have read and enjoyed the Magazine since I could read and have received so much help and inspiration from it. | couldn't keep house or rear my family without its teachings. —Mrs. Dora B. Wiitaker Ellensburg, Washington Page 786 Many Relief Society Magazine contributors are represented among the two hundred poets in volume III of Utah Sings, recently published in Salt Lake City, by the Utah Poetry Society. Maryhale Woolsey acted as general chairman. It was interesting to me to note that the following contributors to The Relief Society Magazine acted as heads of publication committees: Ora Lee Parthesius, Pansye H. Powell, Ouida Johns Pedersen, Ruth H. Chadwick, and Eva Willes Wangsgaard. The art work was done by Lael W. Hill, also a contributor to the Magazine. —RMrs. Kate P. Jensen Sandy, Utah Always I enjoy The Relief Society Magazine, all of it, but I have especially enjoyed "First Ladies of Our Land" (July and September 1953, by Elsie C. Carroll) and "Portraits of the Signers of the Constitution: of the United States" (October 1953). In all my teaching expetience or my student days, I have never found anything as informative and _interesting. Also I have enjoyed the articles on the life of President David O. McKay (September, October, November, and December 1953). The accompanying pictures are priceless. I could say much about the beauty of each poem and story. My teen-age daughter surely enjoyed "Special for Redheads" (by Hazel K. Todd, July, August, and September 1953). —Mabel Law Atkinson Dayton, Idaho Frances C. Yost, well known to readers of The Relief Society Magazine, has again been honored by the National Federation of Press Women. Her story "The Wearing of the Gay," which appeared in the March 1952 Magazine, was awarded second place in the Press Women's an nual contest. This is the second time Mrs. Yost has received this honor, both times with a Relief Society Magazine story
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford. - - - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - First Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - - Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering -. - - - Secretary-Treasurer Achsa E. Paxman Leone G. Layton Lillie C. Adams Alta J. Vance Mary G. Judd Blanche B. Stoddard Ethel C. Smith Christine H. Robinson Anna B. Hart Evon W. Peterson Louise W. Madsen Alberta H. Christensen Edith S. Elliott Leone O. Jacobs Aleine M. Young Nellie W. Neal Florence J. Madsen Mary J. Wilson Josie B. Bay RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - -— - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - ~ - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford
Vol. 36 DECEMBER 1949 No. 12
Contents
The Prophet's Sailing Orders to Relief Society by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. 796
Joy in Service by Counselor Marianne C. Sharp 798
Introduction to Lesson Courses by Counselor Marianne C. Sharp 800
Relief Society in the Lives of Our Sisters in Europe by Nida A. Taggart 800
Hints on Lesson Development by Leone O. Jacobs 802
Fostering Creative Homemaking Arts by Leone G. Layton 803
"With Liberty and Justice for All" by Edith S. Elliott 804
"Unwashen Hands" Versus Hearts by Spencer W. Kimball 804
Report and Official Instructions by President Belle S. Spafford 807
Meeting Our Obligations by Counselor Velma N. Simonsen 810
Joy in Leadership by Counselor Marianne C. Sharp 812
Choose You This Day by Evon W. Peterson 815
Cultivating Life's Eternal Values by Mary J. Wilson 817
Prepare Thy Heart by Leone O. Jacobs 819
Ready for Christmas by Ora Pate Stewart 821
Joanna (Conclusion) by Margery S. Stewart 828
Sixty Years Ago 824
Woman's Sphere by Ramona W. Cannon 825
Editorials: Christmas Down the Years; The 120th Semi-Annual Church Conference; Litter on Temple Square by Marianne C. Sharp 826
March Anniversary Work Meeting Luncheon by Christine Eaton 835
From Near and Far 864
Ideas for Christmas Decoration by Mary Grant Judd 832
A Santa Claus Cookie Box by Rachel K. Laurgaard 836
An Ever-Burning Christmas Candle by Rachel K. Laurgaard 838
A Letter from Mother by Clara Horne Park 838
Theology: "Jesus Returns to the Temple Daily" by Don B. Colton 839
Visiting Teacher Messages: "For This Cause" by Mary Grant Judd 842
Work Meeting: Boys' Clothing by Jean Ridges Jennings 844
Literature: John Bunyan by Briant S. Jacobs 845
Social Science: The Obligations of Citizenship by G. Homer Durham 851
Optional Lesson: The Counselors to President Heber J. Grant (Continued) by T. Edgar Lyon 855
The Flight—Frontispiece by Dorothy J. Roberts 795
"Dimensions," by Della Adams Leitner, 827
"The Year Is Done," by Eunice J. Miles, 835
"Auditor," by Grace Sayre, 837
"Substitute," by Thelma Ireland, 850
"Blizzard," by Evelyn Fjeldsted, 864
"In This Be Lavish," by Iris W. Schow, 862
"A Christmas Song," by Irene Storey, 862
"Holy Night," by Christie Lund Coles, 863
"Snowflakes," by Elise Maness, 863
"Remnant," by Marvin Jones, 863
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 38-2741: Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year: foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 8, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.
Layaway for Christmas Now! DOMESTICS— Downstairs Store Set $) 98 Sink your feet in the soft warmth of this heavily tufted Bath Mat... Rubberized back prevents slipping! In White, Blue, Green, Rose, Peach, Red, Gray, and Gold. 22 x 34. Seat Cover to match. Aes. Mail Orders to MARGOT MANNERS Enclose 19c postage for each set ordered! GIFT With a USEFUL FUTURE Bath Mat
A Perry Picture From a Painting by Bouguereau (1825-1906) FLIGHT INTO EGYPT
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE VOL. 36, NO. 12 DECEMBER 1949 The Flight Dorothy J. Roberts the angel of the Lord appeareth to Joseph in a dream, saying, Arise, and take the young child and his mother, and flee into Egypt.... To shadowed Egypt from the starlit manger, There hide your infant from the Herod blow; Cold here the blade and sharp the steel of danger, But the Nile will remember only Pharaoh. Skirt the plains where sacred sandals wandered Lost in the wilderness of long ago; Mark by a new light the sea's arm, sundered, And the broken thread of the Jordan's flow. Where dim altars breast the moon's pale weather, Where legends lived before the parchment scroll, And your feet will tread the sands where many another Walked sunrise on the pathway of the soul. Their sleeping legions in your mind will waken, When you shall see the past with visioned eye, The mighty monuments by years unshaken, And hear again the thunder over Sinai. His promised light will lengthen by the sedges— Where Miriam put a cradle-craft to sea— Till it shall burn, the high noon of the ages, Its golden zenith over Galilee. The Cover: The Salt Lake Temple in Winter, Photograph by L. V. McNeely The Prophet's Sailing Orders to Relief Society President J]. Reuben Clark, Jr. Of the First Presidency [Address delivered at the afternoon session of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, September 29, 1949.] ISTERS of the Relief Society: It is a pleasure to be with you, even though I have to talk. I have greatly enjoyed the meeting so far, and the instructions, the advice, and the counsel that have been given to you. You have a great mission, as you are told on all occasions, but you cannot be told too often, nor can you too earnestly remember it. I have always been impressed with the introduction that Webster made in his reply to Hayne. I have not read it for years. It is not wholly applicable, but at the beginning of his reply, which dealt with fundamental principles of constitutional government, he said that when a ship had been on the ocean, driven by winds and storms for many days, the mariner always took the first occasion when the heavens were visible, to take his bearings and find out where he was. Now, you have not been driven and wind-tossed since your organization. You have had the guidance of the prophets of the Lord, who have, from time to time, given you the instructions which they felt you should have. Nevertheless, remembering that introduction, I decided that I would go back to the beginning of your organization and acquaint myself again, somewhat, Page 796 with the circumstances under which you were organized. As you know, at your first meeting you were organized, on March 17th of 1842. During that summer, and until August 31, the Prophet met with the sisters rather frequently. On two or three occasions he preached really great sermons and he laid down for you the course which he felt you should follow. As I read a little something of the history of those times, I found that the summer of 1842 was one of the most difficult summers for him, personally, through which he lived. The infamous Bennett was in Nauvoo stirring up all the trouble he knew how to stir, and he was a good stirrer. [he Prophet was driven almost, apparently, to his wit's ends to know what to do. Bennett left Nauvoo sometime during the summer. During this same summer the enemies of the Church, and _particularly of the Prophet, in Missouri, sought to involve the Prophet in an attempt that was made upon the life of ex-governor Boggs. It went so far that they finally secured papers, extradition they called them, though not technically so, extradition papers to get him from Nauvoo back into Missouri, where, of course, they would have made short shrift of him if they could have gotten him O ster Spafford Tead howing What at summer jp 4volding the the home I NECEssity o Teturning ¢. Hat is Teally a Serious thing € did avoid t. Il she Tead about that, as Well as t was during alj of this trouble other things, was true € ate losin that he ganized this Relief Society the art o making homes. Our chi] and I felt aS I read the account of dren, untaught jn h affairs of Is talks to + ©m, what he told t em, home, Of course do not know how felt that } had turneg tO the sis. To make ime. And yoy Relief Crs for the "nsolation, for the upSociety members must bring into lift of Which he Stood in Such sq th home, your homes, all that Need at that time, should be there, SUPPOse T do Not need to tel] I had thought, but the time wil] YOU sisters tha} YOu ate the anchors nop Permit, that 7 ight read ou which hold ys Men moored here me Of those ear] Sermons of the we ought t Ber a PPose I neeg Prop et, some of things Which Not tell yoy that you a OUT comhe said, about Which he aught. And Ort and our Consolatio I SUPPose J 4M not syy » Sister Spa Ord, but I do not tO remin you that that Ou mig We look to YOu and have to look nd the "NCOouragemen} Ose things Which he g; Which Maintain life, Id not set ftom the € do not brethren, They were falling, 59 to with you, nor with Speak, on all Sides, Hj > And s0 We Must look eq f,; tO you, and do t 798 to build a home where love Shall be, serenity, peace, quiet, culture, and all the things that go to make a home. I hope the Lord will bless you in your labors. I hope he will bring to each of you a realization of what you ought to be, and what you ought to do. And do not try to be anything else but good mothers and good homemakers, for that will exhaust all the time, all the effort, and pay the greatest dividends of anything you can do in the world. I rejoice in being with you. I pray God to bless you, to bless you who preside and you who serve, and it is as blessed to serve as it is to preside, and with infinitely less reRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1949 sponsibility. The humblest man, and the humblest woman, doing his duty in the place in which he is called to work, will deserve and receive just as much reward as the man who so serves and so acts in the highest position. The Lord always used the poor of the earth to iL lustrate how men should live. Again, may God bless you and be with you through the years to come, give you the vision of the true homemaker, that you will be able to save by this course, not alone Zion, but the world. And that is your destiny, and Ours, to save the world. God bless you, I ask, in the name of Jesus. Amen. The Annual General Relief Society Conference September 28 and 20, 1949 Counselor Marianne C. Sharp, Chairman, Conference Committee ciety conference for 1949 was held Wednesday and Thursday, September 28, 29, at Salt Lake City with President Belle S. Spafford presiding at all the sessions. All stakes of the Church were Tepresented with the exception of Oahu and Spokane. The mission Relief Society presidents were not in attend. Ance at the conference, but district and branch officers of many missions in the United States were present. The meetings on Wednesday consisted of presentations of the educational courses, including a discussion on work meeting activities conducted, consecutively, in the AsTce annual general Relief Sosembly Hall by the respective chairmen. The congregational singing was led by Sister Florence J. Madsen with Sister Beverly B. Glauser at the organ. Four special departments were conducted simultaneously from 2:45 to 3:45 in the afternoon for secretaries, Indian relations, Relief Society Magazine, and music. Wednesday night the annual teception was held in the Lafayette Ballroom, Hotel Utah, for stake and mission officers and board members. On Thursday morning the Officers Meeting was held in the Assembly Hall. The Temple View Stake Singing Mothers sang three beauti- RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE - Aaams Fine Photography THE GENERAL OFFICERS OF RELIEF SOCIETY Left to right: First Counselor Marianne C. Sharp; President Belle S. Spafford; Second Counselor Velma N. Simonsen; Secretary-Treasurer Margaret C. Pickering. Ful songs under the direction of Naomi B. Hahn, with DeEtte B. Stewart at the piano and Sue E. Christensen at the organ. The Thursday afternoon session was held in the Tabernacle, open members of the general board— Sisters Evon W. Peterson, Mary J Wilson and Leone O. Jacobs also addressed the sisters at this closing session. 'The Singing Mothers of the Jordan Valley Region and the to the general public. President George Albert Smith and President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Both addressed the great congregation of sisters from all over the Church. President Belle S. Spafford and three other four Provo stakes, under the direction of Sister Florence J. Madsen, added to the sacredness of the meeting by rendering four beautiful songs. Brother Frank Asper was at the organ. The talk ""Woman's Role as Homemaker" by President Belle S. Spafford, delivered at the Thursday afternoon session in the Tabernacle, has been published in the November 1949 issue of The Relief Society Magazine. A digest of certain features of the conference is presented in the following pages of this issue of the Magazine. Because of the limitation of space some addresses will be published in later issues as follows: The address by President George Albert Smith will appear in the January issue; that of Elder Benson in the February issue; and that of Bishop Wirthlin in the May issue of The Relief Society Magazine. Copies of the talks "Theology Department in Union Meeting," by Ethel C. Smith; "Universal Appeal of Visiting Teacher Messages,' by Mary G. Judd; and digests of the talks '""The Worth of The Relief Society Magazine to Latter-day Saint Women" by Elder Lynn McKinlay and "The Value of Great Literature and How to Gain an Appreciation of It" by Elder Briant S. Jacobs, have been sent to the stakes in mimeograph form. Following is a schedule of the meetings: DEPARTMENTAL MEETINGS—Wednesday, September 28, 1949 Morning—io-12 Noon—Assembly Hall Bt a Ethel C. Smith, Chairman 800 Bs > Work Meeting 2 2000cccee eee eee Afternoon—1: 30-2:30—Assembly Hall Visiting 'Teaching -: e.0- 0 Social Science -2 0..0c--c2ee0-ee-eeeeee — 2245-3745 Indian Relations Secretaries Relief Society Magazine Music RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1949 <i Leone O. Jacobs, Chairman wooo Leone G. Layton, Chairman ty G. Judd, Chairman Edith S. Elliott, Chairman Thursday, September 29, 1949 Officers Meeting—Assembly Hall Morning—lo0-12 Noon General Session—Tabernacle Afternoon—z2:00-4:00 <= DEPARTMENTAL MEETING MORNING SESSION-SEPTEMBER 28, 1949 Digest—Untroduction to Lesson Courses Counselor Marianne C. Sharp DUCATION is an important part of the life of a Latter-day Saint. The Lord has said "It is impossible for a man to be saved in ignorance" and "Whatever principle of intelligence we attain unto in this life, it will mse with us in the resurrection. And if a person gains more knowledge and intelligence in this life through his diligence and obedience than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come." The general board is proud of the courses which are designed to be presented this coming year. We feel that they are of vital interest and importance in the lives of our members, and trust that you sisters of the stakes will see that the true purpose of each course is attained in the lessons as taught in the wards. We wish to express appreciation to the writers of our lessons who give fully and freely of their great talents for the upbuilding of the sisters of Relief Society. 'Their reward, sisters, lies in the benefit and enlightenment which come to you and the other women of the Church, who study these excellent and outstanding lessons. Digest— Relief Society in the Lives of Our Sisters in &urope Nida A. Taggart Former President, Swiss-Austrian Mission Relief Society ask for the Spirit of the Lord and for an interest in your faith and prayers that I may be able to tell you what I have in my heart. I was able, from my mission, to gain a deeper testimony of the di- RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE vinity of Relief Society work and the effectiveness that it has in the lives of our sisters in Europe. It has been the shining light in most of their lives. These sisters in many of those lands where women have been given few, if any, privileges, have found in the Relief Society work their place in the sun. They have the spirit of mercy. They visit the sick and they never go empty-handed, if it is only a flower they take with them. They have little money to give, but they give their time and their love and all of their effort. They love the lessons. 'They were thrilled to know that they were studying the same lessons that you are studying here. 'They have some very fine class leaders. Everyone takes part. You know that love is the foundation of democracy, and, in these troubled times in Europe, what greater gift could we give those women than our wonderful Relief Society program and to bring them the gospel of Jesus Christ? Never in the history of our mission have the doors been opened to us as they are at present. In Germany, Sister Wunderlich is doing a magnificent work in bringing order out of chaos. She has brought those sisters together. When they had a convention in Frankfurt, they displayed twentyfive thousand articles of clothing that their sisters had made out of materials from the welfare clothing that needed re-making. They were feeling that they, too, had their welfare project, and they are beginning to be able to help themselves. The Swiss sisters were not hurt 801 by the war, yet they were very active and eager to help their less fortunate neighbors. 'They gathered clothing and food and gave their precious food coupons in order to send food and clothing to Germany and Austria. Every member child in Austria was brought into Switzerland and cared for in the homes of our sisters. 'They were cared for from three to six months, fed and clothed and rehabilitated. It was a marvelous thing for our sisters to do. In that first winter, the winter of 1947, Our wonderful Relief Society president in Vienna had a little plot of ground an hour and a half out from the center of the city. She traveled out there every day to take care of that plot of ground herself. She planted and harvested those potatoes and she harvested enough to help every family in that branch. She said to me: "Sister 'Taggart, it was like the story of the loaves and the fishes. I have never harvested as many potatoes before or since." As mission wives in Europe, the wives of the mission presidents are doing a magnificent job. I would like to pay tribute to them here. Those sisters in Europe would love to join the body of the Church. I think in every one of their hearts is that wish sometime to come to Zion, but next to that is the thought that they are a part of this great Relief Society organization, that they are doing all they can to further the work of the Lord in those countries. May he bless them with everything they need, that they may have courage and faith, whatever may come, I pray. Ctober Jes. - The additional] li t acquaintance With spel relative to things." Even a s]j € to lS indeed Satismg. There will b | Cty likely whet for more, PPortunity tying in SOspel Punciples also In ther lessons Another Suggestion: t scat © ate confident that this Course €r your Munition too far. Don' In glish literature 1 TY to cover 5 uch Material that val you can Only flit from one +h; another g will prove of alue to the women of € thing to of the Church having them req and Study Justice, great literature, that by so doing they to leave one Well-deNOt Waste time ON inferior Tead ned Impression With your Class Ing Materia] expect jt members than 0 leave S€vera] hazy, "NCOurage + m to Upervise Confused one Ore closely the Teading ha its of ake generous se € text Cr children and provide them CTe ls muc valuable bac groun ith worthwhi] literature In their Material in jp Own hom Ne Project for O S€ maps and Pictures freely, Re Relief Society hers Would be to member, Visual aids € Just as im. Naugurate the abit of Teading aloud Portant jn adult teach 48 in chi] together jn the hom This Could eaching. The Natio! Geog aphic wel] be NCOrporated to the amily Or April 1949, seems have been Hour Program, Fo, cvery member Planned Purposely fo, this Ourse the family, of Suitable &€, to take C contains Much excel] € materia] turn in réq Ing aloud from some and Pictures Pertinent Ngtish Iterary Mast Tpiece d Literatur, For the €sson the ficial Page go? Chairman Wor Meeting Committee PLANNING and Conducting Work leisure momen meetings which Sisters wil] of effor fee] they 'nNot afford + Miss is g teal challen TS, lored des &n besides struction jp Cedlework and cro. Nd housekeepers has et skills <TC aie bagi Tules 4 place in this day's TOogtam, that can famed which govern may have alm st as m ny different beauty, both of form and Color. The Ings to q 48 there are women | vely crafts hich hay lived so Present, since the Tange of Interests long Should hot be forgott among oyr Sisters j SO wide and edica] Clence, MOreover, tel]. Their heeds so diverse. US Of the therapeutic alue 0 work ¢ are very Proud of the fine inIng with the hands. Struction Which has been Siven You stake leaders "annot plan for Tough th Suggested sewing the Wards but you can plan with Course, JF there is q Ingle young them Fy your ward Visits you woman in Your wards who does not know the Condition o the various feel able to Sew for her children, yoy Wards. You can hose which need to "lCourage d Mstruct her ack by Suggestions and demonstra The pride Of creative COMP tig 7 your union ceting depart. Ment and the Pleasure of Seeing your Ment children Well dresseg by the labor and skill of your o intangibles but t Can suggest better oy. Nization of the work a ry Nd ways to wn han Interest and bring in NeW women, e 0 less req] You can help raise tandards. Sugthan the 4 ual saving in dollars ang new ideas In andwork and ents which thi, art Brings ¢ h omemaking, ang cal] ome, Work Jeetings should CO serve th attention to NE articles or books on be Planned € home In ey ome man 4sement and ho © decoration You e Way poscan stimulate the wards to do sea. Sible. Ag YOu check oye he achal Planning. You can be contivities of any homemak you be. Stantly aware of trends Nd new 1 to see th POssibilities Of eac Ideas 'that will helpful] 0 you work day > Nomemaker buyMembers er, bookkeep > decorator COok, Sisters, | Pray our Heavenly Fa laundress, dish her, telephone OPther that he will oy; © us, that he €rator, ther, seq stress, "Se, will give us ingenuity d Imaging. With garde ing "anning thrown fon that we May mak homemak In besid Ing attractive to OUr Sisters that C is natural for women to Want we may foster the Ove for Creative tO create beauty With their hands. Skills, that hroy Our efforts Almost ey woman has som, thing Latter-day aint homes m SHE Dicks y and works On in her better pj their better S to have 800d govern In this World of Ours Where the Ment—one that jis fair, Progressive thing ve seem have th wena 'S Confusion, © need the suidance and dependab] 4nd help of O "avenly Father * 134th section of the Doctrine along Politica] a, Well as Spititua] and Ovenants js a dec atation of lines S given us the Precious What The Chure f esus Christ of gift of freedo: € must guard jt Latter-qy Saints believes to rte know that "eternal vigilance js ASPects of 4 mode] Sovernment. It the Ptice of liberty," Sters, that you yOur stakes, | Can see that there wil] Can catch the Vision of Ss happy Tesults, | Work 4mong the Lamanite Sisters OPe We wil] Not be too much and that you will be able to 48s bound by patterns. The regular pat the vision and the enthusiasm °n to tern of One Relief Society 4 week © sisters with Whom you Work, need not be followed. The course €n all o YOu return to your of gt dy must be adjusted to needs homes, if y INspire another fifty The In lan work IS mor Or less of °r a hundred nN IN each 4M experiment yet. We wi Page 804 RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE to get the benefit of your suggestions also, as you find effective ways of teaching. Last month, in our meeting in the Temple, President Clark made the statement that he had spent several years down in Mexico among the Lamanites, the pure-blooded Indians, and also the Mexicans. He found that they have a greater discernment than we do, generally. If you think with just an outward show of friendliness, you can go into their lives, you are badly mistaken. An Indian can see through you clear into the heart, and he knows whether you are friend or foe. Now sisters, the most important thing in this whole Indian program, as I see it, is education, divided into two phases. The first phase is education of the Latter-day Saints at home, some of whom need their hearts opened, cleansed and purged and purified and made ready to accept the program. And phase two is the proselyting of the Lamanites themselves. The scriptures are filled with prophecies in connection with this people. Why, there are few subjects on which there is so much revealed. The prophecies must, and will be fulfilled. They can be fulfilled only by our help. We must go out and do this work. Now, we have tried segregation of the Indians in this nation for a hundred years. It did not work. Segregation has been almost a complete failure. Many of them are still "blanket" Indians,-after a century of segregation. The program of the Church must be one of assimilation and integration. We must take them into our arms, into our 805 hearts, into our Relief Societies, into our sacrament meetings, into our Sunday Schools, into our Primaries, into our Mutual, and into our hearts. I am reminded of what Peter said. You remember he thought the gospel was for the Jews only. The Lord revealed that the gospel was for gentiles as well, but the Jews could hardly believe it. 'They, including the apostles, had grown up with the thought all those years, that the gospel was for the Hebrews and that the Samaritans and all the other groups of those Gentiles along the Mediterranean coast were not clean. And then you will remember in the vision Peter saw all the reptiles and the beasts of every kind, and Peter said "... God hath shewed me that I should not call any man common or unclean." I think the Lord put the reptiles and the snakes and the beasts all in this vision, so that Peter would know the extent of the inclusion and that there was no one to whom the gospel should not come, even the poor and the degraded and the unclean, and so he finally received his testimony. And he went about preaching the gospel to the gentiles. Some of his own brethren, even in the Council of the Twelve, began to argue with him, and finally Peter said to them: "What was I, that I could withstand God?" Now, sisters, the Lord has shown that he is willing to accept the Indian. Who are you and who am I, that we can withstand God? 'The Book of Mormon and the Doctrine and Covenants are full of revelations indicating that these people must receive the gospel and that 806 God does and we must, accept them. Sisters, we must come to a program of assimilation and integration, and we must learn the lesson that Peter learned, and that others have had to learn. "Unwashen hands" is no crime. It is a crime to have unwashen souls. You remember how the Pharisees, with vile hearts, would not eat with Christ's disciples with "unwashen hands." If you had committed no greater sin than these particular Indians have who are living today, the sin of being descendants of those who sinned, how would you feel about it? Would you cry for deliverance? Would you grope for light? Would you think that perhaps you had paid your penalty and that now you should be given consideration and brought back into the world of the living? In today's paper, there is the testimony of Sister Sundust. May I quote just a few lines from her. She said: I am proud to be a Latter-day Saint. You know, in my years there is always fear and doubt, not only me, but the tribe of the Maricopa Indians living eighteen miles from here between the Gila and Salt Rivers. There were other missionaries that came there, but they didn't go far. They don't tell the right way nor the truth and I drift away. From there on there was always doubt in my mind whether there was a living God and his Son, Jesus Christ. And then, finally, one day your people came around. And now she is a member of the Church, with her children. "THE Indians are calling for the gospel; they are begging for it. Bear your testimony to them and the Lord will magnify your testimony, and it will be recorded in the heavRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1949 ens for the angels to look upon, and it will bear fruits. Your testimonies and the simple explanation of the gospel of Jesus Christ will win many converts. Remember this, sisters: If the Indians had all that was rightfully theirs they would not be where they are and we would not be where we are. Remember that. We are here through the grace of God, and do not forget it. 'The Lord gave us to share an inheritance with the Indians in this glorious land which is choice above all other lands in all the world. But it is ours only on the condition, as I see it, that we do our part in seeing that these people come into the Church. What the Lamanite needs is opportunity. The only difference between us and the Indian is opportunity. Give them an opportunity, sisters, so that they, too, can enjoy the blessings that you do. And take this message back to your people in the stakes, that they leave off their racial prejudice. Racial prejudice is of the devil. Racial prejudice is of ignorance. There is no place for it in the gospel of Jesus Christ. I have read to you some of the scriptures indicating this. Now, sisters, I could talk to you for hours about the problems and destinies of these people who occupy so much of the thoughts of my working hours and even share in my dreams of the night, but may I leave this one thought: The Lamanite has suffered much and long for the sins of his fathers far beyond the third or fourth generation. He is now responsive to the gospel and is entitled to it. He will not receive it without RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE our help. We must not fail him. We must accept, fraternize, and fellowship him, and cease to spurn and hiss him. And I say it again and again to all of us, as did Peter, who are we that we can withstand the plan 807 which the Lord God of Heaven has established for them? Who are we to say who is unclean, who has "unwashen"' hands? May you do all in your power, with a great enthusiasm, to fulfil] the promises of God, I pray. OFFICERS MEETING THURSDAY MORNING, SEPTEMBER 29, 1949 Digest—Report and Official GDnstructions General President Belle S. Spafford a you a ONCE again it becomes privilege to present to brief report of the status of Relief Society, this time for 1948. Our hearts are filled with gratitude to our Heavenly Father, and to the splendid women who have made possible the growth of the society in all of its aspects. We acknowledge the wonderful support and direction that have come to us from the Priesthood authorities. General and Stake Boards € have at present twenty-three members of the general board. Since our last conference it has been necessary to release two of our beloved and capable board members, Sister Priscilla L, Fvans and Sister Florence G. Smith. Only one board member has been appointed since last October, Sister Nellie W. Neal, former president of the Farr West Stake, who was named to the general board in May 1940. We have at present stake board organizations in all of the one hundred Seventy-four stakes of the Church, with Relief Societies in all of the forty-four missions of the Church except two, the Japanese and the Chinese Missions. | Work in Missions We are now receiving annual reports and hearing regularly from all] of the missions, Including the foreign-speaking missions. We are encouraged by the growth of the mission Relief Societies and by the spirit with which the work is conducted there. More and more the Mission societies are conforming to the uniform Program of Relief So. Ciety, and are striving to conduct their work in accordance with recommended procedure. The general board is beginning to build up a foreign language department of lessons, and has asked the Missions to supply copies of all translated Relief Society lessons. We believe this wil] Prove of inestimable value in the future. Are also asking them, as well as you sisters in the stakes, to keep on hand a copy of A Centenary of Relief Society and the Handbook of In. Structions as well as bound volumes of The Relief Society Magazine. Membership and Attendance The membership of