s that could be called together anvwhere in the whole world. And to whom are we obligated? Certainly we have an obligation to the past. No other women have as great a heritage as we women of Relief Society, Think of that first Relief Society. The purpose and aims and fundamentals have not changed in over one hundred years. We must so build that we will not weaken the structure they so firmly established. We are obligated to the future. We are charged with the responsibility of training the mothers who in turn will take these instructions into the homes where they will influence future generations. But our greatest obligation is to the present, for this is our time, and, if we meet the obligation of today faithfully, we will likewise fulfill our obligation to the past and to the future. Of course, our first obligation is to God, for life and being and all that we have and are. That we are grateful for these blessings, that we are trying to fulfill our obligation to him, and that we are not satisfied with merely thanking him in words for his bounties to us, is evidenced by our 'accepting responsibility in his Church. But do we often ask ourselves as did one of old, "What shall I render unto the Lord for all his goodness unto me?" There is only one way we can really pay our debt to God —by keeping his commandments and rendering service to others. Someone has said, service is the rent we pay for the space we occupy here on earth. We are members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE and as such we have an obligation to live the gospel and keep the commandments of God. At the time of baptism we made a covenant with the Lord to do so. But, as stake officers and teachers in Relief Society, it is especially important for us to live according to the standards of the Church and to set the proper example. We have been called to lead and direct the women of our stakes. We have been called to this position not because of our wealth, not because of our social positions, not because of any material possessions or qualifications we may have, but because we love the gospel and live it to the best of our ability and have quallities of spiritual leadership. And we can expect to lead the women no higher than we live ourselves. The Bible says, "as with the people, so with the priest." Our homes must be examples for the women of the stakes to follow. They should be clean, well-kept, and sanitary. And it is our responsibility to guide, direct, and teach the women in the proper maintenance of their homes. There should be cooperation among family members, and love and righteous ambition. Tithing is accepted by Latter-day Saints as a law of God to man, and while the law contains a promise of rewards, we should obey it because it is the Lord's command that we do so, and by obedience comes the blessing of increased spirituality which we must have if we wish to meet the obligations of our callings. Important among the standards of the Church is the observance of the Word of Wisdom, the Lord's guide to temporal salvation, and the 811 proper care of the body. No true Latter-day Saint and, especially, no true Latter-day Saint chosen to a position of leadership, would disregard this law which condemns the use of tobacco and alcoholic beverages and advises against the use of tea and coffee. We need the great and unusual blessings that are promised to those who observe this law. We believe in being honest, true, chaste, and benevolent. We believe that, but do we practice it in very deed? In this day of idle words and scheming for self-gain are our promises fulfilled to the letter? Would we be willing to have the Church judged by the way we keep our obligations in this respect? THER helps toward gaining spiritual development are family and individual prayers and the blessings upon the food, the observance of the Sabbath day, which includes attendance at sacrament meeting and the partaking of the sacrament. Besides living the gospel and teaching it by example, we have an obligation to bring spirituality into all our Relief Society activities. We have a comprehensive educational program in Relief Society aimed to develop the women in every phase of life. We must not lose sight of the fact that spirituality is the foundation and the thread that must run through the entire structure of our Relief Society program to give it strength and purpose and effectiveness. We frequently hear it said, and rightly so, that through activity in Relief Society one can get a liberal 812 education, but we must not become so concerned with self-development in a material way that we lose sight of the great purpose of Relief Society—that of strengthening our testimonies of the gospel and of giving service to others. Years ago at a Relief Society conference, I heard a speaker make a statement that has helped me to realize the importance of spirituality in our lives. He said, "Give your children spiritual experience and they will not be satisfied with any other." Let our women be fed rich spiritual food when they come to Relief Society and they will be anxious to return for more. As a child I used to go to the field with my father to feed the cows. 'They would be scattered all over the field. Father would pound on the bars with the pitchfork and the cows would come running from every direction. 'They were rewarded with good, fresh food. I wonder what would have happened RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1949 if once or twice they had not found good food when they were called. Upon you stake officers rests the responsibility to see that this spiritual food is given to the women in the wards. You must see that ways and means are found to let them enjoy spiritual experiences. Let us not let the temporal things of life take away the blessings of spirituality. 'The Lord has said: For behold I will bless all those who labor in my vineyard with a mighty blessing. Wherefore be not weary in well doing for you are laying the foundation of a great work and out of small things proceedeth that which is great. Strive first for spirituality, seek first to know the deep things of God, and bring to our hungry mothers rich spiritual food. My prayer is that each of us holding a place of responsibility in Relief Society will so meet the obligations of her calling that when our final score is taken, it will be said of us, "Well done, thou good and faithful servant." Yoy in Leadership Counselor Marianne C. Sharp "MEN are that they might have joy," so wrote the great prophet Nephi in declaring the summation of man's goal. Joy, however, comes as a reward for obedience to. Eternal, righteous principles. Joy in leadership, as in other activities, comes as a result of exercising leadership in the way marked out for us by the greatest leader, as he was the greatest teacher, our Savior Jesus Christ. In speaking of leadership, Christ taught:. Whosoever will be great among you, shall be your minister: And whosoever of you will be the chiefest, shall be servant of all. For even the Son of man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister. Therefore, you sisters who stand at the head of the Relief Societies of the stakes of the Church and all assembled here today are servants to those over whom we preside. In order to render the utmost in service there are certain attributes which must be woven into the very being of our spirits. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE Perhaps the frst desirable at tribute would be a full-hearted acceptance of the particular call which Howevet unworthy we may feel to a call of Jeadership in the Church, we know that we are called to such positions through the inspiration of the Priesthood. When a call comes is 0 time to bemoan lost opportunities of the past to better fit one's self for the present call—it is too late for that. When a call comes we must bend all out energies to training for -. E that lies before US; and seek through prayer, study, and our as it comes: templation of all the work that lies ahead during one year is well-nigh | remember a sister one time who was called to serve on 4 Relief Society stake board. In every ward she visited she related how ill equipped che was to fill the position until finally she was made to realize that she was casting reflection On those who had called her to leaderip. From the day she wholeheartedly accepted her appointment and ceased to apologize, she went forward with matked success and experienced satisfaction and jOY in het work as she magnified her calling. A second necessary attribute for joy im leadership ls full loyalty to those who preside over recognition of their right to 813 us. Perhaps we may be given more duties and responsibilities than we consider to be just. Will we ever find joy through rebelling or being disloyal and complaining to others? No, and through perfect loyalty in accepting without question all that '5 asked of each of us, comes greatest srowth. Every task which is undertaken with a willing spirit to which we devote our best efforts rewards the doer with increased powet of accomplishment. The more the ef fort required, the greater the growth. As Sister Robison 'ised to say, "Wel come the task that makes you g° beyond yourself." Another essential attribute closely aligned with the full acceptance of a call and the magnifying of it and loyalty to those who preside over US, ', not to aspire to any other posi tion than the one to which we have been called. At many of the early meetings of Relief i Prophet Joseph Smith warned the sisters repeatedly against this very evil. Said, "Everyone should aspire only to magnify his own office and calling, beware of self-righteousness and be limited in the estimate of your own virtues." From filling the positions to which we are called will come growth to of each of our spirits which the Lord knows needs the greatest development. We should appreciate the truth that this life ls put a brief span of eternity and out progress will continue 0" where he leave off here. Other necessary attributes are meekness and humility. You will remember that to his disciples, Won dering who ls greatest 10 the king; dom of God, Jesus, placing a child 814 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1949 '1 their midst, said, 'Whosoever to you. During your absence they therefore shall humble himself as lack your tender ministrations. They this little child, the same lS greatest are giving an extra watchcare to your in the kingdom of heaven." A while children that no harm may come to ago | heard of some stake sisters them during your absence. 'They who were going to regulate some sacrifice, as do you, for the good you sisters In a ward. Their spinit seemed may accomplish. Anything but meek and humble.! As our adherence to righteous think we could pattern Our behavior principles, as our obedience to those after that which the Lord gave to who preside over us increase, sO the Priesthood, that poweét! And indoes the joy we gain in leadership, ': as we strive to overcome Out faults by persuasion, by long-suffering, by and weaknesses and discipline selfish ge