Meeting Our Obligations Counselor Velma N. Simonsen OMETIME ago I read a letter written by a father to his son upon the son's_ graduation from college. In it he said, "In the game of life it won't matter whether you win or lose, but how you meet your obligations." We can well apply that advice to our Own lives and to our work in the Church. It does not matter what positions we hold, whether we are presidents, counselors, secretaries, or visiting teachers, but how we meet the obligations of our positions. Probably we gathered here today have the greatest obligation of any group of women of equal numbers that could be called together anvwhere in the whole world. And to whom are we obligated? Certainly we have an obligation to the past. No other women have as great a heritage as we women of Relief Society, Think of that first Relief Society. The purpose and aims and fundamentals have not changed in over one hundred years. We must so build that we will not weaken the structure they so firmly established. We are obligated to the future. We are charged with the responsibility of training the mothers who in turn will take these instructions into the homes where they will influence future generations. But our greatest obligation is to the present, for this is our time, and, if we meet the obligation of today faithfully, we will likewise fulfill our obligation to the past and to the future. Of course, our first obligation is to God, for life and being and all that we have and are. That we are grateful for these blessings, that we are trying to fulfill our obligation to him, and that we are not satisfied with merely thanking him in words for his bounties to us, is evidenced by our 'accepting responsibility in his Church. But do we often ask ourselves as did one of old, "What shall I render unto the Lord for all his goodness unto me?" There is only one way we can really pay our debt to God —by keeping his commandments and rendering service to others. Someone has said, service is the rent we pay for the space we occupy here on earth. We are members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE and as such we have an obligation to live the gospel and keep the commandments of God. At the time of baptism we made a covenant with the Lord to do so. But, as stake officers and teachers in Relief Society, it is especially important for us to live according to the standards of the Church and to set the proper example. We have been called to lead and direct the women of our stakes. We have been called to this position not because of our wealth, not because of our social positions, not because of any material possessions or qualifications we may have, but because we love the gospel and live it to the best of our ability and have quallities of spiritual leadership. And we can expect to lead the women no higher than we live ourselves. The Bible says, "as with the people, so with the priest." Our homes must be examples for the women of the stakes to follow. They should be clean, well-kept, and sanitary. And it is our responsibility to guide, direct, and teach the women in the proper maintenance of their homes. There should be cooperation among family members, and love and righteous ambition. Tithing is accepted by Latter-day Saints as a law of God to man, and while the law contains a promise of rewards, we should obey it because it is the Lord's command that we do so, and by obedience comes the blessing of increased spirituality which we must have if we wish to meet the obligations of our callings. Important among the standards of the Church is the observance of the Word of Wisdom, the Lord's guide to temporal salvation, and the 811 proper care of the body. No true Latter-day Saint and, especially, no true Latter-day Saint chosen to a position of leadership, would disregard this law which condemns the use of tobacco and alcoholic beverages and advises against the use of tea and coffee. We need the great and unusual blessings that are promised to those who observe this law. We believe in being honest, true, chaste, and benevolent. We believe that, but do we practice it in very deed? In this day of idle words and scheming for self-gain are our promises fulfilled to the letter? Would we be willing to have the Church judged by the way we keep our obligations in this respect? THER helps toward gaining spiritual development are family and individual prayers and the blessings upon the food, the observance of the Sabbath day, which includes attendance at sacrament meeting and the partaking of the sacrament. Besides living the gospel and teaching it by example, we have an obligation to bring spirituality into all our Relief Society activities. We have a comprehensive educational program in Relief Society aimed to develop the women in every phase of life. We must not lose sight of the fact that spirituality is the foundation and the thread that must run through the entire structure of our Relief Society program to give it strength and purpose and effectiveness. We frequently hear it said, and rightly so, that through activity in Relief Society one can get a liberal 812 education, but we must not become so concerned with self-development in a material way that we lose sight of the great purpose of Relief Society—that of strengthening our testimonies of the gospel and of giving service to others. Years ago at a Relief Society conference, I heard a speaker make a statement that has helped me to realize the importance of spirituality in our lives. He said, "Give your children spiritual experience and they will not be satisfied with any other." Let our women be fed rich spiritual food when they come to Relief Society and they will be anxious to return for more. As a child I used to go to the field with my father to feed the cows. 'They would be scattered all over the field. Father would pound on the bars with the pitchfork and the cows would come running from every direction. 'They were rewarded with good, fresh food. I wonder what would have happened RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1949 if once or twice they had not found good food when they were called. Upon you stake officers rests the responsibility to see that this spiritual food is given to the women in the wards. You must see that ways and means are found to let them enjoy spiritual experiences. Let us not let the temporal things of life take away the blessings of spirituality. 'The Lord has said: For behold I will bless all those who labor in my vineyard with a mighty blessing. Wherefore be not weary in well doing for you are laying the foundation of a great work and out of small things proceedeth that which is great. Strive first for spirituality, seek first to know the deep things of God, and bring to our hungry mothers rich spiritual food. My prayer is that each of us holding a place of responsibility in Relief Society will so meet the obligations of her calling that when our final score is taken, it will be said of us, "Well done, thou good and faithful servant." Yoy in Leadership Counselor Marianne C. Sharp "MEN are that they might have joy," so wrote the great prophet Nephi in declaring the summation of man's goal. Joy, however, comes as a reward for obedience to. Eternal, righteous principles.