ntleness, and meekness, and by and envious traits. Joy comes jove unfeigned; by kindns' A Giouth bee ee foibles pure knowledge which shall greatly and faili enlarge the soul without hypocrisy and without guile." PuNALly, to find. Joy 1 leaderfailed in one assignment Ot sugges tion which the general board has Church callings must be attended th to after our families ate served. This at greatest work of Reliet A S: -_ re) F rc ' ij th requires forethought and diligence ociety—in HYDE to the relief of the: —"_ stranger, pour in oil and wine to put no sister cat find joy 11 leadertget, P 6.. + the wounded heart of the distressed ship if she 1 neglecting her family and drying UP the tears of the orFor your good works we thank you with hearts full of love. We realize that your work taxes yout to Relief Society. Your presence utmost efforts and that not the least here today from Canada, from Mex of your anxiety 1 the responsibility 'co, from all ovet the United States, resting upon you to guide the Relief testifies eloquently of the love and Societies of the stakes of Zion. For consideration your husbands extend yout faithfulness and leadership we RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE pray our Heavenly Father in the name of his Son that you may have increasing joy from your leadership duties and may earn the promise made to Relief Society members by GENERAL 815 the Prophet Joseph, "If you live up to these principles, how great and glorious will be your reward in the celestial kingdom." 'That this may be so, I pray. SESSION THURSDAY AFTERNOON, SEPTEMBER 29, 1949 Digest— Choose You Shis Day Evon W. Peterson HE hosts of heaven were assembled in that great council to listen to the voice of the Father as he told them of his plan to create an earth where his children could enter into their second estate, which was to take a body and fulfill the full measure of their creation. At that time the Father bestowed upon them the greatest of all gifts, the right to choose—to choose that day whom they would follow. In that assembly, naturally, there were some who were not as valiant as were others, yet they were all given their free agency to choose for themselves. That free agency has continued in mortality as a basic principle in the eternal law of progression. However, if we are to gain eternal life, we must be obedient to the laws of truth. Often in the midst of sorrow or trials that come into our lives or disasters that come upon the world, we ask, "Why does God allow it?" One writer said: If only we were honest with ourselves we would admit how unfair it is to blame the Lord. The simple truth is that mankind, not the Lord, is entirely responsible. These things are the direct result of abusing the most wonderful gift we have ever received from heaven—the gift of free-will. In the Book of Mormon we read where the Prophet Samuel was preaching to the Lamanites and he told them of the things that were to happen and the great blessings that were in store for those who would heed the teachings of the Lord, and then he pointed out the tribulations that would come to those who would not believe and he said: And now remember, remember, my brethren, that whosoever perisheth, perisheth unto himself and who doeth iniquity doeth it unto himself, for behold ye are free, ye are permitted to act for yourself, for behold God has given unto you a knowledge and he hath made you free. In our complex life today we are continually meeting new problems. Almost every day is a day of decisions—what to do, what choice to make. With our limited understanding we cannot make important decisions without guidance. There has never been a time when man needed more desperately the help of divine inspiration than he does today, and I know of no better way to secure this inspiration than by keeping the commandments of our Father in Heaven. Although the world is ever changing, the fundamental truths of our gospel are the same today as they the multitudes on the shores of Galilee. He marked the path and led the way, and as Latter-day Saints we have been given light and under. Standing of the road which leads to eternal life. Are we as parents heeding that counsel? Are we exercising our gift of choice in such a way that it will] assure the greatest happiness for ourselves and for our families? I recently read an article written by Elder Stephen L Richards in which he said: The homes which Produce real Latter. Day Saints shall be presided over and maintained by men of strength and cour. Age, of virtue and vision, and by women of tendemess, unselfishness and infinite patience and love. One of our responsibilities as parents is to help our children in mak. Ing important decisions in life. We May not be able to help a child solve his particular Problem, but we can help him to acquire the right attitude toward it and we can encourage him to go to his Heavenly Father for assistance, Youth is the seedtime of life, and if a child is to Teap an abundant harvest he must be taught to choose and sow those seeds that will develop a righteous life. We cannot compel a child to appreciate love and beauty. This appreciation only comes through association with the Home atmosphere js likely the most basic consideration in the development of youth. If the atmos. Phere is healthy and stimulating, the lives of family members who breathe it will likewise be healthy and vigorous, Our Relief Society lessons have taught us that too many today are content to remain on the fringe of righteousness, satisfied with the shel] When they could and should have the core. The worthwhile things of life lie ahead and only struggle can bring us to them. Those who are willing to exert the greater effort reach the greater heights. A man was traveling along a paved highway. The Pavement ended and there stretched before him as far as he could see a ditt road in very poor condition. Where the poor road began a large sign read "Choose your tut now for you will be in it for the next twenty miles," There are Many spiritual ruts along life's highway. Let us try to avoid them. The road to tighteousN€ss is upward and ahead. There are easier roads to travel, but there are none that will bring the supreme joy that comes from righteous liying. The degree of happiness that we may enjoy during our later years will not come by accident nor by good luck, as some may say, but it will be the result of the way we live each day. Let us also remember it is likely that we teach more by what we do RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE spiration of our Father in Heaven in guiding our children so that they may choose for themselves the better life. And in the words of Joshua 817 of old, let us say "Choose you this day whom ye will serve, but as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord." Digest— Cultivating Life s Gternal Values Mary J. Wilson S a text for my brief message I have taken a verse from the sixth section of the Doctrine and Covenants: Seek not for riches but for wisdom, and behold the mysteries of God shall be unfolded unto you, then shall you be made rich. Behold, he that hath eternal life is rich. The most important responsibility resting upon any individual is to build a worthwhile and meaningful life. 'This objective is not achieved in a day, a week, or a year. With every person is born the God-given assignment to build a life. What, then, are the materials we should use in building a worthwhile and meaningful life? America's great inspirational poet, Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, caught the vision: For the structure that we raise Time is with materials filled, Our todays and yesterdays Are the blocks with which we build. Nothing enduring can be built without a pattern or plan. We must have purpose and direction in our building. What is the great plan by which we shape our lives? We, as Relief Society sisters, know the answer, for it is to know and to do the will of our Heavenly Father. Our time, our energy, and our means are limited, so we are of necessity confronted with the responsibility of making choices. How necessary it is, therefore, that we develop a pattern of life containing imperishable, eternal values, and that we build them into the structure of our individual lives. May I suggest some of the basic soul values which must go into the great edifice of eternal life? Some of the eternal qualities for which we must strive are sincere and abiding faith, interest in and love for our fellow men, and sincere devotion to our Heavenly Father's plan for the achievement of eternal life. Faith is that which gives us vision to carry on, and confidence in ultimate success, even in the face of present discouragement. In I Nephi, 17th chapter, we learn that Nephi was commanded to build a ship. His brothers laughed at him and ridiculed him, but Nephi said unto them: If God had commanded me to. Do all things I could do them. If he should command me that I should say unto this water, be thou earth, it should be earth; and if I should say it, it would be done. Through faith we have the power to be selective. We may know the wheat from the chaff. There is no more important element in building faith and cultivating the other qualities of eternal life than prayer. It is a means of getting closer to God; through this medium we learn his will. Yet too often our prayers are uttered as a matter of habit and routine. But the prayers that will enrich our souls 818 and give us n