"Choose you this day whom ye will serve, but as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord." Digest— Cultivating Life s Gternal Values Mary J. Wilson S a text for my brief message I have taken a verse from the sixth section of the Doctrine and Covenants: Seek not for riches but for wisdom, and behold the mysteries of God shall be unfolded unto you, then shall you be made rich. Behold, he that hath eternal life is rich. The most important responsibility resting upon any individual is to build a worthwhile and meaningful life. 'This objective is not achieved in a day, a week, or a year. With every person is born the God-given assignment to build a life. What, then, are the materials we should use in building a worthwhile and meaningful life? America's great inspirational poet, Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, caught the vision: For the structure that we raise Time is with materials filled, Our todays and yesterdays Are the blocks with which we build. Nothing enduring can be built without a pattern or plan. We must have purpose and direction in our building. What is the great plan by which we shape our lives? We, as Relief Society sisters, know the answer, for it is to know and to do the will of our Heavenly Father. Our time, our energy, and our means are limited, so we are of necessity confronted with the responsibility of making choices. How necessary it is, therefore, that we develop a pattern of life containing imperishable, eternal values, and that we build them into the structure of our individual lives. May I suggest some of the basic soul values which must go into the great edifice of eternal life? Some of the eternal qualities for which we must strive are sincere and abiding faith, interest in and love for our fellow men, and sincere devotion to our Heavenly Father's plan for the achievement of eternal life. Faith is that which gives us vision to carry on, and confidence in ultimate success, even in the face of present discouragement. In I Nephi, 17th chapter, we learn that Nephi was commanded to build a ship. His brothers laughed at him and ridiculed him, but Nephi said unto them: If God had commanded me to. Do all things I could do them. If he should command me that I should say unto this water, be thou earth, it should be earth; and if I should say it, it would be done. Through faith we have the power to be selective. We may know the wheat from the chaff. There is no more important element in building faith and cultivating the other qualities of eternal life than prayer. It is a means of getting closer to God; through this medium we learn his will. Yet too often our prayers are uttered as a matter of habit and routine. But the prayers that will enrich our souls 818 and give us new vision and faith are the prayers through which we open our souls completely to God with the faith and confidence that he will give us strength to face and overcome the things that are keeping us from achieving true spiritual growth. Faith and prayer, however, cannot function in our lives in a truly effective way merely as abstract principles. In James, we are told that "faith without works is dead." We must therefore reflect our faith in our service and love for our fellow men. One of the greatest statements in the Bible concerning the Savior is, he "went about doing good." When service is mentioned, we are prone to cast about for an opportunity to serve in a big way in a remote place. Our tendency is to forget the "Acres of Diamonds" lying about our own doors. In the same community, or on the same block, or perhaps in our own families, there are those who are discouraged and impoverished for the want of words of hope and love. There are those who are spiritually sick as well as mentally and physically ill. On the whole, our fields of service lie within areas about our own homes. A Relief Society visiting teacher, on one of her visits, found a sister crushed with grief. 'This afflicted sister had passed through much sorrow, and she had lost faith in her Heavenly Father. 'The visiting teacher had a newly found interest in this unfortunate sister. 'The teacher visited her new friend often, and helped her to get new interests in life; helped her to reRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1949 kindle faith in herself and faith in immortality. 'This is only one example of true love and service that comes from our visiting teachers, but there are thousands of such cases where people have helped within our Relief Society organization. Latter-day Saints have a marvelous concept of the meaning and necessity of growth through acquisition of knowledge. The Lord has declared that the "glory of God is intelligence," and that "man is saved no faster than he gains knowledge." Then again in the Doctrine and Covenants, section 130:18-19, we read, "Whatever principle of intelligence we attain unto in this life, it will rise with us in the resurrection." How can we, then, cultivate knowledge and intelligence in our quest for eternal values? First, we must be awakened to the need for growth, and then we shall find the means and opportunities for development. We not only gain knowledge through the study of great books, but through prayer we also find the ways and means of development. Let us not waste time. Benjamin Franklin wrote, "Dost thou love life? Then do not squander time, for that is what life is made of." One often hears this expression, "If I just had time to do this or that," but we overlook what can be accomplished by small snatches of time. Be ever alert to your opportunities. Study, seek good companions, insist upon filling your life with eternal riches. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE You have a great birthright, you live in a land "choice above all other lands." You have accepted as a pattern of life the gospel of Jesus Christ. Your opportunities are unbounded. But only you can fashion your individual lives into glorious, 819 eternal mansions filled with the eternal light of truth. May God bless all of us that we may get the vision necessary to see life at its best and give us strength to live according to an eternal pattern. Digest—Prepare Shy Heart Leone O. Jacobs NE of the most glorious truths of life is that we can always rise above our present level. Wouldn't life be discouraging if, once we found ourselves involved in unworthy conduct, we couldn't pull ourselves up, and out, and on to better ways? But we don't have to remain as we are. Each day offers a new beginning. | An old man was once reviewing his life to a friend: "When I was thirty I was just no good—no good to anybody, not even to myself. Then one day I had the urge, the desire, to right about face. I decided I was going to change my direction, and from that moment I have led a life I'm proud of." A young college girl paused one day in her round of excitement and said, "I guess I'm going with the wrong crowd. I don't think I want to go where they're going." She didn't go that way. A mother of three husky little boys had never deemed it necessary to give them any religious instruction. Oh, yes, she fed them wellbalanced meals, kept them as clean as little boys can be kept, and saw to it that bedtime was strictly observed. But one day she pondered to herself, "I wonder if I'm a really good mother. I guess there's more to rearing a family than merely feeding and clothing them. I seem to have time for my bridge club and for social engagements in the evenings, but maybe I'm neglecting some important points." She did something about it. Lives can be changed, can't they? The course of our lives can be rerouted. But how? Let's call it preparing the heart. Well, what does preparing one's heart mean? It means checking up on one's self, scrutinizing one's daily life and evaluating what is there—what is worthy and what is unworthy of continuing. It means ridding one's self of bitterness and selfishness. It means humbling one's self before the Lord. It means complete forgiveness of all wrongs inflicted on us, either real or imagined. It means opening wide one's heart to righteousness—putting one's self in an attitude to receive good. It means planning one's course differently. Picture in your mind a field, plowed and harrowed from end to end, leveled perfectly, weeds burned down along the fence line, everything possible done that is conducive to the growth of good seed. The field is ready, waiting to receive that good seed. We can put our hearts in that very same condition, in an 820 attitude of receptiveness to good. We can plow up the old, useless habits and smooth down the rough places of error. We hear someone say, "I wish I could enjoy working in the Church as you do. It seems to make you so happy." They can. It's all in the set of the heart. It's all in preparing the heart to want that sort of living. And then we hear people say, too, "But I don't see how you get time for it all." In one of our recent Relief Society conventions, a bishop said something profoundly impotrtant for us to remember. He said, "If you're too busy to serve the Lord, you're too busy." Yes, if we are too busy to serve the Lord, then we are too busy doing other things that aren't so worthwhile. In the Old Testament we read this: "For Ezra had prepared his heart to seek the law of the Lord and to do it." What a lovely ideal for us to follow. And in the Doctrine and Covenants (132:3) the Lord said to the Prophet Joseph Smith: - "Therefore,