ew vision and faith are the prayers through which we open our souls completely to God with the faith and confidence that he will give us strength to face and overcome the things that are keeping us from achieving true spiritual growth. Faith and prayer, however, cannot function in our lives in a truly effective way merely as abstract principles. In James, we are told that "faith without works is dead." We must therefore reflect our faith in our service and love for our fellow men. One of the greatest statements in the Bible concerning the Savior is, he "went about doing good." When service is mentioned, we are prone to cast about for an opportunity to serve in a big way in a remote place. Our tendency is to forget the "Acres of Diamonds" lying about our own doors. In the same community, or on the same block, or perhaps in our own families, there are those who are discouraged and impoverished for the want of words of hope and love. There are those who are spiritually sick as well as mentally and physically ill. On the whole, our fields of service lie within areas about our own homes. A Relief Society visiting teacher, on one of her visits, found a sister crushed with grief. 'This afflicted sister had passed through much sorrow, and she had lost faith in her Heavenly Father. 'The visiting teacher had a newly found interest in this unfortunate sister. 'The teacher visited her new friend often, and helped her to get new interests in life; helped her to reRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1949 kindle faith in herself and faith in immortality. 'This is only one example of true love and service that comes from our visiting teachers, but there are thousands of such cases where people have helped within our Relief Society organization. Latter-day Saints have a marvelous concept of the meaning and necessity of growth through acquisition of knowledge. The Lord has declared that the "glory of God is intelligence," and that "man is saved no faster than he gains knowledge." Then again in the Doctrine and Covenants, section 130:18-19, we read, "Whatever princi