corner of her mouth in a perpetual smile. "T'm so thankful I wasn't frowning when it hit," she would explain. "Whenever my mother used to catch me pouting she would say, 'Now, Emmy, what if your face should freeze that way? Wouldn't you be a pretty sight!' So now I have to keep a smile on the other side to keep my mouth from looking like a pretzel." From then on I watched her to see if she ever frowned so that I could see her pretzel mouth. But the smile held on. "Besides," she would continue, Page 821 822 "suppose the old striker should come back for the other side? They say if he comes once he will come again. I'll have to be ready." I should have recognized the ominousness of that possibility; but the way Emmy put it there was nothing ominous. And we all smiled with her. S° the morning her great-granddaughter came for me and said Grandma Emmy wanted me to come and get my Christmas present I was somewhat astonished. "Tt's three days before Christmas," I protested, "and besides, I haven't got Emmy's present finished yet." I was making her a scrapbook of poems and proverbs that I thought she might like. I used to read to her sometimes and felt we had a secret bond that the others didn't share. "She didn't say to bring her present," the child rejoiced, "she said for you to come and get yours." I gathered up the unfinished scrapbook and went to get my coat. "She said for you to bring your ukulele, too," the child continued. "She wants some Christmas carols." Often I had played the ukulele for Emmy, sometimes as an instrumental solo, and sometimes as accompaniment for folk songs or hymns. We used to work out harmonies on "My Old Kentucky Home" and "The Old Rugged Cross." She especially liked my arrangement of "Moonlight and Roses" and "Abide With Me." She never belittled the sincerity of that small music box. She never even said, ""T'oo bad you never had RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1949 a pipe organ," like so many of my friends always said. I got the ukulele and followed the child to Emmy's house. Emmy was sitting on the edge of her bed. Besides the four generations of her household there were the milkman and the iceman, who had finished the business of their visits and now stood at the foot of the brass bed twisting their caps. "We're all here but the postman," Emmy said brightly. "He always brings me a calendar for Christmas and a seed catalogue for my birthday. What time is it, somebody? Maybe we can wait." I looked at my watch. It was a quarter after eight. The postman likely wouldn't be there for an hour. Loaded with Christmas mail, he might not make it before noon. The smell of ominousness hung heavily in the air. 'The sound of silent words whispered ominously. Ominous shadows could all but be seen playing about the room. I was afraid the postman would be too late. The good side of Emmy's face twitched slightly. "We'll sing a few carols and maybe he'll come. Get out your Stradivarius," she said to me. "Let's sing 'O Come, All Ye Faithful.' " We sang "O Come, All Ye Faithful" and "Joy to the World," and "Away in a Manger." 'The twitchings tried to make a pretzel of Emmy's mouth. And my throat filled up and it was hard to sing. "Somebody hand me down the box from the closet shelf," Emmy said, and her voice had an unfamiliar sound. Her daughter brought the large cardboard carton and set it on the bed. Emmy raised the READY FOR CHRISTMAS flaps and lowered her gnarled hands into the box. She moved with great effort, and spoke with even greater difficulty. We all wanted to help her. But Emmy had always helped herself. With similar effort we restrained ourselves. "An apron—for you—my daughter." Her daughter took the apron and dabbed it to her eyes. The grandson got a crocheted scarf; his wife, a dresser set done in Swedish darning; their little girl got a beautiful rag doll with yarn pigtails and a red calico petticoat. When upended, the petticoat made a gay skirt for the pickaninny face underneath. The two great-grandsons got mittens and caps to match in bright wool. There were gloves for the milkman, the iceman, and the postman, and orange pomanders, scented with cloves and dried to a delicate turn, for their wives. Her gift to me was a blue satin needle cushion made in the shape of a small book. 'There were pages for pins and for needles, and there was a pocket for buttons. The title was stitched on the front with gold thread. "The Book of Friendship," 823 it said; and on the inside, in the same golden letters, "For the books we have read together, and the books you must write alone." There was a stinging in my eyes, and I turned to the window. It hadn't been an hour, but the postman was walking up the street on the other side. "Hurry!" I called, almost out loud through the frosty pane. "Hurry, and get your mittens." "Tell him to come,' Emmy said. He brought the calendar just in time. "It's been a lovely Christmas," Emmy said softly. "Please play 'Hark—the Herald—Angels—Sing.'"' I Jaid down my Book of Friendship and raised the ukulele. I couldn't hear the angels; but I think Emmy's hearing was better than mine. Like Jacob of old, she gathered up her feet into the bed and settled back against her pillow. The twitch rippled out to the edge of her thin face and disappeared. The old striker had returned for the other side. But Emmy had been ready. And now both corners of her mouth were clasped in a perpetual smile. <_< NEW SERIAL TO BEGIN IN JANUARY "Dark in the Chrysalis," a new serial by Alice Morrey Bailey, will begin in the January Magazine. It relates the struggle of a woman to overcome loneliness and grief and make a place for herself under adverse circumstances. Beautifully written. The story is vividly and Mrs. Bailey is already well-known to our readers both as a poet and a writer of serials and short stories. Her serial ""The Merry-Go-Round" was featured during 1941 and 1942. She has twice been awarded the first prize in the Relief Society Short Story Contest. ("The Wilderness," published January 1942, and "Nugget of Truth," published in January 1948). Her second-prize story "The Ring of Strength" was published in February 1946. Her second-prize poem '"'Migrant'' was published in January 1948. Mrs. Bailey and her husband DeWitt are the parents of a son and two daughters and they have one granddaughter. Their son Donald will soon be leaving on a mission to Mexico. An unusually gifted woman, Mrs. Bailey is also a composer, artist, musician, sculptor, and a trained nurse. She is active in her ward and has written many plays and pageants for special occasions, as well as writing the first-prize one-act play in the M. I. A. Utah Centennial contest. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, December 1, and December 15, 1889 "FOR THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE Women oF ALL Nations" COMMENT: Mary Hallock Foote, in her picture of the Far West in the Century, says the hfe of man may be large and dramatic, even in failure; but the life of women here, as everywhere, is made up of very small matters,—a badly-cooked dinner, a horrible wall paper, a wind that tears the nerves, a child with something the matter with it which the doctor "doesn't understand," an acquaintance that is just near enough not to be a friend; it is the little shocks for which one is never prepared, the little disappointments and insecurities and failures and postponements, the want of completeness and perfection in anything that harrows a woman's soul and makes her forget too often that she has a soul. J OFTEN WONDER WHY 'TIS SO Some find work where some find rest, And so the weary world goes on; I sometimes wonder which is best; The answer comes when life is gone. Some eyes sleep when some eyes wake, And so the weary night-hours go; Some hearts beat when some hearts break; I often wonder why 'tis so. —A, J. R. THE MAYFLOWER AT PLYMOUTH: There has been completed recently at the capitol a painting which is attracting much attention, not only for the artistic features of the work but also for the historic interest attached. The painting is the work of Harrison Eastman, of Washington. It represents the arrival of the Mayflower at Plymouth Rock. The picture was painted for Mrs. Leland Stanford, wife of Senator Stanford, of California, and is the result of long and laborious research on the part of the artist. It is said that the price for the work is $2 5,000. THORNS AND ROSES: Nature teaches us that we cannot find a calm untroubled stream of light and life. Winter comes with icy sceptre held on high and when his breath is felt the world's wild pulses cease to beat and all her gladsome songs are hushed; but Summer follows with her hand of warmth and loosens all his frigid chains. Night comes, and wraps his sombre mantle round the earth—mantles, dark, and cold, and chill, but day-light drives night shades away. The storm-king often beats down sorrow and dismay, but sunshine always follows rain. Through all, the biting cold, the genial warmth, the dark and light, the storm and calm, we tread life's hill-side path, yet never tread that path alone.—Aretta HOLIDAY THOUGHTS: Salt Lake City has put on her holiday attire once more, and bedecked herself profusely with gay colors, and on every side one notes immediately that Christmas is at hand. The stores and shop-windows are almost too full for display, though a great deal of good taste is manifest in the arrangement of Christmas goods. 'The children are on tiptoe with excitement, and gaze as they pass along with wonder-eyes, at the variety of toys and playthings on exhibit. What a contrast the streets present now to thirty years ago, and how the little folks revel in luxuries that Santa Claus supplies for their indulgence. Page 824 uman elngs, Whether Physically, spiritually, ] ma On, a Musician is the Mother of two children and OF Intellectyay. The wife of aM artist, Mrs Ruth - They are fulfilling Christ's Bryan Rho © was Ministey to Den- "first ang great "ommandment " mark before the war and Ts. Perle cir name jg legion and Charity Mesta js Now United States Min. Will not fai] While their influence ister to the grand duchy of Luxemabides, bourg. En Of 194 ty-eight years old and jg:; one of the MOst original and p Provides "PPtOpriate, aterial for ular painters of he present day. She UME eve "ngs, for "eading to small Paints striking] beautify] countr children wedi @ valuable Supplescenes, many c which appear op ment for use; Sunday School ang Christmas cards mary, The lustrations, by Richard J. Rik; * make g Phic and 'THE Nationa] Federation of colorty] additions to the worth of ~ Women's Clubs, 'cording to Ms excelle t boo Pastor Alson J. Smith, js T€sponsible ' Considerable "MProvement in the KATHLEEN NORRIS Tecently quality of recent MOVINg pictures Made g Strong plea for the Ome of which "ar United Nations meetings to } better" | Opened with Me of the 'sociated with drinking vine and aking th We of alcoho] for gtanted Page 825 MT ORIAL m2 VOL. 26 DECEMBER 1949 NO. 12 Christmas "Won Gre Years THE significance of the word "Christmas" changes with our years, but both to the child and the aged there remains an enchantment which never vanishes. In our childhood, Christmas provides the answer to all our wishes, the one day in the year when dreams become reality. The electric train, the dazzling doll, appear without fail, and the beloved Santa Claus dispenscs a wondrous supply of gifts. Then, the morning after Christmas is one of keen regret in spite of the gifts of yesterday, for an endless succession of days seems to stretch ahead before the next Christmas will come.. In our teens, the day still holds forth great promise and excitement. Although the bountiful Santa has long since gone, rarely do even our most extravagant desires go unfilled. The first Christmas of married life is a wonderfully happy and satisfying day, when, from carefully hoarded dimes and nickles, the husband and wife surprise the other with much-wanted gifts which reveal sacrifice on the part of the givers. And then, as children bless the marnage, the tenor of Christmas changes for the parents. Santa Claus once more dominates the scene with magic as potent as of yore. 'Trains and dolls in ultra-modern dress appear. The looks of love and understanding shared by the parents, as the children exclaim with delight over their presents, are rich recompense for the threadbare rug or the parents' own shabby clothes. And, then, for the last time the scene shifts. 'The children have left to make homes of their own and, perhaps, even the beloved companion has gone ahead. Then Christmas morning is laved with a feeling of nostalgia. Before the flames of the hearthside appears a_ shifting panorama in which Christmases of the past and present glow and fade, and merge. 'The cravings and longings for material largess have largely disappeared. 'The spirit has come to know with certainty "It is more blessed to give than to receive," and an awakened realization of the efficacy of that greatest Gift to mankind, at last, teaches the heart the true meaning of Christmas. M. C. S. She sooth Semi-Annual Church Con ference T the close of each general conference of the Church, while acknowledging the greatness of the conferences of previous years, the last one is always acclaimed as the best one which has ever been held. Page 226 In The Church of Jesus Christ, over which the prophets of the Lord preside, it would seem only natural that the Father would give by inspiration that bread of life most needful and satisfying to his obedi- 827 ent and loving children Thus each Taising his hands ip blessing upon Conference js the best fo the parthe saints. This jg Indeed an age of Ocular tim Onders and the conten lation of The; oth semi-annual] Church television BIVES rise to the thoy ht Conference as a "morable one Of its use as the means of preachin 1 One particular It was history-mak. The Sospel ¢ every Nation, Kindred. Ing. For the first time Church tongue, and People before the end members were Ptivileged to sit in embers of the hurch wh their hom and view by KSL-Ty ald or read the Conference pro Not only the Sound of each Speaker's Ceedings try] show the; appreciaVoice, t his every facia] expression "0n of the teachings d the sery and gesture Sewell) Tip. Close-y ICes of the general uthorities } view obtained 6 television Was suhy Cding the admonit; Penior to 4 view xCept that of th | the "Omparative fey, who ed in the Were—to y ¢ Welfare Plan, Keep the COus posiSabbath g holy, Support the Mise Ta "acle. Those ho slonary Work, thy Tence on Sunday a Chapter 15 ( Conclusion AE house as Very quiet in them in he bottom drawer of the fh he days that followed Penney ardrobe trunk, « bigail, dar. NY went shopping with Jo. Ling, you'll see. This wil] be the anna and struggled to € enthusinest thing + at ever 4Ppened to ASC Over ¢] thes, but she was wh tePenny. Year fr aced and h aVY-eyed Jo om Now she']] "Yed. Joanna, Wakmile When meon Ing in the night, hear her muffled ' Weeping, Sh someone Me€ntions ark's name." © Covered her €als with bigail Put the sock In her Jg the pillow. Someday Penny would « You smile, Joanna, When yo thank her for this, € of Kent Taylor?" Ichael was the ° Joanna ucked in her breath Pain Was delighted with PlOspect of Toared through her. "Ke t? Why eing Teleased from sc Ool. He Y. Oh, but it's different." brought h Me atmloads Maps "Why is it?" and traced the routes they woulg "Oh, Abigail, let's not argue any follow. Da, id went quietly abou; More. Penn the business f learning all r things Joanna | none 2 tying for a girl J knew 4 3; h & time ago ve and. -. And The telephone ark, ip" Oanna * Ger in passin € office, CatchNg up on some last m; Tang, "J Patted Abiga ll answer il's shoul- JOANNA the front hall. Again Joanna silently resolved to have an extension put in. She kept forgetting. She lifted the receiver. "Hello." "Mrs. Niels?" A strange man's voice came over the wire. "Ves 23 "Mrs. Niels, this is Doctor Weldon. Your son David has been rather badly injured... Automobile accident. Could you come at once?" Joanna felt swift breath tush in her throat. "J']]. -. Pll come at once. What hospital?" She called to Abigail and rushed back to her room, picking up her coat and bag. Ig seemed to Joanna that it took her hours to reach the hospital. Even the moments of climbing the stairs, calling to Abigail, seemed to stretch interminably, and the three block drive to the hospital seemed an endless crawl. Then there was the long wait at the desk until the gitl there could tell her in which room David lay. The elevator whined and inched to the fourth floor, until Joanna felt the scream that crouched in her would burst its bonds any moment. The long corridor was silent and empty except for a man who conferred with a nurse at the far end. He looked up and saw Joanna and Abigail and came toward them. "Mrs. Niels?" "Yes. How is he?" He used a great many words to tell her that David was not expected to live, words like feathers to smother the pain. Always a hope, of course. A frail chance for recovery. - "But it is best you remain 829 here for awhile, Mrs. Niels. A. So close was he to death. "May we see him?" She was aware of Abigail's arm around her when they went into the small, green painted room with its white, high bed. David lay quietly under the stiff neatness of hospital sheets. "He is not conscious," Doctor Weldon said. Joanna went over to the bed and looked down on her son, His head was bandaged and on his cheek was a long strip of plaster. His hands lay at his sides, ink was stained along