LINES TO AN OLD WALNUT TREE. Mrs. Donna M. Meacham. Majestic spreading walnut tree, Whose grateful shade I have enjoyed. Delicious fruit you've given me I trust you may not be destroyed, That strangers will be kind to thee, For I am bidding thee farewell, Thou dear, old stately walnut tree, Henceforth apart from you to dwell. Guide Lesson Suggestions LESSON I. TESTIMONY AND GENEALOGY First Week in December. PIONEER TEMPLE BUILDING IN UTAH. President Brigham Young was deeply interested in every phase of temple building and temple work, as was his leader, the Prophet Joseph Smith. His first thought on entering the Utah wilderness was about rearing a temple to Jehovah's name. We have every evidence of that fact. His remarks, as found in this lesson, will indicate his ideas upon this subject. President Young said, April 8, 1852, at the general conference, this before any temple was built in Utah: Is it not necessary that we should have a temple? Now, brethren, if you can believe it, I will reveal the truth to you. It is absolutely necessary that this people should build a temple to the most high God. "What for?" it may be inquired. "To worship the Lord in?" No! Absolutely this is the fact. "Have we not heretofore built temples, and commenced others?" "And when these were built, were they not built for the assembly of the people, and for the public worship of God?" Yes, but this was by permission, that is all. A temple that is built for the priests of the most high, is built to be occupied by the priesthood, by those who have the oracles of that priesthood. But it may be inquired — "Are they not built to assemble the congregation in to confess their faults, and to exhort each other, and partake of the sacrament of the Lord's supper, etc.?" That is not the design of a temple, though it may be done in it. The tabernacle is for the congregation, and the temple is for the priests of the most high to enter in, and be as pillars, and there administer in the name of Israel's God, and for the salvation of the living and the dead;  that is what temples are for. For instance, let me ask the question here of the elders of Israel — are we now in circumstances to go forth and redeem our fathers, and our forefathers — to act in their behalf? Now the congregation are lost at this very reflection, they don't know anything about it;  but if I reveal the facts in the case to you, then you will know. Were we to inquire, where is your baptismal font to begin the operation? It is to be built for the express purpose of going down into it to be baptized for your forefathers, for the remission of their sins;  and without this, not the first step can be taken. If we cannot take the first step, it would be altogether improper in undertaking to take the last step. This would just be like a man standing at the bottom of a ladder, all the time reaching to the top round, without coming to it in the regular way by stepping on the first, second, etc. You have got to begin at the beginning. Although we are giving endowments here, yet if we had enjoyed the privilege that we should have enjoyed in the land of our nativity, and had had the privilege of building temples, and dedicating them, and of occupy- 
 ing them, there is not an act of ours but what would have been legal. If the inquiry should arise, is it by the right authority we act? I will tell you. it is by the authority of permission;  and if we had not a house here, and were disposed to take the trouble of going on these mountains, and there give the endowments, the Lord would own it, and acknowledge those endowed, and all hell could not prevail against them. * * * President Young remarked, October 6, 1851 •. The first I have noted is a question, — shall we commence to build a temple next spring, in order that we may receive our endowment more fully? There are many in this congregation who are aware that we do not give all the endowments, neither can we, legally, until we build a temple. The endowments we now give are given merely by permission, as we have not a house in which to officiate in these ordinances of salvation, that is legal, though we have got a comfortable place, which we have dedicated to the Lord, and the brethren who go therein, know and can bear testimony whether the Spirit of the Lord is there or not. Again he said on August 29, 1852: When Brother Joseph revealed the great mystery of being baptized for the dead, did not a great many of the elders of Israel think then, 'Mormonism' cannot endure;  it will be overcome." Every item of doctrine brother Joseph has brought forth had to meet with opposition from the world. At the general conference, October 6, 1852, President Brigham Young said: Joseph received the pattern of the temple in Kirtland, and said he to me, if this people would do as they are told, it would be superfluous to have a revelation. Some people are inclined to doubt the origin of the plan by which the Salt Lake temple was built, attributing the design of the temple to this or that man. The following quotations ought to settle that question once and for all: On February 14, 1853, in the ceremonies attendant upon the dedication of the temple site, President Young said: "It matters not whether we will be permitted to enjoy the temple we are about to build, or be driven from it the day after it is finished;  it is for us to do our duty and leave the event with our heavenly Father, and let him do as it seemeth him good with his own house. "Some might query whether a revelation had been given to build a house to the Lord, but he is a wicked and slothful servant who doeth nothing but what his Lord commandeth, when he knoweth his Master's will. I know a temple is needed, and so do you;  and when we know a thing, why do we need a revelation to compel us to do that thing? If the Lord and all the people want a revelation, I can give one concerning this temple. "In a few days I shall be able to give a plan of the temple on paper, and then if all heaven, or any good man on the earth will suggest any improvements, we will receive and adopt them." Again from the "Deseret News" of same date, we quote: "The president briefly recounted many vicissitudes through which the Church had passed, the difficulties they had had to encounter in Ohio, Missouri, and Illinois, and how they had been led by an overGUIDE LESSONS 661 ruling Providence to this consecrated spot;  that seven years tomorrow he left Nauvoo, not knowing which way he should go, only as he had learned by dreams, and visions, and revelations;  that there was a good place for the Saints in the mountains;  and that when he arrived on the spot where he then was, he declared that here was the place for a temple, though the valley had not then been explored. Messengers had gone to the north, to the west, and to the south, to find a better place, but they had found nothing better." (There were many witnesses present who would have testified to this truth, had they been called on. — Editor, News.) At the April conference following, 1854, he said: I scarcely ever say much about revelations, or visions, but suffice it to say, five years ago last July I was here, and saw in the spirit the temple not ten feet from where we have laid the chief cornerstone. I have not inquired what kind of a temple we should build. Why? Because it was represented before me. I never looked upon that ground, but the vision of it was there. I see it as plainly as if it were in reality before me. Wait until it is done. I will say, however, that it will have six towers, to begin with, instead of one. Now, do not any of you apostatize because it will have six towers, and Joseph only built one. It is easier for us to build sixteen, than it was for him to build one. The time will come when there will be one in the center of temples we shall build, and, on the top, groves and fish ponds. But we shall not see them here, at present. There is a most remarkable similitude between the plan thus revealed to President Brigham Young and that of a Nephite temple built in South America. (See "Relief Society Magazine," April, 1917.) Continuing, he said: I do not like to prophesy much, I never do, but I will venture to guess, that this day, and the work we have performed on it, will long be membered by this people, and be sounded as with a trumpet's voice throughout the world, as far, as loud, and as long as steam, wind, and the "electric current," (note this peculiar prophecy, and remember that it was delivered in 1854.) "can carry it. It is a day in which all the faithful will rejoice in all time to come. This I know — there should be a temple built here. I do know it is the duty of this people to commence to build a temple. Now, some will want to know what kind of a building it will be. Wait patiently, brethren, until it is done, and put forth your hands willingly to finish it. I know what it will be. I am not a visionary man, neither am I given much to prophesying, but I have seen this temple in vision. There was some discussion as to what building material should be used in the construction of the temple. President Young's mind associate was fixed, but he invited the opinion of his brethren. President Kimball said, October 9,1852: Brethren, shall we have the temple built of stone from Red Butte, adobies, rock, or the best stone the mountain affords? Motioned, that we build it of the best materials that can be got in the mountains. 
 President Kimball said again: He asked if we should build the temple, of stone from Red Butte, adobies, or rock from San Pete. We can build it of the very best material, for we have union, bone, marrow, and muscle. I would like to see something nice, and our president is perfectly able to give us a design of what we want for the Saints to get all their blessings in. President George A. Smith said at this same meeting: If there is the best stone or the best stick of timber in the mountains, it should be offered to the Lord. If we build of the best, the Lord will open the way for it to be got;  but if we build for the sake of the ordinances and not for worth or beauty of the structure, it will be a drag;  and if we build a splendid temple, property and everything else will increase in proportion, the Lord will accept it, nations will revere it, and the people from the four quarters of the earth will come to receive their endowments. He motioned, that we lay the foundation of the best stone, and build upon it of the best materials that Deseret will afford. Then President John Taylor remarked in seconding this motion: It would cost more money to build a house of stone than adobies. He showed that in England and France they fetch their stone for public buildings from a great distance, and at an immense expense. And if the Gentiles do it, in the name of God and common sense. I say, we must be a poor, miserable set of beings, if we cannot do the statements "We therein. are going If we to are receive our washings, cramped anointings,in and in our feelings endow-a building temple, we should feel afraid of having cramped blessings. And he seconded Elder Smith's motion. Through the winter of 1855, President Young built an endowment house in Salt Lake City, in which ordinances for the living were performed and later some baptisms and marriages for the dead, but no endowments for the dead. With enthusiasm he stirred the people to labor for the erection of a temple in Salt Lake City, then one in St. George, in Manti, and in Logan. He dedicated the temple in St. George, on January 1, 1877, and opened it for the first endowments for the dead ever offered, so far as is known, either in ancient or modern times. The following extracts from sermons preached by him in the Bowery in 1856, taken from Vols. 3 and 6 of the "Journal of Discourses," are full of suggestions: "Here is time, where is eternity? It is here just as much as anywhere in all the expanse of space;  a measured space of time is only a part of eternity. Page 369: "When the spirits of mankind leave their bodies, no matter whether the individual was a prophet or the meanest person that you could find, where do they go? To the spirit world. Where is it? I will tell you. "The spirit of Joseph, I do not know that it is just now in this bowery, but I will assure you that it is close to the Latter-day Saints, GUIDE LESSONS 663 is active in preaching to the spirits in prison and preparing the way to redeem the nations of the earth, those who lived in darkness previous to the introduction of the gospel by himself in these days. "He has just as much labor on hand as I have;  he has just as much to do. Father Smith and Carlos and Brother Partridge, yes, and every other good Saint, are just as busy in the spirit world as you and I are here. They can see us, but we cannot see them unless our eyes are opened. What are they doing there? They are preaching, preaching all the time, and preparing the way for us to hasten our work in building temples here and elsewhere, and to go back, to Jackson county and build the great temple of the Lord. They are hurrying to get ready by the time our elder brother is ready. But is Joseph glorified? No, he is preaching to the spirits in prison. He will get his resurrection the first of any one in this kingdom, for he was the first that God made choice of to bring forth the work of the last days. "Those who have died without the gospel are continually afflicted by those evil spirits, who say to them — 'Do not go to hear that man Joseph Smith preach, or David Patten, or any of their associates, for they are deceivers.' "Spirits are just as familiar with spirits as bodies are with bodies, though spirits are composed of matter so refined as not to be tangible to this coarser organization. They walk, converse, and have their meetings;  and the spirits of good men like Joseph and the elders, who have left this Church on earth for a season to operate in another sphere, are rallying all their powers and going from place to place preaching the gospel, and Joseph is directing them, saying: go ahead, my brethren, and if they hedge up your way, walk up and command them to disperse. You have the priesthood and can disperse them, but if any of them wish to hear the gospel, preach to them. "Can they baptize them? No. What can they do? They can preach the gospel, and when we have the privilege of building up Zion, the time will come for saviors to come up on Mount Zion. Some of those who are not in mortality will come along and say, 'Here are a thousand names I wish you to attend to in this temple, and when you have gotten through with them I will give you another thousand';  and the elders of Israel and their wives will go forth to officiate for their forefathers, the men for the men, and the women for the women. "A man is ordained and receives his washings, anointings, and endowments for the male portion of his and his wife's progenitors, and his wife for the female portion. "Then in the spirit world they will say, 'Do you not see somebody at work for you? The Lord remembers you and has revealed to his servants on the earth, what to do for you.' "Is the spirit world here? It is not beyond the sun, but is on this earth that was organized for the people that have lived and that do and will live upon it. No other people can have it, and we can have no other kingdom until we are prepared to inhabit this eternally. In the spirit world those who have got the victory go on to prepare the way for those who live in the flesh, fulfilling the work of saviors on Mount Zion. "To accomplish this work there will have to be not only one temple, but thousands of them, and thousands and tens of thousands of men and women will go into those temples and officiate for people who have lived as far back as the Lord shall reveal. If we are faith- 
 ful enough to go back and build that great temple which Joseph has written about, and should the Lord acknowledge the labor of his servants, then watch;  for you will see somebody whom you have seen before, and many of you will see him whom you have not seen before, but you will know him as soon as you see him. "This privilege we cannot enjoy now, because the power of Satan is such that we cannot perform the labor that is necessary to enable us to obtain it. "When we commence again on the walls of the temple to be built on this block, the news will fly from Maine to California. Who will tell them? Those little devils that are around here, that are around this earth in the spirit world;  there will be millions of them ready to communicate the news to devils in Missouri, Illinois, California, Mexico, and in all the world. And the question will be 'What is the news?' The answer will come;  'There is some devilish thing going on among the 'Mormons' and I know it. Those 'Mormons' ought to be killed.' They do not know what stirs them up to this feeling;  it is the evil spirits that are continually near them. "We all have good spirits to attend us;  when the eyes of the servant of Elijah were opened he saw that those for them, were more than those against them. There are two-thirds for us, and onethird against us;  and there is not a son or daughter of Adam but what will be saved in some kingdom and receive a glory and an exaltation to a degree, except those who have had the privileges of the gospel and rejected it and sinned against the Holy Ghost;  they will become servants to devils." QUESTIONS. 1. When was the Nauvoo temple built? 2. Who did the work therein? 3. When was the endowment house built? 4. Where is heaven? 5. What are the spirits of our prophets doing in paradise? 6. Have we enough temples now to do the work our people wish to do? 7. What can you say about the temple to be built in Jackson county, Missouri? 8. What more can you tell about Brigham Young's interest in temples? 9. Why do the Latter-day Saints desire to build temples? 10. Why dedicate a temple or a temple site? 11. Who planned the Salt Lake temple and who revealed the plan? 12. What can you say about building the temple of adobies, of concrete, of granite? 13. Describe the plan of the Salt Lake temple? 14. Give a sketch of its erection. When it was dedicated? By whom? GUIDE LESSONS 665 15. What can you say about the descendants of the pioneers and temple work? 16. What is peculiar about Brigham Young's prophecy concerning the electric current in 1854? LESSON II. WORK AND BUSINESS. Second Week in December. LESSON . BOOK OF MORMON. Third Week in December. (Optional.) Archaelogical Testimony. Subject: Positions of the Book Sustained by Archaelogical Testimony. Text: (See body of the lesson.) Aim: The first reward of truth is persecution, but it will triumph in spite of error. The purpose of this, the final lesson of the course, is the consideration of the seven statements (positions of the "Book of week Mormon") of November. as set up in our last lesson given in the third Very little comment will be indulged in owing to the fact that space will not permit, as we will have to quote extensively because the books are not generally accessible. Because the subject is so comprehensive and to save space the "positions" will not be treated chronologically. First, second, fourth and sixth positions: Three civilizations have existed, flourished, and decayed, upon parts of the continent, and one on nearly every part. Tersely stated, the book contends that upon this continent there were different civilizations by different peoples, namely: there was the Jaredite era, the oldest, then the Nephite era which absorbed the people of Mulek, after which the Lamanites reigned undisputed. The Jaredites confined themselves principally to North America, while the Nephites occupied both South and North America, as did also their conquerors, the Lamanites. Leading authorities on American antiquities and archaelogy do not hesitate to declare that there were different peoples and correspondingly different periods of civilization preceding the Aztec and the Inca period which dominated the 
 southern division of the continent at the time of the invasion by the Spanish party headed by Cortez. Now as to corroborative evidences 5f this contention the following is submitted: "The most ancient civilization on this continent, judging from the combined testimony of tradition, records, and architectural remains, was that which grew up under the favorable climate and geographical, surroundings which the Central American region southward of the Isthmus of Tehuantepec afforded." "Short's North American's of Antiquity," page 203). Baldwin says: "To find the chief seats and most abundant remains of the most remarkable civilization of this old American race, we must go still further south into Central America and some of the more southern states of Mexico. Here, ruins of ancient cities have been discovered, cities which must have been deserted and left to decay in ages previous to the beginning of the Aztec supremacy." — ("Ancient America," page 93.) Bancroft declares, "The oldest civilization in America which has left any traces for our consideration, whatever may have been its prehistoric origin, was that in the Usumacinta (Central American region) represented by the Palenque group of Guinn." ("Bancroft's Native Races," vol. 5, page 158, also page 230). We could go on multiplying the evidence in this particular, but it is not necessary. The foregoing is sufficient to show that archaelogy definitely fixes the oldest civilization of America where the "Book of Mormon" just as definitely describes it to have flourished. As to the Nephite era, coming centuries later than that of the Jaredites, it is almost universally agreed by noted writers on American antiquities and archaelogy, that the semicivilized peoples, the Incas and the Aztecs, reflected a civilization antedating their time. Prescott asserts that the source of this civilization (the Nephite) "is traced to the Valley of Cuzco, the central region of Peru; " a conclusion that is confirmed by "nearly every tradition," he says, and "by the imposing architectural remains which still endure, after the lapse South of so many years," on the borders of Lake Titicaca, America. Baldwin says: "The uniform and constant report of Peruvian tradition places the beginning of this old civilization in the Valley of Cuzco, near Lake Titicaca. There appeared the first civilizers and the first civilized communities." (Ancient America," page 236.) The evidence of repeated reconstructions in some of the cities before they were deserted has been pointed out by explorers. At Palenque, as at Mitla, the oldGUIDE LESSONS 667 est work is the most artistic and admirable. Over this feature of the monuments and the manifest signs of their difference in age, the attention of the investigators has lingered in speculation. They find in them a significance which is stated as follows by Brasseur de Bourbourg: "Among the edifices forgotten by time in the forests oi Mexico and Central America, we find architectural characteristics so different from each other, that it is as impossible to attribute them all to the same people as to believe they were all built at the same epoch." In this view, the substructions of Mayapan, some of those of Tulha, and a great part of those at Palenque, are among the older remains. These are not the oldest cities whose remains are still visible, but they may have been built in part, upon the foundations of citiesmuch more ancient." (Baldwin's "Ancient America," page 156.) Here, then, are the two different and distinct civilizations, both of a high order of development, not one barbarous nation coming after and occupying the land where a highly civilized nation had builded, but one highly cultivated and enlightened at the outset following and building upon the ruins of another. Again, in a work entitled, "Mound Builders' Works and Relics," by S. D. Peet, page 21. we read: "We may say that the evidences are numerous, that the people who built the mounds in the Mississippi valley belonged to different races and occupied the country at different periods, and may have come from different sources. Traditions of the Indians prove that the lands have been inhabited by different races and at different periods. Nowhere, however, is it claimed that the Indians were the first people who occupied the country, or that their ancestors were the first race who built the mounds." This evidence is supported by Bandelier, "Archaelogical Tour in Mexico," page 261;  Prof. H. W. Hayes, page 329;  "Narrative, Critical and Historical," vol. 1, by Justin Winsor, and many other reliable authorities. Here, then, we have evidences of two or more civilizations, established by archaeological research and in harmony with the "Book of Mormon." This fact was never known or published to the world until many years after the publication of the "Book of Mormon." Third — One of the most striking positions taken by the book is that the earliest civilization, as well as the other which followed, was originally of a high order of excellence. They did not begin low and end high, but on the contrary, they are described by the book to have been at their best in their earlier history, and to have declined until they no 
 longer could successfully resist their enemies and finally were overcome and superceded by a savage people. This fact confronts the student of history at the outset and gives him not a little anxiety and confusion as he seeks the solution for such an arbitrary condition. When he analyzes the situation in Europe he comes to a conclusion diametrically opposed to the position. In every land, except those probably where a higher civilization has influenced and directed the natives, as in the case of colonization, the course of the progress of civilization has without exception been from the lower to the higher. In this connection Short says: "The eras or ages which have been observed to mark the different stages of the development of prehistoric man in Europe are apparently 27.) reversed in America." ("North Americans of Antiquity," page Fourth — As to the arts and sciences possessed by these early civilizations, Baldwin says: "They had a standard of measurement and had a means of determining angles" ;  "made use of astronomical instruments";  "they were agriculturists and also engaged in spinning and weaving" ;  "possessed knowledge of the science, and metals, and used tools of porphyry." ("Ancient America," pages 24-42.) Prescott says in speaking of the Peruvians: "Husbandry was pursued by them on principles that may be truly called scientific." The Peruvians showed great skill in the manufacture of different articles for the royal household from this delicate material, which, under the name of "vigonia" wool, is now familiar to the looms of Europe. It was wrought into shawls, robes, and other articles of dress for the monarch, and into carpets, coverlets, and hangings for the imperial palaces and temples. The cloth was finished on both sides alike;  the delicacy of the texture was such as to give it the lustre of silk;  and the brilliancy of the dyes excited the admiration and the envy of the European artisans." They manufactured jewelry and ornaments;  "utensils of every description, some of fine clay, and many more of copper;  mirrors of a hard polished stone, or burnished silver, with a great variety of other articles." ("Conquest of Peru," vol. 1,page 31.) "They had great skill in the art of working metals, especially gold and silver. Besides these precious metals, they had copper, tin, lead, and quicksilver." "Their goldsmiths and silversmiths had attained very great proficiency. They could melt the metals in furnaces, cast them in molds of clay or gypsum, hammer their work with remarkable dexterity, inlay GUIDE LESSONS 669 solder it, and 248, it with great perfection." ("Ancient America,"' pages 249.) Fifth — The book asserts, "And they also had horses, and asses, and there were elephants and cureloms and cumoms, etc., etc." (Ether 9:18 and 19.) For many years the book was viciously attacked on this point;  but of recent years so much evidence has been found of the domestic animals, of the ox, the sheep, the swine, the goat, and the horse, that it is not necessary here to utilize space to reproduce them. Regarding the horse we introduce the testimony of Prof. O. C. Marsh, in an address before the American Association for the Advancement of Science, Nashville, Tenn., August 30, 1877, page 30: "When a student in Germany, some twelve years ago, I heard a world-renowned professor of zoology gravely inform his pupils that the horse was a gift of the old world to the new;  and was entirely unknown in America until introduced by the Spaniards. After the lecture I asked him whether no earlier remains of horses had been found on this continent, and was told in reply that the reports to that effect were too unsatisfactory to be presented as facts in science. This remark led me on my return to examine the subject myself, and I have since unearthed with my own hands not less than thirty distinct species of the horse tribe in the tertiary deposits of the west alone." For years after the critics of the book had been silenced as far as the more common domestic animals are concerned by just such testimony as the above, these same skeptics ridiculed the idea that the elephant had ever been coexistent with prehistoric man on this continent as the book emphatically declared. It is probable, too. that even a few members of the Church were more or less skeptical in this particular. For the benefit of these the following is offered: "In the United States we detect also some evidences of the coexistence of man and extinct species of quadrupeds. Doctor Koch, in the reconstruction that he had found of the in Missouri "Tertiarysuch Zenglodin," insisted an association long ago of mastadon and Indian remains as to prove that the two had lived contemporaneously. have I myself observed the bones of the mastodon and elephant imbedded in peat at depths so shallow that I could readily believe the animals to have occupied the country during its possession by the Indian;  and gave publication to this conviction in 1862. ]\lore recently. Prof. Holmes, of Charlestown, has informed the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia that he finds upon the banks of the Ashley river (Utah) a remarkable conglomeration of fossil remains, in deposits of post-tertiary age. Remains of the hog, the 
 horse, and other animals of recent date, together with human bones, stones and arrow heads, hatchets and fragments of pottery, are there lying mingled with the bones of the mastodon (elphant) and extinct gigantic lizards." ("Sketches or Creation," by Winchell, page 356, edition of 1874.) Seventh — Now as to the nativity of the last civilized people who inhabited America, the following conclusions from Mr. George Catlin, are here given: "The North American Indians and all the inhabitants of the South Sea Islands, speaking some two or three hundred different languages entirely dissimilar, may have all sprung from one people. I believe with many others that the North American Indians are a mixed people. That they have Jewish blood in their veins, though I would not assert as some have undertaken to prove, that they are Jews, or that they are the ten lost tribes of Israel. From the character and composition of their heads, I am compelled to look upon them as an amalgam race, but still savages, and from many of their customs, which seem to me peculiarly Jewish, as well as from the character of their heads, I am forced to believe that some part of those ancient tribes who have been dispersed by Christians in so many ways, and in so many different eras, have found their way to this country where they have entered among the native to 235.)stock." ("North American Indians," vol. 2, pages 231 Mr. Catlin then offers the following twelve reasons why he accepted the idea that the American Indians are descended from the Israelites: 1. "The Jews had their Sanctum Sanctorum, and so it may be said the Indians have, in their council, or medicine houses, which are always held as sacred places." 2. "As the Jews had, they have their high priests and their prophets." 3. "Among the Indians as among the ancient Hebrew:-, the women are not allowed to worship with the men, and in all cases also, they eat separately." 4. "The Indians everywhere believe that they are certainly like those ancient people, persecuted, as every man's hand seemed raised against them." 5. "In their marriages, the Indians, as did the ancient Jews, uniformly buy their wives by giving presents, and in many tribes, very closely resemble" them in other forms and ceremonies of their marriages." 6. "In their preparation for war, and in peacemaking, they are strikingly similar." GUIDE LESSONS 671 7. "In their treatment of the sick, burial of the dead and mourning, they are also similar." 8. "In their bathing and ablutions, at all seasons of the year, as a part of their religious observances — having separate places for men and women to perform these immersions — they resemble again." 9. "The custom among the women of absenting themselves during the lunar influences, is exactly consonant to the Mosaic law." 10. "After this season of separation, purification in running water and anointing, precisely in accordance with the Jewish command, is required before she can enter the family lodge." 11. "Many of them have a feast closely resembling the annual feasts of the Jewish Passover, and amongst others, an occasion much like the Israelitish feast of the tabernacle, which lasted eight days (when history tells us they carried bundles of willow boughs and fasted several days and nights), making sacrifices of the first fruits and best of everything, closely resembling the sin offering and peace offering of the Hebrews." 12. "Amongst the list of their customs, however, we meet a number which had their origin, it would seem, in the 'Jewish Ceremonial Code,' and which are so very peculiar in their forms that it would seem quite improbable, and almost impossible that two different peoples should have hit upon them alike, without some knowledge of each other. These I consider go further than anything else as evidence, and carry in my mind, conclusive proof that these people are tinctured with Jewish blood." In keeping with the above conclusions comes the following evidence: On October 13, 1902, in company with T. E. Pomeroy, then president of the Mexican Mission, and Dr. Clarence Snow, I visited Dr. Agustus Le Plongeon at his residence, 18 Sidney Place, Brooklyn, New York. I knew that he had spent about fifteen years in Mexico and Central America studying the archaelogy of the country and that the better part of his life had been devoted to the study of the races which inhabited this continent prior to the discovery by Columbus. We were anxious, therefore, to learn from him, his opinion or estimate of the historical data as given in the "Book of Mormon." In response to my question, he said, "The author of the 'Book of Mormon' knew more about Ancient America than all of the scientific men Snow,of that to day." He also the facts said, in response contained the book to could a question from been not have Dr. guessed or reasoned out. Its author, he thought, might have been clairvoyant. He used this term instead of "inspired" because Mrs. Le Plongeon was at that time making a study of spiritualism. John G. McQuarrie. 
 THE GREAT EXPERIENCE. A New Book by Julia Farr. The local author, Julia Farr, has written another excellent, interesting, and faith-promoting novel. It is filled with the struggles and spiritual triumphs of a charming convert to the truth. Every line of the book is full of interest and conforms, very generally, to the canons of truth. We heartily recommend it to our readers as a worthy addition to Relief Society libraries and to the homes of the people. Third Week in December, (Optional.) TENNYSON'S "IN MEMORIAM." It is most interesting to trace the chronology of "In Memoriam." Arthur Hallam died on the 15th. day of September, 1832, in the city of Vienna. The poet marks the time in the poem by noting particularly the return of each Christmas. The first Christmas after Hallam's death, Tennyson is at his boyhood home in Somersly, Lincolnshire. It is a particularly interesting description we get of his native village, on that Christmas morning when he writes: "The time draws near the birth of Christ, The moon is hid, the night is still;  The Christmas bells, from hill to hill. Answer each other in the mist. "Four voices of four hamlets round. From far and near on mead and moor, Swell out and fail, as if a door Were shut between me and the sound." It is very doubtful if in all England another village could be found where the chime of the Christmas bells might be heard from four hamlets at the same time. The seasons come and go, and the first anniversary of Hallam's death is marked with the lines, "Resist thou thus, dim dawn, again. And how lest, issuing out of night. With blasts that blow the poplar white, And lash with storm the streaming pane." GUIDE LESSONS 673 Then comes the second Christmas tide when the poet writes: "Again at Christmas did we weave The holly round the Christmas hearth, The silent snow possessed the earth, And calmly fell our Christmas eve. "The yule-log sparkled keen with frost, No wing of wind the region swept, But over all things brooding slept The quiet sense of something lost." Again does the poet trace spring, summer, and autumn, which brings us to the second anniversary of the death of the beloved friend, referred to in the wonderful lines: "Risest thou thus, dim dawn, again. So loud with voices of the birds;  So thick with lowings of the herds, Day when I lost the flower of men." Christmas is once more at hand, and the poet tells us that he will quit the note of mourning;  so he ushers in the new year with that famous poem, whose first line is: "Ring out wild bells, to the wild sky." The time covered is about two and one-half years. Yet interesting as it is to trace the chronological development of the poem, it is vastly more interesting to trace the changes bereavement terrible that take place in the to poet's and tried reconcile soul himself as he to faces his his loss. It is a soul's struggle from the beginning to the end. The poet images the ship that brought his "Arthur's loved remains." and finally the burial at Clevedon, on Bristol channel, the home of his maternal grandfather. At first he can not separate his feelings and thoughts from the body of his friend;  he lingers about the grave, in his thoughts and in his feelings. "Old yew, which graspest at the stems That name the underlying dead, Thy fibers net the dreamless head, Thy roots are wrapt about the bones. 
 " 'Tis well;  'tis something, we may stand Where he in English earth is laid, And from the ashes may be made The violet of his native land. " 'Tis Little, but it looks, in truth. As if the quiet bones were blest Among familiar names to rest And in the places of his youth." Later he seems to give little thought to the mortal remains; rather he is occupied with what his friend may be doing in that other world to which he has gone. He quite naturally desires to see him, and longs, as many people do at the present time, for a visit from the dead. He wonders if the dead can see the living through and through, and is gripped with the fancy that perchance he has some baseness that were better hidden from the dead;  but he finally concludes that it is within the province of the dead to make allowance for the weakness of the living: "Do we, indeed, desire the dead Should still be near us at our side? Is there no baseness we would hide? No inner vileness that we dread? "Shall he for whose applause I strove, I had such reverence for his blame. See with clear eye some hidden shame t And I be lessen'd in his love? "I wrong Shall the love grave with fears be blamed untrue, for want of faith? There must be wisdom with great dead. The dead shall look me through and through. "Be near me when we climb or fall. Ye watch like God the rolling hours With larger other eyes than ours. To make allowance for us all." Always until we near the close of the poem, the poet thinks of his friend as an individual, and in that entirely natural way that the Latter-day Saints think of their dead. He feels that he must be growing, for to think of Arthur Hallam as other than one who is constantly progressing, is GUIDE LESSONS 675 quite impossible. He has no quarrel with death, as a condition, his quarrel with death is that it separates: "I wage not any feud with death For changes wrought on farm and face, No lower life that earth's embrace May breed with him can fright my faith. "Eternal process moving on, From state to state the spirit walks. And these are but the shattered stalks, Or ruined chrysalis of one. "Nor blame I death, because he bare • The use of virtue out of earth, I know transplanted human worth Will bloom to profit, other where. "For this alone on death I wreak The wrath that garners in my heart. He put our lives so far apart We cannot hear each other speak." Later Tennyson departs from this method of thought, so wholly natural to him, it would seem, as well as to the Latter-day Saints, and thinks of his friend as part and parcel of the great universe. In this notion he was following the belief of the so-called cultured group of his period, the intellectual highbrows of his time, and very possibly could not bear to stand apart from them for he writes: "Thy voice is in the rolling air, I hear thee where the waters run, Thou standest in the setting sun, And in the setting thou art fair." The poem ends with a note of hope. The poet has made up his mind that to carry his grief longer means to incapacitate him for the duties of life. He leads his sister, Cecelia, to the marriage alter, and gives her to Professor Lushington, whom he accepts in friendship as next to Arthur Hallam. The poem closes with the idea that his friend, who was of such nobility, that he appeared before the time was ripe, for such as he, lives in God. 
 "That God which ever Hes and loves, One God, one law, one element. And one far-off divine event, To which the whole creation moves." The poem is replete with beautiful imagery and intense appreciation for nature so characteristic of Tennyson. He includes one stanza that appears to be a veritable boquet of flowers. It makes us think of Dr. Holmes' famous statement about being a florist, in verse: "Bring orchids, bring the foxglove spire, The little speedwell's darling blue. Deep tulip dashed with fiery due. Laburnums dropping — wells of fire." QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS. 1. Read the entire section relating to the first Christmas after the bereavement? 2. Why are holidays apt to emphasize a loss? 3. Tennyson is fearful that his friend, Arthur Hallam, may advance so rapidly in the spirit world that he will be far ahead of him when his call comes. Are you conscious of ever having a similar thought in relation to your loved ones? If not a personal thought, did you ever hear any one express such a thought? 4. Is it natural for people in the first stages of the shock that comes with death to linger over the remains and graves of the beloved? 5. What gospel teachings are in accord with Tennyson's idea of growth and advancement after death? 6. What gospel teachings are in direct opposition to Tennyson's idea of the spirit of man after death being diffused throughout nature? 7. How many flowers does Tennyson mention in the lat stanza quoted in your lesson? 8. Which of these flowers are you acquainted with? 9. Which have you grown? LESSON IV. SOCIAL SERVICE. (Required.) Fourth Week in December. HEALTH. Communicable diseases are transmitted by (1) direct contact with diseased persons;  (2) contact once removed;