[Vol51 | May 1964 | Page 339 | Special Feature | Art As a Hobby Myrtle | E. Henderson]

art
as a Hobby

Myrtle E. Henderson, M.A.
Former Head, Speech
Department, Dixie College

Do you have time on your hands? Are you feeling discouraged by the monotony of doing the same routine things every day? Are you a young homemaker with energy to spare? Have you been retired from your job or position, and do you feel that your life is ended, and any creative ability you ever had is dying within you? Have your children grown up and established homes of their own? If your answer is yes to any one of these questions, then you need a challenging, exciting hobby that will last a lifetime. May I suggest that the study of art appreciation and painting may be one answer to your problem. Now don't say no until you have thought about the possibilities.

A Good Beginning

Let's begin simply by seeing the beauty around us — perhaps as an artist would see it. Look at the changing patterns of the clouds, the soft tints or flaming glow of a sunset or being; feel the softening rays of the moon; behold the majesty of snow-covered mountains; see the long shadows and hear the whispering leaves in the depths of the woods; become aware of the motion of a field of golden grain as the wind sweeps over it in waves.

If we see things in this way, we are using as many of our five senses as possible, and, like the artist, we will see more beauty than we had dreamed there was around us.

The Art of Appreciation

Another helpful and enlightening step in our adventure into art is to learn to understand and appreciate paintings. Find out what has gone into them, what are their values, and what makes them good or poor. Let's see what an artist has said about pictures. One critic suggests that pictures make their appeal to individuals through their beauty of line, the quality of their color, or through the interest in their patterns. We can learn to appreciate line, color, and pattern for their own sake, and then a picture does not need to tell a story. Art appeals to the sight as well as to the imagination. Paintings may be an interpretation rather than a photographic representation of the subject. Leave the exact details to the camera.

Design in Paintings

My art teacher said often that pictures should not be "too busy," meaning there should not be too many points of interest or

339

MAY 1964

too many objects. Look for simplicity of design. There should be a focal point — a way to get "into" a picture. For example, in a landscape, let the eye follow down a road, or a stream, or the sun path on a lake, or, maybe, down a street or a path in the woods. Beautiful shape and color lines can claim artistic value, but they should not be spoiled by being too ornate. Overdecoration in anything reflects lack of taste and discrimination — in a home as well as in pictures.

Rhythm and Movement

In evaluating a painting, an artist will be aware of the qualities of rhythm and movement in the picture and will feel the texture of different objects. Now perhaps you are thinking, "Texture and movement, and color and shadow I can understand, but what about rhythm?" Artists tell us that rhythm is the quality of flowing lines, of lovely curves and shapes that answer and complement each other. The changing shape of clouds makes a kind of rhythm, flowers have different rhythms, as the daisy has a circular rhythm, the blades of grass growing together have an upreaching rhythm. So, in drawing flowers, the leaves and main line of growth must repeat each other in pattern, and the pattern should be accentuated in the drawing.

Arrangement of Objects

When an artist looks at a painting or a landscape to paint, he is attracted not only by objects, but by the arrangement of what he sees. Objects are grouped together to form a particular landscape, as trees, fields,

and rocks. He sees also an arrangement of qualities in color and line. He sees objects in relation to their background and surroundings. He sees the green of the trees in relation to the green or blue or purple of the distant hills. He sees the vertical lines of the trunks of the trees in relation to the horizontal lines of the lake shore or the horizon. All this beauty reaches out to him, and he feels it and wants to express it on his canvas.

Painting Is a Natural Impulse

Perhaps, if we learn to see things as the artist sees them, and to understand art, we, too, may have the urge to paint what we see. Do I hear you say, "Oh, I could never paint a picture!" How do you know? Have you ever tried? One of the greatest teachers of drawing in America, said that the impulse to draw is as natural as the impulse to talk. We learn to talk by simple words and sounds at first, and by much repetition, and we can learn to draw and paint in the same way. True, few of us may become great artists, but just beginning to paint can be a rewarding experience, and a world of pleasure can be derived from it. Don't worry if, for the first few months, your drawing doesn't resemble anything called art. It has been said that the sooner you make your first five thousand mistakes, the sooner you can correct them.

I know a woman who did not even try to paint until she was forty years of age. Her mother's poor health made it necessary for her to give up her office work and stay home to take care of her. She needed something to

340

ART AS A HOBBY

take up her spare time. At the suggestion of her neighbor, who was a good amateur artist, she tried painting. She had no training in art, but now, after five years, she does some beautiful work, and is hoping to make a business of it. People bring her colored snapshots of scenes they have photographed on their vacations, or pictures from other sources, and she reproduces them in oils. She takes orders for paintings in certain shades and colors to blend into the colors of the room for which they are intended. One of the greatest joys this woman has, since her mother has passed away, is to take her paints and go out into the hills and paint from nature.

You say you are too old to learn to paint? Haven't you heard of Grandma Moses, who began to paint when she was nearly eighty? Grandma Moses started working pictures in worsted. After she was afflicted with arthritis in her hands, it was difficult for her to hold the needle. Her sister suggested that she try painting, since it might be easier to hold the brushes. So she began to paint. She thought painting was a very pleasant hobby, if one did not have to hurry. In her autobiography, she tells how she began to paint a picture. She secured the frame, then sawed masonite board to fit the frame.

Then she went over the board with linseed oil, and then with three coats of flat paint. She used masonite because it would last longer than canvas.

Materials

How to get materials may be a problem to you. Let me suggest what there are many excellent water color sets that are inexpensive. A box of eight colors and one brush can be purchased for one dollar, or a box of sixteen colors and one brush, for two dollars. The same colors come in tubes in boxes containing different numbers of tubes and two brushes. These are very good colors, but are a little more expensive. Drawing pads will need to be purchased with the paints. Oil paints can be purchased in tubes separately or in complete kits. With the oil painting one will need oil cups, spatula, palette, and, at least three different sizes of brushes. The canvas may be obtained in a roll or on boards.

We may never paint masterpieces, but we can enter the marvelous creative world of form and rhythm, pattern, and texture and color. We can reach out and select and use and retain, against time, the evanescent beauty in the landscape of our days. We can enlarge our vision and our appreciation of the magnificent universe.

Today is here. It is new, it is NOW. Forget yesterday, which is gone. Use Today as best you can. You are sure of it, and nothing more. Begin here and now.
—Zara Sabin

341
