[Vol51 | May 1964 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: 328 Literary Contest Announcements]
Literary.txt) ===
which I mean that great part of our poetic literature from ''Beowulf" to Robert Frost's "Death of the Hired Man," in which the reader identified himself or herself with the characters, understood the ideals by which they lived and for which they died, and, knowing them, cast a light on the reader's own problems and purposes. From generation to generation through centuries, these poems have shed their influence on the growth of civilization as we know it. No one has so far created a satisfactory answer to the question: What is a poem? We can only open little doors. Poems resemble apples. They are of in- - finite variety, from the pretty but pulpless rose pip to the luscious Golden Delicious. A poem must be attractive in form to entice the reader, have meat you can sink your mental teeth into, a flavor that delights, excites, and satisfies, a core of wisdom, and seeds to project into other hearts and, perhaps, into the future. And, like the tree, a poem must have a reservoir of food from which to draw its sustenance. Now, how do you fill this reservoir? You Learn Fundamentals FIRST — A beginning poet needs a good rhyming dictionary, for, whether or not she ever intends to write rhyming verse, she should know what she is using or rejecting and give her poetry a chance to shape its own form before it is born. Besides, a rhyming dictionary, at least the one you will buy or own, begins with a chapter which explains and illustrates feet, meter, verse, variations, and stanza forms, and does it imterestingly and enjoyably. You will find as you study that you have already picked up subconsciously, through reading, many of the patterns and devices explained here. For instance, everyone, poet or layman, is aware of meter and rhyme to some degree. But the _ other phases of the subject, you can study and learn and store in the reservoir of your subconscious so they will be as automatic as your grammar and English usage. SECOND — Increase your vocabulary. A good 'Thesaurus helps here. It groups words and phrases on specific subjects and presents them _ alphabetically, words that convey kindness, for instance, classifying them as to nouns, verbs, adjectives, and ad- 


 verbs, and including phrases as well as words. A good vocabulary includes the knowledge of the different meanings of a word. Merriam-Webster's Unabridged lists at least thirteen different meanings for the word take. You should study, at the same time, the values in letters and their play on the emotions. There are _ liquid sounds like / and r, sibilants like s, dentals like d and t. Live with them, roll them around on your tongue, feel them, so that when you need them they cluster around a thought as iron filings collect on a magnet. THIRD — Be natural. Write in the language of today as you speak, not in the vintage of an older day when words like o'er and e'er were in common usage and so are found in poetry also. Above all, let your language be sincere and natural, not necessarily conscious of being written. FOURTH — Read, read, and read. Especially read history, geography, the classics, and the Bible. Familiarize yourself with the general sciences — botany, geology, ornithology, and with philosophies and doctrines. From these spring your future allusions and images, and knowledge deepens your thinking and enhances your expression. FIFTH — Be aware. Make friends with all the living things about you. Know the shape of a leaf, its feel and texture; know the grasses, the bark of trees.

Be aware of color in everything, petals, sky, old wood, rushes and reeds, earth and sea, everywhere. Become acutely aware of sounds and forms. Increase your interest and wonder. And store all 332 this as naturally as your body accepts its food. SIXTH — Write. Try out various meters, verse and _ stanza forms. Try out your thoughts. Let them flow. Criticize your technique afterward, but do not let it impede the flow. SEVENTH — and _ perhaps most important — Find the inner you.

=== OVERLAP TRIM (from V51_05_10_Fict_Gramps_Thulin.txt) ===
Jayne Baker Spain, president and owner of the AlveyFerguson Company, in Cincinnati, Ohio, manufacturers. Of conveying equipment for industry, employs blind workers to assemble conveyers. In Salonica, Greece, she was asked to prepare an exhibit for the annual International Trade Fair there. This she did, but since all workers were expected to be Greek, she taught six Greek boys and girls who were blind how to assemble a wheel conveyer moving materials around factories and warehouses. They fitted together 451 small parts, threading fifty axles through one hundred and twenty skate wheels, applying dozens of bolts and tightening them to an exact degree of tension. Visitors to the fair found this sight incredible. The human §achievement was far greater than the industrial. Mrs. Mary Loveless of Cornell University Medical College, New York, has been working for seventeen years on immunizing patients allergic to the stings of various kinds of bees. She captures bees, then, with a delicate operation, removes the venom sac for the innoculating agent. Having done this more than thirty thousand times, she can now do a bee a minute. Bee stings are very harmful to many people, in certain instances even causing death. Tue third annual Shakespearean Festivel on the College of Southern Utah campus (Cedar City, Utah) which will be presented July 9 through 25, will include "Twelfth Night," 'Macbeth," and "Midsummer Night's Dream," in rotation. Last year Festival goers were counted from thirty-eight States and a dozen foreign countries. Mrs. Lee Thompson assists in the costume department, and Kahiki Long, a student from California, will handle lighting, as she has since the inception of the Festival in 1962.

=== OVERLAP TRIM (from V51_05_19_Poem_Memory_Wilson.txt) ===
summer noon. There is a canyon green, And meadows over-strewn With bluebells and wild flags. A little ice-cold stream Flows noisily along The middle of my dream. Summer Song Linnie F. Robinson The apple trees are dappled silver This afternoon of waning spring; The cherries hang in shining rows And all the birds have come to sing. The dahlias push up mighty shoots Where giadiolas knife the loam; And mountain shadows beckon me To follow if I chance to roam. I marvel that I view this day, New as when light was first unrolled; This morning's red and fiery shafts Turn evening lowlands into gold. And all around where I can see — Such beauty makes me sing a song; I hear it in the harp-like trees And in the grasses, lithe and long. We Pass But Once

=== OVERLAP TRIM (from V51_05_20_Poem_Summer_Robinson.txt) ===
Pass But Once Catherine B. Bowles The evening shades had fallen And my long day's work was done. Was I a little better Than when my labors had begun? Had kindly words been spoken, Had a heart been filled with cheer, Had I lent a helping hand To