[Vol51 | May 1964 | Sequence: 10 | Category: General Feature | Title: 348 Editorial: The Lighted Window Vesta P. Crawford]
lighted remarks had subsided, we set about building our own desserts. This treat alone has proved to be quite successful in our own family for planning parties and Church get-togethers. It is great fun, very little work for the hostess, and has special appeal for youngsters and. Oldsters of every age. And it is interesting to observe how many exciting personalities a build-yourown dessert can have!. Suggested toppings: Chocolate, caramel, butterscotch, marshmallow. Fruit toppings: strawberry, pineapple, boysenberry, raspberry, peach. Other trimmings: nuts, coconut, seedless grapes, maraschino cherries. Janet W. Breeze Are your little ones learning to dress themselves? Iron _ four-color transfers onto the fronts of undershirts and panties for fewer turnabouts. 367 ;; ) rT? " Sn Lf ry; Ji J i, 7 >. 7 Peet ibei. I}} Home Leona Fetzer Wintch a = Home, Our Heaven on Earth I alee' it wonderful that we can come home to spout off pent-up feelings that need to be released? We cannot do this in public, so we sometimes behave worst around those whom we love the most. This letting off steam should not be frequent, however. Yet, some explodings, raised voices, and tears of children (and others who are not yet angels) come with disagreements that are a process of growth. The voicing of some differences can, at times, be wholesome. We can even say, "Happy is the home where enlightened discussions characterize the communication between family members." Home should be a calm refuge, a place of warmth, fragrant with kindness. None of us can stand pressures all day long and come home to more of them without having the mortar of life washed out of us. The father of the home likes to have his surroundings neat and pleasing, but when he has to be careful where he sits, be becomes confused and unhappy. To be harassed during work hours and again at home harrows the heart of any man. But if home is a refuge from tensions and frustrations, the peace and love he feels become an annealing balm to him. With the oil of gladness crowning him, he can see unlimited horizons and meet daily challenges with new physical and mental vigor. The demanding, stampeding world can be better met by all of us if we find replenishment in this haven, our heaven on earth. To Be or to Do? That Is the Question D° you sometimes feel compelled to keep moving, going, and doing, even after you are exhausted or have time off? The value of this kind of "busy work" is questionable, because it is not motivated by wholesome purposiveness. The next time you drive yourself without knowing why, reflect on Emerson's saying that it is easier to do than to be. Philosophers have talked about this for centuries, and today psychologists underline the words. When we are insistent on doing rather than being, it is time to become analytical. It is possible that we keep on the go to avoid ourselves, since when we hurry around, we do not have time to measure our goals or our true situations. Then we almost have to force ourselves to find a quiet space and re-evaluate the very factors in our lives that we are trying to repress. The serenity we seek can only come when we face ourselves, because satisfying relationships with others depend on our own good relationships with ourselves. We often harrow our inner peace with bitter ashes of regret. At least weekly, we should take stock of ourselves, repent, partake of the sacrament, and then turn our energies to self-fulfillment. Then we can be, as well as do. 368 Care of a be tion to her f. Autiful garden 369 Alma A. Fernelius, Ogden, Utah, rk, garden work her pr incipal as, Le we ae Bie eatReR TE barre Hom asad —S ret detiey Mr aS. Zt aa eat + sese RS BOMRSRE Ae OL Pa an ve ads Ve Mare @ 4 ue varae & BPR, S*avebee Meoer pee sae Aig oe 24 3 * \ ptarat ev ieae res aot Re osy ae Oey Sere +e Rea Som as a 3 Be wee Ope 290.) ang Py ayers wrote atasenieys *) Parare ae rarer esis Ss Fae seetesig, FON ray fatates fate renee ri rane' i Be. * R.? " Bayt PEL IET TT. Rv 4 dvesger. Parnas heehee y a3 'am {8a ') 9 Pe) je rr): 3 ' Hazel M. Thomson Synopsis: Selena and Belle Baldwin, sisters, arrive in the Valley of the Great Salt Lake, after traveling across the plains in a company commanded by Lon Holiday, captain of fifty, and Josiah Blodgett, captain of ten. Selena, whose fiancé died at Winter Quarters, is bitter over her loss and cannot be comforted. Belle and Josiah are married immediately after the arrival of the wagon train in the Valley. They decide to accompany the saints who are leaving for San Bernardino, California, to make a settlement there. Selena is invited to accompany Belle and Josiah, and Lon, still in love with Selena, decides to go with the company. Lon was silent for some time, waging a battle within himself, between what he wanted to do and the thing he felt was right and honorable. Belle, too, lapsed into silence, taking a deep interest in the country around her, as she did wherever she traveled. As they watched the beautiful mountains, both Lon and Belle could see the lead wagons pulling off to the side to stop for the night. Some of the people in the 370 CHAPTER 4 wagon train would find friends here at Provo. This night there would be singing and dancing and the renewal of friendships. Cabin doors would be thrown open to bid the travelers welcome, and hot meals would be provided through the hospitality of these saints, so recently on the trail themselves. "TI can't do it, Belle,' Lon finally said. "You can't do it? But why, Lon?" "Selena doesn't know her own mind right now. I can't ask her to marry me yet." "I'm giving you fair warning, Lon. I know how long you have been in love with my sister, but if you stand by and let this Alfred Quale step into Selena's life you'll not be doing her any favor." "How can you be so sure, Belle? He might be a whole lot better Latter-day Saint than I am. What do you have against him, anyway?" Belle looked at Lon in amazement. "T can't understand you, Lon Holiday, to take such an attitude in this. I guess I've been wrong from the start. I thought you were in love with Selena."' "T am in love with her, Belle, and that's the very reason I can't take advantage of her unhappiness and ask her to marry me when she's in such a state of indecision about everything." "Tl get down now, if you please," Belle said. "Sorry to have bothered you, Lon." "Belle," pleaded Lon, as he drew the horses to a halt, '"'please don't misunderstand me. You know what Selena means to me." "IT know that if this Alfred keeps coming around, and she decides to marry him it will be your fault," said Belle as she jumped to the ground and headed for her own wagon. AFTER the meeting at which the final organization for travel was worked out, everyone being notified as to whether they were to be in Brother Lyman's group or the remaining half of the wagons which Brother Rich would lead, there was a party of good will held for the travelers. When the dancing began there was Alfred, just as Belle had feared, offering his arm to Selena. Where was Lon? Belle wondered. He had been right there by Josiah just a moment ago. As Selena accepted the invitation and moved onto the roughhewn boards that served as a floor in this building used both for recreation and worship, Belle looked up at Josiah.

=== OVERLAP TRIM (from V51_05_03_SpFt_