[Vol51 | May 1964 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Frontispiece | Title: I Am Crowded Within — Frontispiece Margery S. Stewart 321 Secret | Author: Ida Elaine James,]
within her breast. And then Millie had come into their lives. Sweet, beautiful Millie. Mother of Little Jim. Mom loved them both. She reached out her heart and her hands and her love now was wrapped around all three of them. Big Jim rose, and covered Millie's shoulder with the spread as the breeze blew the curtain. Then he went out the door and started the car in the driveway. As he drove slowly down the street, he knew he couldn't enumerate all the things that Mom had done for him and Millie and Little Jim, but he would walk into her house, stretch out in the big leather. Chair that had been Dad's. Then he would take the plate with the new-baked brown bread and the glass of milk that Mom would offer him. After that he would lean back with a smile and say, "Thanks Mom. Thanks for everything." 353 Winona F. Thomas l \ucur state that I am not an avid opera fan. In fact, most operas which rate the word grand in front of their titles, leave me cold. I admit they are way above me. 'The music may have all the skillful harmonies, and the singers have talent and all the necessary techniques, but operas must be melodious or I don't like them. Verdi's La Traviata is a grand opera with an interesting plot and pleasing melodies. The first time I heard a recording of it, I sat so charmed that I hardly moved a muscle until it was finished. It still has that effect on me. Every time I hear it I am completely enthralled. Last summer when we were in Chicago, some nice people took us to Kungsholm's Miniature Grand Opera Theatre, where we saw La Traviata performed by _ thirteen-inchhigh puppets while we listened to the libretto from recordings made in the Metropolitan Opera House. It was an experience I shall never forget. Last week I heard the announcement that the opera would be broadcast on the radio from the stage just as it was presented in the Metropolitan Opera House. I was glad that I had been slightly ill all week. It would give me an excuse to stay home, and here on the farm I could attend a production of La Traviata. I did the housework early and changed into a dress suitable to 354 listen to grand music. I had taken the curlers from my hair and was applying some make-up when the announcer, who introduces' the opera and briefs the listeners on the cast and continuity, came on the radio. As he told who the principals were, and who would sing Alfredo's and Violetta's parts, he was almost drowned out by the sound of a heavy truck coming into our driveway. As the overture started, footsteps clomped up across the porch, and a door was opened and slammed shut. "Come and take me to the field," a masculine voice comimanded. "The tractor's not working, and I am getting behind in my spring work. I just ordered a new one. The dealer is bringing it down. He may be at the field already. Please hurry!" I didn't turn off the radio. I didn't want to miss one single note as I went out, and I wanted to hear what was being played as I came back into the house. As there was no radio in the truck, I listened to the chug and rumble of the motor instead of music. We left the highway and turned down the lane that led to the field. There wasn't anyone there. "Do I have to wait?" I asked. "Yes, you better. Maybe he's had trouble. I might have to ride back to the house with you." "There he comes now," I said, Teached the field, hus 5 band was turning the tractor around the hurry? Maybe he'll in the farther €nd of the stubb] need Something after he gets here. Patch. He ame slowly Oward me on't waste 84S. Turn off the enHe Teached the end of the furrow gine," he was pl wing and Stopped to I turned the truck 4found and Scrape the mud from the lowshare leaded it toward the Eate before After Surveying the result, he took I turned Off the key, J WaS teady lammer and Pounded jt. Of 1 quick getaway "Hurry," I Said. "I leg, lunch The big truck turned in at the Cooking," gate, and th liver got Out and Slowly let down d mus MOved to © Teplaced with Others he would It would Start "Mg down from the toolshed y "Everythin seems to be all Y the house. When we Teached right," husband Said, "come and the house, We ate lunch while listen set me about One thirty, ang Pi] mg to very I come up for lunch and bring back I 4 Can of gas." > the announ Cer Came on. Sorbers Leaving the "We are about to Car the third Tuck in the drivewa Tan into act, the beautify) ballroom scene." he house Beautify] MUSIC was Cautifully sq Music began I fading on the ether. New the climax Was 4PProaching "During he Intermission w will So were husband's Orders, lear the operg News. Of the air," the "Come and drive the truck to the @mnouncer said. Field. [ 'Put in the grain to feed There Was no music hile I Tethe beef cattle, then I won't have Pared lunch Just ISCUSsiOnN of tO go aroy d by the Corral after I things Which didn't Interest me &ct through lowing ton; ht." 'We are NOW ready for the sec € was I ond act in hich Giorgi I AITives g - In the pocket and J ~ Was the one wh had to Teturn ¢ nd went on with get them What would } heard the second I finally Teached home and sank a Into a chair in time to hear Violetta I noticed the clock I should cough delicately and sing €xquisiteAve been in th field ten Minutes ly as she died in Alfredo's arm 180. As the truck nO radio, "And the curtain falls on Verdi' I drove jt Out of the way and got Masterpiece," he announcer saiq the tourin "ar out of the garage. "The Principals wil] now take their turned on the radio a d tuned jn Curtain cal]s " © Station. Ajj I got were Moans and buzzes. Ask Mrs. Braithwaite _ Mis. Braithwaite is the most fabulous woman I've heard of in ages. She has seven children and never does a bit of work herself. She has her family so well-trained that all she has to do is organize and supervise. She spoke at a neighborhood meeting a few days ago and told us just how to do it.. I have only four children: Charles eight, Steven six, Daniel four, and Lucy two, but I'm just positive that I can get the same results. Oh, it's not that I mind work but, as Mrs. Braithwaite says, "No child should learn to be a drone. Each individual must learn that work is important. The work habit must be established early." T'wo days ago I started the "everybody works" routine. I carefully decided on all the jobs that needed to be done and wrote them on slips of paper. This makes work more like a game, Mrs. Braithwaite says. Fach child then drew to see which chore he was to do. They were so enthusiastic that I congratulated myself on my efficiency. Charles started to vacuum with a vigor that could only mean scars on the furniture but, after all, he had to learn. Steven started to dust the furniture with a pushbutton type of polish, and Daniel washed the windows, also with a can of window spray. Lucy's job was to pick up off the floor. She really was too young to try anything else. 356 ASK MRS. BRAITHWAITE I settled down to a pile of correspondence. Everything was delightful for ten minutes. Charles started to suck up his sister with the vacuum, and I had to oversee his project. While I was pulling Lucy's dress out of the vacuum hose, Steven and Daniel had a spray can fight and the furniture polish won. The front room lost. I separated them and put a child in each room. After an hour, I decided that I had worked my children hard enough and sent them outside to play. 'This was wise, because the vacuum was clogged with a stocking and other sundries. Both spray cans were empty, although they had started out full. I found my car keys, a glass, two odd shoes, the turtle, a small doll, and a set of blocks in the dirty clothes hamper. Lucy had caught onto the idea of picking up, but unfortunately hadn't chosen the proper places for the objects. I was not discouraged. After all, practice makes perfect, as Mrs. Braithwaite always says. The next day, I decided that the children must help around the house again. Charles' job was to fix supper; Steven was to clean the bathroom; Danny could make the beds; and, again, Lucy could pick up. Tuts time I didn't try to do anything else. I decided that all I would do was to supervise. Charles was busy fixing a jellied salad, so I checked on Steven. Cleanser was flying fast through the air and I rescued it about five seconds too late. A giant-size can was used on one bathtub and a sink. I wondered how Mrs. Braithwaite could afford to let her children help. The price of cleaning agents was mounting. I was sure the bathroom would be clean, so I checked on the bed-making project. Lumps that hadn't been in the beds before now appeared. I found several large trucks stashed underneath the covers. "The trucks are tired," Danny explained. By the time I had rescued the toys and helped my four-year-old make the beds, Steven had finished cleaning the bathroom. There was no dirt to be seen anywhere, because it was covered up with gobs of green cleanser. I finished scraping the cleanser off the bathtub and went to check on Charles with dinner. He had decided (and started) on the full menu for dinner. It consisted of six packages of jello mixed with three quarts of fruit cocktail; four cans of frozen juice (orange, grape, pineapple, and limeade mixed together), peanut butter sandwiches, and pancakes. I fished three cans of tuna fish out of the dirty clothes hamper and decided that perhaps I had missed part of Mrs. Braithwaite's speech. My problem wasn't that my children didn't want to work. It was just that they helped too hard. They threw themselves into the task too thoroughly. "Work is fun," Charles announced. "What can we do now?" I decided that perhaps Mrs. Braithwaite could help me. I was sure she must have run into the same problem herself. I phoned her immediately. "May I speak with Mrs. Braithwaite?" "Mrs. Braithwaite isn't here," a voice informed me. "Is this her daughter?" "No, the children aren't home. I'm just the cleaning woman." 357 Cc = prandma in} 't y Va) «Violet Nimmo >, inf Ry: A letter from Grandma was a great inspiration in our home. I was one of five children who had no Grandpas and only one Grandma. She was very special to us. We looked forward to receiving her letters with great anticipation. Each word was written with charity and love. Mother always placed the letter upon the bookcase to be read after dinner while the whole family was seated around our old-fashioned round table. We were so excited we could hardly wait until dinner was over. Grace was said hurriedly, and I don't think any of us ate our usual portions of food. I can visualize five exuberant children all chattering at once, until mother started to open the envelope; then we all quieted down until you could hear the clock tick. We sat in silence, each child waiting to hear the personal message the letter held for him or her. Grandma always remembered to mention things which were important to us. My heart always beat a little faster when Grandma asked, "How is my little Violet? Is she still working on the 'Poet and Peasant' overtures I'll be looking forward to hearing her play the piano when you come to visit next summer." Or perhaps she would say, "I am so pleased to hear that Violet is such a good little mother's helper." In one letter she said, "I suppose you children are all busy helping your mother and father pick strawberries." The next day we picked strawberries all day without any complaints or grumbles. We strove to live up to Grandma's praise and belief in us. About the time our inspired ambition began to diminish, there would be another letter from Grandma, and we would be back on our best behavior for another while. Through Grandma's letters we were aware of every lovely thing which God created for us to enjoy. 'The first robin in spring, the violets and pussy willows along the river bank; orioles, marigolds, and fleecy white clouds in summer; wild geese; pumpkins, corn shocks, and colorful maple trees in autumn, snowbirds, icicles and Christmas trees in winter. We had pointed out to us and appreciated and enjoyed the things in life that are free. Sometimes Grandma would tell us about something cute OF mischievous that "Rembrandt" her cat had done, or she would tell us how fat the "precocious pig" was growing. 'The 'precocious pig" was the piggy bank in which she saved pennies to spend on us when we went to visit her. She always enclosed a little prayer at the close of each letter. Crandma is in heaven now. I still say the prayers she taught us. 1 have taught them to my children, along with many of her beautiful thoughts. I cherish the memories of Grandma's letters and reflect their charitable contents with great nostalgia. Please, may I contribute as much Christian spirit and love for wholesome, unselfish living as did our dear Grandma. 358 — Dearest Mom and Dad: Something happened last night that made me feel I cannot put off any longer this thought that I have carried in my mind for so long. The phone rang. Just such a simple thing as that. But it was in the dark hours of the morning. As soon as the first loud ring exploded the silence of our sleeping household, my heart began pounding, and my only thought was, "Something has happened to one of the folks at home." I picked up the receiver and said, "Hello." A man's voice boomed at me. "Is this Mr. Schriber?" No."' "Oh, I'm very sorry I disturbed you. I've called the wrong number." "That's all right," I replied, my relief so great I could feel myself growing weak. I returned to bed, but was so wide awake I knew sleep would be a long time returning, and I found my thoughts directed more strongly than usual toward all of you so many miles away. While I was growing up the thought never occurred to me that when I married I would move far from all of you to start a happy life and family with my husband. So when there were suddenly no more daily chats and visits, laughter, and secrets, I replaced the empty spot with remembering — remembering all the things, big and little, good and bad, that were my life before we moved away. And through all these years one thing stands out above all the rest — it is strange that it does not gTOw dim with time but becomes brighter and stronger — and that is the love and the patience, the sacrifices, and the helping hands you applied at the right times and places. You gave all of yourselves for your children. I would that I may have the strength to do as much for our children. I'm thankful the phone rang last night. It woke me up in several ways. It could easily have been sad news from home. Some day or some night it will be, but, Mom and Dad, when it happens I will not sadly say, "I wish I'd have let them know before it was too late." I have had these thoughts within me for so long and have always said, "Someday I will sit down and write the folks a long letter and Jet them know how I really feel." Someday — someday. Too many of us have too many somedays. 359 Cuopre your baby in a colorful crib quilt. Always a valuable addition to any layette, these low-cost quilts are also nice to make for gifts or for money-making items for your Relief Society bazaar. Let your imagination go to work, and you will be pleasantly surpriscd at the beautiful and clever ideas you can discover at the amazingly low price of about three dollars a quilt. A Flannel Quilt For a simple but serviceable beginning, buy a yard and a half of unbleached muslin, a one-pound quilt batting (this is enough for two crib quilts), and a yard and half of plain-colored or figured flannel. Be sure the fabric is at least one yard wide, as this is enough, but if you want the quilt to be a little wider, sew a border of a contrasting or matching fabric all around, having wider strips along the sides. Better yet. Buy your fabric in the drapery department as it comes wider, and is of better quality. Flannel makes a soft, cozy quilt back. It wears well and is inexpensive. You may want to make both the front and back of flannel. If you are artistically inclined, dream up any number of figures from babyland to trace on the muslin. Draw your chosen designs on a piece of wrapping paper the same size as your quilt, first, then transfer them to the material with the use of carbon paper. If you need help, there are many coloring books or storybooks with cute figures from which to copy clever little Mother Goose figures or animals. If you don't like to spend the time required for embroidering, you can buy real wax coloring crayons and color the figures in solid colors, then press with a cloth dipped in a strong vinegar and water mixture to set the colors. Here is also a good way to use your textile paints to good advantage. A Satin Quilt For a fancier quilt, you may want to use satin or similar material. On these, the quilting itself can be your design, and there is no limit to the cute figures you can create by merely quilting around your lightly outlined patterns. Quilt Blocks and Applique You may prefer to make a real old-fashioned-style quilt, using six or eight small blocks, either embroidered or appliqued, and sewed together with strips of the samc 360 f N 7 ' { \ / ' $ / NX A minx \ { ' 4! \ / \ / / / N ' ~" \ ' \ / 7 > i, 4 Y XN y "a % y 4 N. 7 7 XN 7 '% 7 ' 'A ' A » ~ XN — - —" a bes rey 4. = \. Mmm an Oe OT So a ee" -~ ore S "eal p a 7 h *e "a a F ' J x 4 " yt ~ awe -%,? T =< A L} we % ~ 7% 7 ' Oo" <, nN N x / s 4 y. XN wa q A, wi 'XN Path '7 yi \; ' - \ ' ' \ \ JN Wa % ZN 1' ad S /. ' Dr A 7 N Hg \ 7 S ee m™m es @ 7 Se 4 ~~ 4 X cA 4 wee a 4 ~ ~~ "A * f p70 CN aa a ' id r) NN 7 W " '. 'M J '.. ' ' S J. =e ~- 7 7 material you are using for the back of the quilt. This is a good way to use scraps from other sewing projects. Preparing to Quilt When you get the top of the quilt made, you are ready to put it together with the batting in between. To do this, pin the back of the quilt to the quilting frames. Now place the batting carefully on. Next, pin the top of the quilt in place. Now you are ready to quilt with small stitches. Stitch around each figure, being sure to get through all the thicknesses of material. Now bind all the edges with wide cotton bias or wide satin ribbon, or bias strips of the material you wish. If you don't have quilting frames, you can use your curtain stretchers, or you can make some frames, by tacking strong cotton strips on four long, narrow boards, Icaving about an inch of the material at the edge along the board so that pins can hold the quilt in place firmly. You then can buy four clamps to hold the boards together at the four corners. Prop the frames on four chairs. Tied Quiit Here is an idea for an easy quilt. This docsn't need to be quilted, but is tied with yarn. Buy a bright print which has large animals or circus people, and put a discarded cotton blanket in between the front and the back of the quilt. Thread a large needle with colorful yarn and take one stitch clear through all the thicknesses, pulling the threads long cnough to tie. You may baste this way all across in rows and cut the thread in between to tie, There should be a tie every four or five inches in even rows. Do not tie the yarn too tightly, as it may shrink and break. If you would like a quilt which is less heavy, or bulky — one that can be used as a spread as well as a quilt — then make the top of an all-over design and a bottom of good heavy flannel with no batting or other thickness between. Put the top and bottom right sides together and sew on your sewing machine around three sides, leaving the fourth side open to turn