[Vol51 | May 1964 | Page 324 | Special Feature | The Family Goes Back to School Elaine | Reiser Alder]

The Family Goes Back to School

Elaine Reiser Alder

324

THE FAMILY GOES BACK TO SCHOOL

other's children so that each of us could have an afternoon off.

The friendships we have cultivated in our student living have remained as choice as any we hope to have. Most of us have moved from our barracks community, but we still delight in hearing of graduations, births, and progress of each child. We long to visit each other in different parts of the world.

Though the days are long — and must be if the husband is to get all his studying, writing, and part-time work done — you will no doubt find the time you spend with Tom is so precious that you enjoy every minute of it. Doug and I even enjoyed grocery shopping once a week — because it was our Friday night date and a chance to get away from the books! Sundays were our special days of rest from schoolwork with Church activities and visits from friends and quiet relaxation in the evening, listening to the rebroadcast of the Tabernacle Choir, 1000 miles away.

DURING the long days and evenings, you can keep busy doing many things which will make the hours productive and Tom proud of you — learning to cook special dishes and surprising him with them at supper, sewing for yourself, Tom, and the children (a real money-saver), making Christmas cards and gifts, embroidering, knitting, making a baby book or scrapbook, writing letters or reading. You may have other hobbies I am not aware of, but this is a good opportunity to enjoy them. The time can be wasted or used — depending on what you wish. While Tom is progressing mentally in his schooling, you will realize that you can come closer together if you engage in some kind of mental activity similar

to his studies. An often-used library card is an inexpensive avenue toward keeping your mind alert.

Above all, don't begrudge or apologize for the time you spend in school. It is a privilege to attend school, and nowadays it is so common for young couples with families to be in school that there is no need for embarrassment. Learn to laugh about the odd things you may have to do — seating guests on the floor because there aren't enough chairs, eating with odd kinds of utensils because you don't have complete table service, or eating beans for a week because your food money didn't quite hold out! Many of your neighbors are probably doing the same. Now that we are nearly through with school, we feel pangs for the fun and funny things about barracks living.

We decided, when we moved away from our parents and lifelong friends, that our chief sources of entertainment would be our children, Church activities, and our new friends. Since we knew no one at first, we began making friends and soon had scores of guests to invite to our home. Our favorite activity with friends was to invite them to our apartment "for dessert." We would serve punch and cookies or brownies and spend the evening visiting, sharing other collected slides, listening to music, or playing Scrabble. Our guests brought their children and put them to sleep on our bed. The next time we took Scott with us to their apartment nearby to enjoy a similar evening.

IT would be unfair to underestimate the value of the Young Marrieds program and Relief Society. Both gave us friends of all ages, and the opportunity to keep busy by serving others. I never lacked for a "mother

325

MAY 1964

[ILLUSTRATION: Diagram showing various lighting fixtures including tack to ceiling with small, horseshoe-shaped cord tacks, floating bookshelves, burlap lampshade construction with knitting needles pierced through cardboard, aluminum foil as heat protector, and cross-view of cardboard lampshade]

tack to ceiling
with small, horseshoe-shaped
cord tacks

burlap

Knitting
needles
pierced through
cardboard

Cross-view
of
cardboard lampshade

Shape with cardboard
Cover inside with aluminum foil
Cover outside with burlap or other material

Aluminum foil
(as heat protector)

The knitting needles cross in center of
lampshade to hold bulb and socket in place.
Total cost: Approx. 75c - $1.00.

away from home," because the women at Relief Society were all willing to be one to me. Scott has been active in Relief Society since he was six weeks old — and has loved it!

One of the hardest things about student living is financial management. This is where you can shine, however. Studying week-end ads in the newspapers, preparing foods that are nutritious and yet inexpensive, and constantly watching

for ways of improving your money management will be keys to your success.

Certain meat cuts (pot roast, shank end ham, chickens) provide good nutrition at minimum cost and allow "planned overs" for other days in the week, sandwiches, casseroles, soup stock, stew, hash, or cold plates. Keep your eyes open for other specials during the week end. If hamburger is the only thing in our price range, I make sure the

326

THE FAMILY GOES BACK TO SCHOOL

trimmings — baked potato, tossed salad, and a favorite dessert — light up Doug's eyes. One day a week for baking gives us fresh bread, rolls, and dozens of cookies — at little cost. Rather than serving rich desserts, we eat fresh fruits and feel we are simply but well fed.

You may find it economical to buy a quarter or half of a beef, or cases of canned goods, jointly with another couple, and then dividing them evenly. We rented a frozen-food locker near our apartment and kept it filled with the beef, specials from the supermarket, and home-frozen fruits and vegetables which we bought (and often picked ourselves) from farms nearby.

We avoided expensive or specialty foods, as a matter of economy, and have felt our health and budget are better for it.

SPEAKING of economy, let me mention a problem you may face when you get in the middle of things in your school routine. You may find, as we did, that it is necessary for the wife to do something to supplement the family income. Many girls are able to find satisfactory work in offices and stores, but I preferred a job which could be done at home. After advertising my services as a typist, I never lacked for typing jobs which could be done while Scott slept or played nearby. Other wives chose to baby sit for working mothers, some did ironing for single students, and one or two took orders for baked goods which they made at home. Since we were living together in an equal status, there was no class distinction for work — the most highly respected people were those who worked the hardest.

There are a number of ways you may save money on home furnish-

ings. You would be amazed at the fun you can have making furniture and decorations for your apartment. We refinished old living room and dining room furniture which our parents gave us, and made room partitions from dyed burlap, painted sticks, and reed drapes. We painted the rooms in cheerful colors and made suitable curtains to match each room. Bricks and boards made ample bookcases. We were delighted with our "modern" hanging lamp in our living room — constructed of cardboard, aluminum foil, burlap (to match our partition), and knitting needles! Our apartment even has flat corrugated egg dividers stapled to the ceiling for insulation, a legacy from the previous tenants— so we fondly call our 500 square feet of "home" the Egg Carton Castle!

We hope you will enjoy your student years as much as we have ours. We have been told time and again that "these are the rich years of life," and we realize it now as we step a little higher toward responsibility. Never again will we live so close to so many people and enjoy the association of young adults and children alike. We all had little money and often wondered if we would get through the month with a dime left, but we learned one valuable lesson through our student living — the value of the rich things in life.

Friends, family, goals, education, music, beauty, nature — and all things which the gospel gives to us — these can be enjoyed regardless of where you live. Student life is a worthwhile source of appreciation for these things — and we hope your years will hold such fond memories for you as they do for us.

With love,
Elaine

327
