[Vol51 | May 1964 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Home | Title: The Home - Inside and Out What Is a Mother? | Author: Margaret Richards, 351; Mother — Pioneer of the Present, by Hazel Sowards Cannon, 352; Thanks, Mom, for Everything, by Sara O. Moss, 353; Verdi on the Farm, by Winona F. Thomas, 354; Ask Mrs. Braithwaite, by Janice Dixon, 356; A Letter From Grandma, by Violet Nimmo, 358; A Call in the Night, by Mary E. Gallamore, 359; Cuddly Crib Quilts, by Adelle Ashby, 360; Sewing Time, by Dorothy C. Little, 362; Potpourri of Handy Hints, by Jo M. Stock, 362; Recipes From the Southwest, by Romaine R. Cooksey, 363; Appetite Teasers for Preschoolers, by Margaret Maxwell, 364; Oatmeal Date Bread, by Anne Marie Astle, 366; Select Your Own Dessert, by Patricia M. Faas, 367; Transfers for Children's Clothing, by Janet W. Breeze, 367; From the Dear Windows of Home, by Leona Fetzer Wintch, 368; Alma A. Fernelius "Lady of Lovely Crocheting," 369; The Right Key, by Luella Foster, 388; Whom Should I Seek? by Blanche Briggs, 388; Joy, by Olive Sharp, 389; Double Your Pleasure — Double Your Subscription, by Ouida Johns Pedersen, 389; Life Is Beautiful, by Ida G. Hepworth, 397.]
inside out. After turning, fold the raw edges of the fourth edge inside and stitch along. This quilt needs no binding. Now, baste along all four edges and around cach figure with very long basting stitches. Machine stitch around cach figure with your longest machine stitch. Try not to pull the quilt as you sew, but just gently guide it through, to prevent pucking. Now take out the basting. 361 "Reepet frou the a" so i i a zy I,, oe ~IAULon I Romaine R. Cooksey EMPANADITAS (little fried pies) (Castile, Spain) CRUST: fry pies in hot fat at once to a light golden brown. 5 c. Flour. These pies are better small, as they 5 tsp. (level) baking powder are rich. They are a favorite for Y, tsp. Salt Christm die Wiican Yc. Shortening (or less) mstmas among the Spanis people. Meat broth from cooked pork to form soft dough FILLING Sift together into mixing bowl the 2 Ibs. Pork flour, baking powder, and salt. Cut in 2 c. Sugar shortening with pastry blender. Add 1 c. Soaked raisins meat broth sufficient to form soft 1 tsp. Nutmeg dough. Turn dough onto lightly floured 1 tsp. Cinnamon board. Roll dough to a thinness 1 tsp. Cloves equal to that for ordinary pies. Cut 4 tsp. Salt into small circles with cookie cutter about the size of a cup. Place filling Cook pork the day before and grind on bottom crusts, using a teaspoon, with small grinder. (Be sure to save and cover with a top crust. Flute the broth for the dough). Mix the two crusts together, using two fingers, ground pork and other ingredients so they will hold the filling in. Deep together. RED CHILI I Ib. Pork from which all fat has been removed 1 tbsp. Sait 1 tsp. Chili powder 1 tbsp. Flour Y% c. Cold water 1 tsp. Garlic, chopped fine or 1 tsp. Cominos (if Preferred) chili, flour, and cold water and add to cooked meat. Add garlic, or cominos, if preferred. You now have delicious chili. 363 Appetite I Teasers for Preschoolers _ Margaret Maxwell Meal planning is sometimes a problem for the busy mother of a preschool child. What can she fix that is nutritious and appealing to the older members of the family, and yet is suitable and tempting fare for a small child? The preschooler, even more than the adult, must have a diet which includes a generous supply of foods chosen from the basic four groups: milk, meat and eggs, vegetables and fruits, and bread and cereal products. Yet, as every mother knows, the very foods that are most important to good, allaround nutrition for the preschooler are often those which he likes the least. However, food can be served to the small child in such a way that he will naturally develop good eating habits that will benefit him throughout his life. Introduce new foods to the preschooler casually, without special comment. It is helpful if the rest of the family is in the habit of trying new dishes with enthusiasm, as such an attitude is contagious. Serve only one new food at a time, in a small helping, preferably with an old favorite to go along with it. It 364 is good psychology, if the child rejects the new food, to remove it without comment. Sometimes the casual remark, "I'm not at all surprised you don't like this. This is grown-up food," will make a child have second thoughts about the new dish. Try the new food again in a couple of weeks. The results may be altogether different. The younger child, who is still learning to manipulate eating utensils successfully, finds it a welcome relief to be served food which may be picked up with his fingers. Crisp foods, such as carrot sticks, celery sticks, and toast cut in quarters or strips are easy to eat and generally popular. Hard-cooked egg cut in quarters, chunks of raw, peeled apple, cooked whole green beans, and asparagus spears add interest to the toddler's diet. For the mother of the "picky" eater, here are a few hints. A small, child-size plastic glass, or a cup from a set of play dishes, which can be filled and refilled by the child himself from a little pitcher, may encourage the milk-hater to drink his quota of milk without a protest. A drop of red food coloring, making "pink milk," or a shake of sweetened strawberry or chocolate-flavored instant mix in his pitcher, makes plain milk more interesting for an occasional change. Small, colorful plates and dishes served with dollsize portions of food often spur the reluctant eater to demand second and even third helpings. But the best help the parents of the healthy but balky young eater can give is to regard his eating, or non-eating, with casual nonchalance. Here are a group of tested favorites that are special treats for times when the preschooler is eating without the older members of the family — although these dishes have such eye and taste appeal that the rest of the family will probably want to try them, too. They are rich in nourishing protein, minerals, and vitamins, and yet they can be served as a "party food" that will make the small child clean his plate and come back for more. EGGNOG AND VARIATIONS Easily digested, high in body-building protein, eggnog has long been a favorite of both preschoolers and their nutritionconscious mothers. For the child who simply doesn't like milk, or who balks at his morning soft-cooked egg, an eggnog, served in a small cup with a straw to go with it, may be a happy solution. BASIC EGGNOG RECIPE Beat one egg with rotary beater or electric blender. Gradually add I tsp. Vanilla extract, a dash of salt, and I c. Cold milk. Sweeten to taste. Sprinkle with nutmeg just before serving. Variations: Molasses Eggnog: Add 2 tsp. Molasses to above recipe for added iron. Orange Eggnog: Add 14 c. Orange juice to above recipe; omit nutmeg. APPETITE TEASERS FOR PRESCHOOLERS Egg Cream: l egg, separated 2 tsp. Sugar V4, c. Powdered milk l/4, c. Boiling water sprinkle of nutmeg Beat egg white stiff with rotary beater. Beat in sugar, powdered milk, and egg yolk. Slowly pour in boiling water, beating constantly. Serve with a sprinkle of nutmeg on each cup. Makes about 2 servings. Cheese, egg, and tuna dishes make hearty energy fare for the small child's luncheon menu. Here are two main-dish favorites for the preschool set. ONE-EYED SAILORS With a biscuit cutter, remove the center of a slice of bread. Dip the remainder in French toast batter (beaten egg thinned with milk or cream and a pinch of salt). Lay bread in hot greased skillet; break an egg into the hollow center. Cover skillet and cook until egg is set and bread is brown on bottom. Turn over briefly to set egg on top and brown other side of bread. Dip leftover bread centers in French toast batter and bake on hot skillet. Serve with applesauce sprinkled with cinnamon. PINK RABBIT Blend one can tomato soup with 4 c. Shredded cheese. Add % ec. Chunk tuna. Heat until cheese is melted and all ingredients well blended. Serve over hot buttered toast wedges, with a glass of cold milk. For a special dessert treat, try Pink Peppermint Pudding, or Strawberry Surprise Cakes. STRAWBERRY SURPRISE CAKES 24 small white, plain cupcakes, cooked 1 recipe strawberry-flavored gelatin Slice off cupcake tops; hollow out cupcake with spoon. Fill with slightly thickened strawherry-flavored gelatin. Replace top; refrigerate until gelatin is set. Leftover cake centers may be saved and mixed with vanilla or butterscotch pudding for a dessert treat for the next day. As an occasional breakfast or supper treat, top a cup of hot cocoa with a marshmallow and serve with cinnamon toast, or 

365 MAY 1964

 with chocolate toast. For chocolate toast: 14 c. Raisins mix a heaping tbsp. Of sugar with Y, tsp. 1 drop red food coloring of cocoa; sprinkle over hot buttered toast. 1 drop peppermint flavoring, if desired Y, ce. Powdered milk PINK PEPPERMINT PUDDING Blend all ingredients except powdered 34, c. Hot water milk in small saucepan. Bring to boil, 4 tbsp. Farina stirring constantly; cook until thickened. 1 tsp. Sugar Remove from heat: stir in powdered milk. Sprinkle of cinnamon Serve warm. Serves 2. Ma itmeal Date Bread Anne Marie Astle 1% ¢C. Warm milk 1 tsp. Cinnamon 2 pkg. Dry yeast 2 tbsp. Shortening 1 c. Rolled oats (uncooked ) " ¢. Cut-up dates 1 tsp. Salt 3 to 3% c. Sifted flour "" C. Sugar Dissolve yeast in warm milk. Add oats, salt, sugar, cinnamon, shortening, and dates. Stir well. Mix in flour. Knead on lightly floured board until smooth and elastic. Place in greased bowl; cover. Let rise until double in bulk (1 to 1% hours); punch down and allow to rise again. After second rising shape into loaf; place in greased loaf pan. Cover; let rise again. Bake at 375° for 40 to 45 minutes. Icing While still slightly warm, ice top with mixture of % Cup powdered sugar mixed with enough milk to make a thin icing. 366 Patricia M. Faas Our staff was invited to the boss' home for dinner. With all the temptinglooking and very delicious foods being served, no one even thought of dessert, when the host asked his wife, "Is there dessert?" "Dessert!" she exclaimed, "if they get any, they'll have to build their own!" In the next moment, our plates were removed and the table hastily set for another course. A fruit dish appeared, loaded with bananas and seedless grapes. Ice cream balls (two kinds) rolled in coconut and flaked nuts, were passed along with several kinds of ice cream toppings. Other fruits were served, including berries, maraschino cherries, and crushed pineapple. After de