[Vol51 | May 1964 | Page 348 | General Feature | Editorial: The Lighted Window Vesta | P. Crawford]

EDITORIAL

Volume 51    May 1964    Number 5

• Belle S. Spafford, President
• Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor
• Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor
• Hulda Parker, Secretary-Treasurer

The Lighted Window

The beloved words and symbols which apply to mothers and characterize their devotion are long remembered, and their comfort and inspiration have become an aura of light that leans across the years. They are like the guidance and the glory of a lighted window.

A woman now in her busy and responsible middle years remembers that her mother was orderly, and by that rule of heaven, she arranged her own life to the best of her ability and gave her children the feeling that order prevailed where willing hands and noble spirits controlled the enlarging world around them. Before this mother opened her door and entered her morning kitchen, she dressed her hair beautifully, piled it high in a golden crown. She tied a clean starched apron around her waist, wore, also, a smile of courage as personal adornment. Then, whatever trials the day might bring could be met with a greater degree of order and serenity, because the beginning was good. In this family a sense of order and direction pervaded all of the homes of that heritage.

A young mother, faced with a small income and many expenses, in her home on a small acreage at the edge of a city, patterned after the mother strength consistent in her family. Beginning with the pioneer grandmother, they were enterprising women. The grandmother cared for long rows of green garden vegetables, she carried baskets of yellow peaches from her orchard; she raised bees and separated the golden honey and the wax and sold the products in the town markets. She was like the Biblical woman who was praised within the gates, for her family, down through the generations, were provident mothers who gave an abiding security to their loved ones.

A Relief Society work meeting counselor remembers her dear mother as a needle and thread woman, her fingers moving quickly in and out of a patchwork quilt, or deftly stitching lace to white organ-

348

Anna B. Hart
Edith S. Elliott
Florence J. Madsen
Leone G. Layton
Blanche B. Stoddard
Evon W. Peterson
Aleine M. Young
Josie B. Bay
Alberta H. Christensen
Mildred B. Eyring
Charlotte A. Larsen
Edith P. Beckman
Winniefred S. Manwaring
Elna P. Haymond

Mary R. Young
Mary V. Cameron
Afton W. Hunt
Wealtha S. Mendenhall
Pearle M. Olsen
Elsa T. Peterson
Fanny S. Kienitz
Elizabeth B. Winters
LaRue H. Rosell
Jennie R. Scott
Alice L. Wilkinson
LaPreil S. Bunker
Irene W. Buehner
Irene C. Lloyd

Hazel S. Cannon
Hazel S. Love
Fawn H. Sharp
Celestia J. Taylor
Anne R. Gledhill
Belva A. Barlow
Zola J. McGhie
Oa J. Cannon
Lila B. Walch
Lenore C. Gundersen
Marjorie C. Pingree
Darlene C. Dedekind
Cleone R. Eccles

dy pinafores to adorn her daughters — or the mother's hands guiding a piece of yellow flowered print under the needle of a sewing machine. This long-remembered mother was weaving beauty with her fingers and stitching the blessed feeling of love and security into the spiritual apparel of her children.

Each time a stake chorister directs the Singing Mothers, in the background of her attitude and her love for music, is the memory of her mother, and the tall and elegant organ that graced the family parlor. On winter evenings and in the summer twilight the mother played hymns and sang the lyrics . . . "where the pure breezes blow and the clear streamlets flow . . ."; "fit home for the people of God . . ."; "behold 'tis eventide. . . ." And when that mother died the ornate minarets of the organ were removed, and the organ was taken and carefully set up in the Relief Society room in that small mountain-rimmed town. All music is a heritage to a chorister daughter in another place and in another land — and the memory of mother is associated with the word music, and is a singing forever

Five daughters, who have now become mothers and grandmothers and preside in homes where the motif is light, remember a lighted window in an adobe ranch house in the lonely hills. The light in the window was a kerosene lamp, with a trimmed wick and a polished chimney. It was a symbol that a mother — a true homemaker — lived and reflected an abundance of light that drew her family at eventide to their home, where all the ways and all the words were shining and uplifting. And now that those daughters have gone their separate ways, they are bound together and are distinguished and marked as a family by the influence of a mother who stood at a lighted window.

Each woman in this time of change and uncertainty, may be guided by the enduring heritage of mothering, and each may stand at a lighted window.
—V. P. C.

349
