[Rainmaker by Pansye H. Powell]

Rainmaker - Pansye H. Powell I know a way To make it rain: Go out and wash A windowpanel Page 684

flew Values tti the Qjamilu uiour
Fay Knight /ones
CWEN though we live in this day of opportunity, I sometimes wonder if we are as
*-' happy as our parents and grandparents were in their life of simplicity. They taught their children to sing, dance, and recite and to play home games, to be kind, modest, and to avail themselves of every opportunity.
Let us not rely too much on our schools, Church, and our city for the guidance of our children.
Let us follow the advice of our Church leaders and continue Family Hours. We usually begin our Family Hour with our evening meal served in a party atmosphere — sometimes before the fireplace.
The children are delighted and feel like it is something special for them. After our dinner we usually gather around the piano and sing some of our favorite songs from our Latter-day Saint hymns and other children's songs. Then one of the family reads us a story from a Bible storybook or a good moral story. Other nights we enjoy playing a game or two that all can enjoy. We have a family hobby of photography, and some family nights are filled with seeing some of our own movies and slides of pictures we have taken on vacation trips and of our relatives.
In the summer, when the evening are long, we plan our family night in the canyon with a picnic together. If a good moving picture is playing at one of the theaters we sometimes enjoy seeing one together.
On this special night, we also discuss the little family problems which have come up in our home during the week. We all have a chance to express ourselves and give suggestions for improvements we might make. We have time in this evening to iron out many little difficulties.
We close our family night with our regular family prayer in which all members participate in turn.
We all feel greatly benefited by our Family Hour. blndian (bummer
Marian Schroder Cwthers
There was no wind.
The trees that lined the lane
Stood silent,
Long since blown bare
By crisp October winds.
Yet on their dying vines, a few grapes clung;
Chrysanthemums, defiantly, in reckless beauty glowed.
Hushed, the whole earth lay quiescent,
Softly enfolded in amethystine haze,
Token of Tndian summer.
Page 685

From The Field
General Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering .
All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "