[Late Harvest by Beatrice K. Ekman]

Late Harvest Beatrice K. Ekman The window framed late harvest fields, Stubble and sheaves of twine-bound grain. The round, full moon was at the flood, A worn, dirt road turned down the lane; In the inverted bowl of night The quiet stars gleamed overhead; On mountain slopes and kneeling hills A mesh of moonbeam silver spread.
Above the stately poplar trees Wild, migrant geese went winging by; We heard their ancient, yearning call Echoing down the sky. lake Your Own Fall Hat Winifred P. Sanders LL women love beautiful hats and the psychological value of a new hat is something no one denies. You can have a hat to match every outfit. "Wonderful," you sigh, "but how could I afford that?" Easy, make them up, make them over, make them excitingly and exclusively your very own.
Your hat, that important center of interest, can be your own creation through the delightful discovery of hatmaking.
Students in the art of designing and hatmaking have found that it is fun to exchange ideas and suggestions.
Observations and experiences are also good teachers.
Watch the smart hats on the street. Be an alert window shopper, and examine the better current style trends, most expressive of your personality.
Clever handling of style, shape, and color can perform astonishing illusions that will flatter both face and figure. To begin with, let's take an old hat and make it over. No doubt you have several tucked away in some dark corner of the clothes closet.
After all, you say, the material in them is so good, and it is a shame not to do something with them. You certainly can, and you'd be surprised what can be done. Makinc Over a Fett Hat Washing If a hat has lost its style, but not its quality, then you are in for an adventure in hatmaking. A felt hat can be washed, just as you would wash a nice, wool sweater. First, take everything off the hat, trimming, head-size band—everything. You can use a razor blade to do this, but be careful not to cut the felt.
Wash the hat in lukewarm sudsy water and rinse well in water of the same temperature. Do not wring the hat out, but roll it up in an old towel to get all the excess moisture out.
Felt can be stretched and pulled into shape by means of gentle tension, but should not be forced with abruptness. It is surprising how, for example, a small crown can be formed into a broader low crown, with enough excess felt left to make a narrow, flat, or rolled brim, all in one piece, or continuous from the crown.
Blocking a Hat After a hat has been washed it is ready for blocking.
Block the hat while it is still wet. In fact, you can finish the hat while it is damp.
Sewing on damp felt is much easier than sewing on dry felt, as the needle sometimes splits the felt when dry. To begin the blocking process, ease the hat on to the hat block and smooth it into shape.
Smooth the top of the crown in a circular motion until it takes the shape of the block.
Find the head size placement and tie a cord around it. For experimentation, try differ-. Ent ways of creasing and smoothing the hat into different contours. The crown may be molded into various folds, it may be crease-pinched partly in front or partly in back at different levels.
Folds may be over /79 

680  FELT SHAPES ON Hat Btocxs each other or be made to turn in and out and back again. Do not worry if the dye comes off on the hands, it will disappear after several washings. Dark-colored felts always shed dye.
After the felt has been shaped, as a general rule, the edge needs trimming. It is easy to cut felt, especially while wet. (This can also be done when the felt is dry.) Decide on the exact line edge for the brim and mark it with chalk. Cut the edge straight across with scissors.
Scrape the edge with the blade of the scissors or with a razor blade, and when dry, steam press the edge, and it will close in with a roundness which has a commercial appearance. Or the edge can be turned back one-half inch and hemmed, by hand, using the slip stitch. At the same time a wire can be placed inside the hem to give a more finished and _professional look. Any portion of a reblocked hat which needs steam pressing can be done after the felt is dry. Use a padded mit or an improvised pad, apply to. The felt, and steam press.
Move the pad as needed, and repeat until the effect desired is obtained.
Types of Blocks In hatmaking the block is to the hat as the mold to a bowl of jello.
Your block gives your hat its shape, so it has a very important part in making your hat turn out just right.
Blocks are made from wood, papiermache, fiber cloth, and many other types of material. If you make your own block or use a_buckram shape, the block must be built up with a water repellent hardening agent, such as shellac, clear varnish, clear lacquer, or enamel, or the block may be covered with glued tape, then sized or painted.
Blocks are usually made in two: pieces—crown and brim. You can even use your imagination and search the kitchen for possible utensils lending themselves to block shapes. A large wooden salad bowl, jello mold, or cake tin for a brim, or even a vacuum cleaner roll could be used in making a rolled brim. Wet your piece of buckram or felt, put it over the shape you want to use, and slip it off when it is dry. A piece of thin muslin could be used first, before the buckram is put on the mold.
Even plant pots of various sizes make good hat blocks. Try them on your head first, for fit. You'll find it exciting to make your own blocks and invent your own hat shapes. If none of these improvised blocks suits you, then use your own head for a block.
Stand before the mirror and shape the felt with your fingers.
Many lovely hats have been made this way, but you MAKE YOUR OWN FALL HAT
681 do have to spend enough time to get the felt very smooth.
How to Clean an Old Hat
To clean an old felt hat, brush it thoroughly to take out dust and loose surface soil. Dampen a cloth with a good commercial cleaning fluid and rub it over the hat evenly, removing spots as you go. After cleaning a white felt hat rub it with a cake of powdered milk of magnesia.
To restore the shape, hold the hat over a teakettle, with a press pillow on the underside against the out-of-shape part. Steam. Steam softens the sizing in felt and makes it easy to shrink or stretch. Push in one direction with left hand against the out-of-shape part, and pat press with fingers of right hand.
Allow to dry.
Making Other Type Hats
There are other types of hats you can make besides washing an old felt hat or cleaning and retrimming one of which you have grown tired. There are the covered frame, the pattern hat, and the wire frame.
Covered Fiames
Here's another place where you can let your imagination be your guide. Frames are like blocks, except that they are not reinforced as heavily and are usually in one piece.
In the factory, frames are made over wooden blocks the exact shape and size of the finished buckram shape.
They can be made from buckram, crinoline, or willowette. There are many types of buckram frames, including the calot, mushroom, pillbox, sailor, bonnet, and cloche, and their variations. Factory-made, or ready-made frames, can be purchased as a timesaver, and are very reasonably priced. However, you can easily make a few of the simple types if you have a skull block.
The buckram style you choose is up to you, and the fabric you use is a matter of your choice. For winter wear, there are woolens, velvets, melusine, velusheen, and a score of other materials to choose from.
The general principle of covering frames is consistency in the thread grain. The fabric may be placed at center front and center back on the true bias. The true bias will, therefore, fall at right side and left side, and the top will be placed similarly.
Each style of buckram shape is a problem in itself, but once you have learned to cover a few different types, the others will come easy.
The Pattern Hat
Pattern hats are soft hats, with no wire. They do not cover a frame. Sometimes pattern hats are made from straw or felt bodies.
Straw cloth, skirt felt, and many other types of fabrics are ideal for pattern hats. If stiffening is needed use a lining of a soft, light weight fabric such as taffeta, French crepe, honeycomb, net, sized crepe, or an interlining of cotton muslin, crinoline, taffeta, cotton felt, or cotton flannel. The lining should be cut one half to one-fourth inches smaller than the hat itself. Interlinings may be sewed at the same time the hat is sewed. Lay the linings separately, seam to seam, and tack.
Pattern hats are generally sewed from the inside. Sewing machine stitching is strong and practical.
The variations of pattern hats are: sectional crowns, two-piece crowns,

682 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE— OCTOBER 1952
Although some of the stitching be used, as well as fabrics. Use the used in the making of a hat can be trimming you have on hand. Never done with the sewing machine, as throw away anything that is still suggested above, most of the work usable, such as ribbon, feathers, or must be done by hand, since the flowers. Arrange for placement and homemaker does not have access ideas just as a trial. Try on hats to the special machines used in mil- which have interesting decoration linery manufacturing. To join the and study them to see how the brim to the crown, place the edge decoration is made. Use the ideas of the crown over the brim and in different combinations as a trial use the back stitch to hold the two and error method, together, or the slip stitch can be Retouching QJd Trimming used if you decide not to use a You can renovate old flowers by band of velvet or other material bmshing with a good liquid cleaner7 to cover the seam The sweat-band Qr di into the solution and bmsh or head-size band on the inside of tl with a paintbrush7 let dry, the hat is usually made of gros- trim ed and retouch the surface grain ribbon, shaped and steam of tals with milliner>s shellaCy or pressed m a circle before it is placed ma£e a thin so]ution of gelatin and inside the hat. use yQur thumb and fingers to put
Trimming it around the edges. This gives
If a hat is still in good style, it body and freshens the appearance, can be retrimmed, to give it a new Spot or dip in the cleaner, soiled look. You can wear a hat several ribbon, lace, and similar trimmings, seasons with little change in its con- Place soiled feathers in a jar of tour. But the thing that makes the cleaner, tighten the lid, and shake hat new again is a change in the well, always using precaution if the trimming. It seems that everyone cleaner is inflammable. Freshen remembers the trimming, if it is a veils by sponging or dipping in lit tle unusual, more than the shape cleaner; stiffen veils by placing beof the hat. Therefore, you can tween wax paper, with wrapping take a good basic hat and have sev- paper under and over, and press

MAKE YOUR OWN FALL HAT
683 with a hot iron. Clean velvet by spotting. Clean velvet ribbon by placing a dampened cloth over an upturned iron and pulling the ribbon along the surface edge of the iron. This forces the pile outward and takes out wrinkles.
Sewing the Trimming
Flowers, feathers, and other hat ornaments and trimmings may be sewed to the hat with the tack-andtie stitch, which is stronger and less noticeable than the continuous stitch. Always use thread of a matching color, and, if you do not have access to millinery thread, you can take ordinary thread and slide it over some beeswax to make it strong. In doing all of your millinery sewing you will find it easier to use a milliner's needle, which is longer than the ordinary needle.
Two important rules for sewing hats are: 1. Do not oversew; use only the necessary stitches.
2. Hide all stitches, except where the stitching is used for special ornamentation.
(jDeyond the Seasons Changing
Grace Sayre
Each dusty, brown road staggers
Through depths of aster haze
To carry sumac torches
For lambent autumn days.
Beyond the season's changing,
Each autumn flare shall blend
Along each reddened roadway
Where gypsy fires ascend.
Luestgn for JLeaves
Miih Greenwood Thayne
It's easy to imagine
Till one almost believes
That scores of cookie cutters
First cut out the leaves.
So many shapes and sizes
Some fancy, others plain,
With scalloped edge and etchings traced
Through every slender vein.
And while they wait for winter's snow
To freezer pack them down,
They cool from summer's searing heat,
Sun-baked a golden brown.
And some crisp autumn morning,
Don't be surprised to see
Each crunchy, toasted, amber leaf
Frosted daintily. o/ Vi/outd Sing
Mary Gustafson I would sing of the wind in the redwood;
A squirrel that scampers its limbs;
Thrushes that carol a melody
Of praises and psalms and hymns.

I would sing of the rippled river,
And the ferns that line its way
As it goes from a spring beginning
Down to the width of bay.

I would sing of the trail I travel,
Dusty and soft to the feet,
Of the bluffs where the eagles gather
Away from the dust or heat.

I would sing of the stars that welcome
The traveler to balsam bed,
And a cover that scents of the forest
As the night drifts overhead.