[Woman's Sphere by Ramona W. Cannon]

Woman's Sphere Ramona W, Cannon UCY SMITH (Mrs. Thomas B.) CARDON, oldest resident of Logan, Utah, died August 2oth at the age of one hundred years. Intelligent, beautiful, and charming, she was the mother of eleven outstanding sons and daughters. She was president of the Cache Stake Relief Society for twenty-three years, and a member of the general board of Relief Society from 1892 to 1902. RS. IVY BAKER PRIEST, a Latter-day Saint from Bountiful, Utah, is assistant chairman of the National Republican Committee in charge of the women's division. She has a busy schedule in Washington, D. C., and is speaking in many states. RS. ADA DYER RUSSELL, eighty-nine, retired character actress-and a native of Salt Lake City, who played many famous roles in the old Salt Lake Theater, died in July 1952. She appeared in the farewell performance in October 1928 and was instrumental in having the bronze plaque placed on the theater site. As a young actress she toured Australia and Europe, and.
While returning home from a London engagement, she met the well-known New England poet, Amy Lowell, later becoming her close friend and secretary. /7 CQ-—> EDITORIAL m9 

VOL.
 NO. 10 'Seedtime and JGtlarvest While the earth remaineth, seedtime and harvest, and cold and heat, and summer and winter, and day and night shall not cease (Genesis 8:22). NOW in the season of the richness of the earth and the gathering of the harvest, we are reminded again of the ancient promise that the earth will continue to respond to the labor of men and women, that it will produce food for us, and yield also ' the beauty, and the color, and the comfort of its changing seasons. From earliest times men have rejoiced in the splendor of earth and have derived great satisfaction and exalted joy in contemplating the endless possibilities and the enduring grandeur of this "footstool of heaven." Not only have the natural garden spots of earth been loved by the children of men, but the waste places and the wilderness have also been endeared to those whose lives have been spent in lands of little rain.. Poets and prophets from earliest recorded time have expressed their close communion with the earth, even as Isaiah portrayed the exaltations of his people: "Sing, O heavens; and be joyful, O earth; and break forth into singing, O mountains: for the Lord has comforted his people" (Isaiah 49:13). In the desert places and the mountains of Palestine, Jesus found comfort and rest to his soul. The shores of Galilee, the valley of the Jordan, the arid hills of juclea,  and the environs of his home in Nazareth were rest places on his journeys and quiet havens where he communed through prayer with his Father in heaven. In all ages, men and women who have lived close to the earth have derived strength and serenity—purpose and fulfillment, from communion with mountains and _ valleys, fields and forests, realizing the truth of the ancient words: "The earth is the Lord's and the fulness thereof." To the home seekers of the latter days, the mountain valleys, in their awesome splendor, lay before the pioneers as a land of promise, a Canaan in the West. And the conquest of the arid land became a soul-inspiring task that minimized the difficulties and the tragedies of drought and floods. Brigham Young once voiced the rejoicings of his people when he said: "How does the earth feel when righteous men and women are walking upon it?. I tell you there is strength in it." One of the disrupting forces of our modern society is the great concentration of population in large centers, where few people have access to the steadying influence of contacts with fields and flowers, the amber beauty of wheatfields and the russet bounty of orchards.