[Work Meeting — Home Management: Providing Order and Convenience in the Kitchen by Rhea H. Gardner]

work meeting leader; Minnie Dills, First Counselor, Florida Stake Relief Society. On the fifth Tuesday in April an inspirational program was given, and a covereddish luncheon followed. Forty — made in preparation for Mother's Day, were displayed. Josephine Jenkins is president of Florida Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Jane T. Richards BRITISH MISSION, LIVERPOOL DISTRICT PRESENTS PAGEANT "THE ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF RELIEF SOCIETY," April 26, 1952
This beautifully staged and inspirational pageant was written by Elsie Scott of the Preston Branch, staged by Bessie Corless, also of Preston, and directed by Ida Taylor, Relief Society Supervisor of the Liverpool District. The first scene portrayed the organization of Relief Society in Nauvoo, Illinois, March 17, 1842; the second scene represented the expulsion from Nauvoo. Il the third scene, the work of the NOTES FROM THE FIELD —l—oaae 7h 691. Visiting teachers was given, followed by a portrayal of the educational program of Relief Society. The last scene pictured welfare work, with the sisters grouped around a sewing machine. "The grand finale," reports Sister Corless, "was when all the participants in the pageant (fifty-two) assembled on the stage and sang 'Oh, Blest Was the Day When the Prophet and Seer.' The pageant was thoroughly enjoyed by every one of the 170 persons present." Jane T. Richards has recently been released from presiding over the Relief Societies of the British Mission, and Elizabeth B. Reiser is the newly appointed president. A aed et ear ae Photograph submitted by Gladys R. Winter. SAN FRANCISCO STAKE (CALIFORNIA) RELIEF SOCIETY BOARD DISPLAYS PIONEER ENCAMPMENT TABLE AT SOCIAL May 22, 1952 At left, seated: Florence M. Costa, Secretary; at right, seated: Roxey W. Kanzler, in charge of the stake canning project; Orel Elder, director of the trouser project. Standing, left to right: Ann R. Barton; Josephine T. Danford; Gladys R. Winter, President, San Francisco Stake Relief Society; Jacketta M. Quealy, who designed and furnished all the articles for the table; Jessie B. Martin, Education Counselor; Leeta N. Squire; Mary W. Tolley; Deane K. White; Laura R. Pugmire; Edna N. Somers, Work Director Counselor. The Stake Relief Society board entertained the women of the stake at this unique and most enjoyable social in recognition of the splendid work done in completing 784 pairs of trousers, for the welfare assignment in less than four months. The program and reception were climaxed by the beautifully detailed and historic representation of a pioneer encampment. All the figures and wagons were made by hand. Sagebrush was sent from Wyoming, and branches, to represent trees, were brought from over two hundred miles. Sheology—Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon Lesson 12—Lehi's Later Exhortations Elder Leland H. Monson (Text: The Book of Mormon, 2
Nephi, Chapters 1-4, 12) For Tuesday, January 6, 1953
Objective: To realize the great concern of Lehi for his people and the necessity of obeying the commandments of prophets. N the declining years of his life, Lehi showed much concern for his people. He worried about the wickedness of part of the members of the colony, which had been established in the land of promise. He warned them of dark days ahead, except they repented. He repeated to them what the Lord had said: "Inasmuch as ye shall keep my commandments ye shall prosper in the land; but inasmuch as ye will not keep my commandments ye shall be cut off from my presence" (2
Nephi 1:20). This land, he told his colony, had been promised to him and his seed forever and ""There shall none come into this land save they shall be brought by the hand of the Lord" (2
Nephi 1:6). Lehi warned, moreover, that if his descendants were wicked, God would bring other nations here to inherit the land, who would take their possessions from them and would smite and scatter them. On the other hand, he pointed out that  if those whom the Lord should bring out of the land of Jerusalem would keep his commandments, they should "be kept from all other nations, that they may possess this land unto themselves" (2
Nephi 136). It accordance with this promise, we know that the Lord veiled the land from the time that Zedekiah was carried away captive into Babylon and the Mulekites came to the promised land, until Columbus discovered America. During this time the Lord developed in Europe a freedom-loving people, and CoImbus and others were directed to this land. They scattered the remnants of Lehi's seed and took most of their best land from them. Later, the great Constitution of the United States was established under divine guidance which guaranteed religious liberty. 'Then the Lord restored his gospel through the Prophet Joseph Smith, and in accordance with ancient promises it was carried to the remnant of Lehi's descendants.
LESSON DEPARTMENT To return to Lehi's exhortations, he further told his children that God had been merciful to them by directing them out of Jerusalem. He told them that in vision he had seen that Jerusalem had been destroyed. He cautioned the querulous and disobedient members of his family not to rebel against Nephi, and delivered a very convincing and moving defense of Nephi, saying, "He hath not sought for power nor authority over you, but he hath sought the glory of God, and your own eternal welfare" (2
Nephi 1:25). He promised them if they would listen to the voice of Nephi they would not perish (2
Nephi 1:28). After Lehi had finished speaking to his sons, especially Laman and Lemuel, he singled out other individuals and groups for the purpose of blessing and instructing them. He promised Zoram, the servant of Laban, who had accompanied them to the land of promise, that because he was a true friend to Nephi, and 'faithful, his seed should be blessed -upon the land of promise with Nephi's seed, provided they kept the commandments of the Lord (2
Nephi 1:30-32). Turning then to Jacob, the first son who had been born amidst much tribulation and hardship in the wilderness, he blessed, comforted, and instructed him. He told Jacob, that God "shall consecrate thine afflictions for thy gain" (2
Nephi 2:2), thus giving us a fundamental concept of Mormonism. Shakespeare recognized the principle when, in his play, As You Like It, he had Duke Senior say: _ Father, and I 693
Sweet are the uses of adversity, Which, like the toad, ugly and venomous, Wears yet a precious jewel in_ his head. Out of the furnace of affliction we may emerge refined as pure as gold. Hardships are a good meanis of discipline. (See D. & C., section 122:7.) He instructed Jacob that "tedemption. Cometh in and through the Holy Messiah," who would offer himself as a sacrifice for the sins of mankind, and would atone for the sins of all those who would repent. Modern revelation states: For behold, I, God, have suffered these things for all, that they might not suffer if they would repent; But if they would not repent they must suffer even as I; Which suffering caused myself, even God, the greatest of all, to tremble because of pain, and to bleed at every pore, and to suffer both body and spirit—and would that I might not drink the bitter cup, and shrink—Nevertheless, glory be to the partook and finished my preparations unto the children of men (D. & C. 19:16-19). Lehi explained to Jacob that: "it must needs be, that there is an opposition in all things' (2
Nephi 2:11), righteousness and wickedness, holiness and misery, good and bad, so that man might have freedom of choice, free agency, under which plan there could be true growth and development. And thou hast beheld in thy youth his [the Lord's] glory; wherefore, thou art - blessed even as they unto whom he shall minister in the flesh; for the Spirit is the same, yesterday, today, and forever. And the way is prepared from the fall of man, and salvation is free. And men are instructed sufficiently that they know good from evil. And the law is given unto men. And by the law 694 no flesh is justified; or, by the law men are cut off. Yea, by the temporal law they were cut off; and also, by the spiritual law they perish from that which is good, and become miserable forever. Wherefore, redemption cometh in and through the Holy Messiah; for he is full of grace and truth. Behold he offereth himself a sacrifice for sin, to answer the ends of the law, unto all those who have a broken heart and a contrite spirit; and unto none else can the ends of the law be answered. Wherefore, how great the importance to make these things known unto the inhabitants of the earth, that they may know that there is no flesh that can dwell in the presence of God, save it be through the merits, and mercy, and grace of the Holy Messiah, who layeth down his life according to the flesh, and taketh it again by the power of the Spirit, that he may bring to pass the resurrection of the dead, being the first that should rise. Wherefore, he is the firstfruits unto God, inasmuch as he shall make intercession for all the children of men; and they that believe in him shall be saved. And because of the intercession for all, all men come unto God; wherefore, they stand in the presence of him, to be judged of him according to the truth and holiness which is in him. Wherefore, the ends of the law which the Holy One hath given, unto the inflicting of the punishment which is affixed, which punishment that is affixed is in opposition to that of the happiness which is affixed, to answer the ends of the atonement. For it must needs be, that there is an opposition in all things. If not so, my first-born in the wilderness, righteousness could not be brought to pass, neither wickedness, neither holiness nor misery, neither good nor bad. Wherefore, all things must needs be a compound in one; wherefore, if it should be one body it must needs remain as dead, having no life neither death, nor corruption nor incorruption, happiness nor, misery, neither sense nor insensibility. 
Wherefore, it must needs have been created for a thing of naught; wherefore there would have been no purpose in theend of its creation. Wherefore, this thing must needs destroy the wisdom of God and his eternal purposes, and also the power, and the mercy, and the justice of God. And if ye shall say there is no law, ye shall also say there is no sin. If ye shall say there is no sin, ye shall also say there is no righteousness. And if there be no righteousness there be no happiness. And if there be no righteousness nor happiness there be no punishment nor misery. And if these things are not there is no God. And if there is no God we are not, neither the earth; for there could have been no creation of things, neither to act nor to be acted upon; wherefore, all things must have vanished away. And now, my sons, I speak unto you these things for your profit and learning; for there is a God, and he hath created all things, both the heavens and the earth, and all things that in them are, both things to act and things to be acted upon. And to bring about his eternal purposes in the end of man, after he had created our first parents, and the beasts of the field and the fowls of the air, and in fine, all things which are created, it must needs be that there was an opposition, even the forbidden fruit in opposition to the tree of life; the one being sweet and the other bitter.: Wherefore, the Lord God gave unto man that he should act for himself. Wherefore, man could not act for himself save it should be that he was enticed by the one or the other (2
Nephi 2:4-16). God established the plan of free agency and gave it to Adam and Eve in the garden of Eden. They were free to partake or to refrain from eating the fruit of the forbidden tree. Eve was deceived, but Adam _ knowingly partook of the fruit, realizing that Eve would be LESSON DEPARTMENT driven from the garden, and consequently they would be able to multiply and replenish the earth. As Lehi presented the problem, "Adam fell that men might be; and men are, that they might have joy" (2
Nephi 2:25). According to Lehi's instructions to Jacob:... They are free to choose liberty and eternal life, through the great mediation of all men, or to choose captivity and death, according to the captivity and power of the devil; for he seeketh that all men might be miserable like unto himself (2
Nephi 2:27). Choosing liberty and eternal life, men would achieve the full purpose of existence, which is joy (2
Nephi Ziel) After concluding his remarks to Jacob, Lehi turned to Joseph, who was also born in the wilderness, and encouraged, instructed, and blessed him. To Joseph, Lehi explained that he was a descendant of Joseph who was sold into Egypt, and that God had made great covenants with Joseph in Egypt and with his seed. From his seed was to come a righteous branch of the house of Israel, not the Messiah, but another branch. But Lehi pointed out that this Messiah, Jesus Christ, would visit his posterity. From the descendants of Joseph who was sold into Egypt, the Lord, so Lehi taught his son, would raise up a choice seer, whose name would be Joseph and whose father's name would be Joseph, referring, of course to Joseph Smith, Junior, the prophet, and his father, Joseph Senior. And unto him will I give commandment that he shall do a work for the fruit of thy loins, his brethren, which shall be 695 of great worth unto them, even to the bringing of them to the knowledge of the covenants which I have made with thy fathers (2
Nephi 3:7). Lehi quoted Joseph in Egypt as saying:. The fruit of thy loins shall. Write; and the fruit of the loins of Judah shall write; and that which shall be wntten by the fruit of thy loins, and also that which shall be written by the fruit of the loins of Judah [referring to The Book of Mormon and the Bible] shall grow together, unto the confounding of false doctrines and laying down of contentions, and establishing peace among the fruit of thy loins, and bringing them to the knowledge of their fathers in the latter days, and also to the knowledge of my covenants, saith the Lord (2
Nephi 3:12). Lehi promised his son Joseph that his seed should not be destroyed because they would hearken to the words of the book (2
Nephi 3:23). Nephi tells us of the greatness of the prophecies which Joseph of Egypt had made concerning them and their future generations which were written upon the plates of brass (2
Nephi 4:1-2) about which Lehi spoke to the sons and daughters of Laman and Lemuel. Lehi told them that if they were brought up in the way they should go, they would not depart from it. Therefore, he told them that if they were cursed he would leave his blessing upon them that the cursing might be taken from them and answered upon the heads of their parents. He promised that God would be merciful to their seed forever and forever because of his blessing. Referring to the Lamanites of the last days, he said that in the end they should be blessed (2
Nephi 4:6-9). 696 We are not informed as to what Lehi said to the sons of Ishmael. To Sam, however, he gave the promise that his seed should inherit the land like unto Nephi's, that his seed should be numbered with the seed of Nephi, and that Sam should be blessed in all his days. After this great patriarch of The Book of Mormon had blessed and instructed his household "according to the feelings of his heart and. The Spirit of the Lord which was in him, he waxed old. And it came  to pass that he died, and was buried" (2
Nephi 4:12). Questions and Problems 1. Why is the doctrine of free agency superior as a means of developing character to the doctrine of predestination? 2. Why did the Lord create a world in which we have opposites, good and evil, love and hate, etc? 3. What is meant by the statement, "Men are that they might have joy'? 4. What promises were given to the seed of Joseph in Egypt? 5- How, through his instructions, did Lehi show concern for his people? Visiting Seacher ITlessages Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Lesson 12—"Wo Be Unto Him That Is at Ease in Zion!" (2
Nephi 28:24). Leone O. Jacobs, For Tuesday, January 6, 1953
Objective: of Satan. JF there were any place in the world one would naturally suppose he could be at ease, that place would be in Zion. However, constant' vigilance is necessary always, even in Zion, for evil is not banished from the earth. The words of the song by Eliza R.
Snow aptly express this thought: THINK NOT, WHEN YOU GATHER TO ZION _ Think not when you gather to Zion, Your troubles and trials are through That nothing but comfort and pleasure Are waiting in Zion for you: No, no, 'tis designed as a furnace, All substance, all textures to try, To burn all the "wood, hay, and stubble," The gold from the dross purify....
Think not when you gather to Zion, The prize and the victory won.
Think not that the warfare is ended, To point out the need for being always on guard against the wiles The work of salvation is done. No, no; for the dread prince of darkness A tenfold exertion will make, When he sees you go to the fountain, Where freely the truth you may take. (Hymns, Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, 1950 edition, page — 2am).
When we are complacent, satisfied with ourselves, that is the time we are most vulnerable to the enticings of Satan.
When we are at ease Satan may lull us away "into carnal security," causing us to mistakenly believe all is well.
This false sense of security is extremely dangerous. So long as there is any iniquity in Zion, all is not well, and we must not be at ease. We should take nothing for granted. As parents, we should not take the security and well-being of LESSON DEPARTMENT our children for granted. To be confident that our children can do no wrong, is to court trouble, for as long as any of us shall live, there are temptations to which we might succumb.
Only he that endureth to the end is secure. Our General Authorities are ever counseling parents to know at all times where and with whom their children are.
Certainly we should not take the gospel for granted. 'The gospel is like a precious but tender plant which must be nurtured and cared for constantly, in order that it may grow and continue to flourish. A knowledge of the gospel does not carry over from one generation to another.
Each individual must study and know it for himself. We cannot rest on the good deeds and characters of honored ancestors. No matter how gloriously our forebears have lived and died, no matter how valiant they have been in the testimony of Jesus, they 697 cannot add to our spiritual stature.
John the Baptist, in speaking to the multitude, said: Bring forth therefore fruits worthy of repentance, and begin not to say within yourselves, We have Abraham to our father: for I say unto you, That God is able of these stones to raise up children unto Abraham (Luke 3:8). We cannot rest on the laurels of past years of service. Occasionally. -we hear someone say, "I think I have done my share. All these years I have labored. Now I deserve a rest." As well might we say, "I have eaten all these years, I think that should suffice." Our spirits are in need of constant nourishment just as much as our bodies. Let us not be deceived nor blinded by the craftiness of men, nor by flattery, nor by false doctrine circulated in our midst. Let us ever be on the watchtower, as it were, on guard against any encroachment of the evil one. Work ITleeting—Home Management (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 4—Providing Order and Convenience in the Kitchen Rhea H. Gardner For Tuesday, January 13, 1953 RDERLY homes do not just happen.
They are the result of careful planning, the cultivation of orderly habits, and the desire by all family members to be orderly.
Planning the Kitchen Ideally, houses are adapted to the ~needs of the family. Too often the family must adapt itself to the house. It is much easier to be orderly when each part of the house is planned for the particular work or activity that is to be carried on there.
Much storage space is often wasted because the space is not efficiently planned. Space, _particularly in the kitchen, is valuable, 

698  not as so many inches or feet, but how well it is adapted to the articles that are to be placed in it.
Homemakers would do well to make a blueprint of their daily and weekly activities before making any change in their homes, especially their kitchens.
With each activity, such as food preparation, cooking, and cleaning, make a list of all the supplies you will need.
This information will provide facts on: how much storage space is needed; how deep and how far apart shelves should be; and what special subdivisions of space 'are needed. The arrangement of large equipment plays an important part in the degree of order that exists in the kitchen.
Homemakers make more trips between the sink and stove than between any other pieces of equipment. The three most important pieces of equipment, the refrigerator, the stove, and the sink should be arranged in close proximity, with adequate working space separating them. We really have three centers of work: the food preparation and mixing center, including the refrigerator; the cooking and serving center, including the range; and the sink work center. Utensils, supplies, and dishes should be stored as near as possible to their point of first use in each center.
This would make it necessary to have duplicates of a few items, such as knives, measuring cups, and spoons.
Have a Place for Everything All of us are not fortunate enough to have our kitchens especially planned for us.
This need not license us to be disorderly, however.
Rather we should let this be a challenge to see how convenient and orderly we can make them.
Doing so can be lots of fun. — A small planning desk, conveniently located, makes it possible for the homemaker to do her record keeping and planning while meals are cooking. We must know where we are going to place every single item. To have a place for everything and to keep everything in its place cuts housework. It should become automatic to take out from theit storage spaces, different ingredients, mixing bowls, pots, and pans, and later put them back where they belong. | To test the efficiency of the present arrangement of things in your kitchen, make note of all the "side" trips you take the next time you prepare a meal, or even a single dish for a meal. See how many of these you can eliminate by reorganizing things. By rearranging the equipment and supplies in her kitchen, an Iowa homemaker teduced the distance she walked, in doing her kitchen work, from five miles each day, or 1,825 miles a year, to two and a half miles a day, or half the distance. She also did the work in one hour less time each morning.
After you have assembled everything according to "first use" you will likely find that you have only half enough space in your cupboards. Do not become discouraged, for many kitchen cupboards can be made to hold twice as much as they now hold.
Shelves often are placed too far apart for efficient use of all the space.
Many are so deep that, if LESSON DEPARTMENT we used all the space, we would have to place things three or four tows deep.
What chance would a homemaker have to keep her cupboards orderly with such an arrangement?
Remedies for such conditions are numerous, inexpensive and fun to make, if you enjoy using a saw, hammer, sandpaper, and surface finishes. If you do not enjoy making over the shelves and cupboards yourself, they can be purchased in just the kind and size to suit your needs. Partial, or narrow shelves, placed between the main ones, provide space for medium and small items.
Door racks also help to utilize space that otherwise is wasted.
They may be made or purchased to hold a wide variety of things, such as spices, extracts, lids, soaps, scouring powders, and glasses.
Hooks screwed into the inside of the door will hold measuring cups, spoons, and other small articles. It is a great convenience to have a utility closet in or near the kitchen, with space for storing the carpet sweeper, brooms, vacuum, and cleaning equipment.
Hooks can be used on the inside of the door for hanging brushes and dusters. The purpose of fitting cupboards with these conveniences is not only so there will be a place for every- 699 thing where it is used first, but also to eliminate the stacking of things.
Only dishes of the same size and kind should be stacked together.
Nothing should be more than one row deep, except where there are two or more packages of the same thing.
When this is done, everything is clearly visible and easily accessible. Cupboards _arranged in this way are no problem to keep orderly and clean. 'They are also most convenient to use.
Thoughts for Discussion What are some of the "fruits" of aaetty homes? Of disorderly homes? 2. Abraham Lincoln once said, "A person can be about as happy as he makes up his mind to be."
Cannot the same thing be said about being orderly? 3.
Have class members tell of conveniences for order they have discovered. Lesson Reference Material "Kitchen Cupboards That Simplify Storage," Cornell Extension Bulletin No. 703, Mailing Dept., Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y., 5c each. "Kitchen Cupboard Conveniences for Order and Ease in Working," Utah State Agricultural College Extension Service Fact Sheet.
Utah residents contact local county Extension offices.
Nonresidents send to Utah State Agricultural College, Extension Service, Logan, Utah, 5c per copy. ~~ «<2 —