[Vol46 | June 1959 | Sequence: 35 | Category: Lesson | Title: Literature | Author: Jacobs]
Literature — A. New Nation Speaks (Textbook: America's Literature, by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes, Dryden Press, New York) Preview of Lessons for 1959-60 Elder Briant S. Jacobs RVEN after a quarter of a century had elapsed following the momentous days of 1776, when the thirteen colonies first became a separate Nation, they were still separate from each other within the whole. After the first extended period of shooting ended, a second revolution within the budding Nation occurred. A war fought with words rather than with rifles, according to 'Thomas Jefferson, the revolution of 1800 was as severe as the first one. Once the unity achieved in fighting a common foe had passed, the diverse interests and beliefs sought to have themselves proved through controversy and trial. Many of the knotty problems which arose are eternal ones, always to be faced, never to be resolved finally. Before 1775 no one sought separation and independence: how could goals be sought of which no one had yet conceived an inward vision? From about 1773 on, however, to such perceptive minds as Benjamin Frankhn, the disagreeable possibility of rebelling against the dictates of English Parliament and King became first a remote alternative, then more and more often mentioned until events on both sides made it finally a necessity. But it was forced upon the colonists, forced not so much by the acts of Mother England as by their own English-bred estimates of what man's rights were and what his government's relations to him should be. In many ways the period was the most imaginative, dynamic, and creative in our national history, not in culture, polite literature, and the arts, but in erecting the solid uses of land, property, education, government, and religion which ever since have been the foundations upon which our sustaining institutions and philosophies have been built. Once these were hewn out in the rough and laid solidly in place, the maturity which comes with the years would produce our great literature of ripeness; meanwhile practical writings produced by practical pens recorded for our eyes a living cross section of an emerging Nation. Save for Byrd and mildly for Franklin, the writers comprising this year's course wrote because the compelling and immediate truth must be told now; the impact of their telling it upon the present was necessary to help shape the events of the moment. Thus these writers gain their power through condensation, directness, and immediate application of their subject material to their surrounding realities. Or, in other words, this year's writers are not imaginative, but American. The lessons and objectives for the second year are as follows: Page 407 408 Lesson 9—Introduction: Light and Fire Objective: To sketch the background for changes in the American mind before and after the Revolutionary War. Lesson 10—Benjamin Franklin, Printer (1706-1790) (Text, pp. 95-122) Objective: To review some of Franklin's contributions to the American character. Lesson 11—Dr. Benjamin Franklin, Retired (Text, pp. 95-122) Objective: To review Franklin's literary versatility and so better appreciaate his native endowments. Lesson 12—Two Early American Quakers: Penn and Woolman (Text, pp. 123-127) Objective: To understand more fully the Quaker contribution to the American mind and culture. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1959 Lesson 13—I'wo Fighteenth - Century Observers: Byrd and Creve: coeur (Text, pp. 73-83, 127-136) Objective: To contrast two evaluations of early American character. Lesson 14—Thomas Paine, Revolutionist (Text, pp. 137-148) Objective: To evaluate Thomas Paine's contribution to the ideal of freedom. Lesson 15—The Federalists and the Great Transition (Text, pp. 24-32) Objective: 'To make preliminary acquaintance with the Federalistic concepts of man and government as written by 'Timothy Dwight and Alexander Hamilton. Lesson 16—Thomas Jefferson (1743 1826) (Text, pp. 149-154) Objective: To understand and appreciate Jefferson's contribution to the American way of life.