[Vol46 | June 1959 | Sequence: 10 | Category: General Feature | Title: Editorial | Author: Crawford]
EDITORIAL m9 VOL. 


 NO. 6 She 129th Annual Church Conference THE 129th Annual Conference of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was held in the historic 'Tabernacle in Salt Lake City, April 4, 5, and 6, 1959, with President David O. McKay conducting all the general sessions, and with all the General Authorities present. Radiant spring weather greeted the throngs attending conference, and the messages of reassurance, hope, and spiritual advancement welcomed those who joined together in prayer and rejoicing. The combined choruses from Brigham Young University, the 'Tabernacle Choir, the Choir Men's Chorus, and the Ricks College Choir furnished music for the meetings. 'I'wenty-seven television stations and twenty radio stations throughout the Nation carried the proceedings to listeners who shared the prophetic counsel and the Spirit of our Heavenly Father. RESIDENT McKay recalled the anniversary of the restoration of the gospel and its meaning to all generations of mankind upon the earth: I think it would be well for us to have in mind the fact that one hundred and twenty-nine years ago... In the house of Peter Whitmer, Sr., in Fayette, Windsor County, New York, six men bowed in solemn prayer to their Heavenly Father, and proceeded in accordance with the previous commandment to organize the Church.... They administered the sacraPage 366 ment. They reported that the Spirit of the Lord was manifest in a very great degree. Some of the brethren prophesied. All praised the Lord and rejoiced exceedingly.... It will be well to have in mind that only a little over a century has passed since those six men by revelation organized the Church. The dominant theme of the conference was the advent of Jesus Christ and his message to the world, his gospel of righteousness and salvation, and its eternal import in the lives of all seekers after truth. Emphasis was placed upon the spiritual influence and the responsibilities of those who have accepted the gospel to live its principles and to spread its everlasting tidings of joy to the world. In his address on Sunday, April sth, President McKay addressed the thousands of listeners on the subject "Our Father's Glory Is in the Salvation of His Children." Our beloved President spoke of truth as "loyalty to the right as we see I re. It is courageous living of our lives in harmony with our ideals; it is always power. With the ideals of right living before him, no member of the Church can continually violate the Word of Wisdom with impunity.... One never develops character by yielding to wrong The mission of the Church is to proclaim the truth of the restored gospel, to uplift society that people may mingle more amicably one with another; to create in our communities a wholesome environment in which our children may find strength to resist temptation and encour- EDITORIAL agement to strive for cultural and spiritual attainment. It is the binding duty of leaders of youth, and particularly mothers, by example to make ineffective the influence of designing men who would make profit out of their fellows.... The restored gospel is a rational philosophy that teaches men how to get happiness in this life and exaltation in the life to come. The mission of the Church is to establish the kingdom of God upon the earth. RESIDENT Stephen L Richards spoke to the question "What Does It Mean to Be a Christian?" After describing some of the essentials of a Christian life, President Richards declared: "The gospel as a power unto salvation must embrace not only all the Christlike characteristics of living, but the means essential to salvation." I believe... That a careful survey of all pertinent scriptures, as well as the whole history of Christ's work among men, will demonstrate that only by the complete acceptance of the Christ as our Lord, and subscribing to all the conditions and requirements of his holy gospel, including its sacred ordinances govering induction into his kingdom, can a man fully justify a claim to the honorable distinction of being a Christian. It would seem beyond question that there could not be more than one kingdom of the Lord. So the concern of all who seek Christian salvation must be: Where is that kingdom? Where is it set up in the earth that men may come to it and receive its transcendent blessings?... I am convinced beyond the shadow of a doubt that his gospel has been restored in its fulness with all its ordinances, and the powers authentically to administer them in these last days. PRESIDENT J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Reviewed in detail the resurrection of Jesus and the meaning of that event to mankind. President Clark spoke of those faithful men and women who were privileged to behold the resurrected Savior and hear his words of assurance and 367 blessing. "This is Easter time," said President Clark. "The celebration of the resurrection has just passed, and sometimes there is a tendency to think that thereafter the Lord ascended and we have nothing more to do about it." In summarizing the teachings of Jesus, after his resurrection, President Clark said: Finally, he called them together again on a mount in Galilee, the disciples, and at that time he gave them the great commission, "Go ye into all the world, and preach the gospel to every creature." Those are the words of the Christ. Then he told them of the signs which should follow them that believed. We, brethren and sisters, are the recipients of the great blessings that attach to the work of the Last Dispensation. We are also the obligees of the great responsibilities which have been placed upon those whom God has called to lead this Last Dispensation The Lord is good to us. He is giving us direction if we will take it. I urge you to bring your thoughts back from space... About which we know nothing in comparison with what there is to know —and fix our minds upon the great powers and authorities which we have as members of the Priesthood, representing our Heavenly Father, endowed with a portion "of his authority to work out his purposes, not ours. At the closing session of conference, President McKay expressed his fervent hopes and prayers: "God help us to be true to our responsibility and to our callings, and especially to the responsibility we bear as fathers and mothers of the children of Zion — heaven's treasures given to us. O Father, bless those who hold this Priesthood, who have been married in accordance with thy instructions, and God help all to take advantage of this eternal biessing, that we may be united together and with thee forever." —V. P. C. Wotes. TO THE FIELD Program for the Vloverntber Sast Sunday &vening ITleeting THE special program for the Sunday evening meeting on Fast Day, November 1, 1959, "Relief Society Strengthens Testimony," has been mailed to stake and mission Relief Society presidents. We urge that these programs be distributed to the wards and branches without delay.