[Vol46 | June 1959 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Fiction | Title: The | Author: Russell]
The Ladder of Love Margaret Russell AM a mother. I have a daughter. A little girl with a round head and a fuzz of hair and a mouth and nose and a blue-black stare. I can see Calvin in her forehead and cheek bones, but her chin is mine. And I become for a moment a Biblical cup, overflowing with awe and wonder and a welling, swelling sense of fulfillment. And I turn my head that the other mothers may not see and desecrate my emotion. I remember a doll I loved as a child, a hairless, armless creature that I washed and dressed and wrapped in a blanket and held, at mealtimes, to my breast. And [I remember my cat 'Timothy. I remember the warmth of him as he lay in my lap, the throb and arch of his body when my hand moved along his back. And I remember lifting him to my face and looking long and searchingly into his eyes, seeking for I knew not what. And I remember standing within the circle of my mother's arms with the grass at my feet and the sky overhead, and trying to purr. And I remember the wild excitement of being flung high into the air by my father and the joy of being held close afterward. And I think of the dearness of Calvin and the vital, pouring warmth that we share. I turn again to my daughter. And touch a tiny, translucent finger. And experience a new kind of love. A sort of apotheosis of the feeling I have for Calvin when he is tired or discouraged. And I know we have created something very precious, Calvin and I. Something to cherish and love and care for. A daughter adaughter a daughter. The nurse says, "I must take her back now, Mrs. Davis." And I cry, "Oh, please! No! Not yet." But she smiles and reaches out purposefully. So I drop a kiss on the Calvin-like forehead and let the little fingers curl around one of my big ones until they are pulled away. And the room is quiet and _ relaxed and peaceful. I sleep in a crystal pool of happiness. Please KK KK HK QGOMEONE takes my hand, and I know before I open my eyes that it is Calvin, and that he is sad. And my crystal pool of happiness is roiled by a stick of foreboding. "The baby!" I whisper, while my heart pounds. "The baby." Calvin's face is twisted, the doctor's grim. They push my bed out of the room and down the hall to another, smaller room. And _ they tell me that the baby is dead, that the few minutes I had with her are all I will ever have. And I reject their words. With all the strength of my being I reject them. I turn myself into a hard little ball that nothing can penetrate. Because I am a mother, and I have a daughter. A sweet, living baby whose tiny, delicate hands are going to grow plump and dimpled. Page 385 386 And dig dirt. And grip a pencil. And accept a diploma. And wear a ring. I hear Calvin weeping, and I reject that, too. Let him cry. Let him be hurt. Let him suffer alone. Because I cannot comfort him without acknowledging a horror that cannot, must not be. I squeeze my eyes shut, seeking RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1959 blackness, oblivion. But instead I see again my armless, hairless doll; my sleek, throbbing Timothy; my parents; my husband; my child. And love stirs within me and will not be denied. I hold out my arms to Calvin and to grief. And as he buries his head on my shoulder I know that this, too, is' fulfillment. —< A Challenge to Mothers Leona Fetzer Wintch GELF fulfillment, the very core of life, is realized as we give of ourselves. It answers the question asked since the days of Eve, "What do you want out of life?"" I can hear our Church leaders say, ""Women make their greatest contribution to the Church and the nation, as mothers and teachers." Making this contribution also brings the self-fulfillment we seek, if we work with skill and knowledge, and dedicate ourselves to the lofty calling of motherhood. This requires more than part time, rushed care of children. When Karl G. Maeser said, "Don't be a scrub," he meant, "Don't be mediocre. This is a time for greatness." But how can our children ultimately find their way to do great things, without the constant tutelage of their mothers? When many mothers leave small children to work for added earnings and satisfactions, not because of necessity, we need to ask another pertinent question, "What are the basic needs of children?"' In supplying more wants, children are often encumbered by more "things." When we make it too soft for them, their strength and struggle fade, and we defeat ourselves. No matter how elegantly children are dressed or how luxurious the rugs are in the home, personalities and character will not grow and flourish without a healthful climate in the home which meets these basic needs: Children need to love and to be loved. They need to belong to a family and to friendship groups, because the feeling of being alone withers and warps human beings. They need security, protection, and stability. They need to do at least some things well, and receive praise and approval. They need new experiences, and fun. Children should be taught early and often all we know of the right way of life, and they should be helped to find this pathway. In all these matters we find direction in a knowledge of the gospel, which some have called a map of the spirit. This is something for which we cannot phone to the corner store for delivery, nor will it materialize over the bridge table or the best seller. It is found in the continued quest for wisdom, in prayer, in temples, in classrooms, in association and conversation with the Lord's people, and in living the commandments. With this spiritual map, we envisage the unbounded possibilities of the human spirit. As mothers, we have the prime privilege of arousing in our children a thirst for truth. While it is a privilege, it is also our duty to teach them to seek and love the everlasting things. Even in early life, they should know some of the fundamental truths about which there is no equivocation: that God lives, and that he loves his children, that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God; that he is our Savior, and became the A CHALLENGE TO MOTHERS 387 first fruits of the resurrection; that we, too, will be resurrected; that our good deeds will be rewarded, and that we will have to account for evil doing; that we had an antemortal existence; that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, and that he saw the Father and the Son, and was directed to restore the gospel in its fulness; that the Decalogue is as efficacious now as when given to ancient Israel, that the heavens are open, and that our progression is eternal.* When we inspire our children to pursue truth, we help them prepare themselves to give something worthwhile to the world, and to give of themselves. The Master's teachings are pervaded with the spirit of "It is more blessed to give than to receive." It is the antithesis of, "What, and how much can I get out of the world?" Or, "How can I bring friends and importance to myself?'"' But it says, '""What can I give to the world?" If space-age educational demands are met, schools will have to return to the home some of its functions. Mothers must help in the planning of a better world. Good and great men have always built upon the foundations laid in the home. For those of us with small children, our path is clear. Mothers, whose children are married, can devote thought and time to grandchildren, to little neighbors, or to other children who come "under the wing." To have the capacity to arouse in our children a thirst for truth, is a high achievement. It is no mean task, and it does not fit into the doldrums found at some firesides. It requires divine aid and straight thinking. It challenges our courage, faith, vision, resourccfulness, persistence, and multitudes of virtues. But on the way, and in the end, it brings self-fulfillment, and the good life, too. *Note: For a comprehensive treatise on ultimate truths, see "B. Y. U. Inaugurates New President," Church Section, Deseret News, November 17, 1945, Charge given new President, by President J. Reuben Clark Jr.