[Vol46 | June 1959 | Sequence: 32 | Category: Lesson | Title: LESSON | Author: Doxey]
On the other hand, men LESSON DEPARTMENT whose actions did not always conform to their rich opportunities for full eternal advancement come into discussion, and important lessons are to be learned from their lives. Some lives are to be emulated while others serve to indicate the pitfalls that occur along life's journey. For the class leaders of these lessons it would be well to avoid the temptation to emphasize biographical material in a lesson at the expense of great doctrinal truths and moral lessons. Beginning with the first lesson, we learn the value of membership in the Church and of the necessity to be a true follower of the Savior. After membership, there come the servants of Satan to dissuade one from the course of perfection. 'These should be detected, labeled, and understood for what they are. Ina world beset with many beliefs of men, members of the kingdom are given opportunities to understand their true status in life, together with that of the Lord's other creations. Problems of life are always present, but the light of the gospel gives us, if we will but follow that light, answers of hope and encouragement. 'The Lord's point of view, as he has made it known, is of paramount importance to the members of the Church. The foregoing items suggest the general content of this year's lessons. For general objectives of this course on The Doctrine and Covenants reference should be made to either the June 1957 or June 1958 issues of The Relief Society Magazine. The 1959-60 series of lessons have been given the following titles and objectives: 403 Lesson 17—"Magnify 'Thine Office" (D & C, Sections 23 and 24) Objective: To show the necessity of magnifying one's calling as a member of the Church and also in a position in the Church. Lesson 18—"... Thou Shalt Not Command Him Who Is at Thy Head " (D&C 28:6). (D&C, Sections 28; 43:1-7; 27:5-18) Objective: To show how a Latter-day Saint may judge whether or not a person who professes a revelation for the Church represents the Lord. Lesson 19—Some Future Events (D & C, Section 29:1-29) Objective: To indicate the emphasis which the Lord has put upon future events. Lesson 20—Spiritual Creations (D & C, Section 29:30-50) Objective: To indicate the importance of fundamental gospel teachings given to Adam relating to the Lord's spiritual creations, and some of their implications. Lesson 21—Lessons in Obedience (D & C, Sections 30 and 31) Objective: "Be faithful unto the end, and lo, Iam with you " (D&C 31:13). Lesson 22—And the Kingdom Grew (D & C, Section 32, 33, and 34) Objective: To learn ways by which the kingdom of God grew in the beginning of this dispensation. Lesson 23—A Trial of Faith (D & C, Sections 35, 39, and 4o) Objective: To understand that only those who live the gospel will receive eternal life. 404 Lesson 24—The Great [ Am (D & CG, Sections 36, 37, and 38) RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1959 Objective: To understand the position of Jesus in the plan of salvation and of his concern for his saints. (siting Seacher ITlessages— Truths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants Previcw of Lessons for 1959-60 Christine H. Robinson N these latter days, we are signally blessed to have for our guidance and instruction the words of the Lord given to his prophets not only anciently, but also in modern times. The Doctrine and Covenants contains the word of the Lord given to us in this day, through his Prophet Joseph Smith, and, as stated by President Joseph F'. Smith, "... Contains some of the most glorious principles ever revealed to the world..." (Eighty-Fourth SemlAnnual Conference, October 1913, page 9).