[Vol46 | June 1959 | Sequence: 33 | Category: Fiction | Title: Visiting | Author: Robinson]
visiting teacher messages for the year 1959-60 are, as for the past two years, taken from this modern day scripture. 'These messages are written for you and for me and apply with equal impact to all. They furnish us with the key to right-conduct patterns, which, if followed, will assure us happiness in this life, and will, eventually, lead us back into the presence of our Heavenly Father. This year's messages "Truths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants" place great emphasis on the application of the Lord's words in righteous living. We are reminded that we will receive the companionship of the Lord's spirit and the rich blessings that result, only if we live in accordance with the gospel plan. We are instructed that it is important to receive the Lord's word, but equally important to put his word into effect in our lives. In this year's messages, the Savior admonishes us to seek for wisdom. He reminds us that wisdom comes from the Lord who will give it to us liberally, if we ask him with unwavering faith. 'These messages point out that meekness and steadfastness are important virtues to acquire and exercise, if we would be an influence for good. They further declare that the Lord has given us the holy scriptures for our enlightenment and instruction. However, they stipulate that, if we would benefit from the scriptures, we must know them and put their teachings into effect in our hives. In these "Truths to Live By," we are admonished to put on the armor LESSON DEPARTMENT of Christ as a protective shield against the destroying influences and temptations ever present in our lives. We gain a better understanding of the true meaning of brotherhood. We learn that brotherhood is built on the foundation of respect for, and understanding of others. Furthermore, the Lord counsels us continuously to seek for a knowledge of his truths and conscientiously follow his teachings, if we would be a free people. The messages and their objectives for the year 1959-60 are as follows: Message 17—"... Take Upon You My Whole Armor, That Ye May Be Able to Withstand the Evil Day " (D & C 27:15). Objective: To show that only when we protect oursclves with the whole armor of spirituality can we be sure of the constant companionship of the Lord's Spirit. Message 18—"And Again I Say Unto You, Let Every Man Esteem His Brother as Himself" (D & C 38:25). Objective: To understand the true meaning of brotherhood. Message 19—"He That Receiveth My Law and Doeth It, the Same Is My Disciple " (D & C 41:5). Objective: To show that in order to enjoy the blessings and associations of the Lord's Spirit, we must keep his commandments. Message 20—"Therefore, He That Lacketh Wisdom, Let Him Ask of 405 Me, and I Will Give Him Liberally and Upbraid Him Not" (D & C 42:68). Objective: To show that wisdom comes from God and unless we kcep his commandments, regardless of our learning, we cannot gain wisdom. Message 21—"Wherefore, Hear My Voice and Follow Me, and You Shall Be a Free People " (D&C 38:22). Objective: To show that freedom can only be secured by hearing and following the Savior's teachings. Message 22—"And The Book of Mormon and the Holy Scriptures Are Given of Me for Your Instruction " (D & C 33:16). Objective: To show that only by studying and knowing the scriptures. And by putting them into action in our lives can we benefit from the Lord's instructions. Message 23—"... Govern Your House in Meekness, and Be Steadfast" (D & C 31:9). Objective: The virtues of meekness and steadfastness applied in our lives and homes will result in an influence for good. Message 24—"'Be Faithful Unto the End, and Lo, I Am With You " (D & C 31:13). Objective: Only by enduring to the end can we be with our Father in heaven and hope to reap his choicest: blessings. Work IT leeting—Physical Safety Factors in the Home Preview of Discussions for 1959-60 Charlotte A. Larsen N past years we have discussed various aspects of homemaking which contribute to the health and happiness of the family members. The discussions have included many important subjects: such as finances, home management, beautification, and saving of time and energy. Of great importance to the wellbeing of those residing in the home is a knowledge of the basic rules, procedures, and practices of safety. Whose responsibility is safety? 'The responsibility lies heavily on my shoulders, on your shoulders, on the shoulders of each individual in the community. Safety is everybody's business and can only be fully realized when each individual assumes that responsibility himself, and learns and carries out the rules for safety. Safety begins with you in your home and with me in my home. Only when everyone feels that safety depends on him alone, only if everyone feels that he has a responsibility to others, can we hope to avoid accidents. 'This tule cannot be learned too early. Only when it is learned in childhood will it be carried out in adulthood and keep the person safe throughout his life. The mother in the home is the "Safety Director." Mothers, by taking time to think about safety in the home and by sharing in the discussions with the children, can Page 406 help them to become more conscious of hazards in the home and on the street. This education is primarily a function of the home. Young people and adults become much more safety conscious if, occasionally, the family gather together for a safety council meeting and delegate responsibility to each member of the family. As each individual, then, goes beyond the home, the lessons taught around the family council table have definite effects on his behavior. They will do much to establish the nght attitude towards removing hazards and learning how to live safely with those that cannot be removed. The discussions for the year 1959- 6o are as follows: Discussion 1—Child Safety Discussion 2—Electricity Discussion 3—Fire Hazards Discussion 4—Household Hazards Discussion 5s—Hobby Hazards Discussion 6—Safety Precautions in Medicine and Household Items Discussion 7—Food Care and Preservation Discussion 8—Simple First Aid Helps of tterature—America's