[Vol46 | June 1959 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Article | Title: Relief | Author: Haggard]
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1959 She taught their children piano lessons, and often gave them cookies and punch, and played with them. Why couldn't she become as one of the mothers? The last hair was in place, her nose was powdered with the thinnest skiff of powder, when she heard the front door open and Blaine calling her — as he always did when he ~ didn't see her immediately. "Where are you, honey?' he called in his deep, happy voice, "where are you?" "I'm in here, Blaine. A minute." "Never mind, I'll come and get you." It didn't take him long to come through the small house into the bedroom, where she was standing, ready to walk to him. But she had no chance, for he was beside her, and swept her into his arms and was carrying her from the room. Be out in ER mood extended to him. Of a sudden, she said, "You really don't have to carry me, you know." "Oh, don't [, though?" he asked, mockingly, seeming unusually gay. "No," she insisted, "remember, I can walk now. Not too well, perhaps, but I can walk." He caught the caustic note in her voice and said softly, "I think any man has a right to carry his wife in his arms, especially when that wife is going to be a mother." "What do you mean?" she asked softly. "What are you talking about?" "T mean, my darling, that I met Doctor Sims, and he told me the news. He said there was no reason in the world why you shouldn't get ONE OF THEM along very well. Just be a little bit careful. Oh, honey, why didn't you tell me?" She buried her tear-wet face on his shoulder, sobbing, sobbing, "Oh, I was so afraid, afraid it couldn't be." "Well, it could and it is. Now, just for tonight, let me put you here on the couch and serve your dinner to you. Yes?" "Yes," she nodded, dabbing at her eyes with the inadequate hankie from her apron pocket. The next morning she felt radiant. She was going to have a child! Her very own child. She would stir up a batch of her favorite brownie recipe, make some of her best fruit nectar, and invite her neighbors over for an afternoon of sewing and visiting. Maybe they thought she was being aloof, wanted to be alone, that she really wasn't able to take much part in things. She called each one im turn — Carley Street, Faye Rich, Jan, Sue, all of them. Everyone accepted, some seemed surprised, others enthusiastic. 'That afternoon at two o'clock Patricia saw them coming down the street in groups from both directions. She felt a little pang when she saw that Ruth Marlow wasn't there, for she was one for whom she felt she could feel a real friendship. When all the women had arrived and had insisted on helping to bring in extra chairs, they spoke of how artistically her house was decorated, and were surprised to learn she had done most of it herself. At their surprise, she told them, "It's not difficult to sew on an electric sewing machine, even if one leg won't co- - operate too well." They laughed, surprised that she 377 spoke of it so casually, and they were off to a good visit, sewing and talking. When Patricia served the brownies they all asked for her recipe, Sue saying, "Mine never taste quite like this, yum." They were almost ready to leave when someone remembered to tell her, "The reason Ruth didn't come, she has a sick little boy." T seemed she had no more than said it than the telephone rang and Patricia answered it. 'The frantic voice of Ruth on the other end of the wire cried, "Patricia, I know the girls are all at your place, and I'm frantic. Jimmie is so sick. He's choking and can't get his breath. Someone has to come, I can't get the doctor." Patricia answered calmly, "Ruth, he will be all right. Tl be right over." "Hurry," the young woman cried, "hurry!" Patricia knew that if the others went, too, the confusion would be hard on Ruth and the child. She said, "Ruth's boy is quite sick. There's no need for all of us to rush over, it would only complicate things. I know what to do until the doctor comes. Ill go nght over. One of you call for an ambulance." Faye Rich, who was calm and matter-of-fact, said quietly, "Patricia is right. I'll go with her. You others will be called if you can do anything." Sue cried, "But couldn't one of us go instead of Patricia, she really shouldn't...." Patricia was already at the door, starting down the steps, pulling her leg a little. She called over her shoulder, "Oh, yes, she should. I've 378 seen enough sickness that I don't lose my head, and I know what to do." Once in the house, Patricia and Faye worked perfectly together as a team, Patricia telling Faye what to do. "I think he will be all right, now," Patricia finally told them. Even as she said it, the boy stirred, tried to turn his head, and, finally, opened his eyes to see his mother and said, "Mommie." Ruth gathered him to her, her tears falling in grateful and wonderful relief. "Oh, thank you, thank you," she whispered looking up at the two of them, "I didn't know anyone could have such wonderful friends." Patricia breathed deeply, putting her hand on the dark head. She had called her friend. And she knew that forever after the two of them would be very close. As Patricia and Faye came out of Ruth's house, they could see the other girls a little way from the house. 'They started toward them, but Faye stopped Patricia to say, "I'm not very good with words. But you were wonderful. And there's RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1959 something I've wanted to tell you for weeks. You know the day that Kim came home from her lesson and had a copy of that song you had written called, 'Give God a Chance' mixed in with her music...?" Patricia said, "Yes." 'Well, my mother had just been dead for three months, and I didn't seem to be able to get over it. I just kept grieving. 'Then, I read those words over and over... "Give God a chance to heal your heart...' and so on, and they seemed written especially for me. I kept saying them over and over. Finally, I was able to pull myself out of it. I wanted you to know." "Thank you," Patricia whispered, and she could have added, "they were written for myself,' but she didn't, she merely went forward as if her leg didn't drag at all, to meet her neighbors and her frends, and tell them in confidence and wonder that she was going to have a child, that she was really going to be one of them. Patricia knew, suddenly, that one must not only give God a chance, other people must be given a chance as well. Blue Mlorning-Glories Josie B. Bay Oh, the glory of the morning When morning-glories rare Lift their heads in satisfaction While they drink the dew-kissed air. They are filled to overflowing, With cups of heavenly blue, And they say to all who listen "Let me share my cup with you." GreenWillow Days Shirley Sealy N my home, we all enjoy free agency. My mother and father are firm believers in free agency. Not since the green-willow days have I been forced to do anything. You know what the green-willow days are, don't you? That is the time in your life when you are still too young to understand reason, and your mother uses a little green willow to help you make up your mind. My mother used a little green willow, she explained, because it would sting nicely but would never physically injure us. In this way she was always sure of the safety of her children, if she happened to be a little overexcited when it became necessary to use the willow. I can't remember ever feeling that willow. I suppose I must have felt its sting at one time or another, or I wouldn't have had such great respect for it. But I do remember spending quite a lot of time looking at it as it sat quietly on the top of the refrigerator or the stove; and I was ever mindful of its presence. Mother had another rule of free agency that went with that little willow. We each had to get our own. That way we could choose the size and length of the stick. Otherwise, someone else would get it for us. Of course, no one else is as careful about such things as you yourself. It worked pretty well, though, because by the time we hunted for the right size and type of willow, we usually had forgotten what it was that we didn't want to do. My eldest brother maintains he was willowed more than all of the rest of us put together. He says that's why he turned out better. Mother was quite young then and more set on having a model child. She was always glad in years to come that she had trained him so well. He helpfully kept the rest of us in line. But, thinking back, even then, it was free agency. We could cither decide to do the thing that was right, or feel the sting of the green willow. We always had our choice. It was free agency that helped us to develop our talents. Mother was a believer in the talents. She was always so happy when we showed even the slightest interest in the arts. I remember when my sister wanted to study piano. She innocently asked, one evening, if she could study music and learn to play the piano. Mother was so enthusiastic. Within a month we had a piano, and sister Ellen was studying like mad. Ellen wanted to play the piano in the worst way, but she didn't want to practice. However, it was a matter of free agency. She could either practice her piano a reasonable time every day or stay home from her Saturday shows; and of course it just wasn't logical that she had time to visit her friends if she had no time to practice. Ellen was blessed, fortunately, with a knowledge of how to choose. She is now an accomplished pianist. Of all the things I did at home, I hated washing dishes the worst. You know how it is; you wash and rinse, wash and rinse, the water gets sreasier, and your hands get wrinkled and... Well, you know how Page 3/9 380 it is. I could never find an end to dishes in our house. With seven children, we used a lot of dishes. I was born third in line. My eldest brother didn't think he should have to do any girls' work when he had five sisters. My eldest sister was always busy doing things like making salads for dinner, or sewing, or ironing and scrubbing. All the fun things. Third children, especially if they are girls, should never be born. There isn't anything for them to do but wash dishes. Once I hit upon a real gem of an idea as to how to get out of the dishes. Immediately after dinner I became very ill. Stomach pains, headache... The works. Mother was so thoughtful and tender, so loving and concerned. She immediately put me to bed and insisted I stay there until morning. She loved me very much and didn't want to take any chances. And she knew I wasn't feeling well by the look that came over my face when I eyed that table of dirty dishes. When I protested, she commended me for my bravery, but thought I was much too ill to get out of bed. It was free agency all the way. I could admit the deceit and do the dishes or remain silent and stay in bed. THEN there was the time I wanted to attend a show on Sunday afternoon. <A _ perfectly handsome dream of a boy asked me to go. It was a nice spiritual show. I thought that fact might influence Mother, so I told her that part first. She was so thrilled! Her comments were so enthusiastic you'd have thought he'd asked her to go. Her reply was full of excitement for my good forRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1959 tune, and she said: "Darling, that's wonderful. I'm so happy to know youre interested in good pictures. It's nice to know you're so popular, too. Is Sunday the only day the picture is playing?" In all truthfulness I had to tell her "No." 'To which Mother replied with more enthusiasm than ever: ""That's extra special nice. Now, you won't have to give up all the blessings of the Sabbath Day, will you? What day is this nice young man taking you to the picture, honey?" Again, it was free agency. I could either admit that this nice young man wasn't exactly perfectly, which I was sure he was, or let her go on beheving that her swect little daughter hadn't even thought of giving up the blessings of the Sabbath Day. Sometimes Mother carried free agency too far. Like the time I had a baby tending job and the girls dropped by to take me skating. I thought maybe it would be all right to send my younger sister to baby tend for me, and I could go skating with the girls. My Mother's reply was in the gayest of words. "That might be nice for both of you. Susie wants a little spending money, and you want to learn to skate better. Of course,' she continued just as I was beginning to feel all happy inside, "Mrs. Backman did ask for you when she called. And of course she's expecting you. She had probably planned on a big evening out, knowing she wouldn't have to worry as long as you were with her children. But you have to make up your own mind, dear. Do what you think is best. I'm sure it will be the nght thing." GREEN-WILLOW DAYS If she had just demanded that I stay or that I go; I could have had a delightful time arguing the point with her, but what can you do in the face of such free agency? I'm aware that in this country we live in a democracy. It's important to learn to make wise decisions. I'm happy to relate that, due to such liberal parents, such belicvers in free agency, I have learned to enjoy the good things of life. I have grown up knowing that if one is to have money to spend, one must work. To give the illusion of being beautiful is a matter of style, good taste, clean living, and good health habits. To be a good hostess one must 381 know how to cook, think of others, borrow enough chairs, make a fire, and know how to feel and look hapy when one would much rather shout and throw things. To be loved one must give more love than she receives. I have a lot to do yet, I have a long way to go. But I have learned all these things following the rules of right that free agency taught me. Everything that is dear to me I owe, with gratitude, to my loving parents who are such firm believers in free agency, and to those memorable green-willow days that started me off in the right direction on a wondrous path to true happiness.