EDITORIAL "Upon the Parents" TERNAL progression is only possible through the nghteous exercise of free agency which is given to every soul in this world. While repressive laws may limit the full exercise of free agency, everyone has the power to choose good or evil. When a woman marries she does her part in building a happy marriage by the choices she makes in her everyday actions and works. However, when she and her husband become parents, then their free agency is not only to be exercised in their own behalf, but must also be exercised in behalf of their children, for the responsibility for their eternal welfare has been placed by the Lord upon the parents. A young teacher looked around her class of attentive, seven-year-old boys as she finished a lesson, "And Joseph Smith saw Heavenly Father and his Son Jesus Christ." One of the boys spoke up, "I don't believe it." 'The teacher showed her consternation as did the other boys in the silence that followed. "My daddy says it isn't so," the boy concluded. "Well, Jack," the teacher spoke firmly, "I know he saw them." "So 654 do I," the rest of the class chorused. "My mama says so and so does my daddy," many added. The teacher realized that all the lessons she had so earnestly given Jack the past year had been unable to overcome the false teachings Jack had received at home. Where truth had been instilled in the boys, her well-prepared lessons had strengthened them, but she learned that the words of a teacher, however sincere, had little power to confute the words of a child's parents. Section 68 of the Doctrine and Covenants instructs parents in Zion or in any of her organized stakes to give understanding to their children when eight years old in "the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of the hands," and "to teach their children to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord." This charge cannot be passed on to anyone else or any organization by parents. The Lord has placed it upon the parents. Because of the different duties and responsibilities which devolve upon a father and a mother, it ls SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD B. Hart S. Elliott Mildred B. Eyring Charlotte A. Larsen Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Annie M. Ellsworth the mother who gives the. Hourly training and teachings to the children. From the time a young child prays to his Heavenly Father, a wise mother explains about him and compares Heavenly Father's love and attributes to his earthly father. From the time a child lisps "in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen," the wise mother builds her child's faith in Jesus, the Savior, as the dearly beloved Son of Heavenly Father. The use of proper picture books is a great aid in teaching of the mission of Jesus. 'The child also learns of the principle of repentance as the mother causes him to feel sorry for his misdeeds. He is taught of the blessing of baptism and to realize that after baptism he will be given the Holy Ghost to lead him aright and guide him through his future life. The constant training opportunity given to a dedicated, loving mother to nurture each child in the ways of the Lord, as each new occasion arises, is one of the most cogent reasons why a mother remains in the home. The father, the bearer of the Priesthood, directs the instruction of his children and evaluates their S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp,