VISITING TEACHER MESSAGES Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Message 43 — "Be of Good Cheer" (D & C 61:36). Christine H. Robinson For First Week, Objective: To point out that cheerfulness is an important element of the gospel's teachings. The Lord wants us to be of good cheer. N ancient story told in Hebrew households concerns a_ sage who met the Prophet Elijah in a Busy market place. The sage asked the prophet the character qualities the Lord looks for when he bestows special blessings. Looking over the Square, crowded with barterers and traders, the sage inquired if any of those would earn the Lord's blessings. 'The prophet replied, "None, save these," and pointed to a small group of people obviously lacking in worldly goods but whose faces radiated cheerfulness and kindness. The sage, seeking to learn the reason why these people had been singled out to receive the Lord's blessing, inquired of them as to their virtues and deeds. Their leader replied, "We are poor people. Our main virtue is that we have merry hearts. We seek to bring comfort and hope to those who are discouraged. When we meet one who is sad, we strive to chase away his sorrow and to bring sunshine and good will into his life." As we think of the essential elements "f the gospel, characteristics such as love, faith, hope, charity, and mercy come instantly to mind. Probably but few of us would immediately associate cheerfulness with the Saviors teachings, yet he frequently emphasized _ this quality. For example, on the occasion when the Master's disciples were sailing on the sea and the wind and storm seemed about to engulf them, Jesus came toward them walking on the water, and called to them, saying, "Be of good cheer; it is I; be not afraid" (Matt. 14:27). On several occasions when the Savior healed the sick, he said, "Be of good cheer." (See Matt. 9.2.) After Paul's miraculous conversion, when he was preaching to the people in Jerusalem and they threatened to kill him, "the Lord stood by him, and said, Be of good cheer, Paul" (Acts 23:11). Cheerfulness implies having courage, optimism, confidence, and a feeling of comfort and repose. One thoughtful author has said, "Cheerfulness radiates confidence and enthusiasm. It is the antidote to worry, fear, discouragement.. Cheerfulness gives mental alertness, serenity of mind, and_ broadens 697 698 sympathy. Cheerfulness brings contentment and tranquility" (KLEIsER: Inspiration and Ideals, page 94). To be cheerful means to look for the joy and sunshine in life rather than to dwell on the gloom and shadows. To be cheerful means to gladden, comfort, and raise the spirits of those with whom we associate. It means to be kind and courteous, gentle, gracious, sincere. Ours is a cheerful religion. The gospel teaches us to be happy and confident. 'The prophet Nephi emphasized this when he said: "men are that they might have joy" (2 Nephi 2:25). All gospel principles are aimed at bringing peace, confidence, and happiness into men's lives. To be cheerful is not always easy but it is a truism that as we think cheerful thoughts, we become cheerful. Someone has aptly said, "Those who bring sunshine into the lives of others cannot keep it from themselves." Solomon said, "A merry heart maketh a cheerful countenance" (Proverbs 15:13). Cheerfulness, then, is probably nature's most appealing cosmetic. It shines through from the soul like a wondrous light. Therefore, let us always remember the comforting counsel of the Lord when he advises us to "be of good cheer... For I am in your midst, and I have not forsaken you" (D & C 61:36).