LITERATURE e America's Literature The New Birth of Freedom Lesson 35 — The Alcott Family Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes Dryden Press, New York) For Third Meeting, Objective: To accept the Alcott home, real and fictional, as a memorable example of the unity which kindness and love can create. FEW children's books have ever received or deserved the popular reception given to Louisa May Alcott's Little Women from _ its publication in 1868 until almost our own day. Before her death twenty years later, at the early age of fifty-six, Louisa saw hundreds of thousands of copies of Little Women printed, which made her a fortune, paying her far more than the other two hundred and fifty works She published during her lifetime. From her girlhood, Louisa had determined to succeed at writing. This she accomplished, thus earning the financial security so entirely absent from the home in which She was reared. Poverty, and sometimes actual want, characterized herearly life. All during her constant struggles to lighten the financial burdens in her home by tending and teaching children, doing sewing, and hiring out as a housemaid, she was constantly writing on one story or novel after another, until she developed a style of her own and achieved a considerable literary skill. But technical skill alone could never have produced books so many children have loved so intensely. The memories of her childhood years in a home environ- * ment of imaginative freedom, kindness, and mutual love give to her pages the strength and joy which make Little Women charming and 702 ll wt ee ne, A Perry Picture LOUISA MAY ALCOTT real. Before we can fully appreciate that the people of this novel are portrayals of the parents and _sisters who dominated her life, we must first let them come alive in their own right. Amos Bronson Alcott (1799-1888 ) Bronson was born in the pioneer community of Wolcott, in western Connecticut about twenty-five miles north of New Haven. During the summers of his later teens he borrowed money from his frugal father, shipped to various southern ports, then went on extensive walking tours, carrying baubles and jewelry and knickknacks in two metal trunks which were strapped over his shoulders, one in front, one behind. The isolated southern folk welcomed him with enthusiasm, often allowing him to stay in their large mansions as long as he chose. On his most memorable peddling trip, he found himself among Quakers. T'lieir simple lives and intense religious idealism shaped his own thinking profoundly. Long before he met Emerson and the Concord 'Transcendentalists: he was the purest of idealists; indeed he was unique even in his own day, not merely because he was an idealist, but because throughout his life he was nothing else. The Teacher Alcott He returned from his peddling as heavily in debt to his father as when he left, but now determined to bring others the light and ecstasy which he had found by becoming a teacher. After reading his own definition of his calling, it is not — surprising that he devoted his life to teaching with a zeal so intense that his innovations caused him to be misunderstood, ridiculed, and so forced to close his schools. His words soar with fervor: If there be any employment which, among the inhabitants of our earth, claims a precedence, that of instructing the young in the duties and pursuits of time and eternity seems to hold itself conspicuously to notice. And this de servedly. No other employment in which men can be engaged is more intimately connected with the welfare of human beings.... It is the employment of God. The supreme principle by which he hoped to guide his life-long LESSON DEPARTMENT ~~ A Perry Picture Lovisa May Alcott's Home, "The Orchard House," Concord, Massachusetts career as a teacher was his own "General Maxim" that one should "teach in imitation of the Saviour." For him, teaching was never merely instructing, but the rising to a lofty spiritual level where, for a moment, the teacher lent his mind to his students. Each day they were given five minutes during which time they were encouraged to discuss their intellectual and spiritual progress or retrogression during the past twenty-four hours. To our modern young mothers it may well seem strange that Alcott used the following method of discipline in his home; when a child merited punishment, he was denied the privilege of being allowed to tend the baby or help mother clean up the kitchen dishes. The supreme punishment was not for the child to be deprived of his supper, but for him to eat while glumly watching the empty place of his father, who, by abstaining, brought the erring child to contrition. In 1827 he met Miss Abigail May, daughter of Colonel Joseph May, one of Boston's first citizens. She was twenty-seven, he twenty-eight. He was overwhelmed to find a 704 woman of breeding and culture who enjoyed listening to his elaborate plans and theories and she, in turn, was impressed with his idealism and his sweet spirit. When they were married two years later and_ received a wedding gift of three thousand dollars from her father, Bronson calculated that if he sold all the copies of his current book and spent the entire sum in payment of his debts, he would still owe $3,400.00. In 1843-44 he organized Fruitlands, an idealistic attempt to solve the problems of society and education by rural communal living. Founded in June, it lasted until January, when starvation for his children forced him to abandon his dream. 'Though friends took his family in, during the next few months he well nigh died of a broken heart, but the love and patience of his wife restored him. From 1879 until his death nine years later (just two days before the death of his daughter Louisa), he was Dean of the Concord School of Philosophy which gathered during the summer months to hear him and others talk, but this was after Louisa's success had solved all his financial problems, which he had _ never acknowledged anyway. Mother "Abba," Strength in Love With every reason to scorn her husband's_ extended conversations with the great, his endless search for "minds," and his occupying himself with a daily journal which totaled more than fifty volumes containing over five million words, his wife "Abba" sold her personal possessions to buy food, and finally went to work in the slums of Boston as, perhaps, the first paid social worker in our country's history. The miracle that only love can perform became in their relationship and in their home a common, everyday fact. From the day she first met him until her death, she preserved and protected their love high above quarrels and her dreamer husband's failure "to provide." In 1856 she recorded in her diary, "This is the twenty-fourth time of moving. We have been married twenty-six years." And again, "Mr. Alcott cannot bring himself to work for gain; but we have not yet learned to live without money or means."" While she appreciated his "quiet reliance on Divine Providence" she believed "a little more activity and industry would place us beyond most of these disagreeable dependencies on friends. They have to labor. Why should not he?" But in her journal how often she expressed her love and happiness! For example: May 29, 1842 Three weeks today since Mr. Alcott sailed. I am trying to get accustomed to the thought that I can do without him. I think I can as easily learn to live without breath. Most central is Abigail's definition of love, which reveals not only how much of her skill with words Louisa inherited from her mother, but how everyone in this home felt its radiance and reflected it back to its source. Abba wrote,... When I speak of love, I do not mean that flippant little God to whom the votaries of fashion address their prayers, whose wings they sometimes borrow and flutter through the bowers of LOUISA MAY ALCOTT ideal roses and lilies; not those more careless pursuers who kneel: at every shrine, and lay their hearts on none. No, — I mean that clear though deep current of affection which, stealing silently, unobserved, into all the recesses of the heart, issues thence only in the pure, healthy rills of kindness, tenderness, good will, devotion. 'This is what I feel for the only being whom I have ever loved as companionable, or with whom I could associate in the heavenly tie of matrimony. Alcott, Successful Father With such a wife, to fail would be difficult, indeed. And while he was well aware that the gold in which he dealt bought nothing in the Concord market, he too filled the home with his gentleness and kindness. It is not by chance that Little Women is filled with references to Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress; all the children knew it almost by heart, so often did their father read to them from its pages. He loved his children enough to teach them constantly, design _ their clothes, and tend them when ill and often to prepare their meals. He played with them on the floor or in the barn and went walking with them in the woods. He loved beauty and love so strongly that he desired most of all to give these priceless values to his daughters, as shown in the following excerpt: My children, I will show you what is beautiful, beautiful indeed: It is a pure and happy, a kind and loving family, a home where peace and gentle quiet abide... Around whose hearth gather serene and loveful countenances, where every hand is quick to help, every foot swift to save, every eye agile to catch the wishes and every ear the wants of others; where every day is a long and well-gotten lesson of love and wisdom and _ patient resignation and steady trust in that Good 705 and Generous Power that sends Health and Hope and Peace. How well he succeeded is best proved in Little Women, justly loved for its vigorous yet tender picture of the ideal New England home of the nineteenth century. Louisa's Education Born on November 29, 1832, in Germantown, Pennsylvania, where Bronson was then teaching, Louisa was reared in the idealistic, intellectual atmosphere which radiated from her father. In addition, she learned many lessons from sources other than those she might have known had she ever received a formal education beyond the grades. Perhaps her battle with practical need and the heavy routine tasks she undertook "to help out" in her family might best be summarized by some of her own words, I can't do much with my hands so I will make a battering ram of my head and make a way through this rough-andtumble world. Life is my college. May I graduate well, and earn some honors. I wrote it [An Old-Fashioned Girl] with left hand in a sling, one foot up, head aching, and no voice. Yet, as the book is funny, people will say, "Did you enjoy doing it?"... I certainly earn my living by the sweat of my brow. So every day is a battle, and I'm so tired I don't want to live; only it's cowardly to die until you have done something. Twenty years ago I resolved to make the family independent if I could. At forty this is done: debts all paid, even 706 outlawed ones, and we have enough to be comfortable. Much as she loved and honored her father, Louisa found it difficult to be the daughter of a philosopher. When she was at Fruitlands, aged eleven, she arose at five on a September morning to have her bath. "T love cold water," she wrote, "the rubdown with coarse linen towels. At seven the family sat about the table to eat the meal father had prepared: water, unleavened bread, apples and potatoes." Since Louisa was reared a vegetarian, relatives who came visiting brought their own chunks of meat. Though "Abba" sewed and took in boarders, the Alcotts were always accepting gifts, Louisa wearing her first new dress when she was twentyfour. Beholden, constantly moving, with strangers living in their family circle — no wonder she wrote in her journal, "I wish we could just be a real family, like everyone else." Yet she knew many people and many happy moments. She wrote and produced plays with Emerson's children, and he was her firm friend, writing of her, "She is a natural source of stories.... She is and is to be, the poet of children. She knows their angels." 'Thoreau often took her boating, along with neighboring children, and in the middle of the stream would raise the oars and play his flute, then suddenly in grave tones begin stories about Indian lore of the area. The Young Writer Driven by her strong desires to help her family and to succeed as a writer, throughout her teenage years Louisa faithfully kept a jour nal, wrote down the stories which she loved to tell to children, and wrote and produced plays in collaboration with her sisters. It was while she was teaching school in Boston and hating it, that she made the following entry in her journal: My first story printed, and $5 paid for it. It was written in Concord when I was sixteen, cat rubbish. Read it aloud to my sisters, and when they praised it, not knowing the author, I proudly announced my name. In 1854, when she was twentytwo, her first book "Flower Fables," written for Emerson's little daughter Ellen, appeared. This was a collection of tales for children for which she received $32. It was not long until she was earning more from her writings than from her various employments, which enabled her to make increasingly sizeable contributions to the sparse family income. When Moods appeared in 1864 (four years before Little Women), she wrote in her mother's Christmas copy. My five years of labor, love, disappointment, hope and purpose are a useful experience that I shall not forget. Now if it makes a little money and opens the way for more I shall be satisfied, and you in some measure repaid for all the sympathy, help, and love that have done so much for me in these hard years. I hope success will sweeten me and make me what I long to become more than a great writer — a good daughter. And so God bless you, dear mother, and send us all a Happy New Year. Hospital Sketches Louisa May Alcott gave generously not only of her money, but also her personal service to relatives, friends and strangers alike, and OUISA MAY ALCOTT From the beginning of the Civil ar, that great humanitarian reormer Dorothea Lynde Dix had erved as supervisor of volunteer urses, but she was given no real ower until July 1862, when the ent out a call: Only women of strong health, not subects of chronic disease, nor liable to suden illness need apply. The duties of he station make large and continued deands on strength. Louisa, age thirty, was strong and illing. On December 14, 1862, he reported for hospital duty in ashington, D. C. Accustomed to resh air and a vegetarian diet, ouisa fled from the bad hospital ir whenever she could, and soon ad to force herself to the mess hall here she had to eat daily "beef idently put down for the men 76; pork just in from the street." fter less than a month's service he became so ill that she could ot leave her room; soon she was sent home to recover from a serious attack of typhoid. She lost all her Beautiful hair, a yard and a half long, and almost her life before she recovered months later, though she as never really well again. As soon as she felt capable of the ttempt, she began writing of her xperiences. In August 1863, ospital Sketches appeared and was her first real success. And typically 4 used her first $40 royalty to pay r her grandmother's funeral. Her ecount of the war conditions ranks ith Walt Whitman's Specimen ays as a trustworthy, moving acunt of the suffering and heroism 707 which were prevalent. In contrast to many other observers, Louisa was neither excessively sentimental nor grim; her words have the ring of truth and restraint. She writes of John, the giant bachelor blacksmith from Virginia who must be told he must die, as he sat, '... Lonely and forsaken just then, with bent head, hands folded on his knee,... But a great tear rolled down and dropped upon the floor. It was a new sight there; for, though I had seen many suffer, some swore, some groaned, most endured silently, but none wept. Yet it did not seem weak, only very touching, and_ straightway my fear vanished, my heart opened wide and took him in as, gathering the bent head in my arms, as freely as if he had been a little child, I said, "Let me help you bear it, John." Little Women and Other Writings After Hopsital Sketches Louisa continued writing "pot boilers," which brought in money but nothing else. Often she belittled her efforts, longing to write another Wuthering Heights. The time was ripe for her own masterpiece, which she worked on fourteen hours a day until she sent off the first twelve chapters to a publisher. He found it dull, as did she, but with her usual pluck she kept polishing and revising it until she caught that rare aura and feeling of actual people in real circumstances which gives the book its strong appeal. Every girl who reads the book identifies herself with one of the sisters, and knows the others as well as her own family — indeed they are her family until the book closes and the spell is broken. In addition to Hospital Sketches (1863), Moods (1864), and Little Women (1868), the following are among her most 708 familiar writings: An Old-Fashioned Girl (1870), Little Men (1871), Work (1873), Eight Cousins (1874) Rose in Bloom (1876), Jack and Jill (1880), and Jo's Boys 1886). Louisa's "angel" was her _ gift to speak to the hearts and imaginations of children of all ages; her family's gift to her was a home scene unique in its goodness and love. She blended her writing skills with the supreme values of her life — family unity, love and joy — into America's ciassic contribution to children's literature. But in thus giving to posterity her contemporary domestic scene, she gives liberally of herself and her family as well, gifts always to be esteemed by those who would know and love the enduring qualities of their fellow mortals. Thoughts for Discussion 1. To what extent was mother Abigail responsible for the unity of the Alcott family? 2. What ideals do you find incorporated in Louisa's own life? In her writings? 3. How did the Civil War aid Louisa in attaining the maturity as a_ writer which she needed?