Child Feeding By Jean Cox, State Supervisor of Home Economics Education "Mute and still, by day and night, labor goes on in the workshops of life. Here an animal grows, there a plant. The wonder of the work is not less in the smallest being than in the largest." The appeal of a health-happy baby is irresistible. Every intelligent mother is ambitious to have her child in perfect physical condition. Within the past two decades much careful study has been given to this important part of the child's life as mothers, peditricians and welfare workers have been very anxious to decrease the death rate of this age. In order to accomplish this, great care has been given to the weaning period which is normally between nine and twelve mouths. The problem of gradual change from mother's milk to modified or whole milk is an interesting one. This adaptation usually stretches over two or three months and should be carried on so carefully that the child will not lose normal gain or become ill. Every variation in the child's diet should be looked upon as an intelligent experiment and the results should not be confused by attempting more than one slight variation at one time. When a new food is introduced give only a teaspoonful or two the first time and thus gradually build up tolerance for the new addition to the diet. We must think of the body as a working machine where the energy obtained through the combustion of food carries on the work required in the body. The circulation alone within the body would lift a child many times the height of a high building. Energy is also required for respiration which constantly demands energy through the combustion of food. Muscular and nervous tension also require energy, as do the chemical changes of converting one kind of food into another in the numerous metabolic processes within the body. The building up and tearing down of cellular and bony tissues also demand heat and energy which must be supplied by food. Because of the constant utilization of energy it is very important that this demand be met by an adequate food supply. It is generally conceded that meeting energy requirements is the first fundamental principle in nutrition. A child who is subjected to too much excitement and activity uses up food for energy at the expense of growth. Hard crying in children uses up proportionately as much energy as a man pitching hay. This may be shown by the following figures: A man at sedentary occupation uses 2,700 calories a day, while a man at severe muscular 190 exercises uses 4,080 calories per day. The following average of total energy requirments for young children shows the gradual increase in food requirements: Age in Years Total Calories 1-2 900 - 1200 2-5 1200 - 1500 One of the biggest problems in building up the dietary for baby is ease of digestion. As each child is an individual problem and digestion a daily one, great care should be exercised in controlling factors which contribute to ease of digestion. Irritability, fretfulness, delayed growth, bad breath and restless sleep, may all be attributed to some extent to lack of harmony in the digestive tract. The intelligent mother who is working with her nurse or doctor on the problem has the opportunity to absorb considerable information on cause and effect of certain foods and combinations. It has become customary during recent years to make some extra addition to the child's diet of the bottle-fed baby between the time it is two to six months old. With the nursing baby this addition is usually not made quite so early. The first addition is usually a half or teaspoonful of orange juice which is gradually increased to two tablespoonsfull, and this usually is diluted with a little water and fed between the regular morning feedings. Frequently a baby six months old is able to take the juice of one-half orange. While fresh sun-ripened tomato juice is valuable from the standpoint of vitamines, iron, and laxative qualities, some doctors object to its use because of the acid it contains. It is used in about the same proportion as orange juice. The canned tomatoes are less valuable than the fresh. In order to maintain the iron content of the body it is becoming common practice to feed babies a teaspoonful or more of spinach pulp mashed through a fine sieve which is usually diluted with the milk. Some doctors recommend the use of beef juice as a source of iron for the baby in the second year, but the high flavor of beef juices is disadvantageous. One teaspoon of egg yolk is sometimes used. The following table is interesting for comparison of the proportionate amount of iron in foods: Food Calories Grams of Iron 1 t. Of egg yolk 20 calories 0.000460 2 t. Spinach 5 calories 0.000750 2 tb. Beef juice 5 calories 0.001880 2 tb. Orange juice 12 calories.000035 Both spinach and orange juice are accorded special value because of the vitamins they contain. Spinach is rated high because of the comparatively large amount of vitamin B. Dr. CHILD FEEDING 191 Mary Schwartz Rose says that, next to milk, spinach is the most valuable food for children. Dr. McCollum gives additional value to the use of spinach because it also contains some of vitamin D which according to some recent experiments is necessary for bone development. Another food which is usually considered a medicine is cod liver oil. This has been used for many decades "for weak and sickly children." It has come into prominence in the light of recent experimental studies in bone development. These studies by McCollum and others show that one teaspoonful of cod liver oil has as much of vitamin D which is considered necessary for bone growth as one pound of butter. Cod liver oil is usually given twice a week, in ten drop doses, after a baby is six months old. Many mothers look upon cod liver oil as a very nauseous food but the taste is not usually objectionable after the first two or three doses. Mothers report that children really learn to like it. In this as in other good foods, objection is encouraged and stimulated by too much talk about it. As previously stated, a food easy of digestion for young children is milk and this is the most important food for good bones. Usually the child's diet is based on a quart of milk a day, although some peditricians recommend only a pint of milk. Studies made on the amount. Of calcium necessary for growth which have been made by Dr. Sherman and others indicate that a quart of milk is a safer allowance. The question of getting the child to enjoy this amount is sometimes rather serious. The milk should be of uniform quality, and proper care should be given to the milk after it reaches the kitchen. The portions should not be too large, attractive cups should be used and last but not least the child should be expected to enjoy it. Some children object to the odor of milk, and will often enjoy drinking milk through a straw when they refuse it otherwise. Usually if the two to three-year-old child eats alone there will be less objection to the bland foods suitable for him than if he eats with the family. Children are born imitators and like to eat and drink what others do. In a large percentage of cases when children refuse to drink milk, it is because ore or both of their parents or older children do not like milk and express their objections. Some of the quart of milk should be combined with other foods so that milk drinking will not be burdensome. The following foods may contain some of the required amount of milk: bread, cream soups and vegetables, simple puddings and custards (not too sweet), cereals will carry considerable milk as milk may be substituted for part or all of the water in making cooked cereals. Children should be taught to chew. Studies in children's hospitals and experience of peditricians indicate that children are very apt to bolt foods and that frequently children six to eight years old have not learned proper mastication. Good mastication is necessary for good digestion and both are important factors for a healthy digestive tract. The superior value of sweibach or toast over bread for young children is not so much in the change of starch to dextrin by heat as it is the change of texture which demands careful mastication. The piece of toast or crust given the baby in its second year is a valuable means for teaching mastication to even the young child. Toast, sweiback or crackers are about the only opportunity the young child has of learning this important digestive function. Bolting of food at beginning of meal is a very bad habit. After the first few mouthfuls the flavor of the food is decreased because lack of mastication does not stimulate the flow of the salivary glands which tends to bring out food flavors. It is well to think of digestion as being largely a matter of surface; finely divided particles of food well mixed with the saliva are softened or made into solution which are thus acted upon more quickly by the digestive juices of the stomach. Carefully masticated foods also stimulate flow of gastric juices in the stomach which tend to accelerate the digestive processes. Where two-year-old children become so hungry that it is almost impossible to keep them from bolting at the regular meal time, some' mothers give milk and cracker in the mid morning and a bit of sweibach and milk in the mid afternoon. As a rule it is not considered good practice to run the risk of putting undigested food in the stomach not entirely empty as this is apt to cause fermentation. The cereals highest in favor for children at this age are listed below: Steel cut oatmeal is the cereal par excellence for children, it should be cooked two to three hours. Wheat preparations are staples in child feeding and will cook in less time than oats. Barley flour and meal are also considered valuable for the child in the second year. Barley needs to be cooked well. Cornmeal is less valuable than the others, and should be cooked six to eight hours. Rice lacks ash constituents and is not specially good for the growing child except as a carrier of milk and eggs. When the child is fifteen to eighteen months old other vegetables than spinach, mild in flavor and high in ash content, may be CHILD FEEDING 193 used. Those usually taken with little trouble are asparagus tips, green peas, carrots and squash. These are usually rubbed through a fine sieve and are usually better taken diluted with a little milk. The average amount of food for a child fifteen to eighteen months old in terms of calories is: Milk?1 quart 675 calories Crisp bacon?1 strip 20 calories Egg yolk 50 to 62 calories Y% to | oz. Cereal 50 to 100 calories (%4 to % c. Cooked) Bread 100 to 200 calories (about 4 slices or almost 3 oz.) 2 tb. Green vegetables 5 calories Fruit juice (orange 2 oz.) 30 calories (4 tablespoons full) Total 1087 Authorities differ as to the number of meals for the baby in the second year. The tendency is toward fewer feedings than formerly. The following schedule has been found satisfactory: Breakfast 7 o'clock?Cereal, milk, toast, perhaps fruit juice. (Opinion is divided as to whether or not crisp bacon should be used). Dinner 11 o'clock?Two kinds of vegetables, milk, bread?potatoes not more than twice a week. Egg yolks twice.- week. Lunch 3 o clock?Milk and crackers. Supper 7 o'clock?Milk toast or cereal, fruit juice. Because the after-taste of milk is not good, it is safe practice to give a drink of water after the meal or a taste of mild fruit juice. This will help to avert dislike for this most important food. At the end of the two years rather large amounts of the foods already listed are given, and occasionally another piand food is introduced into the diet as an intelligent experiment in order to see if the child tolerates it. Opinions differ as to whether or not meat should be added to the diet other than possibly a little crisp bacon. The argument against it is that one quart of milk and egg yolk several times a week furnishes the. Required amount of protein. Additional argument is furnished in the belief that the higher flavor of meat creates a dislike for milk. Dr. Watson says, even "rats won't take milk if you offer bacon." Beef juice is considered in the light of a tonic valuable for iron content, while broths are valuable as carriers of cereals or vegetables and give variety to diet. Contrary to popular belief children of this age should not eat much potato. A small baked potato is permissible occasionally, although some of the best peditricians do not encourage the use of potato at all for young children. Better results in maintaining a healthy intestinal tract will ensue if only occasional small portions of potatoes are used and foods already listed are 194 relied upon to bring up the calorie content of the day's food to 1,100 calories. The mother anxious for further information on calories may read almost any of the food texts used in high schools, Mrs. Rose's Feeding the Family, and government bulletins. While less emphasis is placed on calories than formerly, the mother responsible for feeding young children should be able to figure in terms of 100 calorie portions in order that she may be somewhat sure of the intake of the child and be able to understand the doctor's formulas. Toward the end of the second year and during the third, the child can gradually have some complexity of dishes. These are milk soups, simple desserts, custards and junkets, plain cereal puddings, simple puddings of cornstarch, sego, tapioca and rice. All desserts should be kept mild in flavor and only about half the usual amount of sugar should be used. Dried fruits cooked without sugar may be used as valuable additions as they are high in fuel value and also high in ash. Some green leaf vegetables should be used daily in order to supply vitamines and ash. Easily digested root vegetables in form of puree may be used. Not much of any meat need be used. The general principle in feeding children during the second and third year is to gradually work toward more solid foods, develop taste for a somewhat wider variety of bland flavored foods and establish good digestion. In order to succeed in the latter, meal time for the child must be pleasurable, foods must not be eaten too rapidly and only foods suitable for the age or meal should be given. It is a sane and safe rule not to give food to a child of this age unless you feel that it is good for him. It is not good hygienically to cause distress in the intestinal tract. Persistent distention or irritation is apt to cause intestinal trouble later in life. During the four to five-year period the same simple foods should be used with only a few additions. The main sources of energy and growth should be obtained from foods listed above with possibly a small portion of meat once a day. In addition to orange juice other fruits may be used once a day. Maintenance of good food habits and healthy digestion is very important. This will be more easily accomplished if the child does not always eat with the family. Candy and ice cream should not be allowed between meals, and very little should be allowed at the end of the meals. The healthy child is not the constipated one. Careful selection of food as well as regular habits will tend to establish regularity. The foods most used for this are orange juice, tomato juice, if it can be borne, prune juice or prune pulp, pear or peach juice,. CHILD FEEDING 195 carrots, peas, squash, cornmeal, oatmeal and barley. Spinach is also very valuable for constipation. Mrs. Rose suggests the use of mineral oils for constipation. It is very important that meal times should remain regular. Even slight deviations interfere with appetite and digestion. While all this detail seems burdensome to the mother with several little ones, the importance of it all will not be discredited if the objective is not mere meal preparation, but strong minds in strong bodies for the citizens of tomorrow.