[Vol10 | October 1923 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Current Topics | Title: Educational Items]

Educational Items
Few educational leaders have been as much in the limelight during the past few weeks as has President Ray Lyman Wilbur, of Stanford University. People generally were loud in praise of his finished addresses at the National Education Association, for he is an orator of the first order. The effect of his addresses had not died away when news came that he had been elected president of the American Medical Association; also, he was one of the first doctors appealed to for consultation during the illness of the late President Warren G. Harding.
HARVARD'S VISION
A good many people who have had the privilege of visiting the Washington Elm, the old tree under which George Washington took command of the American armies, will feel sorry to learn that the tree is dead. Many school children have visited it in the past and there are many people in the United States who were looking forward to the opportunity of seeing the tree in the future. Much as we regret the fact that the tree is no longer living, we deeply rejoice that somebody connected with Harvard University had the vision, some forty years ago, to take a slip from its branches, plant it and care for it, so that it is now flourishing on the Harvard campus.

CHARLES W. ELLIOT RECEIVES MEDAL OF HONOR FROM CIVIC FORUM
The medal of the Civic Forum has been awarded in the past to Goethals, Edison, Bell and Hoover. These gentlemen belong to the scientists' group, consequently the teaching fraternity extends hearty congratulations to President Emeritus Charles W. Eliot, who is the first of its group to capture the medal.
Mrs. Dorothy Melissa Riggs Stewart, who was the first teacher in Provo, hired by a board of trustees, died July 12, 1923, at her home in Provo City.
From Dr. David Starr Jordan's address on "The University and Moral Teaching" delivered at the N. E. A. San Francisco, we select the following very significant paragraph. "The university has about four roads open to turn its youth to righteousness," said Dr. Jordan. "These roads are: the contagion of personality, the inspiration of intellect, the arousing of enthusiasm for intensive work, and the devotion to helpfulness towards others. As for the first, to turn our youth towards righteousness, we must show them how righteousness looks when it is lived; as to the second, a great teacher always leaves a great mark on every student with whom he comes into real contact; as to the third, great investigators breed investigators?there is an intellectual heredity among scholars as well as a physical one, as every serious worker recognizes. "The university can exert a tremendous influence for moral life, but only through the unflinching devotion of its members, and this influence must be exerted spontaneously, even unconsciously, by men alien to all forms of vulgarity and vice, and in thorough sympathy with the best in mind or morals in the idealism of youth."
Camilla Clara Mieth Cobb First Kindergarten Teacher in Utah Reinhard Maeser
"We look back upon the past and draw from it our heroes and our idols. And it is right that we should do so, insofar as these heroes and idols are worthy of our esteem and gratitude." Utah's educational history could not be accurately written unless there appeared upon its pages the name of Camilla C. Cobb, she who was our first Kindergarten teacher in this state. She came of parents whose lives were devoted to the education of
youth, her father being the presiding official of the leading school in the city of Dresden, Saxony, Germany. It was in this school that Dr. Karl G. Maeser taught, and it was the eldest daughter of this principal whom he married. Camilla early inclined toward the profession of teaching, and though only twelve years of age when she left Germany, she had already learned many of the ways and methods employed in the early training of the child. Her innate love for children and humanity is what made her the successful teacher that she was. It was in 1877, in a little room adjoining the chapel of President Brigham Young, situated just back of the Eagle Gate, that Mrs. Cobb began her work as Kindergarten teacher in Utah. She had taken lessons from an eminent teacher in New Jersey, some time before, and it was while studying in New Jersey that she was one day visited by Mr. John W. Young, who was so impressed with her superior ability in this work, that he at once suggested to her the need of her services in Utah. Upon her return to the territory, about a year later, she was at once employed to teach the children of Mr. Young, but he later generously opened the school for the admission of others. A letter, dated February of this year, and written by one of the boys, now a prominent Utahn, who attended her school, says: "To my mind, you have done more for the uplift of the child than any other woman I know; first, because you introduced real Kindergarten work into the state; second, you were associated at the head of the largest child organization in the Church?the Primary association; but these are not alone the reasons why I say you have done more than others; but because of your interest in every child whom you called by name." Camilla Clara Mieth Cobb was born in Dresden, Saxony, Germany, May 24, 1843. She was baptized in 1855, left Germany for America in 1856, with the Maeser family, arrived in Utah, September, 1860. She married James T. Cobb, and is the mother of six children, only three of whom are living. She lives at 208 Canyon Road, Salt Lake City. One would hardly suspect from her appearance, her lively, cheery manner that she had passed the eightieth mile-stone on life's journey. The letter already quoted from, further says: "You are one of the youngest ladies in the land. Your voice over the phone sounds like the voice of a girl of eighteen. Lift up your head and rejoice because of your great work, for thousands will bless your name forever.