[Vol53 | October 1966 | Page 722 | General Feature | From Near | and Far]
[From Near and Far]

I have been receiving the wonderful Relief Society Magazine and its messages of love and inspiration make me feel closer to the Church. I loan my Magazine to those who are interested, and they are thrilled with the messages from its pages. Louise A. Bell Diatagon, Surigao Del Sur Mindanao, Philippine Islands 722 Sister Taylor's ''Three Women" (May 1966, by Celestia J. Taylor) was a choice article, and I thought of my dear, sweet grandmothers, and my mother, dear soul. I liked ''Look for the Small Clues'' (by Kaye T. Roberts) and ''Much of Worth—The Relief Society Magazine"' (by Mabel L. Anderson). The story ''The Old Stove" (by Lael J. Littke) brought back true and fond memories. Next, I noted the record of our dear Glendale Stake—so high on the Magazine Honor Roll. Today, the May issue was written only for me. Ofa Winward Schimmer Glendale, California Today there came to my home a sweet messenger—tThe Relief Society Magazine in Spanish. It thrilled me to hold it in my hands, as I had been hoping for a long time to be able to read it when I saw it in English, and now it is possible for all the Spanishspeaking women to enjoy the benefits of such a_ beautiful Magazine. For many years I belonged to the Rosario Centro Branch Relief Society in Argentina, and now being able to read the Magazine here in Salt Lake City, it seems to me that I am closer to them, because we now have something in common to unite us—The Relief Society Magazine in Spanish. Claudina E. H. Guzman Salt Lake City, Utah I always enjoy the Magazine, especially the stories by Lael J. Littke. I am sure her story ''The Old Stove'' (May 1966) brought back much nostalgia to many who read it. To me it brought tears, and I hope to many who know Lael— the dozens who have been in their kitchen by the old stove. It is not an easy thing to leave those mountains and creeks and apple trees—even if you didn't have Old Hirschvogel! A special thanks from one uprooted Mink Creeker to another for this special story. Brucia Crane Hazelton, Idaho
