[Vol53 | October 1966 | Page 738 | General Feature | Woman's Sphere | Ramona W. Cannon]
AS (: Vv Vomans Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Gina Bachauer, a native of Greece now residing in London, is one of the world's most brilliant women pianists. After playing with the Utah Symphony in March 1965, she suggested to the officials of the Athens Festival, which sponsors the finest talent in the arts during the summer months, that they invite the Utah Symphony to play in Greece. Thus was set in motion the planning for. The symphony's European tour in September. To: the public's delight, Miss Bachauer played with the orchestra in Athens, Salonika, and London. Nationally famed children's dance director, won high praise from world-famous choreographer and: dancer José Limon, who said: "There isn't anywhere in the world—and I! Include New York, London, Paris, and Moscow—that has anyone who can touch her genius for teaching children the exciting purity in the dancing arts. And I know."' A Latter-day Saint, Miss Tanner (in private life Mrs. Robert. B.. Bennett) has attributed to her husband, fifteen-yearold daughter, and six-year-old son, the inspiration in her creative work. Virginia Tanner, Sarah Hunt, nineteen, of Springfield, Ohio, who has been blind since she was three years old, plays the piano, recorder, guitar, autoharp, and dulcimer. She attends Wittenberg University and works in one of the dining halls, sorting silver. In July, she went as an alto with the widely publicized seventy-five voice Wittenberg choir on a round-the-world tour. 738 Elizabeth Borton de Trevino received the Newberry Medal for children's literature for 1965 for her book "'l, Juan de Pareja." Dr. Muriel Hughes, a general practitioner from Colwyn Bay, North Wales, and Dr. Catherine Williams, a nose, ear, and throat specialist from Abergele, North Wales, were among the doctors who attended the Tenth Congress of the Medical Women's _ International Federation at Rochester, New York, in June. One purpose was to encourage more young women to study medicine in order to relieve the world shortage of doctors. Mrs. Asmar Salakhova, of Armenia, thought to be the oldest women alive, is believed to have been born in 1812, the year Napoleon invaded Russia. Miss Helen Gossett, a veteran social worker with the New York's United Hospital Fund, spoke at a meeting of the American Nursing Home Association in Washington in July. Having visited many of the average nursing homes in the United States, she says that the lot of many of the elderly, 'isolated and infirm," is 'apathy, despair, and a longing for death."' She blames this situation largely on the 'youth-oriented' American public, which expects people simply to withdraw from life at age sixty-five. (We cannot but contrast this attitude with the philosophy of the Church, which encourages mental and physical activity as long as possible, and also a self-sustaining program for workers as long as possible.)