[Vol53 | October 1966 | Page 794 | General Feature | Cultural Refinement — Humility Yields Strength Robert | K. Thomas]
CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Elder Robert K. Thomas Lesson 3 — Humility Yields Strength "Humility like darkness reveals the heavenly lights."' Henry David Thoreau Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, January 1967 Southern Hemisphere: May 1967 Objective: As she is teachable, a woman is able to help others become receptive to the inner strengths of meekness and gentility. @ We live in an age in which the majority of Christians still subscribe to the Christian virtue, humility, yet who among us has ever seen a plea for a humble young man or woman in "Help Wanted" advertisements? We can't quite explain this away by insisting that business is a world apart; for our general teachings to children, both at home and at school, are consistent in their support of standing up for rights, being at the top of the class, and winning in sports. We seldom think positively about humility. If we consider it at all, it is usually as a counter to pride. Almost invariably it carries connotations of weakness. The writers who illuminate the concept of humility in this month's lesson share the conviction that it is an attitude rather than a state and that it can be a dynamic, positive force in our lives if we understand it. The short poems which open our consideration of humility reflect markedly different views. Emily Dickinson's short lines stress the independence yet unifying effect of humility. Whittier's "First Day Thoughts" points out the self-discipline that conscious humility brings, and 794 Bunyan's "The Shepherd Boy's Song" emphasizes the dynamic contentment of the humble. In "The Guests of Mrs. Timms," humility is saved from identification with timidity and uncertainty, and in "Mother," we find the difference between service and servility clearly illustrated. John Woolman concludes the section with a record of his personal experience which shows that control is basic to meekness that can result in_ spiritual growth. In humility so presented we truly see the heavenly lights. For as we read it begins to become evident that humility is more than the absence of vanity. It exists as an unassuming—but immensely positive and powerful —source of strength. It is not given by default but must be achieved in effort as rewarding as it is quiet. (From introduction to Section III of text, paragraphs 2 and 3.) LINES FROM EMILY DICKINSON How happy is the little stone That rambles in the road alone, And doesn't care about careers, And exigencies never fears; Whose coat of elemental brown A passing Universe put on; And independent as the sun, Associates or glows alone, Fulfilling absolute decree In casual simplicity. Despite the casual tone of these lines, the explicit glories of humility are revealed with precision that repays the closest analysis. The choice of words is especially exciting. Note '"rambles" in the second line, for instance. Miss Dickinson apparently feels that it is too easy to equate having goals and direction with a positive approach to life. As the next line suggests, some "careers"? May not be positive. Further suggestion that freedom from the dictates of vanity can be appealing is given in the suggestion that we should not put on our own outer covering in slavish adherence to fashion but should let nature clothe us with that which is essential and appropriate. To reduce one's life to essentials is not to take the easy path, for such reduction requires discriminating choice, and when one has arrived at the truly important, it is a comfort to tind that the truth unites all people who are anxiously seeking it. FIRST DAY THOUGHTS In calm and cool and silence, once again I find my among My brethren, where, perchance, no human tongue Shall utter words; hymn is sung, Nor deep-toned organ blown, nor censer swung, Nor dim light falling through the pictured pane. There, syllabled by silence, let me hear The still small voice which reached the prophet's ear; Read in my heart a still diviner law old accustomed place where never LESSON DEPARTMENT Than Israel's leader on his_ tables saw! There let me strive with each besetting sin, Recall my wandering fancies, and restrain The sore disquiet of a restless brain; And, as the path of duty is made plain, May grace be given that I may walk therein, Not like the hireling, for his selfish gain, With backward glances and reluctant tread, Making a merit of his coward dread, But, cheerful, in the light around me thrown, ee as one to pleasant service ed; Doing God's will as if it were my own, Yet trusting not in mine, but in His strength alone! Few groups have sought more earnestly to become receptive to the still, small voice of conscience than the Society of Friends or Quakers of which Whittier was a member. "First Day Thoughts" is typical of Quaker effort to submit to the will of God as that will is made manifest in the heart. THE SHEPHERD BOY'S SONG This little poem occurs in the second part of Pilgrim's Progress in which Christian's wife and children undertake to follow their husband and father. Under the guidance of Mr. Greatheart, the pilgrims reach the Valley of Humiliation. Here they come upon a coarsely clad shepherd boy and listen to his artless song. THE SHEPHERD BOY'S SONG He that is down need fear no fall, He that is low, no pride; He that is humble, ever shall Have God to be his guide, I am content with what I have, Little be it, or much; - And, Lord, contentment still I crave, Because thou savest such. 


 Fulness to such, a burden is, That go on pilgrimage; Here little, and hereafter bliss, Is best from age to age. —John Bunyan (1628-1688) The theme of these lines is contentment, which gives earthly peace of mind yet prepares us to accept heaven's bounty. The contentment which Bunyan emphasizes is not resignation. It is awareness that we must prepare ourselves for the truly good by ridding ourselves of the false. Whittier's self-discipline enables him to give both personal and general meaning to his. Religious worship. Bunyan would divest himself of obvious world cares. Whittier must forego the religious devices which seem to be a part of worship, but which actually get in the way of a simple, responsible relationship with God. In both cases there is a yielding of one's own will to the will of God, but in neither case is the surrender one of weakness. It takes all the strength we can muster to achieve the receptive attitude that is a critical characteristic of humility. THE GUESTS OF MRS. TIMMS This story by Sarah Orne Jewett gives us both positive and negative views of humility. The two main characters, Mrs. Flagg and Miss Pickett, demonstrate that humility is neither uncertainty nor timidity. In fact, the counterfeit meekness they display is frighteningly close to vanity. It hardly matters that Miss Pickett is really rather sensitive; she may see her problem more clearly than the obtuse Mrs. Flagg, but she really does very little about it. One cannot be truly humble by being sensi- 796 tive only to oneself. Only Nancy Fell, who is hardly more than an afterthought for the visitors, exemplifies the humility which can reach out to others without affectation. In her own lack of ostentation, she can make others feel wanted and special. Since she is not preoccupied with herself, she can listen to others tell of their experiences. How revealing of Miss Fell's real compassion for her visitors is Miss Pickett's comment concerning how '"'desirous" she was to have them recount to her the details of a recent church conference. Someone as humble as Nancy Fell might not need to pretend interest. Quite possibly she was capable of getting enjoyment out of the simplest account. Henry David Thoreau once insisted that wealth was not a matter of accumulation but of reducing your wants so they could be satisfied. It is almost a shock to realize that Nancy Fell had so prepared herself that she could actually enjoy a visit from Mrs. Flagg and Miss Pickett! Class Discussion Do we feel any sympathy with Mrs. Flagg or Miss Pickett? Will their experience in this story change them? What meaning does it have to you? MOTHER This excerpt from the novel by Kathleen Norris contrasts not only the impatience of youth with the serenity of age, but, more significantly, lets us participate as a vain young girl starts to become a humble, mature woman. Few stories show the "sladness" of humility more effectively. Professor Penison's comment that he has finally discovered what Margaret's mother "sets out" of unending effort and sacrifice, is revealing: 'There's something magnificent in a woman like your mother, who, instead of one destiny, starts eight! Responsibility—that's what people are afraid of! But it seems to me there's no responsibility like that of decreeing that young lives simply shall not be." These lines catch the distinctive quality of Mrs. Paget's humility. It is a humility born of willing service, anxious love. Mrs. Paget is not a doormat, and she is not stupid. She has chosen her role gladly and _ realistically. Providing for a family of ten on a limited income means _ that some of the so-called amenities of life must go. But her attitude is not a resigned one. She is not simply "putting up" with circumstance; she is adapting to it both skillfully and happily. True humility is not achieved by resentful acceptance. Remember the tactful but pointed comment of Alma (Alma 32) to the poor who had been denied entry to places of worship in The Book of Mormon. It is not our condition but our attitude that is crucial. Class Discussion At what point does service become servility? In 'Mother,' what really helps Margaret most in her re-understanding of her family? FROM THE JOURNAL OF JOHN WOOLMAN John Woolman's' Journal shares with Pilgrim's Progress the praise which is always due the simple account which never turns into the superficial. Woolman's humility is that of deliberately narrowed choice. His happiness is that which accompanies being in control of circumstances rather than being controlled by LESSON DEPARTMENT circumstance. Nothing is more impressive in Woolman's writing than his willingness to face the consequences of his choices. He doesn't pretend that making his wants few is necessarily easy; it is only "through the mercies of the Almighty" that he learns to be content with little. But once having learned this lesson, he can make his deliberate poverty rewarding. This modest Quaker was persuaded to publish his journal in the hope that it might inspire others to do good works. It is appropriate to conclude this lesson with the words of a man who so successfully avoided the ultimate test of humility—being proud of one's lack of pride. As someone has put it flippantly but truly, the hardest part of being humble is not to wear your humility pin! Woolman's Journal is saved from preachment, which is fatally easy to discount or ignore, by its focus on one man's experience. One can evaluate experience but not argue it. Woolman's final, tactful advice to those who are engaged in business and might be corrupted by it, is to remember not his own advice but that of the prophet Jeremiah. Few writers have been able to combine the forthright and the humble with the enduring success manifest in John Woolman's Journal. Class Discussion To what extent do you agree with Woolman that "every degree of luxury hath some connection with evil'? Note the context in which this is put, and his careful qualifications in the statement itself. 797 MOTHER-OF-PEARL Susan Diane Clement My mother means a loving smile Upon life's stormy sea; A gentle hand, a knowing heart, All these, and more, to me. She laughs with me and shares my joys, Shares all my sorrows, too; She gives me strength, and when I fall, She starts me out anew. She has borne her heavy load Long and valiantly— Without her life's companion, She has been father and mother to me. O Lord, wilt thou watch over her And give her strength the while Until the day she's called away, My mother and her smile.

I'll gently lead thee by the hand; I'll bless and comfort thee. The sorrow and the tears that flow; The trouble, and the loss Are part of life's refining fire To sift thee from the dross. The fire will but humble thee, And help thee see more clear The heavy load thy brother bears; His heartache, and his fear. In loving service thou shalt find New vistas, rich and rare; A recompense, a joy so sweet, And glory of heaven there.
