[Vol53 | October 1966 | Page 736 | General Feature | Editorial: "With Their Concentrated Efforts" | Marianne C. Sharp]
[Editorial: "With Their Concentrated Efforts" Marianne C. Sharp]

EDITORIAL 

 @ Belle S. Spafford, President @ Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor @ Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor @ Hulda P. Young, Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Cleone R. Eccles Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtie R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West A century and a quarter of obscuring mists blur the recognition of the kindly deeds of the women during the early days of the restored gospel. One only learns of an incident here and there. In 1842, however, came the gift of the Lord to his beloved daughters through the Prophet Joseph Smith—the divine establishment of Relief Society — the organization through which the needy, the poor, the sick, the downhearted, the discouraged, were to be looked after in the years ahead. The Prophet himself wrote, following the first meeting of the Female Relief Society of Nauvoo: Our women have always been signalized for their acts of benevolence and kindness; but the cruel usage that they received has hitherto prevented their extending the hand of charity in a conspicuous manner; yet in the midst of their persecution, when the bread has been torn from their helpless offspring by their cruel oppressors, they have always been ready to open their doors to the weary traveler, to divide their scant pittance with the hungry, and from their robbed and impoverished wardrobes, to divide with the more needy and destitute; and now that they are living upon a more genial soil,. And possess facilities that they have not heretofore enjoyed, we feel convinced that with their concentrated efforts, the condition of the suffering poor, of the stranger and the fatherless will be ameliorated (DHC lV:567-568). concentrated efforts The sufferings were ameliorated and, as the Prophet said, through 'their concentrated efforts.'' Hitherto a neighbor's want was cared for as her condition became known, hereafter efforts were concentrated and directed. Systematic visiting discovered needs and brought help and relief. The kindly and soul-sustaining deeds of the women of Mormondom since that time glow brightly through the mists of the past in steady, warming colors as preserved in the sacred records of Relief Society. Studying minute books, the relief and care of the poor are found recorded. One can even follow an individual woman's record and observe her deeds of mercy, her generosity in her contributions of service, of food, and, later, in a monetary way, down the years. As differing conditions have arisen in the Church, Relief Society, as directed by the Priesthood of God, has gladly accepted new assignments. No longer do visiting teachers collect money for the charity fund, as the Church Priesthood Welfare Program became strong, but Relief Society continues to sew for the naked and preserve food for the hungry. In 1942, on the one hundredth anniversary of Relief Society, The First Presidency wrote to Relief Society: ''No other woman's organization in all the earth has had such a birth. This divinely inspired origin brings with it a corresponding responsibility, in consecration to service, and in the loftiest loyalty to the Priesthood of God and to one another."' Today, throughout the world where the Church is organized, over 287,000 faithful, devoted members accept the responsibility in consecration to service and in the loftiest loyalty to the Priesthood of God. In the directed program today of Correlation, Relief Society is training every member to be. A better wife, a better homemaker, a more cultured woman, and to encourage the holding of Family Home Evenings. No basic work of Relief Society, as divinely established, has ever been taken away but, with changing times and through inspired Priesthood direc- 'tion, Relief Society members of the Church are called to fill the current need and to move forward as one in every accomplishment. While individual goodness and service underlie the work, it is only through the organization of the women in the divinely inspired Relief Society that the needs of all are ameliorated. —M. C. S.