[Vol53 | October 1966 | Page 786 | General Feature | Homemaking — Wise Spending Brings Happy Ending Celestia | J. Taylor]
HOMEMAKING — Development Through Homemaking Education Celestia J. Taylor Wise Spending Brings Happy Ending Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, January 1967 Southern Hemisphere: June 1967 Objective: To show how a budget sets up guidelines which INTRODUCTION The scriptures tell us_ that "love of money is the root of all evil." Without denying the validity of this statement, it should also be said that careful and wise manipulation and disposition of money can and does work for the good of mankind. There is a continuing reason why a family should practice thrift and wise spending. This reason ls valid whether the family is one just beginning or one'in any of the later stages of develop-. Ment up to and through retirement. This reason has its origin deeply rooted in the irrefutable law that one cannot spend indis-. Criminately his money, his talent,. His energy, or whatever he may possess without diminishing his supply and, eventually, depleting it. Every family has certain goals and objectives which are vital to its well-being. Their attainment 786 help solve financial problems. Involves careful financial planning and management, best accomplished through the establishment and use of a budget — a personalized system of money management which will help the family to achieve its own goals and objectives. FORMULATING A PLAN OF EXPENDITURES Family money management by means of a well-planned budget develops in each family member an understanding of his or her responsibility by showing what it costs to live and the need for making the right choices. It does not mean rigidly following some plan worked out by an expert and involving complicated bookkeeping. A family should design its own budget and shape it to serve the needs, interests, and desires of its members. In making any budget, four procedures are useful to most families: (1) Estimating family income; (2) Calculating fixed expenses; (3) Planning daily expenditures, including incidentals; (4) Planning savings and emergency funds. ESTIMATING FAMILY INCOME An appraisal of the family income will include 'take-home pay" from wages, regular salary, commissions, part-time earnings, as well as monies from pensions, rental income, dividends, interest, or any additional income which might be forthcoming. Discusss: Why is it wise to plan on the basis of the average minimum rather than the average maximum income? CALCULATING FIXED EXPENDITURES Every family has certain expenses which must be paid at certain times throughout the year — monthly, quarterly, semiannually, or annually. These expenses should be listed under the month in which they fall due. If they cannot be paid out of one pay check, the total should be divided into periodic payments and a reserve fund started. The list of fixed expenditures should include the following: (1) Tithing and Church contributions. (2) Taxes. These include federal, state, and city income taxes; personal property taxes, and any others that might apply. (3) Rent and fixed housing expenses. This might include mortgage payments or others that apply. (4) Debts. These include amounts due on_ household equipment, bank loans, or any other financial obligations. (5) Insurance. This includes life insurance, health and accident policies, liability insurance, fire insurance, and any other policies the family may carry. PLANNING DAILY EXPENDITURES Day-to-day living costs offer daily opportunities to practice LESSON DEPARTMENT wise spending. The principal items that are usually included in daily expenses are the following: (1) Food. This includes all expenditures for meals eaten at home or meals eaten out, as well as all food accessories such as beverages, snacks. (2) Household services. These should include supplies, repairs, operation, facilities, laundry, and cleaning, etc. (3) Clothing. This includes all wearing apparel, materials, and upkeep. (4) Automobile and_ transportation costs. These include gasoline and oil, repairs and maintenance, and any public transportation costs. (5) Medical care. This category covers the services of physicians and dentists, medical supplies, and all such expenses not covered by insurance. (6) Personal allowances. This is one of the important parts of the family spending plan, for it gives each member a feeling of independence and interest in cooperating with the plan. (7) Family development and recreation. This includes creative and artistic development (music lessons or development of other skills), vacation, equipment for sports and other leisure activities. (8) Variables. Differing localities, climates, and other variables would add to or take from this list. Discuss: John and Mary spend everything they earn and save nothing. Discuss how a budget plan can remedy this situation. PLANNING SAVINGS AND EMERGENCY FUNDS Every family should make some provision for saving in their financial plan. Regular saving helps a family to achieve a sense of security. When possible, it should be large enough to cover both emergency funds and longterm goals such as_ education, missions, retirement, vacations, and other desired attainments. Savings are the result of careful planning and, usually, the renouncing of some present desires. 787 A SIMPLE MONTHLY TIMATED MONTH SNCOME FIXED EXPENDITURES BEFORE I TAKE I TITHING I TAXES I RENT I DEBTSIINSURANCE DEDUC- I HOME AND TIONS I PAY FIXED EXPENSES JANUARY FEBRUARY March through December are recorded the same as the above two month In the beginning a daily record should be kept and the totals recorded in the above form. (A loose-leaf note-book will serve the purpose.) Most banks and insurance companies provide free budget forms for the asking. Discuss: 1. Sam and Ruth put away so much that they feel deprived and frustrated in their everyday living. Why is this unwise? 2. There are times when financial demands are so heavy that the entire income is not sufficient to cover regular living expenses so that saving seems neither practical nor feasible. Discuss possible solutions. MAKING THE SPENDING PLAN BALANCE Wise planning and conscientious effort on the part of all members of the family are required to formulate and carry out a suc- 788 cessful budget plan, but once it is accomplished it will bring the income, expenditures, and savings of the family into a balance and will result in blessings of lasting benefit and fulfillment to all its members. WHEN MAKING YOUR BUDGET, KEEP IN MIND THE FOLLOWING 1. The family should make its own plan to fit its own particular situation. 2. The plan should be made simple and practical. 3. The plan should be realistic— neither overly ambitious nor ultra conservative. 4. The plan should be carefully and conscientiously followed. S—January and February we AMILY BUDGET PLAN DAILY EXPENDITURES SAVINGS EMERGENCIES FOOD HOUSEHOLD SERVICES CLOTHING CAR AND TRANSPORTATION MEDICAL CARE PERSONAL ALLOWANCES VARIABLES RECREATION AND OTHER ES a