[Vol53 | October 1966 | Page 743 | Fiction | The Complex Kathryn | E. Franks]
[The Complex Kathryn E. Franks]

It was built to house your grandfather's horse and carriage. You call that a garage?" '"'Well it does a good job housing my station wagon and your father's sedan." "And a list of things too long for mentioning," Dad _ added, coming to Beth's defense. The other things he had in mind were bikes, sleds, toboggans, Steve's derby car. '""Maybe so," chimed in Steve, "but it is pretty out-dated." Even as a child, Beth had loved her grandparents' home here on the outskirts of town. She had played in the haymow, helped her grandfather hoe the garden, and during the hot summer days, she and her grandmother had picked fruit from the orchard. Soon after her grandparents were gone she and Tom were married. Rather than sell the property, they decided to move into it and make it into a big, comfortable home. True, they had soon made some up-to-date changes, but mostly they liked the house best with its early-day charm. While Tom served the plates, Beth looked through the kitchen window with a happy, contented expression. "You know," she said, "I sort of like the looks of the old barn back there next to the orchard. That big maple spreads its shade over the roof in the summer and shades most that part of the yard. My friend, who is an artist, called it 'picturesque.' " "Mother," Sara moaned, 'you just don't understand."' "Yes," answered Beth seriously, "I do understand. We were 744 happy and comfortable in this spacious old house with its big orchards and gardens. Now these subdivisions are going up with their well-designed homes, and suddenly you notice the difference. I admit there is a contrast, but that hardly gives us reason to pull up and move. Anyway, those new homes are expensive, and probably cramped for room." "Maybe so," admitted Sara, "but I've seen two girls and one boy my age moving into the finished houses on old Hill Road. They'll be our neighbors. They'll go to our school. Now Steve and I will be known as the boy and girl from that old house on the corner... With the barn!" So the complex grew through the spring into the first of June. Several of the homes were finished now and landscaped. More families were moving in, with new cars, too. Beth had to admit she began to feel the contrast. Each time she got such notions she went to the garden and picked string beans or went to the orchard and picked peaches from the trees. Feeling contented again, she thought about the new families with pint-size yards and only one broom closet to a house. Beth was at the front window hanging freshly washed curtains at the open window the day one of the new girls bicycled up the street close to the fence where Sara, in her flowered cotton dress, trimmed the withered roses from Beth's favorite rosebushes. The pretty brown-haired girl circled twice on her bike, hoping, Beth felt sure, that Sara would look up and speak. Sara, still smoldering in her complex, did not stop her snipping. Sara must have decided, Beth thought, that the girl looked lonesome because she took pity and spoke to her. In a second the new girl was off her bike and beside the fence. Soon they were chatting in that friendly fourteen-year-old tone. Before Beth had the curtains hung, Sara came toward the house, bringing the girl around to the back. As they walked by the windows she could hear their conversation. There are so many things, Beth thought, that she'll want to learn from Sara, about the school, the neighborhood. The girls were at the back of the house now, beside the back steps. "What an_ interesting house," the girl remarked, looking as if she were taking notes on the house and the old bam. "I bet you've had some good slumber parties up in that hayloft. Have you?" "No," answered Sara, without enthusiasm. "I had only part of the empty loft cleared away for the playhouse. The neighborhood girls used it sometimes, but I've never had a party or slept up there."' Sara wanted to change the subject, but the girl's eyes stayed on the barn, gathering ideas. "Your house is so big, I bet you have a room all to yourself." THE COMPLEX Her eyes had left the barn and now she covered the big, twostory house. "Yes, there are four bedrooms upstairs, and one guest room down," Sara informed her. "You're lucky. We have only three bedrooms in our house. My brother has a room, but my sister and I have to share a room. I better get going," the new girl said, turning. "It is time for my piano lesson. See you." I "Why didn't you ask her in?" Beth asked Sara when she came inside for a cold drink. "I suppose I should have," Sara said, "she seemed anxious to get acquainted. Her name is Pat. But I don't want her going all over the new neighborhood advertising about our house, inside and out." Now here we go again, Beth thought to herself, as she went back to the curtains. Steve came in at lunchtime and announced that he had met one of the new boys. "Dick's a nice kid, Mom. He'd play, but he has to stay around home and help plant shrubs and water the new lawn. His place is going to be real pretty, though. Sure makes our place look awful countryish."' "Oh," cried Beth as she struck her finger with the hammer she was using to drive a nail through the curtain rod. "I wish," she groaned to herself, "that Id never seen a bulldozer go by this house on its way to clear those lots." In a matter of days word got around about the house and barn but not the way that Sara imagined. The girls had started to come around the house now in twos 


 and threes. There appeared to be five now, including Sara, who had formed a clique. "It has a real hayloft," she heard one of the girls explain as they brought each new girl around to look. Enthusiastically, the girls hurried inside the barn and climbed the old ladder with such suggestions as: "Oh, this is neat. Why don't we clean it up and bring our record player up here?" Or, "Maybe my mother will let me "This is more fun than anything," exclaimed Bea, the smal] blonde girl, as she came into the kitchen with Sara to help carry to the barn. Beth had been so busy just keeping ice cubes in the refrigerator and snacks ready for the hungry girls that she had trouble remembering the girls' names. "Tf you'll help me," Beth heard Sara say a few days later, "I']] ask mother if we can clear away the south side of the barn that was used as the stable and make it into a Stage." The girls nearly burst with joy over the idea. "We can have our own little theater," they shouted. Possibilities By the end Stage progressed as the boys hammered away on a tree house. "Boy," You can't even play catch in their back yards." "There's room here," Beth said. "If you overflow the tree house you always have the orchard." THE first time Beth visited Bea's mother she felt uneasy the minute into the house. The inside was so freshly Painted and beautifully carpeted that Beth felt afraid she'd touch lawns. Beth mentioned it to Sara that evening while they washed dishes, "No wonder," Sara said, "that the girls like to come here." "Girls your age prefer comfort to luxury," Beth said, careful not to use that I-told-you-so tone. € next few days the heat drove the girls inside to the cooler rooms of the big house. Pat, sitting cross-legged on the floor confessed, "I'm Sure glad we moved here, Sara. I have always lived in an apartment. You don't know how much fun this is." "Too bad," Bea said, "that it wasn't your house for sale instead of all those new lots where we bought." "I think your homes are beautiful," Sara answered. Beth wondered from the tone of her voice if she hadn't really got over her complex. The sound of Sara's voice stil] bothered Beth as she went to the kitchen to prepare cold ham and potato salad for supper. She walked through the hot sunshine and brought in tomatoes from her garden. She moved a lemon pie to the back shelf of the refrigerator so the children would not see it until after dinner. Beth had dinner arranged attractively on her yellow and white checkered cloth, with a large bowl of shasta daisies and marigolds in the center when Tom came in from sprinkling the lawn. "You know," he said, as the family seated themselves at the table, "you children are right. These new homes are making our house look shabby and _ outdated. I'm going to talk to Mr. Rogers, the real estate broker tomorrow. I'll have him come out and give us an estimate on our property. We could get a smaller house over in the tract area by the lake. Be near the lake and the new high school." Sara and Steve's protests went THE COMPLEX up like white flags. "No, Dad,' Steve insisted quickly. "We're over our complex. We like it here." Sara couldn't speak right away because tears had suddenly filled her eyes. She managed enough voice to say, "I wouldn't want to move, Daddy. Not ever. We'll stay here,' she suggested, ''and Steve and I will save our allowances and buy some paint, maybe some more roses for around the front fence." "I could help paint," Steve offered, with all the confidence of a man. "Come on, agree, or mother will start doctoring you for what is it she called it, a complex." Beth smiled back, and suddenly confident that the "complex" was a thing of the past, she started passing the food.