[Vol33 | October 1946 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Article | Title: Optional Lessons in Lieu Lyon]
Optional lessons in 2b sou of a literature, The Gospel as a Way of Life Lesson 4
Repentance Elder T. Edgar Lyon For Tuesday, January 21, 1947 REPENTANCE is listed as the second principle of the gospel of Jesus Christ, following logically the principle of faith. When one has acquired and developed an abiding faith in God and the saving power of Christ's atoning sacrifice, it is natural to seek release from the painful remembrance of one's former unrighteous conduct. The process by which this release from the consequences of sin is attained is the God-given principle of repentance. Sin is the violation of the pattern of living that is pleasing to God. Any departure from the course that God has given for the welfare of his children falls into the classification of sinful living. Many, however, are in great need of a repentance from wrong-believing and unChristian teachings. Until there is a repentance from these errors of doctrine, there can be no true acceptance of the atonement of Christ or the concept of a loving God and Father. To hold to erroneous beliefs would be offensive to God and *Latter-day Saints distinguish between a universal or unconditional salvation and a conditional or individual salvation, including exaltation. President John Taylor wrote: "He (Jesus) bore the weight of the sins of the whole world, not only of Adam, but of his posterity: and in doing that, opened the kingdom of heaven, not only to all behevers and all who obeyed the law of God, but to more than one-half of the human family who die before they come to years of maturity, as well as to the heathen, who, 

 ?OCTOBER 1946 LESSON DEPARTMENT, 709 having died without law, will through His mediation be resurrected without law, and be judged without law, and thus participate, according to their capacity, works, and worth, in the blessings of His atonement." (Taylor, Pres. John, Mediation and Atonement, pp. 148-149). We read in the Articles of Faith: "The individual effect of the atonement makes it possible for any and every soul to obtain absolution from the effect of personal sins, through the mediation of Christ; but such saving intercession is to be invoked by individual effort as manifested through faith, repentance, and continued works of righteousness....
Exaltation is given to those only who by righteous effort have won a claim to God's merciful liberality by which it is bestowed.... In the kingdom of God there are numerous degrees or gradations provided for those who are worthy of them; in the house of our Father there are many mansions, into which only those who are prepared are admitted." (Talmage, James E., Articles of Faith, pp. 89, 91).
Keep the one who believed in them estranged from the love and forgiveness that God desires to grant to those who seek him with repentant hearts and receptive minds. The process of repentance is a step-by-step change in life, voluntarily done on the part of the penitent wrongdoer. One theologian has named these steps, "Recognition, Remorse, Resolution and Retribution the Four R's of Repentance."
They represent a good summary of the process by which one seeks to change his life and become a worthy Christian.
Before one can commence the work of repenting, there is need to be aware of having sinned.
This brings the person to a condition in which he recognizes the nature of the sin that has been committed, and he becomes convinced that he did wrong.
This first step is often one of the most difficult in the entire repentance process. We are so prone to justify our own conduct, that we have difficulty in convincing ourselves that we are guilty of wrong-doing.
