[Vol2 | May 1915 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: A Loving Tribute to Sarah Ellen Richards Smith Julina L. Smi]
A Loving Tribute to Sarah Ellen Richards Smith. By Julina Lambson Smith. "Not dead but sleeping," and sweet is thy memory to me, Aunt Sarah, as are the recollections of our associations through the 48 years that we have journeyed together always sharing each other's joys, loves and sorrows. Mere girls, we were, when we started life together. I the mother of one little one, when two years after my marriage "Papa" brought you home his wife. Then came a call for "Papa" to move to Provo. Having the responsibility of my home and baby, you went with him, remaining there six months, during which time he traveled almost constantly in the ministry. How happy I was when you both returned! You making my home yours, until together we had prepared your home for you — separate apartments under the same roof. A few years together, Joseph, you and I, and then again our family was increased, the home made larger and Aunt Edna came, to make a triangle of happiness with our husband as the center controlling bond of love. My large dining-room was always the personal property and common gathering place of all. Even now I can hear the laughter of our children as they played about us before being kissed, and tucked in their beds. There, too, I can see the evening picture of three tired but happy mothers, often busy with kneeless stockings, seatless trousers or other articles of clothing needing buttons or stitches; or with, perhaps, something good to read or ideas to exchange. As often as possible our papa was with us but oftener we three were alone, for we were the wives of a soldier of the truth whose armor was always on. If those old walls could speak they would tell of some of the happiest hours of our lives. Eleven children called you mother. Eleven was my number, too. Four boys and seven girls for each. While to Aunt Edna was given ten — evenly divided. No wonder the recollections of the "Old Home" are associated with children's voices! No wonder the names of "Papa" and "Mama" instead of those more dignified are familiar to us! After twenty-six years under the same roof, though it had been enlarged from time to time, the "Old Home" became too small, so it was left to and mine, and new homes were erected for you and Aunt Edna. The family triangle was changed into a star, our babies grew to man and womanhood, our hair turned gray and still we were not separated until — to satisfy public
