Patriotic Department" can be illustrated with a suitable tableau, and the entertainment for a successful "home evening" can represent suggestions division. Let some good reader give the editorial and current events, and a group of workers could demonstrate the various lessons and activities. Close with an invitation to join the Society and subscribe for its Magazine.

A small orchestra would add to the success of the social, or the ward organist could "play" the various pictures, and be sure and include some rousing musical numbers and community songs. For a delightful out-of-doors frolic, a watermelon party is suggested. If the object is to make money, an admission fee of 25c may be charged. The invitation: "A monster melon am going to be opened at (place), on Sept. de at 8 o'clock. Come and eat all you can hold and enjoy yourself. Only twenty-five cents to get in."

A pleasant plan for the entertainment would be: Guests received and feasted with melon, games and athletic sports. Small green melons afford a funny race game where the fruit is pushed over the course with the toe of one's shoe. Award a ripe melon for prize. Conclude with a program of old Southern melodies or "darkey" songs, accompanied by mandolins and banjos.

A "peach" party might prove popular, and peaches and cream, peach pie and shortcake with ice cream, lemonade or grape, could be served and sold.

A very unique stake officers' party was recently held in one of the nearby stakes, where the program was so different, and the fun so genuine. The first half hour was spent in social converse, this was followed by a singing contest, participated in by the various bishoprics of the stake. Each group chose their own selection and the honor fell to a group who sang a funny nursery rhyme. Next a tug of war between presidencies of Seventies, and Elders quorums. A comical spelling bee followed between the members of the High Council and the ward clerks. Next a dancing contest, where the Young Men's Mutual officers paired off with the Relief Society Board, Patriarchs with Primary, Religion Class with Y. L. M. I. A.

This event, a prize step-dance, being won by a Patriarch of the old school. A suitcase race between the stake presidency and their wives caused much fun. Instrumental and vocal music was interspersed between the various "stunts," and the punch bowl was very heavily patronized. The social concluded with dancing.

HOME EVENING EXERCISE: Book of Mormon Alphabet.
A was a martyr for God and the truth.
B was a prophet-king, righteous from youth.
C was a Jaredite king left alone.
D was a land of which little is known.
E, while around him his people were killed, lived to see all his prophecies fulfilled.
F, of all the flowers that bloomed 'neath the sun but one is mentioned, find out which one.
G was a robber band wicked and vile.
H was a builder whose ships reached far isle.
I was an Ephraimite, from land far away.
J was so faithful, the waves did obey.
K was an anti-Christ seeking a sign.
L was an Israelite patriarch benign.
M gave a nickname to people of God.
N in a vision saw the "Iron Rod."
O righteous king with thirty-one offspring.
P was chief judge when the Nephites were warring.
Q was a queen converted by dream.
R was a hill where records were seen, his people all murdered.
S lost his head.
T mighty general the Lamanites dread.
U was a Bible king known by Isaiah.
Z mighty city burned up with fire.

A was a traitor hung by the hair.
B was a folly built high in the air.
C was a mountain overlooking the sea.
D was a nurse buried under a tree.
E was a first born, bad from his youth.
F was a ruler who trembled at truth.
G was an angel sent with good word.
H faithful mother, gave her son to the Lord.
I was a new name received at the ford.
J was a shepherd in Arabian land.
K was a place near a desert of sand.
L was a pauper begging his bread.
M was an idol, object of dread.
N was an architect ages ago.
O was a rampart to keep out the foe.
P was an isle, where a saint looked above.
Q was a Christian saluted in love.
R was obscure yet a mother of kings.
S was a Danite who did wondrous things.
T was a city that had a strong hold.
U was a country productive of gold.
V was a queen whom a king set aside.
W was a widow whose cruise was supplied.
Z was a place where a man wished to hide.

A: Abinadi, B: Benjamin, C: Coriantumr, D: Desolation, E: Ether, F: Flower (Lily), G: Gadianton, H: Hagoth, I: Ishmael, J: Jacob, K: Korihor, L: Lehi, M: Mormon, N: Nephi.

Orihah, P: Pahoran, Q: Queen of Lamoni, R: Ramah, S: Shiz, T: Teancum, U: Uzziah, V: Zarahemla.

A: Absalom, B: Babel, C: Carmel, D: Deborah, E: Esau, F: Felix, G: Gabriel, H: Hannah, I: Israel, J: Jethro, K: Kadesh-barnea, L: Lazarus, M: Moloch, N: Noah, O: Ophel.

P: Patmos, Q: Quartus, R: Ruth, S: Samson, T: Tyre, U: Uphaz, V: Vashti, W: Widow of Zarephath, X: Zoar.

Find the chapter and verse for each.

The Relief Society School for Nursing will open as usual in September. The course will consist of general instruction in nursing, and will include in addition practical demonstrations in nursing, and lectures on Invalid Cooking, First Aid, Sterilization, Drugs and Solutions, Contagious Diseases, Hydrotherapy, Public Health, Prevention and Treatment of Diseases. The lectures will be given by specialists.

Circulars containing information will be sent to Relief Society presidents. For further information address Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah.

By Janette A.

Hyde One home feature which should characterize our Latter-day Saint communities above all others, is the kitchen gardens, filled with the different varieties of vegetables necessary for the good health and well-being of the family. It would be impossible to make an accurate estimate of the money value of a well-kept vegetable garden. First to consider is the easy access to the garden supplies, second, the freshness of the vegetables, which means so much in flavor and cleanliness. Many vegetables sold on the market lose their sweet and delicious juices by having been gathered many hours before marketing. Just these facts should argue in favor of the home garden. By means of a kitchen garden the supply of family needs so far as vegetables are concerned is perfectly under family control, and is the only way directly fresh vegetables may be secured. Kitchen gardens are worthy of more definite attention by R.S. workers and a greater variety of vegetables should be included in the garden and at our dinner tables than the average farmer or housewife provides. In our hurry to live, we forget one of the fundamentals which I believe if adhered to would insure us fewer diseases, stronger bodies, and better health. Use more vegetables and a greater variety of them. Never cook less than 2 or 3 at a dinner; for potatoes are hardly a vegetable nowadays: they are counted as bread. Learn the secret of the proper way to cook and serve them, that no waste occurs, by way of water-soaked vegetables steeped in tepid water. Estimate the amount necessary to secure thorough cooking and not have from one pint to a quart of water to drain from the vegetables when thoroughly done and ready to serve. Dr. Riley says: "Our change in diet on account of the war will improve the American race. We were eating too much in volume and too rich in quality." I agree with him, provided we study foods as they should be studied, and then make the practical application in the home. Although vegetables differ in their food properties they are all valuable for their mineral salts, but unless care is taken in the preparation much of the food value will be lost. For example, steamed cabbage and spinach lose very little of their food value but, by boiling they loose 30% of total solids. Baking when possible is for most vegetables the very best method as it reduces the loss of salts and juices as well as retains the sweet flavor. To boil vegetables they should be put on in boiling hot water, with the exception of peas and beans which are less tough if started in cold water. As a rule vegetables are greatly overcooked losing much of their flavor in this way; they should be removed from the water immediately they are done.

Uncooked Vegetables:
Crisp vegetables with tender fiber are eaten raw. Their preparation includes freshening in cold water, thorough washing to remove grit and insects, thorough drying by shaking in a soft cloth or wire basket, and cooling on the ice. Lettuce should not be served so wet that the water collects on the plate, making it impossible to dress the salad with oil.

Cooked Vegetables:
Vegetable cooking is an art much neglected, and in consequence vegetables are sometimes served lacking their proper flavor and their original nutrients. To cook vegetables in boiling, salted water, throwing the water away, is not the correct method, except in a few cases. With this method much of the valuable mineral matter and the flavoring substances are lost in the water. With such strong-flavored vegetables as the cabbage, old onions and beets, and old potatoes, this method is permissible, but even in these cases the nutritive value is decreased.

Principles of Cooking:
Softening of the fiber.
Opening of the starch granules, when starch if present, at a temperature of 212 degrees Fahrenheit.
Retaining mineral and flavoring matters.

Cooking Processes:
These rank in value as they do or do not retain the mineral and flavoring matters. Baking: No nutritive material lost. The best method for potatoes and sweet potatoes. Used also for squash, pumpkin, beets, young onions, dried beans, peas, and lentils. Steaming: Cooking in a stew pan or kettle with so little water that it is almost boiled out at the end of the process, any remaining liquid being served with the vegetable. The best method for spinach, which can be cooked with no additional water, beyond that remaining on the leaves from the washing. The French use this method almost entirely, and in serving tender peas and carrots they omit water and use butter only. A substitute for this latter is a very small amount of water, with the addition of a butterine or some good butter substitute.

Boiling: Cooking in a large amount of boiling, salted water, the water to be drained off and thrown away. May be used with old beets of rank flavor, strong onions, old potatoes, or potatoes boiled with the skins on.
Adjuncts: Salt, pepper, butter, or some other fat, milk, cheese, bread crumbs, parsley, eggs.

Time of Cooking:
The following table is a guide, but one must learn from practice, for the time depends upon the quality of the vegetable, whether tender or tough, and upon the size whether large or small. Test by gently inserting a fork. Allow more time for cooking in a steamer than for stewing or boiling. It requires more time to bake a potato than to boil one of the same size.

TIME TABLE (For Stewing and Boiling unless stated otherwise.)
Fifteen minutes: Tender cabbage and sweet corn. These are usually cooked too long.
Thirty minutes: Asparagus, peas, potatoes, onions, young parsnips, medium potatoes baked, sweet potatoes boiled.
One hour: String and shelled beans; cauliflower; oyster plant; winter squash, steamed or baked; young turnips.
Two hours: Old carrots, beets, and turnips.
Six to eight hours (or more): Dried beans, lentils, and peas, baked in oven, with water added.

The potato, a starchy vegetable: Make it your pride to serve a plain potato, mealy and inviting. Potatoes are "new," fully ripe, and old. The new potato is in market in July and August, and may be recognized by its very thin skin. The later potatoes have a thicker skin, the color still being fresh.

Much of the talk concerning the need of economy in the household comes from people of extravagant ideas and expenditures. We note here the advice given by the Secretary of the Navy to the people of the United States. The Paymaster General of the Navy advises the women of the country to cease their extravagance and remarks that meals with six vegetables and three meats served is unnecessary and wasteful. While a prominent woman's journal recommends that the regular four-course dinner shall be shortened to three courses.

All this sounds ridiculous to the people of this Church who are practically all simple livers and whose dinner never has more than one meat and two vegetables with a simple dessert of fruit or pudding, except at holiday times. Yet even we will be physically better for taking the Government's advice in two respects at least: 1st, in the matter of eating less, and 2nd, in the eating of too much bread. Nearly everybody over-eats and all Americans eat too much bread. Bread is the "staff of life," that is true, but careless housewives make it the whole sum and substance of most meals in one form or another. Mush and milk for breakfast, bread and butter and potatoes, which are closely allied to bread, for dinner, with bread and butter and pie for supper made also from flour. Rarely indeed are two vegetables cooked for dinner even in the country places where vegetables should be very plentiful and cheap. Supper is usually bread and milk with perhaps a little stewed fruit. Bread has been pronounced by recent scientific discoveries to be too rich in blood-forming material for the average adult's constant use except in limited quantities. Children and very old people may subsist and thrive on a moderate diet of bread and milk, but adults should restrict their bread eating.

First, let nothing be taken on the plate that is not eaten. See to it that neither adult nor child shall leave a spoonful of good food on the plate or a crumb of bread. It is wasteful and just now almost criminal to feed animals or chickens on bits of white bread or rich gravies or potatoes scraped from children's plates. We will all enjoy our food better if we have a little less on our plates than a little more than would satisfy our appetites. What is left by a child should be placed before him at his next meal. Do not over-eat. Most people get fat or get disease because they pour into their stomachs three times the amount of food which nature requires. No matter how good the food nor how well balanced it may be in calories, if one ounce more than is needful be eaten that ounce of waste is a detriment to ourselves and a loss to the country's supply. Leave no scrapings in mixing bowls or pans. Much food is wasted in this manner. A small cake and a slice or two of bread is left in the form of dough by the careless housewife in her mixing bowls and bread pans. Sauce pans are half scraped out. A little clean water put to soak in a kettle which has had mush or rice left to stick upon it makes that bit of oatmeal or rice available for puddings or the next pot of mush. Even vegetables need not be wasted by the thick parings and discarded outer leaves which are often thrown away.

In the country this is all right as cows and pigs use them, but in the city, save all possible of the vegetables. Therefore, what can we do, you and I, who live so simply and have practiced economy all our lives, that will still help our country and ease our conscience? HOME ECONOMICS DEPARTMENT.
 

1. We can have a few more meatless days that is obligatory on most of us.
2. We can substitute corn meal, rye, rice and oatmeal at least two days a week for ourselves and families.
3. We can save every scrap of good food and use it for our own human needs rather than throwing it in the garbage pails.
4. We can practice the doctrine of the clean plate.
5. We can preserve and take care of every bit of food stuff that we now possess against a time of greater need which is coming.
6. We can cease drinking milk as adults and give the milk to the children or sell it to the creamery.
7. We can mend our old clothing and wear it as long as it is respectable.
8. We can go back to the old-fashioned industries of soap-making and rag-weaving.
9. We can wear mended shoes and keep the children's shoes well greased against wear and cold weather.
10. We can keep cheerful and realize that these are the last days, that the judgments will effect the House of Israel quite as much as it will the nations of the earth for a time at least.

"Women don't need to stint themselves or their families. There is enough food for us all in this country but we are at war. We don't need three kinds of meat and six vegetables for dinner. We will be just as well off if we have one kind of meat and two vegetables and no more of them than is going to be eaten. Everybody should have enough to eat, no one should have anything to waste."

Paymaster-General of the Navy.

Mrs. Mabel Young Sanborn

2 cups hot water.
2 cups brown sugar.
1 teaspoonful cinnamon.
4 tablespoonfuls shortening.
1/2 teaspoonful cloves.

Boil these ingredients for five minutes; let cool and add 3 cups of barley or wheat flour, 1 cup of raisins and 1 teaspoonful soda. Put into a well-greased pan and bake for three-quarters of an hour in a medium oven.

Portland, Ore.
Relief Society Clarissa Smith Williams

We copy the circular letter sent out from the Washington headquarters concerning the Nurse Reserve work, feeling sure that our active and devoted sisters, where possible, will take up with this offer. We already have a number of our graduate nurses, both from our Relief Society Nurse School, who have taken further hospital work, and from the L.D.S. Hospital course, in the various cantonments and some of them have gone to France. Utah's quota of this number called for by the Government is 200, who should have two years' training before entering the Nurse Reserve. All women may enroll in the Civilian Nurse Department, but no married women will be accepted in the Military Nurse Department. In other words, there are two departments of the Nurse Reserve, the Civilian and the Military Departments.

Further particulars will be furnished by the Committee on Public Health and Nursing of the General Board of Relief Society.

The Government is calling 25,000 young women to join the United States Student Nurse Reserve and hold themselves in readiness to train for service as nurses. The war is creating an unprecedented demand for trained nurses. Only those who have taken the full training course are eligible for service with our forces overseas. These nurses are being drawn largely from our hospitals at home. Their places must be filled by student nurses enrolled for the full training course of from two to three years.

Every young woman who enrolls in the United States Student Nurse Reserve is releasing a nurse for service at the front and swelling the home army which we must rely on to act as our second line of hospital defense. Upon the health of the American people will depend the spirit of their fighting forces.

Patriotic Department. Age. The call is for women between the ages of nineteen and thirty-five. Qualifications. Intelligent, responsible women of good education and sound health are wanted—the pick of the country. A college education is a valuable asset, and many hospitals will give credit for it. Credit will also be given for special scientific equipment or for preliminary training in nursing, such as that given in special courses now being conducted by various colleges and schools. Some schools, on the other hand, do not even require a full high-school education.

Enrollment. Women will be given an opportunity to enroll in the United States Student Nurse Reserve in any one of three ways: (1) As engaging to hold themselves in readiness until April 1, 1919, to accept assignments to nurses' training schools. These women will be sent to the schools as fast as vacancies occur. Those of superior qualifications will be given preference, and it is, of course, possible that not everyone who enrolls will be accepted. (2) As desiring to become candidates for the Army Nursing School recently established by authority of the War Department, with branch schools in selected military hospitals. (3) As engaging to hold themselves in readiness until April 1, 1919, to accept assignments to either a civilian training school or the Army Nursing School. Those who so enroll will be called where the first need arises.

The Government hopes that a majority of those who enroll will thus put down their names for both.

THE NURSES' TRAINING SCHOOL. There are 1,579 nurses' training schools in this country. Their need is as great and imperative as that of the Army School of Nursing. Those who enroll for these schools will be assigned as vacancies occur. The enrollment card will indicate two classes of registrants—Preferred and Deferred. The Preferred class will be those who are ready to accept assignment to whatever hospital the Government directs them, although they may state what training school they prefer to be sent to. Those who register in the Preferred class will be assigned first, and all possible consideration will be given to their preference as stated.

The Deferred class is composed of those who limit their pledge of service—that is, who will not engage to go except to certain hospitals. This class is intended largely for those who, for family reasons, cannot accept training at a distance from their homes. Those who register in the Deferred class will be assigned only after the Preferred class is exhausted.

The Government relies on the patriotism of those who enroll to fill out Preferred cards if they possibly can, thus volunteering to go where they are most needed. Nobody will be assigned to any schools whose conditions of training are not approved by the State Board of Nurse Examiners.

Terms of Training. The term of training varies from two to three years, according to the requirements of the particular school to which the student nurse may be sent. No course takes less than two years nor more than three.

What the Training Course Prepares For. At present every woman who completes satisfactorily her training in any accredited school is eligible for service as an Army nurse at the front and stands a chance of being assigned to duty abroad. At the same time she will be qualified to earn her living in one of the noblest professions open to women. It should be remembered, furthermore, that her usefulness will begin not when she graduates from the training school, but as soon as she enters it. Practical nursing work is a part of the work of every training school, and the student nurse is not only learning to serve but serving her country from the outset.

Finances. The student nurse gets her board, lodging, and tuition free at practically every training school, and in most cases receives a small remuneration to cover the cost of books and uniforms. After graduation she has an earning capacity of from $100 to $300 a month. Private-duty nurses now receive an average of from $100 to $120 a month together with board while on duty; institution nurses from $50 to $250 a month together with board, lodging, and laundry; and public-health nurses from $100 to $250 a month without maintenance. There is no danger of the earning capacity of nurses being lowered after the war ends on account of the great number who will then be qualified for the profession; the country will need all the nurses that can be trained, not only during the war but after it, especially for reconstruction work. Even if the war ends within three years, every student nurse will be able to complete her training and will be needed.

An Honorable Service. Ever since the days of Florence Nightingale the nursing profession has been one of especial honor. It was never so honorable as it is today. The Army needs every nurse it can get to "keep up with the draft." The United States Student Nurse Reserve is the equivalent for women of the great National Army training camps for soldiers. The Government will rely upon the student nurses to fight disease at home, to care for those injured and disabled in our hazardous war industries, and to make themselves ready to serve when the time comes as fully trained nurses, either abroad or at home.

Let us show that we know how to answer the Government's call to the women of the country. Enroll at the nearest recruiting station established by the Woman's Committee of the Council of National Defense.

Issued by the Woman's Committee, Council of National Defense, Washington, D.C.

UNCLE SAM'S COMMANDMENTS. President Wilson has signed a bill which takes its place in history as the most liberal legislation in protection of a nation's fighters ever known. It is good enough, strong enough to be called the National Ten Commandments, and is, in effect thus: Thou shalt not evict, for non-payment of rent, a soldier's dependents, under penalty of $10,000 fine. Thou shalt not cut off a soldier's life insurance because of delayed premiums. Thou shalt not foreclose a mortgage on a soldier's property. Thou shalt not take away a soldier's home on which he has made part payment. Thou shalt not sell a soldier's property because of his failure to pay the taxes national, state or local. Thou shalt not settle a law suit against a soldier during his absence. If a soldier sue, the courts shall postpone action until he can attend to it. If a soldier have a mine, or timber or farm claim, assessments on which are overdue, it shall be held for him.

Honor thy soldier and thy sailor, that thy days may be long in the land of Liberty.

No man has greater love than he that offereth his life for the world's sake, and it is commanded that neither lawyers, nor the loan sharks, shall fatten on him. Congress is content to call this bill the civil rights bill. It's the divine rights bill.