Current Topics. By James H. Anderson A MUNITIONS PLANT explosion at Split Rock, New Jersey, on July 2, killed 72 employes. Utah has nearly 15,000 men in service in the United States armies, in different parts of the world. Two PASSENGER TRAINS collided at Nashville, Tenn., on July 7, and nearly 100 passengers were killed. In Palestine, in July, Turks and Germans attacked the British forces near Jericho, but were defeated with heavy losses. German aviators killed 54 girls and wounded 16, in a raid over the rear of the Belgian lines near Dunkirk, in July. Nicholas Romanoff, former czar of Russia, has been executed by order of the Bolsheviki government. An excursion steamer sank in the Illinois river, near Peoria, Ills., on July 5, with a loss of nearly 200 lives. Germany is taking over Russia with considerable rapidity, and is drawing therefrom aid in both war supplies and men. A million and a quarter fighting men in France from the United States, is what August 1, 1918, saw engaged in the great war. The 145th Infantry Band (Utah regiment) was royally welcomed, and gave some really choice programs on its visit to Utah in July. Col. Briant H. Wells, of Utah, son of the late President Daniel H. Wells, is on the supreme council which constitutes the staff of Gen. Foch in France. Haiti and Honduras declared war against Germany in July. They are petite nations, but this gives each of them a vote when peace terms come to be considered. CURRENT TOPICS. Congressman Joseph Howell, one of the most devoted friends Utah has had in State and National public life, died at his home in Logan, Utah. Austria's loss in that nation's defeat on the Italian frontier at the end of June cost the Teutonic allies more than 300,000 men, besides immense war stores. In Albania, in the latter part of July, the Italians, French and British drove back the Austrians more than thirty miles, with heavy losses to the latter. The food situation in Germany and Austria is far from being as satisfactory to the people there as it is in Great Britain, France and Italy to the people of those countries. Airplane experiments in the United States have cost the government six million dollars unnecessarily, says a Congressional committee report made in July. Eider John Wells, formerly of the Ensign Stake presidency, has been named second counselor in the Presiding Bishopric of the Church, following the death of Bishop Orrin P. Miller. Brazil is to send 200,000 troops to Palestine, to aid the British forces now there, against Turks and Germans. Thus the "remnant of Joseph" in America is coming into modern war experience. Bastile Day, July 14, the French independence day, was observed in the United States, the Fourth of July, America's independence day, having been observed in France, Italy and Great Britain. Count von MIRBACH, German ambassador to Russia, was assassinated in Petrograd in July, by two men who used bombs. To appease the Germans, the Bolsheviki executed 200 persons for the killing. Italian troops to the number of 400, who had been forced to serve in the Austrian army but were captured by Russia and set at liberty, passed through Utah in July, to join the Italian army in Italy. Russia, under the Bolsheviki, regards the landing of British and American troops on the Murman (north Siberia) coast as an act of war, and consequently is mobilizing her troops to fight on the side of the Teutonic allies. The Red Cross society advises the women to knit men's socks not less than 10 inches long in the feet, and to make both feet of each pair of the same size. No need of the advice to Relief Society knitters, who do that right along. Ex-President Roosevelt had four sons at the war front. Two of them have been wounded, and one, Quentin Roosevelt, a courageous young aviator, killed. The latter was buried by the Germans, within whose line he fell. Coal is likely to be a scarce article in many American homes next winter, unless the people are more active than they have been in storing necessities in the winter before months. The railroads are congested by war's Utah troops to the number of nearly 400, from Camp Kearney, landed in France the second week in July. There also was a large number from Camp Lewis, and from some eastern and southern training camps, but the numbers were not made public. German submarines continue to do much damage to the Entente allies' shipping, the largest vessel sunk in July being the gigantic ocean steamship Justicia, used as a transport. Ten thousand troops from the United States had been landed from the vessel a few days before she was torpedoed. America's casualty list in the war increased greatly in July, and included a considerable number from the intermountain region. It is noted that the casualties were suffered while advancing against the Germans, who were being forced back to defeat.

German newspapers ridiculed "green American soldiers" until the latter, upon the first taste of real warfare on the French front near Chateau-Thierry, gave the Germans a vigorous and surprising application of American war tactics, which turned the tide of battle against the Teutons on July 20, and French, British and Americans administered to the Kaiser's armies the most disastrous defeat they have suffered thus far. It was the crest of the war, and from now on the Teutonic cause is likely to go backward, however slowly.

Inserted as second-class matter at the Post Office.
Salt Lake City, Utah.
Motto: