[Vol35 | September 1948 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: Relief Society Presidency]

LONGDEN Second Counselor Relief Society Congratulates Newly Appointed Y.W.M.I.A. Presidency RELIEF Society members in all the stakes and missions of the Church extend congratulations and best wishes to the new officers of our sister organization, the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association. Sister Bertha Stone Reeder, the newly appointed president, has selected as her counselors Emily Higgs Bennett and LaRue Can Longden.
These women are all outstanding leaders, gifted, faithful, enthusiastic, and devoted to t he welfare of the young women of the Church. Sister Reeder, the mother of two sons and a daughter, is a woman of great personal charm. She recently returned from New England, where her husband, Judge William H. Reeder, Jr., was mission president and Sister Reeder presided over the women's auxiliaries. As an organization the Relief Society feels particularly proud of this dear sister whose loyal efforts in the mission field brought many isolated organizations into close harmony with the ideals and opportunities of Relief Society. She has now been called to a position of even greater responsibility where her loving influence will help to develop the ''mutual" girls into capable and loyal Relief Society members for tomorrow. Sister Bennett, a truly ideal Latter-day Saint woman, is the wife of Harold H.
Bennett and the mother of eight children. Two sons recently left for the mission field. Emily Bennett has many artistic gifts, including writing and music. Her radiant personality, her devotion to the gospel, her understanding and comradeship with young people, are qualities which will greatly influence the young women of the Church. The new second counselor, Sister Longden, has been an active leader in Church auxiliaries ever since she was appointed stake Sunday School secretary at the age of sixteen. She has written many beautiful plays and pageants and is well known for her book and play reviews, which have been of much cultural value in her community, particularly for groups of "mutual" girls. Sister Longden and her husband, John Longden, a devoted Church worker, have two lovely daughters. The sweet and gracious influence of t his wife and mother will now be further extended to include all the daughters of Zion. As Relief Society women, we wish, also, to extend our love and appreciation to t he retiring presidency, Lucy Grant Cannon, Verna W. Goddard, and Lucy T. Andersen.
Theirs has been a service of untiring devotion, of spiritual inspiration, and most gracious leadership. May their future endeavors be blessed with much happiness and the continued enjoyment of t he gifts of the gospel.