[Vol35 | September 1948 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Article | Title: From Near and Far]
CJrom    I  Lear  and  Qjc ar 
Rosa  Lee  Lloyd,  author  of   "Learn    of 
Love,"  says  that  somewhere  during  her 
early  education  she  learned  about  love  and 
how  important  it  is  when  writing  poetry 
or  fiction  or  staying  married  to  the  same 
man  forever  and  ever.  Rosa  Lee  began 
her  writing  career  at  the  age  of  seven  and 
even  now  she  has  to  be  careful  or  her 
imagination  will  run  away  with  her.  She 
has  won  two  national  story  prizes  and  has 
sold  numerous  stories  and  poems  to  United 
States  and  Canadian  national  magazines. 
She  was  editor  of  the  Year  Book  at  Davis 
County  High  School,  a  member  of  the 
Utonian  staff  at  the  University  of  Utah, 
and  she  is  a  past  president  of  the  Art  Barn 
board  of  directors,  past  president  of  the 
Barnacles  (story-writing  group)  and  is  now 
the  president  of  the  Salt  Lake  Chapter, 
League  of  Utah  writers.  Mrs.  Lloyd  and 
her  husband  Llewellyn  lost  their  gifted 
and  promising  son  Tyndale  in  the  recent 
war. 
*  *  *  « 
I  should  like  to  take  this  opportunity 
to  mention  the  enjoyment  I  have  gained 
from  reading  the  fine  material  presented 
in  the  Relief  Society  Magazine.  "The 
Visitors"  by  Fay  Tarlock  (March  1948) 
and  "Pankapaw"  by  Deone  R.  Sutherland 
(March  1948)  held  a  particular  appeal  to 
me. 
-Iris  W.  Schow,  Brigham  City,  Utah 
It  is  indeed  a  pleasure  to  have  work 
appearing  in  a  Magazine  which  consist- 
ently publishes  real  poetry.  "Hillside 
Grain  Field"  by  Eva  Willes  Wangsgaard 
is  delightful. 
— Elaine   Swain,   Vallejo,   California 
I  appreciate  the  fine  material  contained 
in  the  Relief  Society  Magazine  and  look 
forward  to  receiving  it  each  month. 
— Rose  G.  Goates,  President,  West  Utah 
Stake  Relief  Society,  Provo,  Utah 
I   especially  like  the  editorial   "Of   Fa- 
thers and  daughters"   (June  1948)  for  my 
father  was  very  dear  to  me.  And  I  like  the 
photos  and  art  work  of  the  Magazine. 
— Gladys  I.  Hamilton,  Mancos,  Colorado 
Page  648 
Carol  Read  Flake,  author  of  "Sudden 
Storm,"  tells  us:  "Words  cannot  express 
the  joy  with  which  I  received  notice  of  the 
acceptance  of  my  story.  I  am  humbly 
happy  that  my  first  story  is  to  appear  in 
the  publication  of  my  own  beloved  Relief 
Society.  During  my  mission  to  the  East- 
ern States  (1935-37)  ^  served  for  a  time 
as  mission  Relief  Society  secretary  under 
Sister  Don  B.  Colton.  I  am  the  mother  of 
five  children,  four  sons  and  one  daughter. 
The  oldest  is  eight  and  the  youngest  is 
one.  I  shall  be  happy  when  I  can  be  reg- 
ularly engaged  in  Church  work,  but  I  hope 
to  have  more  children — girls! 
*  «  «  « 
I  have  received  letters  from  people  as 
widely  separated  as  California  and  New 
Jersey  referring  to  my  recent  article 
("For  Makers  of  Rhythmic  Beauty/' 
June  1948).  One  lady  in  the  East 
wanted  to  start  to  work  immediately 
on  a  course  of  work  under  me,  but  I  had 
to  tell  her  I  was  not  teaching  a  correspond- 
ence course  in  the  subject  at  this  time. 
You  are  putting  out  a  very  attractive 
and  helpful  Magazine.  Warmest  wishes 
for  your  continued  success. 
Dr.  Carlton  Culmsee 
Utah  State  Agricultural  College 
Logan,  Utah 
Anna  S.  D.  Johnson,  author  of  "The 
Seventh  Handcart  Company,"  published 
in  the  July  issue  of  the  Magazine,  has  been 
requested  by  many  readers  to  furnish  a 
list  of  the  five  couples  married  aboard 
ship.  Here  is  the  list:  C.  C.  A.  Christen- 
sen  and  Eliza  Haarby;  C.  C.  N.  Dorius  and 
Ellen  Gurinda  Rolfson;  J.  F.  F.  Dorius 
and  Karen  Frandson;  Lauritz  Larson  and 
Anne  M.  Thompson;  Jacob  Bastian  and 
Gertrude  Pederson. 
"Some  yotmg  people  said  regarding  my 
story  'Questing  Lights,' "  writes  Belle 
Watson    Anderson,    "that    they    thought 
everyone  who  came  over  on  the  trek  was 
an  old  or  tired  person.  'How  lovely  to 
find  they  were  young  people,  just  like  we 
are,  with  our  problems  ....'"

SoJUAOiiu  of. 
Enrichment  for  Relief  Society 
Lessons 
Essentials  in  Church  History  7i4  pages    $2.50 
By  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 
The  Restored  Church  740  pages    $2.50 
By  Wm.  E.  Berrett 
Presidents  of  the  Church  372  pages    $3.00 
By  Preston  Nibley 
Joseph  Smith,  An  American  Prophet   440  pages    $3.00 
By  John  Henry  Evans 
Joseph  the  Prophet  179  pages    $1.50 
By  Daryl  Chase 
Joseph  Smith,  the  Prophet  552  pages    $3.00 
By  Preston  Nibley 
Teachings  of  the  Prophet  Joseph         410  pages    $2.50 
By  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 
Brigham  Young,  Man  and  His  Work  552  pages    $2.50 
By  Preston  Nibley 
Life  of  Heber  C.  Kimball  507  pages    $3.00 
By  Orson  F.  Whitney 
Life  of  Joseph  F.  Smith  490  pages      2.50 
By  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 
Gospel  Doctrine  553  pages      2.50 
Discourses  of  President  Jos.  F.  Smith 
Gospel  Standards  386  pages    $2.25 
Discourses  of  President  Grant 
Comprehensive  History  of  the  Church  $25.00 
Six  Volumes         By  6.  H.  Roberts 
COLORED  CHURCH  HISTORY  PICTURES 
Set  of  93,  8"  X  10".  People,  famous  places,  events, 
achievements,  from  the  beginning  to  the  present.  An 
illuminating  aid  to  illustrating  your  lessons.  $3.00 
DE§ERE¥  BOOM  COiiP/lW¥ 
44  East  South  Temple  Street,  Salt  Lake  City  10.  Utah 
Please    find    $..     for    which    please    send    books    and    pictures 
as  follows: 
Name            Address. 
Mention    The  Relief  Society   Magazine    When   Buying  From   Advertisers

U.  S.  POSTAGE 
2J^  Paid 
SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 
PERMIT  No.  690 
^|^J^^^i2iaiflra4 
A 
Sleep  peacefully  little  one,  tucked  away  in 
a  safe  place  is  a  bundle  of  "Beneficial  Life 
Policies"  that  guarantee  you  and  your 
mama  will  always  have  a  home  and  plenty 
of  nourishing  food.