[Vol35 | September 1948 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Relief News]

Stewart of Page 582
Relief Society Building News nPHE sisters of the Church have been engaged for this past year in a great undertaking which will stand to their credit forever. The spirit of this call to collect money to erect a Relief Society Building has penetrated to the hearts of the sisterhood throughout the world. Quota payments are being received from faraway missions from which the general board did not expect to get any material help at all due to present economic conditions, although they knew that they would lend their full support otherwise. It is a cause of rejoicing to read the letters which accompany the remittances. Although scarcely a handful of these sisters will, in all probability, ever have the opportunity to enter the portals of the Relief Society Building, they have caught the vision of the undertaking and have given liberally to this great cause from their very limited means. Sister Piranian, Relief Society president of the Palestine-Syrian Mis-sion, writes: It is with great pleasure that I am able to submit to you the donations for the new Relief Society Building from this mission, and to tell you that we have met our quota, 100% ... I wish to extend to you the love and friendship of all the sisters here in Lebanon and Syria. Sister Huntsman, Relief Society president of the Tongan Mission, says: In regards to the new Relief Society building I am happy to tell you that the Relief Society sisters of the Tongan Mission are very happy to have the privilege of giving their contribution along with the other Relief Society sisters throughout the Church . . . This I feel is a splendid record when we consider the conditions of the saints here, and the small amount of money they have; but it is proof that the gospel of Jesus Christ when accepted and lived regardless of race or color brings forth the same fruits of love and service. I appreciate very much having the privilege of working with such fine women as our Tongan women are, and their willingness to do the things I have felt inspired to ask of them. The brethren have been very helpful in assisting the sisters to complete their quotas. The following letter from President Adiel F. Stewart of 583
Temple View Stake, addressed to his Relief Society Stake President LorenaW. Anderson, is a fine example of the appreciation the stake president has for the work of his Relief Society stake board in regard to their completing the Relief Society Building Fund: This is a note of appreciation — ^long past due. I just want to express to you, in writing, our deep and genuine gratitude for your untiring atid painstaking labor§, in bringing to fruition the Stake Relief Society assign-ment. Your accomplishment has been a great inspiration to us, of the priesthood. Will you kindly express to your counselors and board members, the feelings of the stake presidency in this regard. May the Lord bless you, in your work, with his great abundance of spirit and may your spirit TEXAS-LOUISIANA MISSION, SOCIETY BUILDING FUND QUILT Seated in front of the quilt, left to right: Myrtle Blackburn; Eloise Van Osdell; Pauline Jones; Mary Brian; Wanzie Pennington. Holding the quilt, left to right: First Counselor Lillian Zylks and President Alma Browning. This unusually beautiful quilt is made in a fan design of blue and yellow fans on white. There are 225 names embroidered on the yellow parts of the fans. Every woman whose name appears on the quilt contributed to the Relief Society Building Fund.
STAKES WHICH HAVE SENT IN 100% BUILDING QUOTAS South Idaho Falls Stake (Idaho) Idaho Falls Stake (Idaho) San Diego Stake (California) Wells Stake (Utah) Teton Stake (Idaho and Wyoming) Granite Stake (Utah) North Idaho Falls Stake (Idaho) Emigration Stake (Utah) Mesa Stake (Arizona) Rexburg Stake (Idaho) UvADA Stake (Nevada and Utah) Utah Stake (Utah) Seattle Stake (Washington) South Los Angeles Stake (Calif.) Juarez Stake (Mexico) Florida Stake (Florida) Temple View Stake (Utah) Bear River Stake (Utah) Parowan Stake (Utah) Cedar Stake (Utah) Liberty Stake (Utah) Smithfield Stake (Utah) Sugar House Stake (Utah) Salt Lake Stake (Utah) San Luis Stake (Colorado) Oneida Stake (Idaho) Tooele Stake (Utah) San Juan Stake (Utah) Sevier Stake (Utah) Grant Stake (Utah) East Provo Stake (Utah) American Falls Stake (Idaho) Oquirrh Stake (Utah) East Rigby Stake (Idaho) San Bernardino Stake (California) Maricopa Stake (Arizona) San Francisco Stake (California) (Weiser Stake (Idaho) (Oahu Stake (Hawaii) (West Pocatello Stake (Idaho) MISSIONS WHICH HAVE SENT IN 100% BUILDING QUOTAS Northern California Mission Hawaiian Mission Eastern States Mission Palestine-Syrian Mission Samoan Mission Tongan Mission New Zealand Mission WARDS AND BRANCHES (IN STAKES) WHICH HAVE COMPLETED THEIR MEMBERSHIP QUOTAS (Since publication of the list in the August Magazine, and prior to August 6, 1948) Arbon Ward, West Pocatello Cardston Fourth Ward, Alberta Duncan Ward, Mount Graham Emmett First Ward, Weiser Escalante South Ward, Garfield Glendale East Ward, San Fernando Heyburn First Ward, Minidoka Heybum Second Ward, Minidoka Jefferson Ward, Alberta Kahana Branch, Oahu Kaimuki Ward, Oahu Kakaako Ward, Oahu Kalihi Ward, Oahu Kaneohe Branch, Oahu Las Cruces Branch, Mount Graham Laie Ward, Oahu Lanakila Ward, Oahu Lordsburg Ward, Mount Graham Makiki Branch, Oahu Mission Ward, San Francisco Nanakuli Branch, Oahu Papakolea Ward, Oahu Pearl City Branch, Oahu Phoenix Second Ward, Phoenix Pine Ward, Maricopa Pocatello First Ward, West Pocatello Pocatello Third Ward, West Pocatello Pocatello Fifth Ward, West Pocatello Pocatello Sixth Ward, Pocatello Pocatello Ninth Ward, West Pocatello Pocatello Tenth Ward, West Pocatello Pocatello Eleventh Ward, West Poca-tello Pocatello TJiirteenth Ward, Pocatello Rupert Second Ward, Minidoka Twin Falls First Ward, Twin Falls Wahiawa Branch, Oahu Waikiki Ward, Oahu Wales Ward, Moroni Webster Ward, Park West Bountiful Ward, South Davis West Ensign Ward, Ensign Woolford Ward, Alberta BRANCHES (IN MISSIONS) WHICH HAVE COMPLETED THEIR MEMBERSHIP BUILDING QUOTAS (Since publication of the list in the August Magazine, and prior to August 6, 1948) Albertson Branch, Central Atlantic States Aldridge Branch, Central Atlantic States Ann Arbor Branch, Northern States Azalea City Branch, Western States Banning Branch, California Bradfordsville Branch, East Central States Calumet Branch, Texas-Louisiana Casper Branch, Western States Colfax Branch, Central Atlantic States Cumberland Branch, East Central States Delta Branch, Western States Detroit Branch, Northern States Dutch Gap Branch, Central Atlantic States East St. Louis Branch, Central States Escondido Branch, California Fallbrook Branch, California Fort Benton Branch, Northwestern States Fort Lauderdale Branch, Southern States Hemet Branch, California High Point Branch, Central Atlantic States Jackson Springs Branch, Central Atlantic States Lexington Branch, East Central States Lompoc Branch, California McMechen Branch, East Central States Miami Branch, Southern States Monte Vista Branch, Western States Nacogdoches Branch, Texas-Louisiana Oildale Branch, California Ojai Branch, California Orange Branch, Texas-Louisiana Oxnard Branch, California Parkersburg Branch, East Central States Pascagoula Branch, Southern States Paso Robles Branch, California Peoria Branch, Northern States Petersburg Branch, Central Atlantic States Port Arthur Branch, Texas-Louisiana Portsmouth Branch, Northem States Roxboro Branch, Central Atlantic States Santa Barbara Branch, California San Dieguito Branch, California San Luis Obispo Branch, California Santa Maria Branch, California Sink Creek Branch, Southern States Taft Branch, California Tulsa Branch, Central States Verde Valley Branch, California West Palm Beach Branch, Southern States Williamson Branch, Texas-Louisiana Winston-Salem Branch, Central Atlantic States Yuma Branch, California