ELIZABETH SNOW IVINS Sketches of Representative Women Of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints By Susa Young Gates II Elizabeth Snow Ivins 'Pioneer of the Second Generation" HE first generation of Church pioneers have practically left this scene of action. The second generation are also. Slipping away rapidiy, as many of them are in the sixties and seventies of life. Of the second generation of pioneers, Elizabeth Snow Ivins may well be accounted a distinguished figure. She has shared in pioneering experiences from Salt Lake City's earliest days and in the settlement of Saint George when there was no Saint George, only flats and swamps in Dixie land. On down to Old Mexico her pioneering feet have trodden the difficult and toilsome way which marked so many of the second generation as deserving of pioneer remembrance and_ honor. The intelligence and strength of her character evidences the fruitful quality of her spirit which turned all her experiences into deeper womanliness and more sympathetic wifehood and motherhood. She was the daughter of that pioneer of pioneers, Erastus Snow. Her mother, Elizabeth Ashby, accompanied this great leader on his earliest Utah pioneering experiences. Libby was born on the 24th of March, 1854, in a comfortable adobe home built by her father on Second Feast and First South Streets. When Apostle Erastus Snow was called to settle the Red Sand Desert Valley, below the rim of the Basin, he took his wife Elizabeth and her three children on this momentous pioneering trip, and was accompanied by some of the choicest men and women of Salt Lake City. Erastus Snow left Salt Lake on the first of November, 1861. Most of the wagons were drawn by ox teams, and there were cows and chickens in the outfit, as well as tools and seed grains and fruit and flower seeds. It took one month to reach the Dixie valley. The usual pioneer experiences beset their pathway. There were no roads that could be called roads; rocks and sand and mud and on the upper part of the trip, snow made daily progress slow indeed. One day was spent at Cedar, where a few log houses were already erected as a settlement. On reaching Saint George they found a few persons camped on the east side of that barren valley. There was water, there to be dug out of the slough. A spring on the north side of the valley was dug out and enlarged as fast as possible. To the childish memory, that winter was one continuous raining deluge. It seemed as if it rained forty days and nights, and the Rio Virgin and Santa Clara rivers became raging torrents. In the spring of '62, the settlers moved up on the city plat which had been surveyed by Dr. Ivins and began building homes for their families. 'The first two years, however, the people as a whole lived in tents. Libby's mother had thoughtfully taken along a rag carpet and a set of dishes, imported from St. Louis. Which had never been unpacked. 496 A pioneer table had been manufactured in the Cedar settlement, and this served not only as a table and a seat, but as a cupboard also. A little later rude chairs were constructed. This was a mission to establish a mission, and all of the pioneers were artisans either within the home as domestic engineers or in the fields and hills as irrigators and wood-choppers and house builders. Apostle Erastus Snow brought an abandoned two-roomed log house from the Tonaquin and set it up in Saint George, where he located his family. His wife Elizabeth entertained the visitors from Salt. Lake City first in her tent, then in the log house, and still later when she was domiciled in the large adobe abode, called the Big House, built by her husband six years after he settled in the Saint George valley, and which contained many comfortable rooms, upstairs and downstairs. She always entertained the guests and travelers who came for conference or were passing through to California. In the earliest days there was a bowery outside of her log room and the wagon box was used for emergency sleeping quarters. It was here that Libby's mother entertained President Brigham Young and his party who came down on visits to the new settlement. Then when in December of the year 1872, President Young brought Col. Thomas L. Kane, whom he had met in the East in the trek out from Nauvoo, to spend the winter, accompanied by his wife and two children and by William C. Staines, and also by John W. Young who had brought along a negro cook, President Young asked Apostle Snow about entertaining these distinguished visitors at the Big House. Aunt Libby Snow willingly moved to the basement story, which was comfortably furnished, leaving RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the two upper floors with roomy sitting rooms, dining room, kitchen, and many cozy bedrooms on the third floor. Two rooms on that floor were made into a sitting room and office or study for Col. Kane. This experienced traveler expressed his genuine pleasure and gratitude when Sister Snow arranged to cook and serve his own meals in his sitting room, leaving the rest of the large party to gather about the long table in the dining room. He was happy in this cozy home and never forgot the friends he made there. Here Libby grew through the restless cycle of childhood and developing maturity, attending school in the winter and acting as chief help to her busy mother who was an exquisite housekeeper. Libby began teaching school when quite young. About the year 1874 she was urged to go over to Harrisburg and teach the mixed summer school there, as it was difficult to hold school in the winter. Naturally artistic she decorated with the needle her own and others' clothing and household furnishings. For two years she and Annie Woodbury taught the mixed school in the fourth ward of Saint George. Libby Snow was both the most beautiful and the most popular girl in Saint George during her girlhood years. She was a charming social leader, but was as well a most exemplary exponent of her father's and mother's teachings. When the organization of the Mutual Improvement Association began in Saint George November 18, 1875, Libby Snow became a ward president in that organization. This initial association was quickly followed by others, in Santa Clara, Pine Valley, Pinto, Rockville, Virgin, Toquerville and Panaca, in the order named. When the stake organization was effected, Libby Snow ELIZABETH SNOW IVINS was made the first stake president, and chose for her counselors Mary Goddard Whitehead and Artemesia Snow Wooley Seegmiller. These young officers planned their own work and spent their time and efforts in a most profitable manner. They held weekly meetings and had excellent programs. At the meetings, the usual study of the scriptures, interspersed with readings and music, formed the exercises. When the stake was organized it necessitated considerable traveling, but Libby Snow was equal to every occasion. She was a good speaker, never wasting her hearers' time with platitudes or excuses, but always giving them something definite to think of and put into practice. When she was beginning this work she happened to be in a meeting and was unexpectedly invited to the stand by her father to speak to the large assembly as the representative of the Y. L. M. I. A. She whispered to her father that she hadn't a thing to say and he replied in his wise way, "then let the Lord talk through you," and the Lord certainly did bless her on that occasion. She had grown up with all of the youth of Saint George knowing that young Anthony W. Ivins was the leading spirit in every boyish enterprise and in all youthful adventures. But not until 1878 did he seek her hand in marriage, although he had been attracted to her, child that he was, when he saw her at her father's camp, going down to Saint George in 1861. His heart had been faithful to that early impression and when he really proposed to the charming girl, he was both gratified and blessed in receiving her answer. The young couple were married November 9, 1878, and lived in the Big House 'with her mother for six months. Then the bridegroom built a comfortable home just below his 497 father's house, a couple of blocks distant from her mother's home, and here they lived for quite a number of years. All but one of her nine children were born here. Her husband was taken into the stake presidency shortly after their marriage under President Daniel D. MacArthur, and there he labored earnestly and efficiently. In the fall of 1896 Anthony W. Ivins was called to Mexico to take charge of the mission which Elder Erastus Snow had opened up in that distant southern land. Here Libby was very busy in rearing her children and entertaining many visitors both from the north and from Mexico City itself. For some time she served as president of the Relief Society. No one was ever turned away from her door. Everyone was made welcome. She gave her best to all who were sheltered beneath her roof.. In 1908 Anthony W. Ivins was appointed to the apostleship as a special witness of Jesus Christ in this last dispensation. The Church people of Mexico were loath to give him up, for they loved him as brother and father. His love for them had manifested itself in their pioneering responsibilities everywhere, and his splendid business acumen and fine executive ability had kept the wheels of simple government running smoothly. On returning to Salt Lake City, the Ivins family located at First Avenue for a time and_ finally purchased the Beebe home in 1921. Sister Ivins has made a home of this house, where her friends are welcomed, her children are administered to, and her husband finds solace and relaxation from the strenuous responsibilities of his office and calling in the Church as First Counselor to President Heber J. Grant. If a mother's measurement is to 498 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE THE IVINS HOME IN MEXICO be taken by the children whom she has helped to rear to manhood and womanhood, the name of Elizabeth Snow Ivins reaches high into the sky line of achievement during this later decade. Her oldest son, Antoine, is a college graduate and has done much pioneering in his youth and early manhood in Mexico. He was called to act as manager of the plantation in the Sandwich Islands where he had hundreds of men, many of them of foreign birth, to oversee and to use to the best advantage in that difficult mission. He was exceedingly popular in his labor there and has been efficient in his financial administration. In April, 1931, he was called to be one of the First Seven Presidents of Seventy and to preside over the Mexican Mission. Her second son, Grant, spent five years in the Japanese mission鍟hree years as president. He published Talmage's Articles of 'Faith in Japanese and had the translation of the Doctrine and Covenants ready for publication when he returned home. As a graduate of the U. A, C. In agronomy he is a most popular and successful head of that department in the Brigham Young University at Provo. The third son, Stanley, is an alumnus of Ames College, and on his return home he engaged in business activity, and is now manager of the Clayton Investment Company. All the daughters have married well known, rising men in the Church. In the evening of her life, this pioneer wife and mother looks back upon the past with a true conception of life's values, with deep gratitude for her parentage, for her husband and family, for her friends and especially for the lessons of life which the Gospel of Jesus Christ has engraved upon her pliant and finely attuned mind and spirit.
