
What Am I? I am a 'far too common sight in the neighborhood of every high school. I am small and innocent in appearance, but contain immense possibilities for working mischief. I ruin many a football team. No coach will permit players to use me during the season, for I am sure death to wind, speed, and "pep." I am responsible for innumerable failures in school, and for still more in after life. I can destroy a boy's ambition and will power, and put his brain to sleep. At my best, I am a worthless thing to spend good money for. At my worst, I injure body, mind and morals. The evil I do is incalculable. Still I flourish. I am the student's worst enemy—I am the CIGARETTE. John Elson, Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y. X Ok Ok Ok Ox Howard A. Kelly, M. D., chief surgeon, Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore, Maryland, says: "Boys, if I were you, I would let tobacco alone. As a doctor, I see and constantly hear of many who are seriously hurt by it. It is a wasteful habit and easily becomes a harmful one, readily interfering with your success in life. * * * The national bill for tobacco is something appalling; it is a terrible indictment against a nation like ours, where so much good can be done with modest sums of money, that so much is utterly wasted in smoke." * OK * Ok "There is something about the cigarette habit that weakens and unnerves the boy. It destroys his memory, robs him of his power of attention, saps his will power, and deprives him of his initiative.'—Judge DeLacey of the Juvenile Court in Washington, D. C. Madame Ernestine Schumann-Heink, perhaps the best loved of women singers, at the close of her concert at Smith College, in responding to an encore for another song, said: "Listen, girls, I have something very important to say to you, and it will do you far more good than another song. * * * It's about cigarette smoking. I want you to know that I have never smoked, and I never will. I think, and I say it with all my heart, 'that it is a crime that you girls are poisoning your young bodies by smoking cigarettes." TRICK FALLS, GLACIER NATIONAL PARK Photo by Hileman
