"Lynette, One of the Lilies That Bloom in My Pool A Woman-Made Lily Pond By Maud Cheguidden H, how I longed for a lily pool! How I yearned to see the azure sky reflected with its floating clouds on a tiny body of water of my own! How I hungered for the sight of pale pink. Water lilies on the liquid breast, of golden finny creatures gliding about the mysterious depths! I wanted it so badly that I really ached with longing. But that was nothing to the ache I developed in my back when I later got well into the actual making of the pool. Yes, I decided that if I was to have my pool, I should have to make it myself, even though I were nothing but a poor, weak woman. I chose a beautiful torrid day in July on which to commence my digging𨫎hich probably goes to prove how inferior is the feminine mind. I dug out a shallow depression. Roughly circular and about five feet in diameter. By the time I got the excavating done, it seemed five miles in diameter. Then I went in to fix the baby's bottle and do two or three dozen of the minor jobs with which all housewives fritter away their time. The next day I scraped away a little more earth, for I knew my excavation should be two feet deep in the center and should slope saucer-like to the edge. All the time that the perspiration was pouring from me, under the rays of that Julv sun, I cheered myself with the thought of the sylph-like figure I was acquiring at the same time. Then I went in to fix the baby's bottle and rest myself with a few hour's ironing. By the third day my rudimentary pool was fully twelve inches deep at the center, and by the same token I had come to the end of the fairly loose surface soil and had introduced myself to the simon-pure adobe which lurked underneath. Dynamite seemed to be urgently needed here, but I hadn't even a pickax瑈othing but the family shovel with a blunt edge. After striving in vain to make a lasting impression in the virgin hardpan, I filled the depression with water and went in to fix the baby's 514 bottle until the water slowly soaked into the reluctant earth. In this manner my operations continued, alternately soaking the water in, and scraping the yellow clay out. JI must be losing ten pounds a day, I was sure. Trade in arnica, sprain remedies and liniment at the local drug store perked up surprisingly, and various masculine peddlers, solicitors and bond salesmen came into the yard intending to sell but walked out again hurriedly, thankful to get away before I became violent. Eventually, however, the potertial pool was ready for its cement lining. I had bags of cement delivered from the lumber merchant's, and a load of gravel and another of sand was brought to me by a farmer who merely had to scoop it out of the Jordan river. Yes, we have a small stream with this auspicious name, in Utah. Here I was seized with one of my most brilliant ideas. We had some old, broken cement paving lying around doing nothing in the yard, and it occurred to me that I might use pieces of this to pave my pool, filling in the interstices with home made cement. Laboriously I carried the broken blocks into place, skinning my remaining undamaged fingers and dropping a few on my toes by way of variety. It had been a marvelous idea! I. Wouldn't need half the quantity of cement now. To join up the islands already in place. The cement mixing was a most intriguing job. I did it in the washtub, and one of my biggest comforts was that I simply couldn't have a washday until my concrete was all laid. I never did like wash days. I put seven shovels of gravel into the tub, then one of cement; I continued until the tub was about half full, then I turned them over and over until the mixture looked an RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE even color, before I added water and turned the mass over and over again. I had for years been looking back sadly on the passing of my happy mud pie days, and now here they were back again. When the mixture was about the same consistency as the cream of wheat which formed the baby's breakfast, thick enough not to run, I flopped it, shovelful by shovelful, into the spaces between the broken paving stones, pushing it into place with my fingers. Oh yes, thank you, I had a trowel, but I was so awkward with it and so handy with my hands! And everybody knows that hand-made articles are superior. I must have mixed close to a million washtubs of cement and stuffed and packed it in till I became dizzy. The July sun blazed on and on, and I thought I would have to walk blindfold the rest of my life. Standing 'upright became agony. Meanwhile, I continued to fix the baby's bottle, to scrub and bake, to darn and patch and make strawberry jam. At last, however, all of the cement was in 'place and nicely smoothed 'out, and into the edge I pressed flat rocks, in as natural an appearance as I could achieve. If I had lost any weight during. The manual labor, I now regained it all with interest, I became 'so inflated with pride over my handiwork. Allowing three days for the cement to harden, I turned the hose into my pool, breathless with anxiety to see if it held water. It didn't. With horrible rapidity the water disappeared. Poor innocent creature that I was, I had forgotten the finishing coat of rich cement which would make it watertight. This coat was mixed with one part cement-and three parts sand, and was applied with the shovel, the broom, my hands, and any other A WOMAN-MADE LILY POOL tool which seemed to fill the need. This overcoat was one inch in thickness, and then to make doubly sure of its holding 'water a final trimming was applied of pure cement, mixed to the consistency of paint, and applied with the broom. When all was dry, my pool held water, and the town was scarcely big enough to hold me. How proud I was. Who wouldn't be? All of the water in my new pool, however, must be bailed out with buckets lest there be lime which would disagree with the fish. Placing a drain in the pool had been beyond my powers. A trip up the canyon for rich black mountain soil gave me the necessary earth for the future water lilies, for success with which one needs a foot of earth and a foot of water. Over the earth I spread a coating of clean sand, like icing on a cake, designed to keep the water of crystal clearness. All was in readiness now for the infant goldfish, which had been housed in a two quart fruit jar since their purchase at the five-and-ten, a 515 few days before. What a philanthropist I felt, as I turned the bright little creatures from their prison jar into the wide, wide world of the pool. Water lilies were to come later. How much pleasure we have had from this little pool! In the midst of summer one feels cool just by looking at its silvery surface, and in the moonlight it is a thing to inspire a poet. In the five years since I almost broke my back in its manufacture we have had yellow water poppies, amethyst water hyacinths, waxy white water lilies, yellow water lilies, pink and red ones, tall porcupine grass and a few vagabond bulrushes which have to be firmly squashed, or they would take entire possession of the pool. Our original three goldfish had ten babies the second summer and the children have watched, fascinated, the evolution of many tadpoles. If I couldn't have any other part of a garden, I would have a pool, for櫘rowning blessing, you don't need to weed a pool!
