Margaret Irvine Leatham By Annie Wells Cannon "Oh fair are youth and strength; but fairer yet The face of age when sculptured by a soul Where love of God and man have held control And wrought no line that wisdom could regret." BEAUTIFUL woman was Grandma Leatham,. Even after she was 94 years old. Love of God and man was her daily creed, and always her comely presence and smiling countenance radiated joy and cheer where'er she passed. A truly great woman was Grandma Leatham, for she took the common things of life and walked nobly |, among them. In far away Scotland where shepet was born she was called a "bonnie lass" and many are the tales her dear ones had to tell of her beauty, her goodness and her courage. One oft repeated story was that one summer night after the long stroll over the heather with her young lover when she returned to the thatched cottage, her face aglow with love light in her soft brown 'eyes she told the "gude folks" that ~she and "Jeemie" had plighted their MARGARET IRVINE LEATHAM troth and would be' married right ' away, because James was to leave in a few days for America. The gospel message had come to Lanarkshire, their native town, and the Leathams, and the Irvines, and the Hunters, and other families, had heard and believed and were anxious to gather to Zion and partake of the blessings of their new found faith. They knew it meant separation from dear ones, and hallowed things, they knew it meant sacrifice, but they were ready and willing. So they were married, this maid of sixteen summers, the youth a trifle older. Her courage when he left her was typical of all the years of her long life. She looked always forward, undaunted, to a brighter day beyond. Two years passed and between them they had saved enough to make it possible for her to follow to the "Promiesd Land." O* a bleak cold day in the spring of 1856 she left her native land. Every rock and flower, every sparkling stream and shimmering lake was dear to her heart, but she fought back the welling tears, knowing full well that forward was her fate though the path be perilous and untrod. Steerage passage in a sailing vessel meant weeks tossing over the turbulent Atlantic, mid scenes and associations scarcely to be endured. Endure them she did, however, and proved herself a ministering angel among this motley throng. Here, at this early period developed in the soul of Margaret Leatham that "touch of human kindness that makes the whole world kin." She discovered in herself an aptitude for nursing. Days and nights she spent helping the almost helpless women care for their little ones, and 511 assisting the ship's doctor deliver the new born. So helpful was she that the doctor told her, even at this early age that she would make a good midwife and nurse. MERICA at last, and then the journey across the states to the frontier. As had been previously planned before embarking, the British companies this year would fashion for themselves small carts, to hold the necessary belongings, which they would push over the plains, walking themselves the whole long journey. So they came, several hundred of them, trudging along, at first full of song and mirth and determination, but as the weeks advanced and provisions fell short, many faltered. It seemed there had been a miscalculation of time or else the storms this year came earlier. There was much distress of mind and great physical suffering. These zealous people knew little, or almost nothing, of the perils of such an undertaking, but having started, they saw nothing else to do but push on as best they could towards their goal. There was need for the young and strong to shoulder the burdens, to lighten the loads, to put heart into the wavering souls, who sometimes felt they would rather die than try to take another step. Margaret Leatham was straight and strong and young. She waited on the aged, © she nursed the sick, she carried the little children across the rivers, making many trips back and forth and one night when a little babe was born on the frozen ground in a defile near the head of Echo Canyon she was able to do for that poor mother, the part of nurse and doctor and she praised her Heavenly Father for the knowledge she had gained while helping the doctor on the ship. In her quaint Scotch accent she 512 often related many a pleasant story or sung a ballad to brighten the somber days of that never to be forgotten journey, while onward she pressed with forward look and hope serenely placed. Ome in the valley with her husband the two young people began to build a home. Pioneer life with all its hardships and inconveniences, has also its pleasures and compensations. Cooperation in work, neighborly kindness, friendly hospitality and willingness to lend a helping hand or share the meager meal all tend to bring happiness and good cheer. Such was the nature of the home life of this goodly couple. In Aunt Margaret's garden grew fruits and sweet herbs which she well knew how to prepare into savory foods and medicines to take to the sick or aged friend, where her services were often needed. Though she began her practice of midwifery when doctors were few, she continued in this service to within a few weeks of her death. At first it was a necessity among the people that called for her ministrations, but later it was choice, for those who knew her preferred her skill to any other. She went to all alike and gave them the best she had. She demanded no pay from the poor, and from those who had plenty only accepted a small remuneration. During the long years of her practice she delivered nearly 4,000 women, scarcely having any misfortune and then the trouble was due to other causes than the confinement. For seventy years she lived in the home her husband provided when they first decided to live in Salt Lake City. It was humble, *comfortable, not richly furnished, and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE yet she might have acquired wealth, but her charities were many and her wants were few. Twelve children were born to Brother and Sister Leatham, seven perceding them in death. The following five sons and daughters survive John and William A. Leatham, Margaret L. Pitt, Alice L. Kesler, and Sarah L. Woolley; also sixteen grandchildren, twenty-three great-grand children and two great great grandchildren. A large and fine posterity to honor the good works and revere the memory of their pioneer parentage. She was a consistent Latter-day Saint serving humbly in the Relief Society, never seeking office. She was a good citizen and appreciated fully the right of suffrage. She kept herself posted on public affairs and was an ardent believer in women taking part in political matters. Mrs. Leatham served as a municipal and county election judge in every election in Salt Lake from 1856 until the last election before her death, having the distinction of being the oldest election judge at the polls. At the age of 87 she made a trip to Alaska to visit a grandson, who was superintendent of a mine in that far away land. To have lived almost a century | and through all those years to have been a friend in need, to have retained a perfect memory, to have not lost the luster of the eye, nor the sense of sound, to have a sympathetic understanding of human nature is indeed a marvel. To have known and associated with such a woman is indeed an honor. Blessed be her memory. Margaret Irvine Leatham was born January 3rd. 1837, in Lanarkshire, Scotland. She died July 8, 1931, aged 94
