[WomansExponent | Vol34 | 1905 | November | Issue: 6 | Title: Thanksgiving Thoughts | Author: Unknown]

THANKSGIVING THOUGHTS.
	Perhaps there has never been a more
auspicious time to celebrate Thanksgiv-
ing than this present year of our Lord,
1905. The country is prosperous, as a
whole, commerce, agriculture, education,
all seem to indicate the season's height
of material enjoyment of the good things
of life; there is really no poverty com-
paratively speaking in this glorious land
of liberty, those who are not able to pro-
vide for themselves are cared for in such
generous ways, that on Thanksgiving day
and indeed almost every other day, there
is no lack of good food, suitable raiment
and good cheer. The churches generally
provide well for their own respective
poorer members, and charitable and phil-
anthropic societies throughout the land
extend hospitality in the most appropri-
ate ways to all without waiting to inquire
into all the details of individual lives.
	The Salvation Army supplies all the
hosts that other people neglect, and great
credit is due them for looking after and
extending a helping hand to the poorer
and neglected, and even the forsaken.
	Thanksgiving is a bea[-]tiful custom and
one that promotes family reunions, and
in bringing together socially those [-]ho
are related by kindred or friendly ties,
cements the good fellowship which exists
and lightens the burdens of everyday
cares and vexations. The commingling
together calls forth the finer sentiments
of the heart, and the glad countenances
evince the joy and pleasure felt in meet-
ing at the festive board, even though the
fare be ever so simple, because it is sea-
soned with heartfelt gratitude and thanks-
giving to the Author of all blessings and
benefits.

[Column 2]
	A song of praise wells up in every heart
whether expressed outwardly or not; the
very atmosphere of the home circle is
filled with a realizing sense of the infinite
goodness and mercy vouchsafed to all
mankind. We cannot be too thankful for
this time-honored custom which has come
down to us from our forefathers and fore-
mothers, whose simple lives and habits
in those early days of frugality and often
scarcity, yet gave to us this blessed obser-
vance of rejoicing for one day in the
harvest season, when the grain has been
garnered and the fruits of the tree and
vine been stored for the winter-time.
	No doubt the appetizing viands suggest
good humor and story telling especially
of the past, and this very cheerfulness
favors digestion; and altogether the rec-
ollections awakened even of those who
are gone to "a better land" are good for
us all, and the new comers into the fami-
ly circle help to banish regrets and to
hold out inducements for future gather-
ings of a similar nature; and the soul is
strengthened for higher purposes, and
the way seems brighter (at least for the
time) for we forget ourselves in thinking
of others.
	Youth and age meet together, the baby
and the grandmother, and the association
not so much of effort to please, as the
spontaneous enjoyment that comes from
the inner springs of life, renews courage
and gives another aspect to what is
around and about us.
	Such occasions are really the true poetry
of life itself, for they fill a longing for ex-
pression, and even those who seem dull
and silent are glad to hear the old songs,
and to listen to the stories of past ex-
periences, and actually find themselves
interested.
	People get nearer to each other even if
the feeling is unexpressed, and such gath-
erings are not forgotten, but come back
to men and women "From some odd corner
of the mind," with vivid appreciation long
years after, and call up the tender ties
that bound them in the shadowy past.


