[WomansExponent | Vol34 | 1905 | November | Issue: 6 | Title: General Relief Society Conference | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
	The General semi-annual Conference of
the Relief Society was held in the Salt
Lake Assembly hall, Thursday, October
5, commencing at 10 a. m., President
Bathsheba W. Smith presiding. Open-
ing hymn, “Glory to God on high,” pray-
er by Dr. Ellis R. Shipp. Sister White
took charge of the singing, which was
furnished by the Granite Stake sisters.
Roll call. showing a large attendance of
representatives from the several Stakes.
	President Bathsheba W. Smith made
an address in which she commended the
sisters for their good works and felt to
congratulate all on the splendid attend-
ance, as it was larger in numbers than at
any previons conference, felt proud of the
labors of the faithful sisters, and urged
them to take care of the youth of Zion
as well as to assist the needy and nurse
the sick. She realized the magnitude of
the work and its importance, and exhorted
one and all to maintain their integrity to
the Gospel and bear testimony of the
truth.
	Reports from presidents were called for
and President Mary John of Utah Stake,
gave a summary of the financial condi-
tion of the Society in that Stake, and re-
ferred to her recent serious illness and her
gratitude for her restoration to health
which enabled her to be present with us
today; spoke of the false teachers and
preachers rising up to lead the weak and
doubting ones astray.
	Sister Leah Blackburn reported Wayne
Stake in excellent condition.
	The sisters from Granite Stake rend-
ered the hymn composed by Sister Emily
H. Woodmansee, for the Relief Society
Jubilee, “Daughters of Zion, the friends
of the poor,” Sister Green leading, Sis-
ter Emilie Maeser accompanist.
	Relief Society Los Angelos branch was
reported by President Eliza Woollocott,
she stated they were differently situated
there from the sisters in Zion and conse-
quently their labors differed from ours,
they assisted the Elders and mission in
various ways, and were doing everything
possible to promote Gospel work; had
some hindrances, yet were prospered in
many respects.
	President Jane S. Richards, Weber
Stake, spoke upon “Visiting and Healing
the Sick.” She referred first to the Sav-
ior's baptism, then related some of her
experiences in the Church and the inci-
dent concerning her baptism, and the
opposition that was raging at that time;
she had been given up by the physician,
etc., she was as one raised from the

[Column 2]
dead after the baptism; told many inter-
esting circumstances in her journeyings
in the Church when the power of God
was made manifest. and appealed to those
present to train their children in the true
Gospel, of which she bore a strong and
earnest testimony; believed that faithful
mothers' prayers would be answered in
regard to their children, when they do all
in their power to teach them right; en-
couraged all present to take part in the
work of the Relief Society; it would be of
the greatest benefit and would make
their daily duties lighter.
	Solo, Beatrice Thomas of Granite
Stake, “Not, Not There, my Child.”
	Singing, “Oh, Jesus, the Giver.” Ben-
ediction President Margaret A. Romney.
	Afternoon session, 2 o'clock, President
B. W. Smith presiding. Singing, Sister
Margaret C. Hull leading, “Glorious
things of thee are spoken.” prayer Sister
Julia P, M. Farnsworth, singing, “For
the strength of the hills we bless Thee,”
accompanist, Sister Lizzie Thomas.
	President B. W. Smith greeted all with
a happy greeting, she was especially
pleased to see so many Relief Society
workers assembled, wanted them all to be
strong in the faith of the Gospel and teach
its principles to their children, generally
I think they do know it is right, remem-
ber we have it direct from the holy an-
gels through the Prophet Joseph Smith,
with the power and authority, and we
have the privilege to bless the sick and to
comfort those who are cast down, and it
is a great thing to have this testimony
ourselves, and that we keep the com-
mandments of God; let our religion be
first and foremost, and manifest that we
belong to the Church and kingdom of
God, I take more pleasure in hearing
others speak instead of speaking myself
and I believe in short speeches and short
prayers, I pray you may be comforted
and blessed, and continue faithful in our
most holy faith, and I bless you all.
Amen.
	President Williamina Erickson, North
Sanpete Stake, gave quite a definite ac-
count of the conditions existing among
the people in that locality, there had been
much sickness and some deaths, spoke of
the financial status of the Relief Society;
they have two good halls and one in
course of erection, some wards own lots,
and expect to build in the near future;
felt the mothers' work an advantage and
hoped through that to reach the fathers
as well as the young mothers.
	President Annie R. Duke, Wasatch
Stake, made a fine report of work done;
she referred to leaving Nauvoo in 1846 at
the time of the exodus, crossed the plains
in 1852, her father's family had endured
much hardship in the experiences of those
days.
	President Lilyus C. Page, of Nebo
Stake, reported the Stake in a flourishing
condition in a temporal way, building
halls, saving grain, making quilts and
homemade carpets; had visited the whole
Stake regularly; and the Tintic district
recently added to Nebo from Juab had
been visited once; the poor and sick were
well cared for and the union meetings
were held regularly on the same day as
the Priesthood meetings
	Duet, two young girls from Ensign
Stake, fine singers, Misses Poulton.
	Sister Hattie Blair, recently returned,
reported the branch in New York City,


[Column 1]
the work they do there is very important,
and has been very effective, she gave a
good account of the meetings and the
spread of the Gospel.
	President Addie Cazier of the Juab
Stake said they had taken up the Book
of Mormon since they got through the
mothers' work, she testified it had been a
blessing, they were anxious the young
mothers should join the society.
	President Ann C. Woodbury, St. George
Stake, referred to the great distances
they had to travel in visiting—a thousand
miles—and not a mile of railroad, they
were very proud of their Stake, much
credit is due the people for energy and
perseverance, they had a good opening in
the Muddy Valley, she had great hopes of
that country, the Lord had blessed them,
etc.
	Sister E. B. Wells spoke on the spirit
of Relief Society work, giving her views
of the importance of entering into it with
one's whole soul, felt it was a wonderful
development for the sisters, the greatest
and grandest organization of women in
the world.
	Sister Julina L. Smith spoke upon
"Business Methods in the Home," Sister
Smith discussed this subject in all its
phases; asked the question, "What does
it take to establish any kind of business?"
Union and order, everyone should have
a share in the home, to do some of the
work; each one doing the part allotted to
her, etc.; thought there was a very great
difference between economy and stingi-
ness, spoke particularly upon the art of
bread making., and gave many useful,
suggestive hints on housekeeping.
	Sister Margaret C. Hull sang a solo,
"There is no song but has a minor
strain," "The Echo."
	Choir sang "The trials of the present
day," etc. Benediction, President Annie
S. Musser.
	Conference  continued in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall, Monday, October 9, com-
mencing at 2 p.m., President Bathsheba
W. Smith presiding. Singing. (Sister
Lizzie Thomas Edward having gracious-
consented to take charge of the singing.)
"Come let us anew," prayer by Sister
Mary A. C. Lambert, singing "Redeemer
of Israel."
	President B. W. Smiith, in her opening
remarks, welcomed all most cordially,
felt it a great pleasure to see the large
congregation of sisters, wished she could
take every one by the hand, but that
would take too long; she felt a great love
for them, and a desire to know each one
personally; spoke of her feelings when-
ever she heard the hymn, "Redeemer of
Israel," it reminded her of the time when
they were wandering on the desert land,
she and her sister, they had been sent
from the state, and felt indeed they were
wanderers and in sorrow, for the Prophet
Joseph was in prison, and no one knew
what would transpire—it was a time of
sadness. "I feel to bless you all, and say
Peace be unto you and in your homes,
and may we all prove faithful and true."
	President Annie Wells Cannon report-
ed the Relief Society of the Pioneer stake
for the first time, though they were or-
ganized a year ago last April, spoke of of
ficers' meetings being well attended,
thought President M. I. Horne and her
co-laborers had left the branches in such
order, that it had been comparatively easy
for those coming after them to take hold

[Column 2]
and carry on the work; thought the ward
conferences were a great benefit in get-
ting the society work before the people,
hoped that every woman in Zion would
have her name enrolled, "because it is a
roll of honor;" prayed we might increase
in numbers and have the blessing of the
Lord to help us in our labors.
	President Margaret A. Romney felt it
a great honor to represent the Ensign
stake, for it was in a thriving condition.
She used to think the 20th ward was the
best society, now she thought the seven
branches were all the best; they had
grand lectures on mother's work. Sister
Romney spoke highly of all the work in
the stake and of the help and support the
Relief society was to the Bishops, and
the appreciation they expressed of its
benefits.
	Solo by Sister Lizzie Thomas Edward,
"The Divine Redeemer," music by Gounod.
	President Sarah A. Colton was glad to
be present and sorry not to have been
able to attend with us on Thursday; said
she had been called to preside in the
stake a year ago last May, but had been
President in Vernal ward sixteen years;
had a desire to assist in the upbuilding of
the society and to minister to the dis-
tressed and those bowed down with sor-
row and trials. They were reading chap-
ters from the Bible and giving Book of
Mormon lectures in the society meetings,
the sisters asking questions; they had tes-
timony bearing, and were striving to
make some progress; she was interested
in saving grain, thought some had been
wasted because of not having places to
keep it secure.
	President Alice J. Call, Star Valiey
stake, said in that stake they were in a
very scattered condition, some sisters
walk two and three and some six miles
to attend meetings. The attendance did
not average half the membership, but she
had great charity for those who did not
attend, because she knew the circum-
stances; it was not a grain country, the
wheat was often frozen before it was ripe,
and generally speaking the people had to
buy their flour; the Bishops all realize
the benefits of the Relief Society.
	President Annie S. Musser, of Liberty
stake, gave an excellent report of the
work in that stake, and how much the
sisters enjoyed their labors, praised the
teachers, and spoke enthusiastically of
the work of the Church in general, and
blessed the presiding sisters and all who
were laboring in the glorious work of the
Lord in these latter days; rejoiced in all
that was being done for the upbuilding of
Zion in the earth.
	Sister Emily J. Anderson, late president
of Tooels stake, reported the affairs of
the Relief Society there as being in good
condition; she had visited around the
stake recently; a number of quilts had
been made and sold to good advantage,
and some given to the poor, the money
used to build with of those sold, felt the
society was doing a good work.
	Sister Rebecca E. Little gave an in-
structive lecture on the "Life of Christ,"
which we may hereafter publish in brief
if not in complete form.
	President B. W. Smith, at the close of
Sister Little's lecture, related an incident
in her own life. She said once when she
was real sick, the Prophet Joseph came
to see her; she was too bashful to ask
him to administer to her, but as he left

[Column 3]
he laid his hand on her head and she was
healed and got up well.
	Dr. Romania B. Penrose spoke upon
"Loyalty." Said to her the word had a
golden sound, felt that it is a great thing
to be true; in the family loyalty should
stand guard and each one true to the
other, and not allow the failings in the
home to go out. Referred to the course
pursued by some mothers of telling their
boys' bad actions; felt it was a bad prac-
tice; the boy's faults should be kindly re-
proved aside, not corrected before others.
In our Relief Society we should be true
and sustain each other, and be loyal. I
sometimes wonder if we are as loyal as
we ought to be to each other. It is our
bounden duty to pray earnestly for our
beloved president, Sister Bathsheba W.
Smith, and her counselors, and all who
work with her. It [-]s a pleasure to listen
to those who can stand up and say, I
knew the Prophet Joseph Smith, and we
hope Sister Smith may live many years
to tell us of him, for he was a prophet
and a wonder. Now we are all filled with
loyalty to him and the work he estab-
lished. Think of the sorrow of the
Prophet Joseph Smith when he looked
among those who should have been his
friends and knew they were false. I am
sure it would have melted a heart of stone
to have listened to President Joseph F.
Smith yesterday at the close of the Con-
ference, when we had a baptism of bless-
ing from his mouth," closed by exhorting
all to be faithful and true.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde felt she owed
an apology for coming in late, but she
had been talking with strangers at the
Bureau of Information; said she had al-
ways attended the Conferences of the
Church ever since the days of "the bow-
ery," but had never attended a confer-
ence like the one yesterday. Surely
President Smith's testimony showed the
power of the Lord; thought no trials
were counted too great by her parents.
Let us teach our children the Gospel and
to attend to all the duties, and let us be
at our post always, and see that good men
are elected to govern, and use all our op-
portunities, and try to be a benefit; strive
to remember the blessings that come to
us through faith.
	"The spirit of God like a fire is burn-
ing" was sung by the congregation, led
by Sister Lizzie Thomas Edward. Ben-
ediction by Sister Annie C. Woodbury.
	Conference adjourned until seven
o'clock at the same place.

		(To be continued.)
		EMERY STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of the
Emery stake of Zion was held at Price,
October 31, 1905. The stake officers
were all present, also President John H.
Pace and Counselor Henry G. Mathis.
The conference began at 10 a.m., Presi-
dent Mary A. Sorenson presiding. Sing-
ing' "How Firm a Foundation." Open-
ing prayer was offered by President John
H. Pace.
	President Mary A. Sorenson welcomed
all and gave a short report of the Relief
society of Emery stake.
	President Henrietta Hill reported the
Wellington society. A vocal solo, "Lord
Thou Wilt Hear Me When I Pray," was
rendered by Sister Nellie Wilson of Price.
	A lecture on "Infancy," from Mother's


Plan Work, was ably and interestingly
given by Sister Lucinda C. Curtis, of Or-
angeville. A report of the Castle Gate
society was given by President Elizabeth
Young, who also gave some of her early
experiences in the Church.
	President Henry G. Mathis spoke of
Relief society work in general and the
good that is being done by the same.
Singing, "Praise to the Man who Com-
muned with Jehovah." Benediction by
Secretary Maria Allen.
	Afternoon session at 2 p.m.  Singing,
"Redeemer of Israel." Invocation by
Sister Anna Miller. Singing, etc. Roll
called and seven Relief society branches
represented. Secretary Allen read the
minutes of the previous conference, also
the stake financial report for the year
ending Dec. 31, 1904, which were unani-
mously accepted.
	Instrumental music rendered by Sister
Violet Flack of Price.
	Stake Counselor Mary J. King spoke
on the duties of officers and members of
the Relief society. President Rhoda
E. Robertson reported the Orangeville
society. A vocal solo was rendered by
Sister Griffiths of Castle Gate. Counselor
Maria Guymon spoke on a mother's du-
ties to her family, and keeping the Sab-
bath day holy. Elder  Robert Green-
wood, of Price, on missionaries and Re-
lief society work. Elder H. E. Curtis, of
Orangeville, on the raising and training
of children.
	Secretary Maria Allen spoke of the
General Conference and visiting the Dr.
Groves' L, D. S. hospital.
	President John H. Pace spoke on punc-
tuality. 
	Bishop Ernest S. Horsley, of Price, ad-
vised all to teach children to remember
the important events of their lives.
	Stake President Mary A. Sorenson
thanked all present, and especially the
Price sisters, for helping to make the con-
ference a success.
	Singing, "The Spirit of God Like a Fire Is Burning," etc. Benediction by Sister
Isabella Bryner.
	MARIA ALLEN, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


