Joy in leadership, as in other activities, comes as a result of exercising leadership in the way marked out for us by the greatest leader, as he was the greatest teacher, our Savior Jesus Christ. In speaking of leadership, Christ taught:. Whosoever will be great among you, shall be your minister: And whosoever of you will be the chiefest, shall be servant of all. For even the Son of man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister. Therefore, you sisters who stand at the head of the Relief Societies of the stakes of the Church and all assembled here today are servants to those over whom we preside. In order to render the utmost in service there are certain attributes which must be woven into the very being of our spirits. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE Perhaps the frst desirable at tribute would be a full-hearted acceptance of the particular call which Howevet unworthy we may feel to a call of Jeadership in the Church, we know that we are called to such positions through the inspiration of the Priesthood. When a call comes is 0 time to bemoan lost opportunities of the past to better fit one's self for the present call—it is too late for that. When a call comes we must bend all out energies to training for -. E that lies before US; and seek through prayer, study, and our as it comes: templation of all the work that lies ahead during one year is well-nigh | remember a sister one time who was called to serve on 4 Relief Society stake board. In every ward she visited she related how ill equipped che was to fill the position until finally she was made to realize that she was casting reflection On those who had called her to leaderip. From the day she wholeheartedly accepted her appointment and ceased to apologize, she went forward with matked success and experienced satisfaction and jOY in het work as she magnified her calling. A second necessary attribute for joy im leadership ls full loyalty to those who preside over recognition of their right to 813 us. Perhaps we may be given more duties and responsibilities than we consider to be just. Will we ever find joy through rebelling or being disloyal and complaining to others? No, and through perfect loyalty in accepting without question all that '5 asked of each of us, comes greatest srowth. Every task which is undertaken with a willing spirit to which we devote our best efforts rewards the doer with increased powet of accomplishment. The more the ef fort required, the greater the growth. As Sister Robison 'ised to say, "Wel come the task that makes you g° beyond yourself." Another essential attribute closely aligned with the full acceptance of a call and the magnifying of it and loyalty to those who preside over US, ', not to aspire to any other posi tion than the one to which we have been called. At many of the early meetings of Relief i Prophet Joseph Smith warned the sisters repeatedly against this very evil. Said, "Everyone should aspire only to magnify his own office and calling, beware of self-righteousness and be limited in the estimate of your own virtues." From filling the positions to which we are called will come growth to of each of our spirits which the Lord knows needs the greatest development. We should appreciate the truth that this life ls put a brief span of eternity and out progress will continue 0" where he leave off here. Other necessary attributes are meekness and humility. You will remember that to his disciples, Won dering who ls greatest 10 the king; dom of God, Jesus, placing a child 814 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1949 '1 their midst, said, 'Whosoever to you. During your absence they therefore shall humble himself as lack your tender ministrations. They this little child, the same lS greatest are giving an extra watchcare to your in the kingdom of heaven." A while children that no harm may come to ago | heard of some stake sisters them during your absence. 'They who were going to regulate some sacrifice, as do you, for the good you sisters In a ward. Their spinit seemed may accomplish. Anything but meek and humble.! As our adherence to righteous think we could pattern Our behavior principles, as our obedience to those after that which the Lord gave to who preside over us increase, sO the Priesthood, that poweet! And indoes the joy we gain in leadership, ': as we strive to overcome Out faults by persuasion, by long-suffering, by and weaknesses and discipline selfish gentleness, and meekness, and by and envious traits. Joy comes jove unfeigned; by kindns' A Giouth bee ee foibles pure knowledge which shall greatly and faili enlarge the soul without hypocrisy and without guile." PuNALly, to find. Joy 1 leaderfailed in one assignment Ot sugges tion which the general board has Church callings must be attended th to after our families ate served. This at greatest work of Reliet A S: -_ re) F rc ' ij th requires forethought and diligence ociety—in HYDE to the relief of the: —"_ stranger, pour in oil and wine to put no sister cat find joy 11 leadertget, P 6.. + the wounded heart of the distressed ship if she 1 neglecting her family and drying UP the tears of the orFor your good works we thank you with hearts full of love. We realize that your work taxes yout to Relief Society. Your presence utmost efforts and that not the least here today from Canada, from Mex of your anxiety 1 the responsibility 'co, from all ovet the United States, resting upon you to guide the Relief testifies eloquently of the love and Societies of the stakes of Zion. For consideration your husbands extend yout faithfulness and leadership we RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE pray our Heavenly Father in the name of his Son that you may have increasing joy from your leadership duties and may earn the promise made to Relief Society members by GENERAL 815 the Prophet Joseph, "If you live up to these principles, how great and glorious will be your reward in the celestial kingdom." 'That this may be so, I pray. SESSION THURSDAY AFTERNOON, SEPTEMBER 29, 1949 Digest— Choose You Shis Day Evon W. Peterson HE hosts of heaven were assembled in that great council to listen to the voice of the Father as he told them of his plan to create an earth where his children could enter into their second estate, which was to take a body and fulfill the full measure of their creation. At that time the Father bestowed upon them the greatest of all gifts, the right to choose—to choose that day whom they would follow. In that assembly, naturally, there were some who were not as valiant as were others, yet they were all given their free agency to choose for themselves. That free agency has continued in mortality as a basic principle in the eternal law of progression. However, if we are to gain eternal life, we must be obedient to the laws of truth. Often in the midst of sorrow or trials that come into our lives or disasters that come upon the world, we ask, "Why does God allow it?" One writer said: If only we were honest with ourselves we would admit how unfair it is to blame the Lord. The simple truth is that mankind, not the Lord, is entirely responsible. These things are the direct result of abusing the most wonderful gift we have ever received from heaven—the gift of free-will. In the Book of Mormon we read where the Prophet Samuel was preaching to the Lamanites and he told them of the things that were to happen and the great blessings that were in store for those who would heed the teachings of the Lord, and then he pointed out the tribulations that would come to those who would not believe and he said: And now remember, remember, my brethren, that whosoever perisheth, perisheth unto himself and who doeth iniquity doeth it unto himself, for behold ye are free, ye are permitted to act for yourself, for behold God has given unto you a knowledge and he hath made you free. In our complex life today we are continually meeting new problems. Almost every day is a day of decisions—what to do, what choice to make. With our limited understanding we cannot make important decisions without guidance. There has never been a time when man needed more desperately the help of divine inspiration than he does today, and I know of no better way to secure this inspiration than by keeping the commandments of our Father in Heaven. Although the world is ever changing, the fundamental truths of our gospel are the same today as they the multitudes on the shores of Galilee. He marked the path and led the way, and as Latter-day Saints we have been given light and under. Standing of the road which leads to eternal life. Are we as parents heeding that counsel? Are we exercising our gift of choice in such a way that it will] assure the greatest happiness for ourselves and for our families? I recently read an article written by Elder Stephen L Richards in which he said: The homes which Produce real Latter. Day Saints shall be presided over and maintained by men of strength and cour. Age, of virtue and vision, and by women of tendemess, unselfishness and infinite patience and love. One of our responsibilities as parents is to help our children in mak. Ing important decisions in life. We May not be able to help a child solve his particular Problem, but we can help him to acquire the right attitude toward it and we can encourage him to go to his Heavenly Father for assistance, Youth is the seedtime of life, and if a child is to Teap an abundant harvest he must be taught to choose and sow those seeds that will develop a righteous life. We cannot compel a child to appreciate love and beauty. This appreciation only comes through association with the Home atmosphere js likely the most basic consideration in the development of youth. If the atmos. Phere is healthy and stimulating, the lives of family members who breathe it will likewise be healthy and vigorous, Our Relief Society lessons have taught us that too many today are content to remain on the fringe of righteousness, satisfied with the shel] When they could and should have the core. The worthwhile things of life lie ahead and only struggle can bring us to them. Those who are willing to exert the greater effort reach the greater heights. A man was traveling along a paved highway. The Pavement ended and there stretched before him as far as he could see a ditt road in very poor condition. Where the poor road began a large sign read "Choose your tut now for you will be in it for the next twenty miles," There are Many spiritual ruts along life's highway. Let us try to avoid them. The road to tighteousN€ss is upward and ahead. There are easier roads to travel, but there are none that will bring the supreme joy that comes from righteous liying. The degree of happiness that we may enjoy during our later years will not come by accident nor by good luck, as some may say, but it will be the result of the way we live each day. Let us also remember it is likely that we teach more by what we do RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE spiration of our Father in Heaven in guiding our children so that they may choose for themselves the better life. And in the words of Joshua 817 of old, let us say