Ready for Christmas Ora Pate Stewart T was three days before Christmas, but Emmy was ready. Always, the day after Christmas, she could be seen crocheting a fine edge on a white handkerchief, pulling threads on a scarf for a bit of Swedish darning, or sewing small cross stitches into a sampler or cushion—so that she'd be ready by the next Christmas. "It's not like I make a burden of it," she would explain, and her sharp dark eyes would sparkle with spirit. "I may not be so young, but I still enjoy the giving end," she would continue. And sometimes she would add, "There are richer folks, but giving has never been a burden to me." It was true. She was old, if you looked in the family Bible and counted up her eighty-six years. And she could have been considered poor, if you insisted that old coal stoves and worn linoleum floors were the badges of that modest economy. But she gave, and the burden was never evident. She didn't give just to the needy. I'm sure I didn't need the towel she gave me one year with crocheted colored flowers spilling out from a crocheted basket. And yet, every time I come across that towel, now faded and frayed, something pleasant rises up within me like the scent of old spice. It puts the world in better tune, and points up the corners of my spirits. I needed that, and I guess she knew it. Notwithstanding her years and the circle of braided white hair that framed her slender face, she was Emmy to everyone. Tots were coached to address her as Grandma Emmy, and youthful friends sometimes referred to her as Aunt Emmy. But Emmy she was, and only the postman and the tax collector shared any dim remembrance of a surname. With her lived her widowed daughter, who had made room for her son and his wife, whose three children had been born there. And _ hers was the only house I have ever seen homing four generations in_harmony. Emmy was not wholly crippled. Her hands were gnarled with arthritis, and there were indications that other junctions of her anatomy were similarly afflicted. But she had maintained a discipline over tightening joints, and the pattern of her artistic soul was still transmitted straight and true through her crooked fingers. Years before a stroke had invaded one side of her face, clasping one corner of her mouth in a perpetual smile. "T'm so thankful I wasn't frowning when it hit," she would explain. "Whenever my mother used to catch me pouting she would say, 'Now, Emmy, what if your face should freeze that way? Wouldn't you be a pretty sight!' So now I have to keep a smile on the other side to keep my mouth from looking like a pretzel." From then on I watched her to see if she ever frowned so that I could see her pretzel mouth. But the smile held on. "Besides," she would continue, Page 821 822 "suppose the old striker should come back for the other side? They say if he comes once he will come again. I'll have to be ready." I should have recognized the ominousness of that possibility; but the way Emmy put it there was nothing ominous. And we all smiled with her. S° the morning her great-granddaughter came for me and said Grandma Emmy wanted me to come and get my Christmas present I was somewhat astonished. "Tt's three days before Christmas," I protested, "and besides, I haven't got Emmy's present finished yet." I was making her a scrapbook of poems and proverbs that I thought she might like. I used to read to her sometimes and felt we had a secret bond that the others didn't share. "She didn't say to bring her present," the child rejoiced, "she said for you to come and get yours." I gathered up the unfinished scrapbook and went to get my coat. "She said for you to bring your ukulele, too," the child continued. "She wants some Christmas carols." Often I had played the ukulele for Emmy, sometimes as an instrumental solo, and sometimes as accompaniment for folk songs or hymns. We used to work out harmonies on "My Old Kentucky Home" and "The Old Rugged Cross." She especially liked my arrangement of "Moonlight and Roses" and "Abide With Me." She never belittled the sincerity of that small music box. She never even said, ""T'oo bad you never had RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1949 a pipe organ," like so many of my friends always said. I got the ukulele and followed the child to Emmy's house. Emmy was sitting on the edge of her bed. Besides the four generations of her household there were the milkman and the iceman, who had finished the