business of their visits and now stood at the foot of the brass bed twisting their caps. "We're all here but the postman," Emmy said brightly. "He always brings me a calendar for Christmas and a seed catalogue for my birthday. What time is it, somebody? Maybe we can wait." I looked at my watch. It was a quarter after eight. The postman likely wouldn't be there for an hour. Loaded with Christmas mail, he might not make it before noon. The smell of ominousness hung heavily in the air. 'The sound of silent words whispered ominously. Ominous shadows could all but be seen playing about the room. I was afraid the postman would be too late. The good side of Emmy's face twitched slightly. "We'll sing a few carols and maybe he'll come. Get out your Stradivarius," she said to me. "Let's sing 'O Come, All Ye Faithful.' " We sang "O Come, All Ye Faithful" and "Joy to the World," and "Away in a Manger." 'The twitchings tried to make a pretzel of Emmy's mouth. And my throat filled up and it was hard to sing. "Somebody hand me down the box from the closet shelf," Emmy said, and her voice had an unfamiliar sound. Her daughter brought the large cardboard carton and set it on the bed. Emmy raised the READY FOR CHRISTMAS flaps and lowered her gnarled hands into the box. She moved with great effort, and spoke with even greater difficulty. We all wanted to help her. But Emmy had always helped herself. With similar effort we restrained ourselves. "An apron—for you—my daughter." Her daughter took the apron and dabbed it to her eyes. The grandson got a crocheted scarf; his wife, a dresser set done in Swedish darning; their little girl got a beautiful rag doll with yarn pigtails and a red calico petticoat. When upended, the petticoat made a gay skirt for the pickaninny face underneath. The two great-grandsons got mittens and caps to match in bright wool. There were gloves for the milkman, the iceman, and the postman, and orange pomanders, scented with cloves and dried to a delicate turn, for their wives. Her gift to me was a blue satin needle cushion made in the shape of a small book. 'There were pages for pins and for needles, and there was a pocket for buttons. The title was stitched on the front with gold thread. "The Book of Friendship," 823 it said; and on the inside, in the same golden letters, "For the books we have read together, and the books you must write alone." There was a stinging in my eyes, and I turned to the window. It hadn't been an hour, but the postman was walking up the street on the other side. "Hurry!" I called, almost out loud through the frosty pane. "Hurry, and get your mittens." "Tell him to come,' Emmy said. He brought the calendar just in time. "It's been a lovely Christmas," Emmy said softly. "Please play 'Hark—the Herald—Angels—Sing.'"' I Jaid down my Book of Friendship and raised the ukulele. I couldn't hear the angels; but I think Emmy's hearing was better than mine. Like Jacob of old, she gathered up her feet into the bed and settled back against her pillow. The twitch rippled out to the edge of her thin face and disappeared. The old striker had returned for the other side. But Emmy had been ready. And now both corners of her mouth were clasped in a perpetual smile. <_< NEW SERIAL TO BEGIN IN JANUARY "Dark in the Chrysalis," a new serial by Alice Morrey Bailey, will begin in the January Magazine. It relates the struggle of a woman to overcome loneliness and grief and make a place for herself under adverse circumstances. Beautifully written. The story is vividly and Mrs. Bailey is already well-known to our readers both as a poet and a writer of serials and short stories. Her serial ""The Merry-Go-Round" was featured during 1941 and 1942. She has twice been awarded the first prize in the Relief Society Short Story Contest. ("The Wilderness," published January 1942, and "Nugget of Truth," published in January 1948). Her second-prize story "The Ring of Strength" was published in February 1946. Her second-prize poem '"'Migrant'' was published in January 1948. Mrs. Bailey and her husband DeWitt are the parents of a son and two daughters and they have one granddaughter. Their son Donald will soon be leaving on a mission to Mexico. An unusually gifted woman, Mrs. Bailey is also a composer, artist, musician, sculptor, and a trained nurse. She is active in her ward and has written many plays and pageants for special occasions, as well as writing the first-prize one-act play in the M. I. A. Utah Centennial contest. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, December 1, and December 15, 1889 "FOR THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE Women oF ALL Nations" COMMENT: Mary Hallock Foote, in her picture of the Far West in the Century, says the hfe of man may be large and dramatic, even in failure; but the life of women here, as everywhere, is made up of very small matters,—a badly-cooked dinner, a horrible wall paper, a wind that tears the nerves, a child with something the matter with it which the doctor "doesn't understand," an acquaintance that is just near enough not to be a friend; it is the little shocks for which one is never prepared, the little disappointments and insecurities and failures and postponements, the want of completeness and perfection in anything that harrows a woman's soul and makes her forget too often that she has a soul. J OFTEN WONDER WHY 'TIS SO Some find work where some find rest, And so the weary world goes on; I sometimes wonder which is best; The answer comes when life is gone. Some eyes sleep when some eyes wake, And so the weary night-hours go; Some hearts beat when some hearts break; I often wonder why 'tis so. —A, J. R. THE MAYFLOWER AT PLYMOUTH: There has been completed recently at the capitol a painting which is attracting much attention, not only for the artistic features of the work but also for the historic interest attached. The painting is the work of Harrison Eastman, of Washington. It represents the arrival of the Mayflower at Plymouth Rock. The picture was painted for Mrs. Leland Stanford, wife of Senator Stanford, of California, and is the result of long and laborious research on the part of the artist. It is said that the price for the work is $2 5,000. THORNS AND ROSES: Nature teaches us that we cannot find a calm untroubled stream of light and life. Winter comes with icy sceptre held on high and when his breath is felt the world's wild pulses cease to beat and all her gladsome songs are hushed; but Summer follows with her hand of warmth and loosens all his frigid chains. Night comes, and wraps his sombre mantle round the earth—mantles, dark, and cold, and chill, but day-light drives night shades away. The storm-king often beats down sorrow and dismay, but sunshine always follows rain. Through all, the biting cold, the genial warmth, the dark and light, the storm and calm, we tread life's hill-side path, yet never tread that path alone.—Aretta HOLIDAY THOUGHTS: Salt Lake City has put on her holiday attire once more, and bedecked herself profusely with gay colors, and on every side one notes immediately that Christmas is at hand. The stores and shop-windows are almost too full for display, though a great deal of good taste is manifest in the arrangement of Christmas goods. 'The children are on tiptoe with excitement, and gaze as they pass along with wonder-eyes, at the variety of toys and playthings on exhibit. What a contrast the streets present now to thirty years ago, and how the little folks revel in luxuries that Santa Claus supplies for their indulgence. Page 824 uman elngs, Whether Physically, spiritually, ] ma On, a Musician is the Mother of two children and OF Intellectyay. The wife of aM artist, Mrs Ruth - They are fulfilling Christ's Bryan Rho C was Ministey to Den- "first ang great "ommandment " mark before the war and Ts. Perle cir name jg legion and Charity Mesta js Now United States Min. Will not fai] While their influence ister to the grand duchy of Luxemabides, bourg. En Of 194 ty-eight years old and jg:; one of the MOst original and p Provides "PPtOpriate, aterial for ular painters of he present day. She UME eve "ngs, for "eading to small Paints striking] beautify] countr children wedi @ valuable Supplescenes, many c which appear op ment for use; Sunday School ang Christmas cards mary, The lustrations, by Richard J. Rik; * make g Phic and 'THE Nationa] Federation of colorty] additions to the worth of ~ Women's Clubs, 'cording to Ms excelle t boo Pastor Alson J. Smith, js T€sponsible ' Considerable "MProvement in the KATHLEEN NORRIS Tecently quality of recent MOVINg pictures Made g Strong plea for the Ome of which "ar United Nations meetings to } better" | Opened with Me of the 'sociated with drinking vine and aking th We of alcoho] for gtanted Page 825 MT ORIAL m2 VOL. 26 DECEMBER 1949 NO. 12 Christmas "Won Gre Years THE significance of the word "Christmas" changes with our years, but both to the child and the aged there remains an enchantment which never vanishes. In our childhood, Christmas provides the answer to all our wishes, the one day in the year when dreams become reality. The electric train, the dazzling doll, appear without fail, and the beloved Santa Claus dispenscs a wondrous supply of gifts. Then, the morning after Christmas is one of keen regret in spite of the gifts of yesterday, for an endless succession of days seems to stretch ahead before the next Christmas will come.. In our teens, the day still holds forth great promise and excitement. Although the bountiful Santa has long since gone, rarely do even our most extravagant desires go unfilled. The first Christmas of married life is a wonderfully happy and satisfying day, when, from carefully hoarded dimes and nickles, the husband and wife surprise the other with much-wanted gifts which reveal sacrifice on the part of the givers. And then, as children bless the marnage, the tenor of Christmas changes for the parents. Santa Claus once more dominates the scene with magic as potent as of yore. 'Trains and dolls in ultra-modern dress appear. The looks of love and understanding shared by the parents, as the children exclaim with delight over their presents, are rich recompense for the threadbare rug or the parents' own shabby clothes. And, then, for the last time the scene shifts. 'The children have left to make homes of their own and, perhaps, even the beloved companion has gone ahead. Then Christmas morning is laved with a feeling of nostalgia. Before the flames of the hearthside appears a_ shifting panorama in which Christmases of the past and present glow and fade, and merge. 'The cravings and longings for material largess have largely disappeared. 'The spirit has come to know with certainty "It is more blessed to give than to receive," and an awakened realization of the efficacy of that greatest Gift to mankind, at last, teaches the heart the true meaning of Christmas. M. C. S. She sooth Semi-Annual Church Con ference T the close of each general conference of the Church, while acknowledging the greatness of the conferences of previous years, the last one is always acclaimed as the best one which has ever been held. Page 226 In The Church of Jesus Christ, over which the prophets of the Lord preside, it would seem only natural that the Father would give by inspiration that bread of life most needful and satisfying to his obedi- 827 ent and loving children Thus each Taising his hands ip blessing upon Conference js the best fo the parthe saints. This jg Indeed an age of Ocular tim Onders and the conten lation of The; oth semi-annual] Church television BIVES rise to the thoy ht Conference as a "morable one Of its use as the means of preachin 1 One particular It was history-mak. The Sospel ¢ every Nation, Kindred. Ing. For the first time Church tongue, and People before the end members were Ptivileged to sit in embers of the hurch wh their hom and view by KSL-Ty ald or read the Conference pro Not only the Sound of each Speaker's Ceedings try] show the; appreciaVoice, t his every facia] expression "0n of the teachings d the sery and gesture Sewell) Tip. Close-y ICes of the general uthorities } view obtained 6 television Was suhy Cding the admonit; Penior to 4 view xCept that of th | the "Omparative fey, who ed in the Were—to y ¢ Welfare Plan, Keep the COus posiSabbath g holy, Support the Mise Ta "acle. Those ho slonary Work, thy Tence on Sunday a Chapter 15 ( Conclusion AE house as Very quiet in them in he bottom drawer of the fh he days that followed Penney ardrobe trunk, " bigail, dar. NY went shopping with Jo. Ling, you'll see. This wil] be the anna and struggled to € enthusinest thing + at ever 4Ppened to ASC Over ¢] thes, but she was wh tePenny. Year fr aced and h aVY-eyed Jo om Now she']] "Yed. Joanna, Wakmile When meon Ing in the night, hear her muffled ' Weeping, Sh someone Me€ntions ark's name." C Covered her €als with bigail Put the sock In her Jg the pillow. Someday Penny would " You smile, Joanna, When yo thank her for this, € of Kent Taylor?" Ichael was the ° Joanna ucked in her breath Pain Was delighted with PlOspect of Toared through her. "Ke t? Why eing Teleased from sc Ool. He Y. Oh, but it's different." brought h Me atmloads Maps "Why is it?" and traced the routes they woulg "Oh, Abigail, let's not argue any follow. Da, id went quietly abou; More. Penn the business f learning all r things Joanna | none 2 tying for a girl J knew 4 3; h & time ago ve and. -. And The telephone ark, ip" Oanna * Ger in passin € office, CatchNg up on some last m; Tang, "J Patted Abiga ll answer il's shoul- JOANNA the front hall. Again Joanna silently resolved to have an extension put in. She kept forgetting. She lifted the receiver. "Hello." "Mrs. Niels?" A strange man's voice came over the wire. "Ves 23 "Mrs. Niels, this is Doctor Weldon. Your son David has been rather badly injured... Automobile accident. Could you come at once?" Joanna felt swift breath tush in her throat. "J']]. -. Pll come at once. What hospital?" She called to Abigail and rushed back to her room, picking up her coat and bag. Ig seemed to Joanna that it took her hours to reach the hospital. Even the moments of climbing the stairs, calling to Abigail, seemed to stretch interminably, and the three block drive to the hospital seemed an endless crawl. Then there was the long wait at the desk until the gitl there could tell her in which room David lay. The elevator whined and inched to the fourth floor, until Joanna felt the scream that crouched in her would burst its bonds any moment. The long corridor was silent and empty except for a man who conferred with a nurse at the far end. He looked up and saw Joanna and Abigail and came toward them. "Mrs. Niels?" "Yes. How is he?" He used a great many words to tell her that David was not expected to live, words like feathers to smother the pain. Always a hope, of course. A frail chance for recovery. - "But it is best you remain 829 here for awhile, Mrs. Niels. A. So close was he to death. "May we see him?" She was aware of Abigail's arm around her when they went into the small, green painted room with its white, high bed. David lay quietly under the stiff neatness of hospital sheets. "He is not conscious," Doctor Weldon said. Joanna went over to the bed and looked down on her son, His head was bandaged and on his cheek was a long strip of plaster. His hands lay at his sides, ink was stained along one forefinger, Doctor Weldon held a chair for her and Joanna sank into it, still holding David's hand. She said to Abigail, "We forgot the children -+. It I don't want it to be too great a shock..." Abigail nodded. "I know. I'll go back and tell them." She paused beside Joanna, opened her mouth to speak, and then turned and left -.. Wordlessly. The nurse came back into the room, bent over David. She and the doctor whispered together. Joanna did not hear them. She sat quietly, holding David's hand. After the years of having so much of him, his laughter, and his presence, his clothes spilling over in his toom, his scattered books, it seemed strange to be so humbly grateful for so smal] a thing as his breathing and his hand in hers. The nurse and Doctor Weldon went away. Joanna did not notice. She remembered the day David was born, her first knowledge of anguish and terror. She remembered when the nurse had brought him to her and how David had looked, like 830 a fighter, much the worse for wear. She remembered when he was three and she had tucked him in for the night, how he had lifted his brown eyes to hers and said, "I love you and I like you." She remembered the day they had buried Big David. The neighbor's bonfire and small David's shadow, stretching long across the path. Once betore in her life she had known this utter desolation and despair. Like a drowning woman clutching straws, she had gone to her room and knelt beside the little rocker. ENTLY, she put his hand down on the sheet and rose and went over to the window. She stared, unseeing, down into the lights of the valley, remembering the day she had asked for help for her children. She had asked for bread. Bread? The very windows of heaven had opened and riches beyond her dreams had been her portion. " And I have forgotten. For a long time I've thought, allowed myself to think, that I did it all myself. I didn't want to be humble any more or grateful. I wanted to be what people said I was, rich, successful, and marvelously clever." She leaned her forehead against the cold window. How can I go to him now? How can I think he will hear me? "Please," she whispered, "I, who would not come to you with my riches, now come in my want. There is none else to help me, there never has been, only I was too proud and blind to admit and remember. Please... He is so young... Boys like him are needed... So many have been lost." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1949 She bowed her head in her hands and fought silently against the completion of the prayer. After a long moment she said, "Nevertheless... Not my will, but thine, because thine is always the right and perfect way." The reassurance came instantly, the beautiful joy that she remembered at once, though it had been many years since she had experienced it. The joy that was peace and love and the sweet assurance that all would be well... That David would recover. It was as though she had groped for years in a room of shadows, stumbling over things, not being able to see, when all the while the key had been in her hands. She went back and sat beside David and leaned her wet face upon his hand. Doctor Weldon and the nurse came back. 'They examined David again, their faces grave and quiet. The nurse gave Joanna a swift look shot with pity and foreknowledge. Joanna smiled. "He is going to get well," she said. The doctor and the nurse exchanged glances. "There is always a chance,' they said with forced heartiness and unbelief. David stirred and mumbled. They bent over to him, the three of them. He opened his eyes, staring blindly at the ceiling. "Mom?" Not knowing she was there, the word pushed up from the disordered fragments of thought. Joanna smoothed his cheek. "I'm here, David," she said, though she knew he could not hear. "Get well quickly, you are going to England, remember? On a mission." JOANNA The nurse looked at her curiously. They still think he will die, Joanna thought, but he will be well in no time at all. T was the sixth of October. Joanna sat on the low wall that surrounded the pond of the Seagull Monument and tried to listen to the sermon, broadcast over the loud speaker. But try as she would, her thoughts kept moving to the people around her, wondering about them. They drifted past her, or stood quietly, their faces listening and rapt. Beautiful people, she thought, something so clean and fresh about them. Children played around the pool coatless, their bare arms silken smooth in the warm gold of the October sun. Girls went by in groups, like blown flowers, or walked sedately by the side of their young men, their faces lifted and rapturous, oblivious of those, like herself, who stared. Penny and Mark would be along any moment. They had promised to meet her. Joanna was impatient for their coming. It had been a week since she had seen Penny. She wondered how long before she would grow accustomed to Penny in her new role of wife. A man came through the crowds, walking slowly, looking all around. Joanna stared at him for several moments before she could believe her eyes. Kent! Kent, with his bright, arrogant head, tall above the throng. Kent, with his face incredibly lined and sunbeaten, walking through the conference crowds on an October afternoon. Joanna put her hands to her forehead and closed her eyes. When she opened them again he would be gone. 831 But when she lifted her lashes he was standing before her. "What an amazing bit of luck to find you here. You I just stepped off the train." He sat beside her. His eyes scrutinized her hungrily. Joanna wet her lips. She sat still under his gaze, wryly aware of the white wings of hair showing under her smart hat. "You're beautiful," he said. She had no wish to tear old wounds open. "I've been reading about you for years and years. Welcome home." He took a deep breath, looking all around him. "If I had a spoon I would gobble up all this sunshine. I saw the mountains coming in 1 had forgotten how breathtaking." "You've seen a great many beautiful places, to judge from your descriptions." "Home," he said, as though he had not heard. "Home. My place and my people, my streets and my hills, my earth " After a moment he turned to her, "I forgot, how are the youngsters?" She smiled. "David is in England still. He wrote me that he had lunch with you in London thrilled him to pieces, lunching with a world-famous war correspondent." "He's the salt of the earth, that boy. Penny is married?" "Yes. Sally and Michael and Abigail and I are the only ones home." She added lightly, "I did manage to bring them up, after all, in spite of all the alarms and excursions." His eyes went slowly over her (Continued on page 861) Ideas for Christmas Decoration Mary Grant Judd Member, Relief Society General Board [This is the eighth rangements, and related subjects —Ed.] At Christmas time, Copyright 1944 by and last in a series of short articles on table decorations, Chappell & Co., at Christmas time, the house is all aglow With children's cries and eaget eyes and And thankful is your whispered pray€t, That loved ones fill your house and windows framed in snow. As church bells softly chime, heart with warmth at Christmas time. Inc., New York, N. Y. Used by permission HIS verse from one of the songs delightful light opeta, Norway, expresses the love heart to heart in family gatherings at Christmas time. Have your own family groups, what do you feel most poignantly as you look back to the Christmases in your parents' homes? Member the most expensive gift you ever received, OF lS it the warmth of the love that was €Xp greatest of holidays our mind? I believe that appropriate decorations have much to do with true Christmas spirit. They are tangible expression of the intangible emo tions we feel_—candles in the window light candles in our hearts. Sometimes we like something new, but many of our decorations, used yeat after year, become traditional with our particular family. Christmas wouldn't be quite the same without them. To be effective the decorations need not be expensive. One woman always puts het Christmas cards on poth sides of the living and dining rooms. (Scotch tape does the trick.) Page 832 Recently she and her husband de-. Cided that it might be well to modernize these rooms and put an archway between, but, after a protest from the married children, they decided that it was more important to have the traditional Christmas decorations than to g° modem. This same woman made a lovely background for a miniature scene of the nativity which che has used for years. She bought a very reasonably priced wooden salad bowl and sawed 0 one edge so that the bowl was given a base to stand on. She then gilded +t inside and out, placing her miniature scene inside, and achieved 4 really beautiful effect. Bright red, green, OF silver paint and mixed in with the evergreens On the mantel or used as part of your table And, by the way, many people wait until the Christmas season to trim and shape their ever greens, thus taking advantage of the discarded clippings for decorative purposes. The glamour weeds described in the August issue of our flower ar- IDEAS FOR CHRISTMAS DECORATION Magazine can be used very effectively for Christmas. Combine them with holly, red candles, or Christmas balls. If you missed the article on candlemaking in the September Magazine, I hope you will refer back to it and make some of the candles described therein. For a very striking effect, try an all-white table for a change. Dip tumble weeds in any cold-water paint, using the same thickness as you would if it were to go on the wall instead of on the weeds. Sprinkle them with artificial snow. When completely dry place them on mirrors on the table. Around the mirrors put cotton sprinkled with stars, moons, and crescents cut from heavy silver paper. 'Then add a number of small white angels which may be purchased in any large department store. You may enjoy making some angels, copying the ones in our illustration. They are fairly simple to make and provide a colorful addition to either the table, the mantel, or the tree. The metallic paper in bright blue, green, red, silver, and 3 833 gold comes in a twenty-six inch width and sells for about thirty cents a yard. The pattern, as you will notice, comes in two parts. Make your measurements as follows: No. 1— 13 inches No. 2— 4 inches No. 3—6% inches No. 4— _ 6 inches The head of the angel in the original model was a ball of wood attached to a stick, but we have had success in substituting a Christmas ball in the small size which was dipped in cold-water paint. Silver balls seem to hold the paint better than any other color. The hair is three strands of wool yarn braided together and glued on. The end of the ball slips through the hole marked 5 on the pattern. The part of the ball intended for hanging onto the Christmas tree, furnishes support for a bit of cotton which holds it in place. Staple or paste your paper together and run a wire from the piece of cotton holding the head on 2 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1949 Simmons Photo Art "ameouatapiniiinne ic nota " bs sss aut tectoes Aachen" aE: CHRISTMAS TREES AND CHRISTMAS ANGELS to the bottom of the skirt and slip the wire under the staple there. For the sleeves, simply cut a piece of tarlatan seven by ten inches, fold it lengthwise, tack it together in the middle of the raw edge, and wind the outside edges with a bit of thread to simulate ruffles. The sleeves are slipped through the angel's robe, which is made by stapling or pasting together the edges marked 4 in the pattern and then bending back and attaching the part marked 3 so that it reaches just to the top of the circular skirt. It is unnecessary to attach the sleeves in any way to the paper. Staple the wings to back of body. For some reason I often wander into the food department as I conclude these articles. Once more, with apologies to the cook's corner, I'm going to pass on to you a very economical as well as delicious recipe for Christmas pudding. Many of us have trouble in using up our stale bread and this recipe takes care of that problem. X kK K & CHRISTMAS PUDDING 12 cups dry bread crumbs 6 Ibs. Raisins 3 cups brown sugar 1 lb. Chopped nuts 6 tsp. Soda 3 tsp. Nutmeg 6 tsp. Cinnamon 2 tsp. Salt 6 cups milk 1 cup grated raw carrots 1 Ib. Finely ground suet 3 cups mild molasses Add molasses and milk to suet, add nuts and raisins, dry ingredients, and mix well. Fill whatever size greased cans you prefer three-fourths full. If lacking a lid, use waxed paper which is tied over the top of the can and then given an extra coating of fat over the top to prevent the paper becoming too damp in the steaming process. You who like to bring the pudding to the table to serve, will probably prefer a round mold in a larger size. If you are one of those who enjoy a change, try following the old English custom of bringing the pudding to the table all ablaze. Dip two cubes of lump sugar in lemon extract and, after slipping your pudding onto the serving dish, and surrounding it with the hot sauce, touch a lighted match to the sugar. It will burn for several minutes. IDEAS FOR CHRISTMAS DECORATION 835 Serve with any hot sauce you prefer. Here is my favorite: In the top of your double boiler place % cup water, % cup orange juice, % cup brown sugar, and 'e pound butter. When all are well heated and mixed add one slightly beaten egg. Remove kettle from stove, leaving lid on to allow egg to cook without curdling. March Anniversary Work Meeting Luncheon Christine Eaton MEAT LOAF (serves 50 persons) 10 pounds ground raw beef } 8 eggs well-beaten 2 pounds ground fat salt pork 3 tbsp. Salt 6 cups dry bread crumbs 5 tbsp. Minced onion 4 cups beef stock or milk. 5 tsp. Mixed herbs (marjoram, 1 tsp. Pepper thyme, parsley) Mix all ingredients together well. Put in loaf pans and bake two hours at 325° F. Baste occasionally. SCALLOPED POTATOES (serves 50 persons) 12-15 pounds sliced potatoes 3 tbsp. Salt 2 qts. Hot milk 1 tsp. Pepper 1% cups shortening (bacon or chicken % cup flour fat may be used) Parboil potatoes 2 minutes, then drain them. Place in baking dishes a layer of potatoes then a slight dredging of flour. Repeat until potatoes are all used. Add salt, pepper, and shortening to hot milk. Pour over potatoes in pans, cover, and cook in slow oven 300-325° F. 1% hours or until potatoes are done. Remove the covers and raise the temperature to 375° F. Long enough to brown, about 30 minutes. We served peas as a vegetable with the meat loaf and potatoes and fruit salad. Then, for dessert, we had our Relief Society birthday cake and ice cream. — HOUSEHOLD HINT When a recipe calls for ground raisins, pour the raisins into boiling water (do not boil) for a little while. They will then grind nicely and will not stick together or to the meat grinder or bunch. ——- The Year Is Done Eunice J. Miles The fleeting breath of the waning year Is vanished with the old and the sere, But out of the ashes of chill December Hope will flame from a smoldering ember, For the cycle is done and the New Year's gleam Is marking the trail of a truer dream. A Santa Claus Cookie Box Rachel K. Laurgaard Illustrations by Elizabeth Williamson Christmas cookies—the old-fashioned ones that make their appearance only at Christmas time; peppernuts, springerlie, and almond cookies are a fragrant threesome that will delight the heart of the most expert cookie connoisseur. The very best box ever invented for cookie giving is a sparkling clean shortening can. Glue a sheet of white paper around the label, and on this draw a smiling Santa face with red and black crayons. Embellish him with sideburns and whiskers of cotton, and attach red crepe paper to the lid for his tasseled cap. He will be as amusing a cookie box as his contents will be delicious. As every cookie maker of long standing knows, Christmas cookies improve with age. Six weeks before the holidays is not too early to bake them and stow them away in their Santa Claus boxes. By gift-distributing time they will be at their peak of flavorsome goodness. PEPPERNUTS 1/3 cup shortening 1 tablespoon cardamon seeds 2 cups confectioner's sugar /, teaspoon salt 4 eggs, well-beaten 1 teaspoon grated lemon rind. Y% cup cream 1/3 cup chopped citron 1 teaspoon cinnamon 1/3 cup chopped orange peel 1 teaspoon cloves '2 teaspoon anise seed "2 teaspoon nutmeg 4 cups flour Y teaspoon black pepper 1 teaspoon soda Cream the shortening and sugar. Add the rest of the ingredients in order and mix well. Chill the dough for three hours. Shape into small round balls and place on a greased cookie sheet. Bake 12 minutes in a moderate oven. Dust with powdered sugar when cold. Page 836 A SANTA CLAUS COOKIE BOX 837 SPRINGERLIE 2 eggs 72 teaspoon baking powder 1 cup sifted sugar 7 teaspoon salt 2 cups sifted flour grated rind of 1 lemon Beat the eggs until very light, and slowly sift in sugar. Beat for fifteen minutes. Add the dry ingredients sifted together three times, and the grated lemon rind. Beat for fifteen minutes longer, and turn out on a well-floured board. Add more flour if necessary to make a dough firm enough to be rolled thin and pressed with a wooden form. Roll quite thin, and let stand for ten to fifteen minutes, until the top has dried slightly. Press with a carved board or springerlie rolling pin to impress designs. 'Then cut apart and lay on well-greased cookie sheet which has been sprinkled with anise seed. Let stand overnight and then bake in slow oven, 275-325° for twenty minutes, or until slightly browned. Store for four to six weeks. One-fourth teaspoon of anise oil may be substituted for the seed, or the seed (one or two teaspoons of it), may be mixed in the dough instead of spread on the cookie sheet. ALMOND COOKIES Ib shortening (part butter for flavoring ) cups sugar eggs juice of 1 lemon grated rind of % lemon 6 cups of flour 1 teaspoon baking powder 1 lb. Blanched almonds — Wa WW W Cream the shortening and sugar; add the beaten yolks of the eggs, lemon juice, and rind. Sift the flour and baking powder two or three times, and add, mixing well. Separate the dough in three parts, and form into rolls. Place these in the refrigerator for a few hours. When ready to bake, slice thin, arrange on cookie sheet, brush each cookie with slightly beaten egg whites, sprinkle with sugar and slivered almonds. Bake in a moderate oven. =< Auditor Grace Sayre When Winter audits the books of Summer And sees how wasteful she has been, He strips the gold leaves from her forests And sends the snow to dress her in. Fn Gver-Burning Christmas Cade Rachel K. Laurgaard ITlustration by Elizabeth Williamson Wey not start an ever-burning Christmas candle this year? It js such fun to watch it stow, as though it were really a living thing holding high a lighted torch of good cheer. Begin your Perennial candle, red or green, as you like, by setting it unselfishness, of brotherly How I long to gather my adorable grandchildren around me and read stories to them. Perhaps next year will find us all together again. Let us hope so. Cantime, all of you remember that J love you very, very much. Mother Clara Horne Park LESSON L <a Sheology—The Life and Ministry of the Savior ER DEPARTMENT Lesson 22—"Jesus Returns to the Temple Daily" Elder Don B. Colton (Reference: Jesus the Christ, Chapter 30, by Elder James E. Talmage) For Tuesday, March 7, 1950 Objective: To study carefully the Lord's teachings within the temple as he neared the close of his earthly life. An Instructive Incident on the Way T is interesting to note that each evening during the last week of the earthly life of Jesus, he returned to Bethany to spend the night. He left there early the last Monday morning to spend most of the day in the temple at Jerusalem. During the early morning journey, an incident occurred which has been difficult for many to understand. Jesus grew hungry and saw a fig tree in full leaf. The fruit buds of a fig tree appear earlier than the leaves. Figs are highly esteemed as a food in Palestine and some kinds are edible early in April. The particular tree which attracted the attention of the group gave promise of having fruit, but, when examined, was found to have nothing but leaves— a showy, barren tree. It was sentenced to perpetual barrenness. Jesus said: "... Let no fruit grow on thee henceforward for ever. And presently the fig tree withered away" (Matt. 21:19). The lesson taught was one of faith in the power of God. He again called on his disciples to have faith. "The blighting of a tree was shown to be small in comparison with the greater possibilities of achievement through faith and prayer. But to so achieve one must work and pray without reservation or doubt." How striking these words which Jesus uttered: "And when ye stand praying, forgive, if ye have ought against any: that your Father also which is in heaven may forgive you your trespasses. But if ye do not forgive, neither will your Father which is in heaven forgive your trespasses" (Mark 11:25-26). The one smitten fig tree has proved of great service to humanity in teaching the power of God over all things, even the power to destroy as well as to give and restore life! The incident of the barren fig tree also teaches a lesson against hypocrisy. 'The other trees did not deceive; they would bring forth fruit in due season. But the leafy, fruitless tree was a pretender and deceived those who hungered. It "was a symbol of Judaism, which... Proclaimed itself as the only true religion... And invited all the world to come and partake of its rich, ripe fruit." Its fruit, however, had bePage 839 840 come worthless as a saving power. The religion given to the world by Moses and others had degenerated until it had completely lost its saving grace. The Second Clearing of the Temple When Jesus entered the temple grounds on this particular Monday, he was indignant when he saw how that holy place was being desecrated. Once before he had driven out the sordid money changers and defilers of the temple of the Lord. Once more, and within four days of his death, he would again cast out the defilers of his own house. In mighty majesty he "... Cast out all them that sold and bought in the temple, and overthrew the tables of the money-changers, and the seats of them that sold doves, And said unto them... My house shall be called the house of prayer; but ye have made it a den of thieves" (Matt. 21:12-13). He had declared himself the Christ; it was his house. Just how the expulsion was made is not told. It is sufficient to know that his command was obeyed. After the temple courts were cleared, the Lord resumed his teaching within the area over which the enraged chief priests claimed jurisdiction. The common people listened attentively. Even the children cried out: "Hosanna to the Son of David." He healed the lame and opened the eyes of the blind. With courage unequaled in the annals of history, he faced the very men who were seeking to take his life and continued his gentle ministry until he had delivered his message. When the day was ended he returned to Bethany—his haven of rest. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1949 Christ's Authority Challenged by the Rulers Tuesday morning he returned to the temple. During the night, the chief priests, scribes, and some elders had held a meeting and decided upon a plan to entrap him. They challenged him: "By what authority doest thou these things? And who gave thee this authority to do these things?" It is fair to presume they already knew. They knew of his many miracles and that he had raised the dead on three occasions. Lazarus was in their midst, a living testimony of the Lord's power over death. They had only a sinister purpose in seeking to entrap him. The Lord countered by asking them a question. That method was common among the people. His question was, ""The baptism of John, was it from heaven, or of men? Answer me." 'We cannot tell," was their reply. Jesus had proposed that if they would answer his question, he would tell them by what authority he acted. 'They were in a dilemma, "... For all men counted John, that he was a prophet indeed." They dared not answer his question and so Jesus replied: "Neither do I tell you by what authority I do these things" (Mark 11:29-33). When he had completely silenced the chief priests and scribes, he calmly resumed his talks and gave the people three splendid and appropriate stories. The first of these was the Parable of the Two Sons. While this parable was given primarily to the men who had come out in open hostility, demanding by what authority the Savior acted, it is a lesson for all (Matt. 21:28-32). This parable should be read. It ls LESSON DEPARTMENT clear that the chief priests, scribes, and Pharisees were symbolized by the second son. Unfortunately, there are hypocrites in every community and in every age. We should guard against hypocrisy. Jesus did not commend the first son for his refusal to obey. Both sons were sinners, but the second was the worse. 'The one, however turned from his sin and for that repentance was commended. The other continued in his sins while openly professing obedience. Repentance, gen- | uine and sincere, is the antidote for sin. | Next, the Lord gave the Parable of the Wicked Husbandmen (Matt. 21:33-41). 'The Jews were students of their scriptures. 'They quickly recognized the aptness of the parable and were compelled to pronounce judgment upon themselves. The human family was the vineyard, "but more specifically the covenant people, Israel." 'The soil was good, the vines choice and the whole vineyard was protected. "Wicked men had used the vineyard of their Lord for personal gain, and had rendered no part of the vintage to the lawful Owner." Good messengers had been sent—chief among whom had been John the Baptist—but they had been rejected. The Son had come but he was soon to be killed and the coming event was treated as an accomplished fact. When, at the close of the story, Jesus asked them what the Lord would do unto these wicked husbandmen, they were compelled to reply: "He will miserably destroy those wicked men" (Matt. 21:41). Frequently in the Jewish scriptures the Lord is referred to as the 841 "stone which the builders rejected." During this talk Jesus used almost the exact words used in Psalms 118:22. Paul said that the members of the Church are "... Built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ himself being the chief corner stone" (Eph. 2:20). In the plan of salvation, Jesus the Messiah is the chief cornerstone. 'Those who reject him, reject God himself. Jesus then gave the Parable of the Royal Marriage Feast (Matt. 22:1-10). It must be remembered that the guests had been invited long before the event. There was nothing surprising in the matter, or should not have been. An invitation of a king is always a command. In this case many of the invited guests had refused to come, and when the king later sent a more urgent request or appeal, they treated it either lightly or with contempt. In either case it was rebellion against the reigning monarch or his son. The parable portrays an utter disrespect for the authority of the king and it would be no excuse to plead engrossment in personal affairs. The sovereign, therefore, executed retribution on the rebellious subjects. The careful student will see the aptness of the story, if he sees that the allegory has its final fulfillment in the destruction of Jerusalem a few years after the crucifixion of the Christ. Those who were bidden were not worthy and the king commanded his servant: Go ye therefore into the highways, and as many as ye Shall find, bid to the marriage. So those servants went out into the highways, and gathered together all as many as they found, both bad and good: 842 and the wedding was furnished with guests (Matt. 22:9-10). Matthew, verses 11 to 14 inclusive, should be considered as a supplement to the account of the marriage feast. The king discovered that one of the guests had come without the required "wedding garment." 'That he was guilty of intentional disrespect is plain. Evidently provision had been made whereby all who applied would be furnished with proper robes. The king was careful to inquire as to the reason for the exceptional appearance and found that the guest would not answer. He had, no doubt, come in by some way other than the right one. For that reason and for his intentional disrespect, he was cast out and severely punished. Concluding the giving of the three parables, the Lord said, "For many are called, but few are chosen." "The call comes to all; but it may be outwardly accepted, and a man may sit down to the feast, and yet he may not be chosen to partake of the feast, because he has not the wedRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1949 ding garment of converting, sanctifying grace" (Edersheim. See note 6 at the end of chapter 20 of the text). 'The three parables discussed in this lesson were the last given publicly by the Lord. Questions and Suggestions for Discussion 1. Discuss the incident of the destruction of the barren fig tree. Justify the action taken. 2. Through a discussion of the incident of the Lord clearing the temple the second time, show that it is necessary for us to have an active hostility toward evil. 3. When his authority was questioned, how did Jesus silence his critics? 4. Discuss the incident of the Royal Marriage Feast as it may be applied to us today. Are we so engrossed in material pursuits that we fail to accept the invitations we receive to participate in the Lord's work? References in the Four Gospels Matt. 3:7; 21:1, 12, 13, 16, 18-44; 22:1-10, 14. Mark 11:1, 12-17, 20-33. Luke 3:12; 13:6-9; 14:16-24; 19:20, 45, 46. John 2:14-21. Visiting Seacher ITlessages—Our Savior Speaks Lesson 6—'For This Cause Shall a Man Leave Father and Mother, and Shall Cleave to His Wife" (Matt. 19:5) Mary Grant Judd For Tuesday, March 7, 1950 Objective: To point out that, following their marriage, the allegiance of a man and woman to each other transcends even the lasting allegiance which they owe to their parents. HEN the Pharisees came to Christ with a question concerning marriage and divorce, he quoted this scripture which, in its LESSON DEPARTMENT entirety is to be found in Genesis, second chapter and_ twenty-third and twenty-fourth verses, where Adam exclaimed: This is now bone of my bones, and flesh of my flesh: she shall be called Woman, because she was taken out of Man, Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother, and shall cleave unto his wife: and they shall be one flesh. Christ's statement applies with equal force to the woman in the partnership of marriage. She must understand that, in very deed, she gives herself to her husband. In her affections he now comes first and, if she has chosen her mate wisely, it is to him that she can confidently look for advice and guidance. Together they plan the course of their lives. Does all this mean that the sweet relationship between a mother and her son or daughter cannot continue after the marriage of the latter? On the contrary, the relationship can become even morte satisfying, because now they have much more in common. This is particularly true of a mother and a daughter. However, it does mean that the daughter should not "run home to mother" with a recital of any differences of opinion—be they large or small—which may have come up between her husband and herself. Likewise, it means that the husband should never be made to feel that his wife prefers her mother's society to his or spends too much time in her parents' home to the detriment of her own. 843 Have you ever wondered why the name of mother is sometimes glorified almost to the point of adoration, while that of mother-in-law is often slurred? On such occasions as Mother's Day, some of us are almost embarrassed by the degree of sentimentality expressed, but the instances of a mother-in-law being extolled are rare. All this comes from the fact that some mothers, following the marriage of their children, fail to comprehend the scripture quoted above: "For this cause shall a man leave father and mother, and shall cleave to his wife" (Matt. 19:5). What of the commandment to "honor thy father and thy mother?" Is it less binding to the married children than heretofore? Not at all. Young people, as they leave their homes to establish homes of their own, should be even more solicitous of their parents—looking towards the time when old age will overtake them. Married couples should continue to consult with their parents on important decisions which they may have facing them, capitalizing on the wisdom which comes from experience, but, in the final analysis, they should develop the ability and gain the wisdom to direct their own lives. One wise mother said: "It may sound paradoxical but, to me, a perfect mother is one who starts from the cradle to train her child to leave the home." If a mother helps her daughter to acquire such an attitude, when the latter is married, the mother will find, to her joy, that she has not lost a daughter but has gained a son. 844 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1949 (Vork ITleeting—Sewi ng Children's Clothing (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 6—Boys' Clothing Jean Ridges Jennings For Tuesday, March 14, 1950 GOME items that would normally come under the heading of "Boys' Clothing" have been discussed in previous lessons and, since coats will be dealt with in the lesson to follow, this lesson will be confined to boys' shirts and suits for small boys. It is very practical and quite simple to make shirts for boys of all ages. Patterns can be purchased in all sizes, from the smallest to the largest. Materials of all types are available. Broadcloth is ideal for shirts and is probably the most commonly used fabric. At present, the younger boys are favoring bright flannels for school and sports. The stores are showing a large variety of spun rayon fabrics that are ideal for shirts, both for sport and dress wear. You will find it easy to please your menfolk with shirt material. In making shirts, have them roomy so that they do not bind at all. Make them long enough to stay securely tucked into trousers. Always use felled seams in constructing them. These seams are stronger, look more tailored, and stand up under repeated laundering. The more a boy's shirts are like his father's, the better he will like them. Always sew an extra strip of cloth under buttons and buttonholes. Boys give little thought to the consequences of their rough play, and too often buttons are torn right out of shirts, necessitating extensive mending. Added reinforcement under the buttons when making shirts will eliminate a lot of repair work later. And, last but not least, be very firm about sewing on buttons. In making suits for small boys, the greatest problem is with the trousers. Seats must have enough length and spread to allow room for squatting and jumping. It is necessary that they should not bind in any way. The majority of suits for small boys have a troublesome fly that is difficult to make and often looks unsightly. It is better to make suits on which the back and front button independently. Hence, it is not necessary to unbutton the front in order to drop the back. A two-button drop front is formed by having continuous plackets on either side of the front and this replaces the fly. Avoid separate belts that run through numerous straps and then buckle in a complicated manner. These only complicate a suit for a small child and we should aim to make him as independent of help as possible. LESSON DEPARTMENT Keep the basic design of all clothes alike so that the dressing process is always the same. Keep your boy smartly masculine. Frills, ruffles, and laces make him appear ridiculous. Even on_ less sturdy boys they never seem in good taste as they appear effeminate. 845 A boy cannot be distinctively dressed unless his suits are well made. Accurate cutting, followed by straight, fine, close stitching, gives a beautifully tailored look. Poorly constructed suits spend much of their time in the mending basket. Oii. | aa Literature of England Lesson 6—John Bunyan Elder Briant S. Jacobs For Tuesday March 21, 1950 RECENTLY a group of more than fifty mature young people were asked if they had ever heard of John Bunyan or The Pilgrim's Progress. Save for a delayed but correct reply from a young English girl, silence was the only answer. Now, had the question asked for Paul Bunyan, immediately the group would have been discussing Babe, Paul's Big Blue Ox, and how Paul happened to make the Great Lakes. We must not feel that Paul Bunyan is unworthy of being known, for this folk-myth of exaggeration and humor is One of America's best. However, we should agree that the best in ideas and literature is not necessarily the newest, nor that which has been written here or elsewhere since 1776, Or 1900, or since one's own birth date. While Paul Bunyan is valuable and real, compared with John Bunyan and his vigorous influence upon Christian culture for almost three hundred years, our American Bunyan myth is trivial and scanty. Really there is no basis for their being compared; here they are mentioned together because, as so often happens, the recency and newness of contemporary writing seems to have obscured and then usurped the function of great literature. Someone has wisely said, "He who remains ignorant of the past tremains a child." For any Christian generation to arise and fade away without having known The Pilgrim's Progress would be to deny the strongest unifying book throughout historical Christendom, save the Bible itself. By common consent the most powerful religious book ever composed in English, The Pilgrim's Progress was immediately successful upon publication, selling more than one hundred thousand copies in Bunyan's own lifetime. It has been translated into numerous _ languages. 'Through generations of English-speaking peoples it has been found next to the Bible, both on the bookshelf and in its readers' hearts. Its long supremacy has proved it to be one of the great imaginative 846 works of literature. Yet it might well be called more real than imagined, for two reasons: First, his realistic description of the actual details of everyday rural life are truly seen, and stated so clearly and directly that, at once, we feel at home in his world. The more important reason is that the imagined world he creates, both of the physical outside world and of the inner complexities of human spirit and emotion, so exactly parallels what we see and feel and hope and fear that, in reading Bunyan's "i aginings," we find but an ordered presentation of what we already know to be true within us and about us. As he unravels the tortured workings of the human conscience, he tells us of ourselves as we are. His spell over us is constant and complete; while the tone he attains is not always the most intense, it is never false. Only two Puntans—John Milton and John Bunyan — wrote great literature. Bunyan alone achieved literary excellence without education or training. But if Bunyan achieved literary skill, it was merely a by-product of his greater intent. Whether speaking or writing, he was primarily the preacher. He desired only that his work have spiritual strength, and consciously wrote in a plain, unadorned style. As he explains in his fiery autobiography, Grace Abounding to the Chief of Sinners, or the brief Relation of the exceeding Mercy of God in Christ to his poor Servant John Bunyan: I could have stepped into a style much higher than this in which I have here discoursed, and could have adorned all things more than here I have seemed to "imRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1949 do; but I dare not. God did not play in convincing of me... Wherefore I may not play in my relating of these experiences, but be plain and simple, and lay down the thing as it was. He that liketh it let him receive it; and he that does not, let him produce a better. In view of Bunyan's pre-determined simplicity of style, it becomes evident that his literary greatness is not achieved by writing in a flowery, "literary" manner, but by being filled with a great belief—by having something significant to say, and saying it in words which allow the magnificent power of his inner conviction to reveal itself directly and forcefully. Here, then, as in all that is memorably said, the inner spirit of the writer lends its fire to the words he writes; never is a great literary style achieved by a genuinely low or artificial personality. Not only did Bunyan refuse to consider himself as a literary man, but the literary lions of his century refused the title to him as well. In view of his most humble _background, it is not at all surprising that hasty critics, as well as those whose critical powers were not the sharpest, were unable to believe that any writing of enduring value could be produced by a fervent but uneducated preacher who made his living by mending pots and pans among the lowest levels of society. Yet such was the case. John Bunyan was born in 1628 in Elstow, a village not far from Bedford, where he spent his active life as a preacher (see map, p. 564 of text). His father was a "'mechanick," described in Grace Abounding as "being of that rank that is meanest, and most despised of all the families LESSON DEPARTMENT in the land." Young John was sent to school where he learned to read and write, but he "did soon lose that little I learnt, even most utterly."" At age ten he so despaired of ever attaining heaven that: I should often wish, either that there had been no hell, or that I had been a devil;... That if it must needs be, that I went thither, I might be rather a tormentor, than be tormented myself. The month he turned sixteen he was drafted into the Parliamentary Army. After he served three years, he married, he and his wife coming together "as poor as poor might be (not having so much household stuff as a dish or spoon betwixt us both)." However she did own some holy books, and soon they began reading them together. After much soulsearching and mental torture, he turned from his self-defined evils (cursing, swearing, lying, dancing, and churchbell nnging) to become a preacher and a constant student of the Bible, writing with evident truth, "I was never out of the Bible, either by reading or meditation." In 1656 he wrote his first tract. To defend the scripture against the inner-light doctrines of the Quakers; before his death he wrote more than sixty books, most of them concerned with bitter religious controversy. Soon after the Restoration in 1660, the Church of England influenced Charles II to pass the Conventicle Act, which forbade any church services or doctrines to be used other than those of the State church. Bunyan refused to deny his beliefs, and was thrown into Bedford jail, where he remained for twelve years. He was released in 1672 and 847 preached three years, when the King changed his mind and Bunyan was again imprisoned, this time for six months. For us these might well have been fortunate confinements, since during the sixth year of his first prison term he wrote his revealing autobiography, Grace Abounding. His masterpiece, The Pilgrim's Progress, was written during his sixmonth imprisonment of 1675-1676. He spent the remaining years of his life preaching and writing until his death in 1688. If we are tempted to make the snap judgment that Bunyan was too great a soul to suffer deeply from the anguish of prison life, we must recall the statement that separation from his family was "pulling the flesh from my bones.'"' Nevertheless, he refused to admit defeat physically or spiritually, and rose above boredom and uselessness by writing one of the great spiritual histories in Grace Abounding (1666), an important forerunner of the modern psychological novel. His autobiography tells of his childhood sins, the terror with which he feared not being saved, his gradual awakening to the true joy of the religious life, and his final 'temptations and triumph, climaxed by his answering the call to the ministry in Bedford. With ruthless honesty he lays bare his inner consciousness, revealing his selftorturing doubts and his fervent sincerity. From the very first lines of the book the beautiful cadence and concise simplicity of his prose: tell us that we are in the hands of a master of the language: In this my relation of the merciful working of God upon my soul, it will not be 848 amiss, if, in the first place, I do, in a few words, give you a hint of my pedigree, and manner of bringing up; that thereby the goodness and bounty of God towards me, may be the more advanced and magnified before the sons of men. Wherefore I have not here, as others, to boast of noble blood, or of a highborn state, according to the flesh; though all things considered, I magnify the heavenly Majesty, for that by this door he brought me into this world, to partake of the grace of life that is in Christ by the Gospel. Such lines immediately achieve a tone and texture at once familiar to us, for they possess the pure simplicity as well as the nobility of Bunyan's supreme model: the English Bible. Over a period of years he had so completely digested the Bible that it seemed to govern not only the material of his thoughts, but also the very arrangement of the pattern in which his thoughts were expressed. Once we pick out such passages as the following, at once their truth and the excellence of their statement set them apart: In these days the thoughts of religion were very grievous to me. I could neither endure it myself, nor that any other should.... Yet this I well remember, that though I could myself sin with the greatest delight and ease... Yet even then, if I had at any time seen wicked things, by those who professed goodness, it would make my spirit tremble. After much soul-searching and many feelings of guilt, Bunyan finally convinced himself that God did love him: Yes, I was now so taken with the love and mercy of God, that I remember I could not tell how to contain till I got home. I thought I could have spoken of his love, and have told of his mercy to me, even to the very crows that sat RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1949 upon the ploughed lands before me. But alas! Within less than forty days I began to question all again; and by times, fell to my old courses again; which made me begin to question all still. Thus, in his strong, simple words of self-revelation, Bunyan presents to us the fears and joys which have bound traditional Christianity together. After reading of such hortible self-torture, how grateful we should be for our saving doctrines. We have now seen that Bunyan can tell a story with skill, that he sees with precise keenness and can describe what he sees. Possessed thus with natural literary gifts, Bunyan was ready to be fired with the affirmative joy of his convictions in writing his great allegory of the Christian life, The Pilgrim's Progress from This World to That Which Is to Come. The Pilgrim's Progress Allegorical writing represents abstract qualities such as love, hate, faith, doubt, acting and speaking like persons. Bunyan's characters are not actual people, but qualities or abstractions. For example, consider Christian, the oppressed hero of the story who forsakes family and worldly goods to brave terrors and temptations until he achieves eternal life. Christian represents all Christianity. While Bunyan's characters talk and act and are like people of his world (and hence our own), they are the quality which they are named, and hence represent that quality in all people. And how much we learn of his characters, and of Bunyan's seeing eye and sly humor, merely from their names. Perhaps most famous because so true is "Vanity Fair," or Bunyan's de- LESSON DEPARTMENT scription of the world as it is (read text, pp. 710-711). Or note the names of the jurors in "Vanity Fair" who condemn Faithful to death, and how their character is echoed in their speech: Mr. Blind-man, the foreman, said, I see clearly that this man is an heretic. Then said Mr. No-good, Away with such a fellow from the earth. Aye, said Mr. Malice, for I hate the very looks of him. Then said Mr, Love-lust, I could never endure him. Nor T, said Mr. Live-loose, for he would always be condemning my way. Hang him, hang him, said Mr. Heady. A sorry scrub, said Mr. High-mind. My heart riseth against him, said Mr. Enmity. He is a Togue, said Mr. Liar. Hanging is too good for him, said Mr. Cruelty. Let's dispatch him out of the Way, said Mr. Hate-light. Synopsis of the Pilgrim's Progress The author begins by saying he dreamed a dream, and in the dream he saw a man clothed in rags with a book in his hand and a burden on his back. In mental anguish the man inquired of the Evangelist, "What shall I do to be saved?" The Evangelist advised Christian (for that was the man's name) to flee the City of Destruction and make for the City of Zion. "Keep yonder light in your eye and go to the Gate, where it shall be told thee what to do." After almost sinking in the Slough of Despond, Christian was rescued by Help and approached the Gate, Over which was written, "Knock and it shall be opened unto you." The Gate was opened by Goodwill and Christian told him of the perils encountered while seeking to be rid of his burden. Goodwill advised, "Be content to wear it until thou come to the place of deliverance, for there it will fall off of itself" The Pilgrim (Christian) was given a guide and a blessing and started on his way to the Celestial City. The highway was fenced on either side with a wall called Salvation. Up this way Christian walked till the toad ended on an elevation where stood a cross, and a little below, in the bottom, a sepulcher. As he came up to the cross his burden loosened from his back and 849 fell into the sepulcher and was seen no more. Here Christian was given a change of raiment and a roll to read as he went, with instructions to present it at the Celestial City. In the Valley of Humiliation Christian was confronted by the fiend, Apollyon and a dreadful battle ensued, in which Christian was finally victorious. From thence he traveled on to the Valley of the Shadow of Death. Here the pathway was exceedingly narrow, on one hand a very deep ditch and on the other a dangerous quag. Darkness also prevailed. After traveling disconsolately for sometime, Christian thought he heard a man. Say, "Though I walk through the Valley of the Shadow of Death, I will fear no evil, for Thou art with me." Then he was glad and morning broke. Faithful, Christian's friend, had followed, and together they entered Vanity Fair, where they were thrown into jail. Faithful was burned at the stake but Christian was released and continued on with Hopeful, another follower. At Doubting Castle they were again taken prisoners by the Giant Despair and when all seemed lost, Christian and Hopeful prayed and they were able to escape. As they approached the Delectable Mountains, they were welcomed by the shepherds, Knowledge, Experience, Watchful, and Sincere, who gave them good counsel and led them to the top of the hill called Clear, where they could see the gates of the Celestial City. After passing through the country of Deceit they traveled to the land called Enchanted Ground, where they had a distant view of the City of Zion, in all its glory. But between them and the City ran the River of Death, which they must cross. There was no bridge over it so they had to go through the waters.. After entering, Christian began to sink but Hopeful cheered him on continually and they finally reached the other side. The City stood on a mighty hill but they climbed with ease, for two Shining Ones led them. Their mortal garments had been left behind in the flood. As they entered in at the Gate, after presenting their certificates, they were transfigured and given raiment that shone like gold, while they heard, "Enter ye Into the joy of your Lord." 850 The second part of this great work tells how Christian's wife Christiana, also reached the Celestial City. Despite the rich satire throughout the book, despite his beautiful use of Biblical landscape and imagery, and despite his ability to make our senses acutely aware of smells and sights and ideas, The Pilgrim's Progress, Part I, is most grim. Throughout all our consciences rings Christian's wail, "What shall I do to be saved?" (text, pp. 706-707). The fight with Apollyon (text, pp. 707-710), powerful narration that it is, is far too near Our Own constant battle with the forces of darkness for it to be read lightly and with comfort. Even though Bunyan allows us to intrude into Giant Despair's bedroom in the small hours of the night to hear the Giant being counseled by his wife Diffidence about the affairs of the day—even though we enjoy this homey touch in him, Giant is brutal, and the episode is read with loathing and a sinking heart (text, pp. 711-714). Yet when we read of the Celestial City (text, pp. 714-718) and _particularly of the slower, more majestic account of the pilgrims crossing the river of death to enter the beautiful city as recorded at the conclusion of the milder, more tolerRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1949 ant Part II, we know full well that all struggle and pain were well worth such a goal; we know as well that when Bunyan says of the Eternal City, as he says of everything in the book, "And I saw in my dream—" he saw that which was more real and living than anything this world can offer. Truly, such a conclusion alone is worthy of the book which nghtfully has come to be known as the Great Protestant Allegory, and one of the monumental imaginative and spiritual works of all time. Note to teachers: Encouragement should be given the sisters to read The Pilgrim's Progress for themselves. Questions 1. Did John Bunyan consider himself a writer or a preacher? 2. What was his attitude toward being "literary"? 3. If Bunyan intentionally avoided a "literary," ornamental style of writing, what then is the source of power in his writings? 4. What are Bunyan's two most important books? Discuss what to you seems best in each work. 5. Why is The Pilgrim's Progress called an allegory? 6. Are Bunyan's characters real to you? 7. Discuss the influence of the Bible upon Bunyan's writings. 8. Is Bunyan's final importance spiritual or literary? Substitute Thelma Ireland Frost has paralyzed the lake waves; They lap on the beach no more, But December brought a blizzard; I have snow waves on the shore. Social Science—Latter-day Saint Political Thought Lesson 5—The Obligations of Citizenship and the Responsibility of the State—(D. & C. 134:5, 6, 7, 8) Elder G. Homer Durham For Tuesday, March 28, 1950 Objective: To show the responsibility of the State to enact proper laws and of the people to uphold them. Relation of the Individual to Types of Government HE tise in Communism, Fascism, and various types of totalitarian States has emphasized the problem that modern man has in adjusting the needs of his personal life to that of the group. In Communist countries, men must bow to the will of the State as interpreted by its Communist rulers. In Communism, as in other dictatorships, the highest good and, therefore, the noblest obligation of citizenship (if it can be called noble), is to follow "the party line' and obey accordingly the leaders of the State. The same doctrine in one form or another characterizes all totalitarian States. What are the obligations of citizenship? Must men always, blindly, obey? What are the responsibilities of the State to its citizens? Here are two fundamental questions the nature of which permeates headlines in the daily newspaper. The Declaration of Belief Regarding Government and Laws charts a certain, clear course as to what the answers to these questions should be. Upholding Just Governments Should) men always obey State? The Should they obey every law? The Declaration answers (verse five): We believe that all men are bound to sustain and uphold the respective governments in which they reside, while protected in their inherent and inalienable rights by the laws of such governments; and that sedition and rebellion are unbecoming every citizen thus protected, and should be punished accordingly; and that all governments have a right to enact such laws as in their own judgments are best calculated to secure the public interest; at the same time, however, holding sacred the freedom of conscience. When should men obey the State? Should men obey every State? 'The answer is clear. All men, everywhere, should support the government in which they reside so long as they are protected in their fundamental rights. Perhaps the most fundamental right is that of free agency. And the free agency of man expresses itself most fundamentally in freedom of conscience, particularly religious freedom. Have governments the right to enact any law they see fit? The answer is definitely "no". Government has the right to enact laws. But only such laws, says the Declaration, as "are best calculated to secure the public interest; at the same time, however, Page 85] RELIEF SOCIETy MAGAZINE_DECEMpEp 1949 holding Sacted the freedom of Consuch, being Placed for he protec. Science," AY law passe by any tion of th lnocent a the punish. Sovernment at an time, therefore, ment of the guilty; and that to th Must meet two tests. These ests Jaws all men OWe respect and de ae: (1) Does it meet the Public CTeNce, as Without interest? ( 2) Does it Tespect free b om of Conscience? It is j i: for the Xpress pur POse of Tegulating Our Interests as Nal interest." This individual, Means in the World of Internationa] di Iculties; whic Must be broader than Selfish National; IC € public Interest May quite 7; N verse six Is the docTule of law, Which " Tespect for "eve t Individual It is significant that Y best be tested, to one of the tasks of Tulers js Pointed out to (1) to public e Innocent, and (2) Punish the € test of freedom of suilty—undey the rule of law. Conscience, 'TF is j SUPPose an Protection of Li P; professes oh. F consej CIS seven fol] ce to traffic. Courts and Or, like th € of the funda. Mental, jf not the €Ise six States ci Well as the inheritance ot English liberty. V, Ored in his € belj Magistrates a, LESSON DEPARTMENT life fox thousands @) Jesus Pinion for Seditious Ppurthe The Communists In RELIEF SOCIETy MAGAZINE_DECEM pep 1949 ment,' C Meaning of this seems Questions for Discuss; pettectly Clear, At a first Teadi 1 ading, verse eight might Suggest the theory of Punishmee Seen Menbet@, jp Ound in Gilbert ad "4 Sullivan's Ordinances fe) Operetta, The Mikado, F "let the Punishment does the Ould men Obey the law as C of the State and Sovernment? 2. When men qj dency Of the 1 When ' distinction IS possible be. TWeen "public Interest" and | same Ime, the Interest?" Clear that tendenc; 9. What Should he How Latter-day Sai t attitude of aints be towards | US€ ment? (Wha | 1 800d laws against good laws ° punishment." What are the tests of 4 800d Jaw? of hard 8 they had fit; and the RELIEF SOCIETy MAGAZINE_DECEMBEp 1949 years of age, commenced to herd €came gq member of the Stake presj. Sheep and do other fa labor, At dency, Jp 1907 he was Called to be the age of Sixteen he Jef} home, ang Presiding Bishop of the Church, Went to Brig City where he se. € had y ached the time when he Cured €Mployment In a Mercantile Could haye Tetired and spent a life firm and had his first taste of 5 lof dleness d €ase, or Could have Ness life en twent years of used his 4CCumulate Wealth to haye 4g€ he serve ad short-term Mission ecome one of the great financial] to the Eas cm States 4 d then ep POwers of Western America But Laged in Tailroad Clerical] wom for jin Placed his call to Service above S€veral years In 1877, he Was called cither of th € choices nd, at great On a mission } ngland Where he Persona] ancia] Sacrifice, he deServed for More than two Cars, It voted the Temai Was while on this mission that he be. Rame intima € 1 Or eighteen years he served the, "auth who T called hurch as Presiding Bishop, bring. Him to the Position of p Tesidin Ing to that Office g Temarkable ef Bishop, Iclency, He *COlganized the thing Returning from this Ission he System of Church, Calling for rommenced a Career in the field ayments in Cash rather than com. Business lS TIS€ to fame d forOdities, j Keeping with the Chang. "ne during the thirty yeats ing conomic Condition. Aaronic was the result of his Tugged con. Priesthoog and ward teaching work stitution, his uncanny sense Of see. More fully Organized to TOIng °PPOrtunities for velopment ld€ greater S€Ivice to th Unseen by her me | ar C members _ OF the Church and for th and long. He engaged in the lumber; Participated jn these ACtiIVities Great and er ctficiency Was inOperTOduced throughout the entire f. N that area, developed ancia] Mnistration Of the C Deet sug Indus "Y ln Eastern Church, He Worked hand In hand Tegon and stern Ida > and with President Joseph F mith jn Was one of OVINE spirits ho this 'gard, and it as during his fathered the colon; ation of the ad 'Mstration that he Churc} Tand e ley in Oregon ame to be financially Independent. And the Steat Payette Valley in IdaUng these years he traveled ho, gteat dea] throughout the United Elder Nibley, with his Multitud}- States, to Europe, and to awali 70Us business Interests never forwith President Smith, No man, 80t the hu Or its MEssage Of save the Tesident of the Church Testoration that hag b Tesponhad greater understanding Of the sible for bringing his Patents to MANY activities Of the Church than mMerica, He Was alway active in did Bis Op Nibley, either Sy day Schoo] or Priesthood lthough "eventysix years of age Work and) in *9°1 when the Unio When called to be Stake Was Organized lm Oregon, }; Pre LESSON DEPARTMENT body and mind, possessed of a powerful testimony of the restored gospel, and respected by a multitude of people in many parts of America. To the Presidency he also brought Nibley likewise fostered the acquisition of some of the historic landmarks connected with the early history of the Church in New England and New York. Joshua Reuben Clark, Jr. December 11, 1931, President Nibley died and, in his place, Presjdent Grant chose Elder Joshua Reuben Clark, Jt. At the time of his selection to this office, President Clark was not too well-known to the membership of the Church. For thirty years he had lived away from Utah, most of the time residing in New York, Washington, D. C., and Mexico. While not too well-known in his native Utah, few members farm. He knew what hard Physical labor was, as he did farm work and In 1898, he was graduated Utah, hayNg majored in scientific work. For five years he taught school or 4s principal in Heber City, Cedar City, and Salt Lake City. His "ver-€ager mind searched for greater fields of activity and the Study of law appealed to him. Although he was thirty-two years of age, was marned, and had two children, with nothing of this world's goods except $300, he moved to New York with his family and entered the Jaw school of Columbia University. His professors recognized in him at once 4 man of unusual gifts, He Possessed One of the most brilliant minds and greatest capacities for difficult work that they had ever seen. As a consehe found employment as international Jaw and Government jn settling foreign claims and untangling knotty international Problems. At the State as_ the International Conference and problems Connected with the Versailles Treaty, about which he had become one of the foremost authorities, Various published books were compiled, edited, or written by President Clark deal- 858 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1949 ing with problems of international law. He was assigned to work on problems dealing with Latin-American matters and became so _ proficient in this field that Ambassador Dwight W. Morrow took him to Mexico as his legal advisor during a time of great stress in regard to United States interests in Mexico. On Brother Clark's return, he was appointed Under Secretary of State by President Coolidge. So ably had he worked and won the confidence and respect of the Mexican officials when he was aiding Ambassador Morrow that, when Ambassador Morrow resigned his post after election to the United States Senate in 1930, President Clark was appointed ambassador in his stead. It was from this post of honor and respect that President Grant called him to be his second counselor in April oe During the years that President Clark had resided away from Utah not only had he studied international law, but he had studied the scriptures and the gospel. His sermons are models of eloquence and contain spiritual messages of great worth. He has the unusual ability to state in a few words the vital part of his message. He speaks with great conviction and his sermons and admonitions are the summary of serious thinking about the Church and world problems. Many of his sermons are prophetic in nature, and some, such as his tribute to the pioneers (Io Them of the Last Wagon, which is the classic description of this great migration of the Latterday Saints,) are poetic in form. His radio addresses and writings on the New Testament message are_brilliant studies reflecting his profound scholarship. One of President Clark's greatest characteristics is his uncompromising honesty. The statement, "face the facts," is one of his oftrepeated phrases. He does just that himself, whether he is dealing with a problem of law, a problem of the Church, a problem of scripture, or a problem of life. To President Grant's administration he brought these great gifts of understanding, faith in the restored gospel, a strong robust physique, and a discriminating intellect. He was devoted to President Grant and did all he could to assist the President during his declining years. David Oman McKay On September 23, 1934, President Anthony W. Ivins, eighty-two years of age, passed from mortality. J. Reuben Clark, Jr., was then advanced to the position of first counselor, and the council of the First Presidency was completed with the appointment of David O. McKay. Elder McKay had been a member of the Council of the Twelve since 1906, and was well known throughout the length and breadth of the Church. The McKay home was at Huntsville, Utah, and here David was born on September 8, 1873. He learned the nature and value of physical toil on the farm and it impressed him so that to this day he and his brothers and sisters possess ownership of the old farm home, and take a deep interest in its many functions. President McKay is a great lover of horses, and his greatest delight is to get back to the farm and to his the Holy Land, circumnavigating the globe, and traveling g distance 62,500 miles, During this trip, on January g, 1921, he dedicated the land of China for the Preaching of e 5 Guide Us, 0 Thou Great Jehovah | over which he Presided. As a memPraise to the Lord ber of the F Itst Presidency, Presiret of eee ae 7 dent McKa bly assisted President orship the Kin Tant to the en Of his life, and has ighty me ~~ been an Ispiration to all those with Now "Titan We Alt Ot ne as whom he 4ssociates, tft Thine Eyes DAYNES Music CO., 47 South Main 1. What would MOtivate a TMan to sacr Salt Lake City 1, Uta fice Worldly wealth and the Possibility Please seng Postpaid: of untold financia] Power, as President G Choir Album MM861 @ ape — Nibley did when called to be Presidin ML2077" @t00"e, on Nong Playing "a Bishop, and later a member of the In Utah, add 2% tax to above prices. First Presidency? Ee 2. Enumerate some of the outstandin ualities of character Ossessed h Sop ae Bren dene os Clark is y SITY and STATE - 3- Read one of President Clark's recent FIRST Of ALL — RevaBrpry conference setmons and Present a sum -D mary of its vita] Message 45.47 SOurH 4 LESSON DEPARTMENT 86] Tesidency are, to Joanna said, "That Was the hard. Maintain such tine of, 18 Manifested est thing I eye, did," In the administratior, of the Church? "J canna?" References She Teached blindly in her bag Jenson, An drew, Ls Biographicat for a handkerc lef. "T haven'; been Encyclopedia SO Wonderful] "7 Ht you only knew provement Era, 33480, 481, 35: For long time I got completely ff 131, 132, 389-391; 36:416-417. 367643. Tne Taek ) went around thinkin 646. I was doing everything by myself ee ee It's §00d, not to be lost." a know," Kent Said. He looked Joanna 4Dout him. "Multitudes multj- (Continued from Page 831) tudes Mm the Val 'Y Of Decision -, face, "Dye thought abo t you day Joanna It would 4maze you to know and night for months, | _ "specially how many people are In hat Valley, "nce T saw David I wanted to see Nght now, "So ething eaching out you tel] you how wonderfy] to all of us, making US Wonder and you are, and how rig and think, and ye Ist look at yo and be glad that Kent TM 80 glad you are you ate the kind of Person you are" home. - "Kent, you're sO wrong." May Stay? Always? € took her and looked Alwa Own on it. " Wish ng _ - (The End) Pm glad you haven't seen the chij- TM, ~~. Dren T've 'seen *- + the lost ang the i lonely and the terrified, I'm glad you haven't had to know the man women J'ye Met an TI saw half-staryeg youngster, | thought of y the first day J ou and met you, the Way your * lichen shone and the Sweet smel] COMMERC | A, of bread, baking. | Was selfish and AND EDITION Without howledge hen J ent PRINTERS AND away, | Ought you Should have BOOK BINDERS dropped Cverything ° come with PAPER RULING me. But ve Met so Many girls Penny's "+ and I guess ly gotten doy on my knees more than once ] N simple Slatitude thay I knew someone like you." c=. 862 some environmen Slonary ganization, You will Teceiy business training unde Structo ut y ° advantages Offered you, You can study Gnd learn in q WholeAll Missionaries will Enjoy the friend. I d Ship an Wtivities oF the returned misJUST " Metiey Order Enclosed ' Check Enclosed Send Co. Dn. Ae) Mormon Hymn COLUMBIA's REC Of the e"' and "Guide Us, O Thou 9MAIL THIS COUPON Name "Sete ee "adage State __ "=a ZA USIC N—4-65) 8 RIVED ORDING = ~G@. "Be Ba CO. Have Pudding bobbing In its ba _roduce a song, low-pitched and sweet; ere peace on carth, good wil] to men In heavenly Paeans rise. Cross the hills of Galilee, Tankincense and gold, So I would hang the holly high? Srom Near and Sar May the Lord bless you and your wonderful Magazine which had much to do with my joining the Church. —Mrs. Betty Butler, Redding, California It is gratifying to know that wherever one goes in this vast universe The Relief Society Magazine can be yours for just a subscription. On this beautiful island of Guam there is a very active group of Latter-day Saints. It was a pleasant surprise to find several women in the group, which led to a desire for Relief Society work. While the men attend Priesthood meetings the women enjoy the fullness of the splendid Relief Society lessons. Indeed we feel blessed, although so far away, and yet so near, through the pages of the Magazine. —Rea Jorgensen, Guam, Mariana Islands Please find enclosed a check for the subscription price of the Magazine. I don't want to miss a single issue. I especially enjoy the poetry, which is, I think, of a very high class. I also like the lesson material and wish every member would read the lessons before going to class. —Amy F. Armstrong, Phoenix, Arizona I enjoy the Magazine very much and don't want to miss a single copy. I am a convert from Hayward, Wisconsin. I was baptized July 21, 1945, and moved to Nephi, April 24, 1946. I enjoy the West very much. My mother is secretary of a little branch in Hayward. 'They have mostly Indian members. —Doris A. Hanson, Nephi, Utah The Relief Society Magazine is very sad. Many times I have come home from work and found my wife weeping after having read the Magazine. I couldn't believe it was that sad until I read it myself from cover to cover, and then I started to cry. The poetry is especially somber. Doesn't anyone know anything funny to write about? —A Bishop, Salt Lake City, Utah Page 864 It seems to me that I should apprise you of the delight we have received from the series of articles on 'Table Decorations (by Mary Grant Judd, Apnl to December, 1949) appearing currently in The Relief Society Magazine. What you did with vegetables is incredible! 'These writings have shown a fine resourcefulness and originality. Sister Glade, my daughters, and I, have certainly appreciated them. —Mayor Earl J. Glade, Salt Lake City, Utah Most non-Latter-day Saint people with whom I visited were very friendly regarding Relief Society work. At one place I hesitated to enter the home because I knew the husband was there (his car was outside). He was a man owning a number of herds of sheep, ranging them both here and in Arizona. But I offered a prayer in secret and knocked on the door. I was met in a friendly way and, without hesitation, presented my message and handed him and his wife copies of the Magazine to look through. The husband exclaimed: "The Relief Society! Oh, yes, that's an organization which does a lot of good. Yes, we want to subscribe to the Magazine." He told me that he liked to read so well that he would spend all his spare time reading if his eyes would let him. Some months later this man passed away, and it has been a pleasant memory for me in connection with his passing that the last words I heard him speak were these regarding the Magazine. —N. Florence Hanny, Firth, Idaho The Relief Society Magazine is a source of enjoyment and its reading is indeed grand. I do look forward to it. The lessons are just wonderful, especially the last couple of years until we had our branch organized, for it helped to keep me in touch with the Church and learn of its teachings. The missionaries are also enjoying its contents when they come to visit me. 'Thank you ever so much. —Mrs. William Manley, Plymouth, England PLENTIFUL NOW— Jesus, The Christ By JAMES E. TALMAGE Textbook for the study of the Life of Christ oS de The Life of Christ In Pictures: —four sets of beautiful, large, 18" x 22" colored pictures— SET I—The birth, early life and ministry, including seven miracles. SET II—Five miracles, eight parables, and three major events. SET I1I—16 pictures from the selection of the Twelve to the Transfiguration. SET IV—16 pictures from the triumphal entry to the Ascension, including the Passion week events. $00 prs DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City 10, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine U. S. POSTAGE 2¢ Paid SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH PERMIT No. 690 George Albert Smith, Pres.
