[Vol11 | October 1924 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Article | Title: The Widow's Girls Elizabeth Cannon Porter]

The Widow's Girls
By Elizabeth Cannon Porter
"I don't see why we should spend the money for a dress when you may need it for medicine," said Virginia as she carried out her mother's malted milk glass.
"You'll have to get it. If you're going to 'carry on' you must be equipped for it. And while you're getting the gown, Virginia, get a good one. A cheap thing always shows what it is," she added petulantly.
Virginia gave another look at her limp messaline that she had been trying to "freshen." It had gone through this process so often that it was palpably in rags. So she glanced over the paper for sales and betook herself down town.
Mrs. Tracy lay ill. The gallant little widow had raised her three girls, Virginia, Marilyn and Dorothea, by teaching music. A southerner by birth, she had never seemed to have a struggle, because she emulated the appearance of affluence. She had received her pupils in black satin and point lace, and served luncheon to visitors in a rose embowered sun parlor. Even the shabby tapestries of the living room exuded an atmosphere of luxury. Poor they were, but with the gaiety of Montmartre. Perhaps it was her French grandmother, who made their life seem one of culture rather than a palpable sham. The placing of a picture, the arrangement of light, the open fire in the grate of a chilly night, the gloss on the old china, the garden setting of the house itself, attained the things that wealth itself brings.
On her husband's death she had been left the poorest in a family of self-centered people. Looking at her three plump little girls she had fiercely determined that they should have as good a chance as the children with fathers. Constant vigilance is the price of success with children. Their growth must be built on real things?good food, fresh air, proper medical attention, and education. She set out to wrest these from the world, and she had done well. She had accepted her relatives' cast-off clothes and had made them over for her children with such a deft touch that they looked better than the originals. She had cultivated the people who could help them. She had used so much tact that no one seeing this gracious middle-aged woman suspected the grim courage, underneath, that actuated her. Poverty is an insidious foe that daily collects its toll until it destroys. She had won. Her daughters, budding into womanhood, were just as beautiful, well-mannered, and intelligent as if they had been reared in homes of wealth.
THE WIDOW'S GIRLS 525
Then the mother was taken ill. The little home was like a ship without its captain. It caught them unawares; Virginia finishing business college, Marilyn studying millinery, Dorothea in high school.
"The way to help me," said Cora Tracey, propped up on her pillows, "is to help yourselves. Get on in the world, be somebody. That's what every parent wants of her children."
So Virginia had capitalized their knowledge of music. She and her younger sister had organized an orchestra and had gone around to the country district playing at the dances. The irrepressible Dorothea who had insisted on learning to play the saxophone, was now encouraged in it. Virginia played the piano and Marilyn the violin. Music had been the little mother's business and the girls had grown up with it. So, through the long-drawn-out illness, they had kept things going.
They were to make their city debut that night in late summer at the ball of the Arnolds. The Tracy girls' orchestra had been asked to play. It humiliated the mother that her girls should go as paid musicians to a place where they should have gone as invited guests. She wanted them to make a good appearance.
The new gown was apricot taffeta, but the extravagance of it spoiled it for Virginia as she donned it that night, though it transformed her like Cinderella. It matched well Marilyn's old gold and Dorothea's canary. The sick woman heaved a contented sigh when she saw them depart with their instruments.
The Arnold's was impressive with flags and potted palms. Even the ices and candies carried out the artistic color scheme. The night was hot but the youthful musicians kept indefatigably at their task. Ralph Dane drifted by with his partners but usually stopped in the vicinity of the musician's stand, finally he stayed there altogether and turned the music for Virginia. He looked down with ardent eyes on the brown coronet of her hair, the curve of her throat, the slim, firm arms that thumped the piano.
When Virginia took a glass of water in to her mother that night she said shyly. "Ralph Dane invited me to go out with him to inspect his father's mills."
"He's a nice boy," approved her mother. "Oh, Virginia, if you will just get on yourselves and be somebody in the world, I will feel repaid for everything," she said with a sigh.
Grandma?Poor Soul