[Vol11 | October 1924 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Frontispiece | Title: Elizabeth Claridge McCune Frontispiece]

ELIZABETH CLARIDGE McCUNE THE 7 Relief Society Magazine Vol, XI - -.. =.:. OCTOBER, 1924... No. 10 Elizabeth Claridge McCune A CHARACTER SKETCH.

By.

Augusta W.. Grant.

This tribute to my friend, this intimate portrayal of her character, is not my personal view alone, but in the building of it are combined the tributes called forth by the personal appeal her life has made to friends far and near, from the head of the Church down, and from her family.

That her character was many-sided is shown by the responses made to the question, What to you was the outstanding characterie. ? of Sister McCune?

These are some of the things contribute " er as to ne iiion and family.

Her generosity.

Her sincerity, whole-heartedness.

Her humility.

Her justice.

The simplicity of her life.

Her unselfishness, cheerfulness, optimism.

Her self-sacrifice.

Her industry and frugality.

Her strength of character, independence.

Her will to do the right.

I. Undoubtedly the greatest thing in her life, that colored her whole existence, the thing that was life to her, was the gospel.

There was no room in her soul for the slightest quiver of doubt as to its divinity and her ultimate destiny.

She was loyal to her family, and especially for her husband did she always express the most devoted love and loyalty.

Much can be said of her generosity in big things, as shown by one gift to the Church of her palatial home to be known as the McCune school of Music and Art; her support of missionaries 
 in.

The field; her numerous private charities and contributions, ? and last of all the bequest of $100.000 to the Church, to her rela-. Tives, and to her dear old-time friends.

In all these things her husband's influence must be counted, as it was through his hearty co-operation and liberality that she was able to do so much.

But there was seemingly a contradictory trait in her character that it was hard for some to understand, that was that they might call her unnecessarilyeconomizing, but always on herself, be it remembered.. _ She seemed to take absolutely no pleasure in arraying herself in jewels and fine rainment, of which she might have had an unlimited supply, but rather she inclined to the other extreme, and we saw her usually in the plainest and most unpretentious things.

I think this may have been due in great measure to her innate delicacy of feeling in not wanting to outdo her friends and associates, most of whom were not so favored by fortune.

Her husband has said that the greatest fault he could find with her was that she would not spend freely enough what he so lavishly bestowed upon her.

Few husbands have this fault to complain of. 7 But the strenuous experiences, the rigid economy made necessary in her early pioneer life had so ingrained in her very being the principle of frugality that she could not tolerate the idea of spending for what she considered the extravagances of life.

Although in later life her "lines were cast in pleasant places," while she had all the advantages of extensive travel and sojourn.

In many lands, with the enjoyment of rare and beautiful things? she might have lived a life of idle luxury if she had so elected? but always her heart turned toward the homeland, to her Church and to her people.

She loved the plain and common folk, the simple life; she loved to labor where the results would be for good, in the temple, among the people where she could minister as the humblest and most earnest Relief Society worker.

It has been said that she was an artist and an architect.

She did love to plan and build and furnish a home, and she had many opportunities of exercising her creative powers along this line, from the adobe house she assisted her father in building to the humble cottage her husband took her to first, and gradually to something more pretentious until the acme of elegance and beauty was attained in the mansion that is now a monument to her name.

The McCune school of Music and Art is an appropriate name for this institution as it will foster not only music alone, but all the arts, and two beautiful and costly pieces of sculpture that were presented with the house, Cleopatra and the blind Nydia,
will form a nucleus around which our home artists may gather
and add their own worthy products. The Church is already in
possession of a number of these fine works.
But she longed for something simpler, more in accordance
with the way she wished to spend her life. She disliked the corps
of servants and really preferred to perform in her own home
many duties that might have been delegated to others. She loved
birds and flowers and all artistic things; she enjoyed serving a
meal in the dainty and attractive way that was hers, and her house
was immaculate always.
It was a pleasure to share her hospitality, and she seemed to
enjoy entertaining her friends in her whole-hearted way.
And now her last effort in home-building stands just completed
a pathetic reminder of our friend, a modest, attractive,
small home, on a hill commanding a most beautiful view of the
city, among her own people, and near the temple and the work
she loved.
I see her now as she moved among us all her life, cheerful,
helpful, optimistic always lively, good company, attracting all
by her cheerful good nature, a leader, though not aggressive.
Her friends were chosen not for position or prestige, but for
the qualities she recognized in them that she stood for herself,
and her friendship once given meant that she was loyal and true
to that friendship always.
One of her leading traits was her ever-present sense of humor.
If anything funny ever hapened it always seemed to happen to
Sister McCune. She could see the humorous side of any situation.
She was one of the best story-tellers; no good point of a
story was ever lost by her repeating it. She was a great mimic,
a natural actress, and used to shine in the amateur theatricals of
pioneer days.
She had some thrilling experiences, too, in her trips connected
with her work on the General Boards, but nothing could daunt
her courage and determination to perform her duty, night-rides
on lonely roads, sitting up half the night waiting for trains, inconveniences,
discomforts of all kinds, were counted as nothing,
and her reports always came in tinged by the little sidelights of
humor that she always found in everything.
This life was given to us for the purpose of gaining experience
and certainly in the case of our friend this purpose was
fully realized. The scope of her life was broad and its opportunities
many, and that she responded to them worthily and fully
is shown by the tributes offered her by those who knew her best.