[Vol11 | October 1924 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Why There Should be More Influence
of Women in Our Legislature | Author: Dr. Hugh Woodward]

Why There Should be More Influence
of Women in Our Legislature
Dr. Hugh Woodward, Brigham Young University
Because of certain developments that have taken place in
modern civilization, society is being deprived of a very important
type of thinking and feeling which is and has been essential to
the development of man. Somebody is being deprived of this influence
not! so much because it is the desire of anyone, but because
of c ertain specific habits of mind which have been developed.
The type of thinking in question is that which has been carried
on largely by the women of the world — an interest in humanistic
values as contrasted with property values. In the early part of
the race, a natural division of labor grew up between men and
women. The home was not very well organized, family conditions
were not as stable as they were later on, the care of the offspring
naturally fell upon the mothers, rather than upon the
fathers. As fatherhood became a branch of motherhood, man
concerned himself with protecting the home from invasion and
other destroying influences. Later on, as society developed, man
naturally became interested in property and in property rights,
while the home was the institution primarily concerned with the
welfare of the child. Woman became the guardian of these humanistic
interests and man became the guardian of property and
protective interests. The child's education, its moral and religious
teaching was cared for largely by the mother. She was concerned
about its health, its play, its recreation, its food, etc. The man
interested himself in lands, flocks herds and property rights.
When governments were established they were established to take
care of these property rights, and not the humanistic rights.
Down until the beginning of our own democracy, no government
interested itself in education, health, recreation, morals, or character.
It h as been estimated a number of times by the legal profession
and other competent judges, that ninety- five per cent of
all legislation in all governments, is for the protection or creation
of property. The evil of this condition was not so evident as long
as our homes were the centers of education, religious and moral
training, and physical development; so long as our mothers were
concerned wholly with these humanistic values. But modern
civilization in all its complexity has changed this original and
simple division of labor. The rise of the industrial system and
the growth of the modern city have both tended to break up the
unity of the original home. The extreme competition and struggle for existence has made it necessary for the mother to become
a wage earner to supplement the family budget. In fact, it has
become so difficult to maintain .standards of living set in this mass
of population, that literally thousands of men have failed entirely
to take on any responsibilty of the family life. Since there are
about as many women as men, this means that at least an equal
number of women must sustain their own life with an economic
independence produced by their own ability. So chaotic has the
family life become in our modern cities, that in millions of cases
what family organizations do exist are failing to care properly
for these humanistic values. Consequently the state has to take
over many of the duties which were at one time taken care of
in the homes. It has been compelled to concern itself with education
of the child with proper recreational facilities; with the
protection of the child from evil and destroying influences which
would destroy the morals, as well as the health. So evident are
these changes to every one, that no one questions that one of the
essential duties of the state is to take care of these very things,
so the state has literally become the mother as well as the father
and guardian of its citizens. But while the stake has assumed
so many other responsibilities once cared for by the mothers
of the race, the governments and legislative bodies continue to concern
themselves with property and property rights. No one denies
but that our legislature should spend much of their time
caring for these humanistic values, but the same habit of mind
that dominated the early legislative bodies in all governments, has
continued to dominate the legislatures of our modern state.
It is as true today as it was two hundred years ago, that
men think in terms of protection of property and property ownership.
Since woman has not been into these councils, as civilization
has changed, there has been a great lack of interest in the
human side of life. This is not because man would have it so ; i t
is not because man is opposed to woman making the greatest contribution
of w hich she is capable, but it is because of habits that
dominate the action of both men and women. Even women, on
election day, demonstrate the fixed habit of the past — they will
vote for most any grade of man and turn down the most capable
woman. Men, too, while they subscribe to the idea of the beneficial
effects of women's influence in our legislative bodies, on election
day cast their votes for men.
Another set of habits which are even more detrimental than
this habit of thinking that men only are capable of serving in
governmental affairs, is the habit which becomes evident after
these legislatures meet. Practically every platform today has
a number of its planks dealing with humanistic values. They are
values in which we are all interested and to which most everyone
subscribes, but when the legislatures open, these problems are relegated to positions of less importance and are preceded by
bills dealing with lands, mines, and various phases of industry.
In fact property instead of humanistic values receive the attention
of our legislators. As a result, our legislatures go on, one
after another, thinking how much they would like to do along
these lines, but doing what they have always done — considering
first the rights of property, and leaving little time for these newer
things for which the state has recently assumed responsibility.
In every state in this union there are women who have demonstrated
their ability to think and administer. If they were in our
legislatures in sufficient number to get a reasonable hearing, their
minds would go where they have always gone in the past — to the
moral and physical health, to the education and development of
the children of the state. A man who knows the situation very
well said to the writer that "more than seventy-five per cent of
all the social legislation that has gone on the books of Colorado
was fostered by the organized influence of women." In fact,
practically all the social legislation of the last twenty-five years has
had behind it the hearts of the mothers of our nation. The child
labor laws, the better hours of labor for women in industry,
the better baby laws, the better health and sanitation laws and
campaigns, the movement for parks and play-grounds, the eternal
demand for greater educational advantages, all have been strongly
urged by our mothers who have always been interested in these
things. It is not that we need less interest in our property legislation
with which man so persistently concerns himself, but it is
that we need more social and humanistic legislation which woman
is so thoroughly prepared by nature to foster. If w% could overcome
one persistent habit of mind, much would be done to solve
this problem. The problem is that of electing to our legislatures,
representatives all of one sex. These bodies should be divided into
a reasonable balance by electing enough women to form centers
of influnce sufficient to foster this type of legislation. We would
make no less progress in our usual type of legislation, but would
make infinitely more in matters of social legislation. Since the
states are fast assuming the duties of fathers and mothers, as
well as those of the protectors of its citizens, the feeling and thinking
of o ur mothers must become a part of our law making bodies.