[Vol11 | October 1924 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Article | Title: Clara A. Fagergren]

By Clara A. Fagergren
Outwardly calm, though inwardly fuming, Marthy Henderson busied herself with the washing. Something she had heard unexpectedly that morning had vexed her clear through. And that was unusual. For she was slow to anger.
The conversation she had accidentally overheard between Miranda, her daughter-in-law, complacently rocking on the shady porch, and a woman in the next yard, had taken place while Marthy had hurried upstairs to change sheets on the bed in the spare-room, therefore she could not help hearing every word through the open window.
Miranda, sure of the "old woman" being busy in the basement, spoke rather loudly: "Yes, she's getting queerer every day. I actually believe she hates having the children around. You don't know what I have to put up with! Of course, poor soul, she's Henry's mother, and therefore I try to do all I can for her, but I tell the world it's mighty trying at times!"
"I should think she'd appreciate a good home and her keep and everything," the woman answered. "She needn't worry over expenses. You give her more than what most old people get. It surely is hard to please them when they get old and cranky."
Miranda, not a little pleased with the sympathy she received, drawled: "That's just the very thing I've been telling Henry. She ought to be satisfied and thankful she's treated as well as she is. Only last week I paid out a dollar for her cough medicine; and the way she wears out aprons and goes through shoes is scandalous."
Marthy flounced downstairs, not wishing to hear more. Her first impulse was to face Miranda and speak her mind to the brazen thing. Keeping her out of charity! Indeed! She hated having the children around, did she? Who was it waited on them with bread and butter, and tied up their fingers, and gave them their bath Saturday nights? Who, if not their grandma! Money was squandered on cough medicine, was it? How did she get that cough if not when running around nights in the draft fixing flannels for the baby when she had the croup! And she was begrudged shoes and aprons! Could she help her shoes wearing out when she was eternally on her feet? There was seldom time to sit down for a look at the paper, even. And aprons! Rubbing against the sink three times daily surely was hard on aprons, and on her back, too. Besides, she was getting queer. Not so queer, however, that she was not able to struggle


her errand briefly and to the point. The visit must have pleased them both, for Anna walked with the older woman to the gate, and Marthy hurried home, satisfaction and determination in her eye.
It was rather late when Miranda finally returned. With her was Henry. She had, to his annoyance, stopped in and waited for him at his office. And afterwards she had lingered in front of store windows admiring the fashions. Miranda kept up with the times.
Coming through the door was grandma in her best dress, a suitcase in her hand. A glance in the dining-room showed a bare table; nor was there a sign of supper cooking. Grandma, poor soul, was getting more feeble and absent-minded every day.
Marthy, a bright spot on either cheek, announced crisply: "I've made arrangements to go and live with Anna Dillham. I won't need to work harder for her than I work for you, and she's willing to pay me five dollars a week."
Henry's mouth flew open like a flytrap. Miranda clicked twice with her tongue before being able to speak, but when finally her vocal cords got loosened her talk flowed on like unchecked lava.
"You're not going to disgrace us all," she stormed. "What will people say? There will be some talk when it's found out that Henry Henderson's mother is working out for a living! Is this the thanks we get for giving you a home all these years?"
"I have nothing to thank you for," Marthy snapped, her eyes blazing. "It's you that owes me gratitude. I've done the work here of a hired woman besides tending the children in sickness and waiting on you when you've had your babies, thereby saving you the price of a nurse. Don't pretend you're giving me charity. I heard your remarks this morning. I'm not the kind of a woman who will be a burden to anyone, not even to my own children."
A guilty look crept over Miranda's face and she hastily slipped out of the room on pretext of seeing to the fire. Henry forced his mother to a seat beside him on the sofa. He cleared his throat noisily.
"I must have been blind to conditions existing here," he blurted. "Now, mother, don't judge our thoughtlessness too harshly. Change your mind about leaving our home; we need you. We don't want you to kill yourself working. I admit we have gotten into the habit of taking too much for granted; people make mistakes, you know. Be reasonable, and give us one more trial," he pleaded, genuine sorrow in his voice.
Marthy spoke tremulously, trying hard to keep the tears out of her eyes, her throat aching in her efforts to control her pent-up emotions. After all, she had nothing against Henry; he had always been a fine boy, although his wife did not realize that there were few like him. And she dearly loved his children. In them
GRANDMA?POOR SOUL! 529
she was constantly reminded of her own brood when they were little.
"I'll stay this time but I want it understood, I'm no charity case. Foolishly I disposed of my home and gave you children my money. Common sense would tell you I sometimes need a few dollars for clothes and little things that I can't very well beg you for. After all, I have some pride."
Henry's hand dug deep into his pocket and he pressed some bills in his mother's hand. "Do as I ask you, just this once," he begged. "You'll have time to make Thomas' store before they close, if you hurry. There get yourself a pretty dress, and wear it home as a sign you'll think no more of this affair. I'll explain to Mrs. Dillham."
After all Marthy was only a woman and a mother. How could she refuse the sincere plea of her son. More to please him than thinking of her own grievances she hurried off.
As she disappeared down the street Henry stepped into the kitchen and held a hurried consultation with Miranda. Though not fully sharing his enthusiasm she readily agreed with his plans. The children were speedily rounded up and sent scurrying with mysterious messages to friends and relatives. At the telephone Henry barked incessantly for twenty minutes, giving orders to bewildered storekeepers on the point of closing, and summoning people who lived a distance from town.
At twenty-five minutes past seven, to be exact, Marthy Henderson returned home, dressed very becomingly in a soft, blue foullard, with little sprigs of white daisies in the pattern. She wore a new hat, and on her hands were shiny gloves, while comfortable stylish oxfords were on her rather small feet. She felt well because she knew she looked well. She was puzzled on seeing a line of automobiles in front of the house. Perhaps one of the children had met with an accident during her absence! Something always went wrong when she was not watching. Consternation and fear in her heart she hurried in.
A mighty shout of "surprise" greeted her. The house was jam full of people. Old friends who had danced at her wedding crowded round her joyously, working her arm like a pumphandle. Her sons and daughters and sons-in-law and daughters-in-law were all present to do honor to the occasion. Little ones, mostly her own grandchildren, spouted from stairs and doorways, and toddled to her eagerly with outstretched, fat arms, their round faces held up to be kissed. Through an open door Marthy caught a glimpse of Miranda frenziedly busy setting the table and arranging flowers. Well perhaps?in these days of extravagant and frivolous women?Henry might have done worse. With all her faults and failings


Miranda was not the one to waste money, anyway. Marthy softened in her attitude towards Henry's wife.
Soon an impromptu orchestra tuned up, and the floor was cleared for dancing. In the kitchen a babel of chattering women clattered dishes and mixed potato salad.
"Lan' sakes, Miranda, ain't it nice of you and your husband to get up this fine party for the old lady. It ain't often people will go to so much trouble," Mrs. Cornpill shrilled, peering closely through steel rimmed spectacles while frosting cake.
Perspiring over a huge pan of hot chocolate Miranda admitted: "Yes, grandma is getting quite independent, but we can't get along without her."
Henry, turning the ice cream freezer remarked dryly. "This feast is given by the prodigal son for his mother who nearly became a wanderer among strangers."
The grinding of the freezer and the din in the room made his words unintelligible to all except Mrs. Cornpill who thought he said, "mother is frightened among strangers," and she forthwith made her way to the living-room, determined to take timid old grandma under the protection of her wing.
On the threshold she stopped, however, quickly deciding Marthy could manage very well without her assistance. Marthy, her beautiful white hair curling in tiny ringlets around her flushed face, had just finished dancing her third quadrille with Ezra Fairweather. She was fully aware that Abe Jones was trying his level best to attract her attention. Both men were seventy, wealthy, and widowers. They hated one another as only two men can hate when they are trying to win the favor of the same woman.
Abe decided to use strategy. He had learned war tactics while fighting Indians in his younger days. He waited until the enemy was exhausted, then he marched boldly to the front and captured the prize. Straightening his white bow tie with the embroidered ends, which he had not worn since his wife's funeral, he steered Marthy through the crowd for a walk in the moonlit garden. Ezra, shooting pains running up his legs and feet sore from too much prancing on the dance floor, glared after them angrily, for he knew Abe lived alone in his fine home, and he would be sure to take the opportunity of offering himself and his house to the capable and good-looking Marthy.
What Shall we Have for Dinner?
When you make your purchases for the dinner table you are buying either health or sickness for the family. That is an oppressive thought to carry on the mind, but it is one nevertheless that cannot be lightened nor shifted from the housewife to others. By means of food, we must remember, the various elements of the body are sustained. Each element must be given not too little, nor yet too much, but just enough, to keep its fine balance with all the other constituents of the body.
Just what are foods, and just what kind and quantities of food are necessary each day, any good book on foods will tell you. The point here is, that careful consideration must be given this subject if the members of our family are to keep in good health.
The importance of what goes into the mouth has been given increasing attention these last few years. Infant mortality has been greatly reduced since clinics have been established where our babies can be measured and weighed and the quantity and kind of food they should be given are prescribed. In the same way can the bodily and mental ills that adult flesh is heir to, be reduced.
We have been told hereabouts lately that the reason so many people have goitre is that the water we drink is deficient in iodine. Since those who live in this part of the west get too little of this element, the way to prevent goitre therefore, if this theory be true, is to take into the system such foods as will furnish the necessary amount of iodine.
At all events we must eat only such things, and in such quantities, as will maintain the various elements that go to make up the body. And the burden of this greatest of all material tasks rests on the shoulders of the one who plans the menus for the family. And a tremendous burden it is! She cannot shift it to the shoulders of others. Others, it is true, may prepare menus, but they may not suit her. The articles may not be in the market, or they may cost too much, or the family may not like them, or there may be leftovers to serve. Nevertheless, the dinner table must have food on it when the family are asked to "draw their chairs up."
For we cannot live without food, even if it were not pleasant to eat, nor can we live in the healthful state without the proper kinds and quantities. "By indiscreet choice, precious days of life may be lost on account of headache or other acute, though minor ills, and by continued bad feeding the way paved of serious impairment of health."
So there you have staring you in the face the constantly recurring question, "What shall we have for dinner?
Guide Lessons for December
LESSON I
Theology and Testimony (First Week in December)
THE PARABLES OF THE SAVIOR (CONTINUED)
The three parables treated in this lesson unite in striking at the sin of selfishness.
The Parable of the Pharisee and the Publican. Luke 18: 9-14,
"Two men went up into the temple to pray; the one a Pharisee, and the other a Publican.
"The Pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself, God, I thank Thee, that I am not as other men are, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even as this Publican.
"I fast twice in the week, I give tithes of all that I possess.
"And the publican, standing afar off, would not lift up so much as his eyes unto heaven, but smote upon his breast, saying, God be merciful to me a sinner.
"I tell you, this man went down to his house justified rather than the other: for everyone that exalteth himself shall be abased; and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted."
Setting: A special privileged place of prayer for the Israelites who lived near the temple. The hour of prayer: a time when all Israel prayed and when those afar off turned their faces toward the temple.
Comments: The two characters of this parable are present on an equal footing, so far as privilege is concerned. They both exhibit aloofness from the crowd; but their prayers were strikingly different, and in this the difference of the men was made manifest. From their utterances it was evident that the aloofness of the Pharisee, as he stood up by himself, had behind it an egotistic estimate of himself accompanied by its ever existing complement, disdain of others. The Pharisee paraded his pomposity where humility alone should have dared to tread. In his showing off, he displays self-conceit which, however satisfying to the individual, is always offensive to society and disapproved of God. His aloofness was that of the egotist.
The aloofness of the publican, for he stood afar off, was