[Vol11 | February 1924 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: Cleaning Household Silver Ethel Cutler Butt]

Cleaning Household Silver By Ethel Cutler Butt When you have been eating in a good hotel or on a pullman dining car you have doubtless noticed the pleasing effect which the brightly polished silverware has had on the enjoyment of the meal.

Bright silverware has a suggestion of cleanliness which adds materially to the enjoyment of the meal, The reason for the brightness of the silverware, in a dining car, is made plain if one passes through, between meals, and sees how vigorously the darkies polish the tableware.

Of course.

The housewife has so many other things to do that she cannot spend the hours keeping her silver clean that the darkies can.

Yet any good housewife who has made a careful study of the effect of bright silver on the meal tries to keep the tarnish off, as far as her time permits.

To make the most of the time she has for doing this task, the woman should have a good knowledge of the materials she must work with, the best methods of cleaning and the results to be expected.

The problem of cleaning silver is of comparatively recent origin in the ordinary home, The price of silver made it prohibitive except among the wealthy, in former times.

It has not been a great while since wood was the most common material used for spoons and other tools used by the housewife.

Tinned iron was used by some but it was not satisfactory for most purposes.

Today it would be hard to find a household without at least one set of flat silver.

Much of our present day silverware, however, is plated, and not the solid kind used in past ages.

About a century ago scientists learned to deposit silver on any type of metal so that it looks as good as the solid silver and is much less expensive.

The fact that the silver is only on the surface of the iron or other metal which makes up most of the utensil, complicates the problem of cleaning it.

Not a little silverware ls ruined because the housewife cleans it with commercial preparations, or with other substances which dissolve or wear away the silver coating leaving the gross metal base exposed.

In order to work intelligently, in cleaning silverware, and in preventing it from needing cleaning frequently, it is necessary to understand what causes the tarnish, as well as the different ways in which it may be removed.

The tarnish on silver is caused by the union of this metal with some other element, the most common being oxygen or sulphur.

Most every housewife has noticed the tarnished effect which the white of an egg causes on spoons and forks.

This tarnish, as well as that coming from the contact of CLEANING HOUSEHOLD SILVER 83 silver with rubber articles, is due to the sulphur in these substances.

The appearance of tarnish on silver which has been lying idle, may be due to the union of the oxygen of the air with the silver.; Even with the best of care silverware will tarnish.

To remove it there are two methods: the most common but the hardest with the use of silver-polishes, the others by electrolysis.

The common polishes now on the market may be in the form of soaps, liquids.

Pastes, or powders.

They usually depend upon one or more of the following active ingredients for their merit: CaCO,, or powdered limestone, sal soda, salt, soap, rottonstone, iron rust or silicon although other substances are sometimes used.

Soap, ammonia, oxalic acid, salt, soda ash, and some others depend upon their chemical action for their usefulness, but most of them merely wear the tarnish off the same way as emery stone wears away a metal.

If any of these are used, perhaps the best one would be the powdered limestone, or whiting, or Paris white as it is usually called, when bought for this purpose.

Its inexpensiveness is a strong recommendation when such a cleanser is desired.

The most common way of using it is to place it in a cheese cloth, dip it in a small quantity of water, and shake it so as to cause the powder to filter into the water and be precipitated.

This precipitate is used to do the polishing.

While the polishes will do good work, they are messy, and they require much unnecessary time and energy.

Also they cause the silver plating to wear off quickly and give the finish a scratchy appearance.

The more recent and probably the better method is that of removing the tarnish by means of a chemically created electrical current, which at the same time redeposits silver on the utensil.

This method, called electrolysis, if used properly, saves wear, gives a soft finish and is quick as well as clean and cheap.

To use this method it is necessary to have (1) a silver cleaning pan, (2) a bright aluminum pan, or (3) a bright tin pan.

These metal pans assist in the removal of the tarnish and the redeposition of the silver.

The patented silver cleaning pans, sold on the market, may be somewhat expensive for the average housewife.

Most every household has at least one aluminum pan, however, and if this is bright and clean it may be used as successfully as the patented one.

The chemicals to be used in the cleaning will cause some of the aluminum to be taken out of the pan, and it will wear out a little quicker than if not used often for cleaning in this way.

The wearing away is so slow that it will not ordinarily be noticed.

Bright tin pans are nearly as satisfactory as either of the two above mentioned pans, and their low cost recommends them to those not having one of the others,. 84. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The solution which does the cleaning consists of one tablespoonful each of baking soda and ordinary table salt to each quart of hot water.

When the hot water is poured onto the soda and salt in the pan there is rapid bubbling for a few seconds, so the pan in which the cleaning is to be done should not be too full.

As soon as the violent bubbling has subsided, the silver, which has, of course, been made as clean by washing as if it were to be placed on the dinner table, is dropped into the pan so that each ' piece is resting upon the pan.

After it has been in the solution for two or three minutes the silver is taken out and rinsed in water.

The salt solution should be poured out of the pan as soon as the cleaning is finished, to prevent the chemical action of the salts from wearing it away.

Silver cleaned in this way lasts as long as, or longer than, that cleaned by ordinary polishing.

Some housewives think it necessary to clean silver once a week or oftener but this is unnecessary and wears away the utensils.

A two-week period is often enough if the silver is not left in contact with substances such as eggs, rubber, etc., that cause rapid tarnishing.

Washing silver soon after using with clean, hot, soapy water, and then rinsing in hot water and wiping dry, will usually prevent tarnishing of silver which is not in constant use.