[Vol41 | January 1954 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: To | Author: Bailey]
[To Shield a King— Third Prize Poem _ Alice Morrey Bailey]

Madsen', Poems haye appeared jn dies Home Jo Nal, Pictor I Rey Cw, the Improveme t Era, and NY other Publications € has both € Ch tmas Story a Poem contest, annually PONnsored by The Cseret News he is als Tepresented; the new lume of Uta "8S and other nthologies ™Mber of the t Barn ts, she S€lous student f Poetry and Poetry writ; > h characterizeq by excellent mque, as wel] 4s thoughtfy] Content, flecting fen obserya of nature and €ep Understandin f €motions and ideals hich sh Tesents with ences of Sic, Olce of Words set in the CaDorothy Jensen Roberts Salt L the Wn to the Teaders of ™S, many of them fronticp: [ & her Interests > "TS. Roberts Writ es: "I was born in S eet, Idaho, and als in the lich fruit Country around Oise, ter, I ha a Tew years in the town of Ephraim, Utah, and a sto 00 adolescence and youth and Hollada ae ended th I In ottonwood tah for three years and gles, and in Many mga Mrs, Bailey has Award Winners Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest HE Relief Society general board is pleased to announce the award winners in the Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest which was announced in the June 1953 issue of the Magazine, and which closed September 15, 1953. The first prize of fifty dollars is awarded to Dorothy Clapp Robinson, Boise, Idaho, for her story "One Wild Rose." 'The second prize of forty dollars is awarded to Mary Ek Knowles, Ogden, Utah, for her story "Beside the Still Waters." 'The third prize of thirty dollars is awarded to Ruth MacKay, Lethbridge, Alberta, Canada, for her story "One Sweetly Solemn Thought." The winners of the first and second prizes have previously placed in the Relief Society Short Story Contest, but the third prize winner, Ruth MacKay, appears for the first time as a contest winner. This contest, first conducted by the Relief Society general board in 1941, as a feature of the Relief Society centennial observance, was made an annual contest in 1942. The contest is open only to Latterday Saint women who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication by a periodical of recognized merit. The three prize-winning stories will be published consecutively in the first three issues of The Relief Society Magazine for 1954. Thirty-seven stories were entered in the contest for 1953. Most of these stories were well plotted and well written, and featured realistic Page 16 character presentation and development. The contest was initiated to encourage Latter-day Saint women to express themselves in the field of fiction. 'The general board feels that the response to this opportunity continues to increase the literary quality of The Relief Society Magazine, and will aid the women of the Church in the development of their gifts in creative writing. Prize-winning stories are the property of the Relief Society general board, and may not be used for publication by others except on written permission of the general board. The general board also reserves the right to publish any of the stories submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rate. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. The Relief Society Magazine now has subscribers in every State in the Union, and in Alaska, Hawaii, Canada, Mexico, Australia, England, France, Germany, South America, South Africa, and other countries. The general board congratulates the prize-winning contestants, and expresses appreciation for all those who submitted stories. Sincere gratitude is extended to the judges for their discernment and skill in selecting the prize-winning stories. The general board also acknowledges, with appreciation, the work of the short story committee in supervising the contest. PrizeWinning Story Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest First Prize Story One Wild Rose Dorothy Clapp Robinson DOROTHY CLAPP ROBINSON with forced unconcern, but her fingers were cramped. "I don't need you any longer, Mother. Really, I am all right. I do appreciate your staying with the children while I was at church." "Donny isn't asleep yet. I could stay." "Tl speak to him." Gwen hoped her mouth was not actually as tight as it felt. Te relieve her hands she began gathering the Sunday papers. "I can't lean on you and Dad forever. You have been so kind." "Kind!" With a sigh Mrs. Owens reached for her handbag. ° ({ with met her mother's eyes Gwen swallowed, trying to dislodge the hardness in her throat. She knew she was not deceiving her mother. She knew her loss was her parents' loss. She knew her every moment of loneliness and her every heartache were echoed in their hearts; but tonight she must be alone. After her mother's car had passed from sight, Gwen stood motionless in the driveway. For long minutes she waited. "Why," she whispered, "oh, Donald, why?" A petulant cry came from the house. "Muv-ver." Gwen went quickly to the room where her children slept. "IT wanted you." Donny was sitting upright, his chubby fist beating restlessly on the pillow. "Why did not you come?" Gwen sat on the bed beside him. "S-s-sh. Must not wake baby sister." Donny glanced at his sister's crib. "She is dead as the world," he announced scornfully. The baby was sleeping "dead as the world." Dark curls clung damply about her gamin face. Her rosebud mouth was irresistible, but even as Gwen bent to kiss it, she drew back abruptly. "You don't like her," Donny accused. "Lie down and go to sleep." She hadn't intended her tone to be so Page 17 18 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1954 harsh. 'To counteract it she laid the boy back on his pillow. "You sing and I sleep,' Donny proposed. "Darling, Mother can't sing to night. Please be a good boy and go to sleep." "IT heard you once," he persisted. She could not do it. Never again would her heart and throat respond to melody. She tried to pat the boy gently, but her hand moved in jerks. Bewildered by his mother's unaccustomed actions, the boy lay quiet. He blinked hard trying to keep awake. Gwen dropped to the floor and buried her face in the bedding. She tried to pray, but could only suffer. Donny's hand reached and grasped one of her fingers. When, finally, it relaxed, she rose stiffly and went into the living room. She turned on the radio, but snapped it off immediately. Seeing the unoffending papers, she snatched at them and tore them to shreds. She stared unseeing at the litter they made on the floor. Automatically, she stooped and gathered the pieces one by one. She went outside to dispose of them. LONG the newly surfaced street lights were snapping on and unblinded windows gave glimpses of family life. Don had bought in this new addition thinking there would be more room for a play yard and that the hazards of town would be at a minimum. He hadn't guessed. How could he have guessed how alone she was going to be! She went back inside, but paced restlessly back and forth, from room to room, picking up this, setting down that. Inevitably she came again to look out upon the coming night. Twilight had deepened into a soft purple curtain through which a few stars were peeping. The tang and pull of spring lay sweet and challenging on the air. 'The song that had refused to be put aside came silently to her lips '... Unknown waves before me yl. Somewhere angry waves were rolling over Don. Perhaps they had flung him on some barren shore. Perhaps—but she must not think. She must not. She closed the door. Thayne and Lila were new in the ward. 'Tonight they had sung, "Jesus, Savior, Pilot Me." 'That had been hard to take, but the love, the possessiveness that radiated from them had been the one thing too much. Of all songs that one had meant most to her in her life with Don.