[Vol41 | January 1954 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Award]
[Award Winners — Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest -]
\Biographical  Sketches  of  M.^>:>ard  Winners 
in  the  ibliza  [R.  Snoss?  iPoem    Contest 
Lizabeth  Wall  Madsen,  who  was  born  in  Mt.  Pleasant,  Utah,  and  lived  there  until 
1941,  has  contributed  many  poems  to  The  Relief  Society  Magazine.  Her  poem  ''I  Shall 
Be  Late"  was  awarded  second  prize  in  the  Eliza  R.  Snow  Poem  Contest  in  1946. 
She  devotes  most  of  her  time  to  being  a  secretary  in  Salt  Lake  City,  and  being  both 
mother  and  father  to  a  teen-age  daughter,  Diane.  Whatever  few  moments  are  left 
are  used  in  writing,  mostly  poetry.  Mrs.  Madsen's  poems  have  appeared  in  Ladies 
Home  Journal,  Pictorial  Review,  the  Improvement  Era,  and  many  other  publications. 
She  has  won  both  the  Christmas  story  and  poem  contests  annually  sponsored  by  The 
Deseret  News.  She  is  also  represented  in  the  new  volume  of  Utah  Sings  and  other 
anthologies.  A  member  of  the  Art  Barn  Poets,  she  is  a  serious  student  of  poetry  and 
poetry  writing;  her  work  is  characterized  by  excellent  technique,  as  well  as  thoughtful 
content,  reflecting  a  keen  observation  of  nature  and  a  deep  understanding  of  emotions 
and  ideals,  which  she  presents  with  a  discriminating  choice  of  words  set  in  the  ca- 
dences of  music. 
^    'it    V 
Dorothy  Jensen  Roberts,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  is  well  known  to  the  readers  of 
the  Magazine  who  have  enjoyed  her  lovely  poems,  many  of  them  frontispieces,  since 
1941.  In  describing  her  interests,  Mrs.  Roberts  writes:  "I  was  born  in  Sweet,  Idaho,  and 
spent  a  few  years  in  the  rich  fruit  country  around  Boise.  Later,  I  had  a  few  years  in 
the  town  of  Ephraim,  Utah,  and  a  storybook  adolescence  and  youth  in  Cottonwood 
and  Holladay.  I  attended  the  University  of  Utah  for  three  years  and  have  taken  ex- 
tension courses  and  special  classes  in  hterature.  For  three  years  I  was  a  schoolteacher. 
I  have  been  active  in  all  the  auxiliaries  of  the  Church,  and  have  especially  enjoyed  my 
work  in  Relief  Society.  I  have  two  daughters,  two  precious  grandchildren,  and  a  fine 
husband.  As  hobbies,  my  strongest  affinity  is  poetry,  and  next,  playing  the  violin, 
with  art  and  sewing  following.  Tv/ice  before  I  have  been  awarded  a  prize  in  the 
Eliza  R.  Snow  Poem  Contest,  as  well  as  many  other  awards  and  prizes.  My  poetry 
and  prose  have  appeared  in  the  Church  publications  and  other  newspapers  and  maga- 
zines. I  am  a  member  of  the  Utah  Sonneteers,  Utah  Poetry  Society,  and  the  League 
of  Utah  Writers." 
^    'J*    ^ 
Alice  Morrey  Bailey,  musician,  composer,  sculptor,  artist,  and  writer,  is  a  remark- 
ably gifted  woman.  Readers  of  The  Relief  Society  Magazine  are  familiar  with  her 
poems,  short  stories,  and  serials.  Her  story  "The  Wilderness"  placed  first  in  the  1941 
Rehef  Society  Short  Story  Contest,  and  "The  Ring  of  Strength"  placed  second  in 
1945.  In  the  1948  Relief  Society  contests,  Mrs.  Bailey  was  awarded  first  prize  in  the 
short  story  and  second  prize  in  poetry.  Her  poem  "Lot's  Wife"  won  first  prize  in 
the  Eliza  R.  Snow  Poem  Contest  in  1951.  Her  serial  "The  Deeper  Melody"  is  cur- 
rently running  in  the  Magazine.  Mrs.  Bailey's  poems  have  appeared  in  many  antholo- 
gies, and  in  many  magazines  and  newspapers  of  national  circulation.  Since  girlhood, 
Mrs.  Bailey  has  been  active  in  Church  work.  She  is  now  president  of  the  M.  I.  A.  in 
the  Eleventh  Ward,  Salt  Lake  City.  Ahce  and  her  husband  DeWitt  Bailey  are  the 
parents  of  three  children  and  they  have  one  grandchild.  Mrs.  Bailey  is  a  member 
of  the  Utah  Sonneteers,  the  League  of  Utah  Writers,  the  Associated  Utah  Artists,  and 
at  present  is  acting  as  compositor  of  technical  reports.  College  of  Mines  and  Mineral 
Industries,  University  of  Utah,  Salt  Lake  City. 
Page  15