[Vol41 | January 1954 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Fiction | Title: Visiting | Author: Jacobs]
[Visiting Teacher Messages: "But There Is a Resurrection, Therefore the Grave Hath No Victory" _ Leone O. Jacobs]
Visiting  cJeacher  1 1  iessages 
Book  of  Mormon  Gems  of  Truth 
Lesson  23— ''But  There  Is  a  Resurrection,  Therefore  the  Grave  Hath  No 
Victory,  and  the  Sting  of  Death  Is  Swallowed  Up  in  Christ''  (Mosiah  16:8). 
Leone  O.  Jacobs 
For  Tuesday,  April  6,  1954 
Objective:  To  give  assurance  of  life  after  death. 
"IITE  shall  live  again!  This  is  the 
glorious  promise  of  the  resur- 
rection! Down  through  the  ages, 
many  great  and  noble  souls  have 
echoed  the  words  of  Job,  "I  know 
that  my  Redeemer  liveth"  (Job 
19:25).  History  also  affirms  the 
truth  of  the  resurrection. 
To  Latter-day  Saints  the  resur- 
rection is  not  a  fantastic  story,  not 
a  dim  hope,  but  a  reah'ty.  It  is  a 
logical  sequence  to  mortality.  We 
accept  it  as  an  important  part  of 
the  plan  of  salvation.  Latter-day 
Saints  have  evidence  of  the  resur- 
rection which  is  not  known  to  the 
world  generally.  In  answer  to  the 
sincere  prayer  of  Joseph  Smith,  the 
Father,  and  the  risen  Redeemer  ap- 
peared to  him  in  person.  Later,  Jo- 
seph Smith  and  Sidney  Rigdon  be- 
held the  Savior  and  heard  his  voice. 
This  is  their  solemn  declaration: 
And  now,  after  the  many  testimonies 
which  have  been  given  of  him,  this  is  the 
testimony,  last  of  all,  which  we  give  of 
him:  That  he  lives!  For  we  saw  him,  even 
on  the  right  hand  of  God;  and  we  heard 
the  voice  bearing  record  that  he  is  the 
Only  Begotten  of  the  Father — That  by 
him,  and  through  him,  and  of  him,  the 
worlds  are  and  were  created,  and  the  in- 
habitants thereof  are  begotten  sons  and 
daughters  unto  God  (D.  &  C.  76:22-24). 
Latter-day  Saints  accept  birth  and 
death  as  necessary  steps  to  the  ad- 
vancement of  mankind.    We  came 
Poge  58 
to  this  earth  to  prove  ourselves  in 
mortality.  From  here  we  will  go  on 
to  another  stage  of  development  to 
continue  eternally.  It  has  been  said, 
'To  live  is  to  go  on  a  journey.  To 
die  is  but  to  come  back  home.'' 
A  perfect  faith  in  the  resurrection 
tempers  the  parting  with  loved 
ones.  It  brings  comfort  and  tran- 
quility to  the  hearts  of  the  be- 
reaved, for  they  are  assured  that  the 
separation  is  for  a  relatively  short 
period,  and  is  but  preliminary  to  a 
happier  state. 
We  might  say  that  death  itself 
gives  credence  to  the  resurrection 
for  were  there  no  resurrection,  an 
immense  waste  of  time  and  strug- 
gle and  achievement  would  result. 
Such  waste  is  not  consistent  with
