[Vol41 | January 1954 | Sequence: 29 | Category: General Feature | Title: From Near and Far]
Strom Near and Sar I am deeply impressed with the amount of labor you have expended with the Library of Congress and other sources to secure the pictures and information on the framers of the Constitution (October 1953). It is a very valuable piece of work. I doubt that few schoolrooms have, in convenient form, these pictures and the accompanying thumbnail sketches. —G. Homer Durham Vice-President, University of Utah Today I especially want to thank you for the Magazine, and for the article "The Renovating and Dressing of Dolls" (by Thelma Standering, November 1953). Recently I had given my four-year-old daughter a doll that had been mine when I was a small child. Well, she left it out in the rain last night and the doll just looks awful—the whole body is all bumpy. Well, after reading that article, I have hopes for this doll and two others that I want to fix up. So, instead of feeling like crying, I feel like singing. I'm not artistic, but I do have hopes. —June W. Robertson San Mateo, California I know that thousands of sisters must fee] about our wonderful Magazine as I do.

What care and good taste and discrimination you do exercise in its compilation. I am so proud to let my friends and sisters know how important it is to me. Let me call attention to page 752 ' in the November issue.

That little fourline poem by Cynthia A.

Scott is well worth headline publication in my estimation. How carefully it is written and how true the messagel —Clara Home Park San Mateo, California Roxana Farnsworth Hase, long-time contributor to The Relief Society Magazine, has recently had her poems collected in a delightful anthology Delicious Lumps, published by Vantage Press, New York City. The poems are entertaining reading for the family and many of them have been used in plays, programs, and pageants. Page 2 It certainly was a thrill to the Box Elder Chapter of the American Association of Penwomen to have three of their five poets appear together in the November Relief Society Magazine (Eleanor W. Schow, Maude O. Cook, and Renie H. Littlewood).... Of course the poetry is the first thing we look for in the Magazine, but, as most of us are Relief Society members, we are also interested in other features of the Magazine and enjoy every bit of it. —Renie H. Littlewood Brigham City, Utah I am glad you editors enjoyed my poem "Suds" (November 1953). I tried to think of the most unlovely thing to me and write a poem about it. —Ivy Houtz Woolley Ogden, Utah OUR MAGAZINE Here's something we all love so well Our Magazine, dear Magazine; The help it gives each tongue can tell Our Magazine, dear Magazine. Wherever L. D. S. Are known We want to find in every home A sister who is proud to own Our Magazine, dear Magazine. —Annie M. Ellsworth, President Central States Mission Relief Society (Verses may be sung to the tune "MIA, Our MIA") I should like to take this opportunity to tell you how much I enjoy The Relief Society Magazine, especially since it is impossible for me to attend Relief Society meetings, as we live nearly fifty miles from the nearest branch of the Church. The Magazine keeps me in touch with what the sisters are doing, and when we are in a location where I can attend the meetings, I am sure I shall feel at home. I enjoy all the stories in the Magazine, and the articles and poetry immensely. —Maurine B. Hansen Rocky Boy Agency Box Elder, Montana