[Vol41 | January 1954 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: One | Author: Robinson]
All had been said that could be said—had been said so many times the words had * ONE WILD ROSE lost their meaning. Goné wété the compass and chart that had directed her life. 'The walls of the room: seemed to close in about her, suffocating her with their rigidity. She snatched at the back door and flung it open. The stars were brighter now, though in the direction of town they were dimmed by the street lights. For a moment the heavens fascinated her. How far was a star? How far from faith to knowledge, and who knew the way? In quick decision she went back to the children. Both were sleeping soundly. She glanced from the window. Leah, her neighbor, was looking at her children. Gwen rapped on the pane. "Will you listen for them?" she asked. "Surely. Run along." It was characteristic of Leah that she asked no questions. Gwen tried to smile her thanks. She offered no explanation as to where she was going. She did not know where she was going. She did not care except that the way must lead to peace. Throwing a stole over her shoulders, she went out into the night. She started walking, but with no sense of direction. [' had been just such an evening as this when she and Don had met. The M Men and Gleaners from her home ward had gone up the river for a picnic. They had ridden in an open truck, and, leaning against the high body, she had noticed his black head, just noticed because it was darker and could be seen above the others. They had sung all the way, popular songs, sentimental songs, and then someone had started "Jesus, Savior, Pilot we Me." Perhaps it had been prompted by the nearness of the road to the river, or perhaps it had been for no reason at all, Gwen had caught Don's clear rich notes through the chorus of voices, and they brought a sweetness and fulness to her heart not experienced before. Around the campfire while they were toasting weiners she had noticed him again. She had thought he was with Ruby Denman. And then, suddenly, evening had laid a gauzy blanket over the scene. She was standing on the brink of the river reaching for a wild rose. "Let me." He was at her side. "You might fall." Getting the rose had been easy for him. He held it so she could inhale the fragrance. Later, they had laughed as he had tried to pin it in her hair—hair, he reminded, that was bright and golden beside the dark sheen of his. "A wild rose for everlasting love," he said. "Are you sure?" she challenged. "I am sure of one thing. I shall never sce a wild rose again, but I shall see you and this—this heavenly spot." Stumbling alone in the darkness, Gwen remembered how sure his words had been. Don had always been sure. They had walked back to the group hand in hand, that is, her hand was resting lightly in his, but she was keenly aware of the strength of the fingers that had fumbled with the bobby pin. From that moment there had been no doubt. Don was her other, her stronger self. With him life was a dream materialized. With him she was strong and capable. Without 20 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1954 him she fumbled in a sea of aloneness. But the aloneness she felt tonight was light years removed from that which she had experienced then. Her life had been torn: from its moorings; the song, the stars, the spring breeze cried it from every direction. HEY had not waited long. Don had known the horror and spiritual desolation of the South Pacific. He was eager for home and family. When she knelt at the altar and became his for time and eternity, Gwen had been sure, so very sure. 'There was an eternity, and she and Don would share it together. Everything that had helped to bring about the marriage had been motivated by love and a sense of unity, and everything about the marriage had been charged with the same calm unison of spirit she had experienced the night they had met. The coming of the babies had lifted their ecstasy to the higher plane of parenthood. Walking, walking in the darkness, Gwen lived again those bright years. She recalled the first time they had sung together in church. They had chosen "Jesus, Savior, Pilot Me" because of its special meaning for them. She loved the poetry of its words, the haunting melody of its notes. She had smiled smugly that night. A kindly fate had chartered their course and spared them the rolling of boisterous waves. She was Gwen and he was Don, and the babies were both of them. 'They were a unit. 'They would always be a unit. Death was something that came to people, but when two were joined, as she and Don, there could be no real separation. Gwen suddenly became conscious that all the. While she had been reliving those happy years her feet had chosen their own path. Where the path led did not enter her mind. The way of going was immaterial. 'Tonight one relived moment of intimacy had jerked her from her comforting bed of faith. Gone also was her future, her assurance of reunion with Don. She must find these things again, or there was no meaning to life—there could be no life. She could endure the endless days, the interminable nights, the excruciating loneliness of body and spirit, if only she knew. Physically exhausted, she sank to the earth. She looked about as one struggling from a coma. All about her trees elbowed each other and their leaves stirred sleepily. 'The moon had risen and its reflected light glistened from water. The river! Shock struck the fuzziness from her mind. She had come back. Back to where she had met Don. Here they had come most frequently for their picnics, and it had been the scene of their last one. Once Donny, venturing too near, had fallen into the water. She had screamed with fright and run for him, but Don was already holding him. "He might have drowned," she cried. Don laughed. "He might, if the water had been a little deeper right here, but he didn't. I was here.". He gave the boy a gentle spat. "Now, young man, don't get so close next time." "Tl never come here again." "Why? Donny is a boy. He ONE WILD ROSE will seek adventure and must learn to handle himself. We can't avoid life by running." So simple, so safe, when Don was here. It was absurd to worry the tiniest bit. They were a unit, complete, irrevocable. I had been too perfect, or perhaps she had been too sure. A call had come and Don had gone seeking—no, not seeking, but meeting adventure. She was happy, for he was still with her, though his letters were often weeks apart and came from remote outposts. His time in service nearly finished, she had hastened to prepare their home for his coming. 'Then his plane had gone into the water, and there had been no one to pull him out as he had Donny. What followed had been nightmare from which she had struggled to awaken, but back of the nightmare, mellowing her heartache, had been Don as always. Until tonight they had been a unit. Abruptly she had become a lone, lonely widow. Her children were fatherless. She had been told so many things, she had been promised so much, but all of it was as nothing against her lack of knowledge. How could she be certain? The answer to that was that she could not know. All the truths she had been taught, all the principles she had lived by were but beliefs, balm for grieving hearts. She didn't want them. She wanted Don. She wanted to know. Time, maliciously, refused to pass. For eons, it seemed, she sat suffering. She tried to think. She tried to pray, but as before, nothing could penetrate the cloud of her 2) emotions. She ran her hands through her hair and her fingers caught. Her elbows dropped to her knees. "Don," she whispered, wordlessly, "Don, come back. I need you so." Just when the fragrance first touched Gwen she did not know, but gradually it was there, so delicate, so all-enveloping, so rich in memories and promises. She raised her head. 'The moon was behind the trees and she could see little through the filtered light. Guided by the fragrance her fingers groped and found the blossom. One wild rose! She broke it from the stem and lifted it to her cheek. For a long moment she caressed it. The fragrance grew and grew until it reached the farthest tip of each nerve. 'Then, like a delicate spring, it released the tension that had held her rigid for so long. Longsmothered sobs twisted her body with their violence. The storm was long, but it cleared suddenly. One moment Gwen was quivering with hysteria and the next she was quiet, quiet with a deep inner calm that carried a touch of the sublime. Her starved soul drank in the sweetness, the soothing power of it.

Don was back, for only he could give this strength, this sense of togetherness. Sometime later the mood of exultation passed, and Gwen was alone again, but she was not lonely. She had found Don, and now she must go to their babies. As she opened her front door Gwen turned for a last look at the night. Dawn was a brush of delicate pink above the dark hills. Night was gone, and it was a new 22 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1954 day. It was a new day for never again would she experience the complete desolation of spirit she had known this night. Now she knew.: The thought startled her. How did she know? Did she know? She knew in a positive physical sense that the rose was there before she touched it. She knew because of its fragrance. In just as positive, but less tangible way, she knew Don was still Don. There could be no mistake about the sweet tranquility only he could bring. Like the fragrance, the evidence was there if the substance was not. Was this then knowledge, or was it faith? One bright star lingered in the sky, and she studied it. Again she asked, how far is a star? How far between faith and knowledge? Knowledge, perhaps, was as far as a star, and the path to it as inexplicable as faith. Perhaps, but it no longer mattered. The question had lost its importance. Closing the door she turned toward the bedroom and words came melodiously to her lips: "... [ hear thee say to me, fear not: I will pilot thee." ew Dorothy Clapp Robinson, Boise, Idaho, is well known to readers of The Relief Society Magazine. Her stories have pleased a wide audience for many years, and she is adept at writing serials as well as shorter fiction. She was awarded third prize in the Relief Society Short Story Contest in 1945, and first prize in 1950. "Writing has >? Been a source of joy to me, most satisfying friendships of my life. She tells us, "for through it I have formed some of the I have served five times as chapter president and State president of The Idaho Writers League, of which I am a charter member. Relief Society, of course, has been the big work of my life. However, I have served in ward and stake capacities in all the auxiliaries, except Primary. At working on the Sunday School stake board. Idaho as a small child. All under ten years of age. Firsthand." present I am I was born in Colorado, but came to I am mother of five children and grandmother to eighteen— The eighteen include one pair of twins born to one of my twins. I am a twin, as was my father. So my material for juvenile stories comes «<P a er Gardener s Reward Sudie Stuart Hager When summer left, the weeds stood high In every vegetable row, And clover blossomed in the grass That I had failed to mow; Each dead bloom-stalk was mummified, The unpruned bushes sprawled, So that I viewed my yard with shame When green-thumbed neighbors called. But winter with his tinseling-brush Has made each drab thing shine; And there's no other garden-spot As glorious as mine!