[Vol41 | January 1954 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: Individual | Author: Buehner]
Individual Welfare in a Time of Plenty Bishop Carl W. Buehner Of the Presiding Bishopric [Address Delivered at the Annual General Relief Society Conference, September 30, 1953] I' is a most inspiring experience to be here this morning with the leaders of the great Relief Society organization from all over the Church. If my arithmetic is correct, over ninety-nine per cent of all the stakes are represented here this morning, and I think I saw one sister stand up who is here from New Zealand. I have a great love for New Zealand after the two weeks I spent there. 'This is marvelous. I have learned to love your Relief Society presidency more than I will ever be able to tell you. They are great leaders, very inspiring leaders, and I am sure that the affairs of the Relief Society are in wonderful hands. If I am a little nervous this morning, it is because I am not accustomed to speaking to such a large conference of women. You look like a beautiful flower garden. I feel like the counselor recently conducting a quarterly conference. The stake president, we learned, was in the hospital with a very serious operation, and the counselor was a little nervous, too. During the course of the meeting he said, "Our choir will now sing 'Let the Mountains Shake for Joy.' "' You understand what I mean. It was wonderful to hear Sister Spafford's report of the accomplishments of this great organization— to witness the roll call this morning. It is tremendously interesting Page 4 to sit on the stand, and observe sisters standing up in large groups, representing the stakes from all over the Church. I enjoyed the wonderful report of Sister Wright, Sister Stoddard's very excellent talk, and the beautiful music. It is just a real thrill to be with you in conference this morning. I have been assigned a welfare subject to discuss with you. 'This may bring you out of the clouds and back down to earth, but I know of no subject more interesting to all of us than our security. I have a great love for the Welfare Program, and have heard some outstanding testimonies of its application to members of the Church. I am sold on it all the way. Inside the covers of the little blue Welfare handbook, we have, in my opinion, the greatest security program that man has ever seen. It should be so, for it is the Lord's program of taking care of his children. I sincerely hope we appreciate it and do something about it. The subject I am to discuss this morning is "Individual Welfare in a Time of Plenty." 'This indicates we may not have taken advantage of the good years we have enjoyed to prepare ourselves for the time of need. I would like to make one or two observations relative to the program that may present a little different approach from the manner in which it has been presented INDIVIDUAL WELFARE IN A TIME OF PLENTY 5 to us in the past. That which will be discussed, I am sure, will not reveal anything new, but I trust will be helpful in seeing our problem. NUMBER one is that literally we are all welfare cases. I assume we have not thought of the problem in this way, but most of our time, our energy, and our money is spent to take care of the physical comforts of the body. This does not infer that we must ask anyone for assistance, but certainly, all we work for, and the result of our labor are largely required to take care of our physical comforts. I have often thought of the many things we could do with the money we could have were it not all required for this purpose. Think of our physical condition for a moment. If we are sick, we want to get well. If we are hungry, we want to eat. When we get too warm, we want to get cool. When we are too cold, we want to get warm. Besides this, we need clothing, shelter, and the many other comforts our body requires. This is what commands a great deal of our effort, our energy, our time, and our finances. The second observation I should like to make is that there is little difference between those of us who seem to have all we need and those in need of assistance. So many things can happen so swiftly to change our situation from one of comparative comfort to one of distress. I am thinking of drouth, frost, floods, famine, fires, strikes, illness, and other circumstances that come quickly to cause us distress, and prevent us from earning our normal livelihood. As an example, just recently I was in a stake where the major income in the community is derived from the production of fruit. While there, we inspected the bishop's storehouse, and discovered no fruit for distribution. 'This was in the peak of the fruit season, and some people were complaining because of the absence of fruit in the storehouse. After a little investigation, we said, "Look at all the orchards here and the immense production of fruit in this area. Certainly this is one thing the storehouse ought to be filled with." "Ah," but they said, "we had a very severe frost this spring, and we have little or no fruit in our entire area." This has caused a hardship on this community, and many individuals depending on their fruit crop for their income and to make payments on their farms will be in difficulty this year. Besides this, many will not have fruit in their cellars or canned fruit on their shelves because of the loss of the fruit crop. It might even be possible that some might have property in jeopardy because of the loss of income through this severe frost. In some other areas, crops have dried up for lack of moisture. 'The land has been unable to produce because water has been so scarce. Then we have the extreme where there is too much water, where floods have raised havoc with farms and homes. It is not an uncommon thing to pick up a newspaper and to see where the ravage of fire has destroyed the possessions of a family or a group of families. Usually you see members of the family standing at the side of the ruins, and read that everything they possessed has been destroyed. In many of these cases, some agency of the Welfare Program has come to their rescue to assist them in getting back 6 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1954 on their feet. 'This might be the Priesthood quorum, a ward organization, or friends or relatives of the family. We cannot hide the fact that the desire of all of us is security, and so we want to be healthy, we want to be employed, and we should like to be able to take care of ourselves and our families. It, therefore, becomes a very important part of the Welfare Program to follow the counsel of the leaders of the Church, and to prepare in a time of plenty for a time of need which may overtake us sooner than we had planned. 'To do this insures us of a carry-over in any critical petiod that might confront us. OME of us heard the President of the Church a few days ago say that we are living in the most critical period in the history of the world. This being true, we had better take stock of ourselves, our resources, and check the year's supply we have been asked to acquire, and see if we are prepared should tragedy strike. Certainly, as we are confronted by these critical times, we should listen to the voice of warning that has come from our prophet, and prepare ourselves against any emergency that might arise. We are blessed above all other people in that we have a prophet to point the way before us. Some time ago I had the experience of presiding over the Salt Lake Region, known to most of us as Welfare Square in Salt Lake City. We had many experiences which indicated the need for preparation. I recall a strike being called in one of the large industries west of Salt Lake City, which placed 6,000 men out of employment. The strike continued for a period of six months, and during its course, it became necessary for our region to take care of thousands of families whose income had been stopped as a result of this strike. Had these families listened to the counsel given through the Welfare Program, they would have been able to provide for themselves during this emergency, but like most of us, there is a general feeling that when times are good there is no need to prepare for a day in the future.