[Vol41 | January 1954 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Wings | Author: Madsen]
Wings Over the West." The second prize of twenty dollars is awarded to Dorothy J. Roberts, Salt Lake City, for her poem "A Stone in the Wilderness." 'The third prize of fifteen dollars is awarded to Alice Morrey Bailey, Salt Lake City, for her poem "To Shield a King." This poem contest has been conducted annually by the Relief Society general board since 1924, in honor of Eliza R. Snow, second general president of Relief Society, a gifted poet and beloved leader. The contest is open to all Latterday Saint women, and is designed to encourage poetry writing, and to increase appreciation for creative writing and the beauty and value of poetry. Prize-winning poems are the property of the Relief Society general board, and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission of the general board. 'The general board also reserves the right to publish any of the poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at Page 10 the regular Magazine rate. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. There were one hundred ten poems submitted in this year's contest. Many of the poems revealed careful technique and lovely imagery, as well as profound thought development.: Twenty-two states were represented in the contest entries, the largest number of entries came in order from Utah, California, Idaho, Kansas, Oklahoma, Wyoming, and Arizona. 'Three entries came from England, one from Scotland, and one from Argentina. The winner of the first prize this year, Mrs. Lizabeth Wall Madsen, was awarded second prize in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest in 1946. Mrs. Roberts and Mrs. Bailey have won prizes in several previous contests. The general board congratulates the prize winners and expresses appreciation to all entrants for their interest in the contest. 'The general board wishes, also, to thank the judges for their care and diligence in selecting the prize-winning poems. The services of the poetry committee of the general board are very much appreciated. The prize-winning poems, together with photographs and biographical sketches of the prize-winning contestants, are published herewith. PrizeWinning Poems &liza Roxey Snow Memorial Poem Contest a ¥ LIZABETH WALL MADSEN First Prize Poem Wings OQver the Wrst Lizabeth Wall Madsen The wheeling arcs of gulls have etched the storm With slender, silver patterns of their flying. Curved to the wind and strangers to the warm Far earth, they seek a new horizon, crying. Theirs is a spiraled search, and there is more To weld them to the clouds than fragile feather; Other than bone and sinew lets them soar, Freed to the free sky and its ragged weather. Beyond the windless acre where I stand, Shuttered from rain in one protected hollow, They are but little space above the land, From chrysalis to flight where I might follow. How loosely tethered to the world am I When gulls are calling from a storm-wild sky!