[Vol41 | January 1954 | Sequence: 14 | Category: General Feature | Title: Editorial | Author: Sharp]
Page 35 C— > EDITORIAL moO VOL. 


 NO. 1 A Happier Life THE advent of a new year turns one's mind to his mistakes of the past year, and seems to nourish in the heart a resolution to fill the days that Jie ahead with thoughts and actions which will conform in a closer pattern to that set by the Master in mortality. As one sits alone in review, reflection, and judgment over his faults and failings, there comes, as each succeeding year passes, a deeper realization and a firmer conviction that only as one keeps the two great commandments, to love the Lord with all one's might, mind, and strength, and one's neighbor as oneself, can one become perfect as his Father in heaven is perfect. Because the whole world is made up of neighbors—of individual families—the commandment to love one's neighbor has universal application. To love one's neighbor, however, does not mean to love the unfortunate neighbor residing miles or thousands of miles away, and ignoring or disliking the next-door neighbor. Means of fostering love for one's next-door neighbor is found in the ward unit which the Lord has set up. So long as there are poor, distressed, discouraged, and sorrowful IN ZA Page 36 in the Tlew Year members within the confines of one's own ward, there is a responsibility to show love of neighbor to them. Then, after having thus shown forth love for one's near neighbor, a general love expressed for mankind has real meaning. Of first importance in obeying and living the second commandment is love of one's own family. "Charity begins at home" is in line with the assertion of 'Timothy: "But if any provide not for his own, and specially for those of his own house, he hath denied the faith and is worse than an infidel" (I Timothy 5:8). It is imperative that consideration, appreciation, understanding, helpfulness, and love flow around the family circle which will endure for time and eternity. A woman who pours forth devotion and care on neighbors, while neglecting her own sister, is desregarding a vital part of the second commandment. The person who would overcome envy, greed, jealousy, selfishness, insincerity or more serious sins, will find their cure and a happier life in the new year through learning better to love his neighbors as himself. So the Master commanded all men, so may men become perfect. —M. CS.