[Vol41 | January 1954 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: A Stone | Author: Roberts]
Second Prize Poem A Stonemmudo Wildemvass Dorothy I]. Roberts Not toward your perfections my still steps yearn Nor after lofty-browed nobilities And altars where I watched your fat rams burn; Not to these am I tender, not to these, Nor to the swinging crane of your mind's power, But toward the small and wan perversities Of personality, the weeds in flower; Toward fractured bones of strength a near one sces, Fallen-sparrow failures mated to my own; To the deviations setting you apart, The frailties which were not yours alone, But were parroted upon my secret heart. A thousand wounds my tongue's blade would atone Could it smite with the staff of honesty And release the crystal waters from the stone Of pride and let you drink their truth with me. Page 12 ALICE MORREY BAILEY Third Prize Poem So Shield a King Alice Morrey Bailey He held you in the secret of his heart, Oh, little Bethlehem, oh, House of Bread, And with his hugging hills set you apart, And poured his shining promise on your head. Here Ruth and Boaz found love's steady rock, Here Rachel's tomb was washed with Jacob's tears; Here clear-eyed David watched his trusting flock And sent his sweet songs winging down the years. Though small among earth's cities, short of street— Where shepherds followed out their lowly ways, And gleaners reaped the barren fields of wheat With humble faith and peace along their days— Obedient to his laws, you were the one He chose to be the cradle of his Son. Page 13 14 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1954 He watched them on the roads and led them thence From Nazareth, past Herod's well, by Nain; He saw the faithful Joseph growing tense With fear for Mary, seeking rest in vain Within your bulging walls, his earnest face Reflecting light from door to hopeless door, Until, at last, he found the sheltered place, And rest for Mary on a stable floor. He hid them from the wicked in your crowd, And ears that might have heard a newborn cry Were deaf with sound, the tinkling coins too loud For some to hear hosannahs in the Sky. He saw the shepherds quake; he saw afar The wise men searching out the moving star. X * © &® x Unsought, uncherished, and unchanged as then, Untouched by gold within the fertile ring Of commerce, simple in your ways, as when He needed you to shield a newborn King. A million cities, proud and rich and great, Give homage to your memory tonight, And what was whispered once along your street Is sung from housetops, blazed in rainbow light. Though conquered many times, yours yet shall be The final conquest and the victory! Lizabeth Wall Madsen, Who was born in Mt. P 1941, has ©ontributed mp; leasant, Utah, and lived there unti] any Poems to The Relief Soc; Be Late" Ociety Magazine Her poem "T Shall the Eliza mS * "now Poem Contest in 1946. St of her time being a Secretary in Salt Lake City, and being both Mother anq father to 4 teen-age daughter, Dia Whatever 5 W moments are left até used j Writing, Mostly po tty. Mrs.