[Vol41 | January 1954 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Lesson | Title: LESSON | Author: Monson]
[LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology: Righteousness and Good Government Leland H. Monson]
President Blanche Abbott, in reporting the activities of this enthusiastic group, outlines some of their major projects over the last few years: "We gave dinners and had basket socials.... Our first major undertaking was presenting a concert given by Estaleah H. Baker, wife of the then Commanding General of Ladd Air Force Base. She is a concert singer and donated all the proceeds... To the building fund. We had the concert at the Empress Theater.... We decided each sister would sew one article a month for the bazaar. We had twelve sisters.... We held all our meetings, even when it got to be fifty-six degrees below zero. The sisters from College, five miles from Fairbanks, came in on the bus. We had an average of nine present.... President and Sister McMurrin visited us to bring words of wisdom and love In the fall of 1951 we had our bazaar. We invited the people of the city to come and we had a wonderful bazaar. Everyone was interested in what the 'Mormons' could do. In March 1952, we gave a branch dinner and had 105 present, and the number at that time on the roll of the branch.... In July 1952 President and Sister McMurrin returned North, bringing with them Brother and Sister Joseph Fielding Smith. We had our building completed and ready for dedication and it was indeed a wonderful service when Brother Smith gave the dedicatoy prayer and presented our building to our Heavenly Father for his acceptance. God had indeed blessed the saints in this branch.... No task is too large or too small for any sister in this branch.... We send our love and pray God's richest blessings on all the sisters and their families in this great organization, the Relief Society." Mavil A. McMurnn is president of the Northwestern States Mission Relief Society. 52 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1954 + NRG, ie 3, We; Photograph submitted by Virginia R. Vaterlaus MONTPELIER STAKE (IDAHO) SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE AND PRESENT EASTER CANTATA, 1953 Cathrine Mumford, stake music director, who invited this group to sing for stake quarterly conference, is seated at the left on the first row of the left section. Seated in the third row, in the left section, are stake Relief Society officers: Drucilla Winters, Second Counselor; Virginia R. Vaterlaus, President; Martha Sorenson, First Counselor.