[Vol41 | January 1954 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Fiction | Title: Work | Author: Gardner]
[Work Meeting: Spending Your Home Furnishings Dollar — Soft Floor Coverings Rhea H. Gardner]

Browning was fascinated by the workings of evil in man, because wherever there is evil there must also be inner conflict and struggle— a complexity of motives which challenge his powers of perception and creation. 'Then, too, Browning believed that, since this life is largely a testing ground, it would not fulfill its purpose were evil non-existent. Finally, the presence of evil in a person did not make him less than human. Despite our weaknesses, Browning believed we should regard each other with understanding and sympathy. Love for mankind, then, enabled Browning to depict all types of characters. Browning's more typical use of love, however, was to elevate the beauty, the worth of married love; here the truth of human love becomes the very keystone of his view of life. Browning's love poems are numerous, and saturated with his burning testimony that love between the sexes is the highest good on earth. In "The Last Ride Together' (not in our text), the poem concludes: What if we still ride on, we two With life forever old yet new, Changed not in kind but in degree, The instant made eternity,— And heaven just prove that I and she Ride, ride together, forever ride? Others of his love poems are, "In a Gondola" (text, page 660); "Meeting at Night" (text, page 666); "Two on the Campagna," "Tove Among the Ruins," and "My Star" (text, page 681), all acknowlPage 51 62 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1954 edging the power of mortal love, yet all tending to spiritualize this relationship into something divine. As long as English is spoken, Elizabeth Barrett Browning's Sonnets From the Portuguese will never be forgotten by a world which loves a lover. Particularly memorable is "How do I love thee? Let me count the ways " (text, page 714) which might well be read in presenting this lesson. Robert answered his lover in kind, notably in "My Star" (text, page 681) and the poem to The Ring and the Book which was dedicated to his wife: O lyric Love, half angel and half bird, And all a wonder and a wild desire— Boldest of hearts that ever braved the sun, Took sanctuary within the holier blue, And sang a kindred soul out to his face— Yet human at the red-ripe of the heart— (text, page 707, lines 1-5) Here indeed is a great love uniting two great hearts. However, Robert Browning's greatest writings are not his love poems. To serious students of Browning, probably some of his best-loved poems are "My Last Duchess" (text, page 659); "The Bishop Orders His Tomb at St. Praxed's Church" (text, page 670); and "Rabbi Ben Ezra" (text, page 698). The Dramatic Monologue Browning is one of the most modern of Victorian poets. So much did he expect of readers that, for the most part, they were bewildered and could make nothing of him. Two sources of his difficulty should be mentioned. First, Browning had saturated himself so completely with his historical and imaginary materials that, to an extent, he freed himself from details in his intense concern for creating the whole. This goal of condensing into a few concentrated lines a living, unified character was so strong that Browning sometimes neglected relationship between the parts, and his readers became confused. A second cause, producing similar difficulties, was that Browning chose the spoken monologue as his medium, and with his goal of bringing the reader immediately and intimately into a dramatic, crucial moment in the life of the speaker, the monologue wanders loosely from one idea to another, and supplies little connection between widely scattered subjects. My Last Duchess Note to Class Leaders: In presenting "The Last Duchess' it would be advantageous for copies of the poem to be in the hands of class members. Surely, for many readers, if they have loved one poem in English literature it has been "My Last Duchess" (text, page 659). And justly so, for where else in fifty-six lines is condensed an entire way of life as exemplified by two characters whom we come to know as well as these? The great delight in the poem comes when it ends abruptly and we begin to realize how far we have come in so short a distance. Then a few casual comments on a portrait are recognized for the masterpiece they are, in which every brush stroke reveals to us far more than the Duke of Fertara intended, LESSON DEPARTMENT The scene of the poem is an upper hallway or gallery in the palace of the Italian Duke. The time is the sixteenth century, when Italian royalty was at the height of its wealth, power, and love of culture. The Duke has slipped away from the main company of guests to discuss with a Count's envoy his request for the Count's daughter as a bride. Previous to the opening of the poem, the two men have probably been strolling about, discussing practical details for the marriage contract, interspersed with proud explanatory comments by the Duke on his various art treasures as the two men pass them by. They approach a curtained portrait; the Duke draws back the curtain, and the poem begins as the two men stand admiring the painting. In contrast to "My Future Duchess" just being discussed, here is my last one, but said so impersonally that she might have been but one of many, even as the new one may be, should she prove herself unworthy.