Sharing Your Sreasure To President George Albert Smith on His Eightieth Birthday Berta Huish Christensen Your fathers' father helped to plant the seed _Of liberty in virgin Plymouth soil, The growing tendrils fed by faith and toil Until they interlace a nation's length. His love of freedom shaped your patriot strength. Perhaps from him you learned of labor's worth; Your spirit, mellowed to compassion, flows In warm and deepened currents. Quick to sense Another's loss, or bitterness or grief, You spread a kindliness, like manna, on our need. That we are all God's children—your belief, Sharing your treasure with the least of us—your creed, And love your only weapon or defense. As wind that blows across a threshing floor, You winnow error from the past, but keep Its wisdom, holding faith with all Who know his word; linked in prophetic chain, You humbly wear the mantle of your call. You know the questing song that young hearts sing, For you have walked the upland path with youth, Have shared their reach of dreams, and with them spanned The barrier miles upon a silver wing. Yours has been the vessel outward bound— A golden largess for our sons and daughters; And now your autumn hours are richly blessed By its return, to bring such kindnesses As you have cast, like bread upon the waters. The Cover: "Lily of Easter," Photograph by Willard Luce. An Exemplar to All Men A Birthday G. Reeting: So President George Albert Smith President David O. McKay Of the First Presidency and thousands of other admiring friends express congratulations and good wishes to President George Albert Smith on his eightieth birthday, there will be awakened in their minds, as jewels in a diadem, the many virtues that contribute to his noble character. From these I will mention only two —Love and Trust—as I pay a brief tribute to him with whose close ac- - quaintance and association I have been honored for over half a century. 'To virtues that contribute to success in life, these two are what the diamond and the pearl are to other precious gems. A S members of the Church Love for Fellow Men When Jesus was asked to name the greatest of all commandments, he answered: "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets." This truth President Smith has exemplified throughout his life. As a true representative of his Lord he has gone about doing good—administering to the sick, comforting the bereaved, kindly admonishing the wayward, visiting the fatherless and the widows, pointing out the Page 220 light of the gospel to those hitherto blind to its glories—winning gratitude from those who had thought themselves dealt with unjustly, and gaining merited favor from men in high places. Truly, in deeds of love and kindly service, he stands out as one | who loves his fellow men; consequently "his name leads all the rest" as one who loves the Lord. Keeping Unsullied an Honored Name Every normal person born into this world brings with him a mighty responsibility—his ancestral lineage. If that lineage was noble when he received it, his responsibility is to keep it noble, and pass it on to the next generation unsullied. If the lineage possesses weakness, it is the responsibility of the inheritor to strengthen and pass to his descendants a higher and better standard. One of the most impressive of Paul's appeals to 'Timothy was—"Keep the trust committed to thy care." Daniel Webster was once asked what was the greatest thought that had ever occupied his mind, and he answered: "The consciousness of duty—to pain us forever if it is violated, and to console us so far as God has given us grace to perform it." In keeping the trust committed to him by a noble ancestry, in holding high the standards of an inspired parentage, President Smith AN EXEMPLAR TO ALL MEN has set an example worthy of imitation by young men and young women not only in the Church, but also throughout the world. Undoubtedly, one of the happiest experiences of his life came to him when in a dream or vision he met his departed grandfather. "I remember," he said when relating the experience, "how happy I was to see him coming. I had been given his name, and had always been proud of it. "When Grandfather came within a few feet of me, he stopped. His stopping was an invitation for me to stop. Then—and this I, would like the boys and girls and young people never to forget—he looked at me very earnestly and said: '] would like to know what you have done with my name.' "Everything I had ever done passed before me as though it were a flying picture on a screen—everything I had done. Quickly this vivid retrospect came down to the very time I was standing there. My whole life had passed before me. | smiled and looked at my grandfather and said: 'I have never done anything with your name of which you need be ashamed.' "He stepped forward and took me in his arms, and as he did so, I became conscious again of my earthly surroundings. My pillow was as wet as though water had been 221 poured on it—wet with tears of gratitude that I could answer unashamed. "I have thought of this many times, and I want to tell you that I have been trying, more than ever since that time, to take care of that name. So I want to say to the boys and girls, to the young men and women, to the youth of the Church and of all the world: Honor your fathers and your mothers. Honor the name that you bear, because some day you will have the privilege and the obligation of reporting to them (and to your Father in heaven) what you have done with their name." Love of the Lord and of one's fellows expressed in thoughtful, kindly deeds, a trust kept inviolate by living a clean, upright life— these are godlike virtues contributing to a nobility of soul, and are outstanding traits of our beloved President's character. Dear President: Eighty years true to self!—most of those years spent in service to your fellow men, and therefore in loving service of the Christ whose authorized servant you are—we extend to you affectionate greetings and congratulations! Joy and peace attend you on this your Natal Day, and God's choicest blessings be yours on each of many Happy Returns! Ahr I am grateful to my Heavenly Father that I was born in this land of the free, in this great nation, in this valley, among the people who have dwelt here. I am thankful for the companionship during my life of the best men and women that can be found anywhere in the world both at home and abroad. We are here to listen to the inspiration that will flow from him to us. We are here to say by our prayers and by our singing voices, "'Heavenly Father, we thank thee for all that we enjoy," This Ba blessed privilege —President George Albert Smith, Conference Address, April 4, 1947. '