Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, April 1, and April 15, 1890 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomeEN oF ALL NATIONS" THE GOSPEL AT HOME: It may well be said this people have a history, and as is often remarked a peculiar history; they have been denominated a modern Israel and the name is an appropriate and significant one. The people of the earth are assuredly flocking to Zion; they come singly and in large parties, and they inquire concerning this and that, and there is a good opportunity to give information on Gospel subjects. COQUETTISH APRIL So doth fair April herald in the Spring, And seemingly delighted to tease and vex; Her wonderful allurements she doth bring. Sometimes to charm but oftener to perplex. —E. B. W. NOTES AND NEWS: The estate of Robert Browning amounted to eightyfive thousand dollars—all earned by writing poetry. R. S. GENERAL CONFERENCE: The first Annual Confereace of the Relief Society of all the Stakes of Zion, was held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall in this City on Monday, April 7, 1890 commencing at 10: a. M. Mrs. Zina D. H. Young presiding. Pres. Zina Young welcomed the congregation in her most happy manner, said we were living in a peculiar time, yet never felt better, realized the beginning of the end was near at hand; felt so anxious concerning the daughters of Zion, that she would give her life, if it would save them from the many snares and temptations surrounding them at the present time. E. B. W., Cor. Sec. OVER THE HILLS Over the hills to a land far away, Far away from all sorrowing gloom, From blight and disease, from mortal decay, To a spring-time of immortal bloom. Over the hills, tried soul, speed thy flight, To that glorious land of the blest Where day endeth not in darkness of night, Dangers never intrude to molest. MISCELLANEOUS: If you could once make up your mind never to undertake more work of any sort than you can carry on calmly, quietly, without hurry or flurry, and the instant you feel yourself growing nervous, would stop and take breath; you would find this simple, common sense rule doing for you what no prayers or tears could ever accomplish.—Elizabeth Prentiss. There are two freedoms—the false, where man is free to do what he likes; the true, where man is free to do what he ought.—Kingsley Page 250 RS. ISAAC A. CLAYTON (Fanny Young), daughter of President Brigham Young and his wife Mary Van Cott, died January 31, at the age of eighty years. Her passing leaves her sister, Mabel Young Sanborn, as the last living child of President Brigham Young. These two sisters were honored guests last summer at the Chicago Railroad Fair. Until Mr. Clayton's health failed, he and his wife visited every year, on the anniversary of their wedding, the Logan Temple, where they were married. She bore adversity, particularly the tragic drowning of her son Waldemar and his wife Juliet, with a noble fortitude. A lady in the finest sense of the word, Sister Clayton also had great faith, and she offered some of the most beautiful and reverent prayers heard among the people. ERNA WRIGHT GODDARD, wife of J. Percy Goddard, died last November 26. She had served in the general presidency of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association for eleven years. Sister Goddard knew the art of giving happiness and comfort to all around her. Her magnetic personality drew to her the love of young people, and her inspirational work among the youth will not be forgotten.