renewal of the earth, for, as the Bible so beautifully expresses our joy, "Lo, the winter is past... The flowers appear on the earth; the time of the singing of birds is come." As members of the Church, we realize, also, the great significance of this season of beauty and gladness. According to our understanding, it was this time of the year when Jesus was born; when he was crucified and resurrected, and walked again on the Judean hills with his disciples. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was organized April 6, 1830, reaffirming and illuminating the ancient truths which existed before the earth was created. In commemoration of this event, the annual general conferences of the Church are held in April and the sixth day of the month is included in the sessions. It is well at this time to recall the day one hundred and twenty years ago when six young men met at the Whitmer farm in western New York and organized the Church. The significance of that event has been described as "'a day now revered by hundreds of thousands a day to be held in sacred veneration throughout all time until the Messiah himself shall come." The ancient faith, which Page 252 had been lost, was once more revealed in purity, restored to earth, and established by the covenant of witnesses. The youthful Prophet described the solemnity of the occasion in words of great simplicity, glowing with the splendor of truth: Having opened the meeting by solemn prayer... We proceeded, according to previous commandment, to call on our brethren to know whether they accepted us as their teachers in the things of the Kingdom of God, and whether they were satisfied that we should proceed and be organized as a Church according to said commandment which we had received. To these several propositions they consented by a unanimous vote. I then laid my hands upon Oliver Cowdery, and ordained him an Elder... After which he ordained me also to the office of an Elder.... We then laid our hands on each individual member of the Church present, that they might receive the gift of the Holy Ghost, and be confirmed members of the Church.... We now proceeded to call out and ordain some others of the brethren to different offices of the Priesthood, according as the Spirit manifested unto us; and after a happy time spent in witnessing and feeling for ourselves the powers and blessings of the Holy Ghost, through the grace of God bestowed upon us, we dismissed with the pleasing knowledge that we were now individually members of, and acknowledged of God, "the Church of Jesus Christ,"' organized in accordance with commandments and revelations given by Him to ourselves in these last days. (Joseph Smith, the Prophet, History of the Church, I, pp. 77-79-) Today we are privileged to have A TIME FOR REJOICING as our leader President George Albert Smith, who reaches his eightieth birthday on April 4th. He again exemplifies the directing hand of our Heavenly Father in establishing as his special witnesses men of great faith and singleness of purpose. President Smith's ideals are revealed in his integrity and generosity. He walks among the children of men with that grandeur of spirit and simplicity of manner which have characterized so many of the leaders of the Father's kingdom in all the dispensations. Hearing his voice in the assemblies of our people, we feel a deep conviction of respect and reverence. The spirit of our Heavenly Father so freely. 253 is with him—this realization, deep and abiding, comes to us on many occasions, and our lives are given direction and illumination by the Prophet who presides in these latter days. As Relief Society women, we feel that we are blessed to live at this time, to partake of the lofty spirituality and the deep and gracious kindliness which our President gives May his days be filled with strength from our prayers, and the prayers of others, for his welfare, and may health be given him, and comfort, and may we express our appreciation through increased loyalty and devotion to him and to the Church. —V. P. C.