announcement. "I don't know," said Linnie of?" give that doubtfully. "Daddy never charged anything." "Go to it! Go to it!" clacked little old Mrs. Lewis. "I've not had so much fun since my house burned down." T last it was done. The bill for the window treatment was so steep that Edith had vertigo every time she thought about it. "If I have to, I'll pay it myself," she said, but the result was elegance itself. The dining room curtains, in an ample criss-cross of white organdy, were cool and crisp, and the living room draperies, in a subdued floral pattern, were so lovely that Linnie pulled the cords that swept them closed and open with sheer delight. Every prism of the chandeliers was diamond bright, every tile of the fireplace shone, every spindle of the intricately designed mantle. On the tiny, round platforms of it, Edith had placed her rare bits of Dresden that Marvin had bought for her. It was rich against the golden brown wall. They all gazed in awe at their handiwork. All Edith had to do now was to think, with growing alarm, of the reckoning, when Mr. Lewis should come home and learn of her highhandedness, but her worst night- DARK IN THE CHRYSALIS mares were not as bad as the truth, for he came home the next evening, while they were dining in state. Linnie flew to greet him; he greeted his mother, wheeling after her, with a puzzled look of surprise. "Mother," he said kissing her. He looked weary. Amanda." "Look at our house, daddy! Isn't it lovely?" Linnie cried. She flew from piece to piece, the tale of their endeavors tumbling in bright words from her lips. "All of it," she. Finished, "is due to Aunt Edith—it's her furniture. And it's all paid for except the—" "I charged the window decorations," Edith said flatly. "The bill is quite high." Cory looked about, at the windows, at the whole room. Then he went from one point to another, "Mrs. Ashe, | 275 examining minutely every detail, his face completely impassive. 'They were silent, rooted in a kind of fascinated terror. Once Amanda ventured to say: "Tl set another place, Mr. Lewis. We were having dinner and there's plenty—" "No thank you, Amanda. I ate on the diner." He finished his scrutiny in silence and started toward the stairs without a word, passing his bag where he had dropped it beside the door. Linnie flew after him. "Daddy! Daddy! I didn't think you'd care. I sold the furniture for the money. I did so much want a beautiful wedding reception." Mr. Lewis answered not a word, but went on up the stairs without a backward glance. (To be continued ) Tino G we ITle Words Grace M. Candland