Our April Short Story Writers Nellie Iverson Cox, St. George, Utah, lives on a ranch and is the mother of six children, Mrs. Cox describes her literary activities as being, at present, a hobby. "My first baby's first pair of shoes was bought with the money I received from the sale of my first poem. Only recently have I attempted story writing and have had two accepted for publication. My poetry has appeared in five different publications and I am at present writing the history of my grandfather, Hans Peter Iverson, a pioneer of 1861 in the "Cotton Mission" of Southern Utah. He wrote poetry, too, and I call his story 'Poet and Pioneer.' " Sylvia Probst Young, Midvale, Utah, tells us that the needs of her family put writing in a secondary place, and she has other hobbies as well. "Reading is one of the most important, some of my dearest friends are books, and the fact that I prefer Charles Dickens and O'Henry to most modern writers, makes me quite old-fashioned, I'm sure. I don't profess to have a 'green thumb,' but I do enjoy gardening—the feel of soil in my fingers and the thrill of watching things grow. But one thing I enjoy most of all is being the mother of three active little boys. That I wouldn't trade for anything in the world." Blanche Kendall McKey, now living in Washington, D. C., is the sister of Senator Elbert D. Thomas. Her sisters are Kate Thomas (deceased) and Rose Thomas Graham, both gifted writers. As a young girl, Blanche appeared in New York City theatres and on tour as an actress with Richard Mansfield, Sir Henry Irving, and other famous actors. She played Tirzah in Ben Hur and Hope Brower in Eben Holden, and later married William Richard McKey, who was starring as "Eben." After her husband's death, Blanche, as the widowed mother of two small children, became a school teacher at Weber and Ricks Colleges and, as head of the speech de- OUR APRIL SHORT STORY WRITERS 287 partments, presented many plays, among them being dramas of her own composition. A versatile and talented writer, she has won many awards in poetry, story writing, and dramatic composition, ini ARS cluding awards in the Relief Society literary - Nw contests, and in 1947 her play "Lamps ROEBUCK AND CO. Of Glory" was presented in the Salt Lake Tabernacle. Pansye H. Powell, a teacher in Fast High School, Salt Lake City, Utah, is PA PK FREE! A graduate of the University of Missouri e and has studied also at Columbia University. Her son Michael is now a student SHOP E A S$ y! At the University of Utah. A poet of e distinction and excellent craftsmanship, Mrs. Powell has been awarded many FE M ORF! Prizes, including four awards in the SA V e League of Utah Writers' contests. In | 1949 she placed third in national competition for the Huckleberry Contest At your nearest Sears Store, prizes. Her poetry has appeared in where you'll find that GOOD many anthologies, her sonnets being parQUALITY ALWAYS COSTS ticularly meritorius. Mrs. Powell, a member of the Art Barn Poets and the Poets YOU LESS! Of the Pacific, is busily engaged in furthering the cause of good poetry in her work as chairman of Observance of Poetry Day in Utah. "A Chaperon for Miss Fanny" is Mrs. Powell's second published story. PRESERVE YOUR = RELIEF SOCIETY