[Vol34 | May 1947 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Article | Title: The Mothers of the Members of the Quorum of the Twelve Camilla E. Kimball]
Member  of  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve 
JETHRO,  the  wise  father-in-law 
of  the  Prophet  Moses,  charac- 
terized an  able  man  as  one  who 
feared  God,  loved  the  truth,  and 
hated  covetousness.  As  measured  by 
that  characterization,  Henry  D. 
Moyle,  newly  sustained  member  of 
the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Lat- 
ter-day Saints,  is  an  able  man— he 
fears  God,  loves  the  truth,  and  hates 
covetousness.  Again  paraphrasing 
another  statement  from  the  scrip- 
tures recording  the  Apostle  Paul's 
Page  302 
appraisal  of  his  beloved  Timothy's 
ancestry— "the  unfeigned  faith  that 
is  in  thee,  which  dwelt  first  in  thy 
grandmother  Lois,  and  thy  mother 
Eunice  .  .  .  and  in  thee  also"— it  can 
also  be  said  that  not  alone  are  these 
qualities  to  be  found  in  this  man 
whom  the  Church  has  honored  with 
the  highest  position  it  can  bestow, 
but  like  qualities  were  also  in  his  fa- 
ther James  H.  Moyle  and  his  mother 
Alice  E.  Dinwoodey,  who  are  true 
representatives  of  the  finest  pioneer 
blood  of  this  generation.

ELDER  HENRY  D.  MOYLE  303 
Now,  to  briefly  chronicle  the  his-  experience  and  accomplishment  that 
tory  of  his  life  to  the  present  time:  will  be  of  inestimable  worth  to  these 
He  was  born  in  Salt  Lake  City,  April  councils.  He  is  not  unknown  to  the 
22,  1889.  He  received  his  early  edu-  body  of  the  Church,  for  during  the 
cation  in  the  schools  of  Utah  and  past  ten  years  he  has  visited  many 
received  his  bachelor  of  science  de-  of  the  stakes  of  Zion  as  an  able  teach- 
gree  from  the  University  of  Utah,  er  and  a  fearless  exponent  of  the 
and  a  law  degree  from  the  Univer-  principles  of  the  Welfare  Program. 
sity  of  Chicago,  and  did  graduate  But,  as  always  with  a  man  of  such 
work  at  the  University  of  Freiberg  qualities  and  high  attainments,  there 
in  Germany  and  at  Harvard  Uni-  is  another  side  less  heralded  or  pub- 
versity.  His  scholastic  education  was  licized.  In  the  quiet  of  his  beautiful 
interrupted  for  three  years  while  he  home  in  Holladay,  there  are  his  most 
served  as  a  missionary  for  the  Church  treasured  possessions  and  accom- 
in  Germany.  During  the  first  World  plishments,  his  lovely  wife  and  corn- 
War  he  served  with  distinction  as  a  panion  Alberta  Wright,  whom  he 
captain  in  an  infantry  division.  As  an  married  in  1919,  and  his  four  daugh- 
attorney  he  achieved  the  high  place  ters,  Alice,  Marie,  Virginia,  and  Janet 
of  United  States  District  Attorney  and  his  two  sons  Henry  and  Richard, 
for  Utah.  His  principal  business  in-  You  haven't  seen  the  full  beauty  in 
terests  have  been  with  the  Deseret  this  man's  soul  until  you  have  seen 
Livestock  Company,  and  with  three  him  as  I  have,  waking  his  baby  Rich- 
oil  companies,  the  Inland  Empire  ard  at  midnight  to  fondle  him  or  to 
Oil  Refinery  at  Spokane,  Washing-  tiptoe  into  the  bedroom  as  we  did 
ton,  the  Wasatch  Oil  Refining  Com-  the  other  night,  together,  to  see  his 
pany,  and  the  Idaho  Oil  Refining  latest  grandson  whom  he  calls  his  lit- 
Company,  all  of  which  he  was  large-  tie  "Patootie."  Father  love  was  never 
ly  instrumental  in  organizing.  more  in  evidence  than  when  you  see 
In  his  growing-up  years  he  was  this  man,  with    pardonable    pride, 
always  active  in  the  Church,  and  for  listening  to  music  played  by  one  of 
ten  years  presided  as  the  president  his  accomplished  daughters,  or  coun- 
of  the   Cottonwood  Stake  in   Salt  seling  with  his  son  "Hank"  about 
Lake  County.    Because  of  his  vigor-  his  cow  or  chicken  projects.    With 
ous  leadership  as  a  stake  president  in  the  love  and  inspiration  of  such  a 
getting  the  Welfare  Program  of  the  wife,  and  the  loyalty  and  support  of 
Church  under  way  in  his  stake,  he  such  a  family,  this  father  has  had,  in 
was  appointed  in  July  1936  by  the  them,  some  of  the  essentials  to  high 
First  Presidency  a  member  of    the  and  worthwhile  achievement. 
General  Church  Welfare  Commit-         After  I  was  asked  to  prepare  this 
tee  where,  a  year  later,  he  became  the  article  I  searched  some  of  his  writings 
chairman,  which  position  he  holds  and  written  addresses  to  find  a  state- 
at  the  present  time.  ment  that  would  reveal  the  source 
So,  at  fifty-eight  years  of  age,  Hen-  of  the  characteristic  driving  qualities 
ry  D.  Moyle  brings  into  the  councils  of  his  life.    I  think  I  found  it  in  this 
of  the  General  Authorities   of  the  quotation :  "With  faith  in  God,  with 
Church  a  strength  of  character,  a  vig-  faith  in  our  own  destiny,  and  with  in- 
or  of  manhood,  and  a  background  of  (Continued  on  page  359)

THE  ELDRED  G.  SMITH  FAMILY