THE ELDRED G. SMITH FAMILY Seated, left to right: Elder Eldred G. Smith; Gordon Raynor; Jeanne Ness Smith. Standing, left to right: Audrey Gay; Miriam; Eldred Gary. Elder Eldred G. Smith Named Patriarch to the Church Elder Edwin Q. Cannon President, Ensign Stake BECAUSE of my privilege of close association with Eldred G. Smith, I take pleasure in setting forth the knowledge and im-pressions I have concerning him. My first observance of him was when he took up his residence in the Twentieth Ward in which I resided, in November 1936. I was especially attracted to him because of the great faith I had in his father, Hyrum G. Smith, as the Church Patriarch. I had received from him a patriarchal blessing from which I had derived much comfort, Page 304 guidance, and assurance. When, later, I became bishop, I chose him as one of my counselors. This place he occupied from May 1938 until March 1940, when he was taken into the Ensign Stake High Council. When the ward was divided in March 1941, he was chosen bishop of the North Twentieth Ward. ELDER ELDRED G. SMITH While occupying these positions he was faithful, unassuming, humble, and an indefatigable worker. In addition to his heavy Church obligations, he and Sister Smith had real responsibilities at home, as twins were born during that time and, with a family of very young children, there was much to think about and things were not easy. He remodeled his home, including papering and painting, doing most of the work himself. The only time he had for this was during the night hours. I realized he had really too much to do and at times I felt concerned over his ability to keep up the strenuous life, even though he met it cheerfully and gratefully. Never did he utter a word of complaint. In January 1944 he took a defense position at Oak Ridge, Tennessee, necessitating his resigning as bishop. He was reluctant to do this, but it was wartime. On his way to his destination he stopped at Louisville, Kentucky, to see Brother Graham Doxey, President of the East Central States Mission, with the idea in mind of offering his service, in any way possible in that mission. Because of the secret nature of the work being done at Oak Ridge, he was unable to get permission to hold gatherings in halls provided for such 305 purposes, so he invited the members of the Church to his home, where they held services, using boxes as chairs and table. These gatherings continued until thirty-five children and sixty-five adults were in attendance. Then President Doxey visited Oak Ridge and formed a branch, making Elder Smith branch president. Later, permission was obtained to use the project school building. Many activities were engaged in, such as excursions to other branches in the vicinity, and an outstanding work was accomplished in behalf of the Church. Brother Smith took great pleasure in all of this. Between 1926 and 1929 he fulfilled a mission in Germany for the Church. In August 1932 he married Jeanne Ness who has stood faithfully by him and their lovely family. They have four children, Miriam, twins— Gary and Gay, and Gordon. Besides his devotion to his own family, he has always been affectionately devoted to his widowed mother, Martha G. Smith. THESE THINGS | KNOW Mabel Jones Gabbott These things I know: That night will follow day, And bitter winter means a brighter May; That rain and sunshine lend a bud new life, And peace is sweeter after days of strife. This, too, I know: Love never really dies; Its memories are mirrored in the skies; And pain can cease its pulsing unawares. Above all this: God hears and answers prayers. Relief Society an Aid to Bishops President Belle S. Spafford [This talk was delivered at the request of meeting in the Tabernacle, Friday evening, E sincerely appreciate the opportunity afforded Relief Society of presenting to this great gathering of bishops, upon whom the Lord has placed the responsibility of caring for those in need, a few thoughts as to how Relief Society presidents may be. Of greater assistance to you in this important and sacred work. "The relief of the poor, the destitute, the widow, and the orphan, and the exercise of all benevolent purposes" was one of the primary objects of our Society as set forth by the Prophet Joseph Smith. In this, as in all phases of our program, we work under the direction and guidance of the Priesthood. Relief Society is vitally interested in the Church Welfare Program as it is being carried forward today, and it is anxious to do its part according to the desires and recommendations of the Priesthood authorities who preside over us. In fact, our success as an organization must, in large measure, be gauged by the quality of our contribution to the Welfare Program of the Church. Every member of our Society is afforded opportunity to contribute to the Program by giving sewing service or service on canning or food processing, harvesting, or other Welfare projects. Our Relief Society presidents hold a unique position. They have been termed by Elder Harold B. Lee "the bishop's right-hand Page 306 Bishop LeGrand Richards at the Bishops' April 4, 1947—Ed.] assistants" in his responsible calling of caring for those in need. As an aid to the bishop, it is our opinion that the most valuable contribution a Relief Society president can make is to visit, at his request, the home of each family %r ward member in distress, study its circumstances and needs and then make recommendations to the bishop, in private, as to the care of the family. This service is in harmony with recommendations to bishops in the Church Welfare Handbook of Instructions, which states: Any family reported to be in need should be visited immediately in order that an intelligent analysis may be made. Subsequent assistance should be based on this analysis. Responsibility for this visit and analysis rests with the bishop, but it is recommended that he call upon the ward Relief Society president to make this investigation. In making this analysis careful consideration should be given to all known factors, and recommendations should be made to the bishop for the care of the family, both as to meeting any immediate, urgent needs, and with respect to assisting the family in solving other problems with which it may be confronted. This is a logical assignment for Relief Society presidents since they are qualified by nature and experience for this type of work. Relief Society presidents are women of judgment and spiritual strength, otherwise as bishops you would not have called them to so responsible a position as that of a Relief Society president. They have sisterly, sympathetic insight into family problems.