[Vol34 | May 1947 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Poem | Title: These Things I]

people  of  New  England  depend  up-
on these  industrial  plants  for  live-
lihood, either  as  owners  or  workers.
One  sees  factories  on  every  hand
where  nationally  advertised  articles
and  goods  are  made.  These  articles
range  through  the  whole  gamut  of
manufactures,  from  huge  machines
to  needles  and  thread.
The  New  Englander  was  frugal,
thrifty,  and  resourceful— he  had  to
be.  It  was  certain  and  natural,  there-
fore, that  a  restless  search  for  better
fields  and  opportunities  should  de-
velop early  in  the  settlement  of  New
England.  It  was  natural,  too,  that
the  stress  and  strains  of  life  should
accompany  these  people  as  they
reached  out  for  something  better.
The  concepts  which  had  become  im-
bedded in  their  characters  followed
them  from  colony  to  new  colony,
and  from  New  England  to  terri-
tories lying  in  the  West.  They  were
a  sturdy  people,  accustomed  to  win-
ning their  way  and  willing  to  do  so.
The  conflict  of  ideas  in  the  days
of  Roger  Williams  made  deep  and
lasting  impressions  upon  the  colo-
nists, were  transmitted  to  their  de-
scendants, and  were  carried  by  the
emigrants  into  the  West.  They  had
definite  ideas  of  right  and  wrong  in
social  life  and  in  government  organ-
ization and  administration.  They
had  minds  of  their  own,  and  they
were  not  backward  in  expressing
them;  and  when  the  time  came  to
fight  against  the  mother  country  for
their  conception  of  freedom,  they
were  unafraid,  for  their  heads  were
clear  and  their  hearts  courageous.
Their  descendants,  as  they  moved
elsewhere,  were  proud  of  their  New
England  fathers.
When  Washington  came  to  Cam-
bridge to  take  command  of  the  Con-
tinental Army,  his  mind  was  fixed,
and  he  found  men's  minds  every-
where set  upon  the  great  ideas  and
ideals  that  had  become  a  part  of  the
very  beings  of  the  people.  There
were  numerous  patriots,  such  as  Han-
cock, Adams,  Jefferson,  and  Hamil-
