[Vol34 | May 1947 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Poem | Title: A]

MOTHERS— MAKERS  OF  MEN  299 
house  which  had  been  planned,  Christine  Marie  Andersen  Petersen— 
built,  furnished,  and  decorated  large-  Mother  of  Elder  Mark  E.  Petersen 
ly  with  their  own  hands.  Here,  elev-  Christine  Marie  Andersen  Peter- 
en  children,  seven  sons  and  four  sen  was  born  near  Aalborg,  Den- 
daughters,  were  born  and  reared,  al-  mark,  November  1,  .1872.  At  the  age 
though  Sarah's  life  was  despaired  of  of  sixteen  years  she  became  inter- 
at  the  birth  of  her  oldest  son,  Ezra  ested  in  the  gospel  and  shortly  after- 
Taft.  ward  joined  the  Church. 
While  rearing  her  family,  all  of  While  still  in  her  teens  she  emi- 
whom  were  fully  active  in  the  grated  to  Utah  in  company  with  a 
Church,  she  found  time  to  serve  as  group  of  Danish  Saints  and  mission- 
teacher,  Relief  Society  president,  aries  returning  to  their  homes  in  the 
stake  Primary  executive,  choir  mem-  valleys  of  the  mountains, 
ber,  and  was  in  great  demand  by  the  She  made  her  home  with  friends, 
sick  and  discouraged.  members  of  the   Church,    in    Salt 
In  1912  her  husband  responded  to  Lake.  Here  she  met  Christian  Pet- 
a  call  for  a  mission  to  the  Northern  ersen,  whom  she  afterward  married 
States,  leaving  her  with  seven  chil-  in  the  Salt  Lake  Temple, 
dren.  The  eighth  child  was  born  She  is  a  woman  of  sterling  quali- 
four  months  later.  Half  of  the  farm  ties,  staunch  and  stalwart  in  her 
was  sold  to  finance  the  mission  and  Church  affiliation.  She  has  taught 
a  part  of  the  balance  used  to  feed  a  her  children  to  be  so,  and  takes  great 
dairy  herd  left  in  charge  of  the  fam-  pride  in  their  accomplishments.  She 
ily.  In  spite  of  the  load  carried  by  is  modest  and  retiring, 
this  noble  woman,  it  was  often  said,  She  is  an  immaculate  housekeep- 
"Never  at  any  time  did  we  hear  a  er,  an  expert  seamstress,  and  main- 
murmur  from  her  lips/'  tains  order  in  her  household. 
Sarah  Dunkley  Benson  lived  a  life         Throughout  her  life  she  has  been 
which  seemed  without  flaw,  as  wife,  an  active  member  of   the   Church, 
mother,  and  Latter-day  Saint.  serving  in  the  Relief  Society  over  a 
From  her  sickbed,  where  she  was  period  of  years,   and    having  done 
suffering  from  an  incurable  ailment  temple  work  in  the  Salt  Lake  Tem- 
following    an    operation,    but    un-  pie. 
known  to  her  children,  she  bade  one  She  and  her  husband,  with  their 
of  her  youngest  sons  goodbye,  as  he  five  children,  celebrated  their  gold- 
left  for  the  Southern  States  Mission,  en  wedding  anniversary  three  years 
in  these  words :  "No  matter  what  ago,  with  a  family  gathering  and  din- 
happens  at  home,  I  want  you  to  com-  ner  party  at  the  Hotel  Utah, 
plete  your  mission."  A  few  months 
later    this    heroic    mother    passed  Abbie  Hyde  Cowley— 
peacefully  away.    Almost  a  year  to  Mother  of  Elder  Matthew  Cowley 
the  day,  her  husband  followed  her.  Abbie  Hyde  Cowley  was  born  Jan- 
The  charge  "complete  your  mis-  uary  19,  1863,  at  Hyde  Park,  Utah, 
sion,"  was  fully  honored,  as  her  name  She  was  the  daughter   of  William 
is  honored,  by  a  numerous  posterity  Hyde  and  Abigail  Gloyd;  her  father 
from  eleven  families— her  sons  and  was  a  native  of  New  York,  as  were 
daughters.  his  ancestors  for  some  generations
