=== FRONT MATTER (Cover, Ads, Contents, Advertisers Directory) ===

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Vol. XII SEPTEMBER, 1925 No. 9
CONTENTS

Page


The Farmer's Wife Writes a Poem Annie Pike Greenwood 451
Lake Phoebe (Big Cottonwood Canyon) Alfred Lambourne Frontispiece
The Bible and Emily Post Agnes Bostonne 453
Be Patient Little Flock Theodore E. Curtis 458
A Tribute to John J. McClellan Dr. George W. Middleton 459
Obscurity Bertha A. Kleinman 461
Editorial—The Bible 462
William Jennings Bryan 463
The National Conference of Social Work 463
Baby Wear Vilate Elliot 465
Molly Crossman Breaks a Tradition of Byfield Elsie C. Carroll 467
Beatitudes Lula Greene Richards 475
The Editor Abroad Alice L. Reynolds 476
Humility Elsie E. Barrett 480
Calories for Safety Jean Cox 481
Of Interest to Women Lalene H. Hart 486
A Ripe Peach Ivy Houtz Woolley 488
Notes From the Field Amy Brown Lyman 489
Guide Lessons for November 494

PUBLICATION INFORMATION

Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah
$1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c
Canada and Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15c Single Copy
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah

ADVERTISEMENTS

For our success we are indebted to our friends

Bennett Glass & Paint Co.
65 West First South

KEELEY'S
Call Your Nearest
ICE CREAM
CANDY
CAKE
PUNCHES
deliciously different

Our 30c or 50c Special Brick

PHONE WAS. 3223

GO VIA SAN FRANCISCO TO LOS ANGELES AND RETURN, IT COSTS NO MORE TO SEE ALL OF CALIFORNIA IN ONE COMPLETE TRIP

$49.00

Southern Pacific Lines

PROPORTIONATELY LOW FARE FROM ALL OTHER POINTS IN UTAH, IDAHO AND MONTANA
STOPOVERS ALLOWED AT ALL POINTS
TICKETS ON SALE DAILY
GOOD RETURNING OCTOBER 31, 1925

For Complete Information, Tickets and Reservations, Call Phone or Write
P. BANCROFT, General Agent
41 South Main Street
Wasatch 3078

IN HEALTH

Not in books but in MILK you will find the secret of Health. We offer the city's finest milk and cream—as the majority of your neighbors will tell you.

CLOVER LEAF DAIRY

When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine

SHURTLIFF & ANDREWS
159 West 1st South
Wasatch 2177

ASK YOUR DEALER FOR
Z. C. M. I. FACTORY-MADE

Children's Allovers
Khaki and White-Backed Denim
Dutch Kut, for Boys—

Peggy Clothes, for Girls—

The Famous Mountaineer Overalls
Give Splendid Satisfaction

MOTHERS can determine to a great extent what kind of books their children read. Put good books before your children, and they'll learn to read good books. Let us help you select the "good books"

Deseret Book Company
44 East South Temple
Salt Lake City
P. O. Box 1793

When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine

Money for Home Building
"Ask us about it"

"Regularity of attendance, faithful attention to studies and EXEMPLARY PERSONAL CONDUCT on the part of students are insisted upon. At all times by the administrative bodies of the College."
Excerpt from The College Catalog.

The faculty of the U. A. C. Conceives its duty to its students to include moral and spiritual guidance as well as intellectual development. For this reason parents wisely select the Institution as a most fitting place to send their children.

FALL QUARTER OPENS SEPTEMBER 28th
Send for catalog and illustrated circular

Utah Agricultural College
LOGAN, UTAH

The Reliable Mail Order House
1069 E. 21st SOUTH

Price List for Fall and Winter 1925-26

WE HAVE NO AGENTS, BUY DIRECT AND SAVE FROM 25% TO 30%

No. 51 L. D. S. Garments Fine Rib only in L. D. S. New Style $1.25

Any of the following numbers can be made up in EITHER NEW or OLD STYLE L. D.S. GARMENT or MEN'S or LADIES' Union Suits.

No. 50 Flat Weave $1.50
No. 52 Fine Rib $1.50
No. 54 Bleached Cotton $1.75
No. 56 Unbleached $1.75
No. 58 Heavy Unbleached $2.25
No. 60 Heavy Bleached $2.25
No. 64 Lisle $2.25
No. 66 Merc $2.75
No. 70 1/2 Wool $4.25
No. 73 3/4 Wool $5.50
No. 74 Silk and Wool $7.00

For MEN'S Union Suits ONLY
No. 92 All Worsted Wool Grey $9.50
No. 96 All Worsted Wool Black $9.50

All Wool Blankets 5 lb. Double 66-80 $8.50
All Wool Overcoats $18.50
All Wool Men's Sweater Coats $6.25
All Wool Men's Shirts $5.75

If you are not perfectly satisfied with any of our goods, we refund the money

WRITE FOR SAMPLES

Why Pay More For Ladies' Silk Hose When You Can Get A Pure Silk Hose in Any Shade for $1.00

When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine

Competent Workers Are Well Paid

There is dignity, satisfaction and financial reward in a good office position. Our courses qualify you in a short time for one of these most desirable places. Let us show you what our graduates have done and are doing. Let us prove the value of our training.

Fall Term Begins September 8
Call or Write Now!

L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

And Here's September!

This is the best month of the year for putting in your supply of coal. It comes to you better prepared and your dealer is better able to make prompt delivery.

Order CLEAR CREEK or CASTLE GATE coal today.

UTAH FUEL CO.
Judge Building, Salt Lake City

Temple and Burial Clothes

Complete Suits for Men and Women
Variety of Grades and Prices
Prompt and Careful Attention
Mail—Telephone—Telegraph Orders
Open Daily, 9 a.m.—5 p.m.

General Board Relief Society
Phone Wasatch 3286
23 Bishop's Building
Salt Lake City, Utah

When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine

TROY LAUNDRY
Distinctive Work
Hyland 190
Office 319 S. Main St.
Salt Lake City

Ask for one of our folders describing the different services we offer.

RENT a PIANO

Rent a Piano. In Salt Lake City or Nearby. Apply all Rent on Later Purchase.

"We won't buy till we get our new home." Or "we won't buy till we're sure if the children take their lessons." These are common excuses we meet—but both objections are now obliterated by our easy rental plan. Come in—see us about it. No obligation.

Daynes-Beebe Music Co.
SALT LAKE CITY
Older THAN THE STATE OF Utah

Fall Bulb Special Trial Order Offer
For The Window Garden

2 Calla Lilies Ass't
3 Purity Freesias
3 Rainbow Colored Freesias
6 Giant White Narcissus

Regular Value of above collection $1.25
Trial Order offer 75c postpaid

These bulbs are for indoor culture and are now ready for planting. Some of them will bloom within 6 weeks. Full Cultural Directions with each Order. Bulbs and Plants for Outdoor planting will be ready in September and October.

Write for Free Catalog

Porter-Walton Co.
Seed and Nursery Specialists
Salt Lake City

In Larkin Undertaking Service You Have the Softened, Sympathetic Skill of Twenty-five Years' Experience

We Are Now Located in our New Funeral Home at
260 EAST SOUTH TEMPLE ST.
Salt Lake City

Telephones: Was. 5732 and Hyland 180

Ogden, 466 24th St.
Telephone 821-W

When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine

POEM

The Farmer's Wife Writes a Poem
Annie Pike Greenwood

Lake Phoebe, Big Cottonwood Canyon
ALFRED LAMBOURNE

 THE Relief Society Magazine 
Vol. XII SEPTEMBER, 1925 No. 9
The Bible
Members of the present generation know more about the Bible as a literary product than other generations have known. The series of books on the Bible as literature, written by Prof. Richard Green Moulton, has done much to quicken the conscience of the English speaking people in this respect. Yet there are periods of time behind us when people had a more intimate knowledge of the Bible than we have. So thorough was their acquaintance with the book that all the writings of the day seemed to take on a beauty of form and majesty of movement characteristic of Bible literature. We can never forget the fact that the age that produced Shakespeare, the greatest of all our British writers of drama, and Milton, the greatest of our English epic poets, also gave us the inimitable King James translation of the Bible. We were not a little startled some time ago to hear one of the guest professors of the summer, in one of our colleges, state that the oaths used by the Elizabethan dramatists show a more intimate knowledge of the Bible than our serious writings of today. Whatever be the merit of the books of today, whatever be the line of information imparted, the Bible must always remain the Book of all books. It is a reservoir of information on an infinite number of subjects, and is a pattern of beauty and finish in the realm of artistic letters. As bread is to our diet, as sunshine is to plant life, so is the
EDITORIAL 463
Bible in the realm of books. It is the chiefest and best, and for it there can be no substitute.
William Jennings Bryan
No woman's journal, no religious magazine, can be silent on the death of William Jennings Bryan, least of all a journal that champions the cause both of woman and of religion. Mr. Bryan advocated Woman's Suffrage long before it became a popular cause with any political party that hoped to win by putting it into its platform. And he advocated it, not because he thought it would win him votes in a political campaign, but because it was inherently right, because it would be an act of simple justice to woman. As for the other, he was a champion of the Bible in an age when that Book is losing its influence as a religious guide. "The Bible is good enough for me," were almost his last words. His enemies charged that he believed that volume literally, but this was not true. He believed what it says of God, of the immortality of the soul, and of another life, because divine revelation is the only means by which man can learn of these things. He believed God to be a God of power, interested in His creatures here below?not a mere machinelike influence ignoring man and his aims. Also he believed Him to be a personage, after whose image man was made. Bryan's last passionate appeal for the truths of the Holy Scriptures, together with the dramatic manner in which he passed away, will do much to brace timid belief that is on the fence these days and the days to come.
The National Council of Social Work
In his presidential address at the opening session of the National Conference of Social Work, William J. Norton, of Detroit, upheld love as the mainspring of social work. Love he described as the "thin film of protection between the wheels of life which lubricates them and keeps the whole machine from burning out in the merciless friction of living," as the force which "lifts man from the plane of the beasts and stretches his stature upward until he can see and hear God." The same theme expressed in terms of more tolerance and forbearance, less race prejudice, greater protection for childhood and youth, better ways and means of promoting all phases of
464 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
human welfare, ran through the eleven sections of the conference. This was the fifty-second annual meeting of the Conference of Social Work. It was held at Denver, Colorado, June 10-17, 1925. Many noted educators, physicians, judges, statesmen and sociologists appeared on the programs of the various meetings. Utah contributed two speakers to the conference?President Franklin S. Harris of the Brigham Young University, Provo, who, says the July issue of the "Survey," "made a strong plea for mutual forbearance and understanding;" Miss Adaline Buffington, general secretary Charities Organization Society, Salt Lake City, who spoke on the "Automobile Migrant" And whose discussion of the subject called forth much favorable comment. On the program of the general sessions were such subjects as: "The Menace of Racial and Religious Intolerance," the "Child Labor Amendment," "What Shall We Do About War," "Social Aspects of the Japanese Question." The conference was divided into eleven divisions as follows: Children, Delinquents and Correction, Health, The Family, Industrial and Economic Problems, Neighborhood and Community Life, Mental Hygiene, and so on. The status of women in the new profession of social work and the quality of the leadership they have to contribute was borne out by the election of Miss Gertrude Vaile, a native of Colorado and secretary of the Department of Charities and Corrections of that state, to the presidency; and the election of Dr. Miriam Van Waters, referee of the Juvenile Court of Los Angeles, to the vice-presidency. Such women as Jane Addams, Grace Abbott, Edith Abbott, Julia Lathrop, Dr. Valeria Parker, Judge Mary M. Bartelme served on committees and contributed to the discussions of the conference. Utah was represented by forty-three delegates. From the Relief Society were, Louise Y. Robison, Amy Brown Lyman, Julia A. Child, Julia A. F. Lund, Amy W. Evans of the General Board; President Emmaretta G Brown, of the Granite stake; President Electa S. Dixon, of Utah stake; Marie H. Tanner, secretary of Grant stake; Mabel W. James and Bae Williams, of Ensign stake; five members of the staff of the welfare department; and the social worker of Utah stake. Clarissa A. Beesley, of the Y. L. M. I. A., Oscar A. Kirkham of the Y. M. M. I. A. And Clara W. Beebe of the Primary Association attended the conference.
Baby Wear
Vilate Elliot, Brigham Young University
The clothing course in which baby wear is offered at the Brigham Young University is unique for the reason that the students at the beginning of the course never care to make the articles. They are usually induced to do so by the teacher finding customers who are glad to have them made. Sometimes some member of the student's family is anxious to have them made. It is much better for the student to plan and make them for some friend, or a member of her own family, because in nearly every case, after the articles are finished, they become so much a part of herself she wishes to make them for her own hope-chest. The desire to become. A mother someday is awakened, and as the little dainty articles grow under her fingers, she unconsciously weaves the dreams of her own future into the designs of the tiny article. Long before they are finished they become the most intimate bits of creation. By the time the course is over you will hear some such remark as, "I have promised this to my sister, but I have told her, since it is nearly finished, that her baby may wear it, but I want to keep it." This comment is always a delight to hear, because I know that deep down in her own heart that maternal instinct of motherhood is strongly implanted. She has made one wee bit of a dress and possibly a gertrude, now she wants to go on and make the whole layette. In this way one of the aims of the course is attained. She will always be interested in making a layette. She will always want soft, dainty materials, with simple bits of handwork adorning them. A picture of a few of the baby dresses made in class are shown here. Preceding this class, a course is given in textile decoration where the girls become familiar with different kinds of artistic stitchery; however, the stitches are simple, and can be done easily. These dresses are from twenty to twenty-two inches long, finished. No. 1 has a hem partially cut out, this hem is finished with an embroidered scallop, a dainty little design is worked in the open spaces: this design is also worked at the neck. The hem design is carried out on the sleeve, giving a cuff effect. The little fine scallop around the neck is continued down to the bottom of the placket. A small piece of selvedge edge is placed under the placket with the selvedge on the opposite side of the scallop and embroidered in with it, this acts as a stay for the button holes. No. 2 has a heavily padded scallop with a small space of cutwork placed in between each cluster of scallops. A similar design is carried out in the front and sleeves, No. 1. No. 2. No. 3. No. 4. No. 3 is a dainty scalloped edge with a design, in the center of which is a little cut work. No. 4 is a little jacket made from a 24-inch square of cashmere, or flannel, the jacket is hemstitched around, then finished with a crochet picot edge. The design is shown below. The colors used are pink, blue, yellow, green and lavender. In the original the rambler roses on the line were placed to fit the spaces in the jacket. This same design was used on a dress, it worked up well, the roses were placed from three to four inches apart, with the raised, or broken line, in front. A very attractive design can be arranged for the neck and sleeves.
Molly Crossman Breaks a Tradition of Byfield
By Elsie C. Carroll
Molly laid down the magazine she had been reading and gazed out of the window toward the hills which skirted Byfield, on the east. The first yellows and reds of Autumn were beginning to show on the brown slopes, but Molly was unconscious of the fact. She was trying to interpret the vague something which the article she had just finished reading, had stirred within her. Presently she took up the magazine again and read once more slowly, and thoughtfully, the last part of Laura Drake Gill's "Creed of Work for Women:" "I believe that every woman should expect marriage to interrupt for some years the pursuit of any regular gainful occupation; * * * * and that she should focus her chief thought during the early youth of her children upon the science and art of wise family life. "I believe that every woman should hope to return, in the second leisure of middle life, to some of her early skilled occupations?either as an unsalaried worker in some one of its social phases, or if income be an object, as a salaried worker in a phase of it requiring maturity and social experience. "I believe that this general policy of economic service for American women would yield generous by-products of intelligence, responsibility and. Contentment." It was certain words in the last two paragraphs that had gripped Molly. There was nothing new or striking in thought that women at marriage, should give up all other interests and devote themselves to motherhood and homemaking. That was taken for granted?had been taken for granted through long years of progressing civilization. It was the words, "second leisure of middle age," and the "generous by-product of contentment," which had started this unfamiliar groping in her soul. Gradually it was dawning upon Molly Crossman that the unexplainable loneliness and restlessness and discontent which had been settling down heavier and heavier around her during the past few weeks since Lillian's wedding and departure, and the boy's leaving for college, was something more than the natural void always experienced when members of the family
468 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
went away for short periods or long. It was "the leisure of middle age" stretching before her. Strange she had not seen it coming. Danny had been the only one of the children with them the winter before. But somehow with his High School committee meetings and house parties, Mutual and scout work he had kept things pretty much astir. Then there was usually a dress being fixed over to send to Lillian or a box of "eats" in preparation for Hal, so that she had seemed about as much occupied as in the old days when all six of the children were small enough to be washed and tucked into bed by her own hands. Dan was a freshman this year and had gone back to college with Hal, and Lillian had married Ted Bronson, the flame of her senior year, and had gone with him to far-away Canada. To be sure Dick lived just through the lot, but somehow Molly had never taken very much comfort in Dick's home. Lucy was a splendid woman, but her hobby seemed to be the rearing of her children according to the latest scientific methods? which of course was all right?but Molly always felt that Lucy was constantly in fear that Grandma was going to break in upon the routine of little Mary's or Dickie's schedule. Janet, their eldest daughter lived in Dale, only fifteen miles away, but she had four small children and found little time to visit. George was on a mission in the Orient and would be gone at least three more years. There was no doubt about it, Molly Crossman finally told herself that unbelievable day had come when there was time to do every single thing she had planned to do?and more?. There was time to sit and wonder what she was going to do with the long afternoons and evenings when there were no baskets of undarned stockings nor neglected bureau drawers or pantry shelves to leer at her if she sank into an easy chair and thought to give herself up to the pleasure of an interesting story or volume of poems. Of course, she might join the Bridge Club, or the Social Circle. She had fretted considerably in days gone by because she and Richard had neither time nor money to join what Byfield proudly termed its high society. But somehow, now, after the strenuousness of all their years of saving and planning and caring for the children, all that such society stood for seemed so insignificant and such a waste of time! Richard had been a very successful country lawyer, and they had achieved most of the big things they had set out to do. They had made a good home and had put all the children
MOLLY CROSSMAN BREAKS A TRADITION 469
through high school, and the four younger ones would all have the privilege of a college education. She and Richard were comfortably fixed for the rest of their lives as far as actual needs were concerned?though, of course, there were a lot of things like sets of period furniture and a larger automobile and a trip to historic New England she had always wished they might have. ? Suddenly Molly sat. Up more erectly. Once more she seized the magazine. Up to this point she had merely been trying to interpret her vague unrest in the light of the new thought Miss Gill's Creed had given her. Now she searched out these words: "I believe that every woman should hope to return in the second leisure of middle age, to some of her early skilled labor?" Instantly Molly's mind flashed back to the little millinery shop where she had been working when Richard came to her mother's lodging house that last year at law school. She had loved her work in the gay little shop of Madame Pirrie, but her's and Richard's courtship had progressed so swiftly that just about the time that Madame had begun to beam upon her work and to exclaim, "Tres bien, tres bien!" and to give her now and then a hat to make or remodel for one of the shop's very special customers, which meant that now she was proficient in her work?she found herself wearing Richard's diamond, and life had suddenly become a flutter of excited preparation for the wedding which was to follow immediately after his graduation. The twenty-eight years since then had been so full she had had no time to mourn for the career she left in the little shop back in her native city, though she had experienced some moments of keen satisfaction when the girls, on different occasions, had expressed delighted wonder over her ability to transform their old hats with a few bits of odd lace or ribbon. A new light glowed in Molly's eyes. From the stretch of middle-age leisure, which a half hour before had frightened her, now beckoned happy hours of pleasant work and ill-defined promises of period furniture and visits to alluring historic monuments. A few weeks later a card came informing Molly that ten boxes of insured mail addressed to her were at the Byfield Post Office. Richard brought the card when he came home to lunch. "What in the Dickens does this mean, Mother?" he asked. "Ten boxes of something from Chicago."
470 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Molly's faced flushed. She had used money saved from her personal allowance to pay for the hats; but, of course, she had known all the time there would have to be an explanation to Richard sooner or later. During the previous days while she had been covertly transferring furniture, piece by piece, from the now seldom-used parlor to the attic, and arranging table and improvising shelves, she had been wondering what Richard would say. She had no way of judging what he would think of her plan, because it was so unlike anything she had ever planned before. "It?it can't be that something has?has happened to Lillian?" Richard's mind still retained an image of the heaped-up boxes and trunks as part of the departure of the bridal pair. Molly hastened to allay his fears. "No, Father, nothing is wrong with Lillian. You know we had a letter yesterday. The boxes are some?some? things I sent for." "But ten boxes. Have you sent for some of that period furniture you are always talking about?" Richard laughed. His expression was almost feminine in its curiosity. The pink on Molly's face was becoming more vivid. "It's hats, Richard. You know I used to work in a millinery shop before we were married, and I loved it, and now ?now the children are all grown and I have lots of time I thought I'd?I'd open a little shop here." Molly had spoken rapidly as if in guilt or fear. The look of curiosity on Richard's face changed first to astonishment then to self-accusation, as his logical mind attempted to supply the motive behind this unheard of plan. "Molly!" he fairly gasped, "I haven't?I didn't mean ever to be stingy with you. What is it you want, Mother? Surely I've never made you feel that you had to work for money." His hand had gone into his pocket and came out with a roll of bills. "No, Richard it isn't that I need money. It is just that I want something to do. You see I've been so busy ever since we were married?taking care of the children?and now they are all grown?and gone, and, well?I need something to fill up my leisure." Richard threw back his head and laughed in keen relief. "You women folks beat anything. Always wishing for time to rest and enjoy life. Then when a time comes so you can rest, you hunt work." "Well, I'll just call around at the office and have those boxes shipped back. Goodness knows you've earned your leisure, and now you're going to enjoy it."
MOLLY CROSSMAN BREAKS A TRADITION 471
Molly sprang up in alarm. "No, Richard, I want those hats. You don't understand. I need some really useful work to keep me contented and happy, and Byfield needs a hat shop. Every woman has to go to Dale for her hats. "But what in thunder will people say?you going into business?" That thought had not occurred to Molly. Even now, it didn't seem important to her what people might say. The important thing was to convert Richard to let her keep the hats. She argued for a half hour and finally he grunted something about, "fool notions and women's inconsistencies," as he arose from the table and left for the office. Molly hurried across the street as soon as he was gone and arranged with Georgie Bratton to go to the office at once and bring up the boxes. All afternoon she worked with happy exhilaration even forgetting her husband's disgruntled departure. The softness of the velvets and ribbons, the brightness of the feathers and flowers, brought back the old days in the Madam's shop so vividly that Molly hardly would have been surprised to have heard and approving "Tres bien." She worked behind closed doors and drawn window shades. The old fashioned bay window would make a splendid place for display. When her stock had all been arranged she viewed it with delighted satisfaction, and then slipped into her coat and hat and hurried down to the printing office where she knew the Byfield Semi-weekly Post would soon be going to press. Tom Matthews, the managing editor, looked at her with mingled surprise and sympathy when he read the advertisement?she had asked him to run. "Has?has?anything happened, Mis' Crossman?" he asked solicitously, perhaps feeling that he must have recently missed an important news item about the business failure of Judge Crossman. Molly shook her head smilingly. "No?nothing has happened yet, but I hope a lot of people will happen into my store when they read that ad." Molly was beginning to realize that there was a tradition in Byfield, based on the supposition that married women with husbands were supposed to confine their time and interests within the four walls of home. That this tradition was fixed in the minds of her own sex, as well as in the minds of the real breadwinners, was also evidenced shortly and in a manner that at first riled Molly, then amused her.
472 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Ellen Thompson was the first one of her neighbors to spy the bay window the next morning with its neat placard: "Crossman Hat Shop" She rushed in upon Molly, all excited. "Why, Molly Crossman, what ever's happened?" "You're the first one that's happened," Molly laughed. "Don't they look gorgeous? There's one that will just suit you, Ellen, I thought when I was unpacking it. That looks just like Ellen Thompson. Its rich peacock-blue pan velvet with the cutest little pompom. Do come in and try it on." But amazement on Ellen's face had only deepened. "I?I?can't, just now, Molly. I?I just wondered if? if?something had happened to Richard. I've got to hurry back to the children." She moved from the door with a curious, baffled expression which irritated Molly immensely. She tried to keep surprise out of her tone, as she said: "Well do come over when you have time and see what I have. I thought a millinery shop was one thing Byfield certainly needed. I used to work in one before I was married, you know, and thought I'd enjoy taking up the work again, now the children?now in the?the second leisure of middle age when I haven't much to do." She groped hopefully for Miss Gill's illuminating w

=== GENERAL BOARD ===

the General Board; President Emmaretta G Brown, of the Granite stake; President Electa S. Dixon, of Utah stake; Marie H. Tanner, secretary of Grant stake; Mabel W. James and Bae Williams, of Ensign stake; five members of the staff of the welfare department; and the social worker of Utah stake. Clarissa A. Beesley, of the Y. L. M. I. A., Oscar A. Kirkham of the Y. M. M. I. A. And Clara W. Beebe of the Primary Association attended the conference.
Baby Wear
Vilate Elliot, Brigham Young University
The clothing course in which baby wear is offered at the Brigham Young University is unique for the reason that the students at the beginning of the course never care to make the articles. They are usually induced to do so by the teacher finding customers who are glad to have them made. Sometimes some member of the student's family is anxious to have them made. It is much better for the student to plan and make them for some friend, or a member of her own family, because in nearly every case, after the articles are finished, they become so much a part of herself she wishes to make them for her own hope-chest. The desire to become. A mother someday is awakened, and as the little dainty articles grow under her fingers, she unconsciously weaves the dreams of her own future into the designs of the tiny article. Long before they are finished they become the most intimate bits of creation. By the time the course is over you will hear some such remark as, "I have promised this to my sister, but I have told her, since it is nearly finished, that her baby may wear it, but I want to keep it." This comment is always a delight to hear, because I know that deep down in her own heart that maternal instinct of motherhood is strongly implanted. She has made one wee bit of a dress and possibly a gertrude, now she wants to go on and make the whole layette. In this way one of the aims of the course is attained. She will always be interested in making a layette. She will always want soft, dainty m

=== BACK MATTER (Ads, Trailing Content) ===

Why are family attachments usually essential to normal living?
Mail Orders Filled Same Hour Received
Write Vera Keene The Paris Personal Mail Order Shopper PARCEL POST TO YOU.
The Paris Co. 28-38 E. Bdwy.
This is the Best Flour
There isn't a better judge of flour on earth than my mother. She uses the White Fawn Flour. Merit commands recognition. Consumers of this flour are steadily growing in number. All are pleased and none dissatisfied with the result of its use. Be sure to always ask for White Fawn flour.
Telephone Wasatch 1922
Salt Lake & Jordan Mill & Elevator Co, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
High Educational Standing!
Educate your children in an institution that is recognized the country over for the emphasis it places on serious-minded studentship.
High Scholarship
Only hard working, earnest students are desired. The University of Utah standards for entrance, study and graduation are so high that they are recognized and accepted throughout the educational world.
Freshmen Register September 24 Other students, September 28. Class work starts September 29
For further information write The President University of Utah SALT LAKE CITY
Our Advertisers are our friends. Remember them when Shopping.
AMY BROWN LYMAN, Asst. Mgr. Relief Society Magazine
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Three Great News Services Serve The Deseret News
In addition we have many features such as:
Aunt Het And several other good comics.
Kathleen Kay And the Hearttotium department.
Dorothy Dix The world's most widely read newspaper writer.
Glazier & Taylor Hosiery Co. 2nd Anniversary Sale
Children's Fine Ribbed Hose, Sizes 5 to 9?. Reg. 40c value 4 pr. 85c. Colors: Black, Cordovan, Grey, Deer, Camel, Tan, Elkskin
Children's English Rib, Fine Mercerized. Reg. 50c value 3 pr. $1.00. Colors as above.
Misses Fibre Silk. Reg. 75c value 49c.
Must buy quantity as given but colors and sizes may be assorted.
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
MRS CARRIE GOASLINIE 463 5TH AVE CITY
BLUE PINE EXTRACTS are guaranteed pure, full strength and wonderfully rich in flavor. Your cakes and pastry will be improved by using Blue Pine Vanilla and Lemon Extracts.
"SAY BLUE PINE TO YOUR GROCER"
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE