ISABELLA.

Oh, Woman! Genius, power, kingdoms,
Thrones, with all their charms and prestige—
Sceptres, subjects, ministering spirits—round,
Hover round thy footsteps, to watch thine eye,
To catch thy lightest word and that obey;
To stand in highest altitude, erect and firm,
And ne'er turn dizzy with the regal hight—
Who still is WOMAN, still her nature holds,
Pure, unsullied, as a queen should be,
Who has an ear for Truth, for Genius,
In whatever form it comes, though stript
Of worldly grandeur—all the world calls great;
And Standing like the far-famed obelisks
Of far-famed Egypt, alone, unread,
With naught to herald it but that intense,
That persevering Genius God bestows
On those He singles out to do His work;
His work on earth where man his agent is,
And woman too, his partner and co-mate
In all the grand, essential moves upon
The mighty chess-board of the game of life
Such was Isabella, Sovereign of Castile
And Queen of Ferdinand and Spain.
To Ferdinand—himself a king—she brought
Her throne, her kingdom, subjects, and herself,
And laid them at the feet of him to whom
More, more than all, she gave her loving heart—
A gem of which a monarch might yet be proud;
And he—most rarely found—proved worthy
of all the wealth she showered on his head.
They lived, and loved, and reigned conjointly;
Hand and heart united in their regal work,
When lo! a man in humble guise presents
Himself, and with them craves an audience.
He is admitted. In person, regal
As the pair to whom he is presented;
She has an eye at once to read the man;
A heart to feel he bears upon his form
The duplicate of HIM who gave the mission,
And sustained throughout, in ev'ry need the man
Ferdinand gives attention—Isabella
Enthusiasm. She felt the man of God
A messenger direct, and hence prepared
To learn his mission and obey his voice.
Columbus spoke! and then at once a queen
Stood forth as tho apostle of his cause;
A queen, a woman, a proselyte of truth,
A truth that did enrich his day and age,
Was first received by woman's gentle heart;
Isabella was that woman; and she
Never waver'd, but until death was true.
Before her court's indifference, before
His enemies, or his reverses, she
Believed him true, and was upon the throne
His proselyte, and to the grave his friend.

Ferdinand, in this, was worldly-minded;
Isabella saw, with spirit eyes, he
Was a man of destiny! a man of God!
And told the man appointed to investigate
The claims Columbus advocated,
That they were haggling with God the price of
Empire, and of souls, whom to idolatry
Their infidelity would leave. The king
Had not the faith that he could meet expense
So mighty as a naval outfit for
The man, who, in returning, promised
An Empire that should astound the world
And ages yet unborn.

Isabella listened to the colloquy, then with a
Burst of heavenly enthusiasm cried,
"I will undertake the enterprise alone
For my crown of Castile; I will pawn
My diamonds and my jewels, in MY eyes
Most worthless, compared with what is offered
By this great, good man, whom God has sent to us."
This noble burst of woman's feeling triumphed
The king, chagrined, consented to inspect
His treasury and see what could be done!
"Disinterestedness is the true wisdom
Of great politicians!" Columbus
Was re-called. He bow'd at the feet of her
Who'd nobly won for him the victory;
His soul was full of sweet emotions,
And she wept tears upon his noble head;
Ferdinand was moved and ratified the deed,
And into unknown seas the explorer passed.
