FLORAL HINTS.

	FOR RAISING FERNS:—Make a bed of
deep rich soil from the woods; in this bed
plant the native ferns; they will bear
transplanting at any time. This bed for
ferns should be on the north side of the
house or fence.
	THE rose requires high culture, and
should be planted in good, well-drained
soil, it can scarcely be too rich. The in-
sects which are most injurious to the rose
may be easily destroyed by syringing the
plants in tobacco water. Care should be ta-
ken in winter to protect them from severe
cold and frosts; cover them with leaves or
straw, or remove them to a cool cellar. A
nice way to plant rose-bushes is in a circle,
with some tall growing shrub in the cen-
tre; in this way they can better be pro-
tected in winter by throwing some straw or
light brush over them.
	CARE OF PLANTS:—Almost all house
plants require constant care and attention,
plenty of sunshine and fresh air, they will
not thrive without it. Windows which face
the south are the best for most plants; am-
monia water is one of the best fertilizers,
making the leaves fresh and green, also
liquid manure, but very weak. For some
delicate plants the Floral Cabinet recom-
mends glue-water; get the most common
dark glue, put it in a pitcher or jar, pour
boiling water over it, then when it is cold
dilute it and water the plants with it about
once a week; glue being made of bones and
refuse of various kinds is a very good stim-
ulant and makes the plants look healthy and
fresh. Sprinkle and wash plants frequent-
ly, and as much as possible keep them free
from dust.


CHINESE GARDEN:—The largest garden
in the world is in China; it covers an area
of fifty thousand square miles, round
Shanghai; it has been in a high state of cul-
tivation for hundreds of years. Three crops
a year are harvested from it; it is all mea-
dow land, raised a few feet above the wa-
ter, and with a complete net work of water
communication.


THE term "conservative," so says an
English writer of note, was first used in
the "Quarterly Review," for January, 1830,
by John Wilson Croker thus. "We despise
and abominate the details of partizan war-
fare, but we are now, as we always have
been, decidedly and conscientiously attached
to what is called the Tory, and which might
with more propriety be called the Conserva-
tive party."


