HOME AFFAIRS.

	MESSRS. G. M. Ottinger and C. R. Savage
have started for Philadelphia where they pur-
pose remaining a few days as visitors to the
great Centennial Exposition.
	THANKS FOR the "Utah Musical Times,"
number six of the publication: it is the first
we have had the pleasure of perusing. A jour-
nal devoted to music, art and literature ought
certainly to be of great advantage in a com-
munity to encourage refining and elevating
influences. We are pleased with its contents
and wish it success.
	MRS. DR. Ellen Fergurson who is at present
residing in St. George, recently gave a lecture
in that city. Her subject was Rome. We had
the pleasure of seeing Mrs. Ferguson and her
husband when they were in Salt Lake on
their way to St. George. Mrs. Ferguson is a
woman of very pleasing manners and appear-
ance, has traveled extensively, and has had a
superior classic and a thorough medical educa-
tion, with considerable practice.
	HON. GEORGE Q. Cannon delegate to Con-
gress from Utah, with his wife and daughter,
has returned home, arriving Monday evening
Aug. 21st. He has given most complete satisfac-
tion by his labors the past years, to those most
interested in the future welfare of Utah, and
truly merited the good feelings of the people he
has served. We greet him welcome to Utah
and his mountain home.
	THE DESERET University opened as usual at
the University Buildings, Mo[-]day Morning,
Aug. 21st, Dr. J. R. Park, Pri[--]cipal. The
rules and regulations and the system of in-
struction are similar to that of pre[-]ious years.
The teachers substantially the same; the at-
tendance is as large as could be expected so
early in the season. Dr. Park and those en-
gaged with him spare no pains to make the
school in every respect equal to similar insti-
tutions in the East. Dr. Park himself is a
teacher of vast experience, and one who mani-
fests the truest interest in the development
and education of the young.


[Column 1]
	MISS M. E. Cook will open her Graded
School in the Social Hall on the first Monday
in this month, September 4th, assisted by her
former teachers. Miss Cook has taken great
pains and been untiring in her efforts to es-
tablish this system of school here; she has so
far succeeded as to draw forth encomiums of
praise and commendation from persons inter-
ested in the subject of schools and education in
Utah, and from strangers who have visited her
school and taken pains to go through her rooms
and hear recitations. Miss Cook has taught for
many years and is a thorough and energetic
worker in the cause of education in the school
room and elsewhere. Her terms for tuition
will be the same as usual.
	MRS. WELLS: Yesterday I had the pleasure
of an interview with Mrs. Porter; a Silk Rib-
bon weaver.
	Mrs. Porter has just arrived from England
and has brought harness, reeds, shuttles &c.
&c., with a model of her loom. This morning
she goes to Bountiful, Davis Co., where she
expects to locate, and, as early as practicable,
resume her accustomed occupation.
	It is to be hoped that through the assistance
of our energetic sisters in Bountiful and else-
where, we can trim our hats with Ribbons of
Home Manufacture.				E. R. S.
	S. L. City, Aug. 19.
	THE NORMAL Institute closed its regular
session Thursday, Aug. 17th. There has been
a great deal of instruction given during this
term which cannot fail to be an advantage to
those engaged in teaching, and indeed to all.
There was a report from the committee on res-
olutions tendering thanks to Prof. J. R. Park
and others who had assisted him, the rail-
road companies, and all who had favored the
Institute in any way. Prof. Park returned
his thanks and also in behalf of all interested,
and made some most excellent closing remarks
which it would be well for every person to re-
member and profit by. He exhorted the teach-
ers to remember always at all times and in all
places, in the schoolroom and out of the school
that their conduct should be most exemplary.
He told them how closely children watched
the conduct of teachers and those who were
placed over them; consequently how much
evil a bad example might work upon the
minds of those who were too young to discrim-
inate for themselves. He said the future hap-
piness and prosperity of a nation depended up-
on the training and education of the young;
and that teachers could not be too careful and
judicious in the course they pursued, them-
selves; and by example as well as precept in-
stil into the minds of pupils true principles.
	The Institute in its session this year number-
ed 158 members, including some from almost
every county in Utah. These reunions will
serve to give tone and elevation to the system
of education and by bringing together the best
talent of the country promote the advance-
ment of literature and science.
	HON. JOHN Taylor and Hon. J. F. Smith,
with the teachers of the territory, met in the
University Building Sat. Aug. 12th, and
Monday Aug. 14th, to discuss the question of
suitable school books for the territory. It is
well known that some of the superintendents
and teachers of schools have declined accept-
ing some of the schools books adopted by the
convention. The result of the present conven-
tion was the adoption of certain specified reso-
lutions which we give in full below.
	Resolved, That the following resolutions be
submitted by the secretary of this convention
to the honorable superintendent, O. H. Riggs,
of Utah, as the sentiments of the teachers of

[Column 2]
this territory, and that the same should be
published in the leading newspapers of said
territory.
	Whereas, The acts of the late convention
held by the superintendents of schools of the
territory April 6th, 7th and 8th, 1876, for the
purpose of adopting text books in accordance
with section 16 of the school law of Utah, fail-
ed to meet the approval of many of the citi-
zens of said territory, in consequence of which
said act failed from being carried into execu-
tion; and
	Whereas, Said failure has been attended
with much inconvenience to our schools, in
some instances even breaking up classes, thus
placing our teachers in a very embarrassing
position.
	Therefore, it is the voice of this convention
that the Hon. O. H. Riggs call a convention
for the purpose of unravelling the present
difficulty, and if possible bring about a change
before opening our winter schools.
	In offering this resolution this assembly does
not presume to criticize the acts of said con-
vention, but simply from necessity calls for re-
lief, and appeals to those whose right it is to
say what text books we shall have.
			CHARLES WRIGHT, Chairman.
	ARTHUR PARSONS, Sec:
	WE HAVE had the pleasure of a call from
Elders' M. B. Young and M. H. Hardy who
have been traveling for some months past,
most of the time through the settlements in
the interest of the Young Men's Mutual Im-
provement Associations. They visited most of
the settlements South as far as St. George, and
organized in all the towns where it was deem-
ed practicable; they express themselves as
having been treated with the utmost kind-
ness and hospitality by bishops and people,
and everything done as far as possible to ad-
vance the special mission in which they were
engaged. Br. Young while South made quite
a collection of minerals and curiosities to add
to his cabinet; among them were specimens of
petrified corn which must have lain at least a
hundred years, but were perfect in outline.
Upon the top of a very high mountain he
found a great number of petrified oyster shells,
perfect, and some of them closed together, nev-
er having been opened, proving beyond contra-
diction that the sea had once covered that por-
tion of the country.
	Bro. Hardy informed us they had, while
traveling, visited the day and Sunday Schools
and spoken to them whenever they could. At
Monroe they had been very much gratified
with the manner in which the school was con-
ducted by Mrs. Bean, a lady who seemed to
have a thorough understanding of her work.
She had a class in the Book of Mormon which
was very interesting; this Book as a history of
this country and its former inhabitants and
government, ought to be well understood by
the rising generation, and especially by the
children of the Latter-day Saints.
	On the 10th of July Elders' Young and
Hardy started North to visit that part of the
country on the same mission; they held their
first meeting at Brigham City, with the young
people there in a general assembly and had an
interesting time. They then proceeded through
Cache Valley visiting almost every town,
organizing associations at Hyrum, Smithfield,
and Wellsville; thence to Soda Springs and on 
through Bear Lake Valley holding meetings
and organizing Associat[-] societies in nearly all
of the towns and settlements. Br. Hardy in-
formed us that he had been distributing tracts
and pamphlets containing the first principles
of the Gospel, through the Sunday Schools and
associations in the settlements; it will no doubt

[Column 3]
have a tendency to facilitate the work of the
Sunday School—teachers very—considerably.
There are many of the children who are not
sufficiently informed of the fundamental prin-
ciples of the Gospel. Elder Hardy has been
for some years assistant to Dr. J. R. Park in
the Deseret University in Salt Lake City, he
has now gone to assist Br. Carl G. Maeser in
the Academy at Provo. We wish them the
success and patronage we are sure they emi-
nently deserve.


