		A GLANCE AT THE FUTURE.

	There is in the nature of all intelligent per-
sons a definite or undefined longing to look for-
ward into the future and to discern by the pres-
ent transpiring events, or judge from the past,
what the indications are of coming prosperity or
evil. When any great change is on the tapis
this is more especially the case; people cannot
but question and wonder, what the great move
will bring about, and whether it will promote
and foster an influence for good or ill.
	In America perhaps more than in any other
country in the world, the majority of the peo-
ple interest themselves understandingly in the
subjects of rulers and governments; because
each person considers himself a citizen of free
and independent principles, and a part of
the great body politic.
	Then the educational system of this grand
country has been established upon such a
broad scale as to reach all classes and therefore
they are taken as a whole, better enlightened
on all practical subjects and interests. It
would seem to one not knowing anything of
the real wickedness and corruption that exists
in the United States, and possessing a knowl-
edge of the laws and constitution, and being
familiar with the geography of the country,
its great internal resources, and the enlighten-
ed condition of its inhabitants, that of all peo-
ple in the world the people of America should
be the most prosperous; but how far from this
is this their present condition? Underlying
the surface which is not in itself altogether
free from turmoil and ripples, is an element of
contention seething and boiling and foaming,
ready to burst its bounds at any moment if not
quelled and kept in subjection to the powers
that be.
	The people at the present time seem to
think, that whatever change occurs, matters
really cannot be made worse, and naturally
hopeful, expect that the next presidential era
will assuredly settle some of the many diffi-
culties now pending. The corruption of men
in power has become the theme of common
conversation, and there is scarcely a child old
enough to read that does not seem somewhat
informed in regard to crime in high places;
with such men at the helm, what can be ex-
pected of the state of public society?
	It is said and justly too, that happy homes
and well-disciplined families are the true ele-
ments of great institutions, and social and
and general government; but there can
scarcely be any permanent, thorough home-

[Column 2]
happiness when the sovereign power of the
nation is vested in men who have no genu-
ine interest in the homes of the people.
	Of course it is humiliating for a nation who
have boasted so much of freedom and liberty
to acknowledge that they are wrong, that they
have allowed unrestrained license to those in
power, instead of the liberty of action, which
the rights of the CONSTITUTION guarantee; but
the wrong has become so undeniable [-]o out-
rageously self-evident that every intelligent
person must perforce perceive that some posi-
tive change is necessary.
	Liberty implies responsibility, and that is
not liberty which resolves itself into selfish-
ness and indifference to another's rights; this
odious attitude of public matters totally and
hopelessly demolishes all real society all true
general government. If there are any persons
so blind to the present state of national affairs
as not to be able to see the elements of total
wreck and dissolution, they have only to open
their eyes and ears to attain completely this
uncomfortable conviction. The great difficulty
in the matter is, how wisely and prudently,
to select and then apply a sale and speedy
remedy; and for such an issue at the present
crisis, with all the differences of opinion which
exist, is there any sure foundation or funda-
mental basis for believing such a change will
be effected?


