RUNNING IN DEBT.

	I dwell on this point, for I would deter
others from entering that place of torment.
Half the young men in this country, with
many old enough to know better, would go
into business—that is, into debt—to-mor-
row, if they could. Most poor men are so
ignorant as to envy the merchant or manu-
facturer, whose life is one incessant struggle
with pecuniary difficulties, who is driven
to constant "sinkning," and who, from
month to month, barely evades the insolv-
ency which sooner or later overtakes most
men in business; so that it has been compu-
ted that but one man in twenty of them
achieve a pecuniary success. For my own
part I would rather be a convict in the
State prison, a slave in a rice-swamp, than
to pass through life under the harrow of
debt. Let no young man misjudge him-
self unfortunate, or truly poor, so long as
he has the full use of his limbs and facul-
ties, and is substantially free from debt.
Hunger, cold, rags, hard work, contempt,
suspicion and unjust reproach are disagree-
able, but debt is infinitely worse than them
all. And if it had pleased God to spare
either or all my sons to be the support of
my declining years, the lesson which I
should most earnestly seek to impress up-
on them is, "never run in debt." Avoid
pecuniary obligations as you would pesti-
lence and famine. If you have but fifty
cents and can get no more for a week, buy
a peck of corn, parch it and live on it, ra-
ther than owe a dollar! Of course I know
that some men must do business that in-
volves a risk, and must give notes or other
obligations, and I do not consider him in
debt who can lay his hands directly on the
means of paying, at some little sacrifice all
he owes; I speak of real debt—that which
involves risk and sacrifice on one side, ob-
ligation and dependence on the other—and
I say from all such, let every youth humbly
pray God to preserve him evermore.—
Horace Greely.


WEIGHT OF LIGHT: Scientists have
now proved that light has weight, it seems
impossible to associate light with weight
so long have we looked at it in another sense,
that it seems incredible to associate the two
together, but from the fact that light exert-
ed a certain repellant force upon whatever
it fell, Mr. Crook, at the Royal Institution
in London, has lately demonstrated not
only this truth, but that this force or weight
could be measured. Of course this has all
been done on a very minute scale and with
a very finely constructed apparatus; yet it
suffices to give a standard, and from this
the calculation is that sunlight falls with a
weight of thirty-two grains to every square
foot, fifty-seven tons to the square mile, or,
3,000,000,000 tons on the whole earth, a
force that would be sufficient to drive our
globe from its orbit, and send it flying off
into space, but for the still more gigantic
influence of gravity."


