AN INCOMPLETE CENTENNIAL.

	But the ceremonies were incomplete.
Some Frenchman,—if possible, a soldier of
the Republic, should have stood shoulder to
shoulder with orator and poet, bearing his
witness that the old charter is a living let-
ter at the century's close.
	And again, there was incompleteness, but
there was fitness, perhaps, in the omission.
The magnificent chorus that alone gave ex-
pression to the opening day, the chorus
which owes its existence to Philadelphia
women, was absent from the ceremonial of
the Fourth. Created by the energy and
musical taste of the Women's Committees,
there was something typical in the fact of
its absence. A hundred years ago, Abi-
gail Adams, the wife of one President and
mother of another, was writing to her hus-
band. "I long to hear that you have de-
clared an independency. And, by the way,
in the new code of laws which I suppose it
will be necessary for you to make, I desire
you would remember the ladies, and be more
generous and favorable to them than their
ancestors were. Do not put such unlimited
power into the hands of the husbands." And
again in another letter,—"I cannot say I
think you are very generous, for while you
are proclaiming peace and good-will to men,
emancipating all nations, you insist upon
retaining absolute power over wives."
	The women of the Centennial Commit-
tees have had three years of education.
Their services have been sought, their as-
sistance invited, the profits of their hard
work have been given to build up the en-
terprise, yet not unfrequently has the snub
been administered, reminding them that
the old century men, still claim "absolute
power" over them and their belongings.
They may have had feeble powers of reas-
oning, it is true, when they began to work,
but in the severe school of adverse decis-
ions and continual subordination, their per-
ceptive faculties have grown and widened.
They refuse any longer to accept palaver in
the place of justice. Resolutions of thanks
is one thing, recognition is another.
	If they apply the experience gained in
judging of some other matters, the school
of their training must shoulder the respon-
sibility. They fail to perceive why the
Michigan woman, who settles upon govern-
ment acres, preempts her little farm by cul-
tivating it, making a home for her child-
ren and her drunken husband, is denied
the privilege of ownership, which that hus-
band could have obtained at the govern-
ment's hands any day he was sober enough
to claim it. To make out her title to these
acres her own hand had planted and sown,
it was necessary for the United States Sen-
ator to tell her whole sad story to his fel-
lows, and by a special act of Congress ena-
ble her to own what she had paid for to the
United States. The beautiful discrimina-
tions of the law, which forces the hard-
working wife to wait for special legislation,
dragging the sad circumstances of her life
into public discussion, must be encouraging
to other married women, driven by hard
necessity to make homes for themselves
and children.
	Again, we fail to understand also, if it
was highest virtue, in Boston men, a cen-
tury ago, to throw into the harbor tea that
did not belong to them, because they would
pay no taxes without their own consent,
why should it be the best kind of a joke
when two ladies of Connecticut, who own
more property in their township than ten of
their neighbors, shall refuse any longer to
pay taxes, thereupon, unless granted some

