NOTES AND NEWS.

	THERE WILL be a Republican Convention
held at Worcester, Mass., Tues., Sep. 5th.
	A FREE HOSPITAL is about to be erecte
at the Begum of Bhopal, as a memorial of
the visit of the Prince of Wales to India.
The cost will probably be 80,000 rupees.
	MAURICE SAND, son of the French au-
thoress, warns all persons possessed of
manuscript copies of letters from his moth-
er, not to make them public without special
authorization from him.
	A STATE Convention is to be held in Bos-
ton on Tuesday, Sept. 12, 1876, at 11 o'clock
a. m., to consider their political duties in
regard to the fall elections; also to make
nominations for state officers if it is con-
sidered advisable. Men and women are in-
vited who are interested in Woman suf-
frage.
	A SCHOOL is to be founded to the mem-
ory of Lady Augusta Stanly, in the neigh-
borhood of Westminister Abbey. The
school is to be a Home and Training School
of Nurses. To the poor this lady was a con-
stant and tender friend, and always carried
with her the warmth and energy of true
sympathy in the hour of adversity or sick-
ness.
	HARPER'S WEEKLY says the truly inde-


pendent voters support Hayes, not because
they do not severely condemn much for
which the Republican party in any intelli-
gible system of party government must be
held responsible, but because, upon a sensi-
ble and practical survey of the situation
and the parties, they have decided that the
better element of the Republican party is
more likely to prevail for good results than
that of the Democratic.
	AT THE Exposition, near to Machinery
Hall, is situated the Turkish Cafe, a pretty
cheerful resort. A Turkish gentleman
from Constantinople presides over it, and
the attendants are in the picturesque cos-
tume of that locality. If you wish coffee,
it is made at once in little brass coffee pots,
each holding a cup, over a little charcoal
fire in a small furnace in one corner of the
room. The berry is ground as fine as meal,
and the coffee is poured into a tiny cup
which rests on a stand of silver filigree, the
liquor is as thick as cream; it soon settles,
and the beverage sweetened with rock
candy and served without milk is sure to
be delicious to lovers of good coffee. To
strangers this glimpse of Oriental life, its
people and customs is peculiarly interest-
ing. They will also serve you with Turk-
ish pipes and tobacco in their own peculiar
style.


