HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Glue.—A teaspoonful of saltpetre added to a
large potful of glue will effectually prevent it from
smelling; besides, it causes it to dry faster and
harder than it would without it.
	A New Mucilage.—The Journal de Pharmacie
states that if, to a strong solution of gum arabic,
measuring eight and a half fluid ozs., a solution of
thirty grains sulphate of aluminum dissolved in
two thirds of an ounce of water should be added,
this makes a very strong mucilage, capable of fas-
tening wood together, or of mending porcelain or
glass.
	Apples Pickles:—Quarter and core the apples,
then steam them until a fork will go through
them readily. Make a syrup of sugar and vine-
gar and pour over them while it is hot. Stick a
clove or two into each quarter. Seven lbs. of ap-
ples prepared to three lbs. of sugar and one pint
of vinegar are good proportions.
	Drop Cakes:—One teacupful of cream; one of
sour milk, one teaspoonful soda, a pinch of salt,
two teacupsful of flour, two tablespoonsful of su-
gar with one egg stirred well together, and drop-
ped from the spoon into a dripper well buttered.


LATE MARRIAGES:—It is greatly to be
regretted that young people are reluctant
to marry because they cannot at once set
up house-keeping in an expensive or stylish
manner. Society as a whole is seriously
endangered by these absurd and false ideas
of social economy, and late marriages have
become largely characteristic of modern so-
cial life. Young love if true and godly
will make early struggles wholesome and
joyous, and let not the prudence of such a
question be pressed too hard; if a young
man has a position that will enable him to
marry with ordinary carefulness, and if he
has found a woman, who he believes will
make his home happy, and be a true com-
panion, let him marry and take her to a
humble home, let them practise such econ-
omy as is consistent with their circumstan-
ces. It will discipline them in the right
path and give them an experience they
could never have gained in affluence. Life
will be the better for it and fortune more
acceptable and more wisely disposed should
prosperity beam upon them and success at-
tend their efforts.


