DEATH IN THE NURSING BOTTLES.

	The following we clip, by request, from an old
number of the Scientific American. The subject
thereof is of such vital interest to all mothers; that
we would advise them to read carefully and profit
by the same.
	"But there is a prolific source of infant
mortality, to which we wish now to direct
special attention, namely the patent nursing bot-
tle. It consists of a rubber tube, one end of
which is held in the child's mouth; the other end,
passing through a cork, is attached to a glass rod
which descends to the bottom of a bottle of so-
called milk. We might write a page on the dan-
gers that reside in the milk, unless special care has
been taken to obtain fresh, or by suitably diluting
pure condensed milk. But this danger is well
known, and our business at present is with the
bottle, or rather its dirty tube, which should nev-
er be used more than once, then thrown away and
a new one bought.
	Even when new, these white tubes, impregna-
ted as they are with oxide of zinc, are not unobject-
ionable: far worse are they when saturated with
sour milk, germs of putrefaction, decay and dis-
ease. Some of these child-murdering, Yankee
inventions have reached Berlin, and have called
forth the following from a practising physician of
that city:
	"The supposed advantage of these bottles con-
sists in this, that they can be placed beside the in-
fant in bed, while other bottles must be held in
the hand all the time. What sensible mother or
nurse would leave a child with a bottle without
watching it? The danger of the bottle consists
in this, that it is absolutely impossible to cleanse
it. When sucked on, little particles of milk be-
come attached to the tube and cork; these curdle
and soon turn sour. If some of this deposit be
placed under a microscope, we see innumerable
bacteria, organic beings which indicate decomposi-
tion and decay. At every meal the child draws
in thousands of these germs. The decomposing
process acts upon what it finds in the mouth,
æsophagus, and stomach, and the result is diar-
rhea, cholera infantum, etc. I will here express-


ly remark that the usual method of placing the
apparatus in water, or merely rinsing it out with a
stream of water, is in no way sufficient. Some
dealers sell a suitable little wire brush with the
bottle, but even this does not answer the purpose,
for the apparatus is not clean by a long way after
drawing the brush through it several times; and
who will take the trouble to clean it so thoroughly
eight or ten times a day? How much time it
would require! Another disadvantage is that the
bottle is air tight, and a partial vacuum is formed,
which renders sucking so difficult as to exhaust
the child, and it stops before its hunger is satis-
fied. Hence, parents, ye who are compelled to
feed your children with a bottle, throw away this
apparatus, which can only bring destruction upon
your children, and either select a bottle with glass
mouthpiece, which is filled from below, or take a
large rubber mouthpiece, which is perforated by
a small hole and can be drawn directly over the
neck of the glass bottle. This large mouthpiece or
nipple can readily be turned inside out and thor-
oughly cleaned and rubbed with dry salt."
	After reading the above, we sorrowfully ac-
knowledge that our own experience warrants us in
saying, that many infants, children of parents re-
siding in Salt Lake City, and Utah Territory,
have succumbed to cholera infantum, as a result of
using the Patent Nursing Bottles above referred
to, and the heading thereof is true that there is
"Death in the nursing bottle."			C. S.


