TEMPLE FUNDS.

	The Countess of Huntington, who lived
about one hundred years ago, was a religious
reformer. We think she was one of the
noblest women of whom we ever read.
She gave her time and talents, her exten-


sive influence and her entire fortune to the
service of the Lord. So great was her de-
sire to advance the good work which she
had espoused that she allowed herself only
one new dress a year. Her means were
employed in building and supporting chap-
els in which converted souls might wor-
ship undisturbed by the show of pride and
vanity which characterizes common church-
goers.
	In contemplating the earnest zeal with
which that excellent lady worked for the
benefit and salvation of mankind, as far as
she understood, the thought arises, what
a vast amount of good might be done by
our sisters, if they were really as earnest
and as zealous in the cause of truth and
righteousness as she was. True she was
a lady of wealth and influence. She sold
her jewelry and used the means thus pro-
cured in the erection of a college for the
benefit of young ministers. No one of us
could do anything like that. But suppose
that several hundred or a few thousand of
us should put together all our best jewelry
—reserving, perhaps, some sacred tokens,
such as "the ring MY MOTHER wore," or a
wedding ring—would not the money thus
obtained do something towards building a
temple to our God?
	We have been informed that in some of
the Retrenchment Associations in this city,
five cent Temple Funds have been estab-
lished. In these funds, each young lady or
little girl may deposit a nickle once a week,
or as often as she can get one, instead of
spending it for a piece of ribbon or lace or
a bit of candy; an excellent plan, we think.
And not only should the officers of these
associations encourage the younger mem-
bers, more by example than precept, to
sustain and enlarge funds of this kind, but
mothers should find great satisfaction in as-
sisting to make such things items of spec-
ial interest.
