			BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

					[handwritten] E. B. Wells

		"Act! for in action are wisdom and glory;
		Fame, immortality—these are its crown;"

	Does not the very indication of the times
demand sober, earnest thought and prompt
and decisive action? And are not the ques-
tions now before the public, such as call for
the united influence of men and women?
What shall be said then in this day of
great social questions when modern society
seems to have arrived at a culminating
point which requires some immediate at-
tention, when crime has so steadily and
surely worked its way into popular and
prominent places and positions, that it is
almost countenanced if not actually sanc-
tioned; what shall be said I repeat, of those
possessing ability and influence who sit in
listlesness and indifference and do not lift
their vioce, or in anywise deprecate this
state of things, seemingly apathetic on the
score that it has nothing whatever to do
with them?
	Let the favored ones, the fair daughters
of the nation who look with such apathy
upon all the abstruse questions of public
and general interest, pause and consider;
they fare sumptuously, their lives are pleas-
ant ones, their homes are elegant, their ta-
bles luxuriously supplied, their husbands or
fathers are perhaps attentive to their every
wish, the world pays them homage, it mat-
ters not to them who wields the power of
state, who sits at the helm; they think not
of the many who must toil or starve, wives,
widows, mothers or sisters, who sue in vain
for some recognition of their equality with
their brother MAN; widows and orphans un-
justly deprived of their honest dues, whose
entreaties and intercessions pass unheeded;
are they not a part of the same great fam-
ily, one universal brotherhood; and if in-
justice is dealt out to some, should not all
feel interested? Think of this you who sit
carelessly with folded arms, while the daugh-
ters of the nation by hundreds and thou-
sands go down into the great whirlpool of
sin and wickedness, their names dishonor-
ed and their eternal future blighted, their
hopes of happiness forever wrested from
them; will you not even ask the cause?
Are you so unconcerned as to allow such
tragedies to be enacted under your eyes and
not even question the justice of such ine-
quality as visits shame and dishonor upon
the head of woman while man the offender
goes scatheless?
	Women, you who are surrounded with
peace and plenty, or competence, with lov-
ing hearts to cherish you and strong hands
to bear you up, think you, that you will be
held guiltless because it is not your daugh-
ter, sister or mother that is wronged?
Should you allow the cares or pleasures of
this world to so absorb your attention that
you cannot take any interest in those im-
portant questions which involve the gener-
al happiness or misery of the nation? Are
you quite sure, you who do not wish to get
mixed up in vexed questions, that you will
be free from blame? Who has absolved
you from duty to your fellows? Is it be-
cause you are so ignorant of the terrible
consequences that are involved by even one
person leading a life of sin? If so, where
is your excuse? Everywhere around you
are the means of enlightenment on these
points; and lectures, public meetings and
conventions where you can learn of these
things if they do not come under your im-
mediate observation; is not this very plea
of ignorance a sin in itself? Are you not

[Column 2]
interested in the welfare temporal and spir-
itual of all the great world of mankind?
Have you not then a desire to know by
what laws countries are governed, and
whether all women YOUR SISTERS, are free
to live their own lives, to follow out their
own convictions of right and wrong, and to
worship God according to the dictates of
their own consciences?
	"I leave all these subjects of discussion to
my husband," says one lady, "he attends to
all these things, it is out of a woman's
sphere, I detest women who mix up with
political affairs and talk like men, I would
not vote if I had ever so much freedom."
These are the sentiments of a large class,
usually happy wives, content to live only
in their husbands affections; as yet, their
homes have never been invaded by any
wolf in sheep's clothing; but the majority
of women have not such homes, are not so
happily situated. And death often takes
away the husband or father, the supporter
and defender, and those so carefully nurtur-
ed by tenderest care, have to struggle with
the world, face to face in the conflict, with
no strong arm for a shield and support, and
should injustice be meted out to them, they
may reflect they could better have informed
themselves in the days of prosperity before
the evil days came. Women shrink away
abashed at the sight of one of their own
sex who they know is openly living a de-
graded life, that of an outcast, and think
themselves modest, and that the presence
of such abandoned ones would pollute them;
they do not want to breathe the same at-
mosphere. Meantime let me ask where
are the men who have caused the downfall,
the ruin, the utter recklessness of these
poor creatures, whose garments must not
touch yours? The world does not frown
upon them, society receives them with open
arms, they are FAST, A LITTLE FAST, by and
by they will settle down into respectable
fathers of families. Yes, and what will
they expect their wives to be— women of
spotless purity. Will they not be unequal-
ly yoked? Why should not woman de-
mand the husband to bring a spotless repu-
tation to the marriage altar?

						"But not alone
	The girl is pure: the boy with beardless lip
	Will blush as fair as any girl, and shrink
	From all unchaste, or evil word or deed
	As virginal as she; and God designed
	No more that woman should be pure than man.
	Your bodies are the temple; know ye not,
	In which the Holy Ghost was made to dwell!"

	Boys should be held morally responsible
as well as girls, and little misdemeanors and
digressions from rectitude should not be
over-looked in them and license allowed
them in the matter of self-restraint, on the
plea that "boys will be boys." There is an
underlying cause and it is useless to at-
tempt the cure of an evil unless the cause
is ascertained; society tolerates certain
wrongs in men simply from long-continued
custom, while it visits with scathing ven-
geance an irreperable blight and disgrace
upon women for the same offences. Should
not those mutually guilty receive the same
censure, or punishment irrespective of sex?
	Men have the reins of power, they "hold
the fort," but in this age of progress, if wo-
men are awake to the great events which
must transpire while these grand evolutions
are going forward, and are found ready to
lend a helping hand in each great move up-
on the "chessboard of life," or within the
arena of action, if they stand firmly side
by side with man in any great social, polit-
ical or national quostion, then may they
work for the advancement and enfranchise-
ment of their sex, be it ever so quietly or

[Column 3]
unobtrusively. In the meantime be thank-
ful for small favors, although they may be
viewed as something doled out more as a
peace offering, than an inherent privilege
by right, yet accept such gladly as a prelim-
inary step, a firm footing gained in the lad-
der of advancement; make use of the rights
allowed, act as far as possible in unison with
each other, and never let one point gained
be so lightly h[-]ld that it will slip from you.
	No intelligent woman should consent to a
grievous wrong or injustice even by her si-
lence; but by all the eloquence and influ-
ence she can bring to bear, seek to instil in-
to the minds of all who come within her
sphere, such principles of honor, justice and
equity as cannot fail to make an impression
upon the side of right.
	Women who are happy wives, who are
surrounded with all that adds beauty and
attraction to life, who have personal and so-
cial influence with MAN, the ruling power,
could, were they fairly aroused, do most in
the cause of enfranchisement which would
materially benefit the condition of all, be-
cause their very position will command fa-
vor and power, and they would not be held
up to ridicule as seeking for notoriety, or
acting from a spirit of revenge; they would
not be caricatured as "hybrids." If such
women could be made to realize the terri-
ble condition of the working-girls whose
wages are not a compensation for labor, but
a mere pittance which will hardly suffice
to keep them from starvation, and that thus
they are the more ready prey of the seducer,
could they be so indifferent? In many in-
stances the net is spread for the girls by the
too wily employer, or those who are suffi-
ciently acquainted with the circumstances
to take advantage of their poverty, and in-
nocent and unsophisticated, they walk into
the snare without warning.
	Give them equality in all respects, and
let each work with the same chance of suc-
cess according to the labor performed, with-
out the consideration of sex, and there
would soon be a vast change which would
be of material benefit to the existing state
of society. But be not discouraged; small
beginnings are the most auspicious, and no
great achievement has been popular at the
outset, and so surely as "coming events cast
their shadows before" it is self-evident that
woman's cause is surely and steadily ad-
vancing; and men who possess the sound-
est principles morally and socially, if they
are really honest, will forward the move-
ment and understand the true policy of a
united effort. Woman does not seek for
any independent power, but only to become
a co-worker in the future development of
human progression, and mutual recognition
of right.
	And why not? There are plenty of in-
stances to prove that women have made
themselves famous in science, art and liter-
ature; and as rulers, have not the reigns of
queens been as successful and judicious as
those of kings?
	You may say they are only exceptional
cases where women become celebrated for
any particular genius, power or excellence
of talent or ability; but is it not equally so
with men in comparison? Woman has had
more difficulties to contend with, her ad-
vantages have been fewer, but let them
have the same opportunities for an educa-
tion, observation and experience in public
and private for a succession of years, and
then see if she is not equally endowed with
man and prepared to bear her part on all
general questions socially, politically, in-
dustrially and educationally as well as
spiritually.
	S. L. City, Aug. 21st, 1876.


