				OF NEPHI.

	Owing to a diffidence which always at-
tends me whenever I attempt to speak be-
fore my sisters in our meetings, I thought
I would write a few lines which I surely

[Column 2]
could command courage enough to read.
When a vote of thanks was given me for
the faithful performance of my duty as
secretary my heart overflowed with grati-
tude and thankfulness to my heavenly
Father for the good feeling manifested by
my sisters, but I could not express my
thanks then, which I now beg you to ac-
cept.
	When a meeting was appointed for the
organization of a Relief Society, I thought
I would attend, partly from curiosity to see
how it would be conducted not expecting
I should be called on to occupy a place in
this society, but that I would, if permitted,
at some future day become a member. But
when I entered the house, before I took my
seat our Bishop called my name for secre-
tary. I thought it impossible for me to fill
that position, and therefore begged to be
excused on the grounds that I already had
as many duties as I could perform, and that
there were many others who could fill the
place much better than I could, not having
had the advantages of an education which
would qualify me for such a position. But
my excuses were not accepted and I was
elected. I knew my inability; and the
thought came, the Lord must help me or I
shall fail; I felt humble and asked His aid,
and am now willing to give Him thanks for
the honor that was bestowed upon me at
our last meeting. I have often noticed how
well our sisters in these societies fill
their positions, and I know it is because
they are humble and willing to try with the
help of the Lord to do what is required of
them. We are not all called to fill the same
places, but every one that does her duty in
the office assigned to her to fill, be it ever
so humble a one, is just as honorable and
deserving of praise as the one who occupies
the highest position; and I think I can say
in truth that our President and Counselors'
are just as willing to award praise where
they see one attending to her duties faith-
fully, whether in attending her meetings
or in staying at home to look after the fam-
ily that God has given her; for He will re-
quire her to guard well the jewels He has
entrusted to her care. And here let me
say how often has my heart been pained to 
witness the neglect that we as mothers are
guilty of in regard to our children. When
I see so many of our girls and boys run-
ning wild, disgracing themselves and their 
parents, and sinning against God, I think
we shall not all escape punishment. Moth-
ers, let me exhort you, with myself, to gird
on the armour of watchfulness, and never,
no never lay it off again until we have
rooted out this arch enemy (recklessness)
which has been the cause of so much evil
among our young people. What a stigma
on virtue and religion, what a disgrace to
our settlement, and above all what a sin be-
fore God! Arouse sisters and let us unite
in this great work that lies before us, and
let us call on our young sisters to assist for
the responsibility also rests upon them. I
feel that we have already put this matter off
too long and that God will hold us account-
able for the same. I presume that many
mothers feel that their children are young
and want to enjoy themselves, but we
must remember that because they are
young and have not the wisdom and experi-
ence of older persons, they are not pre-
pared to shun temptation, therefore they
need our watch-care and counsel. Better,
far better to curtail their pleasures or offend
them now, than to allow them to go unre-
strained and unprotected.
	If we take the right course with our
children when they are quite young, talk
kindly to them and tell them the conse-

[Column 3]
quence of an incorrect course, and point
out the path of virtue, and portray its
blessings and advantages, there will be but
very few who will not have confidence
enough in their mothers to heed what they
say, and in after years will bless them for
their strict requirements of obedience to
their wishes, and for their guidance and
care.
	When I commenced to write, I had no
intention of touching on this subject; but it
was forcibly presented to my mind and I
felt it my duty to pen some of my thoughts
in regard to it.
	Hoping that God will help us to be dili-
gent and faithful in all the duties of life,
and fill honorably the station assigned—to
each of us, I will add no more.
							A. L. B.


