[Vol26 | January 1939 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Romance of Quilting and]
Romance of Quilting and Quilts By Lutie H. Fryer Assistant Professor—University of Utah
The intimate things of life, those that surround us as we grow up, become so much a part of everyday existence that we never think of their beginnings. If we saw them for the first time perhaps we would feel curious about their origin, but as it is, to us they never began. They just are. Such is the case of quilts.
Quilt making as a homecraft art has played no small part in the growth and development of civilization in its march across the ages. In America from the earliest colonial times to the present quilts were a necessary part of pioneer homemaking, then as a product of awakened desire for beauty in the home, and now this twentieth century revival is an appreciation of that art, which of all the time-honored household arts has withstood the machine age, and has by no means reached the climax.
As known today, the quilt is the result of combining two kinds of needlework, both of very ancient origin, but widely different in character. Patchwork is the art of piecing together fabrics of various kinds and colors; it was used by the Egyptians for their clothes, wall decoration, and furniture. Quilting is the method of fastening together layers of cloth to secure firmly the "filling". We find that knights of the middle ages wore quilted jackets under their heavy armor to protect their bodies. Such a garment was called a "jamberson". Before the ages of tapestry, the great halls were hung with quilted pictures. At the entrances, too, there was a similar hanging, because the great oaken doors, that were barricades in case of attacks, could not be opened and shut as the members of the household came and went. We still see evidences of these door curtains in some of the older churches in Europe where the metal or wooden doors are far too heavy to open each time someone enters. Later the quilted hangings were replaced by embroidered pictures and they in turn by tapestries, but quilting still held its own for bed clothes and curtains. From 1545 to almost 1620, quilting was used on some of the finest costumes; many of the skirts were quilted and embroidered in gold, and studded with pearls and other gems. In museums there are many beautiful examples of quilted petticoats that were worn during the 18th Century. Sometimes the overskirt hid the petticoat almost entirely except for a narrow panel down the front; at other times it showed beneath panniers of handsome brocade.
The quilt as we know it in America was in the beginning a strictly utilitarian article, born of the necessity of providing warm covers for beds and hangings for doors and windows to help keep out the cold winter and was so intimately connected with the everyday life of the colonies that no record of it exists. Within the four walls of the crude log cabins there was little thought of adornment or art, and yet the artistic longing, latent or inherited, in every woman where her home is concerned, unconsciously expressed itself in her quilts.
