[Vol26 | January 1939 | Sequence: 32 | Category: Guide Lessons | Title: Social Science
Lesson]

Social Science
Lesson 7
MARITAL ADJUSTMENT
Modern Conditions Make Marital Adjustment a Difficult One. Of all the adjustments, whether educational, vocational, religious, or social, perhaps marriage is the most difficult. It is highly emotional, intimate and constant. No other relationship throws such a strain on one's capacity for good adjustment, and no other reveals so clearly weaknesses of personality and character. Modern conditions have tended to make marriage increasingly difficult. The youths of today find themselves forced to postpone marriage at a time when they find themselves physically capable of mating. Mental, educational and economic preparation for marriage is delayed years beyond sexual maturity. We have not stressed the value of early marriages so much in recent years, as we have become more eager for higher education for many of our youths. Missions are often added to the program of our young people, and marriage usually must be postponed until this entire program has been completed. After education and missions, our youths find great difficulty establishing themselves economically, more so perhaps than in former days when the children grew up to take a natural share in the lands and live stock. Many of the youths of earlier days were able to take over their share and support themselves and family by age twenty. Today we have become accustomed to a standard of living which is difficult to reach and maintain when the young people marry early and have large families. Many of our young people migrate to the cities where large family groups are likely to have more of a struggle to exist than was the case on the farm where children were somewhat of an economic asset and where much was produced in the home toward their maintenance. Moreover, in recent years, women have become more prominent in industry and public life; and perhaps with the broadening of their interests, they have had a tendency to look upon the home not so much as an exclusive career. Many of our young women have achieved ability in supporting themselves before entering marriage, and on that account they find certain difficulties in coming to feel financially dependent upon their husbands.
With the spread of birth control propaganda, sex has largely been separated from reproduction for many people. Marriage too often has become established solely upon a sexual foundation, a foundation upon which the winds and rains of passion and irresponsibility beat and soon cause a great fall of the marriage structure. Fortunately, the Latter-day Saint community has resisted many serious changes and we find the home and family still our strongest social organization. Certainly in the home lies the strength of the Church and the nation. We have not loosened our standards, and we still hold to a virtuous home as the highest goal young people may have. The question comes to our minds as to whether romance loses its flavor if we make too much of a study of it. This is a real possibility, although it need not be the case. To the average person, love is considered to be quite separate from good judgment. It is an instinctive reaction which asks for no reasons as to why it functions as it does. Many matings are based purely on romantic attraction with little consideration as to the hereditary background or intelligence of the loved one. Likewise, it is thought that information can be mixed with as little success as the image of clay and iron of which the scriptures speak. However, with the progress of education and the extending of scientific knowledge of sex and personality, we may rightly hope that attitudes based on information and intelligent understanding of sex and mating will gradually shape our aesthetic taste and finally come to have considerable control over our selection of mates and over our romantic lives in general. Some recent authorities on the psychology of sex have emphasized sexual compatibility as the basis of all successful marriages. Because the sexual side of marriage had so seldom entered into polite discussion, there was a trend of thought which swung to the other extreme of explaining everything in human conduct on a sexual basis. However, more conservative thought on the subject today is recognizing that, while sexual adjustments are important, marital happiness rests upon a much broader foundation. Indifference and boredom are the end results of a marriage that does not include intellectual comradeship, personality traits in the two persons which blend without too much friction (including all of the personal peculiarities of both parties), social life which is mutually satisfying, and some unfolding, creative aim in which both parties take part. Romance may be much broader than sex; it may include all of the cooperative adventures that make life interesting and worth living.
Personality Strain Calls for Constant Revision of Habits and Attitudes.
Romantic love is "touchy", i.e., it may be destroyed by the many lingering irritations which may arise in the course of adjusting two lives to the task of living together.
When we think of the unkindness we show in the home toward those who mean the most to us, there is little wonder that so many marriages are destroyed, either in spirit or in fact. We wouldn't think of insulting our neighbors as we do the members of our own family.
Perhaps the reason for much of our bad behavior toward each other in the home is that we are able to set up our own rules of conduct there without much criticism from the outside, since the home is relatively private. In no other relationship are the flaws in our personality and character revealed so clearly as in marriage.
Nowhere else are such exacting demands made upon us, and in no other relationship are we required to give and take so much. In our personal wishes, we must always take account of the welfare and wishes of others, and personal enjoyments must in many cases give way to those that suit others in the family.
Personal associates who are obnoxious to the other party to the marriage must be dropped in preference for those who are acceptable to everyone. Of course, all of these adjustments cause the most severe strain on one's personality and are likely to reveal in a short time both parties' greatest weaknesses.
Disagreeable dispositions appear first; if the strain is prolonged and severe, then appear weaknesses of character, such as dishonesty, infidelity, alcoholism, and desertion.
That differences of opinion and conflicting habits and attitudes will appear should be expected, and even welcomed if they can be properly met.
Happy couples usually establish some court between themselves to which they can take their difficulties and make good-humored and intelligent adjustments promptly before deep emotions are stirred up to blind their judgment.
Among the most difficult kinds of adjustments required are those between the partners to the marriage and the relatives on both sides.
This is particularly difficult when the couple are forced to live with either of the families.
When people marry, they must exercise considerably more independence of judgment and action than was the case when they lived under the shelter of their parents' homes.
Unless married people are thrown on their own resources, both financial and intellectual, they are likely to remain immature and to have greater difficulty making their own decisions and their own way when they finally must. Furthermore, troubles between the couple are usually made worse by those who listen to them.
Romance often helps to solve difficulties, but those who are not parties to the romance are likely to carry feelings longer and keep stirred up unpleasant subjects which would otherwise be forgotten. However, it would probably be unwise for married people to attempt to sever all contacts with their previous homes, friends, interests, and hobbies.
Contacts outside the home are probably necessary to give one a proper view of life and human understanding.
Marriages may go sour simply because of the attempt of one party or the other to break off all contacts outside the home. For the most wholesome personality development, mingling with many people is important. Professor Lewis M. Terman, of Stanford University, published in 1935 the results of a study in which he administered a variety of personality tests to a large group of happily married people, divorced couples, and unhappily married couples. His results indicate some personality qualities which contribute to the disruption of marriage and others which seem to be the basis of happy marriages. He summarizes his results as follows: "Outstanding traits of the happily married, both husbands and wives, include emotional stability, social adaptability, uplift interests, and a tendency to conservatism, the men showing more tolerance and sympathy than the women. The unhappily give most evidence of neurotic and introvertive tendencies, intolerant attitudes, and volitional inadequacy." (Johnson W. B., and Terman, L. M. "Personality Characteristics of Happily Married and Unhappily Married, and Divorced Persons," page 311. For complete article, see Character and Personality, 1935, Vol. 3, pp. 290-311.)
Training for Marriage Begins in the Cradle.
Most of the causes of difficulties in marital adjustment have their beginning in childhood. To train our children to be good husbands or wives we should begin in their infancy.
Failure in marriage is most often explained by the development of inadequate social habits?respect for the rights and interests of others, tolerance, honesty, good humor, sociability, and a general high level of moral and religious life.
These qualities are acquired in the course of growth, if the educational and social influences are right.
Temper tantrums are planted in the cradle and often bear fruit in the divorce court. Any two people entering marriage bring into the bargain all of the effects of good or bad training from infancy up.
Little defects of personality can often be corrected when they conflict with the personality of another in the intimate relations of marriage; but often the parties are either unwilling or unable to make corrections in their habits of dealing with people, which they have practiced all their lives.
Chronic irritations of this kind frequently make marriage so disagreeable that, if separation is not resorted to, the lives of both parties are permanently blighted. The woman whose parents have given her every advantage is often defeated when she must meet the hard realities of keeping house and limiting her spending. The romance of marriage suddenly changes into a continual round of unpleasant duties, such as dish-washing, floor-mopping, mending, and budget keeping. However, if a sense of responsibility has been developed in the young girl as she grows up, it is much easier for her to lighten the load of these tasks by fitting them into the personal ideal of making an efficient and happy household. The husband, on the other hand, who as he has grown up has developed responsibility for meeting certain of his duties about the home and who has already learned something of earning his own way and caring for his own property will find marriage a much easier adjustment than the one who has had over-solicitous parents who have done all of his thinking and provided for all of his financial needs. One psychologist, G. W. Crane, has presented some evidence from census records to show that the order in which children come into the family has something to do with their chances of being divorced. He found that boys who were "only children" have a divorce hazard about five times as great as their number in the population would justify, and "only girls" about four times as great.
Children who are born in the middle of the family, i.e., those with at least one older and one younger brother or sister, have the lowest divorce hazard.
Children who have been ill more than average are likely to have personality difficulties which make happy marriage difficult. In fact, any of those circumstances which are likely to contribute to behavior difficulties in children are likely to affect the happiness of a marriage.
Particularly straining on a marriage are those extremely strong parent-child fixations which prevent the young people from truly growing up and finding their rightful place in the adult world. HILDREN Are Often the Best Protection of a Happy Marriage.
After the romantic period of a marriage has passed, the need becomes important for acquiring some unfolding, creative aim which can be shared by both husband and wife.
Some couples take up hobbies, such as landscape gardening or art collections, which frequently aid in holding them together. Others: become mutually absorbed in making a living through a business enterprise. To Latter-day Saints, one of the best fields for mutual endeavor is in the Church program.
Unquestionably a devout religious faith which is shared by both parties without serious disagreement as to details is one of the best safeguards against drifting apart. However, the most common and most satisfactory bond that can be made is the rearing of a family.
There is no other undertaking in which the interests of a couple can be so mutually enjoyed.
Home duties and making a living, both of which may have naturally distasteful elements, at once become lightened and directed toward a common goal when the first child comes.
Better behavior toward each other becomes more necessary on the part of the parents, since the example they set begins to affect the lives of their children.
Good conduct between the parents at home is then carried into the school and community through the good behavior of the children, and public opinion enters the family picture.
There is no worse preparation for marriage than for one to have parents who have separated after failure to make the necessary adjustRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, JANUARY - 63 ments themselves.
Children who are moved from one parent to the other acquire conflicting ideals with resulting confusion and strain which reflect in difficulties in school, and which often lead them into the juvenile court as children, and into the divorce court as adults. PIRITUALITY in the Home Is One of Its Greatest Safeguards.
Marriage is something much more to Latter-day Saints than an earthly contract for the satisfying of emotional needs. It bears deep signifcance as to our welfare in the hereafter. To bring children into the world and properly care for them is asked of us by the Lord. Our responsibility then becomes doubly serious.
When we think of our relationships in marriage as being a preparation for greater opportunity to live happily together in the hereafter, we are impelled to redouble our efforts to make a success of our relationship on earth. Problems For Discussion 1.
Show why marriages which are built on a purely romantic basis are likely to be unsatisfactory.
Enumerate some other important factors in marital adjustment. 2.
What would you say is the place of children in preserving marital happiness? How can differences over children disrupt a marriage? 3.
Discuss how a common religious faith may contribute to the permanence of a marriage. 4.
Show how marriage brings out all of the defects and virtues of personality and character. 5.
When and how do we learn to be good husbands or wives? 6.
Discuss the spiritual significance of marriage.
Show how this should make marriage more permanent, 64 - JANUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE &ducation for Family Life FAMILY RELATIONSHIPS Lesson 4
Growing Up Emotionally