[Vol26 | January 1939 | Sequence: 28 | Category: Guide | Title: Lesson Department]
LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology and Testimony Lesson 7 PETER THE FISHERMAN HELPFUL REFERENCES James E. Talmage ?
Jesus the Christ, pp. 218 f., 197-199, 691 f. A. B. Bruce?The Training of the Twelve.
Consult index under the heading of Peter. Gustaf Dalman?Sacred Sites and Ways, pp. 121-183. (Macmillan Co., New York, 1935).
This book contains a wealth of reliable and stimulating material on the topography of the Gospels.
Will be of great value to close students of the New Testament. C. E. Macartney?Of Them He Chose Twelve, pp. 108-121. OUR Interest in the Apostle Peter. The Gospels and the Acts tell us more about Peter than about any other member of the Twelve. Our interest in him is very keen for that reason if no other.
Enough is said about Peter to give us a reasonably clear picture of the man,?his strong points and weaknesses are admirably pictured in the New Testament writings. 'The sheer humanity of Peter makes a strong appeal to the average individual. He has a winsome personality that commands the love of all who read the accounts of his life and work. Latter-day Saints and Catholics probably hold him in higher esteem than do most other Christian peoples because of their special views on priesthood and Church organization. We asa people do not believe that Peter was overshadowed by Paul and John in ancient Church circles. To the contrary.
Peter was the leader of the Church following Christ's death and highly respected as such.
That this was so seems to be attested by the fact that the Gospels and Acts devote so much space to him as compared to the other apostles. We can quite understand the situation by reference to our own day. The President of the Church wields great influence wherever he goes.
Consequently newspapers and magazines devote much space to him in their columns.
Accounts of his travels and sermons are fully chronicled. The special attention paid by our Lord to Peter and the fact that the latter was promised the "keys of the kingdom of heaven" are also strong evidences in favor of his primacy in the ancient Church. The work of Peter in this dispensation is an added reason for our interest in him. SIMON PETER'S Early Life.? We do not know many details of Peter's early life, but fortunately research has disclosed to us much of interest respecting Galilee (the probable place of his birth) in New Testament times. The apostle was the son of a man by the name of Jona (Matt. 16:17) who may have been a fisherman by trade. It would be quite natural therefore for Jona's sons, Peter and Andrew, to follow in his footsteps. But even if Jona was not a fisherman it would have been easy for Peter and Andrew to pick up the trade from other men because Bethsaida, the little village in which they lived, was a fishing center on the northeast shore of the Sea of Galilee. Dr. Gustaf Dalman points out that Galilee was "eminently conducive to the development of a unique type of Jew."
Josephus writes of the courage and pugnacity of the Galileans. The Galilee fishermen were a humble but hardy group of men, and it is significant that so many of the Master's Twelve came from their ranks. As a boy Peter probably learned Greek as a matter of course for it was frequently used and had a wide sphere of influence in Galilee. His native language was Aramaic, and a knowledge of Latin would come to him through his contact with the Romans. We have already pointed out in a previous lesson that Peter's brother, Andrew, had a genuine Greek name. Professor Dalman says, "It is very probable that the brother of Andrew, Simon, was not called in the family circle by the Hebrew form Shim'on, but by the Hellenised (Greek) form, Simon, a form which together with Shim'on, is also found in Jewish literature.
Even his second name, Petros, in its Greek form, is not rare there."
When entering into young manhood Peter and Andrew seem to have formed a partnership with each other in the fishing industry.
Then as business grew Peter and his brother entered into a partnership with James and John, the sons of Zebedee, for the purpose of enlarging their opportunities and profit.
Such it is reasonable for us to conjecture.
Business seems to have been profitable for the Gospels indicate that they owned their boats and hired other fishermen to help them. (Mark 1:16-20; Luke 5:7, 10.) Peter and his immediate colleagues were therefore substantial business men in the community in which they lived.
The Life of a Fisherman.?The Sea of Galilee still contains many varieties of fish, and the fisherman still carries on his trade as of yore. The net still remains the favorite means with which to catch fish. There are two types of nets, the casting net and the drag net. Occasionally fishing was done by means of hooks attached to lines. This practice is reflected in the advice of the Master to Peter: "Go thou to the sea and cast a hook, and take up the fish that first cometh up and when thou hast opened his mouth, thou shalt find a piece of money." (Matt. 17:27)
After fishing it was necessary to wash the nets. (Luke 5:2) They were then spread out on poles near the shore to dry. It will be recalled that Peter was standing unclothed in his boat when he recognized the Risen Lord. (John 21:7) Little or no clothing was worn while fishing in order to be able at a moment's notice to dive into the water and free the net from rocks and debris as it was brought to shore. When Peter recognized his Master he drew on his short shirt in order that he might not appear before him unclothed. Dr. Dalman says, "It has been thought strange that Peter should don what was probably a wet garment. Sven Hedin, however, states that when sailing on the lake in July, with an air temperature of 87.7? Fahr. and the water 84.1?, he found it very pleasant to pour water over his clothes and let them dry in the wind." It is not at all unlikely that in Peter's day the art, not now used, of salting or drying fish was practised. This is deduced from the fact that the Greek name of the city of Magdala was Tarichaeae (preservation of fish by salting or drying). Magdala is said to have had a population of 40,000 people and 230 fishing boats. This city's position on important roads was of great consequence to the fishing trade. At times business visits were probably made to this place by members of the firm of Peter, Andrew, James, and John. The town had an unsavory reputation. Most of the fishing of these future apostles was probably in the waters of the Sea of Galilee between Bethsaida and Capernaum.
