[Vol26 | January 1939 | Sequence: 31 | Category: Article | Title: Happenings]

happenings in England at that particular time. Such procedure gives the story a genuineness that makes it sound like factual history. Some of the great descriptions in the book, as Keller points out, are John Ridd's rescuing of Lorna from Doone Glen, "the attempted murder in the church, the final duel with Carver Doone, and others,"?these, Keller says, "stand out as great and glowing pictures." Descriptions such as those mentioned present pictures of the hero and heroine in colors that will live, they are so full of quaint declarations which give the slant of the big fellow's mind. I shall cite one such scene: John is in the Doone valley bent upon rescuing Lorna, eager to be unseen and unheard when this bit of description follows: "And then I crossed, with more care, and to the door of Lorna's house, and made the sign, and listened, after taking my snow-shoes off. But no one came, as I expected, neither could I espy a light. And I seemed to hear a faint low sound, like the moaning of the snow-wind. Then I knocked again more loudly, with a knocking at my heart, and receiving no answer, set all my power at once against the door; in a few moments it flew inwards, and I glided along the passage with my feet still slippery. There in Lorna's room I saw, by the moonlight flowing in, a sight which drove me beyond my sense. Lorna was behind a chair, crouching in a corner. In the middle of the room lay Gwenny Carfax, stupid, yet with one hand clutching the ankle of a struggling man. Another man stood above my Lorna, trying to draw the chair away. In a moment I had him round the waist, and he went out of the window with a mighty crash of glass; luckily for him the window had no bars, like some of them. Then I took the other man by the neck; and he could not plead for mercy. I bore him out of the house as lightly as I would bear a baby, yet squeezing his throat a little more than I fain would do to an infant. By the bright moonlight I saw that I carried Marwood de Wichehalse. For his father's sake I spared him, and because he had been my school fellow; but with every muscle of my body strung with indignation, I cast him, like a skittle, from me into a snow drift, which closed over him. Then I looked for the other fellow, tossed through Lorna's window, and found him lying stunned and bleeding, neither able to groan yet. Charleworth Doone, if his gushing blood did not much mislead me."
That passage would, of course, be hard to accept had not Blackmore carefully built up a character for John Ridd that would make the conquering of two men seem easy and the throwing of them through windows and into snow-drifts ordinary, indeed. Scarcely in literature is to be found a sterner picture than that of the mighty Ridd meeting the mighty Carver Doone. Ridd is following the fleeing Carver. Being unarmed, the mighty John "rising from my horse's back although I had no stirrups, I caught a limb, and tore it (like a wheat-awn) from the socket. Men show the rent even now, with wonder; none with more wonder than myself."
The pursued Doone stops at the edge of the bog where John Ridd uses his oak limb to good effect. He strikes the Doone horse knocking him to the ground. Then we have a picture of a struggle that is classic: "I stretched forth my left hand, as I do to a weaker antagonist, and I let him have the hug of me. But in this I was too generous; having forgotten my pistol wound, and the cracking of one of my short lower ribs. Carver Doone caught me round the waist, with such a grip as never yet had been laid upon me. I heard my rib go, I grasped his arm, and tore the muscle out of it (as the string comes out of an orange); then I took him by the throat, which is not allowed in wrestling; but he had snatched at mine; and now was no time of dalliance. In vain he tugged and strained and writhed, dashed his bleeding fist into my face, and flung himself on me, with gnashing jaws. Beneath the iron of my strength?for God that day was with me?I had him helpless in two minutes, and his fiery eyes lolled out."
Those were strong and mighty men. Surely nowhere in fiction, even in the great stories of Richard the Lion-hearted, by Sir Walter Scott himself, is there to be found a stronger or braver hero. John Ridd, true to his simple character, closes his narrative with: "Of Lorna, of my lifelong darling, of my more and more loved wife I will not talk; for it is not seemly that a man should exalt his pride. Year by year, her beauty grows, with the growth of goodness, kindness, and true happiness?above all with love. For change, she makes a joke of this and plays with it, and laughs at it; and then, when my slow nature marvels, back she comes to the earnest thing. And if I wish to pay her out for something very dreadful?as may happen once or twice, when we become too gladsome?I bring her to forgotten sadness, and to me for cure of it, by the two words 'Lorna Doone'."
That is the last paragraph in this book of six hundred forty-six pages, each filled with beautiful descriptions, fine characterizations, splendid bits of smart conversation, and a delightful and ever-present humor. Big John Ridd is a quaint chap, powerful beyond measure, though, according to his own words, a bit slow in the head. The narrative, however, denies the latter.
Suggestions
1. Read The Advance of the English Novel, Chapter 5.
2. Become a little acquainted with the times of King Charles II, King James II, and Queen Anne. You may do this by reading in a history book or the encyclopedia.
3. List the principal characters in Lorna Doone and characterize each.
4. Outline very briefly the plot of the story.
5. Have passages of importance or interest in the book marked for reading. These should advance the plot, reveal character, or they should reveal the style of the author. A few examples: Ridd's fight at school?reveals his courage; his meeting with Lorna Doone?from chapter 8; from chapter 26?as revealing John's powers of repartee; from chapter 27?as revealing John's love; etc.
6. Find and read what you can of Blackmore.