able. Besides the material touched upon above, there is included a valuable course of study which enables any mother to guide her children through an entire course, beginning in babyhood and ending well after adolescence. It ought to assist materially in answering the annual question "What books shall I give my children for Christmas?" GREETINGS HEALTH Childhood Tuberculosis By H. E. Kleinschmidt, M. D. Few people know that children may have a disease of the lung glands which is different from adult tuberculosis, but often a forerunner of it. When discovered during childhood the prospects are far brighter of maintaining health than when the child has grown up, and the disease may have developed into the commonly known type of tuberculosis. Because of this, one of the primary reasons for conducting the Christmas seal sale is to raise money to promote the early discovery of those children who now have within their bodies the seeds of grave future danger. Usually the condition is unknown to the family. There are no clear and unmistakable evidences of it apparent to the eye of the physician at a cursory examination. Its detection requires special skill and experience aided by the tuberculin test and the X-ray. Certain warning signals indicate those children who should be given the benefit of these tests. The child may show signs of underweight and slight weakness; his appetite may be poor; he may be somewhat pale; he may tire easily and be lacking in pep. But all these symptoms may be due to other causes?only the tuberculin test and X-ray in the hands of a competent doctor can ascertain the facts with certainty. In the beginning this condition is not lung tuberculosis at all. The breathing surface has not been invaded. In childhood the disorder is usually confined to small glands about the size of beans, which are located at the point where the windpipe divides into two branches, one going to each lung. These glands serve as filters. If the germs of tuberculosis get into the lung, the lung glands tend to stop them from getting into the blood circulation, but in doing so the glands may themselves become damaged. Ultimately the injured portion of the gland is replaced by a hard gritty substance called calcium, which makes a distinct shadow on the X-ray plate. Children who live or have lived in homes with adults having tuberculosis should be given these tests, as it is close contact with
 
the disease that is most dangerous. Undernourished children who fail to respond to intelligent feeding and plenty of sleep should also be examined. Perhaps the best thing is for all children to have such a thorough examination, with X-ray and tuberculin test. Lung gland tuberculosis can usually be prevented from developing into lung tuberculosis. By shielding children from receiving additional large doses of tubercle bacilli, active tuberculosis can usually be avoided. If there is another case of tuberculosis in the family and it is impossible for him or her to be in a sanitarium, every precaution should be taken, such as never kissing the child, scalding and washing separately all dishes and eating utensils and destroying the sputum, preferably by burning. The patient most certainly must sleep alone. The child with lung gland tuberculosis should be relieved of all possible strain at home and in school. Strenuous exercise and fatigue must be avoided. Defects, such as bad teeth and tonsils, must be corrected and good daily health habits cultivated. Nourishing food, sunshine and fresh air in abundance are essential. Ten or more hours of sleep at night and rest periods of an hour or more morning and afternoon are necessary. Just as rest is the secret of successful treatment of tuberculosis, so also is it the most important preventive of that disease. In fact, everything possible should be done to build up the child's general health. Preventoria established in some communities conduct special supervised school work for children threatened with tuberculosis, heart disease and other handicaps. These schools aim to help parents carry out the health-building program outlined above. Such all-year-round work as is here described is fostered by the National Tuberculosis Association and its 1,400 affiliated organizations throughout the country. They are conducting their annual Christmas seal sale from Thanksgiving Day through Christmas. In Utah the Tuberculosis Association is combating the disease by teaching the importance of frequent health examinations, and the necessity of keeping the children up to their normal weight. The Christmas Seal Camp, in Big Cottonwood Canyon, which is conducted for six weeks each summer, is one of the ways in which this education is accomplished. Here children are not only properly fed and supervised but they learn health habits, which enable them to continue the improvement in health which begins in Camp. The second means of carrying on tuberculosis prevention is the field nurse, who goes from county to county promoting health examinations, clinics, teaching classes of mothers and, when there is no county health service, making inspection of school children. The third means used is the furnishing of health teaching material to school teachers. This consists of posters, pamphlets and plays. These activities are made possible through the sale of Christmas seals.