Your Part in Utah's Centennial Prepared by the Utah Centennial Commission David O. McKay, Chairman; A. Hamer Reiser, Secretary *"at the request of the Church Beautification Committee. 
DESPITE war-imposed handicaps, Utah will celebrate her Centennial in 1947 appropriately and well, because her citizens descendants of pioneers possess to a degree, at least, the sterling characters of the pioneers themselves.
To celebrate the Centennial fittingly under the pressure of war and its aftermath, will require idealism, vision, fortitude, and an abundance of hard work.
Time is running against us, and, as it runs away in wartime, it takes with it opportunities to obtain materials and labor for the extensive program of construction contemplated in the original plan of the Centennial Commission. Adaptations and simplification of that plan may therefore be imperative.
Features of the Commission's original plan, in which materials are a minor part, can, nevertheless, be developed in wartime. These include many of the cultural and spiritual aspects of the celebration. History, music, and the other arts, and the modern facilities for their expression, can be utilized for the presentation of the essential message of the Centennial. These can be effectively employed locally in community projects large and small. Schools, churches, clubs in all parts of the State can be busy hives of productive activity in furtherance of the fundamental Centennial theme.
To a substantial degree certain of the most important physical aspects
of the Centennial can be developed, war or no war.
In the course of doing our daily tasks, even in wartime, every one of us can, by spending an extra hour today and another tomorrow, work at transformation in a year's time in the appearance of his home, farm, shop or factory. If each of us can have the help and co-operation of family, neighbors, and associates in business, church or club activities, and, in his turn, will give a full measure of help and co-operation with an eye to the beautification of his surroundings, the State of Utah can be adorned with attractive villages, towns, and cities well before the close of the Centennial year.
War-imposed restrictions may aid rather than hinder us in this achievement. Deprived of means and opportunity to travel, we can spend our time, energy and money at home and have, as the outcome, the satisfaction and pride of having our own products and arrangements, neatness, and beauty in our immediate surroundings.
Who has not enjoyed a merited sense of satisfaction and pride upon seeing, as the result of his handiwork, a neatly kept lawn; a well-cultivated and arranged garden; beautiful shrubs, stately, healthy trees; a well-laid-out farm, efficiently managed; an orderly and attractive home, shop or factory! Whoever has not had this experience has been denied one of the most gratifying of emo-
Page 70 YOUR PART IN UTAH'S CENTENNIAL 71 There is beauty and inspiration in every manifestation of care and pride in the use and preservation of machinery, tools, equipment, furniture, buildings, fences, houses, barns, and shops. It takes the soul of an artist and a poet to keep alive the appreciation of orderliness and craftsmanship which was so plentiful in Utah pioneer communities. One needs only to take the time to examine the buildings erected by early settlers of this State to discover a high standard of care and craftsmanship in the construction and adornment of their buildings. These are the evidences of culture, artistic sense, self-respect, and character in craftsmanship which we today must emulate, and by doing so honor ourselves as being worthy of our pioneer ancestry. Our Centennial Celebration will be empty and unworthy, if we do not exhibit unmistakable evidence of civic pride and of the sturdy virtues of industry and good husbandry, orderliness, neatness and love of beautification, which are such eloquent expression of the idealism of the pioneers. They dreamed dreams of beauty for their mountain homeland, and they worked hard to make those dreams real in productive fields and blossoming landscape. NATURE has made Utah beautiful with unmatchable color and variety. We who love her wall aid her, and will never let it be truthfully said of us that "man is the great de-facer." If we sincerely admire her and love her for her beauty, we delight in paying our homage to her by doing everything we can to enhance her beauty, and nothing to mar it. Utah, the Star of the West, gains her physical beauty and color from nature, and her brilliance and luster from the sterling character of her citizens, who express their virtues in the attractiveness of their persons, personalities, and property. The Centennial Celebration of 1947, war or no war, will call the people of the State upon the stage, in the center of the spotlight, to exhibit the fruits of their pioneer heritage. Shall we earn the applause of the audience, as being worthy of the admiration which our famous ancestors have won? A good, practical example of collective community action toward beautification is offered in the situation in certain Salt Lake City areas where fast-growing, short-lived trees were planted in the early days to provide quick shade. These have now spent themselves and are dead. Equipped with available city-owned machinery, responsible groups of individuals, civic clubs, priesthood groups or quorums, by working to a well-planned schedule and assignments, could remove the trees in a short time, cut up and save the wood against times of local need and, at the same time, improve the general appearance of the community, remove hazards to life and property and make ready for planting of new trees according to the city's plan. A similar project in many Utah communities can be the starting point for wartime community beautification. Every community, through the action of individuals and organized groups, can participate in annual or more frequent "clean-up and paint-up" campaigns, and can thus put in (Continued on page 128) Second Prize Story Annual Relief Society Short Story contest