Theology Church History Lesson 8?A Period of Prophecy Dr. H. Wayne Diiggs For Tuesday, May 1, 1945 Objective: To establish the test of a prophet and to study events that prompted the words of the modern seer, Joseph Smith. IN the days of ancient Israel the Lord made clear the way in which his people might know his voice. To Moses came the word, "There shall not be found among you any one that maketh his son or his daughter to pass through the fire, or that useth divination, or an observer of times, or an enchanter, or a witch, or a charmer, or a consulter with familiar spirits, or a wizard, or a necromancer. For all that do these things are an abomination unto the Lord: and because of these abominations the Lord thy God doth drive them out from before thee. Thou shalt be perfect with the Lord thy God. For these nations, which thou shalt possess, hearkened unto observers of times, and unto diviners: but as for thee, the Lord thy God hath not suffered thee so to do. The Lord thy God will raise up unto thee a Prophet from the midst of thee, of thy brethren, like unto me; unto him ye shall hearken; And it shall come to pass, that whosoever will not hearken unto my words which he shall speak in my name, I will require it of him. But the prophet which shall presume to speak a word in my name, which I have not commanded him to speak, or that shall speak in the name of other gods, even that prophet shall die. And if thou say in thine heart, How shall we know the word which the Lord hath not spoken? When a prophet speaketh in the name of the Lord, if the thing follow not, nor come to pass, that is the thing which the Lord hath not spoken, but the prophet hath spoken it presumptuously: thou shall not be afraid of him." (Deut. 18:10-15, 19-22). The words of a true prophet will come to pass. Not since the days of the apostles in the meridian of time had the Lord raised up a prophet according to this pattern, until, upon that spring morning in the year of 1820, when the young Joseph Smith put to a Page 113 test the power of godliness. From that day on, for a period of some twenty-four years?the remaining time of mortal life allotted to this Prophet of the Lord?there lived among men one accepted of God, worthy to receive his word in opening the dispensation of the fulness of times. Within that short quarter of a century, there lived a modern seer whose contact with the Almighty was so close that the very whisperings of his voice were unmistakable.
What were the words of this leader of mortal Israel, and how did he deliver them? Were any of his associates ever present during the times revelations came? How would they know he was truly "in the spirit" and not obsessed as a "charmer of wizard"? What of his countenance, his voice, under such visionary experiences? As for the supreme test, when he spoke in the name of the Lord did the thing of which he spoke ever come to pass within the lives of those who heard? These and dozens of similar questions will flood the mind of an earnest seeker after truth today, just as they did when Joseph the Prophet himself walked among men.
We do have the answers to these and many other questions like them now; first, in the recorded words of the men and women who lived with and knew the Prophet intimately; and second, in the unfailing and literal fulfillment of many of his prophecies within the lives of those who heard them uttered.
Within the limited words allotted for these lessons, it is impossible to include even a hundredth part of the many facts now on record which bear testimony of the divine calling of Joseph Smith. We must therefore include but a few more widely known and readily appreciated about the Prophet's way of receiving revelations, as well as some of the timely predictions he gave which now we can look back upon with wonder.
For an account of the Prophet's appearance we may turn to the words of Parley P. Pratt: "President Joseph Smith was in person tall and well built, strong and active, of a light complexion, light hair, blue eyes, very little beard, and of an expression peculiar to himself, on which the eye naturally rested with interest, and was never weary of beholding. His countenance was ever mild, affable, beaming with intelligence and benevolence; mingled with a look of interest and an unconscious smile, a cheerfulness, and entirely free from all restraint or affection of gravity; and there was something connected with the serene and penetrating glance of his eye, as if he would penetrate the deepest abyss of the human heart, gaze into eternity, penetrate the heavens, and comprehend all worlds.
"He possessed a noble boldness and independence of character; his manner was easy and familiar; his rebuke terrible as the lion; his benevolence unbounded as the ocean; his intelligence universal, and his language abounding in original eloquence, peculiar to himself?not polished?not studied?not smoothed and softened by education and refined by art; but flowing forth in its own native simplicity, and profusely abounding in variety of subject and manner. He interested and edified, while at the same time, he amused and entertained his audience; and none listened to him that were ever weary with his discourse. I have even known him to retain a congregation of willing and anxious listeners for many hours together, in the midst of cold or sunshine, rain or wind, while they were laughing at one moment, and weeping the next. Even his most bitter enemies were overcome, generally, if he could once get their ears. (Doc. and Cov. Commentary, pp. 18,19).
From the book Stories About Joseph Smith the Prophet, pp. 166-168, compiled by Edwin F. Parry, we read the following, describing the manner in which the Prophet looked when receiving and dictating a revelation: "The early day Apostle Parley P. Pratt has left on record the Prophet's mode of giving revelations. Elder Pratt and some others called upon Joseph respecting some evil spirit manifestations which they had observed in a certain branch of the Church. Their desire was to know what might be done to banish the evil. While these brethren were with the Prophet he inquired of the Lord about the matter. After we had joined in prayer in his translating room,' writes Elder Pratt, 'he dictated in our presence the following revelation: (Doc. and Cov. 50). Each sentence was uttered slowly, and very distinctly and with a pause between each, sufficiently long for it to be recorded by an ordinary writer, in longhand. This was the manner in which all his written revelations were dictated and written. There was never any hesitation, reviewing, or reading back, in order to keep the run of the subject; neither did any of these communications undergo revisions, interlining or corrections. As he dictated them so they stood, so far as I have witnessed; and I was present to witness the dictation of several communications of several pages each."
"Commenting on this description of the manner in which revelations were given to the Prophet, the History of the Church [Vol. 1, page 173] has this to say: 'This statement of Elder Pratt's is true in a general way, and valuable as a description of the manner in which revelations were dictated by the Prophet; and needs modifying only to the extent of saying that some of the early revelations first published in the "Book of Commandments" in 1833, were revised by the Prophet himself in the copy of correcting errors made by the scribes and publishers; and some additional clauses were inserted to throw light upon the subjects treated in the revelations, and paragraphs added, to make the principles or instructions apply to officers not in the Church at the time some of the earlier revelations were given.'"
More, too, was given by this Prophet of the Lord than the revelations recorded in the Doctrine and Covenants. Joseph was also known as a seer. Because he possessed this rare gift, he could foretell the coming of great events. Possibly the one event most widely remembered, of which he spoke is the prophecy concerning the establishment of the saints in the Far West. Here is a prophecy which came to pass within the lives of many who heard it uttered.
Again from the Stories About Joseph Smith, pp. 113-118: "Joseph Smith's Journal, as contained in the History of the Church [Vol. V, pp. 85-86], has this entry under date of August 6, 1842: 'Passed over the river (from Nauvoo, Illinois) to Montrose, Iowa.... [had a conversation with a number of brethren in the shade of the building on the subject of our persecutions in Missouri and the constant annoyance which has followed us since we were driven from that state. "? prophesied that the Saints would continue to suffer much affliction and would be driven to the Rocky Mountains, many would apostatize, others would be put to death by our persecutors or lose their lives in consequence of exposure or disease, and some of you will live to go and assist in making settlements and build cities and see the saints become a mighty people in the midst of the Rocky Mountains.  "?Among those present when this prediction was uttered was Elder Anson Call, who has left on record additional details respecting this remarkable prediction. He says that in the shade of the building mentioned was a barrel of ice water and the men were drinking it to quench their thirst on that hot August day. The Prophet warned the brethren not to be too free with it. What follows is in Elder Calls own words: "With the tumbler still in his hand he prophesied that the Saints would yet go to the Rocky Mountains; 'and,' said he, 'this water tastes much like that of the crystal streams that are running from the snowcapped mountains.' "I had before seen him in a vision, and now saw, while he was talking, his countenance change to white; not the deathly white of a bloodless face, but a living brilliant white. He seemed absorbed in gazing at something at a great distance, and said 1 am gazing upon the valleys of those mountains.' This was followed by a vivid description of the scenery of these mountains, as I have since become acquainted with it. "Pointing to Shadrach Roundy and others, he said: 'There are some men here who shall do a great work in that land.' Pointing to me, he said: There is Anson, he shall go and shall assist in building up cities from one end of the country to the other, and you' (rather extending the idea to all those he had spoken of) 'shall perform as great a work as has been done by man; so that the nations. Of the earth shall be astonished; and many of them will be gathered in that land and assist in building cities and temples, and Israel shall be made to rejoice.' "It was impossible to represent in words this scene, which is still vivid in my mind, of the grandeur of Joseph's appearance, his beautiful descriptions of this land and his wonderful prophetic utterances as they emanated from the glorious inspiration that overshadowed him. "The subsequent history of the Latter-day Saints attests the fulfillment of that remarkable prediction.... That part of the prophecy relative to what Anson Call would do in the settlement of the valleys of the mountains,... Was literally fulfilled also. When Call came to Utah he first located in what is now Davis County. In 1850 he settled in Little Salt Lake Valley and also in Parowan. He then moved to the northern part of Utah, but was called to take charge of a colonizing company to settle in Pauvan Valley. In 1851 he assisted in founding Fillmore in Millard County. In 1854 he established Call's Fort; and in 1856 LESSON DEPARTMENT 117 he was sent to Carson Valley, Nevada, on a colonizing expedition. In 1858 he returned to Utah and in 1864 he was colonizing in Colorado and southwestern Utah." For him who would know the truth of God's promise given in Deuteronomy concerning a prophet, there stands today as solemn witness the Church of Jesus Christ.. Its members, the Latter-day Saints, bear testimony by the thousands of the fulfillment of God's word through the instrumentality of the modern Seer and Prophet Joseph Smith. If this man stood alone in a knowledge of the power of godliness upon the threshold of that day in the spring of 1820, there now has come a great host to join his company. After more than a century, an ever-swelling multitude of human souls affirm quietly, but with deep conviction, that the voice Joseph never forgot had put words in his mouth from heaven, both true and eternal. Suggestions for Active Reading and Discussion With the help of the suggestive readings given below have the class carry on the discussion as follows: first, answer the question; second, read the assigned part in the Doctrine and Covenants to discover wherein we must "give heed unto his word" which has been written especially for our life in this day. 1. How can a permanent peace be established? Read carefully section 87 of the Doctrine and Covenants. Note the date of this prophecy as compared to the outbreak of the Civil War in 1861. The teacher should make full use of the notes following this section as found in the Doctrine and Covenants Commentary. Read the general notes found on page 1009 in the Doctrine and Covenants Commentary concerning Judge Stephen A. Douglas. Study in the following books will add enrichment to this lesson: The Introduction to the Doctrine and Covenants Commentary; Stones About Joseph Smith the Prophet compiled by Edwin F. Parry; and The Prophecies of Joseph Smith and Their Fulfillment by Nephi L. Morris. The teacher might well assign to each of several class members to be prepared with one story concerning the prophetic utterances of Joseph Smith. Let the year's work end on this note: At this, the end of a year's study concerning the early history of the coming forth of the Church, how more deeply are you ready "to know that Joseph Smith is a Prophet of God"? Visiting Teaching Messages Sources of Strength?The Beatitudes * Lesson 8?Blessed Are They Which Are Persecuted for Righteousness' Sake Elder Bryant S. Hinckley For Tuesday, May i, 1945 "Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake: for theirs is the kingdom of heaven (Matt $: io). "Blessed are ye, when men shall revile you, and persecute you, and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely, for my sake. Rejoice, and be exceeding glad: for great is your reward in heaven: for so persecuted they the prophets which were before you." (Matt. 5:11-12) Objective: To show that those who courageously stand for righteousness are often the victims of persecution, but such persecution is often the pathway to spiritual growth and those who stand firm under such persecution are heirs to the kingdom of heaven. Literature New Testament Lesson 8?Revelation of John the Divine (A Rhapsody of the Millenium) Dr. Howard R. Driggs For Tuesday, May 15, 1945 ISAIAH in the Rhapsody of Zion Redeemed," visions with ecstatic hope the coming of the Messiah. This prophetic masterpiece, created when Israel was in travail, brought promise of relief and redemption through a Savior of mankind. John, the beloved disciple, banished to the lonely Isle of Patmos, was given, by the risen Christ, a vision of the millenium. Like Isaiah, he portrayed in rhapsody, what his exalted soul saw and felt. Only through such a blend of lofty types of literature, could he rise to the majesty of the theme.
Rhapsodic writings were in the mode of those days with Hebrews and early Christians. To impress burning messages of truth, or visions, those of prophetic spirit would sometimes fuse drama, lyrics, odes, oratory, and other forms of literature into a unified expression of their theme. The result was what Dr. Moulton has aptly called a rhapsody.
In the study of this type of Hebraic literature, one should remember that it is a central theme the author would impress. One must first get the spirit and meaning of the whole. This gained, it will be easier to understand the parts, so far as they will yield to our finite understanding.
It is hardly possible that all, or any of us, can understand the spiritual significance of every line of Isaiah or Revelation. Nor is it fruitless to be over-analytical of these or other masterful works of literature. As Dean Baliet, in cautioning teachers against such practices, put it, "One cannot get at the meaning of sorrow by making a chemical analysis of a tear." Our leaders have often advised against our delving too much into the mysteries. Let these unfold in the Lord's own good time.
Our part, now, is first to get the major message of the Revelation of John the Divine. A reading of this sacred scripture as a whole, with prayerful heart, will surely bring this to us. Every part of the prophetic book brings out directly or indirectly the living truth that Jesus Christ is the Son of God, the Redeemer and Ruler of the World; and that those who are faithful in living the gospel as he taught and lived it, will partake of the glories with him in the millenium. Necessary limitations of this study permit only an overview of the sacred book, with an inlook into some of its impressive imagery and stirring lines. *Isaiah, chapter 49 to end. The vision opens with John seeing the Savior in power, and receiving his words of council to be passed on to the seven churches of Asia. In essence, it is stern but kindly admonition for them to forsake evil, hold to the truth, and be ardent for righteousness. "Behold," the prologue closes, "I stand at the door, and knock: if any man hear my voice, and open the door, I will come in to him, and will sup with him, and he with me. To him that overcometh will I grant to sit with me in my throne, even as I also overcame, and am set down with my Father in his throne. He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches" (Revelation 3:20-22). An impressionistic vision of heaven follows. "It takes..." says Dr. Moulton, "the form of three symbolic pictures passing one into the other like dissolving views." First, Deity supreme is manifested "on a. Throne surrounded by a rainbow," while all grades of authority and all forms of life move in a ceaseless round of adoration. Then a book sealed with seven seals becomes visible in the hand of enthroned Deity" (Modern Reader's Bible, page 1708). None, it is felt, can unseal the mysterious volume; but a promise comes that the Lion of Judah shall unseal it. Then appears not a lion, but a Lamb: and as the Lamb takes the book, "ten thousand times ten thousand, and thousands of thousands" voice their praise of him in unison saying: Worthy is the Lamb... To receive power, and riches, and wisdom, and strength, and honour, and glory, and blessing. And every creature which is in heaven, and on the earth, and under the earth, and such as are in the sea.,, heard I saying. Blessing and honour, and glory, and power, be unto him that sitteth upon the throne, and unto the Lamb for ever and ever" (Revelation 5:12, 13). After this song of adoration comes the breaking of the seals of the mysterious book. And I saw when the Lamb opened one of the seals; and I heard, as it were the noise of thunder, one of the four beasts saying, Come and see. And I saw, and behold a white horse: he that sat on him had a bow; and a crown was given unto him: and he went forth conquering, and to conquer. And when he had opened the second seal, I heard the second beast say, Come and see. And there went out another horse that was red: and power was given to him that sat thereon to take peace from the earth, and that they should kill one another: and there was given unto him a great sword. And when he had opened the third seal, I heard the third beast say, Come and see. And I beheld, and lo a black horse; and he that sat on him had a pair of balances in his hand. And I heard a voice in the midst of the four beasts say, A measure of wheat for a penny, and three measures of barley for a penny; and see thou hurt not the oil and the wine. And when he had opened the fourth seal, I heard the voice of the fourth beast say. Come and see. And I looked, and behold a pale horse; and his name that sat on him was Death, and Hell followed with him.... (Revelation 6:1-8). These were the four famed horses and horsemen of the Apocalypse signifying. Captivity, War, Famine and Death. How often since the days of this vision of John, have these elements of destruction gone forth to conquer, to fight, to dole out a pittance of food to the starving, to spread death! How tragically applicable is this dramatic picture to our war-torn world today! LESSON DEPARTMENT 121 The fifth seal broken, John "saw under the altar the souls of them that were slain for the word of God, and for the testimony that they held: And they cried with a loud voice, saying, How long, O Lord, holy and true, dost thou not judge and avenge our blood on them that dwell on the earth? And white robes were given unto every one of them; and it was said unto them, that they should rest yet for a little season, until their fellow-servants also and their brethren, that should be killed as they were, should be fulfilled." One can sense here the feeling of John himself in the shadow of death, as he thought back of the martyrs for Christ, and those that yet would suffer death for his gospel. Yet the beloved Apostle looked beyond the clouds and the wrath of God. With the breaking of the sixth seal, comes the opening of destructions upon the world. And while the earth quakes and mountains and islands are moved out of their place, and men, high and low, hide themselves in dens and rocks, John sees the protecting angels holding back the destructive forces until other angels shall place the saving seal on the foreheads of the servants of God. The Revelation continues: These are they which came out of great tribulation, and have washed their robes, and made them white in the blood of the Lamb.... They shall hunger no more, neither thirst any more;.. For the Lamb which is in the midst of the throne shall feed them, and shall lead them unto living fountains of waters: and God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes (Revelation 7:14-17). As these buoyed up hearts of suffering saints of those earlier days. They have brought comfort and courage to the righteous of all time. When the seventh seal of the book was opened, "there was silence in heaven about the space of half an hour." The vision continues: And I saw the seven angels which stood before God; and to them were given seven trumpets. And another angel came and stood at the altar, having a golden censer; and there was given unto him much incense, that he should offer it with the prayers of all saints upon the golden altar which was before the throne. And the smoke of the incense, which came with the prayers of the saints, ascended up before God out of the angel's hand. And the angel took the censer, and filled it with fire of the altar, and cast it into the earth: and there were voices, and thunderings, and lightnings and an earthquake. And the seven angels which had the seven trumpets prepared themselves to sound (Rev. 8:2-6). Another dramatic portrayal follows of the woes that came upon the earth. Hail and fire, a darkening of the sun, smoke from the bottomless pit, locusts, scorpions, earthquakes and other plagues and calamities, spread terror and destruction. And there was war in heaven: Michael and his angels fought against the dragon; and the dragon fought and his angels. And prevailed not; neither was their place found any more in heaven. And the great dragon was cast out, that old serpent called the Devil, and Satan, which deceiveth the whole world: he was cast out into the earth, and his angels were cast out with him. And I heard a loud voice saying in heaven, Now is come salvation, and strength, and the kingdom of our God, and the power of his Christ...." (Rev. 12:7-10). Satan does not cease his wicked work. In form of dragon and beast he reappears to lure men, to make them fear and worship him. He wars on the saints, overcomes them 'and power was given him over all kindreds, and tongues and nations.. ' (Rev. 13:7)?all save those whose names are "written in the book of life." John continues: And I looked, and, lo, a Lamb stood on the Mount Sion, and with him an hundred forty and four thousand, having his Father's name written in their foreheads. And I heard a voice from heaven, as the voice of many waters, and as the voice of a great thunder: and I heard the voice of harpers harping with their harps: And they sung as it were a new song before the throne, and before the four beasts, and the elders: and no man could learn that song but the hundred and forty and four thousand, which were redeemed from the earth (Revelation 14:1-3). Following these and other lines of exaltation, descriptive of the pure in heart, comes a scriptural passage dear to every Latter-day Saint. And I saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth, and to every nation, and kindred, and tongue, and people. Saying with a loud voice. Fear God, and give glory to him; for the hour of his judgment is come: and worship him that made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and the fountains of waters (Revelations 14:6-7). Following these precious lines, prophetic of the restoration of the gospel of Christ in these latter days, come other oft-quoted words of scripture. Blessed are the dead which die in the Lord from henceforth: Yea, saith the Spirit, that they may rest from their labours; and their works do follow them (Revelations 14:13). Thrust in thy sickle, and reap: for the time is come for thee to reap; for the harvest of the earth is ripe (Revelation 14:15). After this is the vision John saw of the pouring out of the 'Vials of the wrath of God upon the earth." Destruction is meted to those who "have shed the blood of saints and prophets," those who have "blasphemed the name of God," and upon others steeped in sin. "Babylon The Great, The Mother Oi Harlots and Abominations Of The Earth" feels the fierceness of God's wrath: In flaming words (chapter 18), her fall is depicted: And they cast dust on their heads, and cried, weeping and wailing,... For in one hour is she made desolate. Rejoice over her, thou heaven, and ye holy apostles and prophets; for God hath avenged you on her" (Rev. 18:19-20). In the light of terrible happenings today, it is not too difficult to visualize what John saw in vision nearly two thousand years ago. Triumph of righteousness follows destruction. Satan is bound. The millenium is ushered in. A new Jerusalem is portrayed in all its splendor? scorning down from God out of heaven." Christ reigns as "King Of Kings And Lord Of Lords." Truly, in the Revelation of John the Divine, we have one of the four master Books of the Bible. From a literary viewpoint, it rises to the great heights of Deuteronomy, Job, and Isaiah. Milton, whose living spring of inspiration was the Bible, said of Revelation It is a majestic image of high and stately tragedy, shutting up and intermingling her solemn scenes and acts with a sevenfold chorus of hallelujahs and harping symphonies. LESSON DEPARTMENT 123 Ample illustrations of the appeal of its soul-stirring lines and its wondrous imagery, may be found in poetry, music, drama. Observe, for example, how John's portrayal of the New Jerusalem inspired this beautiful analogy in Longfellow's "Courtship of Miles Standish": Slowly as out of the heavens with apocalyptical splendors, Sank the City of God in the vision of John the Apostle, So, with its cloudy walls of chrysolite, jasper and sapphire, Sank the broad red sun and over its turrets uplifted, Glimmered the golden reed of the angel who measured the city. ?(See Revelations 211 In its universal sweep, its emotional depth and height, the Rhapsody of the Millenium is majestic literature. More than this, it is saving scripture. Lifting lines, such as, "Be thou faithful unto death, and I will give thee the crown of life," offer sustaining strength and comfort for the faithful. They hold hope for those who, despite unearned suffering and testing tragedy, keep their trust in God and their feet in the path of righteousness. Suggestions for Discussion and Activities 1. What, in brief, is the central theme of the Revelation of John the Divine? 2. Sketch the main parts in the development of the sacred theme. Give here just a brief line suggesting each; as, (a) Prologue: Message of Christ to the Seven Churches; (b) The Sealed Book of the Lamb. 3. Be prepared to read aloud one of these scenes from Revelation: (a) "Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse" (chap. 6:1-7); "Adoration of the Saints" (chap. 7:9-15); "Seventh Angel Sounds his Trumpet" (chap. 11:15-19); "Michael and the Dragon" (chap. 12:7-12); "Announcement of the Everlasting Gospel" (chap. 14:6-7); "Fall of Babylon" (chap. 18); "Praise of the Saints for God" (chap. 19:5-10); "The New Jerusalem" (chap. 21:1-8). 4. Procure the song "The Holy City" and read its lines; or better, have it sung. What inspired this song? 5. Be ready to give from Revelation some other musical lines that are woven into one of our hymns; or some other quotation from the Book that has brought uplift to you. Note: Use King James' translation as the basic text for this study of Revelation. Social Science Modern Applications of Ethical Principles Lesson 7?Brotherhood, the Key to Greatness Dr. Harold T. Christensen For Tuesday, May 22, 1945 Lesson Link. Character, through honest living, was the substance of our discussion one month ago. It was shown that the assimilation of facts alone does not produce virtue. Parents and others too frequently neglect responsibility in the moral training of youth, and people, generally, are* too prone to deceive by substituting reputation for character. Honesty is the core of character, and it is Unfortunate that so many disintegrate at the core while they struggle desperately to maintain a gloss on the surface. Lesson aim. To show that greatness is dependent upon bigness of soul; that virtue in its highest sense requires the submergence of self to the welfare of others. IT has been said earlier that happiness is contingent upon love and service as well as upon personal health and progression. The application of truth to ourselves, and the devotion of ourselves to truth, are both prerequisite to real joy and the good life. But if we stop with ourselves alone, we stop far short of the goal, for man is a social being and, try as he may, man cannot become happy or great all by himself. As someone has said, "Joy is a partnership, grief weeps alone." Happiness and selfishness are simply incompatible terms.
Man has come a long way in his quest for knowledge and power applied to personal aggrandizement. It is time now that he learn how to love, give, and help for the benefit of others.
The Social Sense
Love of neighbor is second only in importance on the scale of moral values to love of God and the principles of truth and righteousness he exemplified (See Matthew 22: 35-40). Not only is it impossible for man to be saved in ignorance, but it is impossible for him to be saved alone and in hate, as well. A sense of interest and responsibility in humanity about us, coupled with a willingness to consider ourselves secondary to the general welfare of all mankind, is essential to the highest good.
Jesus recognized this moral principle when he said, "Whosoever will come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross, and follow me. For whosoever will save his life shall lose it; but whosoever shall lose his life for my sake and the gospel's, the same shall save it" (Mark 8:34-35). When one selfishly or hatefully strives for self-benefit at the expense of others, he loses out on the better things of life, on satisfactions that can come only from self-denial, love, and service.
But this sense of social justice for world welfare is frequently never realized in the thinking and living of people. Covetousness, too, often crowds out generosity; vanity and egotism push aside humility and meekness; sympathy gives way to suspicion and slander; and love is outdone by hate. In their wild scramble for happiness, people too often center on themselves alone, and in so doing they lose the very thing that they seek.
Smallness of character is a vice that feeds upon egotism and self-interest. Some people are small because they take themselves too seriously, they lack a sense of humor, they see themselves in distorted and inflated perspective. Others are small because they are unfriendly, inhospitable, inconsiderate; more concerned with personal advantage than with equality or justice, and straws willing to lie, steal, cheat, or hoard at the expense of the public. Still others are small because of the prejudices and hates they allow to operate. LESSON DEPARTMENT 125  Small people are parasites and leeches draining the life blood of humanity. Instead of contributing to society they take from it; instead of building it up they drag it down. Petty jealousy, malicious gossip, and trivial bickerings are characteristic of people like this? and the world is too full of their kind. Greatness is a quality of character derived from a sense of brotherhood, and its marks are those of sacrifice, charity, gratitude, loyalty, and the like. Gratitude in Place 01 Greed There is nothing that betrays the true character of a person any more than acts of ingratitude. Sometimes these acts grow out of selfish interests and the spirit of greed, and sometimes out of hate and the desire for revenge; but always in the unthankful heart there is an absence of love and social responsibility. The attitude of gratitude is one of the first steps in achieving greatness of soul. But we are at times prone to hide our feelings of friendliness and appreciation even when we have them, and that is bad. Why keep our hearts in cold storage? Expressions of gratitude and kindly acts toward those around us in appreciation for all they mean to us are small pay for the innumerable and continuous favors each receives from others. Furthermore, through such cheerfulness and helpfulness the soul of the giver is lifted up along with the souls of receivers, and in this way the world is made better and happier. We should speak a heartfelt thanks, write a letter of appreciation, perform an act of gratitude, whenever and wherever the opportunity permits. Every day should be a thanksgiving day. But gratitude to be helpful must be genuine. There is an unfortunate tendency in this modern day to standardize and commercialize sentimental expressions to the extent that they become artificial, superficial, and hollow. Too often we say things that others have composed, buy gifts that others have made, and give gifts out of habit or because we feel that we are expected to. Money interests through advertising have capitalized upon the sentiments of man until now Christmas, Thanksgiving, Mother's Day, birthdays, anniversaries, and other holidays have become festive occasions with great displays of gifts, but too little genuine appreciation springing from the soul. This is a perversion of sentiment and there is need for a return to the original, undiluted, and unpolluted. Gratitude is a virtue, but it requires neither the spending of money nor elaborate demonstration, and it is best when it is spontaneous, natural, and sincere. Tolerance Without Indifference Brotherhood implies the willingness and the ability to co-operate with others even when it is distasteful to do so. We don't need to tolerate wrong and evil, but we can be kindly and helpful to those who are in sin; we don't need to let go our convictions, but we can examine them in light of all the evidence, and we can suspend judgment until all the facts are known. Intolerance grows out of ignorance, falsehood, and prejudice; and it is unethical, unchristian, and un-American. But tolerance, of course, means neither indifference nor acceptance. Without conviction, tolerance may lead to instability and the perpetuation of wrong. On the other hand, though, conviction without tolerance may mean narrow dogmatism and blind bigotry. What we really need is a combination of the two; tolerance should be strengthened with conviction, and conviction should be open-minded and accompanied by mercy and charity for all. Unity does not require uniformity; we can have diversity and still work together co-operatively for the welfare of all humanity. If we can't agree, then we can agree good-naturedly to disagree, and go on living together in the spirit of tolerant participation. It is better that judgment be left to a power higher than mortal man. Failure to do this means intolerance, which often results in fundamental and far reaching injustice. Gossip is unkind; hate is vicious. It is our place to forgive; only God's place to judge. Tolerance is one of the most important and, yet, most lacking virtues in the scale of moral values. Benevolence Beyond Justice While brotherhood is based upon the concepts of equality and justice, it goes far beyond the bare requirements of these principles. It is born of the spirit of love, and leads to unselfishness, altruism, and generosity. It is not enough to be tolerant in a negative sense, we should be actively doing good in a positive sense; it is not enough to "live and let live," we should live and help live. If man is -really impregnated with the spirit of brotherhood, his benevolence will reach far beyond retribution and justice alone; love and mercy will cause him to be generous beyond all specifications of law?and in this he will be really great. Nobility Through Sacrifice But the test of true greatness lies in one's willingness to deprive himself that others may benefit. Being tolerant of those around us, showing gratitude for their friendship and help, and even rendering service beyond bare requirements of justice, are all relatively easy where there is no particular sacrifice or inconvenience involved. It is through self-denial and sacrifice, however, that the greatest love is demonstrated and the greatest good accomplished. Nobility of character is a thing to be achieved through love, service, and sacrifice. The life of Christ furnishes an excellent example of nobility through sacrifice. He died that others might live, and in so doing he proved his greatness. Coming out of World War II, as has been true of all wars, are accounts of personal bravery and self-sacrifice beyond the call of duty. One of these accounts relates the experiences of a group of soldiers who had willingly and without complaint become "expendable" in the interests of their country.? Such unselfish heroism (and this is but one of a great many examples that could be cited) should make the hearts of everyone, regardless of country or creed, feel proud, for it demonstrates how noble and great man is capable of becoming. (See William L. White, They Were Expendable, New York City, Harcourt, Brace and Co., 1942). LESSON DEPARTMENT 127 The world is made better by such sacrifice. But the sad thing is that man so seldom rises above the petty, selfish, and commonplace activities of life. It is an unfortunate reflection upon humanity that it takes a war to make people really noble, and that, even then it is the battle front, not the home front, where true greatness is so often found. Why is there so much narrowness, cheapness, and smallness in the world today! Why are so many ignoble! Why are so few really great! Because selfishness, distrust, and hate are let loose, and world brotherhood remains largely an ideal not yet reached. If men are to be really great they must be willing to make themselves "expendable," just as did Christ, and just as have many others in times of crisis. Consecration to an ideal; allegiance to a principle; loyalty to the right and to those who stand for the right; and, what is more, a willingness to sacrifice all, even life itself if necessary, for decency and justice?these things are important if man is to climb and if Christianity and civilization are to survive. Men should be more humble, teachable, and charitable; they should be less willing to misrepresent facts and exploit persons, and more willing to appreciate and accommodate others; they should have more brotherly love and be more noble in expressing it. When we sing "Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men" (Luke 2:14), let us remember that the glory of God is best realized through peace, and that peace can only come by the development of "good will toward men." Brotherhood is a prerequisite to the greatest good in the universe and is therefore the key to greatness in personality. Problems for Thought and Action 1. Why are happiness and selfishness incompatible terms? Illustrate with examples. Why is it impossible for man to find either salvation or happiness all by himself? What did Jesus mean when he said that those who would try to save their lives would lose them, and vice versa? How does this apply to brotherhood? What do we mean by the "social sense"? Show how it is defeated by egotism; by selfishness; by prejudice and hate; by jealousy; by gossip; by petty bickering. Discuss each of these in turn, pointing out relationships to brotherhood and morality. What is a social parasite? 2. Why is ingratitude wrong? Is it necessary to speak words of appreciation when your actions already demonstrate that you are thankful? Which is the best expression of gratitude, words or actions? Show how gratitude expression is sometimes perverted. What do we mean by the commercialization of sentiment? Discuss. How can the expression of feelings on holidays and at other times be made more genuine and meaningful? Discuss. 3. Define tolerance. Does it require indifference on an issue or acceptance of another point of view? Give reasons for your answer. Define prejudice. What are the major reasons for the existence of prejudices and intolerance? Why. Should we suspend judgment of others and be anxious to forgive them of their mistakes. Does this condone sin? Is there a danger in being too forgiving? Discuss. 4. What is "benevolence beyond justice"? Why is the philosophy of "live and help live" of a higher order than "live and let live"? 5. What is nobility of character, and how is it achieved? Illustrate with the life and the teachings of Christ. What does it mean to be expendable? Was Christ expendable? Why is this a quality of greatness? Explain why there is so much cheapness and smallness in the world today. What is the result in society at large? In the character of people? Why is brotherhood the key to greatness? Selected References Milton Bennion, Moral Teachings of the New Testament, Deseret Book Co., 1928, pp. 36-38; 57-66; 95-118; 153-162. (Out of print) William L. Stidger, "Must You Keep Your Heart' in Cold Storage?" Reader's Digest, November 1942, pp. 107-8. Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, compiled by Joseph Fielding Smith, p. 228. President John Taylor, The Gospel Kingdom, pp. 63, 199, 341. Book of Mormon, III Nephi 12:43-48. Doctrine and Covenants, 38:24-25; 59:6; 88:123. Matt. 20:26-28. John 15:13. Repairs An Amateur Can Make (Continued from page 112) broken furniture be sure to remove all the old glue first by scrubbing with hot water. Dry thoroughly. Heat the new glue and apply while hot. The broken part will then have to be held firmly in place for at least forty-eight hours. Painting, upholstering, refinishing furniture, and making slip covers are all jobs that women and girls enjoy doing. Such repairs do much to keep up home morale. References America's Housekeeping Book, section 9' PP- 517-558. "Be Your Own Handy Man," The American Home, vol. 29, p. 36, January 1943 "Everywomans' Primer of Home Repairs" House and Garden, vol. 83, p. 35, March 1943. "Slip Covers for Furniture" 1873F (send to Office of Information, U. S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C., listed as free). Or it may be purchased from the Superintendent of Documents, Washington, D. C., for ten cents. (Do not send stamps.) Your Part In Utah's Centennial - (Continued from page 71) neat and attractive condition the vacant lots, unsightly buildings, and refuse rendezvous which now deface so many communities. Through such concerted, community action, the Utah virtue of co-operation can be applied to establish and encourage individual and community habits of neatness, cleanliness, and industry. Utah people, who hope to be hosts to the world in 1947, whether our guests come in person or meet us on the motion picture screen or through the medium of the radio, will gain nothing but shame, if the attention we attract to our State is diverted to evidences of slothfulness. It, therefore, behooves all of us who are proud of our heritage to bestir ourselves at once and work to make our part in the beautification of our fair State worthy of the standards which nature and our ancestors have so generously set. MUSIC 0 We carry large stocks of music suitable for churches, schools and home use, arranged for vocal and instrumental solos, choirs, bands and orchestras. We specialize in L. D. S. Church music. Write to us for suggestions and material available. Dealers in Steinway and Lester pianos, band and orchestra instruments, talking machines, records and musicians' supplies.