LAST NIGHT THEY PLAYED HIS SONGS
Anna Prince Redd
He left? Without saying goodbye? Just, "Hey, Mom!" as he pedaled away? His little-boy voice, consumed by space, Eludes my heart,
No sound comes back to me. Aeons ago he left? Without saying goodbye? But that melody, all his songs? And he sat close to me. Work Meeting COMBINATION APRON AND SEWING BAG ANY woman who sews, darns, mends, or does fine needlework, crocheting or knitting will appreciate an apron with pockets to hold her thimble, scissors, and tape measure, and keep her sewing clean, too. This combination apron and utility bag* is very convenient and practical. Materials required?1 1/6 yds. Fabric, preferably heavy, washable print or solid color, "Yi yards cord or ribbon for draw string and to tie envelope accessory holder, bias binding, two wooden rings, beads or buttons. To make?Cut two pieces of material 16 3/4 inches by 22 inches for bag (A) (Illus. 1). Seam the bottom and sides. Turn down 1 3/4 inches at top for hem. Stitch hem, then stitch 3/4 inch from edge of hem to make a Ya inch casing to enclose draw string. Leave seam on outside of casing open for draw string. Cut one piece 10 1/2 inches long by 22 1/2 inches wide for apron part (B) (Illus. 2). Make 1/4 inch hem on each side. Sew lower edge to inside of back of bag, stitching Y inch below (C) hem stitching. Make a second stitching over hem stitching (E) and through apron to hold apron in place and to cover raw seam. Make pocket (D) 4 1/2 inches by 13 1/2 inches finished with 3/4 inch hem at top. Stitch to back of bag and over lower edge of apron, allowing top of pocket to come to stitching (E). A small, envelope-style folder may be made (Illus. 4), the pocket to hold small scissors, skeins of floss, buttons, thimble, etc., the strip of outing flannel to hold needle and pins. When the apron is pinned and C and tied with ribbon or cord attached at point H, a very compact sewing equipment case results (Illus. 5). This may be kept in small pocket in apron. Band for top of apron and tie strings may be cut from remaining material. When one stops sewing, the apron top may be folded down into the bag, the draw strings pulled, and presto, one has a utility bag to hang on one's arm to take places, or to hang by the draw string in a convenient place ready for future use. Further suggestions on aprons will appear in the March issue of the Magazine. *This apron design was originated by Ruth T. Oscarson, first counselor in charge of sewing, Granite Stake Relief Society Board, Salt Lake City, Utah. ILLUS. APRON BAG Inside View-Front of Bag Removed APRON BAG Shown as Bag SEWING EQUIPMENT CASE ILLUS. 5 Se | SEWING EQUIPMENT CASE Folded Page 96