The Bureau Vesta Pierce Crawford VESTA PIERCE CRAWFORD YOU remember your Grandma Watts, don't you? Bertha Carlson, she was, before she married me. You remember when she died, but that was a long time ago and you were living in California. I suppose Bertha was very much like other women, only better. But when we were young I thought there was one particular thing about her that was peculiar. She set her heart on a piece of furniture. Page 72 I remember the first time Bertha mentioned wanting a bureau. We called them bureaus then, although I hear your wife referring to them as chests of drawers. We needed bureaus badly because the houses had no built-in cabinets. We had just moved into our first home one room. There sat Bertha on the floor with a heap of bundles around her, all her wedding finery. She held some lacey things in her pretty hands and she looked at me with coaxing blue eyes.  John,  she said,  I do wish I had a bureau.  I bent down and put my arms around her and kissed her auburn hair, and I said, "Don't you worry, Bertha. I'm the one that's going to get you a bureau and everything else you want." I didn't know then what I've learned since or I wouldn't have made promises. I never would have made promises. It takes a long time to learn things, and sometimes you don't learn until it is too late. Bertha must have thought of that bureau a lot after she first mentioned it. Just before our first baby came she asked about it again. She had all the clothes about done, stacks of them, but where she got the cloth from I don't know, for I wasn't making much. Dry farming, you know depends on the weather. You don't have a regular income. So, as I said before, I don't know where Bertha got the cloth for the baby clothes. Maybe her folks gave her some or she might have cut up some of her wedding things.
I can't forget that evening. It was November and the wind rattled the door. Bertha was sitting by the kitchen range with her crochet hook flying, and there, piled on the table were the baby things. She said she felt pretty good and she laid down the crocheting and started to fix my supper. She began to move the things off the table. Then she stopped and said, "John, dear, I do wish I had a bureau. It would be nice if I had some drawers to put these things in."
I put my arm on her shoulder and I asked, "How much do they cost?"
"Maybe fifteen dollars," she said, "or twenty-five for a big solid-oak one."
But I didn't have a five in my pocket.
The next day I went to the store and got a big empty dry-goods box, and together we lined it with cloth and put the baby clothes in it, and Bertha seemed contented.
Queer about women, though. She had her heart set on the bureau. Never asked for much else, and I made up my mind I'd get the bureau for her as soon as ever I could. That wasn't easy to do, for we always needed something else worse a new cook stove, a carpet, some tools or machinery. Then we had to build on to the house and make it larger, as you see it now, with this fancy porch and the bedrooms and all. We had five children and we needed the extra rooms.
When I saw Bertha getting old and frail looking, I was worried. She never mentioned the bureau any more. I did manage to buy some furniture, a sofa, and a leather chair, and a desk for the parlor. We got along and we tried to be kind to each other. But even when I was alone, her voice seemed to be ringing in my ears. This was strange, for Bertha was a quiet woman by nature and she was never one to nag about anything. Once when I was sitting at sundown on a ledge above the river a light wind was blowing. Then, all at once, I thought I could see Bertha coming up the cliff, and I thought I heard her say, "John, I do need a bureau."
I was terribly ashamed of myself and I made up my mind to get the bureau at once. Our youngest daughter, Emily, was going to get married. Her mother kept sewing and sewing, and there were patterns and goods and thread scattered all about and stacks of new things around. One afternoon I came in early from the field, and there sat Bertha at the sewing machine, treadling fast. She stopped suddenly and looked up at me. In a minute tears were streaming down her face. She turned away and treadled again. Emily went over and touched Bertha's gray hair and asked, "What's the matter, Mother?"
I knew what it was. She wanted that bureau so that Emily's wedding things could be put away and kept in good shape until she was ready for them.
This time I was surely going to get the bureau. I told Emily my plans. I was going to surprise her mother by bringing home a bureau. On the way to town I met Bart Sanders. He asked me if I wanted to buy his mowing machine. He was moving away and the machine was a good buy. I needed it the worst kind for my own mower was broken down, and was always at the blacksmith shop just when I needed it most. A good machine would be an investment. I told Bart I would take it and pay cash down. I hated to do it, but I thought that sometime later I could buy a better bureau for Bertha and she would be that much more pleased. She could afford to wait a while longer since she wasn't expecting the bureau anyway. I went home with the mowing machine and showed it to Bertha and Emily, but I didn't say anything about having intended to spend the money in another way. SIX months later our Emily got married. Bertha and I were alone in the house. Alone. I tell you I never heard so much silence. Then one night after supper when I was sitting at one side of the table and Bertha across from me, she said quietly,  You didn't get it, did you?" I shifted around in the chair. "Get what. Bertha?" Her voice was level. The bureau. Emily told me you were going to get a bureau to keep her wedding things in. I believed you really would. But it doesn't matter any more. Now the children have come and gone there isn't anything left to use a bureau for." Her face was gray and she didn't say anything more. After a while she went into the bedroom and closed the door quietly. I don't remember how long I sat at the table. She wouldn't need a bureau now, she had said, but a woman can always use a bureau. Five years after Emily was married the lucern seed crop was good. I had some extra money in my pocket. I hitched up and drove the wagon fifteen miles over to Mayfield and tied up at the Emporium. They had lots of bureaus, big high solid-oak ones, and wider ones made of white maple, and polished walnut bureaus with six drawers. Then all at once I saw the one 1 wanted. It was a beauty. Painted green, and over that, for trimming, big pink roses. It had golden looking handles and carved legs with shining casters. I bought it. Fifty dollars, but it was worth twice that. I loaded it on the wagon, covered it with an old quilt, and drove home. I remember, yet, how anxious I was to get there. Bertha had gone out somewhere. I set the bureau by the bed in our room and then I went into the kitchen to wait. What would she say? What would she think of the green paint and the pink roses? It was fall, and when Bertha came in she was wearing her coat, a gray coat buttoned up tight. "Well, John," she said, "when did you get home?" "Just now." "Where have you been?" "Nowhere." She took off her coat and started for the bedroom. I held my breath. She stood in the doorway. She kept standing there.   "Bertha," I said, "don't you like it?" Finally she turned around. Her face was as gray as ashes and she was THE BUREAU 75 " trembling. She tried to smile and I had a queer idea that she was trying to make the years drop off I had queer idea that she was trying to make the years drop off her. She walked toward me slowly and put her hand on my shoulder.  John,  she said,  You got the burequ after all.  But she didn t put a thing in the drawers. Time after time I looked, but there was never the least trinket put in the bureau. One day I asked,  Bertha, don t you like the bureau?  You didn t look at me  Sure,  she said,  I like it fine. It s the handsomest bureau I ever saw.  But I wasn t satisfied and I wasn t pleased with myself. I went to the window and watched the rain beating down and there was no comfort in it. The room was too quiet. I knew it would always quiet.