[Vol4 | July 1917 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Article | Title: President Joseph F. Smith on Card Playing]

President Joseph F. Smith in our last Conference: "the spirit which the latter-day saints should manifest IN WAR. "Speaking of the possibility of conflict, of war, I exhort my friends, the people of our country, especially in this intermountain region, to maintain above all other things the spirit of humanity, of love, and of peace-making, that even though they may be called into action they will not demolish, override and destroy the principles which we believe in, which we have tried to inculcate, and which we are exhorted to maintain; peace and good will toward all mankind, though we may be brought into action with the enlist, academy. I want to the say country whose services to the may Latter-day require, Saints who they that when may become soldiers of the State and of the Nation that they will not forget that they are also soldiers of the Cross, that they are ministers of life and not of death; and when they go forth, they may go forth in the spirit of defending the liberties of mankind rather than for the purpose of destroying the enemy. If we could convert them to peaceful ways and to the love of peace without destroying them, we would become saviors of men. And it is abominable that men who engage in the great and grand and necessary duty of protecting and guarding our Nation from the encroachments of wicked enemies, cruel and destructive foes, should not maintain among themselves lives of honor, virtue, purity and of immunity from sin and crime of every kind. It is a disgraceful thought that a man to become a soldier should become a rake and abandon himself to crime and wickedness. Let 36+ RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. the soldiers that go out from Utah be and remain men of honor. And when they are called obey the call, and manfully meet the duty, the dangers, or the labor, that may he required of them, or that they may he set to do; hut to do it with an eye single to the accomplishment of the good that is aimed to be accomplished, and not with the blood-thirsty desire to kill and destroy." If our sons are called to go to the front, it is in this spirit that we want them to accept the call, and we shall remain at home in faith and with courage that they shall be preserved in life or in death in the faith of the gospel." 'We urgently advise all our sisters to keep the even tenor of their ways, making homes clean, comfortable and peaceful; administer in the spirit of love and patience to your husbands and to your children; guard the little ones; do not permit them to imbibe the spirit of intolerance or hatred to any nation or to any people; keep firearms out of their hands; do not allow them to play at war nor to find amusement in imitating death in battle; inculcate the spirit of loyalty to country and flag, but help them to feel that they are soldiers of the Cross and that if they must needs take up arms in the defense of liberty, of country and homes they shall do so without rancor or bitterness. Avoid all discussions of a political and war-time nature in your meetings and in the homes. Instruct teachers not to enter into discussions concerning the war, especially in homes where naturalized foreigners live. Teach the peaceable things of the kingdom. Keep cool; cultivate the spirit of calmness, love and peace. Do not lose your head, for a distracted person has neither sense nor sanity. Look after the needy more diligently than ever. In these times of raised prices and inflated food values we fear that there are those who may suffer in silence for want of a helping hand. Your duty lies first to these in your locality. Remember the aged and care for the orphans and widows. So long have the women of this Society been trained in the kindly virtues of generosity and noble charity that we have little fear concerning your attitude in this crisis. Our only fear is least some of our more generous members allow themselves to become over-zealous and over-enthusiastic, thus wasting strength, time and means. Many questions come to us concerning our attitude towards national and local patriotic organizations.  results will prove to the headquarters in Washington, as well as to our own members, the wisdom of this choice. Mrs. Janette A. Hyde has also been chosen by the Governor to act upon the Utah State Food Conservation Committee. This action permits the wider scope of our associations with the Agricultural College at Logan and with the food question generally throughout the State. Our Committee have all plans matured for demonstrations in canning and drying vegetables and fruits, to be held in every stake during the summer season. In all our labors, however, we desire to keep closely together, under the banner of the Relief Society, not diverting our resources or scattering our energies by joining with this and that movement and organization. There is plenty of scope and opportunity for every gift, talent, and effort of the women of this people in the Relief Society, and we would always invite your loyal devotion to the interests and objects of this great organization. OUR MISSION IS TO HELP THE OPPRESSED AND NEEDY. Prest. Smith said further: "Charity, or love, is the greatest principle in existence. If we can lend a "helping hand to the oppressed, if we can aid those who are despondent and in sorrow, if we can uplift and ameliorate 
 the condition of mankind, it is our mission to do it. it is an essential part of our religion to do it. And I say to our friends present that we have an organization in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints that is perfect in its operation, by which we may call today to almost the whole Church, for aid, and tomorrow we will receive returns with the generous contributions that are freely given for a good cause, and it will cost nobody a cent. Every dime contributed for the benefit of the poor goes to the poor, and is not consumed by charitable organizations, who collect and handle means intended for the poor, and are paid for their services, thus absorbing a large percentage of the means contributed for the benefit of the poor, by those who are not poor. I wish to announce that to our friends. The Latter-day Saints know this, they understand it. They have recollection of recent events in which, within twenty-four hours or thereabouts, the people of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints contributed somewhere near $35,OCO. and it was sent to the afflicted people of Europe that were suffering; in consequence of war. and it was put into hands who would distribute it wisely to those who needed, without cost to anybody; and a portion of that fund, which was not distributed, remains to be dealt out to those who are really in need as their circumstances require." We close this epistle with another extract from the inspired discourse of President Smith, at our last Conference. Let this be our watchword and let these sentiments animate every woman in the Relief Society: "We admonish, we beseech our brothers and s:sters in the gospel of Jesus Christ, not only to honor themselves by a proper course of living, but also to honor and love and be charitable to your neighbors, every one of you. We admonish you not only to keep the greatest of all the commandments that has ever been given of God to man, to love the Lord your God, with all your heart and mind and strength, but we exhort you also to observe that second law. next unto it. to love your neighbors as yourselves; return good for evil, do not revile others because you are or may be reviled. We have no need to tear down the houses of other people (using this expression as a symbol). We are perfectly willing that they should live in the homes they have erected for themselves, and we will try to show them a better way. While we will not condemn that which they love and cherish above all other things in the world, we will endeavor to show them a better way and build them a better home and then invite them kindly, in the spirit of Christ, of true Christianity, to enter the better dwelling. That is the principle, and T wish to impress it upon you." Emmeline P. Wells, President, Clarissa S. Williams, 1st counselor, Julina L.