[Vol4 | July 1917 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Mother Entertains Diantha Parrish]

Mother Entertains By Diana Parrish. Isobel read in a flutter the letter which mother handed to her. "Wellington, New Zealand, July 3rd, 1915. "My Dear Mrs. Hartley:  Your friend Mrs. Wilson, whom I had the honor of meeting recently, has kindly given me your address. She assures me that you will not think it too great burden to show me about your city when I visit the United States. I am looking forward to my visit in your quaint city and trust that my presumption in asking to meet you and your family will not in any way discommode you. T expect to arrive there on the morning of August 1st. "Faithfully yours, "Edmund Benton, Bart." "Think of receiving a letter from a real baronet and in his own handwriting!" burst from the girl as she finished. "And look at the coat of arms embossed in colors. How lovely. 'Facta Non Verba.' I've forgotten all my Latin, but I believe it means 'Deeds, Not Words.' Isn't it wonderful, mother? We're going to entertain nobility." Mother smiled at her daughter's excitability and at the recollection of her own romantic ideas in her younger days. "My dear child, do you realize that we must have Sir Edmund for dinner? My chief worry at the present moment is that he arrives on the first of August, the worst of the 'dog days.' What in the world can we have that will be nice and cool?" Isobel looked up sharply from her close scrutiny of the baronet's letter. "Mother! You don't mean  you don't mean to may you are going to serve a cold dinner! Why, everybody knows that the proper English dinner always includes soup, prime roast beef with Yorkshire pudding, with plum pudding as the dessert. Mother paused. This difficulty had flashed through her own mind. "Our customs are not English, Isobel," said mother, finally, "I have decided that we will serve our usual dinner and put on no frills or fine feathers which would prove unbecoming. We don't want to be caught like jays with borrowed plumage." "Very well, if you feel that way about it. After all, it's your dinner. But I'd do it differently for a baronet  it's the MOTHER ENTERTAINS. 381 chance of a life-time, and our ways are so awfully plain compared to things they are used to." "Can't you and Tom come around this evening? We'll talk it over then." "Yes, we can come. We'll be over early." Isobel rose and started home, brightening at the thought that perhaps she could persuade her mother to change her decision and give a dinner worthy of the occasion. Evening found the Hartley household seated around the mund. table earnestly discussing the entertainment of Sir Ed library "We'll have to say 'cawn't' and 'shawn't' won't we. mother? There's an English girl in my class at school and she always pronounces that way. She says that it isn't proper to speak with a yankee twang." Viola gravely made this important comment. While doing so. however, she could not resist the temptation of watching herself in the mirror and fluffing up her hair. "Oh. yes. and Beatrice must wear her hair down in curls with a big bow of ribbon at the back. A lot of English girls wear their hair down until they are seventeen. I've seen pictures of them." volunteered Mignon, eager that no detail likely to add to the glory of the occasion should pass unnoticed. "And we'll have to call mother 'mater' and father 'pater.' T see it that way in a lot of English stories T read." urged Viola. "We'd better begin to practice for there's only five days before his lordship or whatever he is, comes. Pater, you'll have to have your mustache cut short in the middle with Ion? ends and then wax the ends into stiff points like spears. The Sunday paper fashion notes say that's the latest English style for men." "Yes. and get out that gray suit you put away, because it was too tight for you. All the skin-tight clothes the dudes are wearing Bea. about town are called the 'latest English styles'." laughed Eather lost his serene countenance quickly at the mention of his petted moustache. He frowned in recollection of the discarded suit which had proved so irritating to a man whose motto was first and last "solid comfort." "What's this, what's this?" he cried, affecting a fierce growl. "Is my liberty to be interfered with for this Sir Somebody? I'm a plain man used to plain ways and I must not be disturbed." Eather glared in mock ferocity at each member of the family and then resumed his reading. "Let's quit joking and get down to business. What shall we have for dinner? T thought would begin with sliced fruit in place of soup  " Isobel interrupted mother. "Can't T persuade you. mother, to serve a proper English dinner? Look, here's what T would sug- 
 gest. I've written out a menu from an English cook hook I found at the library  I just hod to run down there and hunt for something after I left you. for we do want this dinner to be a grand affair. Think what it means? You, Mr. Hartley, arc going to entertain Sir Edmund Benton!" The girl thrust the written menu into her mother's hands. Even father put down his paper as mother read: Soup  Mulligatawny h'ish  Fried snapper Entree  Scrambled calves' brains Joint  Prime roast beef with Yorkshire pudding Vegetables  Raked potatoes, cauliflower and French beans  Roast chicken with bread sauce Sweets  Raspberry tart Savory  Grilled sardines Biscuits and cheese  Fruits  Nuts Cafe Noir As mother finished, the family sat aghast. Isobel hastened to explain her plan. "We'll hire a waitress for the day and can easily everything then. Before hand one of the girls must act manage as the waitress and we must all practice being served from the lefthand side. Father must brush up on his carving, and mother must practice serving the vegetables when the maid brings her the plates on which father has put the meat. Sir Edmund will never know but what we do this all the time. To make the thing complete, before dinner, father must ask Sir Edmund if he wishes a whisky and soda and we must have wine for the dinner." Isobel's suggestions of coffee, of whisky and soda and wine came as quite a shock to the Hartleys, even though she assured them that her reference book had declared the liquor necessary. "I think it would make my head swim." confided Viola," and I wouldn't know what I was doing." "Nonsense," argued Isobel; "you can't afford to be a little green-horn all your life. All the society people do it. and I'm sure Sir Edmund will expect it. I dare say he'd be insulted if you offered him water." "The wine wouldn't be so bad because we could mix water with it. like they do in France." Ilea commented. To her romantic young mind the idea of a fashionable dinner such as she read of in the "best -filers" was most fascinating. At last the family was to depart from the simple home dining which she considered most prosaic. They were to wine and dine somewhat after the fashion of royalty. "What do you think, father? Shall we leave aside our MOTHER ENTERTAINS. 383 temperance rules this time in honor of our guest?" asked mother, slowly. "I'll leave the decision to you, mother, since it's in your department, so to speak. I'm quite willing to abide your conclusion. "Mother glanced again over the astonishing menu. Then she spoke. "Well, since it's left to me, T shall decide to stay with our usual ways. We have never used stimulants because we consider them harmful. In my opinion it would be foolish to forsake our principles for fear of being thought queer. We ought to be willing to stay by them in spite of any one, be he prince or pauper. As to the English dinner, that, too, seems to me to be in poor taste, since it is summer, and the foods included are much too hot. You must not be offended, Isobel, because I do not follow your suggestions. You understand my position, don't you, dear?" "It's quite all right, mother. No doubt you know best," replied the daughter huskily. Deep down in her heart, however, she thought her mother was making a great mistake and would suffer the consequent disgrace before the noble and elegant personage of Sir Edmund Benton, Bart. The day of Sir Edmund's arrival "dawned bright and clear" as the story books say. Judging from the red rays of the sun which blazed up behind the mountains at five in the morning, it would indeed be a "dog day." At six o'clock the family was astir. Mother came down stairs and spent an hour watering the flowers while she mentally reviewed her preparations. Father was down half an hour before her, putting the finishing touches to the newly cut lawn and edges which were his pride and joy. Beatrice was bustling about to get a seven o'clock breakfast in order to have the kitchen cleared so that there would be no flurry over the dinner preparations. Mignon was cutting exquisite roses still glowing under their pearls of dew. As she put them in the bowls she indulged in dreams of modern knights and lords who come to America in search of wives, and boldly snatch away lovely American girls, the same acts being heralded as international alliances. The particular knight on whom her mind focused was named "Sir Edmund" and the beautiful American's name was "Mignon." By eleven o'clock the house was in order and the dinner well under way. Bob drove round in his car to take father to the station and Isobel arrived to lay the table. "How many places, mother?" she asked brightly. "Fourteen." Isobel's face doubled in length. "Mother! surely you're not going to have the entire family! It's too many. It looks funny." "You surprise me, my dear," said mother, gently. 
 "But it's such a crowd! The hoys have to work, so why not let them, seven sit down. and don't Then their the wives. That later others come way in only have afternoon and shock. introduce I told them Tom gradually not to come until by one late and it big won't be excites family such a so much comment and especially with a nobleman. It's simply not being done, nowadays, mother, it's simply not being done!" "I won't take offense at what you say, my dear," said mother, after a long pause. "I know you often speak before you think. Lay the table for the entire family, and telephone Tom to be here by one o'clock for dinner." Mother went up-stairs to dress. Vs the time wore on the girls became more and more excited over the coming guest. "What do you think he will be like, Bea?" questioned Viola. "I hardly know, but I imagine he will be tall and slim, with wavy hair and face that looks as if it had been cut in ivory by a master hand." Bea let slip a love-sick sigh. "Yes, I think he will he tall, too," chipped in Mignon, "but he will have rosy checks and black hair and glorious eyes, more like the Irish." She gazed dreamily out the window. "How do you think he will be dressed?" demanded Bea. "A Prince Albert broadcloth suit." urged Isobel. "  satin cut-a-way coat and knee breeches with diamond garters. T saw a picture of one in the Telegraph," interposed Viola breathlessly. "Like Lord Byron, with an open collar to show his beautiful throat." argued Mignon. Fanny and Geraldine appearing at that moment could not quite decide how they thought he would be dressed. "I rather think" "Here he is now," whispered Bea, wildly. All rushed to the window to peek through the curtains. From the machine stepped a man of seventy. He was a trifle more than six feet tall, and to the surprised girls at the curtains appeared to be almost as many feel broad. His red face was covered with a scraggly gray beard above which his merry blue ever loved and twinkled. Instead of the black satin court suit fancied by Bea, he luxuriated in a baggy tweed suit of the most conservative style, which loosely hung to his gigantic frame. A battered felt hat set off his gray hair, which could not even by the wildest Fancy, have been called Byronic lock-. As if to make the picture more grotesque the noble visitor carried in one hand a dusty steamer rug rolled up firmly with great mysterious knobs poking out. knobs which no amount of firm rolling could disguise. In the other hand he clutched a huge, round, tin hat box painted MOTHER ENTERTAINS. 385 yellow, which looked so much like the tin cake box in the pantry that the girls plainly saw C-A-K-E printed across the front in bold letters. Behind Sir Edmund, father, looking astonishingly fashionable, heaved at a big wicker telescope-basket, extended to the last possible notch. Bob struggled smilingly under a brown canvas sea bag stuffed so full that it threatened to burst off the staunch padlock that held the steel rings around the top together. The girls never could remember how they greeted Sir Edmund when mother introduced them. The hour before dinner was always a trifle hazy. To Isobel. however, the sitting down at the table was painfully engraved in her memory. The noble visitor found himself face to face with fourteen, all one family. After grace was said the family began cautiously on the sliced fruit which stood at each place. Isobel fairly held her breath as Sir Edmund tasted his. She was dumbfounded to note that he appeared to eat it with pleasure. She watched his face as the girls brought in the chicken and the vegetables. If he missed his soup, he was too well-bred to show it. And he ate his salad with positive relish. Not only that, but he drank two glasses of water without making a face. As he accepted a second serving of ice cream (quite as if he had never heard of plum pudding) he chatted in a fascinating manner of his work for the British government which carried him to every quarter of the globe. "The after-dinner coffee is the test.'' worried Isobel. "Mother might have given in on that score and saved the dinner." She was miserable as mother and father folded their napkins and their guest, watching them, laid his on the table. Suddenly Sir Edmund spoke again: "Mrs. Hartley, as my hostess, I am going to take the liberty of congratulating you on your dinner, even at the risk of appearing rude. From my point of view it was ideal, for I have been a seeker after health for years and have had to abide by certain rules, none of which have I had to break today in order not to offend my hosts. I could not begin to fill my state responsibilities and social obligations, if I did not live simply. We are bringing up our eight sons in the same way." Mother blushed in happy confusion. "Thank you, Sir Edmund." Isobel wilted into her chair.