[Vol4 | July 1917 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons]

GUIDE LESSONS. 417 from the fire. Turpentine is good for removing grass and paint stains. MENDING. Since materials can be produced so cheap, mending is becoming lost a art. However, no one disputes the utility of mending. A well made garment should not be discarded when a patch neatly put in will prolong its usefulness. Children, especially, should not be allowed to wear garments out of repair for it has a demoralizing influence upon their characters. "A stitch in time saves nine." This is particularly true of knitted materials that frequently come to pieces before you are aware. Darning the thin places before the hole comes through is true economy of time put effort. Net may be helpful in repairing large holes. The size of the thread used in darning should correspond to that of the material. In mending the knees of boys' trousers, set in a piece large enough to be taken into the seams and the patch will not be so noticeable. Bodices worn out under the arm may be best mended by setting in a new underarm piece. To lengthen garments, let down the hem of the skirt and faceit, or apply a false hem or let cut tucks. Facings may be applied to neck and sleeves. RENOVATION OF MILLINERY MATERIALS. Velvet.  Velvet may be freshened and wrinkles removed by steaming. To steam, put a wet cloth over a hot iron and draw the velvet back and forth through the steam, having the wrong side of the velvet next to cloth. Brush with a soft bristle brush to raise the pile. Spots may be removed from velvet and plush by sponging with chloroform (never use in a closed room.) Chloroform will often restore color to faded materials. Felt.  Felt of any color may be cleaned with sandpaper. Cover a small wooden block with No. 00 sandpaper and use the block as a brush. Begin at center top of hat and proceed in a circular direction until the whole hat has been cleaned. Remove the sandpaper, cover the block with velvet and go over the hat as before. The velvet will smooth down the felt. If the velvet block is rubbed on a hot iron and then on a block of paraffin wax it will be still more effective. White felts may be cleaned by rubbing with French chalk, powdered borax, or cornmeal. Natural Colored Straw.  Hats of milan, leghorn, etc., in natural color may be cleaned with a paste of the juice of one lemon and two tablespoonfuls of sulfur. Rub the hat thoroughly with this paste and when dry brush off the powder. 
 White Straw.  White straw hats including panamas may be cleaned with a weak solution of oxalic acid water. Dissolve a tablespoon of oxalic acid in one pint of water. Scrub the hat quickly with the solution using a stiff brush. (Do not put the hands in the acid.) After the hat has been cleaned rinse the acid off by going over the hat with a cloth wet in clear water. Avoid getting the straw too wet as this causes the hat to lose its shape. When nearly dry the hat may be pressed lightly tinder a damp cloth. Prepared cleaners for white straw may be purchased at the drug stores. Panama.  Panamas may also be cleaned by washing in soap and water. Colored Straws.  Colored straws, if not faded, may be freshened by washing with a sponge wet in wood alcohol. This method is very good for black straws. Wood alcohol being poisonous should be kept away from children. To Renew Faded Straw Hats.  Badly faded or soiled shapes can be dyed the same or a darker shade with one of the several reliable hat dyes for sale at drug stores. When carefully applied the hat may be made to look like new. To Stiffen Straw.  Shapes which have lost their stiffness may be stiffened by pressing lightly under a damp cloth. Never press directly on any straw: have a cloth between the straw and the iron. To Change the Shape.  To change the shape of a straw hat dampen the hat and while soft and pliable, bend into desired shape. Catch up brim where desired with strong thread. Leave until dry. To Make a Prim Droop.  Hold the hat up and press a bit of the under brim at a time. The movement should be sideways from the crown outward. Lace.  Silk laces should be dry cleaned or washed in gasoline. Cotton laces can be washed in soap and water. Fill a fruit jar half full of warm soap suds or borax water. Put lace in jar and fasten top securely. Shake well until lace is thoroughly washed. Refill jar with rinse water and rinse by shaking the lace in the jar. Take out the lace and spread it on a Dry cloth pulling the scallops into shape. When dry. the lace may be pressed lightly. Tn washing any kind of lace the main point to remember is to avoid rubbing. Ribbon.  Ribbons may be cleaned by sponging with damp lured alcohol. Good ribbons may be washed in soap and water. Uways press between cloths or paper. Feathers.  White or colored feathers may be washed in a thin paste of gasoline and flour, or gasoline and plaster of paris. To one pint of gasoline and two tablespoons of flour or plaster my paris. Clean the feather by putting it in the paste and rubbing it from the stem to the tips of the flues. Do not rub the flues back GUIDE LESSONS. 419 and forth but move the fingers always in the same direction. When the feather is clean, draw it through the tightly closed hand to squeeze out the gasoline. Shake a few minutes; then finish drying in cornstarch. Spread the cornstarch on a piece of tissue paper and rub the feather lightly in the starch until dry. Shake the starch out and the feather will be found to be clean and fluffy. Washing a White Plume.  When a white or light plume becomes badly soiled it can be washed with soap and water, the disadvantage of this method being that the feather must be recurled. Make a suds of ivory soap and warm water. Let the feather soak in this an hour or two. Then wash by drawing through the hand. When clean rinse the feather first in clear water and then in wood alcohol. After squeezing out the alcohol dry the feather in cornstarch. Recurl, using a silver knife. Black or Dark Colored Feathers.  Black or dark feathers may be cleaned by washing in wood alcohol. Shake the feather until dry. Fur.  Fur may be cleaned by brushing thoroughly with very hot bran. Use a stiff brush. Have the fur stretched firmly to the ironing board. After brushing, shake the fur to remove the bran. This not only cleans the fur but also makes it glossy. Flowers.  Soiled flowers become freshened and stiffened by shaking them over a steaming cloth. Faded flowers can be dipped 1 into a tinting preparation or they can be touched up with a small paint brush and usually look like new. To make the tinting preparation, dissolve oil paint in gasoline. The oil paint can be bought in small tubes in a great variety of colors. Such things as chiffons, thin silks, malines and feathers can also be tinted in gasoline and oil paint. Tinting is different from dyeing, and only light shades can be produced,  red paint tinting pink, etc, Tinting should never be done near a fire or in a closed room. Always test a sample before putting in the article to be colored. A HANDY TABLE. The kitchen table is made very handy by covering the top with zinc. Have that part of the table which extends out from the frame sawed off to within one inch of the frame, then cover with zinc, using small nails to fasten the edges neatly under the top of the table. Hot dishes from the oven can be set on this without harm to the table, and for various other purposes it will be found very useful. FOOD PROTECTION The Utah State Defense Council, aided by Agricultural College, Logan, have made it possible to offer the different Ward organizations in Utah and Idaho at cost a limited number of National Steam Pressure Canning Outfits A CARLOAD of Junior No. 1 Outfits with a capacity of 200 to 400 ends daily is expected in