[Vol4 | July 1917 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: Hazel Washburn]
Hazel  Washburn.

THE 
Relief  Society  Magazine 
Vol.  IV.  JULY,  1917.  No.  7. 
Epistle  to  the  Relief  Society  Con- 
cerning these  War  Times. 
Dear  Sisters:  It  is  natural  that  our  hearts  and  emotions  are 
stirred  to  the  utmost  in  this  crucial  time  of  the  world's  history. 
At  present  our  country  is  at  war  with  another  great  and 
powerful  nation.  We  would  invite  your  strict  attention  to  the 
remarks  made  by  President  Joseph  F.  Smith  in  our  last  confer- 
ence : 
"the  spirit  which  the  latter-day  saints  should  manifest 
IN    WAR. 
"Speaking  of  the  posibility  of  conflict,  of  war,  I  exhort  my 
friends,  the  people  of  our  country,  especially  in  this  intermount- 
ain  region,  to  maintam  above  all  other  things  the  spirit  of  hu- 
manity, of  love,  and  of  peace-making,  that  even  though  they  may 
be  called  into  action  they  will  not  demolish,  override  and  destroy 
the  principles  which  we  believe  in,  which  we  have  tried  to  incul- 
cate, and  which  we  are  exhorted  to  maintain ;  peace  and  good 
will  toward  all  mankind,  though  we  may  be  brought  into  action 
w'th  the  enemy.  I  want  to  say  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  who  may 
enlist,  and  whose  services  the  country  mav  require,  that  when  they 
become  soldiers  of  the  State  and  of  the  Nation  that  they  will  not 
forget  that  they  are  also  soldiers  of  the  Cross,  that  they  are  min- 
isters of  life  and  not  of  death  ;  and  when  they  go  forth,  they 
may  go  forth  in  the  spirit  of  defending  the  liberties  of  mankind 
rather  than  for  the  purpose  of  destroying  the  enemy.  If  we  could 
convert  them  to  peaceful  ways  and  to  the  love  of  peace  without 
destroying  them,  we  would  become  saviors  of  men.  And  it  is 
abominable  that  men  who  engage  in  the  great  and  grand  and 
necessary  duty  of  protecting  and  guarding  our  Nation  from  the 
encroachments  of  wicked  enemies,  cruel  and  destructive  foes, 
should  not  maintain  among  themselves  lives  of  honor,  virtue,  pu- 
rity and  of  immunity  from  sin  and  crime  of  every  kind.  It  is  a 
disgraceful  thought  that  a  man  to  become  a  soldier  should  be- 
come a  rake  and  abandon  himself  to  cr'me  and  wickedness.     Let