[Vol4 | July 1917 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons]
Guide  Lessons. 
AUGUST. 
Home  Economics 
LESSON  I. 
CANNING  SOUPS. 
The  canning  of  vegetable  soups,  purees,  and  consommes  is 
thoroughly  practical,  and  should  be  a  part  of  our  economy  work. 
It  will  be  a  delight  next  winter  to  be  able  to  reach  to  a  shelf 
for  a  home-canned  jar  of  soup,  open  it,  heat  it,  and  serve  within 
a  few  minutes'  time. 
We  are  accused  of  being  a  wasteful  people,  wasting  much  of 
the  products  of  garden  and  farm.  The  bones  that  are  often  dis- 
carded when  meat  is  being  packed  for  winter  use  contain  valu- 
able food.  Let  us  develop,  through  soup  making  and  soup  can- 
ning, habits  of  economy  and  education  in  thrift.  The  bones  from 
beef  and  chicken  are  by  far  the  most  common,  though  others  can 
be  used. 
SOUP  CANNING  RECIPES. 
Soup  Stock. 
Secure  twenty-five  pounds  of  beef  hocks,  joints,  and  bones 
containing  marrow.  Strip  off  the  fat  and  meat  and  crack  bones 
with  a  hatchet  or  cleaver.  Put  the  broken  bones  in  a  thin  cloth 
sack  and  place  them  in  a  large  kettle  conta'ning  five  gallons  of 
cold  water.  Simmer  (do  not  boil)  for  six  or  seven  hours.  Do  not 
salt  while  simmering.  Skim  off  all  fat.  This  should  make  about 
five  gallons  of  stock.  Pack  hot  in  glass  jars,  bottles,  or  enamel 
or  lacquered  tin  cans.  Partially  seal  glass  jars.  (Seal  tin  cans.) 
Sterilize  fifty  minutes  if  using  a  hot-water  bath  outfit ;  fortv  min- 
utes if  using  a  water-seal  or  a  five  pound  steam-pressure  outfit; 
thirty  minutes  if  using  a  pressure-cooker  outfit. 
(Check  list  of  supplies  to  be  provided  before  beginning  work.) 
25  pounds  of  beef  bones. 
5  gallons  of  water. 
/  'cgctable  Soup. 
Soak  Y\  pound  lima  or  navy  beans  and  1  pound  rice  for  12 
hours.  Cook  y2  pound  pearl  barley  for  2  hours.  Blanch  1  poun'l 
carrots,  1  pound  onions,  1  medium-sized  potato,  and  1  red  pepper 
for  3  minutes  and  blanch.  Prepare  the  vegetables  and  cut  into 
small  cubes.  Mix  thoroughly  lima  or  navy  beans,  rice,  barlev. 
cf.rrots,  onions,  potatoes,  red  pepper.     Fill  glass  jars  or  the  en-