[Column 1]
save their grain to plant that others might
have bread.
	In our territorial condition we gave wo-
men the ballot, but Congress took it away.
The first time the men of Utah had a
chance they gave it back again. The wo-
man suffragists of Utah could always get a
hearing when men could not.
	I would say to these sisters of the
National Association, that men do not, as a
rule, feel disinclined to suffrage because they
do not believe it is your right to vote, but
because they believe it is your right not to
vote. But they are beginning to believe in
suffrage, because they know that woman
has always carried the burdens of mankind.
A man who did not at first believe in wo-
man suffrage, said he read Parkhurst’s ar-
raignment of the city government, and he
noticed that while the professional men
laughed, the women held a meeting and
laid out their plan of attack, and the
proudest police captains bowed their heads.
Then he knew that woman was the power
needed to reform politics. In the great
essentials of the world, woman has always
been the burden bearer.
	Miss Anthony referred to Senator Brown,
who had not yet reached the city, as the
brother of Rev. Olympia Brown, who was
a life-long worker for woman suffrage. She
also said she would call on Representative
Allen to tell how it felt to have a wife as
good as he was. Mr. Allen made a very
bright speech. He referred to the great-
ness of Utah in resources, but her best
claim to greatness was in her people. She
had started right in giving the franchise to
that part of society which intrinsically
knows what is right. Utah greatly ap-
preciates this demonstration, made in honor
of its being third in the true and lasting
Union which is destined to grow stronger
year by year, until it shall conquer in
every State.
	Mrs. Sarah A. Boyer, of Springfield,
Utah, was next introduced. She made
some very good points, substantially as
follows:
	The question of woman Suffrage under-
lies all national progress. It means the
breaking down of every institution that
threatens to break down the home. A
century of progress has filled our prisons
and our insane asylums, and depraved the
morals of men. Something is wrong.
We need co-operation of men and women
in our government to perpetuate its virtues.
The Federal Union is to be congratulated
on the addition of so loyal and patriotic a
people as those of Utah. It is 45 years
since Utah became a Territory; women had
the ballot for seventeen years, and used it
well. In the midst of every struggle the
women of Utah had remained undaunted;
working together with men they will make
the name of Utah a synonym for progress.
	Mrs. Emily Richards, of Salt Lake City,
was the next speaker. She considered that
the putting a woman suffrage provision in
the State Constitution was the direct result
of the former temporary adoption of it. 
She said in part: 
	Throughout the history of Utah there
has been a growing tendency toward inde-
pendence, self-culture, and self-reliance
among women. The years in which wo-
men exercised the right of suffrage shows
that they prized their privilege and per-
formed their duties with fidelity. The
revocation of their ballot was regarded as
arbitrary and unwarranted: an injury to be
remedied, rather than acquiesced in. A

