[Column 2]
	IN Wyoming the State superintendent of
instruction, M1ss Estelle Reel, is conducting
her office with such skill and winning such
golden opinions that her nomination for
Governor of Wyoming in 1896 is being
seriously considered.
	MISS LAURENCE TADEMA, the daughter
of Alma-Tadema, has written one fairly
successful book, "The Crucifix." She has
just completed a translation of Maaterlinck’s
plays, for which she has written a preface
that is said to possess exceptional literary
merit. Miss Tadema is not yet twenty-five
years of age, and is an artist as well as a
writer.
	THE Woman’s Political Equality Club of
Rochester. N. Y., held a "Lucretia Mott"
anniversary social, at the residence of Dr.
E. M. Moore, on the evening of Jan. 16.
An interesting biographical sketch of the
"Saintly Lucretia" was read by Mrs. Jean
Brooks Greenleaf. Personal reminiscences
were given by Dr. E. M. Moore, who is a
nephew of James Mott, and by Miss Susan
B. Anthony.
	MRS. ELLEN M. HENROTIN’ president of
the General Federation of Women’s Clubs,
has issued a circular letter to all the club
presidents, asking them to bring forward
the consideration of a peace movement in
Europe and in this country. The ultimate
hope is to have a convention of the Chris-
tian powers in 1900, with a view to estab-
lishing an international court of arbitration.
	Many of the club presidents have already
acted in accordance with the letter.
	MRS. MARY A. LIVERMORE, recently 
entertained the Bostonian Club with rem-
niscences of "Boston Sixty Years Ago."
Her home was on Salem Street, near the
corner of Bennett Street—the court end of
Boston .Mrs. Livermore’s earliest recollec-
tion of an important event is the visit of
Lafayette, when the roads between Boston
and Worcester were gaily decorated, and all
the children in town dressed up in honor of
the event.
	A LARGE and brilliant assembly greeted
Miss Anthony and Mrs. Upton at the home
of the editor of the TRIBUNE last Saturday.
	There were Senators and members, with
their wives, the gifted ladies from National
Park Seminary, and a large number of the
prominent women of the District, many of
them with their husbands. Miss Anthony
had only been in the city a few hours, but
did not seem fatigued with her journey and
was in her usual health and spirits.—Ex.
	MISS HELEN M. WINSLOW, of this city,
who made a prolonged visit at the Atlanta,
(Ga.) Exposition, found much there that is
interesting and encouraging in relation to
the work and progress of women. In a let-
ter to the Boston Transcript she writes ap
preciatively of the women who composed
the Women’s Board of Managers, and re-
counts some of the many difficulties they
bravely overcame. She says significantly:
"While the Exposition itself comes out be-
hind in money matters, the Women’s
Board, who built and managed the Wo-
man’s Building, unaided and unadvised by
men, came out with about $4,000 in their
treasury."—Ex.
	MISS Clara Barton has sailed for England,
en route to Armenia, with the prayers and
sympathy of the American people for her
safety and success. It is a difficult and
delicate task to invade the domain of a


monarch to assist a province which has as-
pirations for political as well as religious
liberty, and we must not ignore the fact that
the persecutions have a political and not a
religious basis; hence the Sultan’s objection
to his rebellious subjects being assisted by
money raised at meetings called to denounce
the government. But Miss Barton will
make the humanitarian side prominent and
will never step on a Moslem to aid a Chris-
tian. She will assuredly secure not only
the permission but the co-operation of the
Sublime Porte.


