R. S. REPORTS. 
MARICOPA STAKE. 
	MINUTES of Relief Society Conference
held at Mesa, Arizona, Dec. 20, 1895.
President Mabel Ann Hakes presiding.
Stake President Collin R. Hakes, Henry
C. Rogers, and other brethren present beside
a goodly number of the society.
President Alice Richens, Mesa Ward,
Louisa Harper,Lehi Ward, Ann Klienman,
Alma Ward, Esther Openshaw, Nephi
Ward, and Sister Sarah Tiffany of Papago
Ward, gave encouraging reports from these
respective wards. All seemed to be doing
as well as usual, although there seemed to
be a faithful few who had to do the princi-
pal part of the work of the respective
society, but upon the whole there was a
general good feeling and we had a good
meeting.
	Sisters Brimhall, Emma Rogers and
Sister Bailey bore their testimony and ex-
pressed joy and pride, that they were num-
bered with the Latter-day Saints.
	Sister M. A. Hakes, Sister Lizzie A.
Macdonald had visited all the wards during
the last three months, the other counselor,
S. A. Robson had not been able to go on ac-
count of her failing health. They found
everything working well and the sisters in
the various branches doing a good work in
caring for the sick and helping where
help was needed. Sister Lizzie A.
MacDonald gave some timely exhortations
as well as good advice to the Saints in gen-
eral, and mothers in particular.
	Brother Henry C. Rogers spoke for a
short time on the importance of attending
our meetings, as well as all other duties de-
volving upon a real live Latter-day Saint.
	President Collin R. Hakes was altogether
proud of the Saints of Maricopa Stake.
Spoke a short time on the duties of those
who had accepted positions of responsibility
in the Church, and the order of the Gospel.
Annual reports approved, also the minutes
of previous meeting by Bishop Eli Open-
shaw, conference was adjourned for three
months.	F. E. ROBSON, Sec.
SIXTH WARD.
	MINUTES of monthly-meeting held in
the Sixth Ward Assembly Room, Jan. 2nd,
1896. President West presiding. Present
Counselor Ellen R. Watson. There were
also present Bishop Jas. C. Watson, Coun-
selor Jesse West, M. Isabella Horne, Stake
President. Counselor Annie T. Hyde and
Clara C. Cannon. Also Brothers Jas,
Latham and Pugh. Singing, ‘’How firm a
foundation.” Minutes of previous meet-
ing read and approved.
	President West expressed her pleasure in
having President Horne and Counselors
with us this afternoon. Owing to the de-
mise of our late Counselor, Sister Britton,
Sister Janet Cochrane had been elected in
our last meeting to fill the vacancy, being
absent no further steps were taken at that
time; President West had spoken personally
with her later, owing to her advanced age
and poor health, she declined the position.
it was now in order to choose a Counselor.
Would like to hear from the Bishop on this
subject.
	Bishop Watson explained Sister Coch-
rane’s circumstances, said while it is our
right to call, we have also the right to ex-
cuse, Sister Cochrane’s excuse was a
righteous one, he was satisfied she did not
desire to shirk any duty. Spoke of her
faithfulness, her integrity, she felt in her
declining years unable to fill this position.
Spoke of President West’s long sickness,
her faithfulness. The good work the
society were engaged in.
	President West made choice of Sister El-
len Watson first Counselor, Sister Alice
Butterworth, second Counselor. On motion
of Bishop Watson, Counselor Ellen R.
Watson was elected first Counselor to
President West, carried by unanimous vote.
On motion of Sister Condie, Sister Alice
Butterworth was elected second Counselor.
carried unanimously.
Counselor Ellen R. Watson was set apart
by Bishop Jas. C. Watson.
Counselor Alice Butterworth by Coun-
selor Jesse West.
President Horne, "my sisters I am
pleased to meet with you.” Wished all a
Happy New Year, peace, health and pros-
perity. Spoke of the duties of the Presi-


dent, the order of the Relief Society, the
society should be in harmony with the
Bishopic of the wards. “I was connected
with the first Relief Society organized by
the Prophet Joseph. Heard the gospel for
the first time, three weeks after my mar-
riage with Brother Home. In shaking
hands with the Prophet Joseph, felt such
an influence that it thrilled my body like
electricity. Knew he was a Prophet of
the Lord. Had never lost the spirit of the
gospel from that time. Gave a brief sketch
of her life. Felt to prize and honor the
associations and acquaintance dearly. “The
adversary is abroad on the earth, we need
to be wise. Read the Book of Mormon,
Doctrine and Covenants and the Bible, those
who study these works have no time for
fault finding." Spoke of some, who were
connecting themselves with Christian
Science. Satan has great power on the
earth, we should watch and pray, that our
minds may not be darkened; be careful how
we speak of the Lord’s anointed. Spoke
of the power Satan exercised over the
messenger sent to Daniel in answer to his
prayer, by obstructing his path and en-
gaging in combat, how the Heavenly Mes-
senger who overcame him, also explained
to Daniel why he had been delayed. Spoke
of the prophecy of the Prophet Joseph on
the signs of the times. He said when the
Russian Bear puts his paw on the British
Lion be sure the end is not far off. Presi-
dent Horne said I am pleased with your
choice of your Counselors Alice Butter-
worth whom I have been acquainted with
for a number of years. Spoke of her
financial abilities, her faithfulness in the
gospel. Spoke of Sister Cochrane’s
integrity to the truth. Spoke of the
responsibility of the teachers. The Relief
Society were not to assist the poor alone;
but also to edify and instruct each other
and save souls. None but pure chaste wo-
men should be members; gave much good
instructions, especially in regard to storing
of grain. Closed her remarks by urging
the sisters to be diligent in discharging
their duties.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde “I have been
pleased with the remarks of Sister Horne,
she always tells us something good." Desired
to assist in Zion’s cause. Regretted that so
few were here today, many did not realize
the importance of the Relief Society, both
old and young women should be members.
The Prophet Joseph was inspired to
organize the sisters. Emma Smith was
called to the office of President by revela-
tion. Joseph in giving instructions in the
third meeting, said none but women of good
repute should become members. The work
is not to relieve the poor alone, but to ex-
hort and expound the scriptures. Urged
the teachers to invite and encourage the
sisters to come to meeting. Did not know
how any could absent themselves from
meeting; the spirit of God could not dwell
with such. We need all the instructions
we can receive. Many blessings are
promised to mothers, if we are faithful we
can administer to our children, call on the
Lord to bless them,and to heal them if they
are sick. These are great and glorious
privileges for mothers to enjoy, the Priest-
hood of God is on the earth today, it is
patterned after the order of Enoch and
Paul.
	President Horne related an incident
where her child was healed throngh the
administration of Mother Smith, the
Prophet Joseph’s mother.
	Counselor Clara C. Cannon regretted that
the sisters were not more anxious to be con-
nected with the Relief Society, these as-
sociations were not only a benefit but a
great blessing to woman. Advised the
teachers to labor with them. Tell them of
the blessings to be derived from the good
instructions given there, how they would
help to lighten their labors at home. The
Prophet Joseph said every virtuous woman
should belong the to Relief Society. I have
heard the remark, that old women have
nothing to talk about, in this they make a
grand mistake. We can talk to each other
of the gospel, its principles never grow old,
we can learn something new every day
from it. My sisters, let us educate our-
selves! And know our true position, no
one can give.us their testimony, we have to
earn our own salvation, to know the truth
for ourselves; our conscience will tell us
when we do wrong. President Horne told
us of the power of Satan we cannot afford
to be careless. Read good books, be hum-
ble and prayerful. Seek to know the truth
for yourselves, that we may be faithful to
the end."
	Sister Alice Butterworth said “my sisters
I will try to fill the position assigned me,
by the assistance of my Heavenly Father,
had received many blessings through faith
and prayer.”
	Sister Ellen R. Watson said, “In accept-
ing the position I am called to occupy, my
only desire is to do good, to assist the poor,
to help the sick and afflicted, and perform
my duties.” Asked God to bless this
society.
	Sister Margaret Latham was set apart as
first Counselor to President Hunter of
Primary Association by Brother John
Latham. Sister Elizabeth E. Watson as
s econd Counselor by Bishop Jas. C. Watson.
Bishop Watson made closing remarks,
thanked President Horne and Counselors
for their visit. Exhorted the sisters to be
faithful in the discharge of theirduties.
	Adjourned for one month. Benediction
by Counselor Jesse West.
	After close of meeting. President Horne
and Counselors with Bishop Watson, Coun-
selor Jesse West and officers of Relief
Society repaired to President West’s where
a bounteous luncheon awaited them, pre-
pared by her daughters. After a pleasant
time and social chat, all returned to their
homes feeling blest and benefited by the
good instructions given.
