[Column 2]
the sisters needed humility and wisdom it
is now. God loves a smiling face and a
cheerful spirit.” She said we little knew
of the fasting and prayer of our brethren for
wisdom and the power of God; felt we were
in the beginning of a new era. Spoke
strongly of dedicating ourselves to the Lord,
said she often thought of the favorite speech
of President John Taylor that “The Lord
God Omnipotent reigneth.” Asked God’s
blessing to rest upon us.
	A Sister said four years ago she left her
home father and mother for the gospel but
had found them all here; in the last year she
had had many trials but had also many
blessings. Bore a strong testimony. Sister
J. C. Howe felt the Spirit of God was here
in great abundance. Was glad to hear the
last speaker express her gratitude. Said
these meetings had been a great blessing to
her. Had come here many times cast down
and in trouble but had gone away comfort-
ed and feeling ten years younger. The
gospel was sweeter to her than any thing
else. Referred to the sisters having the
FRANCHIISE and knew they would vote for
good men; said to never miss our prayers.
Asked God to bless us all. Sister Louie
Stevenson said we should teach our child-
ren by example as well as words; felt it
was good to have trials for it was through
them that blessings came. When we attend-
ed to our prayers the Spirit of God would
never leave us. Prayed we might have all
the righteous desires of our hearts.
	Sister Mary Silver bore her testimony
and hoped she would be able to endure to
the end. Sister Mary Gurber said she had
come from Germany and left every thing
for the gospel. Had been a member of the
Church 33 years, felt very grateful for the
blessings she enjoyed although she had
many trials. Was blessed and strengthen-
ed every time she came to these meetings.
Gave a report of her Primary Association;
said she had always been a teacher in the
Relief Society felt thankful for it, knew
Satan was trying to over turn our efforts for
good. Prayed the Lord to bless us all.
	Sister M. Wilcox felt it a privilege to
meet here with her sisters; bore a strong
testimony said we could see the hand of the
Lord over us for good. We should ac-
knowledge the hand of the Lord at all
times. Spoke of the efficacy of prayer,
felt we owed a debt of gratitude to God for
his goodness to us. Asked God to bless us
all. Sister Rawlings felt to ask God to
bless her said she wae afflicted very much
with rheumatism altho’ she had great faith;
bore her testimony, felt it a great privilege
to do work in the Holy Temple. Sister
Phelps said she had a testimony to bear,
her desire was to be faithful. It filled her
heart with joy to see so many young men
called into the field. Prayed continually to
God that He would go with them and pro-
tect them and fill them with the Spirit of
their mission; if they kept themselves pure
they would have power to command the ele-
ments. Sister Morris said if we became a
united band of sisters we could do much;
we must ever be watchful and prayerful.
Asked God to bless us and help us to be
faithful.
	Singing “There’s a feast of fat things,”
etc. Sister L. D. Alder desired to add her
testimony with the others, wondered how
many of us were living as we should: said
the song just sung brought these thoughts
to her mind. Tell at these meetings we
were fed by the bread of life; here we could


speak one to another. Many had passed
behind the vail, knew that God was at the
helm. Tell that we were all trying to do
what was right. Prayed that we might be
in touch with God and always trust him.
Sister Brown had enjoyed the meeting so
much; said the first thing she did in the
morning was to dedicate herself to the Lord
and it was a great help to her. Trials
brought us nearer to the Lord. Prayed
God to be always with us but especially this
coming year. Sister E. Ball said the
Spirit whispered to her and asked her if
she had not something to thank her Heaven-
ly Father for; she said "Yes much.” Spoke
of her ill health, but knew she was improv
ing. God was good to her in giving her
the things that were best for her to have.
Thought we were living in a glorious time,
our women are pure and the prayers of the
daughters of Zion will be heard and an-
swered.
	Sister Stevenson made some closing re-
marks. Urged the sisters to come to the
Temple and spoke of the very small com-
panies. Prayed God to inspire the people
to Temple work. Singing “Our God we
raise to Thee.” Benediction by Sister E.
S. Taylor.
Zina Hyde Ass’t. Sec


