CONFERENCE N. A. W. S. A.

	Although my mind is simply teeming
with the work of this last year I think I
have told you enough, but the Colorado
women are in politics and they mean to stay
and the men like to have them although
some of them don’t, but they are not the
best men I assure you, and we prize the
ballot more and more. It has been said
that giving woman the ballot will simply
double the vote, that all women will vote
just as their husbands do or if they don’t
they will fight. I don’t vote as my hus-
band does. This is the twentieth year of
our married life and while he has been a
Republican and I have been a Democrat it
has not created any dissension between us;
he is perfectly delighted to hear my views,
it is variety that gives the spice to life, and
gives self respect to each of them. Yes,
the Democratic wife of a Republican hus-
band went all about the State and stumped
the State for the party to which her hus-
band was opposed. So I think that speaks
well for the husband. Miss Shaw is going
to speak to you now. I give to you women
of Utah the right hand of fellowship from
the women of Colorado, and I assure you
that as the days go by you will find the suf-
frage conferred upon you the most beautiful,
the most delightful and the most gratifying,
that your children will look upon you with
a great deal more respect because they will
realize that you have the same rights that
their fathers have, and I hope that our wo-
men will not vote just exactly as their hus
bands do. You know the children of a
Democratic mother and a Republican father
never can grow up thinking that all the
political wisdom in the world is found in
one particular party—they will, realize that 
it is divided up pretty equally, and honest
men and honest women may be divided in
politics if they will only remain loyal to
the declaration of Independence, loyal to
the stars and stripes and loyal to the Con-
stitution of the United States and the
magnificent expression of the power that
makes right and justice, which is embodied
in this glorious democratic—republican
government. (Applause.) 
	Miss Anthony: I will introduce to you
the Vice-president at large of a still larger 
Association than our Suffrage Association
and that is the Vice-president at large of
the National Council of Women of the
United States which has held its second
triennial council in the City of Washing-
ton and which three years from now will
hold its third triennial council and that
council consists not only of the Suffrage
Society but it consists of nineteen other
national organizations of this country; wo-
men organized for one and another great 
purpose, and as you have always heard it
said that you have never heard of any class
of women organizing for any other than a

