[Column 2] 
guests among whom were many very old
friends and distinguished visitors.
	About two hundred guests, relatives and
intimate friends of Mrs. Young were seated
at the banquet in the spacious dining room
of the Templeton, President Lorenzo Snow
of the Quorum of the Apostles offered the
benediction. Clive’s band discoursed the
choicest selections of music in the ante-
room during dinner, and after partaking of
the sumptuous repast, the company re-
paired to the parlors and the program of
exercises begun, Captain Willard Young
Master of Ceremonies; opening with music,
voluntary, on the piano by Miss Kate
Romney—song by Miss Carrol C. Cannon,
“Pilgrim’s Band of Hope” encore; Captain
Young’s address to his mother in recogni-
tion of the day, and her many labors and
teachings, which was both tender and elo-
quent—Singing led by Professor C. J.
Thomas and Maggie Hull, “O, my Father
thou that dwellest’’ etc. Response to toast,
“The Relief Society’’ by Mrs. Sarah M.
Kimball, giving the origin and organiza-
tion of that great and grand association.
Sister Bathsheba W. Smith followed con-
firming the statements made by Sister
Kimball and expressing her own views and
her delight on this happy occasion. Mrs.
Nellie C. Taylor read an original poem by
Emily H. Woodmansee after which more
music was given and a recitation by little
Zina Card—“Christ And The Little Ones”
song by Maggie Hull, poem by Augusta
J. Crocheron, read by Annie Wells Can-
non, telegrams of congratulations to Mrs.
Young from Ephraim, Nephi and Lehi in
behalf of the sisters of the society of these
places, were read. Speech by President
George Q. Cannon, in which he alluded to
the privileges of equality the sisters now
enjoyed and urged wisdom and caution in
the exercise of the franchise. Con-
gratulated Sister Zina on her labors, the
enjoyment of all her faculties and health
and strength at the great age, referred to
the many blessings the Saints enjoyed at
the present time.
	Response by the venerable President
Zina D. H. Young, and more music; speech
impromptu, Mrs. E. B. Wells and conver-
sation general among the guests. After-
wards Mrs. May B. Talmage recited “Only
A Girl,’’ very impressively rendered, and
there was music by Rhoda Mabel Young,
and songs in Hawaiian language by Elder
Jacob Gates and a speech by Elder Oliver
B. Huntington of Springville brother of
Mrs. Young; recitation “The New Church
Organ” by Mrs. Elizabeth McCune in her
inimitable style and humorous recitations
by Zebulun Jacobs grandson of Mrs. Young,
speech by George Chase of Centerville
and other exercises. The singing of
“Auld Lang Syne” completed the evening’s
entertainment. It was a very enjoyable
affair and a day never to be forgotten by
those who had the privilege of assembling
together and congratulating the lady in
whose honor the party was given.
	One thing to be regretted is that all the
very dear friends of Sister Young could not
have met in one place but there is no hall
large enough; and the Committees had to
decide on a certain number; in a party
given for one so universally beloved and
respected it would require a place as large
as the Theater or the Pavilion at Saltair.
	The entertainments given in the several
wards on the same day so far as we have
heard were very happy and enjoyable gather-
ings


