[Column 2]
room girls were women, but to-day the
table girls are no longer girls, they are six
feet high and two feet broad dressed in
swallow-tailed coats. (Laughter.) To-day
the washer women have no place, they are
all men. When I was in the office of an
eastern laundry not very long ago I saw a
picture hanging on the wall and I counted
the number of persons on the picture and
there were seven women and two hundred
men. It was a group picture of a conven-
tion of the Laundrymen’s Association. So
you see when men take to washing for a
living they are so proud of it that they have
to have their pictures taken; you never heard
of a washerwoman having her picture taken.
	Then again, Dressmaking used to be a
very good employment for women when I
was young, but to-day in every city in the
world the leading Dressmakers are all men
and a woman will not be able to decide
what she shall do until a man over in Paris
settles it for her. If he says all skirts
should be made with godets and bias, why
godets it is and men dressmakers are ex-
cellent. I never had any experience with
a man dressmaker until this last spring and
then I had two gowns made by a man
dressmaker and I will say it is divine, it is
lovely because he will let you have pockets.
	The gown I have on was made by a man
dressmaker and one thing I do need is a
pocket. I have gone to the dressmaker
with the utmost fear in my soul, please
may I be permitted to have a pocket? And
then the dressmaker would look at me in
snch a superior manner and say: “There is
no place for a pocket.” When I said to
this man dressmaker, “Please may I have
a pocket”? He said “Yes.” I took cour-
age and said: “May I have two?” He
said; “As many as you wish.” and I said;
“If I can have three.” So I have three
pockets in my gown and I have quite a time
hunting things for I put something in each
pocket.
	Not only are all the dressmakers of the
country men to-day, but the milliners of the
country are all men. I have a friend who
has a very large millinery establishment
and he has twenty trimmers—not a woman
in the store, and if there is anything comic-
al it is to see a man weighing 350 pounds
trimming a tiny bit of a bonnet and using
his fist for a model. So gentlemen, I
would like to ask you where is our sphere?
	You’ve got it. (Laughter.) We are not
complaining about it, there is not a
woman of us has found any fault, I believe
a man has as much right to be a washer-
woman as a woman has. We women are
not complaining. Why should you men
feel that the moment a woman does any-
thing that women always have done, and
men have not done when it is remunerative
employment that she is out of her sphere.
	If there is anything in my sphere that a
man wants even if it is my washtub he can
have it.
	Take the world altogether my belief of
the future is this, that when men and
women are free and the boys and girls stand
on the border of life side by side in the
same home where God puts them and look
out into the great world of progress, I hope
the time will come when we can say to the
girl child as well as the boy child, “God
has given you powers go out and develop
them, and wherever your heart leads follow
on the work of the world’s redemption as
your work as well as the work of your
brothers, and I believe the best work will


