[Column 2]
	Like many other exiles they succeeded in
reaching Commerce, afterwards called Nau-
voo, where the Saints suffered so much.
	At this place Sister Huntington, the mo-
ther, died, a martyr to suffering from the
mobbings and drivings.
	In Nauvoo Sister Zina became a member
of the first Relief Society organization, little
dreaming what would be in the future, and
how great the work would become. When
the Nauvoo Temple was ready for ordinan-
ces she received her blessings and endow-
ments therein.
	She left Nauvoo with the Saints in the
month of February, 1846, with the first
company, crossing the Mississippi river on
the ice. Arriving at Mt. Pisgah, where the
exiles stopped and made a resting place, her
father was taken sick and died. She re-
mained in Winter Quarters on the Missouri
river, until 1848, when she started for the
valley; beginning the journey in May,
reached the valley in September.
	When the Relief Society was established
in Utah, Sister Zina was chosen as treasurer
of the first society in the Eighteenth ward,
where she resided. Some years after, when
Sister Eliza R. Snow was called by Presi-
dent Brigham Young to assist in organiz-
ing in wards, Sister Zina was also called
by the President as Counselor to Sister Eliza,
and she was associated with her in the la-
bors of the Relief Society and traveled in its
interest during Sister Eliza’s lifetime.
	In the silk industry Sister Zina has been
indefatigable and zealous, laboring as no
other woman in this Territory has done, to
establish sericulture. she has raised co-
coons herself, and had charge of President
Young’s large cocoonery and mulberry
orchard. In June, 1876, when a silk
association was organized Sister Zina was
elected President, and she has traveled the
length and breadth of the Territory in its
interest.
	Sister Zina also took a course of medical
studies under Dr. Willard Richards in the
early days in the valley, and became familiar
with the practice among women, and has
given numerous lectures on the subject of
nursing, hygiene and other kindred topics.
	She has traveled as extensively among
the people and spoken as many times as any
other woman and perhaps even more. She
has a rare faculty of ministering to the sick
and sorrowing, and is often alluded to as
“Aunt Zina the Comforter;” having such
intense sympathy, added to the gift of heal-
ing, which she seems naturally to possess.
	Her presence in the sick room is always
soothing aud uplifting to the afflicted.
	Sister Zina is an inspirational impromptu
speaker; her speeches, in mass meetings a[-]d
and on various great occasions, have been
widely circulated by newspaper reporters.
	She holds her audience without an effort
by her natural eloquenoe.
	In 1879 she visited the Sandwich Islands.
During this trip she met many noted people.
The same fall she accompanied Sister Eliza
to St. George. There they labored in the
Temple, and among the sisters’organiza-
tions, held meetings, traveled over a thou-
sand miles, often camping out over night.


