[Column 1]
	THE Stake Secretaries of the Relief
Society in all the organized Stakes, and in
branches of the Society in this and other
countries where there is no Stake organized
should send in a statistical and financial
yearly report for 1895. At the last busi.
ness meeting of the Board of Directors of
the National Woman’s Relief Society, a
quorum being present, it was decided that
the annual report of the Society should be
made in February, therefore instead of dat-
ing from the first day of January to the last
day of December inclusive, reports will be
hereafter from February to February of
each year. This year reports must date
from the first day of January 1895, or other-
wise a correct record could not be kept.
Secretaries should be careful and exact in
conforming to this official notice. All re-
ports should be forwarded to the office of the
Secretary, Constitution Building, Salt Take
City, not later than the 20th of February.
	MISS Mary E. CUTLER, of Holliston,
Mass., read the paper of the day at the
Farmers’ Meeting in this city recently.
Her subject was "The Profits of Garden-
ing." From a successful experience of
eleven years in raising fruits and vege-
tables for market, she drew the conclusion
that gardening can be made both pleasant
and profitable. Through the sudden death
of her father, Miss Cutler found herself in
possession of sixty-eight acres. She gave
up teaching and determined to keep her
home and to carry on her farm. The inter-
esting story she told of her forcing house
and hotbeds, her nursery stock, her market
garden, her small fruits and peach orchard,
shows that she puts brains into her work.
She has good judgment and business ability,
and believes in hard work, method and
wise economy. Mrs. Olive Wright, of
Denver, who was present, told of Mrs.
Kate Harlow, a well known fruit-grower
in Colorado, and a successful farmer. When
asked how she fertilized her peach orchard,
she replied, "I feed the trees with hard
work and good common sense.
	MRS. HIRST ALEXANDER, a well-known
Australian journalist, now making a short
visit in London, says that marked good
effects have followed the enfranchisement of
women in New Zealand. The Premier of New
Zealand. Hon. Richard J. Seddon, and the
principal journals have all acknowledged,
she says, that the influence of women dur-
ing the election, and after, has been
beneficial. The women have turned their
attention to ameliorating the conditions of
prisons, promoting the welfare of children
and other measures with which they are
qualified to deal. Giving the vote to wo-
men has in no wise disturbed the even tenor
of their domestic ways, and there is no
symptom that it has rendered them at all
"mannish.” The New Zealand govern-
ment has opened a Woman’s Labor Bureau

