THE UTAH EVENING.
	The evening of Jan. 27, was devoted to
the welcome of Utah. Senator Cannon
and wife, and Representative Allen and
wife, and others were on the platform.
The Senator had just arrived in the city,
and the formal recognition of the third star,
which gave particular lustre to the Con-
vention, had been postponed until his ar-
rival.
	After Miss Anthony’s greeting, Rev.
Anna Shaw tendered the welcome of the
Association. She said in part:
	The triumph of Utah is our triumph.
We too, should be congratulated. Every
Star added to the flag—that means all a
flag can mean to any human being in pro-
tection or rights, and is a guarantee of lib-
erty, means the e'evation of every human
being the round world over. It means
that we are beginning to learn that “One
is our Father, and all we are brethren.”
With the incoming of Utah with freedom
for every one of its citizens, not only Utah,
but the United States, and wherever there
breathes a human being, every soul is bene-
fited. This third star is a prophecy that
the stars shall come out on our banner un-
til our blue field will be a banner of glory.
We expected this of Utah. Their men
would have been unworthy sons had they
not done this. No man who has stood by
his mother and has seen the tolls, hopes,
and the time of seed-sowing of both ful-
filled in the hour of Statehood, would have
been a true son if he had refused to grant
her liberty with himself.
	These three stars are the gems on the
crown of our States. Wherever we go in
the West, and look toward Heaven, we
can see these three stars. I welcome you
as one of the three which makes glad the
heart of the woman who loves liberty.
Thrice welcome, grand Utah, not only to
our Republic of States, but to our Re-
public of stars that denote the only true
Republic the world has ever known.
	Senator Cannon eloquently responded
for Utah. He said:
	During the forty-nine years of life in
Utah the women had furnished the courage
and the trust in God. Then when the
question came up as to their enfranchise-
ment, we said “Yes, though it should
take another forty-nine years to gain our
Statehood.” The mother who bore me
endured the trials and privations of pioneer
life twelve years before I saw the light.
The women traveled across the desert with
bleeding feet; they drove the ox carts;
they lived on roots season after season to


