THE THIRD STAR.

	THE President’s Proclamation of the
Statehood of Utah issued January 4th, was
the occasion of a triumphal holiday all over
Utah and of a great demonstration in Salt
Lake City. The new Governor, Heber M.
Wells, did not forget to extend the hand of
greeting to the women who are now voters.
	There are no women in the United
States better fitted to exercise the right of
suffrage than the women of Utah. They
are accustomed to manage great enterprises
as witness their Relief Associations they
are thrifty, industrious, and simple and
sincere in tastes and habits. When voters
before they contributed to good local gov-
ernment. Since that time they have joined
hands with the women of the Suffrage As-
sociation, with the World’s Fair work and
in that union of all ties the National Coun-
cil, and in each capacity they have demon-
strated their earnestness and ability.
	Then too, there is something of poetical
justice that their rights should be accorded
them while as yet there are some to enjoy
it who helped to lay the foundations of their
prosperous commonwealth. In all that has
gone to making the desert-blossom like the
rose, the women of Utah have borne their
full share of workers, and that large share
of endurance and of sacrifice which in one
shape or another has always been the lot of
woman. Think of it, there are some still
left to exercise their tardily acquired right
who pushed their handcarts with their
babies and their bundles in them those
weary miles across the Great American
Deseret. The early Mormon women were
very largely of New England birth, and
they have gloried in having emulated the
exile and privations of the Pilgrims for the
same cause, namely freedom to worship ac-
cording to their conscience. Now that the
extraneous doctrine of polygamy is swept
away, the world will judge more fairly of
the Mormon citizens of Utah, upon the re-
sult of whose pioneer toils and courage
others are now building.
—Womans Tribune.


IN Colorado, last year, only one woman
held the office of county superintendent of
schools. Now there are twenty-three wo-
men superintendents. Yet some of our
remonstrants claim that women are less
likely to be chosen to school offices where
women vote.


