[Column 1]
never be done by men alone or by women
alone and it will never be done until men
and women are free to do the best that God
has made it possible for them to do. We
don’t want men to divide their powers with
us but we do want men to give up our
power which they have taken away from
us. You might as well say if a man with
an extinguished torch had asked a lawyer to
permit him to light his torch by his, that it
would be dividing his light, not only would
it be doubling his light but the light that
the other had taken from him. I see your
good friend Mr. Roberts states it will be
but doubling the vote. I do not think Mr.
Roberts would care very much or be very
sorry if it should double his party vote.
(Applause.) And isn’t it so astonishing
that men do so hate to have women double
their vote and they will fairly go on their
knees to buy out men to double their vote.
(Laughter.)
	Now if it be true that women would help
the most vicious element of society why
does the vicious element of society oppose
woman’s suffrage. Go where you will you
will find the most ignorant and vicious class
of people opposed to woman’s suffrage.
	I would risk my reputation as a prophet
by declaring the largest vote for Woman
Suffrage would be where there was the
greatest intelligence and the largest vote
against it would be where there was least
intelligence. In the state of Kansas at the
last election it was this way and the heavi-
est vote cast against it was by the liquor
league of the state and next to the liquor
men it was the negroes of the state the men
for whom the women of this country sacri-
ficed so much, the men without the women
of this country could never have been freed
the men who were freed because a woman
loving humanity as well as loving one’s
child, sat by the cradle of her baby boy
while she rocked the cradle with her foot
used her hands to write Uncle Tom’s Cabin
and send it out on the wings of freedom
and the seed of liberty was planted in the
hearts of our countrymen. I believe that
Abraham Lincoln would never have been
able to sign the Emancipation Proclamation
had it not been that Uncle Tom’s Cabin
went out before and paved the way in the
hearts of American men and women, (ap-
plause.) And yet these men who won their
freedom by the sacrifice of women were the
men who cast the largest vote against Wo-
man’s Suffrage. It is what slavery always
produces, those who have been slaves when
they have the power to act become tyranni-
cal masters. During the slavery days of
the South there was no overseer as cruel as
the negro when he was made overseer over
other negroes and such is the curse of
slavery that it quenches the impulse for free-
dom in the heart of the slave; and when-
ever I see a woman to-day opposing wo-
man’s enfranchisement that is the result of
the slavery of women belonging to the
centuries of the past; all these years there
has been dawning in her soul no conscious-
ness of the birthright of freedom, and she is
willing to be a subject. Why? Because
she believes in her very abject condition
she can obtain concession whic she could
not obtain as a free woman and the marvel
to me is that so many women are asking
for freedom. And when good men say to
me just as soon as a majority of the women
are in favor of it I will vote for it, of course
know it is not so and of course I know
that they make that excuse. Now we hear

