the National-American W. S. A. opened
Thursday morning, Jan. 23, 1896, in the
Church of Our Father, Washington, D. C.
the president, Miss Anthony, in the chair.
In opening the meeting Miss Anthony said:
	This is the twenty-eighth annual suffrage
convention in Washington. The thought
that brought us here twenty-eight years
ago was that, if the National Constitution
could be invoked to protect black men in
the right to vote, the same great authority
could be evoked to protect women. The
question has been urged upon every Con-
gress since 1869. We asked at first for a
sixteenth amendment, enfranchising wo-
men; then for suffrage under the fourteenth
amendment; then when the Supreme Court
had decided that against us, we returned
to the sixteenth amendment, and have
pressed it ever since. In the present Con-
gress, Senator Hoar has introduced in the
Senate a joint resolution for a sixteenth
amendment, and it has been referred to the
Senate Committee on Woman Suffrage,
of which Senator Call, of Florida is chair-
man. A similar resolution has been pre-
sented in the House by Congressman North-
way, of Indiana, and has been referred to
the Judiciary Committee.
	You will notice that the seats of the dele-
gation from Utah are marked by a large
United States flag bearing three stars, a big
one and two smaller ones. The big star is
for Wyoming, because she stood alone for a
quarter of a century as the only State
where women voted. Colorado comes next,
because she is the first State where a ma-
jority of the men ever voted to grant women
equal rights. Then comes Utah; because
the men of Utah, in convention assembled,
in spite of the bad example of Congress,
which took the right away from the women
of Utah ten years ago,—the men of Utah,
having seen the good effects of woman
suffrage for years before that, voted by an
overwhelming majority to leave out the
little word "male" from their suffrage
clause. Next year, if I am here, I hope to
rejoice over California and Idaho, and the
next year over several more. We have
now three bricks laid down in the row. 
We have every reason for encouragement,
none for discouragement. One sign of
progress is that men in high places begin to 
talk back to us, instead of considering us
unworthy of notice. They read the Call
for our convention; and President Eliot, of
Harvard, does not like it that we quote
him. 
	Miss Anthony read the sentences from
President Eliot's article quoted in the Call,


and continued: Now, friends, you all know
I am a Quaker. We give thanks in silence
before each meal. I do not think the heart
of any one here has been fuller of silent
thankfulness than mine; but I should not
have remembered to have the meeting form-
ally opened with prayer if somebody had
not reminded me. Rev. Anna Shaw will
offer prayer.


