[Column 2]
was a great responsibility on the saints, al-
so that this was truly a time of trial for us,
knew Satan was not dead, felt that we
should ever be on the alert. Exhorted the
sisters to be charitable and each morning
before leaving our room ask God for His
Holy Spirit and for the help we need this
day: scan ourselves and never be above
asking one another’s forgivness if we have
done wrong, for then we could ask God to
forgive us: felt the coming year was full of
trials that we little knew of: we must be
humble and always try and say, “O God
Thy will, not mine, be done.” Prayed
that at the close of 1896 we might feel we
had served the Lord better than the year
before, closed by asking God to bless us all.
	Sister M. O. Brown felt glad of the
record she had made in the Temple this
year. When we could learn to listen to the
still small voice we were blest, we must
live near the Lord, said she never forgot
the sisters nor these meetings: hoped she
would be able to make a greater record in
the Temple this coming year than she had
in the last. Asked God’s blessing upon
us.
	Sister Elizabeth McCune said she had
not been identified with the Relief Society
until the last two months, had been more
with the young ladies: told of a, blessing
she had wherein it was prophecied she
should do a great Relief Society work.
Soon after this she was made Treasurer in
the Relief Society of the Seventeenth
Ward. The next Saturday she came to
these meetings and never enjoyed a meeting
so much. Felt she had missed a great deal
by not attending them before; thought it
would be a good idea to bring a pencil and
paper and jot down some of the words and
ideas of our dearly beloved sisters, Aunt
Zina, Aunt Bathsheba and Sister Horne,
for they were indeed gems and we would
not always have them with us: related a
dream she had; felt she had done better
in the last year than ever before, she felt
well and wanted to do do a great deal bet-
ter in the next. Sister Martha Barrow felt
she had always done the best she could,
had been in the church many years: God
had blessed her with good sons and
daughters. Her son had just come home
from a mission, felt very proud of him and
highly honored. Knew God would and
did bless the missionaries and kept them
from harm and temptation, bore a strong
testimony.
	A sister felt glad she was numbered with
the people of God, bore her testimony. 
	Sister Julia Sampson said the spirit
prompted her to add her testimony to the
others. She thanked her Heavenly Father
for the strength He had given her to enable
her to pass through her trials. Spoke of
the meeting one year ago, also of the sister
who spoke in tongues on that occasion
said there was much we could learn from
one another. We could not be happy in
the eternal world without our children. If
children go astray they will have to pay
the penalty. Hoped we would all have a
happy New Year and that God would give
us those things which would be best for
us.
	Sister Sophia Nuttall spoke of the effort
it was for her to speak, had been told in a
blessing that she should do this, felt this
was a trying time for the young and that it
would require all our strength to save
them: knew our labors would increase but
if we had patience and humility God


would give us the strength and help we
needed. Asked the Lord to bless us.
	Sister M. A. Hardy said she had made a
great effort to come here today, remembered
the meeting one year ago, also the sisters
who spoke in tongues. The desire of her
heart was to go to the Temple this winter;
prayed the Lord would open her way so she
could do so.
	Sister Brown spoke of the goodness of
the Lord to her, said each year she tried to
do better than the last, bore a faithful
testimony.
	Sister E. J. Stevenson felt thankful to 
see some new faces today: said we should
treasure the gems spoken by our aged 
sisters also their testimonies and 
recollections of the Prophet. We should be
a very thankful people, she had done the 
best she could in the past year but wanted 
to try and improve: said the fathers should
do their part in teaching and training the
children, thought parents should never
have differences before their children.
Prayed God to bless us all in the coming
year.
	Sister Jane James said she had lived in
the Prophet’s family: could not express
what a great man he was; she had many
trials and asked the sisters all to pray for
her. 
	Sister Horne made some closing remarks. 
The fathers could not come down to the
capacity of the children as the mothers
could: what children learned in their youth
they always remembered. When they
come home from Sunday School and
Primary, parents should ask them what
they have learned. Prayed we might al-
ways have the Spirit of the Lord to help
us bear our trials. Singing, “Lord dis-
miss us,” etc. Benediction by Sister J.
C.Howe.
			ZINA HYDE, Ass’t Sec.


