LADIES' SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of Semi-monthly Meeting held
in Fourteenth Ward Assembly Hall, Dec.
28th, 1895. President M. I. Horne pre-
siding. Singing, “How firm a foundation.”
Prayer by Sister Frances Smith. Singing,
“Guide Us O, Thou Great Jehovah.”
The minutes of the previous meeting were
read and accepted.
	President Horne said she felt very thank-
ful to be here with her sisters at the close of
another year, said there were enough here
to claim the blessing, “That where a few 
are met together in my name there will I be
also.” Many have come here today for a
blessing and felt that each one would re-
ceive the comfort she needed. Exhorted
her sisters if any one had feelings against
another not to let it have place in her
heart, but let them all die with the old
year and commence again anew with the
new year. Would like to have all her
sisters read, Christ's sermon on the Mount
often. Pray continually for the Spirit of
God for that led into all truth; do not let
your talents lie dormant but seek them out,
referred to President Cannon’s sermon on
the same subject.  Spoke of obedience of
children to parents also obedience to the
Gospel; said teach children self sacrifice;
good Latter-day Saints were self-sacrificing:
felt we were in a more dangerous condition
now than ever before and that there were
more temptations abroad for the young;
spoke of virtue, said she heard President
Cannon say he did not believe in long
courtships for young people. Spoke of the
Prophet Joseph Smith and his wonderful 
work all accomplished in fourteen years.
His life was not one of peace but of turmoil,
spoke of her association with him.  Bore a
strong testimony. Prayed the Lord to
bless us and help us to do better in the
coming year.
	Sister Cutler, said she wanted to bear
her testimony to the goodness of God: also
that He heard and answered prayer. Said
she went to the dedication of the Temple
fasting and everything she asked the Lord
for that day had been given to her four-
fold.
	Sister E. S. Taylor said she came here
today rather hungry for a blessing and felt
sure she would receive it; she never en-
joyed a meeting more in her life than she
did the conference here two weeks ago, did
not know why unless it was that she felt
free from all responsibility and could settle
down for pure enjoyment. She loved to
hear her sisters testify of their association
with the prophets; the dearest thing on
earth to her was her association with her
aged sisters, those who had done so much
good and had had so much experience, felt
she ought to be a great deal better than she
was; spoke very beautifully of her friend-
ship with Sisters Marinda N. Hyde and S.
M. Heywood who had passed behind the
vail and of their noble lives and the
example they set. Said we could not be
thankful enough for the Gospel, felt there

