[Column 2]
of two men voting against this measure.
One will say I asked my wife and I voted
as she wanted me. When he makes up his
mind to vote against it he says my wife
wanted me to vote against it. But he does
not vote for it because his wife wants him
to vote for it. Now a man who votes
against it alwaye votes as his wife wants
him to, and when he votes in favor of it he
votes because his wife has no better judg-
ment. It is like the old.
‘you’ll be damned if you do, you’ll be damned
if you won’t and you’ll be damned if you
don’t and you’ll be damned anyway. It is
always the fault of the women somehow or
another. Just as long as we want the ballot
the men are dying to give it to us; they
don’t want to compel us to vote. They said
as soon as you bring in a petition showing
a majority of women in favor of suffrage,
we will grant your petition. So we wo-
men went out and got five thousand names
but they said that is not enough so the
next year we got ten thousand names
the next year we got twenty thousand
names they said “you are doing fine keep
right on” so the next year we went in
with fifty thousand names and they said:
“now ladies, that is very good but we
don’t know you want it yet but just as
soon as we know—and that is the way
they do it. Miss Anthony went to Mr.
Dana, the editor of the New York Sun,
and asked him to use his influence in be-
half of suffrage and he said: “My paper
is used in the interest of the people and
the people don’t want suffrage.” And Miss
Anthony said: “How do you know the
women don’t want suffrage?” She said
“How many women will have to ask for
it?” And he said he thought if 100,000
women asked for it, it would be sufficient,
but he said he didn’t think it was possi-
ble to get the names of 100,000 women in
the State of New York. Miss Anthony
said, if we only have time we will bring
in a million names. Mr. Dana simply
laughed and said: “Miss Anthony when
you bring in 100,000 names the Sun is
yours. So Miss Anthony went to work
and secured the names of 300,000 women
and enough names of men to make over
700,000, and 300,000 and more of them
were women, and when the Constitutional
Convention defeated Woman’s Suffrage
what do you suppose Mr. Dana had for an
editorial the next morning? It was headed
“When will the women of New York
vote?” and then the next paragraph read—
“Just as soon as they want to.” and Mr.
Dana went right back to that same old
chesnut, when the women want to vote
the men will readily grant them the ballot.
Mr. Dana knew he would not do it—
he knew he would give some excuse and
let it go. But we quarrel we women among
ourselves—we have nothing else to do.
if you will give us the ballot or some
interest in the question of silver and tariff
we will have something better to do. I
believe one of your good gentlemen said the
Board of Lady Managers at the World’s
Fair quarreled, but I don’t believe they
threw one of the women out of the window.
We do not deny the men ought not to vote
because the Men Managers quarreled and
they threw one of their own number through
the window. (Laughter.) Did we say the
men ought not to vote because two members
of the city Council of the City of Denver
had a pitched fight. Did we say the men
ought not to vote because the Governor of

[Column 3]
Arkansas wishing to chastise one of the
members of the Legislature expectorated in
his face. Because two members of the house
of Congress last winter thought they were
in a prize ring and flew at each other and it
took all the other members of congress to
hold on to their coat tails to keep them
apart, did we say men ought not to vote?
And did not some such occurrence occur in
the British Parliment not long ago. And
yet the men who did not engage in such
disgraceful scenes ought not to be disfran-
chised on account of them. Now why can’t
you have the same kind of charity for us.
Miss Anthony never had any fight with
anybody, and I don’t know that I have
ever had any.”


