LEAP YEAR FIGURES.

	GENERALLY the month of February has
only 28 days, but this year, as every leap
year, has an additional day. This is well
known, but the reasons for this arrange-
ment may not be equally clear to all.
	According to the ancient Roman calendar
the months should have 31 and 30 days al-
ternately, but as this made the year too
long, the last day of February, the month
whose days were dedicated to the god of
death, was cut off. But when the sixth
month of the year (our August) had been
dedicated to the Emperor Augustus, the
astronomers found it disrespectful to the
memory of that ruler that this month should
have a day less than the fifth month which
was named after Julius Caesar (July) and
they agreed to add a day to August, and
this was again taken from February, leav-
ing only twenty-eight days for that month.
	By this arrangement the year received
365 days, but the fact is that the earth is
not able to complete its revolution around
the sun in that time but needs 5 hours, 48
minutes and 56 seconds more. As it would
be exceedingly inconvenient, however, to
commence the year at any other hour than
the beginning of the day, it was agreed to
add a day to every fourth year. This
makes each year 365 days and six hours,
which is 11 minutes and 10 seconds too
long. The error is small, but in the course
of 400 years it will amount to about three
days, and these must be disposed of in
some manner. The pope Gregory XIII
after deep calculation found that the error
of the Julian calendar amounted in the
year 1582 to ten days, the vernal equinox
falling on the 11th instead of the 21st of
March, and as this caused much coufusion
in religious festivals, a correction was found
necessary. He therefore ordained that ten
days should be deducted from that year by
calling the 5th of October the 15th, and in
order to prevent a further recurrence of a
similar necessity it was further ordained
that every hundredth year (1800, 1900, etc.)
should not be a leap year, except every
fourth hundredth, beginning with the year
2000. It will therefore be seen that only
every fourth year ending a century is a
leap year, as commonly every fourth year
is. It is nevertheless quite a notable event
that an interval of eight years occurs be-
tween two leap years. Generations will
pass away before it happens the next time,
which will be the period between 2096 and
2104.
	Those who celebrate their birthday on
the 29th day of February should bear in
mind this year that they will not have
another chance in eight years. Ex.


LADY ABERDEEN is a constant attendant
on the sessions of Parliament in Ottawa.
	She occupies a place beside the Speaker
in the House of Commons.
	IT is stated by Rev. Dr. Kephart, of
Dayton, O., editor of the Religious Tele-
scope, the organ of the United Brethren in
Christ, that since 1889 that denomination,
numbering more than 233,000, has admitted
women delegates to its General Conference
and to all its conferences of less degree and
the doctor is happy to report that the inno-
vation works admirably. He also states
that for many years previous to 1889,
women were admitted to the ministry and
accorded ordination on the same terms pre-
scribed for men.


