IN THE INTEREST OF HEALTH.
From Woman's Tribune:– 
	HERE I send you another instance of
women being in advance of their brothers,
in care of the health of their families and the
public health.
	Several years since I was talking with a
business woman who, with her sisters, has
long conducted a millinery and also a dress-
making establishment. I had placed stress
upon the need of great care in the handling
of paper money, which passes through
"everybody’s" hands and wallets, and re-
marked that I frequently found it so objec-
tionable that I wrapped it in fine, clean
paper before placing it in my purse, and
added that it really needs disinfection. She
told me that for some years she had carbolic
acid in the till where the money is kept,
and thought they had really protected them-
selves from disease in this manner. Last
year I inquired of several bankers if they
used such precautions. Two of them re-
plied they had never done so, but the answer
from the last replying I send you.
	Dear Madam: Your note of the 19th inst.
is at hand. In reply, would say that we
have not made it a practice to disinfect
paper money or papers until recently. At
this time we consider the practice a protec-
tion to ourselves here in the bank and also
to the public at large. Respectfully yours,
	“CHARLES EMERSON, Ass’t Sec y.”
Cath. A. F. Stebbins, Detroit, Jan. 14, '96.


PERSONS sending twenty-cents to Harriet
Taylor Upton, at Hotel Arno, Washington,
D. C., will receive copies of the daily papers
for the week of the Convention.
MRS. DEBORAH REED, eighty-eight
yearsold,of Attleboro, Mass., voted “yes’’ on
the referendum. She writes to a grand-
niece in Oakland, Cal.: “It seems that
some women stand squarely in their own
light, and do not want their rights; so
those who do must wait awhile. Equal
suffrage will come sometime, though in the
not far distant future.”
THE social side of parliamentary life in
England, set forth by Mrs. Humphrey
Ward in her new novel in The Century,
“Sir George Tressady,” will be a revela-
tion to American readers. With the dinner
parties in Parliament Buildings and open-
air receptions on the Thames Embankment,
it presents a picturesque contrast to
American Congressional customs. 
QUEEN CHRISTINA of Spain has been
chosen arbitrator to settle a long standing
dispute over the boundary lines of Colum-
bia, Equador and Peru. This is the first
time in the history of the world that a wo-
man has been chosen to settle an inter-
national dispute. Her administration of
Spanish affairs has been characterized by
tact and statesman-like ability, controlled 
by high moral principle; and not the least
of her claims to admiration is the fact that
she has maintained peace in a country pro-
verbial for being in a state of constant un-
rest and turmoil. The peace, movement in
Europe has not yet evolved anything more
beautiful than the sentiment expressed by
Madame Potonie Pierre in the manifesto
sent by the French women to their sisters
of the German Peace Society: “The planet
is too small to permit of mankind destroy-
ing each other in any corner of it. — Wo-
man's voice.


