THREE QUARTERS OF A CENTURY.

	SOME of the sisters who have great love
for Sister Zina D. H. Young, and wishing
to manifest their appreciation of her labors
as a friend to humanity and a public ser-
vant, counseled together as to how they
could best express in a fitting manner the
esteem and respect of her associates on the
coming birthday which would complete her
seventy-fifth year—making the three quart-
ers of a century, which is a ripe age, and a
time, when one would no longer hesitate to
be called old, After careful thought it was
decided that as President of a great organi-
zation, the National Woman’s Relief So-
ciety, it might be appropriate to celebrate
by a meeting in every ward throughout the
organization. Accordingly this was decided
upon and letters were written to presiding
officers and some suggestions were made to
them as to the program of exercises.
	Meanwhile her children and intimate
friends planned a banquet in her honor to
be given on January 31, 1896, and the sis-
ters who are officers in the General and
Salt Lake Stake Boards of the several
Associations met and conferred together, as
to what should be done, and how to pro-
ceed. The matter was given serious atten-
tion and after many meetings of Commit-
tees the Hotel Templeton was agreed upon
as a suitable place and arrangements were
made to hold the banquet there. Commit-
tees were appointed to dispose of the work
and the affair was settled. Invitations were
circulated and every detail attended to as far
as possible. All these things were done with-
out the knowledge or consent of Sister Zina.
Souvenir cards were prepared, Sister Zina’s
picture in the left-hand corner—her name
and the dates 1821—1896—and a verse in-
scribed which spoke of her labors and vir-
tues.
	A saintly face, and a great mother heart,
	So rich in grace, and charily thou art, 
	That evermore our reverence shall be,
	A loving tribute to thy memory,
	E’en poets yet unborn shall sing thy fame,
	And future generations bless thy name.
	These cards represented the colors of the
Society which are in the banner, blue, white
and gold; cards white, edging and lettering
gold, ribbon with which it is tied blue. Mrs.
McCune with her usual generosity was on
hand with her carriage to convey eminent
guests. Sister Zina was brought from her
home into the parlors of the Templeton in-
to the midst of floral decorations and of

