ANNIVERSARY PARTY.

	On the morning of Sept. 1st, 1895, the
Saints of Farr West and many of the
realitives and friends of our worthy Bishop
W. F. McEntire and his estimable wife
met to celebrate the sixtieth birthday, also
their fortieth wedding anniversary; the
ward clerk had the bishop very busily en-
gaged in looking over the ward records,
and his wife was busy preparing dinner as
she had invited her family and some friends
to take dinner with them. While this was
going on the crowd met and formed in line,
headed by the band, next the Relief Society
then relatives and friends and marched to
their residence, the band struck up a lively
air which aroused all in the house, the
Bishop opened the door to see what it
meant, threw up his hands and exclaimed,
“I’ll surrender.” After the shaking of
hands all proceeded to the hall, where two
tables were spread full length of the hall,
loaded with the bounties of life, then the
worthy couple were presented each with a
beautiful rocking chair; also a handsome
photograph album, and were then seated at
the head of the tables, after all were seated
Brother Peter Slater read an orginal poem
composed by himself very applicable for the
occasion.
	After lunch was over, a program was
rendered, first being music from the band,
Hon. D. H. Peery next addressed the as-
sembly, said he was happy to meet with so
many of his old friends and acquaintances
on this happy occasion, congratulated the
Bishop and his wife, spoke of his long ac-
quaintance with them, and of their many
good traits of character, thanked the sisters
for the good dinner, also thanked the band
for the excellent music Ex. Bishop, P.
G. Taylor of Harrisville, said God bless
you all, spoke many words of praise in be-
half of our bishop and wife and many
words of encouragement to all.
	Our bishop then responded, thanked all
very kindly, said we are all brothers and
sisters in very deed, "my whole heart and
soul is poured out toward all. May God
bless you,  amen.” Music by the band,
song by Lucinda Stephenson, “Shall we
gather at the river.” Recitation by Mrs.
Heber Holland, Brother Jacob Thomas
thanked all, and hoped we might have
many more snch occasions, it was indeed a
beautiful day as the sun was shining
brightly and all went off as bright and de-
lightful as the day.
	MARY A. STEPHENSON, Prest.
	MELINDA J. RAWSON, Sec.
Farr West Jan. 18, 1896.


