WOMEN CAN HELP.
	IT appears very desirable that the women
of the State who are now invested with
equal civil and political rights with men,
should interest themselves in all public
questious and become acquainted with all
the conditions surrounding the people, or
those that are likely to be the result of any
further legislative enactments. The daily
papers furnish most of the minutes of the
Legislature in both houses, and also pro-
ceedings of the City Council, so that it is
comparatively an easy matter to read up
and become familiar with what these of-
ficial representatives are doing, for the
future welfare of the new commonwealth.
	But a better plan is to go into the Legis
lature as often as possible and listen and
give countenance to the work being ac-
complished, that is in keeping with all the


new conditions and, watch the various bills
introduced and be able to talk intelligently
about the action taken and whether it will
be favorable or unfavorable to the growth
and progress of the new State.
 It was anticipated that women would
occupy seats in the first Legislature of Utah
but being disappointed in this should not
make women indifferent as to the work be-
ing accomplished by men alone; and as
some recognition has been accorded in hav-
ing a woman occupy the position of Chief
Clerk of the Senate, it cannot be denied
some honor has been shown, and the fact
that a woman signed the official papers
that entitled the U. S. Senators from Utah to
seats in the Senate of the United States is
worthy of note and of record and is a mat-
ter of congratulation and of pride to all
women everywhere, who are working for
equal political privileges.
 There have been several bills introduced
into the House and Senate, that are quite
far-reaching and serious in their bearing
and consequences upon the community,
and although women are not permitted to
have a voice in the assembly they can be
heard before Committees to whom these
bills are referred, and they can influence
men perhaps by their persuasive eloquence,
or sound logic in private interviews with
members, and thus bring about desirable
results; changes or modifications in objec-
tionable measures.
 Certainly the presence of women in the
session of the Senate the day the bill for
the age of consent was passed, produced the
desired effect without the arguments being
raised that otherwise would have been
brought forward to lower the age.
 There are many reasons why women
should show themselves interested in the
Legislature, which should be apparent to
all who desire the future welfare and
prosperity of the people of the new state,
and these things should be made a study by
all thinking women who are looking to the
great future and expecting better laws, bet-
ter governments and better conditions for
the world of humanity.


