YEARS.

[Essex Telegraph, England, Jan. 4th,]
	THE year upon which we have just
entered is leap year, and the ladies who
feel disposed to avail themselves of the
traditional privilege that leap year confers
will do well to remember that the op-
portunity presented by 1896 will not recur
until 1904. For the next eight years the
“February days” of the old rhyme will be
“twenty-eight,” and there will be no day
added to make them twenty-nine. New-
comers into the world on the twenty-ninth
of next February will therefore, strictly
speaking, be unable to celebrate their birth-
day for eight years. Why is it that leap
year is thus about to take so long a leap?
Most of our readers, of course, know the
meaning of leap year. Our year represents
the period of 365 days occupied by the
earth in its mighty journey of six hundred
millions of miles round the sun. If the
journey were performed in exactly 365 days
there would be no leap year, but it occupies
a little longer, viz, five hours, 48 minutes,
56 seconds, or within 11 minutes, 14
seconds of a quarter of a day. In four
years these extras amount to about 23¼
hours, and, in order that the seasons may
not in course of time be put out of joint, a
whole day is added every fourth year to
February. This roughly balances mat-
ters. But when we thus add a
whole day and have only 23¼ hours to do
it with, it is obvious that we have gone too far.
Our account upon the bank of time is over-
drawn to the extent of 11 minutes, 14
seconds a year, or three-quarters of an hour
every four years, and at the end of 128
years we have in this way given to our past 
Februarys a whole day. At this rate we
should in 400 years be three days behind.
How are we to balance the account? It is
clear that if we go on adding a twenty-ninth
day of February every four years the
world will some day be celebrating its
Christmas under mid-summer skies. The
bnisness is thus managed. In three suc-
cessive century years, which would other-
wise be leap years, February has to do with-
out its twenty-ninth day. When the
fourth century year comes around it is
again leap year. Thus we take back every
400 years the three days we have been giv-
ing away to make up the “twenty-ninth”
days of February. The year 1900 is the
last of three successive centurial years with-
out a 29 day. The year 1600 was leap
year; 1700 and 1800 were not, nor will 1900
be. By this method the commencement of
the year will not vary more than one day
from its present place in 200 centuries.
even such a variation would tell in time,
but no doubt the beings who people the
world in that “dim and distant future”
will be equal to the occasion.


MISS JENNIE YOUNG, of Scotland, has
been in Mexico for some time, arranging
for the purchase of land for a large Scotch
colony, which, she intends soon to bring
over.
	THE SUPREME Court of Ohio, in the case
of Bird F. Mills vs. the Board of Elections,
decided on Feb. 8 that the statute giving
women the right to vote at school elections
is valid and constitutional.


