[Column 2] 
house ring with the best music of Hunts-
ville.
	After which meeting was called to order
by the chairman A. J. Anderson, music,
prayer by Counselor S. L. Peterson. Sing-
ing by the ward choir, after which a poem
composed by Sister Emma Peterson on
Statehood and the labors of the sisters, was
well rendered by her daughter Olivia.
Music by the guitar club. A speech was
then given by Lona Schada, on the labors
of the trustees expressing thankfulness for
the blessings of statehood and the privileges
of this beautiful house. A speech by Sister
Emma Burrows, she was glad to see this
day in celebrating the opening of this hall
for the benefit of all charitable purposes,
“for the poor ye shall always have,’’ said the
Savior; she never had had one doubt in re-
gard to the building of this house for she
fully realized it was all done under the in-
fluence and direction of the spirit, and
nothing but union of effort could have ac-
complished this work with so little means,
refered to the time of the laying of the
corner stone, by Apostle F. D. Richards the
prayer then offered, had been fulfilled, to
the satisfaction of those who were deeply
interested, namely the board of directors
and building committee; space will not per-
mit to tell of the unceasing labors of this
noble band of workers. Music and song by
the choir, after which President Tracy said
her heart was full of gratitude to God and
the brethren and sisters for this day. We
have labored so long who can doubt the
hand of God, scarcely any means to start
with, but here a little and there a little com-
bined labor under wise management and
we are here enjoying this day of freedom.
Music by the martial band. Speeches by
the committee of ladies and brethren. A
speech by Sister Hawkins, she was thank-
ful for this day and manifested her loyalty
and patriotism by proposing that three
cheers be offered in honor of the day, which
were given.
	Song by the young ladies; we trust at
the dedication of this building justice can
be done to all in the near future. Some
little expenses yet hang over it, success to
all such enterprises, all accomplished by
home made work.
	We remain your fellow laborers in the
Gospel.
			ELIZA A. TRACY, Prest.
			EMMA BURROWS, Secy.
Jan. 6, 1896.


