[Column 1]
In 1881 she visited relatives in New York
and Vermont and collected genealogical
records of her ancestry; and while away
often spoke in Sunday schools and temper-
ance meetings, and conversed with many
celebrated divines; attended the Woman’s
congress at Buffalo and a National Suffrage
Convention in New York city. Sister Zina
also assisted the Elders in organizing a
Relief Society at Cohoes, New York, dur-
ing that visit.
	In 1882, when the Deseret Hospital was
established, Sister Zina was chosen vice
president, and occupied the arduous position
for twelve years; the same year she attend-
ed the National Suffrage Convention in
Omaha, and visited relatives in St. Joseph,
Mo. At this convention she made the ac-
quaintance of several celebrated women,
May Wright Sewall, Phoebe Cousins, and
others, also Susan B. Anthony, whom she
had already met here on her first visit to
Utah in 1870, and afterwards in New
York. Sister Zina has continued her labors
among the people and in the house of the
Lord without ceasing year after year, and
thousands rise up and call her blessed. She
was for thirty years and even more, a dili-
gent Sunday school teacher.
	After the decease of Sister Eliza R. Snow
in December 1887, Sister Zina being her
first counselor, continued acting president
until April, 1888, when she was called by
President Wilford Woodruff and set apart
to preside over the Relief Society. In 1891,
the Relief Society became formally connect-
ed with the National Council of Women of
the United States, which entitles the presi-
dent to the position of vice-president in this
great council. In 1893, when the congress
of representative women from all the world
met in the Art Palace in Chicago at the
time of the World’s Fair, Mrs. Young was
present and had the privilege and the right
of taking part in the important proceedings.
She also held a meeting of the Relief Soci-
ety in one of the halls of the Art Palace,
which attracted much attention. At this
meeting Isabella Beecher Hooker, Elizabeth
Lisle Saxon and other celebrities were pre-
sent, and some of them requested the privi-
lege of speaking. On the Sunday follow-
ing at the services in the large hall, Mrs.
Young was seated upon the platform with
fourteen women ministers of different de-
nominations, conversing freely with them
after the service upon the principles of
our faith. She also attended the Congress of
Charities and Philanthropies, of which she is
vice-president. Mrs. Young’s labors have
been unceasing and though she has reached
such a great age, her usefulness is not dim-
nished, but increases as the field of her
labors widens out, and develops more and
more. Her entire time is given in the ser-
vice of the Lord, in the duties of her calling
in the Relief Society and to the ministra-
tions in the Temple, where she has been
called to preside over the sisters—a long and
a beautiful life, of which scarcely the bare
outlines are given here. Sister Zina is de-
cidedly, a woman of the people, beloved by
the Saints for her many excellent qualities,
her integrity to the Gospel and her abundant
charity.
	We have only spoken of Sister Zina here
as a public woman in the capacity of a
missionary laboring among the sisters, but
her home life has been equally exemplary
and successful. She is tender and motherly
in her nature, and though she has not had a
large family of her own (two sons and a

