[WomansExponent | Vol30 | 1901 | September | Issue: 4 | Title: Successful Celebration | Author: CHARITON P. FERRIN,]

SUCCESSFUL CELEBRATION.
	The Relief Society of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was or-
ganized on the 17th of March, 1842, by the
Prophet Joseph Smith. Of course this day
is remembered in a fitting manner by the
several branches of the society as each year
rolls around.
	To this rule, we are pleased to say, the
Relief Society of the Hamburg, Germany,
branch of the Church was no exception,
and accordingly had a program and enter-
tainment arranged to take place as a fitting
commemoration of the 59th anniversary of
its organization on the date above given,
and in the year of our Lord 1901. Sunday
falling on 17th of the month, and the regu-
lar meeting day of the members of the
society being Tuesday, it was decided to
hold the entertainment on the 19th instead
of the 17th.
	The Relief Society of Hamburg, like
most societies in the world, and away from
the bulk of the people of the Church, labor
under many unfavorable conditions and
disadvantages. None the less, in spite of
all opposition it has grown, through the
faithful work of its members to be the
largest Relief Society in Germany. The
society stands at present on a strong found-
ation, and has a very bright future before
it.
	On the occasion above mentioned the
guest of honor was our worthy sister, Lucy
B. Young, the president of all the societies
in Germany. It was indeed a great pleas-
ure both to Saints and Elders of the branch
to have Sister Young in their midst and en-
joy her company in a social as well as in
an official way.
	As before stated this concert was held to
celebrate the organization of the Relief
Society. It had also another object no less
worthy, which was to gather in old and
make new friends, that they might all hear
something of the message for which so
many of the Elders are now laboring to
promulgate in this and other fields.
	It was felt by those present that both
objects were admirably attained, particular-
ly the latter, inasmuch as there were a
large number of new friends present, some
of whom are now faithful members who then
visited the meeting for the first time
	The program as rendered was as follows;

[Column 2]
Song, “Tochter-Zions,” choir. Prayer,
the president Sister Eblers. “Song of the Re-
deemed,” choir. Speech, Conference
President C. P. Ferrin. Speech, Sister
Lucy B. Young, translated by Brother R.
P. Haag. Piano solo, Elder Spencer C.
Clawson., Jr. Tenor solo, “If thou didst
love me.” E. P. Ferrin. Violin solo, Frau
Salzuebrod. Speech, Brother R. T. Haag.
Song, “The Beautiful City, choir. Clos- 
ing prayer, First Counselor Marie Krain-
acke.
	The eighth number on the program was
rendered by a friend who is an accomplished
violinist. A hearty encore was tendered the
performer, to which she responded.
	At the close of the program the chairs in
the hall were quickly carried to an adjoin-
ing room and gave place to tables spread
with the dainty repast of “Mormon coffee,”
cakes and sandwiches. Those present
were not long in availing themselves of the
feast, and soon the sandwiches were but a
memory.
	The people did not vanish with the ban-
quet, however, but remained to hear a few
impromptu numbers from the choir and a 
few remarks by Brother R. T. Haag. The
early hour of one a. m. saw the last of the
guests under way for home and a good but
short night’s rest which it is hoped they all
enjoyed.
			CHARITON P. FERRIN,
					Per W. C. M. 
	Berlin, July 19, 1901.


