[Vol24 | September 1937 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Guide | Title: Lesson Department]

LESSON DEPARTMENT in the sight of God... And if it so be that you should labor all your days in crying repentance unto this people, and bring, save it be one soul unto me, how great shall be your joy with him in the kingdom of my father!' So we must conclude that if Christ's teaching means anything at all, if the souls of men are worth so much to God, and if God wants us to be His real sons and daughters, ?it logically follows that man must exhibit that same kind of unselfish love toward his brethren that God displays toward him.
This is the essence of brotherhood. Questions 1.
What advances in our material culture have made it more possible than ever to practically demonstrate world brotherhood?
What is your estimate of the way in which we are taking advantage of them? 2. Has the idea of a world brotherhood made many gains as a result of the World War? 3. How do you think Christ would 599 view the common slogan to the effect that "Large armies and navies will keep us out of war?" (See Doctrine and Covenants 98:15, 16.) 4. In what ways can our missionary system help advance world brotherhood? 5.
What problems.
Have you in your community that the Relief Society and priesthood quorums could solve and thus demonstrate a real sense of brotherhood? Problems Treat only those that time and circumstances will permit. 1. Ask the superintendent of schools in your district to give you some facts relative to remedial physical defects among the school children. In the light of our lesson what is the duty of your community? 2. In the face of Christ's declaration about the brotherhood of men, explain Matthew 15:24; compare Matthew 10:5, 6. Teacher's Topic OPTIMISM OF JESUS "Nothing can replace in our spiritual lives the constant perusal of the Gospels with a view to treasure up the character traits of the Son of God that we may pattern after Him." "Who is he that overcometh the world but he that believeth that Jesus is the Son of God." "How good is man's life, the mere living! How fit to employ; All the heart and the soul and the senses Forever in joy!" ?Browning. "Optimism compels the world forward and gives to men the incentive to fight with circumstance. ?It is faith that leads to achievement; it is confidence in the present and hope for the future." OFTEN we class as an optimist one who lives with the delusion that no matter what he or any one else does, everything is certain to come out all right in the end.
This is a cheap sort of optimism and is the product of a "shallow brain and stupid heart."
Many individuals there are who take refuge from the realities of 600 life in dreams of good and call themselves optimists.
Optimism of this sort is like a house built upon the sand. Then, there is a dangerous optimism of ignorance and indifference where a hopeful outlook upon life is maintained by refusing to know and to see; where evil is ignored and only the good contemplated. How poor, how undesirable this is! The optimism to be admired and desired is that which rests on a glad belief in the final predominance of good and a willing desire to co-operate with the good that it may prevail.
Genuine optimism does not deny the existence of evil, it does not refuse to look at the world's woes, it recognizes the reality and gravity of life, accepting it as something valuable, looking forward with faith and confidence in the power to resist, to change, to meet courageously and to conquer. It does not build cloud castles of happiness but sees life as stern yet worthy, and maintains a hopeful outlook.
Real optimism is neither unwilling to face disagreeable facts nor disposed to be daunted by them, however stubborn they may be.
Dark things are but a "halt on the way to good."
Optimists of this type are not easily discouraged or argued into hopelessness.
They face the future with bright anticipation and with confidence in the present and hope for the future.
They see the best in everything and everyone and make that best a part of themselves. The element of optimism in Christ's life was immensely preponderant. He came as a prophet of good with a message of hope. He was not blind to the evils, the sorrows and heart breaks of the world. He was acquainted with RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE suffering. He knew the strength required to grapple with and resist evil. He knew the dark and the bright sides of life and he was never daunted. He constantly exhorted mankind, "Be of good cheer." He comforted his disciples against tribulation with a hopeful outlook. "These things I have spoken unto you, that in me ye might have peace. In the world ye shall have tribulation: but be of good cheer; I have overcome the world."
Jesus had an abiding faith and confidence in God and taught men to have likewise. He exhorted his disciples, "Have faith in God."
This is the secret of real optimism. He who has faith in his Heavenly Father and makes a friend of him, straightway feels glad, brave, and ready for any lot.
Jesus had an unswerving confidence in man. The Gospels are rich with illustrations. He had confidence in Zacchaeus to repent.
Zacchaeus was a rich man, chief among the publicans. When Jesus went to his home the people murmured, saying that he was gone to be guest with a man that is a sinner. And Zacchaeus stood, and said unto the Lord: Behold, Lord, the half of my goods I give to the poor; and if I have taken anything from any man by false accusation I restore him fourfold. And Jesus said unto him, "This day is salvation come to this house."
Most mistreated of all men the Master evidenced always faith in human nature.
When he saw that men were determined to take his life he said, "If I be lifted up I will draw all men unto me! He felt that no matter what cruel things human nature might be guilty of, there was after all, down LESSON DEPARTMENT deep in the heart, that which would respond to forgiveness and love." The New Testament though telling us a heart breaking story does not depress us. Its message is of hope, it breathes always, "Be of good cheer." The L. D. S.
Religion keeps optimism alive. The confidence and trust which springs from our beliefs makes optimists of us. It gives us a basic confidence in the good destiny of life.
Sometimes we become discouraged and ready to falter. In the midst of such feelings we should study the character of the Master. We must maintain confidence in self, in mankind, in life and faith in God. 601
Disheartening though things may be at times we must "Be of good cheer." References:?Character of Jesus ?Jefferson; John 16:33; Mark 11:22; Luke 19:1-10; John 12:32. Questions 1. Why is optimism that refuses to face realities of life like "a house built upon the sand'? 2. Why is it a dangerous optimism to contemplate only the good? 3.
What effect does a study of the life of Christ have upon your optimism? 4, Why may Helen Keller, Jane Addams, Abraham Lincoln be classed as great optimists?