[Vol24 | September 1937 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Article | Title: Some Helpful Suggestions]
Some Helpful Suggestions
MRS. EFFIE S. BARROWS of the Utah Agricultural College in speaking to Work and Business leaders of Relief Society in Provo gave some most helpful suggestions, which, if carried out, will contribute to the success of this day in our organization. The first thing she emphasized was punctuality?start and stop on time. Second, orderly surroundings. Do not have a blackboard with a lot of writing on it before the people so they will look and be wondering when the inscription on it was used and what it was for. Do not have a lot of handwork heaped up on the table. People will wonder when you are going to show it and that it will take too long if you are going to talk about all of it. If you are going to have an exhibit of work, have it in a different room than the lecture hall. Third, familiarity with the subject, know what you are going to say and be converted to it. Fourth, be sure the things you teach will be useful in the home. She urged that less fine stitching be put on quilts that are for warmth. She said that when they are so closely stitched they are compressed together so that there is less warmth in them. Fifth, tell what you are going to tell them, tell or develop it, and tell what you have told them. Sixth, have something to show or illustrate what you are emphasizing, but do not pass it around while you are giving your talk, otherwise you lose your people. Seventh, do not attempt to do too much at one session. Leave the group feeling that the subject has not been exhausted. She urged that each kitchen have a rest and business center, or a home brain center. She demonstrated how feasible this is in practically every kitchen. Packing boxes may be made into a desk, or if there isn't room for this, a board with hinges that can be raised and lowered may be used. Then women could have their writing material in the kitchen and could watch the cooking. This would save much burning, and many more things could thus be accomplished. She pointed out the desirability of having a telephone, a little radio and a clock on this desk.
Lesson Department
Theology and Testimony Lesson III
A SUPREME RULE OF LIFE?THE LAW OF BROTHERHOOD
Helpful References In the New Testament?Matthew 5:39-48; 6:1-4; 7:1-5, 12; 9:10-13; 18:1-15, 21-35; 22:35-39; 23:1-12; Mark 8:36, 37; Luke 10:29-36; 15; Romans 12:10-21; James 1:27. In the Book of Mormon?Mosiah 2:12-19; 4:13-30. In the Doctrine and Covenants?Sec. 4:3-6; 38:24, 25, 34, 35. Smith?Gospel Doctrine, Chapter 18. Talmage?Articles of Faith, Chapter 24. Rall?The Teachings of Jesus, Chapters 10, 11.
1. The Law of Brotherhood One of the Supreme Values?In Christ's day as in our own?in fact in every age of the world, men have asked what the largest and greatest things are, whether physical or spiritual. We are prone to ask which is the highest mountain, the tallest building, the longest bridge, and what not. Similarly, in the realm of spiritual values we ask which are greatest. In this lesson it is our purpose to examine Christ's teaching respecting the supreme value of the brotherhood of man.
