[Vol24 | September 1937 | Sequence: 26 | Category: Literature | Title: Literature for Missions - Typical Women of the Church: Magdalena Straublhaar Schwendiman]

Literature for Missions
TYPICAL WOMEN OF THE CHURCH
MAGDALENA STRAUBLHAAR SCHWENDIMAN
Born in Switzerland

LET us go again to the continent of Europe for the subject of this lesson. Out of the thousands of lives found there suitable for our purpose we have chosen that of Magdalena Straublhaar Schwendiman. Switzerland was her native land, and she first saw light in a humble home nestled in the shadows of the mighty Alps and amid some of the most attractive natural scenery found out-of-doors in a little mountain village. It was October 11, 1845, that her mother gave her birth. Her father had previously died, and before long her mother did also, leaving the little girl to the care of relatives.

This position of dependency she began to sense and wanted to overcome as soon as possible. Thus she early exhibited the quality of self-reliance that was later so helpful to her. She soon obtained employment in a high-class tourist resort, an attractive hotel situated near the top of a mountain. Here she met many people from all parts of the world and made many friends. Her pleasing personality attracted their attention and many of them corresponded with her for years afterward. Her influence radiated a warmth and kindness to all whom she met, and they said to know her was to love her.

She was religiously inclined from birth, believed in prayer and had an abiding faith in the divine guidance of our Heavenly Father. To Him were attributed all her successes and achievements and good fortune through life. She had many offers to marry in wealth and luxury, but her ambition was not for wealth. She preferred and longed for a humble and wholesome home in which to rear a family, and a life's companion who did not use liquor nor tobacco. Young men of this type were very few at that time. But she became acquainted with one such, Samuel Schwendiman. Their ideals were much alike and their early friendship developed in later years into love. In 1871 they were married, and to this happy union six sons were born by the year 1884.

The wife realized her responsibility and was indeed an ideal mother. Her greatest desire was to see her sons grow up to be honorable and useful men. She endured many hardships and made many sacrifices, but it was all a privilege to her. Her whole life was given in service to her family and her friends. She was a natural leader and many were made happier by following her teaching and example. Her home was ruled by love and kindness and her wishes were readily carried out, because they were always reasonable, true and right. She was very fond of quoting bits of poetry, and the following is one of her favorites which portrays her noble ideals:

"Live always true and right, from the cradle to the grave,
And never swerve a finger's width from the ways that God us gave."

It was in 1884 that the family first heard the sound of the true Gospel from the lips of two Mormon Elders. Having read the scriptures they soon discovered the follies in the teachings of the church to which they had belonged. They welcomed and readily accepted the true Gospel message. They were eager to be baptized, the ordinance taking place secretly before daylight on one of the coldest nights of the Winter, January 23. The snow was deep, and they had to walk a long distance through it to a stream. Here they had to break ice two feet thick to reach the water in which to be immersed.

When the news of the baptism got out there was considerable excitement among their friends and relatives. They noticed that the time for sprinkling the youngest son had passed and nothing was being done about it, and they really believed that the poor babe would be damned and lost forever. As is often the case, the mother got most of the blame for this imaginary neglect. Even her nearest friends turned against her, and what was a severe trial, her father's relatives accused her for leading him astray in joining the hated Mormons. But in reply she quoted scripture and preached to them. A few of them finally accepted the Gospel. Many times she was warned not to entertain the Elders, but she had implicit faith that the Lord would protect them from serious trouble, and continued to invite them, for she always felt that all she did for them she did unto the Lord.

Many unpleasant situations arose and while persecution was not severe the majority of their former friends now looked upon the Schwendimans as deserters of the faith of the protestant church. About two years after accepting the true Gospel an urgent desire came upon them to emigrate to the Rocky Mountains where holy Temples were being erected and where the family could be sealed together for time and eternity. Disposing of their belongings involved much sacrifice, but by May 1886 all were ready for the journey to America. Again the mother was blamed for this move, which neighbors and relatives thought a most absurd thing, leaving a comfortable home, going instead to a strange land among strange people. They told her that her little babe would never survive the hard trip, but he did.

They crossed the Atlantic in an old steamship which sank on its return trip. The family went to Idaho because of missionary acquaintances, settling in Paris, Bear Lake County, the latter part of June. The country at that time was uninviting compared with Switzerland. The first few years were nothing but trials and hardships. However, the parents were never discouraged. At the first opportunity they went to the Logan Temple where they were sealed together for time and eternity.