[Vol24 | September 1937 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: The Next Coulam]
(To be Continued) THE NEXT HILL By Ella J. Coulam I go in search of Autumn leaves All crimson, mauve, and gold; I climb the little winding trail More beauty to behold. Each turn reveals more splendor, As on and on I go, For always over the next hill The choicest leaves will grow. How Do We Know?
By Nephi Jensen Nineteenth Century one of the popular subjects of discussion among the intelligentia was the question of spontaneous generation of life.
Does life originate in lifeless substance?
Does life come from the lifeless? For several decades these interesting questions challenged the thought of profound thinkers and eminent scholars.
Surface indications seemed to favor the advocates of spontaneous generation. On every hand it was observed that worms, maggots, and flies came into life in multitudinous swarms, in decaying vegetables and fruits and in decaying flesh.
Whence came these multiforms of living things?
From lifeless substance, said the adherents of the theory that life comes from the non-living. IN the fifties and sixties of the FOR a time practically all scientists fell in with this view.
About this time there was living in France a young ambitious scientist who was destined to immortal fame. He was inclined to question the theory of.
Spontaneous generation. His name is Pasteur. He commenced to surmise that the maggots that suddenly commenced to develop in decaying flesh might be the result of germinal life coming into contact with the decomposing flesh. At that time nothing was known of micro-organisms. Pasteur's faint surmise led him to make some very simple experiments. For example, he placed pieces of meat in a jar and covered the opening with closely knit gauze. He observed that no animal life developed inside the jar; but that lusty wiggling things appeared outside of the gauze. The conclusion was forced upon the young experimenter that there must be infinitesimal life germs floating about in the air; and that it was because these microbes come into contact with substance in which they can breed, that new visible life forms result.: Through long tedious persistent and industrious years he continued his indefatigable experiments. In time he discovered the bacteriological theory of disease.
