[Vol24 | September 1937 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: Where the Virgin Hall]

Utah Becomes Art Conscious By Ruth Grant RIGHAM YOUNG once said, B "If I were placed upon a cannibal island and given the task of civilizing its inhabitants, I would straightway build a theatre." He might just as easily have said, "A music hall or an art gallery," for he realized fully that the highest type of civilization finds expression in such fruits of the fine arts as come from an appreciation of the best in drama, literature, music and painting. The people of Utah are "art conscious" to rather a high degree— and they should be.
Perhaps they should be much more than they are considering their heritage from the past and the inspiration which should come from such beautiful surroundings. ROM the very first day that the pioneers entered the valley and gazed upon the gray and purple of its sagebrush stretches they were taught that, "Man does not live by bread alone," although, at that time, the struggle for bread was enough to test the mettle of the most valiant of the band. In spite of all hardships, the leader insisted that the seeking after the artistic and spiritual things of life must be a daily part of the lives of these strugglers. Two brass bands were included in the first companies to leave Illinois on the westward trek and, no matter how footsore and weary the people might be after trudging all day over the trackless plains, the.
Evenings were spent in song and dance around the campfire, providing conditions were at all favorable.
Thus was implanted in their hearts, along with the need for the preservation of the body, a desire for the expression of the soul. The missionary system of the Church also played an important part in laying a foundation for artistic effort and appreciation among its people by bringing as converts splendid artists in various lines from all parts of the world. By this means from Australia came Ridges, the organ builder; from Wales, Giles, the blind harpist, and from other countries the painters Weggeland, Ottinger and Hafen.
Utah drew these artists here because her rugged barriers constituted a haven of refuge from religious intolerance and then, having brought them here, offered for their inspiration scenery with beauty unparalleled in the entire world.
Gigantic canyons with granite rocks and ledges topped by green pines, Rae mountains whose color and imagery defy exaggeration, deserts that are brilliant and harsh in the noonday sun or soft and hazy in the mauve of evening and sunsets that are miracles of beauty.
Every road leads toa new vista of loveliness.
Every hour of the day changes the mood of the landscape with a turn of nature's kaleidoscope. AND what have the people of the state done to carry on the splendid work begun by those pioneer artists?
What use have they made of the magnificent natural beauties which surround them?