are some most excellent people in that part
of the vineyard and it seems to me there is
a great work to be done; there are also
laboring among them, some of the most
noble of Zion’s sons, faithful and true as
usual. The new meeting house which was
dedicated on Sabbath afternoon, Sept. 8th,
is a monument of their usefulness, not only
spiritually but also physically, to these
young Elders who laid off their coats and
put on over-alls and erected it, will the
blessings be ascribed! We had a most ex-
cellent conference which has been written
up to several of the papers also lectures
and concerts in the evening, (occupying all
the time) in which the talent of our boys
as well as some of our sisters were made
manifest; being given on such short notice
there was no time for preparation, two of
our Elders being ill with chills and fever
(which is very prevalent in these parts) and
another one being taken ill was the only
drawback to our pleasure; but these were
all made better by the blessings of the
Lord, for which we felt to praise His holy
name. Wednesday evening we called on
Mr. Pinkerton the leader of one of the
off-shoots of the true Church (from him have
also dissented several others,) we had a
pleasant chat but while conversing with
him I could not help but draw the compari-
son between our own revered President W.
Woodruff and him, also Presidents Young
and Taylor. Poor old man there he is left
with but a few, yet he feels that he is right.
	Thursday 12th, 6 a. m. we took an
affectionate farewell of our friends in St.
John and proceeded on to Kansas City,
where we sojourned for a time, then took
train for Independence twelve miles, where
we arrived 6-30 p. m.; being very weary
we felt thankful for a night's rest, but alas!
the weather was so oppressive that the rest
was not what we desired. Next day 13th,
three of our Elders having met us we all
visited the Temple Block there we remained
for some time; holding converse, also in-
voking Divine protection to continue with
it, having spent a very happy time, we
visited other places of interest then went on
to Kansas City, visited some time with our
boys, then bade them God speed invoking
divine blessings to rest upon them in con-
nection with all the rest, these having been
assigned to labor in the Indian Territory.
We again returned to Independence, next
morning, 14th, we visited Mr. Hill, the
President of the Hedrickite Church, had
a very pleasant conversation, took leave
then repaired to the magnificent Court-
house visited there, ascended to the top,
whence we took a grand view of the sur-
rounding country, which certainly is very
beautiful we again took train for Kansas
City where we took train for Cameron ar-
riving there at 9 a. m., after a refreshing
night’s rest, next day, 15th, we took con-

[Column 3]
veyance for Far West where we spent, a
most interesting time though very seriously
reflecting upon scenes of the past, we also
called on Mr. Whitmer, a nephew of David
Whitmer whose uncle was one of the three
witnesses, to the Book of Mormon, who
received us very kindly, himself and wife,
showing us their lovely home and surround-
ings; our visit over we returned to Camer-
on, where we took train for Galletin, arriv-
ing there 9 p. m., next day 16th, we again
took conveyance, visit Mill Port, then pro-
ceed on to Adam-ondi-ahman. Dear sis-
ters could any one ever understand the feel-
ings that we experienced while visiting
these waste places of Zion; it is easier
imagined than expressed, at this place we
spent several hours meditating and pray-
ing, etc. Returning next morning, 17th,
6 a. m. we again take train for Cameron,
arriving 7-30 a. m. and at 8-30 a. m. we
take a very reluctant leave of our dear
friends; our party having dwindled away
until there were left but two of us; how-
ever we proceeded on our journey, taking
train 9-30 for Brekenridge, arriving there
11 a.m. again taking conveyance for
Haun’s Mill, but alas! every souvenir of
the sacred spot is almost extinct; a place
made sacred because of seventeen precious
lives, having been sacrificed there; then the
remains buried in a well. O, the anguish
of my soul while walking over that sacred
spot remembering the widows and father-
less, they have done all in their power to
obliterate every recognition of the place;
Mr. Stevenson having visited it seven
years ago, could tell by measurement; they
have ploughed the ground and planted corn
which stands from 15 to 20 feet high, so
that a stranger could not possibly tell where
the Black Smith Shop once stood; we, how-
ever, by seeking carefully, found cinders
mixed in with the soil, where the chimney
had been; the people in that neighborhood
do not like to speak on that subject, several
expressed themselves as its being a most
terrible affair and should rather never again
hear it mentioned; we returned to Breken-
ridge where we took evening train for
Montrose via Quincy, arriving. 6-30 a. m.
and reaching Montrose 10-45 a. m., 18th.
However long before arriving I discovered
(from the car windows) that once beautiful
city of Nauvoo, then so dear to the Saints;
on arriving we looked around Montrose;
there stood the steamboat “City of Nauvoo”
ready to ferry us over the Mississippi River
which of itself was quite an item to me.
	After landing we took conveyance, rode
around for some time looking at the city;
well, dear reader, accompany me for the
rest of the day if you can, more especially
in the afternoon while walking about;
many times when reading or hearing about
Nauvoo, have I wished in my heart that I
could visit that sacred spot of Earth, but
never for one moment did I indulge the
hope of really seeing it, but here I am
verily walking those very identical streets
that our beloved Prophet and Patriarch
while in life walked so many, many times;
the emotions of my soul I never could
describe, was it a reality or was it a dream?


