[Column 2]
accident of young Lord Walton, the father
of Sir Edward’s grand-children. He was
thrown from his horse, and instantly
killed, while out hunting, not many weeks
after the arrival of Mrs. Harrison and fam-
ly, and as no will had been made, and the
children were left orphans the law had to
be appealed to; Mrs. Walton, not caring
to take any individual responsibility, though
she was not averse to doing her duty as
step-mother. Mrs. Harrison the nearest
relative urged her claim, and succeeded
after much tedious intercession in getting
it recognized.
	The climate of England, though native
to Major Harrison did not agree with him,
he had endured much hardship and fatigue
during the war in America, and almost im-
perceptibly his health began to fail. He
was loath to think so, and would not admit
it even to Sidney, who was the first to
notice the change, and to urge the need of
seeing a physician at once. The Major
would not listen to it, but argued he would
be all right as soon as he went aboard the
ship to return. Sidney did not dare tell
his aunt how alarmed he felt about his
uncle’s condition, and therefore she was
totally unprepared when the crisis came,
suddenly, without any previous warning.
Major Harrison spent much of his time
out of doors, on horseback, or reading and
wandering about under the grand old trees
in the magnificent grounds around the old-
fashioned dwelling. Sitting as usual, book
in hand, with head thrown back, after his
usual manner, one afternoon in the late
Autumn, one would have thought him
resting peacefully, and so no doubt he was;
’twas thus he was discovered by Sidney, who
had come out to call his uncle to dinner;
judge his amazement, and horror, to find
he had fallen asleep in death. In a few
seconds the whole household were gathered
round; a few rods away in the former home
of Dr. Bland, a young Doctor lived, who
came without a moment’s delay, a messen-
ger was dispatched in hot haste for another,
and meantime all the restoratives known to
science were used without effect. Discon-
solate will scarcely apply to the woman,
bereft as Mrs. Harrison was of one she held
dearer than her own life. No one ventured
even to try to comfort her; she was utterly
left alone; Sidney feared her mind would
give way, under such heavy pressure, yet
he dared not say more than the common-
place words which his profession as a min-
ster warranted. But he took charge of the,
children, just as he felt his aunt would
direct, were she sufficiently composed to
give advice in the matter. The great tree
had fallen, and Jane Harrison remembered
the dream and the warning.
	So many changes had come to Mrs. Har-
rison in a short period of time that it is
strange she could control her emotions, so
as to attend to the children after a few days,
and maintain the dignity of her position as
the only near relative of these orphaned
little ones. She was indeed a woman of
remarkable fortitude to bear up under such
an accumulation of trials and bereavements.
She was clearer-headed than any of the
lawyers and knew by intuition the best
course to take, and decided quietly and
without hesitation.
	“I shall remain here, at the castle, until
matters are properly adjusted” she said to
Sidney, some weeks after the terrible blow 
had fallen, “I am sure it would be my
uncle’s wish, and your uncle Robert would


