[Column 1]
expect it of me too, and when my cousin’s
affairs are made right and the Walton mat-
ters fixed, so we may know what to expect
from that, I shall sail for America taking
with me all the children and nevermore re-
turn here, much as I love the green fields
of my native land.”
	‘‘And am I to be banished Aunt Jane
(Mrs. Harrison,”) said Sidney, in his most
sympathetic voice. “Have I no part nor
lot in this matter, may I not be a part of the
household still? Will you not need some
one to manage such large estates and teach
the boys, prepare them for college and ren-
der some assistance in the arduous labor of
guardianship; even though I may never
again pursue my calling in the ministry.”
	For a few minutes Mrs. Harrison was like
one bereft of her reason, she could not
speak, it was as if a tempest shook her
whole frame and Sidney chided himself in-
wardly for having spoken “Dear Aunt
Jane” he said, “let me stay with you, I will
give up all else for the children’s sake, I
will be a brother to you, now you are left so
lonely, do not shut me out of your life, you
must have need of some one in whom you
can place confidence, I am sure my uncle
would approve of it, and I should be most
happy to serve you, let us understand each
other, shall it be so?”
	Mrs. Harrison acquiesced almost without
words, but Sidney understood and remained
by her through all the days of trial and
final settlements. Sometimes she seemed
so crushed in spirit, it was like a cloud hid-
ing all light from view, all was darkness,
and had it not been for the extra exertion
she was compelled to make for the children’s
sake the consequences might have been
fatal to her reason, or her health, or both;
as it was, she nerved herself for the battle,
and fought it through bravely, never
shrinking though pierced to the heart’s core
often.
	Seldom has it fallen to the lot of one
woman to be left with so many dependent
little ones of different parentage, her own-
two children Conway and Clarice had
separate property rights, then Anna’s
children were heirs in the Hilliard estate
as well as the Walton property, and Clair’s
boy was Edward Hilliard, bearing the name
and inheriting the title of his grandfather.
	A curious complication in one family,
and what the future was to be, even Jane
Harrison with all her foresightedness could
not tell.
	After many weary months which
dragged slowly by notwithstanding the
press of business which occupied the entire
time of both Mrs. Harrison and Sidney, as
well as men learned in the law (and after
many small legacies to relatives far removed
had been settled upon) and gifts bestowed
upon old servants and retainers, the castle
and estates were leased, and as they could
not persuade Maitland’s widow to leave
England, they took an affectionate leave of
her and embarked once more for America.
How changed was everything on their
arrival; how different and how sad the
places seemed, where so much happiness
had been enjoyed. It was hard too to meet
the former friends and neighbors and re-
ceive their expressions of kindly, well-
meant sympathy, which opened anew the
fountains of grief, hard to control when
once aroused.
	Mrs. Harrison interested herself in every-
thing which concerned the children and
watched their progress as though they were
all her very own and they grew up together

