[Column 1]
reformation was far deeper than it appeared
on the outside, that their true work was in
restoring our political principle to its true
basis. (Applause.)
	Miss Anthony:—Last February we held
our first National Conference south of the
Mason and Dixon line and when the wo-
men from Alabama, Florida and Georgia
were introduced to the audience I was com-
pelled to say that the southern women were
truly born orators and speakers and I begin
to think the women of Utah are born ora-
tors and speakers as well as the southern
women.
	Mrs. Joannah Melton President of the
G. A. R. Relief Society was introduced by
Miss Anthony.
	REMARKS BY MRS. MELTON.
At the last moment your chairman has
invited me to say a word of welcome to our
guests Miss Anthony and Miss Shaw which
I feel very much pleased to do. Twenty-
six years ago; I am not going to say as long
as I live for I don’t want to tell you that,
but 26 years ago in the City of Lafayette.
Indiana, there were posters all over the city
that Miss Susan B. Anthony and Mrs.
Elizabeth Cady Stanton would appear at the
Opera House. Of course the women of the
city were very much interested and we all
asked what kind of women they were.
Some of the gentlemen said “Now don’t
you go to that Opera House to hear those
women,’’ “Why, what is the reason?
Why should’nt we go and hear those wo-
men, are they not women?’’ “Yes, but
they are men women” (laughter) and I was
a little bit doubtful about going but I said
to myself: “Well, I won’t believe anything
until I see it and I am going to see what
kind of a woman a man woman is”
(laughter) So I went to the Opera House
and I saw women that I only wished that I
could be just like them, they were so
modest and motherly and kind and charm-
ing in their speeches and their conversation
that I was converted then and there before
I left the Opera House and I thought that
Woman’s Suffrage was just right. About
ten years ago I received a letter from Miss
Anthony telling me that she had heard of
me through some friends asking me to take
up the work in the Dakotas’. It seemed a
very hard thing to do in those two states
then because they were divided, but we
succeeded during the little while we worked.
	We were encouraged in our work but it
was just the same as it is here a great many
of the women had a great many arguments
against Woman Suffrage. Since coming
here six years ago I have watched the wo-
men here very closely and I see you have
some very able women and especially this
little woman (alluding to Mrs. Wells) seems
to be a bundle of executive power and she
has a good corps behind her and I knew the
suffrage question was safe in their hands.
I have done all the work I could but you
know the opposition which women are re-
ceiving at this present time and mostly
from the men. It was my privilege to be
invited to a home to meet some of our
Scotch delegates that were here at the Con-
vention, and there were five or six present
and several ladies, some with their wives.
One woman came in and said, “Well, I
suppose you gentlemen voted for us?” One
gentleman replied “You hit me hard!” and
I knew from that that he must have done it
and voted the other way. The lady re-
plied: “Oh, the women have shown to the

