UTAH W. S. A.
	AN executive meeting of the Utah Ter-
ritorial W. S. A. was held Oct 7th, 1895,
10 a. m. in the Fourteenth Ward Hall.
Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beattie presiding, prayer
by Mrs. Mary Ann Hyde of Sanpete Co.
The secretary read the call, the minutes of
the last Annual Executive session and let-
ters from Miss Susan B. Anthony. The
treasurer read her report naming the amount
of fees received from the counties, and the
amount disbursed. The reports of the
secretary and treasurer were accepted. Mrs.
Wells stated that as suffrage was virtually
obtained in Utah, she wished to hear the
sentiment of the members in respect to the
continuation of suffrage associations.
Several ladies responded. All favored the
existence of suffrage clubs in the future.
They thought it the duty of all to work for
the enfranchisement of women until universal
suffrage should be obtained.
	The motion by Dr. E. B. Ferguson to
maintain suffrage as a state Association was
unanimously adopted. The officers for the
ensuing year were nominated to be pre-
sented to the general convention convening
at 2. p. m. Adjournment.
	The Annual Convention of the Territorial
W. S. A. was held Oct. 7, 1895, at 2 p. m.
in the Fourteenth Ward Hall. Mrs. Em-


meline B. Wells presiding. Singing
“Columbia’s Daughters.” Prayer by
Bishop Adams of Iron Co. Singing,
“New America.” The election of officers
was as follows, Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells,
President; Mrs. Emily S. Richards, Vice
President at Large; Mrs. Electa Bullock,
Provo, Second Vice President; Mrs. Lucy
A. Clark, Davis, Third Vice President;
Mary A. White, of Beaver, Fourth Vice
President. Mrs. Margaret Caine, Record-
ing Secretary; Mrs. Augusta Grant, Corres-
ponding Secretary; Mrs. Ella W. Hyde,
Treasurer. Phoebe Y. Beattie, Chairman
of the Executive Committee. Ruth M.
Fox, Elizabeth Price, Mary P. Silver,
Elizabeth McCune, Elizabeth McFarlane,
all of Salt Lake. Kate Hilliard, Weber;
Sarah A. Boyer, Springville, Utah; Alvira
L. Cox, Manti, Sanpete Co. Vina Tingy,
Juab; Elizabeth Wright, Cache; Joanna
Patten, Provo, Utah Co. Esther Francis,
Morgan, Morgan Co; Maria Miller Johnson,
Circleville, Piute Co. Eugenie Pierce,
Box Elder, Members of the Executive
Committee.
	The President called for reports from the
County Organizations, which were thus
represented, Mrs. M. A. White reported
Beaver Co. Organization; Mrs. Paulina
Lyman, Iron Co; Mrs. Lucy A. Clark,
Davis; Mrs. Ruth M. Fox, Salt Lake; Mrs.
Hannah Lapish, American Fork of Utah
Co.; Mrs. Helena Madsen, Manti, of
Sanpete Co. Mrs. S. M. Kimball, Honor-
ary President, offered this resolution to the
Constitutional Convention, “I wish to
move that we in convention assembled ex-
press our grateful appreciation of the gen-
erous and earnest efforts of the noble men
constituting the majority of the Constitu-
tional Convention, and we pledge our best
efforts to help uplift the standard of City,
County and State politics.” Convention
adjourned.
