[Column 2]
who represented Stakes in Idaho; Sisters
Adeline H. Barber, Lydia Rich, Mary
Harding, Jane S. Richards, Susan Grant,
Ann C. Woodbury and Brother George
Benson. The subjects treated upon were
the duties of the Relief Society, the home,
the mother, the training of the children,
charity, humility, prayer, union, and other
important matters, spiritual and temporal;
the storing of grain was spoken of by each
one who reported, and an unusual interest
seemed manifest in this respect.
	The president made closing remarks in
which she alluded to some of her early ex-
periences in the Church, which were ex-
ceedingly interesting, and of which she
spoke with intense feeling. The meeting
closed with the doxology; and benediction
by Counselor B. W. Smith.
	The afternoon session was numerously
attended, notwithstanding the concert in the
Tabernacle. On the stand besides the gen-
eral officers of the society and several
presidents of Stake organizations, were
four of the Apostles, F. D. Richards, F.
M. Lyman, John Henry Smith and H. J.
Grant. Prayer was offered by Apostle Ly-
man.
	Reports were made by Sisters Olivia
Widerborg, Sage Jones, Artemisia Seeg-
miller, Mary Ann Hyde and Mary Bell
Heywood.
	Ann C. Bartlett, of Uintah, who had
recently visited England, Mary John, Ruth
Pack, Rhoda A. Lyman, Mary Pitchforth,
all of these sisters gave favorable accounts
of the several organizations where they
preside, and in fact the whole tenor of the
meeting proves the Relief Society to be in-
creasing in influence and in importance and
in prosperity throughout all the stakes of
Zion. After the report from the sisters
Elder John Henry Smith was the first
speaker; he referred in the course of his re-
marks to the great change which had taken
place during the past few years in regard
to our position before the world, and spoke
particularly of the recent Irrigation Con-
gress in Albuquerque, New Mexico, and
the honor shown to President George Q.
Cannon and others of our people. Elder
H. J. Grant followed in a similar strain and
spoke of the prophecy of President Wood-
ruff in Brigham City that the time had come
for the Lord to favor Zion, etc.; thought
the Saints should be careful and not get
lifted up with pride.
	Elder F. M. Lyman in his remarks dwelt
specially upon the labors of the sisters in
the society and in the home, and expressed
the deep interest he had always taken in
the sisters’ organizations, and his apprecia-
tion of their efforts for good in various
directions.
	President George Q. Cannon who came
in late after having addressed the audience
in the Tabernacle, occupied a few minutes
in speaking to the sisters; giving wise
counsel and timely instructions; encourag-
ing them in the path of duty as Latter-day
Saints and as mothers, commending their
labors in the past, and especially the in-
tegrity and courage they had manifested
heretofore in times of trial and adverse cir-
cumstances; touched upon many subjects
pertaining to woman's advancement here
and elsewhere, and to the present political
conditions in Utah in view of statehood
and of equal suffrage in the near future.
In closing his remarks President Cannon
invoked the blessings of the Lord upon the
sisters, mentioning especially the presiding
officers of the society.


Apostle F. D. Richards fully appreciated
the labors of the Relief Society and referred
to the excellent instructions given by the
brethren who had spoke; felt the sisters
needed the blessings and encouragement of
the presiding authorities in the various
stakes and wards, and gave the presidents
excellent advice about many things con-
nected with their organization.
	President Young made a few remarks
thanking the brethren for their presence.
President M. I. Horne presented the gen-
eral officers who were sustained by unani-
mous vote, and the conference was adjourn-
ed until next October. Singing, “Our
God We Raise to Thee." Dismissed with
prayer by Apostle John Henry Smith.
	E. B. Wells, Sec.


