[Column 2]
in the closest sympathy with each other.
Sidney Barrington was true to his promise,
he gave up his profession, but still preached
occasionally at funerals, or filled the pulpit
for any of his friends in the vicinity, when
either of them were necessarily absent.
Their life passed along quite smoothly for a
time, and Mrs. Harrison ceased to look for
any extraordinary event to happen. The
boys were ambitious in their studies, Con-
way inclining to medical pursuits, and
Edward Hilliard to music in which his
very soul delighted. Edward Walton was
not so pronounced in any one direction and
really caused his Aunt Jane more uneasi-
ness than the others. He was fond of
horses and of all sorts of out-door sports
and athletic games. The girls were taught
needlework in all its branches and such do-
mestic employments as seemed suited to
their position in life as plain Americans.
Not a word was ever said to them or any
allusion made to titles or estates in England.
	It was finally learned after much research
that the debts of honor most of them con-
tracted abroad had swallowed up the Wal-
ton property, so that Anna's children really
only had what they inherited from their
grandfather Hilliard, and that had been
divided, and subdivided among so many,
that it was not much to boast of, and from
year to year the amount became visibly less.
Mrs. Harrison cared little for the English
estates. Her interests and Sidney Barring-
ton’s were all with the people among whom
they dwelt, and they listened to the un-
favorable recitals that came by letter, from
the lessees of the Hilliard lands and tenantry
without remorse. In fact Mrs. Harrison
felt that if all were gone, the boys would
be less inclined to wander from her and
their home in the new world. She had
means sufficient by prudent management
for all, and she intended the boys should be
taught such industry and economy as would
help them to be self-supporting. She had
imbibed the ideas and habits of the plain
Puritan people and she realized that such
principles were productive of morality and
honesty. She regretted that Edward Wal-
ton showed a tendency to follow in his
father’s footsteps, and trusted to the dis-
ciplinarian methods of Sidney and other
teachers and professors to cure him of his
waywardness.
	The influence exerted by Mrs. Harrison
among all those associated with her in any
way was very elevating, she sought to
make all around her self-respecting and
was a great favorite with high and low not
withstanding her exclusiveness.
	After a regular course of study Conway
feeling it imperative to thoroughly prepare
for his life-work decided that he must take
a university course abroad; his integrity to
his home and the patriotism he had mani-
fested, convinced his mother it would be
safe to trust him, and in fact she desired he
should be thoroughly equipped for his
chosen profession. It was an event in the
calm, quiet life of the staid New England
household, and to Jane Harrison it was like
parting with a part of her life, Sidney was
to accompany him over and make some in-
vestigations concerning property affairs and
cases involved. At the last moment al-
most Edward Walton became possessed
with the idea of going with them, and
reason as his aunt would she could not
change his mind. He was old enough to
declare for himself, he wanted to see his
stepmother, he had heard more than was

[Column 3]
prudent of his father’s career, and naturally
longed to know more. At last unwillingly
Mrs. Harrison consented and charging Sid-
ney to watch over Edward and bring him
back when he returned in the fall and with
tears and sorrowful emotions, they set sail
once more for England.


