[Column 1]
		CONFERENCE N. A. W. S. A.
	CONFERENCE OF THE NATIONAL AMERICAN
		WOMAN SUFFRAGE ASSOCIATION; HELD
		AT SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY, 13, AND
		14, 1895.
				[Continued.]
	MISS ANTHONY, upon introducing Mrs.
Stansbury said:
	"We have with us a representative of
your neighboring State that is a little in ad-
vance of this last action of Utah in enfran-
chising women, and that is a representative
from Colorado where the women voted at
the last election of '94 and as you remem-
ber were enfranchised by a vote of seven
thousand majority at the election of '93,
Mrs. Stansbury, and I want to say to you
that she is no small part of the Editorial
staff of the Rocky Mountain News, and if
you behave yourselves you will probably
see yourselves reflected in the columns of
that paper. (applause.)
	REMARKS BY MRS. L. M. STANSBURY.
	Miss President, Ladies and Gentlemen:—
I am very glad that Aunt Susan has told
you that it is my business to write rather
than to talk. I am afraid in our state we
would think it was cruel to ask me to speak
after the speakers that you have listened to
here this morning, and yet it seems that we
from Colorado ought to thank you for the
help that Utah has given us. You have
heard a great deal about what we have to
go through in politics, you have heard
how utterly disreputable it is to go to the
primaries, caucuses and conventions. I
think from my experience that we have had
a great deal more disreputable time in secur-
ing the ballot than in using it, in the State
of Colorado. In the State of Colorado the
struggle has been going on ever since
General McCook suggested it. In the first
legislature I believe in 1876 when the Con-
stitutional Convention was held there, there
was a very hard struggle to get it put into
our Constitution, but our men were not so
well posted in regard to suffrage as they are
today. In 1882 there was a bill introduced
which met an untimely death as bills are
wont to do. There was a suffrage associa-
tion formed for the purpose of raising
money to help to carry their campaign. I
think there were only 8 charter members,
ours has about 180; we kept on working by
ourselves, I do not think there were more
than 20 or 30 of us in regular attendance
until the first legislature convened. After
that, my friends, we introduced a bill, we
were all very young and very green, we
did not know anything about a bill. They 
told us a constitutional amendment was
necessary but it took the lawyers forty-five
years to find that out. We found a young
man who had a constitutional amendment
which provided that no foreigner should
vote on his first papers. He said he was
willing to strike out the word "male"

