[Column 2]
the table-cloth placed on it. Thus we
dined. How did I get through the night?
I divided my time between the bed inside,
and star-gazing outside the tent. The men
were lost somewhere in the stack.
	Monday Aug. 26th. Field said, “What
do you think of the crops? I never saw the
like. Here the fields of wheat, barley, and
oats, had grown far beyond my conception.
	Should I describe the scene as I saw it in
the field, the account would appear fabu-
lous; so I will say, come and borrow the
book of the description of the valley, and
its resources, and read for yourselves.
Many straws of grain are grown in a cluster
from one kernel. From a cluster I counted
from one straw, measuring, six feet and
one inch, and made an estimate, that in the
entire cluster, there, must be fifteen hun-
dred oats. Field said he expected his farm
this year, to yield a profit of from eighteen
to twenty five hundred dollars. The land
is sub-irrigated. That is the ditches are
made ten rods apart, and the water soaks
under. This is of but little trouble. The
hard pan below the soil, holds the water
which soaks up. The climate the year
round is mild. The altitude is 7,665 ft.
the thermometer registers very high, al-
though the heat is not so preceptible in the
sun within about thirty degrees as is ex-
pressed, when a cloud passes under the
sun, a sudden change is made. Hence there
is a great difference in this altitude between
sun and shade. The roads are made by
nature, not a stone for twenty miles, they
are sandy and packed with traveling over
them. Not a hollow, or hill did I see.
One teamster with two wagons and four
horses can haul seventy five hundred. I
had no need to brush dust from my cloth-
ing after a travel of forty miles, going one
way and returning another. The moisture
rises from the ground causing a dew that
lays the dust. As we were traveling for
miles, past these fields, covered with tall
heavy headed grain, they extended beyond
our vision. The valley has undoubtedly,
once been submerged, hence the level sandy
surface. The beautiful white cumulous
clouds, that seemed constantly piled up
along the horizon, surrounding the valley
on the tops of the low mountains, filled
me with such admiration, that I felt that it
could properly be called the “Valley of the
Gods.” I thought this would be a grand
place for a Temple, for the second coming
of the Son of Man, or for a garden of Eden.
	I must here leave the descriptive as the
view widens before me, and bring the
reader back to the house built and owned
by my nephew. A few days before I ar-
rived, it had been visited by lightning.
The mother and both children were shocked.
The lightning passing by the piano without
injuring it, visiting three rooms in its
course, cracked the plastering along the
way, and entering the bed-room, smashed
a large plated mirror into small pieces, then
stopped its destruction by splitting the fur-
ther post ot the bedstead. Did some un-
seen power hold me back, and then again,
hurry me on, preserving me from these
destructive elements? I answer yes.
Surely the destruction by the elements as
predicted in the 24th, Chapter of Mathew are
upon us.
	Before leaving Monte Vista, with my
Nephew, and two children, I participated in
a picnic sociable, in a grove three miles dis-
tant. He belongs to two lodges, or clubs.
This one admits ladies, and he joined it,

[Column 3]
that he might take with him his wife. The
main object of this society is to sustain a
fund, to care for the sick, and bury the
dead. This union reminded me of a cele-
bration in Salt Lake City July 24th, 1849.
Having been driven from our homes in a
body, our love, and interest, as a commun-
ity were one. So it seemed that there was
much harmony with them.
	Monday Sept. 2nd. I started for home,
and at the depot parted with five of my im-
mediate kindred. Why this parting? Be-
cause I do not live for selfish ends alone
I checked my baggage, and paid my fare of
six dollars and twenty cents, to Salida, I
arrived there late in the night. Now using
my excursion return ticket. I checked my
baggage for the entire journey. For three
hours another lady and I, had to wait, with
depot iron seat accommodations We
watched closely the clock, and after our car
was past due, without any call, all rushed
to the coming car. After traveling two
miles to the East, the conductor told us
that we were on the wrong car, and going
the wrong way. Soon we were placed on
the Pullman cars going West, and rode in
the Pullman Baggage Car to Leadville, sit-
ting on a couple of camp chairs. We were
the sole occupants of this empty car. Day-
light soon exposed our lonely situation.
We were then exchanged to our car, which
had stopped for breakfast; but our change was
not for the better. This was “Peach Day” at
the Junction; and fully one and a half car
loads of people were crowded into one.
	Space here will not admit of a description
of the road, as we were going to, and com-
ing, this side of Leadville. I don’t believe
the like can be equalled on the earth, for
magnitude, grandeur, and sublimity of
rock scenery. No one could imagine the
extent without seeing it. At times, the
car windows would not admit of our eyes
beholding the top of the towering cliffs, as
they seemed to reach the skies. We went
flying with great speed, and at one place we
suddenly came to a stand still. By looking
from the platform, I saw a very large boul-
der which had purposely, or accidentally
been, precipitated upon the track, from the
perpendicular heights above. Men with
their chisels and hammers, succeeded finally
in making room for us to pass. We now
struck the dreary clay colored soil of Color-
ado, and to add to our sombre mood, our
train was three hours behind. Thus I
landed in Salt Lake City at 2 o’clock Wed-
nesday morning Sept. 4th, 1895. Soon
after I arrived home I learned that the D.
R. G. Ry. train had been visited by a “hold
up.”
	I must here remember another
cousin, who is connected with the above,
now numbered with the dead, the daughter
of Addison and Louisa Barnes Pratt, and
wife of William McGary, who favored me
with her likeness, and family record the
latter being her last written words on earth.
Ellen Sophronia Pratt McGary b. Feb. 6th,
1832. died Aug. 9th, 1895, of fatty degen-
eration of the heart. After having been
confined to her bed two days, she quietly
passed away, at Garden Grove, Anahiem
Cal. She will be remembered as the eldest
daughter of her mother’s family. In com-
mon with the family, she endured all the
privations of a pioneer life, having arrived
in Salt Lake Valley, Utah, in the fall of
1848. We were much associated together
in those early days, because of her cheerful
spirit, she claimed a place in the leading


ranks of society. She went with her
father’s family on one mission to the Society
Islands in 1849, returning in 1852.
	Since arriving home I have taken up the
thread of life anew, and am continuing the
work of compiling the Stevens Genealogy.
All records of this family name should be
reported at once, to
	DR. ELVIRA STEVENS BARNEY,
	24 W. North Temple
	Salt Lake City, Utah.


