[Column 2]
which would carry with it equal suffrage to
all women. So in spite of all their ridicule
if we did not know enough to get our bill
in we knew enough to get a rider, and horse
and rider went down together. When the
next legislature met we had a bill. There
were three more bills besides ours to give
suffrage to woman, and it was that more
than anything else that made us feel the
sentiment was general. I think that was
what gave us courage to go to the National
Woman's Association and ask for help. In
1893 the women of Utah held a silver meeting
a few weeks after. That was the first of
our suffrage campaign- We did not desig-
nate it a suffrage meeting, some women
talked silver and some talked suffrage.
Miss Shaw said that she did not know what
she would vote for. Now we are very un-
certain, we may be sorry which ever way
we vote but we do know that we will
vote for silver just as early, and just as fast
as the law will allow us. You have heard
a great deal about the silent influence of
women. Now in our state we have come
to the conclusion that the silent influence
is to talk and talk to a man until he will
give you anything on earth to make you
shut up. I really believe our men have
concluded that they would rather let us go
and vote as we pleased, than to talk and
labor and ask them to do this and that and
the other thing, because they are all willing
to please the ladies.
	I did not expect to speak at all here this
morning; if I had, I would have put on
some bigger sleeves. You understand that
Mr. Worth invented this style himself as he
thought that large sleeves would be neces-
sary to accommodate the muscles.
	Not having expected to speak to you at
all I will make way for some one who is
better capable of doing so. (Applause.)
	Miss Anthony—This was one of the
political candidates for State Superintendent.
She did not get quite votes enough to elect
her but nevertheless she was one of the
nominees of the democratic party, Mrs. C.
C. Bradford of Colorado. 
REMARKS BY MRS. C. C. BRADFORD
	Miss President, Ladies and Gentlemen:
Just fancy coming as a representative of a
state where women vote, to a Territory
where women don't yet quite vote and be
presented as a defeated candidate. It is
perfectly dreadful. Nevertheless I was the
first woman ever nominated for a state of-
ficer in Colorado, and though I was beaten
they cannot take that honor from me.
	It seems to me that it is almost like call-
ing for a rush light when the full blaze of
the sun has been permitted to enter a room
to ask me to talk after Miss Anthony and
Miss Shaw have thrilled you as they have
done this morning, it is unkind to you, but
it is a very great kindness to me because
Miss Anthony, Miss Shaw and the women
who have worked so long for Suffrage have
helped to put me on the throne and I am
here; (applause) and I am supremely
thankful to them for putting me there. I
like it a great deal better just as Miss Shaw
said than when I was behind the throne.
Another thing, so many people seem to
think that women are going to become so
terribly masculine and do so many terrible
things when they get into politics. I have
been in politics up to my eyes, and up to
my head, and I stumped the state of Col-
orado twice, once as an organizer of a politi-
cal party, and once as a candidate who did

[Column 3]
not get elected, and I have never met in all
the thousand miles I have traveled with
more reverence or respect than I did then,
when I was upon the throne. I never met
anything more cordial or more delightful
than the good fellowship of the men and
women who were glad to support the wo-
man who had helped to win suffrage for
them, and who chose to cast her lot with a
political party who absolutely hadn't the
ghost of a show. I do not believe in wo-
men seeking offices but I do believe in edu-
cational offices in every way, I believe that
the love and education of women are going
to show through some offices in the state
just as much as will that of the men.
	In regard to the differences of sex, that has
been so ably touched upon that I need not
refer to it except that being in politics will
make you more prominent than you ever
were before, because every woman who has
a child knows absolutely that she must take
an interest in the state—and I am so glad
as Miss Shaw says that you are coming in
as a state—I know you are and I believe
every hope will be confirmed, and I know
the faith and the hope of the Utah Women
and the faith and hope of the Colorado wo-
men for their sisters when this great and
glorious Territory becomes a State; and let
me thank God for the recognition of equal
suffrage here in Utah, and it will yet pre-
vail from clime to clime, from shore to
shore and from Canada to Mexico, wher-
ever the flag of the United States waves it
will be dear to our hearts for it is also a
Suffrage flag. (Applause.)
REMARKS BY MRS. C. E. ALLEN, PRESIDENT
	OE UTAH FEDERATION OF CLUBS.
	Ladies and Gentlemen—I am very glad
to be asked to assist in extending the wel-
come of Utah to our guests Miss Anthony
and Miss Shaw. It is most fitting that at
this time the women of Utah should confer
with these distinguished leaders in all that
tends to the elevation of women. This is a
time when very many women here in Utah
are hesitating about what is best to be done.
There are many women who are influenced
by the old conservative feeling which for a
long time influenced me, that political life
was not best for women. It is but a few
years since I became associated with this
movement but for a long time I recognized
this great truth. In this respect my little
daughter far excels me. When she was
eight years old we were walking up Main
street and she said to me, "Mother, I don't
see why the women can't take some part in
politics," and this opinion she has adhered
to up to this time. I finally became con-
vinced that moral reform was impossible
until the ballot was granted to women.
	I used to feel that it would interfere with
home life, but I now see that the safety of
the home depends upon woman suffrage. I
read somewhere in an old law book that the
first of all Roman laws was the preserva-
tion of the home. What a revolution it
would work in our American politics if this
beautiful idea could be carried into effect
from the mother's standpoint. The life of
our very nation is threatened by the evil in-
fluences which threaten our homes, and
who shall speak concerning the young men
if not the home-makers. I believe if this
idea is carried into our politics it will make
of woman the power she should be. I
honor the women who are laboring for the
cause and all who are in sympathy with
them and I believe their noble deeds will be
recorded on the pages of history, that the


