[Column 2]
church where many of our people will be
gathered to listen to inspired words from
our leaders," hoped we might have a goodly
portion of the same spirit that they will en-
joy, spoke of the efficacy of holy consecrated
oil, and of the blessings the sisters have ob-
tained by its administration, also spoke on
the rearing of our children, if they are
taught to obey and respect their parents
they will obey the priesthood, asked the
blessings of the Lord upon all assembled.
	Counselor Sarah Layton reported the
Mountain View Society as working together
in unison, although in a scattered condition;
felt to do her duty and asked God to bless
all.
	Counselor Mary Lowe made some good
remarks, spoke on the duties of mother-
hood, felt that mothers should watch their
every word and action, and set worthy ex-
amples before our children.
	Sister Ann E. Leavitt said we have need
to be thankful for our comfortable surround-
ings and for the goodly portion of the
Spirit of God we enjoy, we need his spirit
at all times to assist us in bringing up our
children.
	Singing, “The Songs of the Heart.”
	President Catherine Pilling gave a favor-
able report of the Relief Society of Ætna,
“All are trying to do the best they can in
their scattered condition,” asked the bless-
ings of God upon all, that we may grow
and increase in good works.
	Sister Martha Archibald, Annie Baker
and Sarah Broadbent, each bore a faithful
testimony and made some interesting re-
marks.
	Sister Sarah Hinman said, “Our children
are given to us of the Lord, we should
strive to teach them those principles that
will lead them back into his presence and
we need his spirit to assist us in doing so.
	Sister Gregson bore her testimony and
related her experience in receiving the
Gospel.
	President M. Woolf said we should re-
frain from saying we cannot say any thing
to edify, as all had a testimony to bear and
could say a word of the hand-dealing of our
Father unto us, felt to bless Sister May.
	Sister R. May thanked the sisters for
their kind feelings, felt to be humble and
prayerful, desired the Spirit of God to as-
sist her at all times.
	Singing, “Prayer is the soul’s sincere de-
sire.” Benediction by Counselor Rhoda
Hinman.
	The afternoon meeting began at 2 p. m.
President M. L. Woolf presiding. Singing
“Lo, the mighty God appearing.” Prayer
by President Sarah B. Daines. Singing,
“Come O Thou King of Kings.” Coun-
selor Rhoda Hinman spoke on the life of
Joseph the Prophet and of the many ex-
cellent traits of his character, had heard
him speak many times and felt the power
he possessed, viewed the remains of those
two brothers pierced with the bullets of
their enemies; urged all to seek for the
Spirit of the Lord as it is the spirit of love,
peace and union.
	Sister Ella Nielson had been pleased with
what had been said, spoke on the subject of
marriage, mothers as well as daughters
should make it a matter of prayer, that by
doing so the right companion may be found
and avoid much sorrow.
	Singing, “An Angel from on High.”
	Counselor Elizabeth Hammer felt that
we were blessed, knew nothing of the suf-
fering of the Saints in early days to estab-
lish this work; let us study the principles of

[Column 3]
the Gospel, and spend more time with our
children and keep them near to us that the
influence of Satan will not draw them from
us, let us all try to help each other.
	Miss Mamie Woolf had been greatly
edified in listening to the remarks made
knew the spirit of God was in our midst,
had a testimony of this work, knew it to
be the privilege of all who desire it, if we
will be humble and seek for it through
prayer and faith, spoke on the life of the
Savior.
	Miss Nellie Hinman felt that we should
appreciate our blessings, the Spirit of God
dwells with the pure in heart, let us think
more of our eternal welfare, and less of this
world’s goods.
	Stake Counselor John A. Woolf felt
pleased with the spirit of the conference;
the Lord has instituted these organizations
through His servants for our good some are
blind to their own interests and do not take
advantage of these things, we should teach
our children the consequences of bad habits,
and explain the Scriptures to them and
teach them that we have the privilege of
communing with angels, if we live for it,
prayed the spirit of their calling might
rest upon the officers and all present.
	Bishop Josiah Hammer said there had
been many good points touched upon, we
must take up a labor with our boys felt it
would be productive of good as there seemed
to be a spirit of carlessness among them, if
we are united in this we can check it, and
bring them up in the influence of the Gospel.
	President M. L. Woolf presented the
names of our honored and aged Sister Zina
D. H. Young, President of the Relief
Society in all the church, and her Counselors
were presented, desired that we sustain
them with our faith and prayers, she then
presented the names of the president and
her counselors of the Alberta Stake. Said
we had been blessed to day by laying by
our labor and coming to meeting. Sister
Zina D. H. Young told us when she was
with us, she felt the same spirit here that
she felt in the temple of our God, and I feel
that we have enjoyed much of it to day,
we should seek the Lord early when our
mind and body is fresh and clear, should
give liberally of our tithes and offerings
that we may be rewarded accordingly, felt to
thank the brethren for meeting with us,
but sorry they were detained at the com-
mencement, prayed that the spirit of God
would continue with us. Singing, “Now
let us rejoice.” Conference was adjourned
for six months. Benediction by Elder
Samuel Layton.
