ELVIRA STEVENS BARNEY.

[Concluded.]
	Aug. 26th Rollin obtained a carriage at
3 o’clock, and we went sight-seeing until
6 o’clock p. m. This was very entertain-
ing, bordering on the exquisite. We went
upon the much elevated plateau to the
hotel of the grand summer resort. We
drove through Grand Avenue, and on to
the “Garden of the Gods.” Which is
quite as grand as the name indicates.
	Aug. 11th. We all went to the Office of
the Automatic Telephone Co. I was
charmed with the simplicity, and apparent
perfection, of its work. At 11 o’clock I
took the car for Salida, arriving at 7 p. m.
Here I took the advantage of the lay over
privilege on my ticket.
	Aug. 20th. At 3 o’clock a. m. I paid
$6.20 for my ticket to Monte Vista Col.
and again checking baggage, was soon on
the way. With extra engine we were tug-
ging up hill through Royal Gorge; then
south to Alamosa: and then west to Monte
Vista.
	Aug. 21st. At 10 o’clock I was met
with horse and carriage, by my Nephew
Barnard Field Stevens, my twin brothers only
son, who was left at six months old with-
out a father. His wife Jennie, a short
time since returned from Denver having
passed through two very serious surgical
operations; and not yet entirely recovered.
No time was wasted in forming an acquaint-
ance, with wife, daughter and son. The
feeling was cordial, and mutual. No pains
was spared to make me feel, that I was
quite at home. I found Field a business
man. He has worked for years at harness-
making; and carries between four and five
thousand dollars worth of stock. He also
has a farm of two quarter sections, all un-
der cultivation, and calls himself worth
about eighteen thousand dollars. He
went to Monte Vista because of being sorely
afflicted with asthma, about nine years ago,
and is now a perfect picture of health. He
so loved the location, that he persuaded his
mother and step-father, to move there, from
the northern part of Iowa, and they also;
are in love with their southern home, with
their son, and wife, and one child near by.
	Aug 25th.—After dinner, according to
previous arrangements, we started for a
twenty miles drive, to the farm above men-
tioned. My sister-in-law Mary Boutwell,
and husband, Field and I, arrived there
just in time to pitch tent and have a camp
supper before dark. Straw was gathered
from a large stack and the bed made, and

