[Column 1]
Then on, being shown the spot in the river,
where Joseph Smith baptized for the dead,
with my associations in the house of the
Lord, the thoughts that crowded themselves
in my mind, were very many; I really
imagined that I could see him. We then
visited the cottage where the Prophet first
lived then the Mansion where the remains
were brought and visited by so many sor-
rowing Saints; read in the life of P. P.
Pratt page 370—71, for description of
feelings, but the grand sight for dwellings
on the river’s edge, were my admiration;
what grand ideas of the beautiful our
Prophet must have possessed; on visiting
the mansion I really discovered many
changes by what had been told me; on in-
quiry I found I was not mistaken, part
has been torn down, the Nauvoo house has
been built up some what; but of course
never completed, we found many kind
friends who were more than willing to
show and explain things to us; after wan-
dering about from place to place, we then
repaired to the Catholic Church, a very
creditable edifice, with a spire 150 feet high
which we ascended, having obtained per-
mission from the Priest, a very genial gen-
tleman, whom Mr. Stevenson had met on a
previous visit. The view from the spire is
simply grand, the church is built on the
corner across the street south of the block
where on the Temple stood; the Priest
occupies Apostle P. P. Pratt’s house, which
seems in very good condition; of the Tem-
ple there is not one stone left upon another,
there are stores built upon the block, also
vacant places sown in grass, there is
one large store built of the beautiful rock,
the rest, I was informed on inquiring, was
carried away piece by piece until it all dis-
appeared.
	I inquired the population and was in-
formed it numbered 1,300; imagine my
surprise, though I knew by appearances it
was not numerous, what I said “from 25 to
30,000 dwindled to 1,300, how do you ac-
count for this?’’ “Well,’’ the answer came,
“people cannot make a living, no rail-road,
no street cars, no enterprise,” but plenty of
vineyard and wine making,surely the bless-
ing of the Lord has not rested upon this
city since the expulsion of the Saints.
	Being fatigued beyond satisfaction we re-
paired to the Hotel, “The Oriental,” com-
fortable quarters, with a most kind, genial
landlady. Thursday morning 18th, after
a most comfortable night’s rest, feeling
quite refreshed, we prepared to take leave,
having obtained a nice piece of the Temple
rock from our kind friend and hostess and
with a kindly parting we then take a short
ride through the city, go to the upper land-
ing, take passage on the steamer, Ottum-
way Bell, had a very pleasant passage to
Keokuk arriving before noon; after din-
ner we took in as much of the city as pos-
sible; next morning we again took steamer
for Quincy, Ills. We again took in all we
could of that city, having visited the
Soldier’s Home which certainly is a won-
derful establishment; we were escorted
through, then taken to the Club House
where they prepare ten bushels of potatoes
at once, we saw them already peeled, every
thing else in proportion; an immense larder
well filled, we take the evening train for
Chicago, arriving next morning; Saturday
21st, we again took in sights in that grand
city, all day, retiring to our apartments at
night, next morning, Sunday 22nd, taking
leave 6 a. m. we proceed on to Elgin, ar-

