[Column 2]
world what they can do, they have shown
they have brains, and now I think it is time
that we have the ballot.” An old gentle-
man remarked to me: “that is my daughter,
she graduated at college, she is a mother
and now she says ‘I will show the people
what I can do.” That is just the argu-
ment that she used that now we have at-
tained this power we have got to the top
and we must not go backwards again. But
ladies, I think you have a grand future be-
fore you and with all the opposition to com-
bat you will succeed in this Territory.
	As Miss Shaw said, I have no patience with
women who do not think that the women
will do right in this Territory when given
the ballot, I have faith to know that the
women have heads and hearts and are just
as true and noble and kindly towards their
own sex as the men, and I don’t see why
the women of this Territory should not
vote just as intelligently for themselves as
a man. One gentleman in the Convention
said his wife was a Republican and he was
a Democrat. He said they would not want
to fight on the question. If I want to do
anything that my husband is opposed to I
don’t say anything I just keep quiet but I
just do my own way. (Laughter) Now I
tell you ladies and gentlemen that we are
just going to get there. Just look at that
ship of State as it comes in. Do you see
those Eastern States? Do you see the wo-
men bending down and looking up? They
are just as eager as the ones marching in
side by side. See the twin States of Dakota
they don’t come in equal they are just half.
Now we have the State of Colorado march-
in, men and women look alike. Sometimes
when we see them together we don’t know
which is the man and which is the woman.
See the State of Wyoming, the men and
women look just alike, and as Miss Shaw
said last night “We live together so many
years that we grow to look alike” and here
comes this beautiful young State of Utah.
Why it is dressed beautifully in white, com-
ing in with purity and glory and every-
thing behind it with men and women
equal. (Applause.)


