[Vol1 | August 1914 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial Faith]

EDITORIAL.
FAITH.
The custom of appealing to physicians for medical assistance in all cases of sickness has become so prevalent even among the Latter-day Saints, that faith in the healing of the sick has been measurably relegated to the rear.
It is true, we still send for the elders, but the physician is, or will be, in the house as well, and we are apt to rely more upon his skill than upon the administration of the Priesthood.
While if there is a return of health, we are pretty sure to give the credit to the physician.
This people are not narrow in their views on the subject of physicians, but we must sound a warning cry in the ears of the women of the Relief Society, that they fail not in their duty to teach lessons of faith in God and in the laying on of hands for the healing of the sick, to their families.
In the rise of this Church, faith was the one and the only recourse in all cases of sickness and disease.
Simple remedies were administered and were perhaps a part of the household equipment.
But the bottle of consecrated oil occupied the most prominent place in the sick rooms of the Latter-day Saints.
The pages of the old Millennial Star teemed with the cases of miraculous healings under the hands of the elders.
Who is there that has not seen the wonderful healings made manifest among this people from time to time?
Is there any lack of power in the Priesthood?
On the contrary, there has probably never been a time in the history of the Church when there has been more power and efficacy in the united ranks of the Priesthood than at the present time.
What, then, may be the difference?
It is an entirely individual trouble: You and I, dear sister, may be at fault.
The moment we are sick, do we take a remedy, or hunt up a physician?
And if we hear of a neighbor who has been taken ill, is our first question, who is the doctor, or what does the doctor say?
Too much of our time in social affairs is spent in discussing medical problems and medical treatment.
The children hear all this and 6 consequently when they are sick their first thought is not to inquire for a spoonful of consecrated oil, but to lean upon the doctor and his advice.
If we are to retain the established principle of faith for the healing of the sick, we must work at it as we would at any other principle or doctrine which we wish to make a part of our lives.
Whenever the need arises with ourselves, or with our dear ones, then call in the elders, as we are told to do in the Scriptures, and if we are not healed on their first visit, let us call them in again and yet again.
The Lord will surely heal us if we surely call.
We sometimes say ne need a physician to tell us what ails us.
The Lord is perfectly cognizant of our condition, and he is as able to heal one difficulty as another. 1 wish the sisters would read Alma's description of faith as given in Alma, chapter 32, verses 26-43, in this connection.
This is the simplest and finest description of the manner in which we can acquire that wonderful gift of faith ever recorded in the Scriptures.
Hygiene is a necessary part of our religion.
We should be clean.
We should keep the laws of Moses which were the laws of health.
We should be hygienic in all our outgoings and incomings.
We should keep the Word of Wisdom and the laws of God, but above all, if we are to have abiding health, we should cultivate daily the gift of faith.
In closing let me quote that wonderful passage in the eighty-eighth section of the Doctrine and Covenants just preceding the Word of Wisdom.
For this is the epitome of all hybienic laws as well as the foundation upon which are erected that flimsy superstructure known as so-called science "Cease to be idle; cease to be unclean; cease to find fault with one another; cease to sleep longer than is needful; retire to thy bed early, that ye may not be weary.; arise early, that your bodies and your minds may be invigorated. * * * And above all clothe yourselves with the bonds of charity as with a mantle, which is the bond of perfection and peace." AVe have been giving some summer lessons on the laws of hygiene and sanitation in the home.
These follow closely the instructions of Moses translated into modern language and usage.
But we must not make even these laws the foundation of our health but seek faith in God and the Priesthood as our foundation stones, building up the superstructure of such hygienic laws and observances as ancient and modern wise men prescribe for us.
Above all things, let us cleanse our hearts from envy, strife, jealousy and hatred, thus indeed folding about us the mantle of charity which we are told is the basis of all health of body and mind.
.
August