[WomansExponent | Vol18 | 1889 | February | Issue: 18 | Title: A LOVED ONE PASSED AWAY. | Author: M. I. A]

A LOVED ONE PASSED AWAY.
		NETTIE S. ALDER.
Born Oct. 14, 1870.		Died Jan. 10, 1890.

		"Sister, thou wast mild and lovely,
			Gentle as a summer breeze,
		Pleasant as the air of evening,
			When it floats among the trees.

		"Peaceful by thy silent slumber—
			Peaceful in the grave so low;
		Thou no more shalt join our number;
			Thou no more our songs shall know."

	Once again we have cause to mourn the de-
parture of one of our dearly loved members. On
Friday evening, Jan. 10, 1890, the sweet spirit of
our dear sister and friend, Nettie Alder, passed
away.
	What an indescribable sadness came over us
upon hearing of this sad event! How tears un-
bidden flowed from our eyes, and would not be
checked! We could not at first realize the pain-
ful truth. But alas! too true. Nettie has left us. 
Her pure, noble spirit has taken its flight. Words
cannot express how keenly we feel the loss of this 
dear one from our number. We realize that in
parting with Nettie we have lost one of the bright-
est and most faithful workers in the association.
	From her childhood Nettie has been an inter-
ested and a useful member, always performing the
labors assigned to her willingly and well. We
shall miss her bright face from our midst. As the
roll is called we shall no more hear the gentle
voice answer with a beautiful sentiment. No more
can we listen to the bright ideas with which she
was wont to respond to the programme. By her
sweet, amiable disposition, Nette gained our
lasting love and affection; her bright intellect
won our earnest admiration; while her virtue,
integrity and true womanly dignity incites our
emulation. But she has left us. Why she should
have been called away we know not. It is one of
those decrees of divine Providence that it is difficult 
to understand. It is hard to bow the head and 
say, "Thy will be done."
	Nettie's life was like that of a beautiful flower
that has budded and bloomed to perfection, then
drooped, faded and died. But like many beautiful 
flowers she will spring up into life at another
season, more beautiful, more perfect, more love-
able. 
	To Nettie's parents and loved ones: We ex-
tend to you our heartfelt sympathy in this hour of
your bereavement. We realize that your sorrow
is a great one, and that words are weak to console
unless accompanied by that soothing spirit that
gives comfort to the aching heart. You feel that
the sunshine has gone from your home; to you
the sun does not shine with its usual brightness.
There is a place in your home that is vacant; a 
place that no person can fill. Such and kindred
[column 2]
thoughts are but natural. But do not let your
grief be so great as to drive the Holy Spirit from 
you, for this, and this alone, can fill the void in
your hearts. Remember our Savior said, "Blessed
are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted."
	For nineteen years Nettie has brightened your
home with the sunshine of her presence, but she
has been called away. He that bestowed this
blessing upon you has taken her again.
	While here her future looked bright and prom-
ising. She is enjoying a future far brighter and 
happier than earth could have given her had she
remained.
	Try to realize that in parting with Nettie you
have added one more treasure to those gone be-
fore; one more link to connect you with that
bright home above, and one more hand to beckon
you along that straight and narrow path that leads
to life eternal.
	We as a band of sisters earnestly pray that the
Spirit of God will permeate your home. May its
sweet influence soothe and comfort you, heal your
wounded hearts, and shed a brightness over your 
souls that no earthly power can dim. 
			"Dearest sister, thou hast left us;
				Here thy loss we deeply feel;
			But the God that has bereft us,
				He can all our sorrows heal.

			"Yet again we hope to meet thee,
				When death's gloomy night has fled;
			Then on earth with joy to greet thee,
				Where no bitter tears are shed."

	Officers and members of the 17th, Ward Y. L.
M. I. A. 
					MRS. J. C. HOWE,
								President.
					MISS. ELLA DALLAS,
								Secretary,


