			SILK ASSOCIATION.

	One year ago to-day, June 15th, 1876, the
above named association was organized with-
out capital, yet, by the blessing of God upon
the diligence and perseverance of those who
labored, and the means appropriated by dona-
tion from different persons in the community,
the Society has been able to pay for nearly all
the cocoons that were for sale in the Territory.
Seventy lbs of cocoons have been disposed of
for reeling; fourteen lbs have been donated to
the Society.
	Seventeen silk pocket handkerchiefs, (a very
good article) have been woven, and twenty-
five yards more of the same material are now
in the loom; a sample silk stocking has been
knit on the Lamb's knitting machine; three
pounds of silk have been made into sewing
silk, floss and twist; this twist is for sale at the
Z. C. M. I. Some of the silk has been woven
into pillow lace. Some of the cocoons have
spoiled by moths and millers soiling them.
By referring to Mr. Piper's remarks in the
Deseret News, and carefully observing, these
difficulties may be obviated.
	A few large cocooneries will not [--] as benefi-
cial to the community as if farmers in general
would devote a portion of land to raising mul-
berry trees, which would give employment to
aged people and children, and would be a source
of wealth, as well as to promote industry.
	Utah is as good a climate for silk culture as
any in the world; samples of silk were taken
from Utah, by Elder Paul Schettler, to France
and Italy, and by competent judges there were
pronounced of the best quality. It now re-
quires quantity before machinery can be made
practicable, meantime, stockings, sewing-silk,
floss, &c., can be manufactured for home use.
	Although few in numbers, as yet, we hope
to see this enterprise prosper, as also all others


that will benefit the community. Hoping that
it may increase in interest each succeeding
year.
	ZINA D. YOUNG,
		President Deseret Silk Association.
	June 15th, 1876.
	The Deseret Silk Association met per ad-
journment, City Hall, Tuesday evening, July
11th, Mrs. Zina D. Young presiding. After
the meeting had been opened by prayer, and
the minutes of the last meeting read and ac-
cepted, Mrs. Young made a few remarks upon
the business, the success, etc. Bro. A. M.
Musser then gave some of his views in regard
to the course to be pursued; said he had 2,000
mulberry trees that were doing well; he an-
ticipated great results. Bro. Smith from Boun-
tiful, a silk weaver, spoke mostly upon the get-
ting of machinery; said it would be very little
expense to procure sufficient. Sister Smith
also made some excellent remarks. The silk
businesss is progressing slowly but effectually.
Some of the finest cocoons are now ready for
use. Miss M. A. Rockwood spoke of having
commenced to learn the silk reeling; she be-
gan about two months ago, and intended mak-
ing herself proficient in the silk work; was
pleased with the occupation. There is now a
very fair prospect for some real benefit to ac-
crue from the manufacture of silk in Utah, al-
though there must necessarily be time to bring
about any great purpose.
	ZINA D. YOUNG,
		President.


