PIPSEY PAPERS.

	I intended to write something of our So-
ciety business the next time, but I feel so
little in the humor of writing that I scarcely
know where to comm[--]ce.  The principal
item of interest at present is the Arfzona
mission. The bishop said we had an op-
portunity of helping the missionaries to
an outfit. We accordingly worked with
our sincere good will, and provided what
we could for the family that was called from
our ward. There was a party made for the
Arizona boys, as a farewell compliment, and
we thought it was all over.
	The young man who was sent from the
Second ward had started a few days before,
but his team being weak and his heart per-
haps weaker, he returned to attend the
farewell ball. He waited on a young lady
who, it is said, he had been casting a wish-
full eye towards. I suppose he found the
ball a success; he succeeded at any rate in
persuading the young lady to cast her lot
with his and try the Arizona mission.
	As she belonged in our ward, we took an


interest in fitting her out and supplied her
needs as well as we could. Nine days from
the time he tried his fate he started on his
way rejoicing, with a stronger team and
a braver heart, with a loving wife and the
best wishes of true friends, that their jour-
ney through life might not all be so rough
as at the beginning. If I was a novelist it
would furnish the plot for an interesting
story; but, as it is, I can only give you the
circumstance, which was very interesting
to us at the time, I can assure you.
	Our Society had been for some time talk-
ing of making a ball, and after our mission-
ary labors were over we turned our atten-
tion to that. Wishing to carry out the
President's counsel, we issued our tickets
for the next Friday at two p. m. We met
accordingly at Academy Hall. The ball
was opened by prayer, and while a portion
were dancing, a committee appointed for
the purpose laid the table in the lower part
of the hall, which was abundantly large,
arranging the picnic as it was brought in.
At four o'clock we partook of a very nice
supper, after which the tables were cleared,
the hall filled with dancers, and all went
merry as a marriage bell. At ten o'clock
our Bishop offered a prayer and dismissed
us. It was a very enjoyable affair, and the
best of order and good feelings prevailed.
	A few days later we were called to part
with a beloved sister, Mrs. Harriet Roberts,
relict of the late Horace Roberts of Provo.
She was a kind mother, a faithful saint, and
an active member of our society; she be-
longed to the board of appraisal. She died
after a protracted illness, beloved and re-
spected by all who knew her.
		No costly monument shall mark
		The place where thou art sleeping,
		But angel bands and loving hearts,
		Their silent watch are keeping.
								MARY.
Provo, June 3, 1876.


