PERSONAL BEAUTY.

	If the admirers of the brunette tell you
seriously that there is no expression in the
blonde, that she fails to wear well, that her
beauty is of the shallow type, which can be
taken in and digested at half a glance,
while the brunette grows and grows upon
you like a star in heaven, on the other hand,
the lovers of the blonde have exhausted
poetry and language in her praise, and pro-
test quite as savagely that she is the most
perfect specimen of womanly beauty, It is
all a matter of taste, however, since "beau-
ty is a joy forever," whether it be of the
nut-brown maid, or of Fair Ellinor. Was
it not the "fair haired Helen" who lighted
fools the way to dusty death? Have not
both blonde and brunette swayed the world
by turns? If the first is too colorless and
indefinite to please you, may not the second
be too decided in tone to charm another?
We are fond of saying beauty is only skin-
deep—perhaps as a gentle consolation to
those who have none—while in truth it is
bred in the bone with those who lay any
positive claim to it. You may rob such a
one of the cheek's red marvel, of the eye's
lustre, and point crows' feet upon the face,
and yet the bony structure will repeat the
story. Landor tells us that extreme beauty
is expressionless; and may it not be that
nature, having lavished color, form, and
harmony upon one, reserves expression for
the inharmonious, colorless faces, and so
keeps the balance good? For expression is
always the highest, the most durable form
of loveliness, something with which Time
cannot trifle, which improves with age, be-
side which fine features and vivid tints are
ineffectual and insignificant. In the mean-
time it is evident how great a factor beauty
is, when a dimple can work mischief, when
a pair of sparkling eyes are worth more to
their owner than a fortune, when a coral lip
carries conviction, and a rosy cheek is a
passport to favor and to good society. All


our prejudices are at the service of beauty
at first sight; we are apt to think it an ex-
ponent of the inward spirit, the soul shin-
ing through, or overflowing into visible
form; and we experience an almost personal
disappointment when we find that the man-
ners and thoughts do not correspond to the
face. Beauty is indeed at times something
utterly independent of symmetrical fea-
tures, clear complexion, and liquid eyes; "a
divine improvisation," which happens to
some people whom we are in the habit of
calling plain, and develops their possibili-
ties; something that seems to be the radi-
ations of happy thoughts, of a lofty mind.
And do not the countenances of those we
love always wear a charm that transcends
actual beauty, be the eyes luminous or
faded, the nose retrousse or aquiline, the
hair golden or gray?


