HOW TO MAKE MISCHIEF.

	Keep your eye on your neighbors. Take
care of them. Do not let them stir without
watching. They may do something wrong
if you do. To be sure you never knew them
to do anything very bad, but it may be on
your account if they have not. Perhaps if
it had not been for your kind care they
might have disgraced themselves long ago.
Therefore do not relax any effort to keep
them where they ought to be. Never mind
your own business that will take care of it-
self. There is a man passing along; he is
looking over the fence; be suspicious of 
him; perhaps he contemplates stealing some
of these dark nights, there is no knowing
what queer fancies may have got into his
head.
	If you find any symptoms of any one pass-
ing out of the path of duty, tell every one
else what you see and be particular to see a
great many. It is a good way to circulate
such things, though it may not benefit
yourself or any one else particularly. Do
keep something going—silence is a dread-
ful thing though it is said there was silence
in heaven for half an hour—do not let such
a thing occur on earth—it would be too
much for this mundane sphere.
	If after all your watchful care you cannot
see anything out of the way in any one, you
may be sure it is not because they have not
done anything bad; perhaps in an unguard-
ed moment you lost sight of them; throw
out hints that they are no better than they
should be, that you should not wonder if
people found out what they were after a lit-
tle while, then they may not hold their
heads so high. Keep it going, and some
one else may take the hint, and begin to
help you along after a while; then there
will be music, and everything will work
like a charm.


BUILDING CHARACTER.—There is a
structure which everybody, young and old,
is building, each one for himself. It is
called Character, and in it every act of life
is a stone. If, day by day, we be careful
to build our lives with pure, noble, upright
deeds, at the end will stand a fair temple,
honored by God and man. But, as one leak
will sink a ship, and one flaw break a chain,
so one mean, dishonorable, untruthful act
or word will forever leave its impress and
work its influence on our characters. Then
let the several deeds unite to form a day,
and, one by one, the days grow into noble
years, and the years, as they slowly pass,
will raise at last a beautiful edifice, endur-
ing forever to our praise.


