	THE STAGE.

	Among the many prevailing modes of
education with which the present age is fa-
miliar, there is none which exercises great-
er control over the attention and sympathies
of the student than the dramatic stage.
	It is not merely a platform of boards, with
appurtenances of pasteboard and gilt. It is
not an idle show to attract people, for the
purpose of spending time and money fool-
ishly.
	It is not erected, as some think, to sus-
tain the weight of clowns who make others
foolishly happy by making themselves fool
ishly miserable—far from it.


To the eye of the intelligent auditor the
stage presents a more noble and engaging
spectacle—One from which a moral can be
deduced and a lesson learned, by all who
konw how to observe, reason and reflect.
To such, the rude carpets and paintings,
the colored and gilded canvas and paste-
board, become the paraphernalia of the
world in miniature.
	The shifting scenes, living events, the
actors in costume—beings such as we might
appear in different ages of the world. The
whole, a mirror where the varied passions
and actions of ourselves are reflected back
to us from the faces and forms of the devo-
tees of "Thespis."
	Remarkable coincidences of stage incident
and everyday life often occur, and we not
unfrequently witness a feature in a drama
that startles us with its similarity to cir-
cumstances immediately around us.
	Who can say that the scenes of love, duty,
virtue, madness, misery, and death, when
enacted by persons of genius on the stage,
are not faithful copies of incidents which
come under our daily observation? In this
lies the great benefit conferred by the stage
and its relations; for even as Hamlet used
the play as the thing "wherein to catch the
conscience of the king"—so can we by faith-
ful observation and study, school our own
natures, relinquish our vanities and follies,
despise vice and resist its temptations, pro-
mote our virtues, and copy the examples of
good which are thus forced upon our notice
by this reflective medium—this mirror of
life in all its phases.	THESPIS.


