				GENERAL.
	The new Masonic Hall, Buffalo, was ded-
icated June 24th with imposing ceremonies
......A new air line to Boston, by way of
New Haven, Middletown and Willimantic
Conn., will soon be completed......Dr. Le-
Moyne of Washington, Penn., has construct-
ed a furnace for the purpose of cremation
......John Neal, poet and author, died re-
cently at Portland, Maine, at the age of 83
......Prof. Botta of New York has been ap-
pointed by the Italian government commis-
sioner to the Exhibition at Philadelphia
......A terrible tornado in central Iowa on
Tuesday evening July 5th, great destruction
of life and property, one whole village
swept away—devastation dreadful......The
Emperor of Brazil made a speech in New
York on the 10th inst......Excessive heat in
New York, Washington and Philadelphia;
many deaths from sun-stroke......The He-
brews in the United States are preparing to
found a college in Cincinnatti......A large


number of buildings struck by lightning and
some people killed in New England......Six
companies of U. S. Infantry from Cincinnat-
ti gone to reinforce the army now operating
against the Indians......Postmaster Jewell
has resigned at President Grant's request.


For the EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S VOICE.
	I have just come home from Sunday
School; I have fed my silk-worms, attend-
to some other domestic duties, and now
I want to say a few words to the mothers.
	I am a teacher in the Sunday School,
where I take my six children when they
are well, and they are usually blest with
good health, for which I feel grateful; but
sometimes when they are not very well
through the week they seem to get better
for Sunday. I think mothers do not take
the interest in this great privilege they
ought; they might do many more things
than they do to help in the good work.
Mothers have a very important mission to
fill in this generation.
	Our children, even here in Zion, are
growing up without a knowledge of the
Gospel in a great measure; and parents are
to blame in many instances. We must
teach our children the word of the Lord,
and pratcise it ourselves, or we shall be held
accountable at the last day. I am interest
ed in the things of the kingdom of God,and
I would like to see every one working faith-
fully with their best ability.
	How can we sit down with our hands
folded and say all is well, and think we
are going to be saved in the Celestial king-
dom? The Lord says—"Serve me with all
thy might, mind and strength, and pray
without ceasing."
	I think woman has so much to do and to
learn that she has no time to spend on tri-
fles; but as wife and mother to be up and
doing. We must learn what we came here
for; assuredly it was not to waste time in
vanity and folly. We must learn of the
things of God and practise true principles.
If woman is to be a companion, a counselor
to man, and he attains to thrones, principal-
ities and powers, the wife to be his equal
and stand by his side, what a vast work lies
before her to perform; it is said one is not
without the other in the Lord.
	Sisters, we must train our children in the
right way, that they may be an honor to us;
let us gain wisdom and get understanding,
that we may teach our children in the ways
of the Lord. I realize it is the mother that
makes the man; then how great the respon-
sibility of mothers, to instil into the minds
of their children truth, honesty and virtue.
I believe there are many noble spirits ruined
through tne weakness and indulgence of
parents. They smile and flatter the child
in doing wrong when it is little, because it
is too young to correct, and when it grows
bigger it is too large and old and knows
more than its parents; then comes the fruits
of what they have sown. Let every one
learn not to smile or encourage wrong even
in a child.	M. A. W.


