				SANTAQUIN, May 25, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	As it is seldom that this place is represent-
ed through your columns, I thought I would
write and let you know what we are doing
here in this part of the Lord's vineyard. I
think that the most of the people here are
trying to live their religion and serve God.
Our Sabbath meetings are well attended.
Our Relief Society is doing well under the
Presidency of Sister E. G. Stickney. On
Monday, the 22nd inst., our Bishop and
twelve of the most prominent ladies of San-
taquin, including the president and counsel-
ors of the Relief Society, president of the
Young Ladies, Improvement Association,
and other officers of both societies went
down to Spring Lake and organized a branch
Relief Society in that place; it being too far
for sisters with small families to attend the
meetings here. By unanimous vote the fol-
lowing named sisters were appointed and
set apart as officers at Spring Lake under
the presidency of Santaquin: Mrs. Eliza-
beth Broadbent President, Mrs. Melissa
Babbit and Sarah A. Jonson Counselors, Mrs.
Delcenia Babbit Secretary, and Mrs. Mar-
garet Spanihowr Treasurer. President
Stickney read the instructions Miss E. R.
Snow published in the "Deseret News" of
April 23rd, 1868. The Bishop gave the sis-
ters a great deal of very good and valuable
instruction.
	I can say that our Young Ladies' Improve-
ment Association is doing well; our young
ladies are improving rapidly; we hold our
meetings once a week, which are generally
very interesting. We have a weekly man-
uscript paper which is composed entirely of
original compositions, which is read every
meeting by some of our young ladies; the
name of the paper is "Our Young Ladies'
Thoughts." We have had no work done in
our meetings until lately, but now we are
making a quilt for the benefit of the Temple,
and as soon as that is finished we intend to
make some other things for the same pur-
pose, for we desire to do all we can to for-
ward the work of the Lord.
	Our young people have not indulged in
round dancing this past winter, and all our
parties, since we heard the instructions of
President Young, have been dismissed at
10 o'clock, and all seem satisfied with it.
	The EXPONENT is read with great inter-

[Column 2]
est in all our meetings; we feel we could
not do without it, and wish it every suc-
cess.			Ann J. STICKNEY,
					Sec'y Y. L. I. A.


