			SPRING CITY, June 6, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	In reading the reports of the different So-
cieties we take great pleasure. They
plainly show the good efforts of the sisters
in almost every city or town of the saints.
Ours is a quiet little place, almost shut out
from the world, and yet we enjoy the Spirit
of the Lord.
	We held our annual meeting May 4th, it
being eight years since our society was or-
ganized. Our yearly report plainly showed
that the poor were not neglected; we have
some poor and old people who need atten-
tion, and we have some very good teachers
who strive to do their best in looking after
the needy. Our President, Mrs. M. A. P.
Hyde; is striving to her utmost, never ceas-
ing, for the benefit and advancement of the
good work in which she is engaged. We
had a party on the fifth, it being Sister
Hyde's birthday; the teachers thought they
would make a dinner for her. There were
quite a number gathered, and all enjoyed
themselves well. Sisters Wareham, Castoc,
and Cristaffersen were present from Manti.
They expressed their happiness at meeting
with the sisters, and finding everything so
pleasing; said they knew Mrs. Hyde to be
well worthy of our best affections. Presi-
dent Orson Hyde was present; he enjoyed
himself well and gave some good instruc-
tions, and was well pleased with the society;
encouraged us to go ahead, and referred to
the way government was working, that
robbery and fraud were increasing in nearly
all ranks of society, until an honest man
scarcely knew where to go to find peace and
safety.
	Bishop Olsen was also present; he spoke
and encouraged the sisters much and blessed
them for their noble efforts. We feel sure
that truth will yet prevail, for the Lord has
said it would, and it cannot fail whether we

[Column 3]
stand true and firm or not; but I hope we
will all be able to stand the great day of
proving, which has come and is coming
every day, and it is for us to watch our-
selves that we do not fall, but that we prove
faithful to the last, and put off all worldly
vanity and foolish pride, and to do our
Heavenly Father's will, that we may suc-
cessfully invoke His blessings on us, and
not provoke His wrath.
	Wishing your paper the best success and
the blessings of God to attend you in your
good efforts, I remain
			Yours truly,
						P.E. BENSON
							Secretary.

