		BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

		Wedded love is founded on esteem,
		Which the fair merits of the heart engage;
		For those are charms which never can decay.
		But time, which gives new whiteness to the swan,
		Improves its lustre.
								FENTON,
	It has become proverbial now that there
are not as many marriages as there
used to be. Looking about for reasons,
many unjust and illogical conclusions are
drawn. The reason most generally assigned
by men is that a wife in this day is too ex-
pensive an article to keep. "It costs so
much to support a wife, that is the reason
young men don't marry," and the mother
is blamed in most instances because she has
indulged her daughter, or has not sufficient-
ly impressed upon her mind the prepara-
tions for housekeeping, or the subject of
domestic economy. Fathers very seldom
come in for any share of the blame, no matter
how much they have petted or neglected the
daughter's true interests, it is her mother
that has not taught her properly, that has
failed in some particular to do her whole
duty, this is the verdict.
	Allow me to say, with all due deference
to men, that if they would regard women
as rational beings, and not encourage, by
precept or example, the idea that fragility
and weakness were womanly and fascinat-
ing qualities, that woman's charms were
enhanced by her very dependence, that her
sweetness consisted in her incapacity to
stand alone, to do battle with the world in-
dependently; in short, that her reliance up-
on a stronger nature was an absolute neces-
sity, it would tend to make women better
and nobler. If such is really the case, then
she is not a perfectly developed woman,
and would, under any circumstances, be in-
capable of standing alone. To be sure one
must be well balanced within and without
to be capable of acting under the various
circumstances of life wisely, but as a wife
and mother is there not just as much need
of wisdom? Do not men in thousands of
instances look to the wife for courage, for
strength of purpose to assist them in the
vicissitudes of life? Failures in business,
which occur so frequently, are borne with
far greater heroism by women than men,
usually speaking.
	Do not farmers (for instance) expect their
wives to do all the general housework,
make butter, milk cows, etc., with very lit-
tle hired help, while they perhaps keep sev-
eral hired hands which these same wives
must cook for etc.; and perhaps they have
a family of little children who require con-
stant care and attention, sometimes keep-
ing them awake all the night, sick and rest-
less. Do men realize that these burdens
press heavily?
Surely the woman who can so systematize
her work as to keep the machinery of the
household running on smoothly and quiet-
ly from day to day, and year to year, and
wear a pleasant countenance, be always neat
and tidy in her own appearance is indeed a
marvel. It requires a vast amount of patience,
care, prudence and forethought to accomplish
woman's household labor.
	There are very few men, comparatively
speaking, who are competent to judge by a
woman's dress or housekeeping whether
she is extravagant or not. There are many
women who have a faculty of making old
things look stylish and almost new, who
seem to possess the good tact and perfect
taste to make all that is around them

[Column 2]
harmonize, to soften and tone down that
which would otherwise be glaring and un-
pleasant to the sight. Yet how few men
comprehend these little trifles that make
up so much of the sum of domestic happi-
ness.
	How many wives there are whose sole
motive seems to be to please their husband
and their God, and of those who make duty
their chief aim and study how many fail
to win one word of commendation from the
husbands who have promised to love and
cherish them.
	And is it not necessary for them to be
self-reliant if they must live self-contained
lives? Then the best education for woman
as well as man, is that which develops all
the faculties and powers God has given
them. Let each one of either sex take a
reasonable view of life from an enlightened
stand-point, and he or she will enter into
the marriage relations not from impulse,
or under the impression that they are going
to wed an angel, but a rational human
being, with tastes and desires and feelings
like others. Find out the intrinsic value of
the soul of the one you would wed, the
fineness of the web and woof. Do not mar-
ry for a fine face or a fine form, nor for any
foolish idea about affinities; for all these
will vanish when the toils and hardships of
life come upon you, but if there is a genu-
ine fountain of truth and virtue and moral
integrity to supply the place of beauty and
wealth and show, you will be well provided
in any emergency. A man or woman who
does not love another because he or she is
poor, does not love at all, they are not capa-
ble of loving. There must be some inher-
ent goodness of heart where there is true
affection. Marriage under all circumstan-
ces and for both parties interested requires
self-denial; and selfishness seems to be the
ruling spirit of the age.


