HYGIENIC NOTES.

	Ventilation.—Many people do not understand
how essential perfect ventilation is to refreshing
sleep. The best method is to leave a window par-
tially open. If it is raised a little at the bottom
and let down even half an inch at the top it makes
a material difference.
	Inability to Sleep.—This is something which
should be guarded against by every possible
means. It is one of the significant indications of
nervous irritability or mental excitement, and may
at any time, without positive warning, result in
the form of uncontrolable violence.
Care of the Feet.—Great care should be taken to
keep the feet thoroughly clean. Some people
talk a great deal about cold feet and vica versa, but
seem to reflect but little upon their cleanliness.
There is no portion of the body that requires more
care in this respect than the feet. The soles of the
feet contain large pores that both absorb and repel
fetid matter to a greater or less extent. The feet
should always be washed every day and the stock-
ings changed, if they are only aired and sunned
and then worn again. The old fashioned practice
of making children put their stockings in their
shoes at night, because it is orderly and tidy, is an
unhealthy one, as, is putting one's night clothes
under the pillows; instead of this, put them where
the air and sun will penetrate them.
	The Pulse.—Every person should be able to
ascertain the state of the pulse in health, and then
to compare it with the pulse when ailing, would
give some correct idea of the condition of the pa-
tient. Every mother in particular should under-
stand the [-]pulse of her children, as there are in-
stances where children are born with a peculiarly
slow or fast pulse, which of course would be neces-
sary to consider when there was any ailment. Or-
dinarily, according to some of the most authentic
calculations, an infant's pulse is 140 beats a min-
ute, a child of seven years about 70, declining to
60 at fourscore. At 60 if the pulse always ex-
ceeds 70 there is a disease of some part of the sys-
tem, or fever or inflammation. In consumption
the pulse is quick.


IVY FOR looking glasses: Have a little
flower-pot with earth, or a glass with water,
hang it at the back of the glass and plant
in it a slip of ivy. When the branches grow
they can be trained around the frame in
such a way as to entirely hide the source,
and decorate the frame in any way desired.


[Column 1]
	DAVID JAMES,
		(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
			AGENT FOR
	RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
		Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responped to.
	Address, David-James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

