				HOME AFFAIRS.

	NORMAL INSTITUTE.—At the Deseret Uni-
versity at 10 o'clock a. m:, Aug. 7th, the Teach-
ers' Normal Institute will open its session of 
two weeks, under the Presidency of Dr. J. R.
Park. The object is to discuss the best meth-
ods of instruction, and many talented teachers
will take part in it, giving their services.
	The Institute is free, and arrangements have
been made greatly reducing some attendant
expenses, railroad fare, etc;
	Theory and practice of teaching, Prof. L. F.
Monch;
	Reading, Prof. Chas. Davis;
	Arithmetic, Prof. T. B. Lewis;
	Geography, Prof. Chas. Wright;
	English Grammar, Prof. W. H. Rager;
	Orthography, Prof. Milton H. Hardy;
	Penmanship and Bookkeeping, Prof. F. M.
Bishop;

[Column 2]
	History and Natural Science, Prof. Karl G.
Maeser;
	Music, Prof. George Careless;
	Drawing, Geo. M. Ottinger;
	Object Lessons, Miss Ida I. Cook;
	Elocution, J. L. Rawlins
	This Institute affords excellent opportunities-
for instruction for persons who wish to become
proficient as teachers, and opportunities for
attainment and advancement like this, should
be improved by all who can possibly avail
themselves of them.
	THE LADIES' Centennial Territorial Fair now
open in the Old Constitution Buildings, is cer-
tainly a suceess in the exhibition of ladies' in-
dustrial home work. Very elegant and artis-
tic specimens of wax fruit and flowers, artificial
flowers for trimmings of all varieties and shades,
almost innumerable varieties of ornamental
and useful articles, for adding to the beauty
and comfort of home are there in profusion.
One of the chief features of the fair is the silk
word in all its various forms and stages of pro-
duction, from the egg to the cocoon, and from
them to the article reeled, spun and woven.
	Competent judges of manufactured lace, as-
sert the pillow, Eeru and Honiton lace on ex-
hibition there, that is equal in worth to manu-
factured elsewhere. There are many varieties
of articles too numerous to mention in detail.
The Fair possesses many attractions for stran-
gers and visitors, who can thus form some
idea of what Utah is doing. The ladies who
attend spare no pains in describing the articles
they have for sale or for show, and the price
of admission is only 10 ctc., which is so very
small that every person can assuredly visit it
and see the products and the handiwork of the
women of Utah.
	THE FOURTH of July in this Centennial year
of American Independence was enthusiastic-
ally celebrated in various parts of Utah. Can-
nons fire-works, processions, music, speeches
and all the appointments necessary to make a
great noise and great display were provided for
this joyful occassion, in most of the towns and
settlements. Ogden was the chief point. Our
space will not admit of details, evere one who
desired to participate in the enjoyments of the
glorious Fourth have had ample opportunity.
	SURPRISE PARTY.—On Wednesday, July
12th, a social party of ladies of this city went 
to Cottonwood, to celebrate the anniversary of
the birthday of Mrs. Elizabeth Howard, The
day was a fine one, and everything passed off
pleasantly. This lady is a charming hostess,
and one of those genial, genuine, whole-souled
women who attract and draw around them
hosts of friends.


