FLOWERS.

	The smallest hair casts its shadow.
	A GOOD smile is the sunshine of wisdom.
    —Hosea Ballou.
	No man was ever scolded out of his sins.
    —Cowper.
	A JUDICIOUS silence is always better than
truth spoken without charity.—De Sales.
	THE most difficult thing in life is to know
yourself.—Thales.
	THE greatest truths are the simplest, and
so are the greatest men.—Hare.
	THE greatest good fortune is that which
amends our imperfections, and balances our
faults.
	REMEMBRANCE is the only paradise out
of which we cannot be driven away.—Rich-
ter.
	IN character, in manner, in style, in all
things the supreme excellence is simplicity.
—Longfellow.
	LOVE of truth shows itself in discovering
and appreciating what is good wherever it
may exist.
	OUR Lord has written the promise of the
resurrection, not in the Bible alone; but in
every leaf in springtime.
	TO have a respect for ourselves, guides
our morals; and to have a deference for
others, governs our manners.—Sterne.
	MOST of the shadows that cross our path
through life, are caused by us standing in
our own light.
	EVERYTHING is pernicious that emanci-
pates our intellect without at the same time
strengthening our self-control.
	WE cannot conquer fate and necessity,
yet we can yield to them in such a manner
as to be greater than if we could.
	I THINK the first virtue is to restrain the
tongue; he approaches nearest to the gods
who knows how to be silent, even though
he is right.
	SKEPTICISM has never founded empires,
established principles or changed the
world's heart. The great doers in history
have always been men of faith.—Chapin.
	FAITH is a domestic and private capital;
there are public savings banks and relief
funds, out of which individuals receive as-
sistance in times of scarcity; but here the
believer himself silently draws his interest.


An exacting temper is one against which
to guard both one's own heart and the na-
ture of those who are under our control and
influence. To give and to allow, to suffer
and to bear, are graces more to the purpose
of a noble life than cold, exacting selfish-
ness which MUST HAVE, let who will go
WITHOUT; which will not YIELD, let who
will BREAK. It is a disastrous quality
wherewith to go through the world; for it
receives as much pain as it inflicts, and cre-
ates the discomfort it deprecates.


