			WOMAN'S RECORD.

	MISS Ryland, who lately presented the
town of Birmingham, England, with the 
Cannon Hill Park, has just given forty acres

[Column 2]
of land at Small Heath, valued at $150,000'
for the formation of another park.
	MISS Kellogg will sing at the commence-
ment of Bowdoin College, Aug. 2, and will
receive in remuneration $500, free of all
expenses.
	MRS. Scott Siddons, now in New South
Wales, wrote to a friend in San Francisco,
that a remarkably handsome Fiji Islander
took a very great fancy to her, and wanted
to buy her of Mr. Scott Siddons, offering in
exchange six bunches of bananas.
	MISS Anna Dickenson has just completed
another new play. She has taken for her
plot and ground work the fortune of a Jew-
ess in different countries—England, France,
Germany, Russia and the United States.
It is said to possess merit and is particular-
ly noticeable for the strength with which
the principal characters are drawn. Miss
Dickenson intends playing the Jewess.
	MRS. Agnes Abbott Houghton delivered
an oration in Bath, Maine, on May 30th, at
the occasion of decorating the soldiers'
graves. She is the wife of a Universalist
minister.
	MISS Alison, who has charge of the Wo-
man's Pavilion at the Centennial Exhibition
at Philadelphia, speaks of the occupation of
running engines as a regular business for
women, as less tedious than almost any of
the usual vocations adopted by them:
she says an engine requires far less atten-
tion than any woman gives daily to a child.
She herself from a child was very fond of
machinery, nor do we think this an excep-
tional case; there are many women who de-
light in mechanism, and who have skill
and tact in that direction if they would
cultivate it; but thinking it out of woman's
sphere, confine themselves to work wholly
distasteful and unadapted to them.
	QUEEN Victoria, it is said, crosses the
Dee at this season almost daily. She uses
an open carriage, a wagonette or low pony
phaeton. No fuss attends her on these oc-
casions; an outrider a little in advance of
the carriage clears the road, and she passes
on quietly, nodding and smiling to those
who chance to meet her. The Queen and
her ladies frequently picnic in the woods,
or on the hillside. Materials to make a fire,
and cooking utensils, are taken in the car-
riage; tea made on the greensward and
handed round in rustic fashion without
any ceremony. The Queen's seat is often
on the stump of a tree, or any other casual
resting-place that is convenient.
	MRS. E. C. Stanton, Miss S. B. Anthony
and Mrs. M. J. Gage have opened parlors at
1431 Chestnut St., Phil., as their head-quar-
ters during the Centennial. They announce
a grand Mass Meeting for the 19th and 20th
of July, those days being the twenty-eighth
anniversary of one of the first Woman's
Rights Conventions ever held.
	MRS. Julia Sumner Hastings, a sister of
the late Charles Summer, and the last sur-
viving member of his direct family, died at
White Ranch, Marin Co., Cal., on Monday,
May 29th, 1876.
	MISS Minnie Hauck, a young lady singer,
has attained the position of a highly dis-
tinguished artist within a few years. Dur-
ing her tour on the continent of Europe
she was a great favorite, especially in Ger-
many and Hungary.


WHICH letter in the alphabet is the most
useful to a deaf lady? A; it will make her 
hear.


