EDITOR EXPONENT:
	If agreeable, please insert the following in
the EXPONENT.
	Some little time ago I sent a photograph of
President Young to a friend of ours in Eng-
land, and I extract a portion of the letter I got
back upon it.
		HANNAH T. KING.
	"I was agreeably surprised and pleased when
I saw the beautiful photograph of your Presi-
dent. Of the many pictures, caricatures rath-
er, I had seen of him, they tended to give the
very opposite impression of the man, and left
a sort of prejudice. Here is his veritable shad-
ow, sent from the spot where he resides, and 
through your hands! Do I believe in it? I
think I do indeed. It took me wholly by sur-
prise; I always had him in my mind—an en-
tirely different sort of face to this, which is
really a pleasure to look at; and the more I


look at it the better I like it! I have shown it
to many, and shall show it to more; all ex-
claim—"A different man to what I should have
thought!" or "to what he is represented both
in writing and in pictures!" all expressed
something in this style, and all said "It is a
fine face," or, "a good face," or, "a handsome
face.,' I say it is a splendid face and expres-
sion, and no person possessing the slightest
taste could pronounce it otherwise than good
and striking, dignified and genial. If there is
not a good heart beneath, the face is a lie! I
do thank you for it, I shall value it beyond
price, and I shall show it to those who con-
demn without knowing, who believe without
enquiring. It shall give the lie to many, or I
am much mistaken. I thank you for it very
heartily; next to your own none could please
me more."
	Another extract from same letter:—"You
say 'the photograph is a life-like likeness of
the most extraordinary man of the age;' I
agree with you; he is, to my mind, THE most
extraordinary man of the time, and of the age.
I have already told you what I think about it;
I am greatly interested in it, I admire it; I love
to show it to my friends and hear their re-
marks; I am proud of it, because you are my
friend and are intimate with him; he is your
chief and you believe in, and follow; he is the
abused of the abused. This photograph has
taken away all the prejudice I might once have
had, and tells me he is not the man he is rep-
resented to be so grossly. One has only to look
on that fine face to feel, to believe, that he is
belied beyond credence. It will indeed be
treasured by me and proudly shown to all.
Again, I thank you for it."


