[COLUMN 2]

their fast-growing girls idle or lazy, because
of the inertia they are sure to feel and must
indulge more or less. And fathers, doubtless,
do less good than harm, by making their
young sons blush to hear what wonderful days'
works they were in the habit of performing
when about the same age that their boys are
now. These same fathers would be more ca-
pable men to-day, if in youth they had kept a
portion of their strength in reserve instead of
exhausting the whole ere it had time to ma-
ture.
	If boys and girls must waste their energies,
however, it is far better that they waste them
in useful labor than in unprofitable pleasure.
Yet there are more young girls in these days,
who destroy their health by dancing and frolic-
ing too much, than there are who injure them-
selves with overwork. They should be taught
the folly of such a course, and, if possible,
brought to realize the danger without entailing
the actual consequences.
	Too few of our middle-aged women have the
freshness and vital strength which, with prop-
er use, they should retain, even when they are
grown old and are ripening for another sphere
of action. If the natural strength and vigor
of womanhood has not been dwarfed, or dead-
ened before marriage, it is most likely destroyed
in the early years of matrimony, by injudicious
measures, which, though often deemed neces-
sary, might in most cases be avoided. "Young
wives and mothers are too proud and too am-
bitious," says a woman of experience; "they
want to do every thing themselves, and be es-
teemed model housekeepers, when in fact they
are not through with the alphabet." The de-
sire of a young wife to have all things kept in
order about her home is perfectly right, and a
rule which should as far as possible be kept in-
violate. But still it is better to sacrifice a lit-
tle ambitious pride than for a mother to risk
her health and that of her offspring.
	Young men, and old ones too, in all parts of
the civilized world, and in all occupations,
may daily be seen exhibiting the same weak-
ness which characterizes the child just learn-
ing to walk—the propensity to overreach, to
accomplish more in some direction than the
Lord has given them ability to do. When
financial ruin comes, the cry is raised' "wo-
man's extravagance has wrought this evil!"
whereas it is merely the result of perverted am-
bition.
	That men and women walk side by side in
this path cannot be denied. And for the
heavier portion of blame to be shoved upon
the weaker vessel is perfectly natural to fallen
humanity, though most unjust.
	E. B. Wells


[Column 1]
