[WomansExponent | Vol27 | 1898 | August | Issue: 6 | Title: A VISIT TO BEAR LAKE. | Author: LYDIA D. ALDER]

A VISIT TO BEAR LAKE.

	July 2. Night on the train: speeding
along through the darkness with an oc-
casional stop; lights flashing here and there;
while nearing stations the shrill screech of
the engine, then away into the darkness
again.
	In the palace cars brilliant with light and
grandeur wearied humanity lounges on the
cushioned chairs; family groups presenting
pictures of ease and rest. Young mothers
embracing their sleeping infants charm the
eye with their grace and beauty. Change
cars at Cache Junction with the accompan- 
ing hurry and bustle; parting with those
who go to Cache Valley, goodbye to the 
darling babies, then away again into the -
night.
	Some passengers sleep while others
lounge at their ease. Away the train
speeds, station after station left behind, un-
til the many shining lights of Pocatello
gleam out in the darkness. Change cars
for Montpelier, then on again as before.
Soon faint glimmerings of light appear
over the eastern mountains, that herald the
approach of day; later the sun sends golden
rays of gladness over the land. The moun-
tains are lower here than our own Wasatch
towers, and the winding stream is spanned
by many bridges.
	How beautiful and dainty is the scene in
the early morning light! The landscape
changes as we near Soda Springs, the
ground assuming a brown and copper col-
ored appearance, and the mountains also
change their garb.
	On we speed again, reaching Montpelier
at 8 a. m. The fresh faces of the travelers
of the day before are weary and faded now
but the heavy eyes visibly brighten as we
reach our journey’s end. Waiting carri-
ages carry us over to Bloomington and our
kinsfolk.
	How glad we are to meet! after all blood
is thicker than water, and these are our
kindred. How manly the boys; how kind
and gracious the girls! “We hope your
stay among us will be pleasant, we are
glad to see you.” How royal the welcome!
Now to visit, renew old friendships, form
new ones and talk of the days gone forever.
	First of all a visit to the graves of our
loved uncle and aunt high up on the west-
ern hillside, overlooking the valley of bus-
tle and life and the homes of their sons and
daughters whom they have left to carry on
their life work. Now all is peace, they
have been faithful unto death, these sturdy
pioneers of Bear Lake Valley and their
name is honored among the sons of men.
“After life’s fitful fever they sleep well.”
	How I loved auntie! I think of her
goodness as I gaze on the cold, gray stone
that marks her resting place. What a kind-
ly warm heart she possessed; her counsels
rise to mind now, “Nay speak no ill, 
and child return good for evil.”
	Then I think of her sorrows, parting


[Column 1]
with all her baby girls save one. Some
sleep under the daises and buttercups of
England where they were born, one came
to them on the stormy Atlantic,a little Sea-
Born, but she only came for a little while;
journeying up the broad, muddy Mississippi
on the way to Zion she passed from earth.
The steam boat landing on the river’s bank,
a little grave is dug and she is laid tender-
ly away. Even the rough boatmen drop
the tear of sympathy on the lonely little
mound, the boat resumes her way and
auntie is bereft of her baby. Yet she too 
is at rest the evening breeze sighing over
the mountain soothes her dreamless sleep.
Near her lies Eliza who lived but twelve
short years, then rested on the journey.
Cousins William and Bailey are near with 
other grandchildren. My lips frame a
prayer. O, auntie are you happy now on
the Echoless Shore with all your little ones?
Cousin Leah is with us, auntie's precious
daughter whom she left a youthful bride.
She has a lovely little daughter now and
two sons.
	And auntie’s sons; they have many sons
and daughters now who love to hear of
their grandparents. And all are doing
well, laboring under the Gospel Banner,
magnifying offices of trust and all in the
faith.
	The shadows have grown long, the full
moon just peeping over the mountains,
where it hangs low in the sky, the Bear
Lake catching and reflecting the beams on
its peaceful bosom, looks like a sea of glass
in the moon’s full glory.
	A quiet Fourth spent on the island far up
in the canon. Friends chatting, a nice
little program carried out, races run amid
the glee of the children, a quiet visit with
Nature in her tangled, leafy dress, then
home again to the town. Visit follows
visit until we have met all our cousins in
their own homes. A pleasant little tea at
President Hart’s by invitation of his ami-
able wife, meeting in friendly converse her
sister, Mrs. Sam Hill of Salt Lake.
	By request meeting with the Relief Soci-
ety and Y. L. M. I. A., the sisters loving
and kind, the time is agreeably spent.
	Then the farewell reunion at the old Dun-
ford home with its wide porches and gen-
erous rooms, now the property of cousin
Oliver C. Dunford where he resides since
his return from his New Zealand mission.
The tables are spread under the trees with
the bounties of earth, around which all
gather large and small. At last goodbye
in the room sanctified by their mother’s
dying breath, which hallows it still and
falls like a benedictiun as one enters there.
Goodbye to Bear Lake and to friends, lov-
ing ones “Goodbye.” Tears fall as the
words are uttered. Farewell, farewell. it
may be for years and it may be forever.
	Midnight at Montpelier, then away again 
into the darkness. Early morning at Cache
Junction then up through lovely Cache
Valley, past Logan where the Temple
clearly shows through the morning mists.
We stop at Whitney and are met by my
two stalwart sons, and soon kiss daughter
Eliza and the baby. Days pass by visiting
loved ones in Preston and Franklin.
	Dinner with Cousin George on his birth-
day made happy by the presence of his
charming wife and family.
	By invitation July 24 finds us at the con-
ference in Gentile Valley. What a pretty
picture! The Bear river winding its way
in and out, dense willows on its banks with

[Column 2]
here and there the homes of the Saints.
Some spots are truly picturesque. After a
night’s rest at Bishop Pond’s hospitable
home we drive to the Grove. The meet-
ings are well attended, about six hundred
Saints present who picnic there between
the meetings, all so happy and generous.
The harvest is bounteous. For miles and
miles on either side of the road the wheat
on dry farms is very heavy and abundant.
Some of the party exclaim:"It is mar-
velous!” If the world could but see such
grain raised without a drop of water, they
would say the day of miracles was not past.
Everywhere it is the same, the earth is
yielding in her strength for the sustenance
of man. July 24 in the forenoon another
Stake of Zion is formed named the Bannock
while the old Bannock is changed to Fre-
mont. Thus Zion spreads and grows.
President Lewis S. Pond is chosen Presi-
dent of the new Stake.
	The afternoon service is devoted to a
Memorial for the Martyrs of the Maine.
The story of the treachery that led to their
death was eloquently told by Prof. Hick-
man of Preston. The Sabbath day and
the theme are affecting. In this solemn
quiet, far away from the busy marts of men,
in this grove of poplar trees, the world
with its treachery seems very far away.
Choice music interspersed with national
airs was rendered by the Oneida Stake
choir under the efficient leadership of Prof.
Edwards. A talented young lady, Miss
Elva, the daughter of Bishop Parkinson of
of Preston, feelingly recited the poem,
“Hispania” under the floating stars and
stripes. A generous sum was given for
the monument
	July 25 impressive addresses by Apostles
Merrill, Grant and Cowley, also President
S. B. Young of the First Quorum of Seven-
ties, and Patriarch John Smith.
	President George C. Parkinson feelingly
bade the Saints goodbye over whom he had
been presiding so long; love was the bur-
den of his words, while God’s blessing was
invoked on them forever.

	The world is full of sad “Good Byes,”
		And often falls the parting tear;
	Our lives are changed, our hearts are numb,
		Old paths diverging here.

	And now farewell to our friends in Gen-
tile Valley, as we turn our faces homeward.
A sense of gratitude wells up in the heart
to God for His love and care over us, and
thanksgiving that we are safely home once
more.
				LYDIA D. ALDER.
	July, 1898.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


