[Vol5 | October 1918 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Guide | Title: LESSON III Genealogy ADDED OR SURNAMES THEIR ORIGIN]

LESSON HI. Genealogy. ADDED OR SURNAMES THEIR ORIGIN. (See Chapter 9, Surname Book.) teachers' outline. Definition.  A surname is a permanent name added to the personal name. When families emerge into society, personal names are insufficient for identification. (a) Personal names are usually first compounded. (b) A nickname is often added, and if it becomes permanent and is handed down it then becomes a surname. (c) Sometimes people are surnamed for their place of residence. (d) Surnames come from offices or professions. (e) From trades and occupations. The Hebrew Customs. (a) Usually tribal surnames. (b) Place names. (c) Nicknames. LESSON statement. A surname is a permanent name added to the personal name. A surname is often the tribal or family name and is adopted from varying causes, as we shall see presently.
When families increased and finally settled in large cities it was impossible for people to find enough different personal names with which to distinguish themselves, and so they began to add either a sire name or a nickname, or named themselves from an office, a place of residence or a trade, followed by the first name, which took the place of the surname. The surname, however, did not really become such unless more than one generation bore the added name. At first personal names were compounded, that is, two personal names might be given to a child, or a temporary nickname might be added to his personal name, etc. If a nickname, such as Long or Short, Young or Old, Black or White or Red, Winter or Snow, or Crooked Leg (Cruikshank), became fastened to a person and his children were called by their personal names with the nickname added to it, the nickname then became a surnaine after the second generation. Sometimes people were surnamed from the places where they lived. This was one of the most frequent styles adopted by the Anglo-Saxons in the middle ages. For instance, a man who lived by a wood would be called John Atte Wood, and by and by the name would be John Atwood; or Atte Well, Atwell. Another form of the surname was taken by men or given to them because of the office or profession which they followed. John the Clerk would soon be John Clerk or Clark, while Thomas the Parson would be Thomas Parsons, or William the Wood Reeve would become William Woodruff, and Daniel the Dispenser would, after a time be known as Daniel Spencer. Nearly all surnames which come from offices or professions are Norman, because the Normans were the office holders in England for many centuries. The Anglo-Saxons were the trades people and they took their names from their trades. William the Cook, John the Taylor, Henry the Baker and David the Wheelwright, would become William Cook, John Taylor, Henry Baker and David Wheelwright. The Hebrews kept the tribal name added to the personal name and these soon became surnames. They also finally gave place names and nicknames as surnames. For instance, Simon Bar-Jonah was Simon of the tribe of Jonah; Simon, the Cyrene was Simon from Cyrene; and Simon the Zealot was Simon the Fanatic. The Romans had three forms of names: 1st, the personal name, which they called praenomen; 2nd, the tribal name or nomen; and 3rd, the surname or cognomen. Chinese Name System.  The Chinese kingdom adopted surnames nearly two centuries before Christ, and each family oi tribe carefully trained a genealogist to memorize and record all 
 vital data of the family to its utmost ramification. Twelve hundred years before Christ a Chinese king issued an edict which compelled all his subjects then living to make a verse and to take one word of the verse for each generation surname. These facts have been discovered recently concerning the Chinese people. Teutonic Name System.  All Anglo-Saxon countries have followed more or less closely the usual surname evolution, and we will discover that as we follow along in our lessons. The events following the Norman conquest of England introduced surnames into that kingdom and we take up in some detail the various surname forms of England as they illustrate the same habits and customs adopted by other Anglo-Saxon countries. Nearly every civilized country, the United States being the last, has framed laws to govern and control the formation of names and their legal adoption or change of individuals, comprising the name. QUESTIONS. When does it become necessary for society to adopt surnames? What is a nickname? When would a nickname become a surname? How do people get surnames from their place of residence? Give an illustration of an ofificial or professional surname. Give an illustration of a trade name. What can you say of Hebrew name customs? What can you say of Roman name customs? What can you say of the Chinese name system? Why should laws be enacted to regulate surnames? What is your own surname and where did it originate? Note.  Let the class leader set each person in the class to discovering all possible facts concerning the surname of each student. LESSON IV.