PRESIDENT AMY BROWN LYMAN

Reverence President David O. McKay
In Agra, India, on the banks of the Jumna River, stands the most beautiful mausoleum in the world. It is the Taj, better known as the Taj Mahal. It is built of pure white marble, inlaid with precious stones. It was built by Shah Jahan, for his empress, Mumtaz-i-Mahal. The dome is "particularly sensitive to gentle sounds, and a few notes sung softly here float up in rich waves to break upon the concave of the marble arch again and yet again until they tremblingly die away like whispered accents of impassioned love."
No traveler however crude or uncouth can even approach this "spotless edifice" without sensing a feeling of quiet and respect. Involuntarily he moves noiselessly, and if he speaks at all, he speaks in subdued tones. Boisterous action or loud talking would be as incongruous here as at the bier of a departed loved one.
I have made this reference to the Taj that we might sense the meaning of Reverence; for it is easier to feel what Reverence is than to define it. Whatever awakens Reverence in the human heart possesses something which "checks the haughtiness of the arrogant, silences the petulance of pride and self-conceit, stills the noise and giddy mirth of the young, and communicates to all around the sobriety of mien and aspect."
Sometimes this feeling is awakened as one "comes into the presence of a person in whom are centered age, wisdom, and virtue."
Reverence is profound respect mingled with love. It is "a complex emotion made up of mingled feelings of the soul." Carlyle says it is "the highest of human feelings."
If Reverence is the highest, then irreverence is the lowest state in which a man can live in the world. Be that as it may, it is nevertheless true that an irreverent man has a crudeness about him that is repellent. He is cynical, often sneering, and always iconoclastic.
Reverence embraces regard, deference, honor, and esteem. Without some degree of it, therefore, there would be no courtesy, no gentility, no consideration of others' feelings, or of others' rights. It is the fundamental virtue in religion.
"Reverence is one of the signs of strength; irreverence one of the surest indications of weakness. No man will rise high who jeers at sacred things. The fine loyalties of life must be reverenced or they will be foresworn in the day of trial."
IN THE HOME
Reverence, as charity, begins at home. In early childhood children should be trained to be respectful, deferential, reverent—respectful to one another, to strangers and visitors—deferential to the aged and infirm—reverential to things sacred, to parents and parental love.
There are would-be Solomons who belittle such training, claiming that children should not be corrected or restrained in any way, but permitted to run and carouse as their impulses prompt. These same teachers, however, do not hesitate to give specific instructions regarding the care of the children's bodies. They fail to explain wherein lies the difference in the effect upon a child's nature when parents insist that he brush his teeth, and take his bath, and wash his ears and neck, and when parents insist that he conform to courteous and moral commands of the household.
No true psychologist will say that a child should grow up without a consciousness that in the home and in the presence of others there are bounds and limitations to his activities, desires, and tantrums.
"Train up a child in the way he should go, and when he is old he will not depart from it," is an admonition full of sound philosophy.
Three influences in home life awaken Reverence in children and contribute to its development in their souls. These are Gentle Guidance—Courtesy shown by parents to each other and to children—and Prayer, in which children participate.
IN HOUSES OF WORSHIP
Churches are dedicated and set apart as houses of worship. This means, of course, that all who enter do so, or at least pretend to do so, with an intent to get nearer the presence of the Lord than they can in the street or amidst the worries of a work-a-day life. In other words, we go to the Lord's house to meet Him and to commune with Him in spirit. Such a meeting place, then, should, first of all, be fitting and appropriate in all respects, whether God is considered as the invited guest, or the worshippers as His guests.
Whether the place of meeting is a humble chapel or a "poem in architecture" built of white marble and inlaid with precious stones, makes little or no difference in our approach and attitude toward the Infinite Presence. To know He is there should be sufficient to impel us to conduct ourselves as ladies and gentlemen.
"When once thy foot enters the Church, be bare God is more there than thou: for thou art there Only by His permission. Then beware, And make thyself all reverence and fear."
In this regard, as members of the Church in our worshipping assemblies, we have much room for improvement. Presiding authorities in stake, ward, and quorum meetings, and especially teachers in classes, should make special effort to maintain better order and more Reverence during hours of worship and of study. Less talking behind the pulpit will have a salutary effect upon those who face it. By example and precept, children should be impressed with the inappropriateness of confusion and disorder in a worshipping congregation. They should be impressed in childhood, and have it emphasized in their minds in youth, that it is disrespectful to talk or even to whisper during a sermon, and that it is the height of rudeness to leave a worshipping assembly before dismissal.
One of the most pronounced outbursts of Jesus' indignation was caused by the desecration of the Lord's temple. As he overturned the tables of the money-changers, and ordered out those who were bartering and trading in the holy Sanctuary, he gave a warning admonition that has come down through the centuries: "Make not my Father's House, a house of merchandise."
Making and spending money, even in conversation, faultfinding, and particularly gossiping about neighbors in a house of worship are essentially violations of this command given nearly two thousand years ago.
IN TEMPLES
Courtesy, respect, deference, and kind consideration are pleasing attributes that may be shown on all occasions, and wherever manifested contribute to the pleasure and the sweetness of human relations. However, there is one place above all others where these elements, with devotion and love added to complete the virtue Reverence, should be expressed in every tone and action—that place is in the Temple.
There, as in no other edifice in the world, we go into the presence of the Lord. Therefore, in person, dress, and attitude, we should be prepared to meet Him! Cleanliness of person, immaculate linen, proper poise, reverential decorum, are not mere formalities, but they are sincere and appropriate expressions of love and adoration of Him in whose House we have come to worship, to bless and to be blessed.
Evidence of haste, loud talking, indifference to ceremonies by frequent attenders, harboring ill-will or entertaining an evil thought are foreign elements incongruous to the holiness and sanctity of the House of the Lord. Irreverent behavior in the Temple is like a discord in a soft and beautiful symphony.
ATTITUDE IN GENERAL
Of the attitude of people generally toward Reverence, Charles E. Jefferson, author of "The Character of Jesus," declares impressively that "we are not by nature or by training a reverent people. There are those who say we become less reverent as the years go on.... There are wide areas of American society from which the spirit of reverence has been banished. Men and women in many a circle are clever, interesting, brilliant, but they lack one of the three dimensions of life—they have no reach upward. Their conversation sparkles but is frivolous and often flippant. Their talk is witty, but the wit is often at the expense of high and sacred things. He has come far down in the scale of being who in order to display his powers finds it necessary to ridicule those things which have been prized by all good men. When one enters the world of our present-day reformers, he is impressed by the large number who lack the upward look. Many of these men are tremendously in earnest, they see the crying evils of the world; their sympathies are wide and their zeal is hot, but they have no sky above their heads. They aim to glorify no Father who is in heaven. Some of them claim to admire the Man of Nazareth. They extol His character and His teachings. Yet, strange to say, they do not imitate His reverence, or cast a single glance in the direction in which His eyes were always looking. One finds this lack of reverence even in the Church. In every community there are those who treat the house of God as they treat a street-car, entering it and leaving it when they please. Even habitual church attendants often surprise and shock one by their irreverent behavior in the house of prayer. Those persons are not ignoramuses or barbarians;—they are simply undeveloped in the virtue of reverence."
If there were more Reverence in human hearts, there would be less room for sin and sorrow, and increased capacity for joy and gladness. To make more cherished, more adaptable, more attractive, this gem among brilliant virtues is a project worthy of the most united and prayerful efforts of every officer, every parent, and every member of the Church.