Child-Welfare Provisions Of The Social Security Act Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer fh HILD welfare... Did not C enter the public conscience of any nation until about one hundred years ago. And we know from reading Dickens and the literature of his period that the wellbeing of children in those early days was principally considered from the viewpoint of schooling and of crime prevention and the ending of physical cruelty." These words are from the address of President Franklin D. Roosevelt at the 1939 White House Conference on Children in a Democracy. Evidence of this statement is found in the fact that early provisions for the care of dependent and neglected children in America were in the form of custody in institutions, such as orphanages, first established by religious and other private organizations late in the eighteenth century, and that laws providing public care for dependent, defective, and delinquent children were enacted mainly during the last third of the nineteenth century and related chiefly to care in institutions. By 1900, institutions, both custodial and educational in character, had been established for the feebleminded, the epileptic, the blind, the deaf, the crippled, and for juvenile offenders of the law. Although there will always be some children with special needs (particularly the defective and the delinquent) for whom institutional care must be provided, child-welfare workers of the twentieth century have emphasized the inadvisability » of breaking up families and placing children in institutions because of loss of parental support; they have held to the concept that general welfare can best be promoted by strengthening family life so that children in their family setting may have opportunity for healthy growth and sound development. Consequently, public responsibility for the care of dependent and neglected children, developed during the past four decades and crystalized in the Social Security Act of 1935, is directed toward the care of such children in their own homes. The well-being of children of today is considered to include the essentials of a wholesome family life in a home with parents, relatives, or foster parents, where they have warmth, food, and affection, a sense of security, emotional satisfaction, spiritual guidance, medical care when ill and preventive health service, such as periodic physical examinations, immunization, and dental care, and adequate opportunities for education, recreation, and for vocational and cultural activities. The emphasis for care of dependent children and orphans has shifted from custodial care in institutions to care in their own homes or in carefully selected foster homes, where the facilities of the home are supplemented, if necessary, with grants from public funds in order to assure adequate food, clothing, and shelter, and with special services provided from public funds, such as prevent- 184 ive health services for mothers and. Children, location and treatment of crippled children, and skilled social services for children in danger of becoming delinquent. The responsibility of the government for health protection and educational and recreational facilities for all children of the nation, and for the care and protection, as well, of those children who are dependent and neglected, is concisely set forth in the following statement by Katherine F. Lenroot, chief of the U. S. Children's Bureau, in which she also emphasizes that we, the citizens of the nation, are the government— "Primary responsibility for the nurture, the support, and the training of children rests with the family.... The state has an obligation to assure the availability of such community services as health protection, schools, and playgrounds. But the state has the further duty of making sure that care and protection are within reach of those children who have no parents or natural guardians, and those whose home conditions or individual difficulties or disabilities require special attention. These include the dependent, the neglected, the delinquent, and the mentally and physically handicapped.... Citizens must realize that they cannot divest themselves of responsibility by looking to government for the solution of their problems. Government—local, state, or Federal—is only an institution through which citizens act to fulfill their obligations to themselves, their families, and their fellow men."* The notable progress in child welfare since 1900 has resulted largely from the four important nation-wide White House Conferences on child welfare— 1909—on Care of Dependent Children 1919—on Child-Welfare Standards "Child Welfare 1930-40," The Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science, Vol. 212, (November, 1940) pp. 1-11. 

 

 1929—on Child. Health and Protection 1939—on Children in a Democracy and from the activities of the Children's Bureau which was authorized by Congress in 1912—an evidence of the concern of the Federal Government for the child. The White House Conference of 1929, which resulted in a series of surveys and studies on various aspects of child welfare, found that more than ten million children in the United States under 16 years of age were deprived of normal life because of malnourishment, defective speech, heart disease, tuberculosis, deafness, blindness, crippledness, mental deficiency, behavior problems, delinquency, and dependency.' This means that approximately one of every four children was found to be in need of special care, special training, medical aid, more expert guidance, elimination or improvement of conditions adversely affecting his physical and mental welfare. These conditions were aggravated during the depression years which followed this third White House Conference, and under stress of the times some of the services already established for children were seriously curtailed and éven discontinued entirely. Then, in 1934, President Roosevelt appointed a Committee on Economic Security which developed the outlines of a social security program which were later incorporated into the Social Security Act—the most far-reaching public welfare statute in the history of the United States. This Act marked a new epoch in child welfare through inclusion of "Leona B. Fetzer, 'Some Aspects of Child Welfare," Relief Society Magazine, February, 1941, pp. 87-90. ¢ widespread, effective, and permanent provision for various services to children in all parts of the nation. Five years ago—in February, 1936— funds were first made available from the United States Treasury for the various benefits for which the Social Security Act, passed in August, 1935, provides." Because a home atmosphere charged with economic fear and insecurity adversely affects the physical and mental welfare of children, every protection for the security of the family and the home offered by the Social Security Act—including those relating to unemployment compensation and benefits for the aged— gives more security to the children of the families concerned. However, this Act includes four provisions explicitly relating to the care and protection of children— Title IV: Aid to Dependent Children Title V: Part 1—Maternal and Child-Health Services Part 2—Services for Crippled Children Part 3—ChildWelfare Services The 1939 amendments to the Social Security Act becoming effective as of January 1, 1940, added a fifth resource for children when the provision of the original act relating to old-age benefits was changed to authorize the payment of old-age insurance benefits to surviving widows and to children under the age of eighteen years. This compulsory insurance plan applies chiefly to industrial workers, and is the only pro- *For brief summary of all provisions of the Social Security Act, see "Public Welfare Provisions,' by Vera W. Pohlman, Relief Society Magazine, November, 1940, pp. 767-775. Vision of the Social Security Acf administered directly by the Federal Government (through the Social Security Board) requiring neither acceptance nor financial participation by the states. His service is too new, especially in view of recent amendments, to be discussed here in greater detail, but it will ultimately decrease the need for direct grants of aid for dependent children in the families where breadwinners covered by this type of insurance are removed by death. The provision for aid to dependent children is the only one allowing for direct cash grants for maintenance of children in the homes of parents or relatives; this provision is administered by the Social Security Board which was created by authorization of the Social Security Act. The other three children's provisions of the Act are for special services for children, especially for those in rural areas and in areas of special need, and all three are administered by the Children's Bureau. The availability of all four benefits for children of each state is dependent on the state's acceptance of the provisions, on the matching of Federal grants for these purposes with a certain proportion of state funds, and in compliance with the terms of administration of these grants as set forth in the Social Security Act. A brief description of these provisions, each of which is now operative in all or most communities of the United States, follows: AID TO DEPENDENT CHILDREN The 1909 White House Conference on the Care of Dependent CHILD-WELFARE PROVISIONS OF THE SOCIAL SECURITY ACT 185 186 Children made a strong declaration in favor of the care of children in their own homes, as indicated by the following excerpts from the recommendations of the Conference— "Home life is the highest and finest production of civilization. It is the great molding force of mind and character. Children should not be deprived of it except for urgent and compelling reasons. Except in unusual circumstances, the home should not be broken up for reasons of poverty, but only for considerations of inefficiency or immorality. As to the children who for sufficient reasons must be removed from their own homes, or who have no homes, it is desirable that, if normal in mind and body and not requiring special training, they should be cared for in fam- _ ilies whenever practicable. The carefully selected foster home is for the normal child the best substitute for the natural home." Following this conference, the "widows' pension" movement swept the country, beginning with the first state statute in 1911, and by 1920 the majority of states had passed such statutes, which were known as 'mothers' aid" or "widows' pension" laws. Utah's first legislation providing for mothers' aid was enacted in 1913. The object of these laws was to provide maintenance from public funds for children in their own homes so that widowed mothers without means of support would not be under the necessity of placing their children in orphanages, sending them to live with relatives, or leaving them unsupervised while employed away from home. However, this type of aid was not available in all localities because most of the state laws were not mandatory but simply permitted counties to provide this type of aid, and only a very few states assisted the local units of government with 

 

 Py matching state funds. As the depression years advanced, tax collections declined and increasing numbers of unemployed families sought public relief. | Consequently, the ability of local units of government to finance mothers' aid diminished with the result that the "pensions" were reduced and, in some counties, entirely discontinued. In some communities, the funds available for mothers' aid were distributed on a pro rata basis to all eligible applicants, resulting in very low grants, and in others the recipients were limited to the number for whom the available funds could provide more adequately, with the result that long waiting lists became longer. This was the situation when the first Federal funds became available in February, 1936, for aid to dependent children under terms of Title IV of the Social Security Act. These Federal funds, procurable by states only on a matching basis, and only in states making this type of aid mandatory in all counties of the state, stimulated increased county funds and the provision of state funds for this purpose, resulting in a great expansion of aid to dependent children throughout the nation. In October, 1940, the latest month for which published figures are available, 42 states issued grants of aid under terms of the Social Security Act. In nine other states, aid to dependent children was administered locally without Federal participation. These data indicate that this type of aid is now available in every state of the nation, including the District of Columbia and the territories of Alaska and Hawaii. The Social Security Act defines a dependent child as— "|,. A needy child under the age of sixteen, or under the age of eighteen if found by the state agency to be regularly attending school, who has been deprived of parental support or care by reason of the death, continued absence from the home, or physical or mental incapacity of a parent, and who is living with his father, mother, grandfather, grandmother, brother, sister, stepfather, stepmother, stepbrother, stepsister, uncle, or aunt, in a place of residence maintained by one or more of such relatives as his or their own home.'"* The provisions of this Act make it unnecessary for a mother who is widowed, deserted, divorced, sepatated, or unmarried, and who is with- - out sufficient income, to neglect her young children to seek employment, to place them in an orphanage for support, or to break up her home and apportion her children among relatives. Aid may be extended not only for fatherless or motherless children, but also for children living with both parents but whose father is disabled and unable to support them, or whose father or mother is either temporarily or permanently in an institution, such as a prison, a hospital, or an asylum for the insane. Under this provision, it is also possible for an orphaned or otherwise homeless child whose relatives are willing to care for him but are unable to support him, to be maintained in the home of relatives, rather than in an institution. Grants of aid for dependent children must be in the form of cash and must be paid direct to eligible individuals in their own homes. The Federal Government pays one-half of the individual cash grant up to a maximum of $18 for one child and $12 for each additional child in the 'Social Security Act, Title IV, Section 406. Same family for children under 16 years of age, or 18 years if regularly attending school. In Utah, the state law stipulates that counties pay 15 per cent of these grants; the remaining 35 per cent is derived from the state sales tax. Inasmuch as the Social Security Act specifies that grants must be made on the basis of need in each individual family, the amounts paid may be less than the maximum which is matchable from Federal funds, and in extreme cases of need, even more may be paid, but the extra amount must come solely from state and county funds. In Utah, need is determined in each instance through an investigation by a case worker in the County Department of Public Welfare. Applications for this type of aid may be made by the parent or relative with whom the child lives direct to the local agency, usually the Department of Public Welfare, which administers this type of aid in the county in which the applicant resides. Most states, including Utah, impose the maximum residence restriction allowed by the Social Security Act, which is that the child for whom application is made must have lived for at least one year in the state in which application is made. There is no requirement that either the child or the parents or relatives with whom he lives be citizens of the United States. MATERNAL AND CHILDHEALTH SERVICES The 1919 White House Conference on Child-Welfare Standards was most influential in regard to the protection of maternity and infancy. It formulated and publicized minimum standards for maternity and CHILD-WELFARE PROVISIONS OF THE SOCIAL SECURITY ACT 187 infancy protection which aroused the nation and culminated in the enactment of the Sheppard-Towner Infancy and Maternity Act. This Act which was passed by Congress in November, 1922, and carried authorization for a five-year period, was subsequently extended for two additional years. 'Thus, it expired by limitation in 1929, at the onset of the depression, with the result that maternal and child-health services were greatly curtailed or entirely discontinued because state and local funds were needed in rapidly increasing amounts for relief of the unemployed. The functioning of the Sheppard-Towner Act for a period of seven years demonstrated the effectiveness of health activities fostered and aided by the Federal Government but carried on by the states and localities with substantial additional funds contributed by them. These services were chiefly in the nature of prenatal clinics for examination and instruction of expectant mothers, and child-health centers for examination and immunization of children. These services were renewed on a permanent basis through provisions of the Social Security Act of 1935. The Relief Society became actively interested in the first Federal-state cooperative undertaking for maternal and child health under the provisions of the Sheppard-Towner Act. It was in anticipation of this service that the Society, seven months prior to the final passage of the Act, took action at its semi-annual general conference in April, 1922, recommending the centralization of the Society's wheat trust fund and the use of interest accruing thereon for health 

 

 work, with emphasis on maternity care and child welfare. This action stimulated the interest and participation of local Relief Societies in maternal and child welfare, an interest which has actively continued until the present time, despite the intervening period of six years between 1929 and 1936 when the lack of Federal funds for this purpose greatly curtailed the services of states in this respect. The local Societies helped to sponsor prenatal and baby clinics, provided funds for remedial and preventive treatment, such as dental work and removal of tonsils, supplied Relief Society cabinets with layettes and maternity bundles, and endowed hospital beds for maternity use. In connection with this program,  

 

 of the extra service given to demonstrate the need for and the value of correcting defects which are found through examination at the schools and health conferences. Public funds are insufficient to provide for needed corrective dental, medical, and surgical attention for all those unable to pay for such care, but the services of this nature which have been provided from the funds for maternal and child-health work have not only met urgent needs in the few demonstration areas where they have been available, but have stimulated various community cooperative plans for bringing physicians and dentists into communities and for arranging for corrective care for those unable to pay. A decided decline in maternal and infant death rates has accompanied the resumption of maternal and child-health services under the Social Security Act. Approximately 10,000 mothers are alive today who would have died in the last four years if the maternal mortality rate of 1935 had remainedunchanged. There are approximately 28,000 children alive today who would have died in infancy during the last four years if the infant death rate of 1935 had continued to prevail.' Although significant gains have been made in extending maternal and child-health services, especially in rural areas, reports. Show striking evidence of need for further expansion. The need for immediate expansion of these services is considered to be especially urgent now because of the intensi- 'Edwin F. Daily, "Annual Report to Maternal and Child-Health Advisory Committee," issued by Children's Bureau, 10 pp. Mimeographed. fied and additional problems created by the national defense program. The defense program has caused rapid increase in populations in villages, towns, and cities adjacent to military camps and in those with rapidly expanding defense industries. Such expansion brings urgent problems of health protection, particularly for children and mothers in the families of industrial workers and enlisted men. SERVICES FOR CRIPPLED CHILDREN Services for crippled children are provided under Title V, Part 2, of the Social Security Act, which authorizes appropriations of Federal funds to the states to help them— "extend and improve (especially in rural areas and in areas suffering from severe economic distress) services for locating crippled children, and for providing medical, surgical, corrective, and other services and care, and facilities for diagnosis, hospitalization, and aftercare for children who are crippled or who are suffering from conditions which lead to crippling.'""® This title of the Social Security Act is administered by the Children's Bureau, which cooperates with the agency in each state to which responsibility for this program is assigned. In Utah, this service is conducted by a division of the State Board of Health. The greater part of the Federal appropriation is available to states only on a matching basis; the proportion available without matching is for distribution to states on the basis of need, including states unable to match the offered Federal funds, states where epidemics of infantile paralysis oc- "Social Security Act, 511. Title V, Section cur, and states where there is an especially large number of children in need of care, or where costs are greater than average. Services for crippled children, under provisions of the Social Security Act, are now in effect in all 48 states, in the District of Columbia, and in the territories of Alaska, Hawaii, and Puerto Rico. In addition to locating and treating crippled children, part of the funds are also used to assist professional workers to secure special training in their various fields in the interest of service to crippled children, such as orthopedic nursing, publichealth nursing, physiotherapy, and medical social work. Certain special services are also being developed in various states, as, for example, the speech correction which is being provided in Utah and Hawaii for children who have been operated on for harelip and cleft-palate deformities. 'Teaching programs for crippled children in their own homes are carried on as WPA projects in Arizona, Colorado, the District of Columbia, and Montana.' All crippled children whose families are unable to pay for the needed corrective treatment are eligible for care under this program, including children in families with incomes adequate to provide the basic necessities of life but inadequate to meet the cost of specialized care which the crippled child requires. Most of the states accept for care children up to 21 years of age. Anyone may report to the local public-health nurse (or County Department of "Robert C. Hood, M. D., "Progress Re port on Services for Crippled Children," The Child, September, 1940, pp. 69-72. CHILD-WELFARE PROVISIONS OF THE SOCIAL SECURITY ACT 191 192 Public Welfare) a crippled child in need of care, and any family with a crippled child may make application for examination and treatment. The state agency then arranges for the examination of the child unless his family is in a position to arrange and pay for the needed care. Under terms of the Social Security Act, treatment for a crippled child may be provided entirely without charge to the family, or on the basis of part pay, according to the circumstances of the family. Permanent diagnostic clinics have been established in most of the states, usually in hospitals or medical centers, and traveling clinics are used to reach for examination the children in areas not served by the permanent clinics. These traveling clinics are held from time to time in centers accessible to all parts of the state. Wherever necessary, aftercare is provided in convalescent and foster homes, thereby reducing the number of days of hospital care. Although the public funds made available under: the Social Security Act for services for crippled children are used to pay the major costs involved in treatment and care, funds are not available from this source for transportation of crippled children to and from clinics for examination, nor between their homes and points where hospitalization or other treatment is given. Neither can these funds be spent to provide clothing for crippled children under care. The state agency administering services for crippled children relies on local community agencies and resources for meeting these needs, and local Relief Societies are cooperating in many instances. Local agencies are also asked to provide 

 

 for other necessary care for dependent crippled children, such as _ removal of tonsils and dental service. Each state agency administering services for crippled children is developing a register of all crippled children in the state up to 21 years of age, irrespective of whether they are under care. By March 31, 1940, crippled children already registered by 51 states numbered 255,000. The information so far available indicates that from one-fifth to one-quarter of the total number were crippled by infantile paralysis (poliomyelitis). It is reported, however, that— "Ten years ago infantile paralysis was the leading cause of crippling, with birth injuries and congenital defects as close seconds. Tuberculosis came third, and ac: cidents fourth. Today the picture has changed to birth injuries and congenital defects as leading causes, accidents second, infantile paralysis third, and tuberculosis fourth. 'This emphasizes the importance of strengthening our prenatal and obstetrical services and intensifying accident pre: vention.'" The state agency administering services for crippled children also refers crippled children 16 years of age and over who are ready for vocational training to the state vocational rehabilitation service for the physically handicapped, which is connected with the Department of Public Instruction in the various states. This service also operates with funds provided on a matching Federalstate basis, and Federal funds already provided for this purpose were supplemented by additional funds authorized by the Social Security *Richard Arthur Bolt, "Progress in Saving Maternal and Child Life," The Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science, Vol. 212, (November, 1940) Pp. 97-104. Act, Title V, Part 4. This service gives to those who are permanently handicapped vocational training within their capabilities so that they may be able to earn their own livelihood. CHILD-WELFARE SERVICES The need for Federal aid for services. To socially-handicapped children was recognized by the 1930 White House Conference on Child Care and Protection, which declared that every child in special need has a tight to service from a public welfare organization, and recommended that Federal grants-in-aid be made available to the areas most in need of such service to children and least able to provide it." Child-welfare services are provided under Title V, Part 3, of the Social Security Act, which authorizes an annual appropriation for grants to the states for "establishing, extending, and strengthening, especially in predominantly rural areas, child-welfare services for the protection and care of homeless, dependent, and neglected children, and children in danger of becoming delinquent." The Federal funds, to which state and local funds are added, are not available for maintenance of children but are used for service only in rural areas and for developing state services "for the encouragement and assistance of adequate methods of community child-welfare organizations in areas predominantly rural and other areas of special need." 'This provision of the Social Security Act is administered ®*Mary Irene Atkinson, "Child Welfare Services," The Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science, Vol. 202, (March, 1940) pp. 8-87. By the Children's Bureau through state departments of public welfare. Plans for these services are developed jointly by the Children's Bureau and the state welfare agency. Child-welfare services are now in effect in all 48 states, the District of Columbia, Alaska, Hawaii, and Puerto Rico, covering more than one-sixth of the total rural counties in the United States. Significant aspects of this provision of the Social Security Act are the emphasis on rural needs and the prevention of delinquency. The child-welfare worker, serving in rural areas and small towns under provision of this Act, deals with children's problems at their source, before homes are broken up and children separated from their parents or relatives. Most of the service by child-welfare workers is furnished to children in their own homes—children in danger of becoming delinquent because of their environment; children who present conduct problems in the school, in the home, or the community; children in need of treatment or special training because of physical handicaps; mentally defective children for whose care plans must be made; and children whose home conditions threaten their physical or social wellbeing. These social services for children are available, in communities where established, to all children in need of them, irrespective of economic need. The child-welfare worker, who is on the staff of the local County Department of Public Welfare, studies the problems of the child who may be referred to her by the schools, the juvenile court, the police, the Relief Society or other agencies, the neighbors, or the CHILD-WELFARE PROVISIONS OF THE SOCIAL SECURITY ACT 193 194 child's own family, and determines what the child needs and what arrangements can be made to meet his needs at home, at school, in the community, or, if necessary, in the hospital, a foster home, or an institution. Child-welfare services also help to stimulate general awareness of children's problems and community cooperation for improving conditions surrounding children. As child-welfare services become available in rural areas, the number of children coming before juvenile courts tends to decrease. EXTENSIVE UNMET NEEDS Although great progress has been made since the four provisions of the Social Security Act relating directly to children became effective five years ago, the unmet needs of underprivileged children throughout the nation are still appalling. The adequacy of grants of aid to dependent children depend in large measure on the extent to which the states and local communities can match the available Federal funds, and these grants are pitifully low in some sections of the nation. The trend of recent years with respect to pensions for the aged, who with voting franchise form pressure groups as children cannot, has resulted in much more adequate maintenance provisions for the dependent aged than for dependent children. An aged couple may well be receiving as much as a widow with five or six chil-. Dren. Furthermore, there is an enormous group of underprivileged children in the homes of the unemployed, including the migratory families, who are ineligible for grants of aid to dependent children because of the employability of the father, and 

 

 for whom general relief allowances are usually even lower than grants of aid for dependent children. Child-welfare services have so far been extended to only about onesixth of the total rural counties of the United States, but the experience in these limited areas has already demonstrated tragic lacks in social services for treating children's problems. About 1,000 rural counties in the United States still do not have the services of even one publichealth nurse; in many of the counties where such service is available, there are no funds for providing home delivery service or hospital care of mothers when needed at time of delivery, and no means of obtaining treatment of illness of mothers and children. Thousands of children still die each year from communicable diseases; widespread inadequacy of nutrition is responsible for many cases of deficiency diseases in children and for increased severity of much illness; there' are thousands of children handicapped with crippling conditions other than orthopedic and plastic impairments. "For example, it has been estimated that there are approximately 400,000 children suffering from rheumatic heart disease; approximately 60,000 children with severe visual defects; and 7 to 10 million children with refractive errors. Approximately 2 million children have defective hearing, and more than two-thirds of school children have dental defects. The state and Federal funds now available are insufficient to meet these needs." These facts, and the following statement by Homer Folks at the first session of the White House *Robert C. Hood, M. D., "Progress Report on Services for Crippled Children," The Child, September, 1940, pp. 69-72. Conference on Children in a Democracy, present a challenge to Relief Society workers everywhere, and give indication of some of the welfare services which they might sponsor— "Somewhere within these United States, within the past few years, was born a child who will be elected in 1980 to the most responsible office in the world, the Presidency of the United States. We cannot guess his name or whereabouts. He may come from any place and from any social or economic group. He may now be in the home of one of the soft-coal miners, or in the family of a sharecropper, or quite possibly in the home of one of the unemployed, or in a family migrating from the Dust Bowl, or he may be surrounded with every facility, convenience, and protection which money can buy. "If we could unroll the scroll of the future enough to read his name and whereabouts, how many things we would wish to have done for him, how carefully we would wish to guard his health, his surroundings, his education, his associates, his travels, his ambitions." What we might wish to do for that unknown child, the future President, we must be ready to do for every child, so that he may be ready to live a full life, satisfying to himself and useful to his community and Nation." "General Report Adopted by the White House Conference on Children in a Democracy, pp. 83-84, Children's Bureau Publication No. 266, Washington, 1940.