A Prophetic Program For Women Ramona W. Cannon A PRIL 28, 1842, a few weeks after the organization of the Female Relief Society of Nauvoo, the Prophet Joseph Smith gave a second memorable address to the women. Eliza R. Snow, the secretary, recorded it, partly as a summary and partly in the Prophet's own words. (History of the Church, by Joseph Smith, compiled by B. H. Roberts, Vol. IV, pp. 602-607). Like the Constitution of our country, this speech is worth many readings and deep reflection, for it is a masterpiece of inspired human expression. It is colored with the lights and shadows of many emotions; it is wise with "Brother Joseph's" understanding of his fellow creatures; recurrently, it rises to heights of prophetic grandeur. Our sympathies are touched by the Prophet's weariness of soul, indicated in the instructions: "Let this Society teach women... To treat them (their husbands) with mildness and affection. When a man is borne down with trouble, when he is perplexed with care and difficulty, if he can meet a smile instead of an argument or a murmur—if he can meet with mildness, it will calm down his soul and soothe his feelings; when the mind is going to despair, it needs a solace of affection and kindness." The Prophet spoke of difficulties —persecutions from without and trials from within, especially from carping criticism and from "envious and aspiring men and women." He exhorted the sisters to concentrate their faith and prayers on their husbands, and also on the faithful men whom God had placed at the head of His Church to lead His people. Sister Snow writes his instructions thus: "We should arm and sustain them (these leaders) with our prayers; for the keys of the kingdom are about to be given to them, that they may be able to detect everything false." Is it not a tribute to women that their prayers were felt to be needed and efficacious in so great a cause? President Smith also said to the women: "You must put down iniquity and, by your good examples, stimulate the Elders to good works." A touch of Gethsemane is manifested in Joseph's foreboding of the imminence of his own death and his realization of the misunderstanding and rejection of himself and his message by the world he loved and fain would save. He said he would take this opportunity of instructing the ladies of the Society how to conduct themselves, that they might act according to the will of God, for they were going to be left to themselves. Neither they nor the Church would long have him to instruct them, and "the world would not be troubled with him a great while, and would not have his teachings (personally)." These, with other pronouncements, form a lofty and solemn background for the famous utterance so charged with prophetic import to women: "And I now turn the key in your behalf in the name of the Lord, and this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence A PROPHETIC PROGRAM FOR WOMEN shall flow down from this time henceforth." THAT metaphor, "turn the key," comprises a world of significance. One turns a key to open a door. With what lay on one side of that figurative door, the Relief Society sisters were familiar. The Prophet Joseph suggested the treasures that were about to be made available on the other side, and outlined the method of attaining them. We of this century can appreciate the swinging open of that door only if we understand the condition of women at that time. It is a puzzling fact that women's position then was much more advanced in Italy, France, and Sweden, and somewhat mote so in Germany, than in America. Her legal and industrial status was low, but these countries did not deny women educational and intellectual activities. In the thirteenth century in Italy, a few women held chairs in universities; they wrote widely-accepted books, then and later. In France, they wrote and controlled. Much of the thought of the day by the influence of their salons and through their privilege of owning property and thus handling money and subsidizing talent. In Germany, Martin Luther advocated free education for every boy and girl; and Gustavus Adolfus, with able support, brought about 100 per cent literacy in Sweden. In the England of Elizabeth, woman was a power. The brilliant and marvelously-trained intellects of Lady Jane Grey and of the Queen herself were not the only lights among the feminine sex which illuminated that wonder-age, when 161 reforms were born which lifted the world to higher levels. But under the reign of the Stuarts a decadence set in, and woman's position was lowered. From the ideals of this period came the heritage which the Colonists brought with them to the new country. Many of the colonial dames burned with as ardent a desire for personal liberty and opportunity as did their patriot husbands. Their principal spokeswomen were Mrs. Mercy Otis Warren and Abigail Adams, the wife of President John Adams. Of Mrs. Warren, it is recorded that she was the first to advocate the Colonies' independence from Great Britain, and that she imbued 'the men with that idea. Rouchefoucauld said of her: "Seldom has a woman in any age acquired such ascendency by the mere force of a powerful intellect." = (Woman's Work in America, compiled by Annie Nathan Meyer, p. 256) Mrs. Adams never spent a day in school in her life, yet she had a remarkably cultivated mind. How did she achieve this? It has been explained that such self-educated people of the past acquired their knowledge through a natural logic—the selftaught art of thinking; attentive notice of every instructive fact and occurrence; conversations of deep import around the fireside; and reading which, though scant, was from the deepest wells of English literature, especially the Bible. While Mr. Adams was in Europe, Mrs. Adams managed the cultivation of the estate, discussing the weather and crops, watching prices and rates of exchange, directing the making up of invoices; and at the same time, she 162 was writing exalted sentiments to her son. She had a brilliant mind for statesmanship, as well, which surprised her husband. She longed for women's rights and fearlessly advocated them. She knew they were deserved, for the women had saved the Colonies from defeat in the darkest days of the Revolution by raising money—begging for it and selling their own property to get it —to buy arms and ammunition for their men. They had melted their prized pewter and had run it into bullets; they had raised grain and gathered it themselves and fed the poor and feeble with the bread. Hungry and cold, they had fired their men with patriotism, and they had refused to marry youths who had not served their country. So, with some confidence, Abigail Adams wrote to her husband after victory had come: "I desire that (in the new code of laws) you will remember the women, and be more generous and honorable to them than your ancestors. Do not put such unlimited power into the hands of husbands. All men would be tyrants if they could. Such of you as wish to be happy, willingly give up the harsh title of master for the more tender and endearing one of friend. Why not put it out of the power of the fierce and lawless to use us with cruelty and indignity?" (Woman's Work in America, compiled by Annie Nathan Meyer) When the Constitution was framed without any recognition of the rights of women, Abigail Adams was indignant. This far-seeing woman had especially pleaded for equal education for boys and girls: "If we mean to 

 

 have heroes, statesmen, and philosophers, we should have learned women." Here was her answer: In Massachusetts, Harvard College was founded for boys in 1636; there were no colleges there for females until 232 years later, and it was 150 years before there were any seminaries or academies for girls. The word "children," in reference to education in New England, meant boys, and girls were not admitted even to the free elementary schools provided for poor and Indian "children" for 150 years. Two housewives who taught a dame school, where they instructed little girls from one book, the New England Primer, and taught them manners, divided between them their year's salary of ten shillings, or $2.50. In Newburyport, Massachusetts, it was decided, in 1791, to have three or four schools for girls between the ages of five and nine, to be "furnished with dames to learn them good manners and proper decency of behaviour." In 1804, the town voted for four girls' schools to be kept open six months of the year from six to eight o'clock in the mornings and on Thursday afternoons. In 1828, girls still did not go to school in Rhode Island. In Hatfield, an influential citizen appealed to the town meeting for permission to send his daughters to the free school. A townsman cried sharply, "Hatfield school shall? Never!" When Doctor Pierce traveled through Georgia in 1836 to collect funds for a female college, the usual answer was similar to this: "I would not have one of your graduates for a wife, and I will not give you a cent." Horace Mann, the famous New England educator, tried and failed to introduce coeducation into college work in Massachusetts. So he moved to the West and became first president of Antioch College, coeducational, in Yellow Springs, Ohio, in 1853. He sacrificed his life in overcoming obstacles there. Apparently the college failed, for in 1860 the only college open to women was Oberlin, in Ohio. Also, it was not proper for women to attend public lectures or to appear in public assemblies other than religious ones. About 1815, Miss Hannah Adams, an author, invaded the Boston public library to read. Boston citizens were shocked and declared her out of her sphere. The Revolutionary women's desire for suffrage and equality before the law, naturally, was not gratified either.
Great advancement was made toward these wished-for goals from the time when William Lloyd Garrison launched his anti-slavery campaign in 1831. Gifted women became abolitionists and worked with the men. But they became too popular and influential to please the men, and in many places they were forbidden to act or vote in the Anti-Slavery Society. However, six or eight women were sent to London to the World Anti-Slavery Convention, along with America's men delegates. These quiet, cultured, charming women, some young and beautiful, some of them Quakers, alarmed the men who knew that "they had turned the world upside down in America." The Convention debated and voted to exclude these women, some of the American men themselves voting against them. Garrison, in protest, sat in the spectators' gallery the entire ten days, refusing to take any part. When Lucretia Mott and the bride, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, returned to America, they, with their husbands, Mr. Garrison, and others, began to campaign for women's rights in earnest. They asked for equal rights with men in colleges, universities, trades, and professions; equal suffrage rights; equal rights to political offices; equal property and marriage rights; equality in the care of minor children; equal wages for equal work; the right to make contracts, to sue and be sued, and to serve on juries, especially where women were being tried. The Civil War, when women again took over the management of business, charities, farms, schools—everything—hastened the fulfillment of many of these demands. Fulfillment has come about by degrees, however—in some cases, nationally; in others, only by individual states. Knowing conditions, the violent conflicts and prejudices of the past and even of the present, in regard to women's rights and activities, we better understand Joseph Smith's vision of women's possibilities and powers and better appreciate the calm, dignified expression of his ideas. How deeply he understood the constructive possibilities of cooperation, as opposed to the popular antagonism between men and women, and how beautifully the women of the Church responded! Perhaps we should remind ourselves that Emma Smith had already been called, less than four months after the organization of the Church, to expound the Scriptures, select hymns, and exhort the Church; and before the exodus from Nauvoo, the Prophet's mother delivered an address at a conference held in the Temple. Then, on that April day, the Prophet complimented the Relief Society women on their organization, their order, and their parliamentary proceedings. Some objectors to woman suffrage have felt that equality with men would make women desire to get away from their homes and use their freedom selfishly or for evil purposes. Joseph Smith depended on the instincts of women to be homemakers, to be charitable and kind, and to do good. He exhorted virtue in their own lives, and that they provoke the brethren to good works. The power and the privileges he gave them were a sacred trust, never to be abused. He warned them that women were inclined to be contracted in their views. "You must enlarge your souls toward each other.... You must be long-suffering, and bear with the faults and errors of mankind." A great and glorious reward in the Celestial Kingdom was promised those who obeyed the Prophet's teachings, but again note the exhortation, "... You must be innocent or you cannot come up before God; if we would come before God, we must keep ourselves pure as He is pure." Ellen Key, who thought profoundly on the woman question, came to the conclusion that women either sink with men or rise with them. Joseph Smith said that the faithful members of the Relief Society should receive the keys of the Priesthood "in connection with their husbands." He said also: "As far as knowledge is concerned, it may extend to all the world." And he reminded the sisters: "We are all responsible to God for the manner we improve the light and wisdom given by our Lord to enable us to save ourselves." He later revealed that faithful husbands and wives were to receive the gift of eternal family relations and eternal progress. This is the great end of earth-existence, and this, in very deed, means rising with the men. How have the Prophet's words to that group of Relief Society women been fulfilled? Over a period of almost a century, its members have fed, clothed, nursed, prepared for burial, succored, and comforted millions in America and throughout the world. In countless patterns of existence, they have brought life to "the highest possible level" as the Prophet urged them to do. Their influence has been felt in nonsectarian women's organizations throughout America. This servant of God also promised the women that if they lived up to their privileges, the angels could not be restrained from associating with them. I have sat in Relief Society meetings where I have felt that truly the angels were not far away. And when I have seen the charm, poise, sweetness and dignity of many women officiating in this great work in different parts of the world, I have realized what this organization has done for them as individuals. Surely men, too, are proud of such women and are filled with joy that the Prophet had the vision to organize Relief Society.