Women, the Builders of Spirituality Anna Ross Hart
Two summers ago, several of us were standing in the Cathedral Church of Saint John the Divine in New York. We were conscious of its magnitude and general beauty; of the sculptured marble and carved oak; of the inlaid mosaic and embroidered and woven fabric. We were told that the foundations of this stone Cathedral were in the living rock, built to stand for thousands of years. All this impressed us, but most of all did we admire The Great Rose window, one of the valued windows of the world. We marveled at the color and design. The light played on the figures made of ten thousand pieces of glass until they were distinct and unusually beautiful to see. The individual sections of glass had been shaped with infinite care to make one great precious whole. The light enhanced it and gradually played with its moods and shades. I thought of the influence of that light. How fascinating it would be to watch through the hours its balancing light and shadow. At night all the beauty of the window might be lost; the intricate color and design dimmed in darkness. Is not spirituality the illumination which brings color and design to us? We can say because of this light, "O world invisible, we view thee." (Francis Thompson)
We are just one year from our century goal. Our interest is keen; we are turned in one direction; obstacles appear easy to overcome at this moment. We are constantly checking up on our attainments: social growth of women, physical advancement, growth of numbers, cultural growth. At this time, let us think of our great organization of women as builders of spirituality. What is spirituality? It is that quality that lights the individual and brings out of him the best. It is that in an individual which causes him ever to look up and to see; that quality which has caused hope to loom at the time of greatest crises. It is the result of meditation and active living; that quality which gives complete balance to life. Often it strikes the most responsive chords in our associates. It brings the whole soul of man into activity. Again, it is contagious and comes from close association with those who have it. It reaches homes and is the companion of good thoughts. Often it is a result of persecution and a reward for living the "good life". It is the culmination of deepest understanding. Job was chided by Elihu, who said, "But there is a spirit in man and the inspiration of the Almighty giveth them understanding." (Job 32:8) Spirituality often fills our hearts so that words may not be wholly intelligible. It grows when cultivated. It is concerned with the development of personalities and the realization of the highest of ideals. "Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in Heaven is perfect," Spirituality involves the "enduring attitudes" of a spiritual life: faith, hope and love. It is the link which has kept God and man connected: the light in our lives.
To list activities of women which have influenced the spiritual life of the world would be to list pages of items; to touch on women from Eve of ages past to Madame Curie; to touch periods centuries before Christ to the immediate present. Because of their very nature, women have prayed. Because of the very mystery of birth, women have reached the fringe of heaven and have received glimpses of the greatest of experiences. What have been women's efforts in the home? Their efforts have been similar, that of rearing children to become honorable men and women. That was the duty and enjoyable privilege of Sarah of old, who gave to her child of promise her richest devotion; of Elizabeth who was honored to know through the promptings of the spirit of the coming of Christ; of Mary the Mother of Christ, and of present-day mothers. Have these women not adorned the homes from hovels to palaces; have they not given guidance to the infant, and the man? Have they not exposed members of the home to the best things on earth: art that expresses great truth, music that gives depth of experience, attitudes for responding to situations happily, lives purposefully lived? They have enriched life by material benefits, and sincere cooperation. They have instilled in children the dignity of work and the dangers of inactivity—the dangers that cause the spirit of man to lose its force, "like iron that lying about degenerates into a mass of useless rust, like water that in an unruffled pool sickens into a stagnant and corrupt state." These women through the ages of time have grown spiritually, loved integrity and truth and instilled in their children the courage needed to withstand temptations. The truly spiritual woman has given her children early moral ideals, has gardened youth intensively. The truly great woman of all ages is not a product of cities, of progress. Her greatness "recognizes no geographic limitations. It flowers on farms as well as in industrial and cultural centers. It possesses a delicate and fragile quality which shrinks from publicity and headlines and oftenest, like Maeterlinck's blue bird, it is found close to home." ("When is a Woman Great?" A. S. Richardson, Woman's Home Companion, 63:4; April, 1936.) The mission of the spiritual mother has been the climax of human opportunities for woman. She has been greater than any ruler, because she has had the "power to fashion the character of her subjects." She has been greater than any statesman, "because while he makes the laws she molds the character of the lawmakers and determines the destiny of nations." Surely her responsibility has been solemn and her mission sublime. Women have grown spiritually through cultural experiences. Literature has increased their world. They have been zealous in creating beauty. They have brought music and art into their lives. They have achieved self-mastery in creative activities—raising a choice flower, preparing a delicious meal, writing a great book. They have believed that to be an art, living must be gained by their own efforts. They have measured success not by wealth or speed, but by "the quality of intellectual and spiritual interests." For ages women have served their husbands and their children. This has grown to a great ministering of their fellowmen. Today women are reaching out to the whole world. From the hearts of women, in the ages past and in our generation, have constantly come prayers for peace; not only the stand still of arms of war but that peace of mind and soul which comes at moments of security; that peace which comes because of no regrets; that peace which can come in the midst of outer confusion. It is indeed that spiritual peace which Jesus left. "Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you: not as the world giveth, give I unto you." (John 14:27)
And now at the fringe of our hundredth year, we may well review the spiritual growth of women. We may well be aware of the great Centennial that will bind all women of our great organization closer together. The great deeds done in common, the acts of heroic service performed side by side, the cooperation of great services to humanity, the love of women for women, common spiritual ideals; all these have bound and are binding our women closer together. Let us give praise to all who have contributed to our spiritual growth—to the Hebrew who gave us religion; the Greek who gave us standards of thought and beauty; the Roman who gave us law and order; the pioneer who gave us strength and courage; our present-day woman, who has all of these merged into a new spiritual self. She still suffers, loves, succeeds, prays and serves. New light may still bring out in her more precious design and color. Through a desire for spiritual growth, she will have the exquisite and serene distinction, the radiance of a good life, that has always been deeply loved. And when the century mark has been reached, she can say with Angela Morgan, "Glad is the earth when morn is breaking—Man is facing the rising sun!" She recognizes that she is heir of all ages. She can see into the future, because of her courage and hopefulness of spirit. She knows now that the highest goal is the summit where spirituality and intellectuality stand side by side and that to attain it life requires the beautiful and well-rounded life. Women are the builders of spirituality; a spirituality which is permanent and has in it something of the universal; a spirituality which comes through varied and complex activities and services; a spirituality which is the result of deep faith; a spirituality which is not static; a spirituality which gains momentum; a spirituality which radiates the human face. May we, as women at this period of achievement, have the appreciation, the deeper awareness, the peace, the trust, "the power, the dignity, the supremacy which comes from real spirituality," that spirituality which promotes to eternal exaltation.