Watchman, What Of The Hour? Annie Wells Cannon WOMEN of today are wondering how they will meet the challenge of a changing world, which now seems so imminent. In past ages, women, too, have pondered this question, met the crises, and played their parts on the world's great stage. Relatively speaking, the pages of history do not abound in_ heroic deeds of women, save in exceptional cases where a name shines forth like a magnificent star in a constellation of satellites. This is true, because early historians mostly chose to record the spectacular adventures of rulers and warriors in fields of conquest. And yet, among the heroines of antiquity were some women whose fate or fancy led them into the fields so largely claimed by men. The beautiful Assyrian queen, Semiramis, who founded the city of Babylon, made a royal progress through her vast and constantly-extending empire at the head of her great army. No less brave and lovely was Zenobia, of Palmyra, who rode, dressed in a coat of mail, at the head of a great army, against the Persians and shared with her kingly husband the glory of conquest. Of later period came Joan of Arc, "Maid of Orleans," in shining armor clad, making marvelous victories in France under, as she believed, divine guidance, only to be repudiated and burned at the stake by those she had served. In other arts than that of war, of outstanding fame might be mentioned Sappho, the lyric poet, Hypatia, of Alexandria, who taught philosophy to the young Greeks and was martyred for her learning, and Cormelia, mother of the Gracchi. Others there were, of course, of this early period; and the annals of modern Europe name many illustrious women who have sustained with glory the weight of empire. It needs but little insight to see that the debt of the world is not to the brilliant names on history's page, but to the millions of unsung women who, through aeons of time, have "girded their loins with strength and strengtheneth their arms" in the joyous way of motherhood, that the race might be perpetuated and God's command fulfilled. The pages of the Bible are filled with beautiful stories of women, their fidelity, heroism and devotion. From Genesis to Revelations inclusive, woman's status of superior intellectuality and leadership is marked. In Genesis we read, "So God created man in his own image... Male and female created he them. And God blessed them, and God said unto them 'Be fruitful, and multiply and replenish the earth, and subdue it; and have dominion over... Every living thing that moveth upon the earth." As we read of Eve, Sarah, Rebecca, Ruth, Miriam, Esther, and all those glorious women of past ages, it is easy to believe that they played no small part in the progress and advancement of the people of their time and of the race. The spiritual influence of woman was manifested on many occasions. From sacred history and from what today is being unearthed 156 by archeologists, we know there were fine arts, education, magnifcent buildings, artisans in decoration, silversmiths, goldsmiths, jewels, fine linens, tapestries, embroideries, and so we must needs believe that the women were learned in these things as well as having a care concerning the social and economic life of their communities even, perhaps, as women do today. Wit the advent of the Christian Era came the "Light of the World." Never have women had truer friend or braver defender than the Lord Jesus. He was born in a lowly manger; His mother was a humble maid; and all the days of His life He mingled with lowly. People. There was a majesty about Him like a cloak, and all who saw and heard Him felt His divine power. His mother, Mary, blessed above all women, lived a humble life in her home in Nazareth and bore other children, yet she knew as she ministered to His childish needs that He was more than mortal. Wisely, she kept these things to herself, though "she pondered them in her heart." When she found Him, after a three-day search, expounding the law to the doctors in the Temple, she said to him, "Son, why hast thou thus dealt with us? Behold, thy father and I have sought thee sorrowing." He answered, "How is it that ye sought me? Wist ye not that I must be about my Father's business?" She understood and was not offended. Neither was she hurt on the occasion when He was teaching in the synagogue while she stood without and sent word that she and His brethren would speak with Him, and "he answered and said 

 

 unto him that told him, "Who is my mother and who are my brethren?' And he stretched forth his hand toward his disciples, and said, 'Behold my mother and my brethren! For whosoever shall do the will of my Father which is in heaven, the same is my brother, and sister, and mother.'" 'This scripture clearly defines our relationship with the Savior, if we so will. From it we may also interpret the often-quoted phrase, "the Fatherhood of God and the brotherhood of man," to mean father and mother and brother and sister. Here was that divine love for humanity manifested by the Savior on sO many occasions. No greater love has ever been shown between mother and son than was manifested during the agonies of the Savior on the cross. As He saw his mother weeping on Calvary's hill, with almost His last breath He: tenderly consigned her to the care of His beloved disciple, saying, "Woman, behold thy son!" And to the disciple, He said, "Behold thy mother." Mary stands before the world as the great exemplar of motherhood. When Elizabeth greeted her with the words, "Blessed art thou, Mary, among women," and "Whence is this that the mother of my Lord should come to me?" then for a certainty Mary knew, and ever was the song in her heart: "My soul doth magnify the Lord, And my spirit hath rejoiced in God my Savior. For He hath regarded the low estate of his handmaiden: for, behold, from henceforth all generations shall call me blessed." It is the mother heart that is able to read the deepest depths of the WATCHMAN, WHAT OF THE HOUR mystery of life—a priceless gift to cherish and guard forever. WOMAN was the instrument through which many of the Savior's ae sublime lessons were taught. When the Scribes and Pharisees brought the scarlet woman before Him and demanded that she be stoned, as was the custom among them, after a silent moment He said, "He that is without sin among you, let him first cast a stone at her." When He saw them all depart and that no man had condemned her, He said, '"Neither do I condemn thee: go, and sin no more." This act of sympathetic mercy has furnished the theme for many expressions from writers, even the greatest of poets repeated this lesson of mercy in these exquisite lines: "The quality of mercy is not strain'd; It droppeth as the gentle rain from heaven Upon the place beneath:... It is an attribute to God himself; And earthly power doth then show likest God's When mercy seasons justice."' That the Gospel belongs to no particular race or nation and that woman is instrumental in promoting the truth is demonstrated by two of the most charming stories in the New 'Testament—that of the Samaritan woman who, having accepted the faith, spread the good word among her people, and they, too, came and believed; and that of the friendly Jews who followed Martha and Mary to the grave of their brother and witnessed the miracle of Lazarus being raised from death and the grave. Jesus explains the deep mystery underlying this display of power 157 when He says, "Father, I thank thee that thou hast heard me. And I know that thou hearest me always: but because of the people that stand by I said it, that they may believe that thou hast sent me." Those who asked for signs, Jesus rebuked, but there were occasions when He deemed it wise to show His power for the good of people, as He did for these friends of the sisters of Bethany. From what has been saved of the recorded history of this momentous period, it is quite evident that women supported the church and contributed to its strength, not only in the Savior's day but during the years that followed under the ministry of the Apostles. We read of Anna, the prophetess, Lydia, the "elect lady," Dorcas, "full of good works and almsdeeds," Phebe, Persis, and Priscilla; and, in several places, groups are mentioned. 'The elder women were admonished by Paul to teach the young women righteous ways, and even among the "devout Greeks who believed," there were "the chief and honorable women, not a few." That Christianity survived at all the dark or medieval ages that followed the persecutions and martyrdoms of those who believed in Christ's teaching is a marvel, save that God willed it so; and "up through the universe the Lord cast a highway,' along which some choice souls have carried on and thus preserved the spiritual spark. Through these centuries of innumerable wars and horrors, such as almost wiped the earth of civilization, women still carried on and bore their burdens, perhaps not willingly, but patiently; and because of their motherhood 158 they must have sensed some degree of spirituality. Always have women been foremost in revivals. After the fall of the Roman Empire and the revival of letters, the influence of woman rose accordingly. Her advancement might have been more marked had it not been hampered by restricting laws. T the beginning of the nineteenth century, there were many brilliant stars in the firmament of a now civilized world—men and women rapidly progressing in government, in statesmanship, in science, letters, and art. What time could be more propitious for the restoration of the Gospel of Jesus Christ? Joseph Smith, a lad of humble birth and pure of heart, was the chosen instrument of the Lord to receive the glorious vision and teach the plan of eternal salvation to the children of men. He taught the personality of God, maintaining that "God Himself was once as we are and is an exalted man, and sits enthroned in yonder heavens." 'This doctrine was so very different from the teachings of the various creeds and from popular belief that persecution of Joseph Smith began almost from the beginning, only ending with his martyrdom at Carthage. His revelations for the re-establishment of the Gospel of Christ were believed by many, however, and the Church grew in numbers. 'Today thousands testify of the divinity of his mission. Joseph Smith gave recognition to women in furthering the spread of the Gospel and honored them in office. His mother, Lucy Smith, was to him not only a saintly woman, but his friend, adviser, confidante, 

 

 and comforter in hours when his soul was sorrowing and his life was in danger. To his wife, Emma, he gave love and devotion, and upon her he placed high position and duties which helped in the progress of his work. From the profound teaching of the earth's beginning was evolved the doctrine of the heavenly mother which served as the inspiration of Eliza R. Snow's beautiful invocation called, "Oh My Father," told in the lines: "In the heavens are parents single? No; the thought makes reason stare! Truth is reason, truth eternal, Tells me I've a mother there."' Joseph Smith introduced women into the ordinance work of the holy Temple, or House of the Lord, where they bless and assist their sisters in the sacred ceremonies pertaining thereto. He gave to the women of the Church the great organization of the Relief Society and personally taught the early members the correct method of procedure and what their several activities would embrace. He said at the organization, "I now turn the key for you in the name of God, and this Society shall rejoice and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time." 'This took place almost one hundred years ago when women had few opportunities for education and such a thing as organization for work or culture among women was almost unknown. His promises have been fulfilled, and today thousands of women who are members of the organization engage in the civic, social and educational requirements of their several communities; and with all their advancement, they maintain WATCHMAN, WHAT OF THE HOUR a spiritual equilibrium which balances their progress in material things. These are the women who have vision and keep the holiness of motherhood foremost. Tovar civilization has perhaps reached the highest state in world history; invention, science, industry, the arts, have attained an incredible perfection. Yet in the midst of all this beauty and delight, there is an ominous murmur of a changing world. Again the war lords are marching, and evil forces are stalking the earth, carrying such destruction and sorrow as was never known in all the world's history. Twenty-five years ago, at the close of the great world war, the people thought and hoped and believed that the day had come when there would be no more war—that the prophecy of Isaiah would be fulfilled when men "shall beat their swords into plowshares and_ their spears into pruninghooks: nation shall not lift up sword against nation 159 neither shall they learn war any more." We did not "hold high the torch" or "keep faith with those who died" believing they had made the supreme sacrifice that war would end., Now war is at our door; we face a changing world. Are we prepared to meet the oncoming tide, perhaps a holocaust such as is sweeping even now some parts of the world? Mothers should have a voice in the destiny of their children. Have we guarded our trusts carefully and taught the gospel of peace, or have we let the pleasant hours slip by, unheeding dangers lurking near? Oh, mothers of men, the hour has come! Whether you live in "reefroofed hut or white-walled palace of kings," unite as one, and, clothed in the armor of faith, pray that the hand of evil will be stayed and the hearts of men and nations will turn unto the Prince of Peace, and that fear and hatred will vanish from the earth. Are You Enrolled As A Member Of Relief Society? | plone woman interested in Relief Society will want to be counted among those affiliated with the Relief Society when it observes its centennial next year. The present campaign for 100,000 members by 1942 will close December 31, 1941. Therefore, only those women whose names appear on the 1941 rolls will be included in the total membership count publicized during the centennial. Inasmuch as there is no provision for a record of members-at-large, all Relief Society women are urged to be sure that their names appear on the Relief Society membership tolls of the wards in which they are now living. Relief Society women frequently move from the wards where they are enrolled, and fail to affiliate themselves with the Relief Society in the wards to which they move. Some women are unable to attend Relief Society meetings after moving to their new locations because of illness or other reasons, but inability to attend Relief Society meetings does not preclude membership in the Society. All women who have received a Relief Society membership card for the year 1941 may be assured that they are enrolled as members, provided they have not moved from the ward which issued the membership card. Those who have moved are urged to check with the secretary of the Relief Society in the ward in which they are now living to be sure that they have been accepted as members of that ward, and that their names are on the current roll—Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer.