Vol. 28 MARCH, 1941 No. 3  EDITORIAL 'Feed My Sheep ' WHEN Peter, deeply repentant, asked his Lord what he should do to prove himself, he was told, "Feed my sheep." The importance of this behest was made manifest by repeated emphasis: "Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me?" Then, "Feed my sheep." Even as Peter was to show his love for the Master by giving the "bread of life" to all who would partake, so we in latter days must demonstrate our love. In the world today there are thousands of souls hungering for the "bread of life," seeking the nourishment that only it can give. Those having this precious food are under obligation to share it, no matter where they may be, no matter what may be the work they are engaged in. In counseling the Relief Society sisters, the Prophet Joseph recalled the Master's words to Peter, saying, "Tf the sisters love the Lord, let them feed the sheep." And he further counseled: "Let your labors be mostly confined to those around you, in the circle of your own acquaintance." For ninety-nine years the women of the Church have endeavored to follow this counsel. For ninety-nine years their love of the Master has been manifested by the service they have rendered "to those around them." Reaching out and touching the hearts of women in communities throughout the world, they have drawn them in to partake of the bounteous feast of the Lord; and these women, having in their turn partaken, have become dispensers of the food to others, until from a humble beginning of 18 members, we now visualize 100,000 women "feeding His sheep." There are, however, in every community many indifferent shepherds and many unfed sheep. Though each week the table is spread, there are still those who do not partake of the feast because they do not know of it or because they are waiting for someone to fetch them to it. Those who have had the good fortune to sit at the table and partake of the feast know the bounteousness and benefits of it. They also know their responsibility to 198 share it with others. It is not enough to say to our sisters, "Come, join us." We must go into the highways. And byways seeking and searching, even as did the Savior when He dispensed the "bread of life,' until all have been brought in to the fold. Indifferent shepherds must awake, and 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MARCH, 1941

 all who know the truth must carry the message to those who know it not. Peter grew great in the service of the Lord; so has Relief Society grown in greatness through service; so will it continue to grow as it "feeds His sheep."