A PROPHETIC PROGRAM FOR WOMEN Ramona W. Cannon
Women The World Around Estelle S. Harris
Ever since the first woman, Eve, women have been praised for their charm or blamed for many of the ills of mankind. No matter how much woman is censured, however, no way has been found to get along without her if the race is to be kept going. If the most important study of mankind is man and if man includes woman, then we are probably justified in taking a look at some of the women of the world to see how they live, dress, and do their work.
We recently returned from a trip around the world, spending a year in Persia. During this long journey, we saw the women of many lands and had a fine opportunity of observing some of their curious ways of living.
Let us take a first glance at the Persian women. Only a few years ago the women of that land lived quite apart from the outside world. In many of the larger households they dwelt in apartments, called anderuns, separate from the main part of the house. The homes of the well-to-do Persians were built around a garden with the women's quarters in the rear, and only the men of the household or very near relatives were allowed to see or associate with them. They even ate most of their meals separately with other women and children as their companions. The peasants of the country have from time immemorial dwelt in villages where men, women, and children have lived close to their flocks, and they have not been bound by the formalities that restrict the more aristocratic families. Formerly the chadar, a semi-circular robe made of black for street wear and colored material for the house, was worn over the regular clothes, and covered the entire person, including the head. It was held together in front just below the eyes by one hand. No woman's face was to be seen in public, as it was covered with a veil. Even today, peasant women wear trousers and tunics or blouses. The head is always covered with a scarf which they like to pull over the face as strangers approach, even though keeping the face covered is now against the law. The larger households maintain many servants. In fact, this is one of the favorite methods of indicating wealth. In the absence of modern equipment, the washing of clothes is done by hand near a stream or in a low tub set on the ground. The hands take the place of the washboards in their system of laundering. The ironing is done with charcoal-heated irons. Cooking is usually done over charcoal fires, where this favorite fuel is available. Rice is the foundation of most Persian meals. This is boiled and served with mutton, chicken, or some one of numerous kinds of sauces. Bread is made from dough rolled into thin sheets and baked on the walls of a stone or brick oven. The baking is not done in the individual homes, but in the numerous bakeries distributed throughout the cities or in the community bakery of the village. In addition to the staple rice, bread, and mutton, the dietary is enriched by a great variety of vegetables, fruits, and melons. When guests are present, the etiquette of the country prescribes the showing of a great abundance of food. Much more than can be eaten at the meal must be put on the table. Food is bought in open bazaars or from peddlers along the street, whose wares are usually carried on the backs of donkeys. The sidewalks serve not only for pedestrians, but for donkeys or other animals that may pass along the street. Chickens are bought from venders who sit along the street with a dozen or more chickens about them. With their legs tied together. The housewife feels surer of the freshness if the chickens are bought while alive. Meats are not refrigerated in the shops, and a customer buys the cut of meat next in order as the quarter of beef or mutton is gradually cut away. Bathing is generally done at the public baths, since only the rich can afford baths in their homes. These public baths are centers of sociability and gossip. Throughout the Orient, home water systems are rare, and outside of the cities, electricity in homes is almost unknown. In Persia, cisterns in the basement and hand pumps are used to get water to the main part of the house. Persia has a problem in the scarcity of wood and coal for fuel, and the majority of small homes heat a room by placing a pan of burning charcoal in the center. A low table is sometimes placed over the pan and then covered with a quilt. The members then sit on the floor or on a cushion with their feet under the quilt near the pan. It is very cozy for the feet, but the back may be left cold.
The majority of Persians are Mohammedans. This religion prescribes many of the details of living for its adherents, such as the length of the nursing period of a baby, the use of running water instead of still water for washing, and the size of a water pool to insure purity. These sanitary instructions are faulty when considered in the light of modern physiology and bacteriology, but for hundreds of years they were useful in guiding primitive peoples. Prayer is important in the lives of Mohammedans. They pray with their faces toward Mecca, and their prayers must be offered at definite times and by prescribed formulas. Visits to mosques and other sacred places are required. It is not uncommon to see a group of women carrying their tea-brewing samovars and food and walking for miles to a shrine or mosque where the day will be spent in prayer and worship. Some even go the night before in order to have all of Friday, their Sabbath, at this sacred place. Persia is making a valiant effort to bring education to all of her people, but she is still far short of reaching this goal. The educational system is patterned largely after that of France. The standards are high, but many of the villages are still without schools. Foreign, private, and mission schools have done much to modernize methods and enlarge curricula. Office work is now being opened to women clerks and typists in a small way, so that women in Persia can earn an independent living, a thing that was impossible until recently. Many girls are now studying nursing and some are taking up medicine. Peasant women work in the fields along with the men. Marriages are mainly arranged by a third person, as in most Oriental countries. Before the veil was abandoned, you may surmise that many a bridegroom was disappointed, or agreeably surprised, in his wife's looks as he lifted the veil and saw her after the marriage for the first time. Stories are plentiful of the strange experiences resulting from this custom. It is not infrequent in these Oriental countries for cousins to marry. Our neighbor told us his daughter was plighted to her cousin when she was born. One reason for marrying relatives is to keep the family wealth in the family. Marriage is performed in stages. One of my husband's assistants was married in December, but the final wedding feast was not held until July, the wife remaining all this time with her family and he living at his home. Divorce among Mohammedans is easy, especially for the man, who formerly merely had to say several times before a witness that he did not want to continue to live with his wife. The dowry he had to give her at marriage was considerable protection to the woman. At present the tendency is for divorce laws to become more like those of European countries. My husband traveled with groups of men over most of Persia, and on these trips he seldom saw the women of the houses where he was a guest. Some of the places were homes of governors or other high officials, yet the wives were not seen. Meals were prepared and served by servants, and the wife was always kept in the background. When I traveled with him, the wives joined in entertaining us; but where the guests were men only, they were entertained by men. The present Shah of Persia is anxious to abandon the old restrictions placed on women by Oriental customs and to give them the opportunities enjoyed in western countries. To completely bring this about will require some time, since age-old customs of a people cannot be thrown off over night. I like the women of Persia, and I shall all my life cherish my pleasant experiences with some of them.
As in all Oriental countries, India has great contrasts of abject poverty and vast riches. There, one is constantly made aware of castes by the variation in the dress of the women. One may see walking side by side an old hag dressed in rags, chewing beetle nut, and a woman of aristocratic appearance dressed in fine, delicate fabric. The main outer dress of the women is a saree which consists of about five yards of cloth draped over and around the body in an attractive manner. This varies from the finest silks to the coarsest cottons. The saree usually has a design on both edges, of contrasting colors or shades, and the center is plain and often white in color. A blouse, with or without sleeves, is worn under this. No stockings are worn, and the shoes range from fancy embroidered slippers to very coarse sandals. Most women of lower castes throughout the Orient go barefooted.
Many women in India wear silver and brass ornaments on their toes and ankles. Others wear jewels in their nostrils. The cost of the jewels shows the wealth of the wearer. Among the best dressed women of India are the Parsees. We have frequently seen some of them in European cities where they always attract attention because of their striking appearance. The Parsees belong to the Zoroastrian religion, which was dominant in Persia up to the time the Mohammedans drove its adherents out of the country. The main group now lives in Bombay, and members of this group are wealthy merchants. The Hindus do not bury their dead, but burn them and, if possible, throw the ashes into the sacred Ganges River. It is a gruesome sight to see the bodies on a pile of wood ready to burn, or to see the last embers dying out after the burning is completed. The Ganges is a favorite river to bath in, and its waters are carried in containers to distant parts to be used in religious ceremonies or for the better body reincarnation. The Parsees leave their corpses in the towers of silence where the flesh is removed by vultures. The idea seems revolting, but when explained by them it does not seem so bad.
The Malay women, found in such cities as Penang and Singapore, with their small statures and round faces are rather attractive, even though they may not have the distinct beauty of the women of some other countries. The Malayan people are, in general, creatures of nature. They do not take the problems of the world very seriously. They enjoy their tropic abundance and are content to let the rest of the world go by. They are related in stock to those who live on the islands of the South Seas, and they like to lead the same kind of care-free existence.
When one comes in contact with Chinese women, one is made to feel that real character is found behind their strong faces. Their neat, tight-fitting pajamas, made of cotton or silk in light colors, seem entirely appropriate. Their straight, black hair is usually combed back in a small bob or braided and left hanging down the back. The faces are not particularly pretty, but they reveal strength. At Hong Kong, boats were being loaded by women carrying coal in baskets hung on the ends of a short pole. These women wore black pajamas of heavy material and wore no shoes. In China, women seem to do as much farm work, ship loading or handling of boats as men. Many of them live on the boats that carry cargoes from point to point in the harbors much as city trucks transfer freight from place to place. The well-dressed Chinese women in cities like Hong Kong make a very striking appearance. Their slender figures clad in plain, silk dresses extending from shoulder to ankle in one piece and their black hair brushed flat against the head give a challenge by their simple beauty that is in pleasant contrast to some of the gaudy, over-dressed European women seen in these Chinese cities.
The women of Japan are decidedly interesting. Our first insight into that country was at Miike, where our ship stopped to take on coal. The simplicity of their homes and the art displayed in common things were in such contrast to what we had seen in some of the other countries we had visited that they were a real delight. The Japanese homes, which were frequently in the rear of the shops, had well-polished floors. Sometimes a beautiful vase on a low stand was the only ornament in the room, or there might be a picture on the wall or a bowl of flowers arranged as only the Japanese can arrange it. Always the room looked clean and attractive.
Most of the Japanese women wear kimonos which are fastened by the obi, making the distinguishing feature of their costume. This obi is from ten to twelve inches in width and long enough to tie in a wide, flat bow, which may be heavily padded. This makes a wide band around the waist with the bow in the back. I shall not soon forget going into a large department store and seeing thousands of these obis on display. One could not think of a greater variety of designs, colors, or materials than was here exhibited. The wealth of the wearer may be indicated by the cost of the obi. Formerly, the women wore their hair in a high, artificial coiffure which was not disarranged in sleeping, because the pillow was a block of wood or a small padded pillow just wide enough to rest the back of the neck on. The glossy surfaces of the floors in Japanese houses are not marred by shoes, as these are removed outside the door, and the tabi, digitated socks, are worn inside. These socks are made of heavy, white material with a separate part for the big toe, like the thumb of a mitten. This separateness makes it possible for the strap of the sandal to be in two parts and fit onto the division. Many shoes are made of lacquered wood with stilt-like pieces of wood under the sole, thus lifting the feet above the wet ground. The click, click, click of hundreds of these shoes on the ground is rather annoying at first. Japanese women have an appearance of delicacy, as they are essentially clean, filth not being seen in their country as in many other parts of the Orient. The Japanese as a race are rather short and heavy set. The women of Japan play a vital part in all the work undertaken by the nation, such as the undeclared war on China. They seem willing to use the poorest rice, go without wool and cotton material, as well as many other things, so the country can sell the better products that will bring the much-needed foreign money.
In all our travels, we found the love of home and family to be universal with slightly varying means of showing affection. I feel that people in general are anxious to do the right thing even though they may from ignorance or superstition seem to do things with which we do not agree. Although in some countries we could not understand the language, there was a universal language of friendliness and hospitality. In no land where we have traveled have we found the freedom, the opportunities for education, the equality of position on the part of women that is found in our own beloved country.
"It is not an opportunity, but a rare privilege to become a member of Relief Society. To become a member and to learn the glorious truths of the Gospel of Jesus Christ brings sublime joy. Join the Relief Society and open the door of opportunity that this sublime joy may be yours." —Alice B. Castleton.