Women's Part in the Church Beautification Program James M. Kirkham Secretary of Church Beautification Committee an active part in all major projects and other activities suggested and outlined by the leaders of our Church. In the Church beautification program there has been no exception to this rule. About four years ago a definite program for improving and beautifying Church property was started, and it has been steadily growing up to the present time. This beautification program consists of remodeling and enlarging present Church buildings where needed and where Church members are prepared to share in the costs of doing this. Repairing, cleaning, and painting is a division of the work. Landscaping, the planning and planting of grounds to make them more attractive and beautiful, is a very definite part of the program. During the year 1940, about 150 landscape plans were made for improving and beautifying Church surroundings. A great deal was accomplished along this line. However, not all of the work included in these - plans was completed during the year. In addition to the landscaping, many Church buildings were remodeled and improved. A beautification fiesta held in the Salt Lake Tabernacle the first of last year launched the beautification program. 'This fiesta was given considerable publicity. Following it, cities and counties were asked to hold similar programs to create a Te women have always taken sentiment in favor of the beautification program. While it is important that Church buildings and grounds be attractive in appearance, there are other reasons also for beautifying them. Experience has shown that regard and appreciation is generally felt for a clean and well-painted building. There is better order in a chapel when it is well kept. It is the plan to so improve and beautify our chapels that a feeling of profound respect and reverence for our houses of worship will be created. It has been the suggestion from the beginning of this campaign that all take part in the program. When a person, young or old, participates in any activity, he becomes more interested in it than he would be otherwise. About one year ago a division of responsibility among priesthood quorums and auxiliaries was recommended in order that the best results might be obtained. The assignment recommended for the Relief Society was as follows:
"To see that the interior of the Church buildings be kept clean?general assembly rooms, halls and rest rooms.
"Floors and floor coverings and carpets in aisles should be clean; benches and chairs should be well dusted; windows should be washed and curtains and draperies regularly laundered or dry cleaned. Drinking fountains, toilet rooms, and wash basins should be kept sanitary, and soap and towels should be regularly supplied.
"The sacrament service should receive special attention: trays and glasses should be clean; proper linen should be supplied; a convenient receptacle for washing hands prior to the administration of the Sacrament should be provided."
It was also suggested that Relief Society women see that "the main aisles of the general assembly room be carpeted."
In asking the Relief Society to see that the interior of Church buildings be kept clean, it was not expected that the women do the actual work, but rather that they cooperate with the custodian or others regularly employed by the ward bishop in seeing that the Church buildings be kept clean.
These two pictures illustrate the improvement that can be made in a home with very little outlay of cash. With pride in our hearts and a willingness to work much can be accomplished.
This assignment is one of the most important in all the program, and it is recommended that it be continued. We feel sure the women will respond and do their part as they always do.
It would be difficult to select the ward that is doing the most outstanding beautification work. So many are doing such a splendid job that we will not mention any individual ward. Wayne Stake, however, has conducted an unusually successful stake program in which every ward has taken part. The women took a very active part. Their leadership was outstanding; they worked themselves and encouraged others to help. In some cases where a mother could not actually participate in the work herself, she cared for the children of other women in order that they might participate. Some women remained at home and provided meals for the group of men and women who were helping to improve and beautify the Church buildings and surroundings under the direction of the committee or those in charge.
Through an exchange of labor, all wards in this stake were benefited and enabled to accomplish much more than if each ward had worked alone. All Church buildings in the stake, with only one exception, have been reroofed and the roofs painted. The exterior and interior of every Church building has been painted. Some buildings have been remodeled, and one building, erected in 1912, has been completed and dedicated. Many needed repairs have been made. New fences have been built and painted. Cement walks have been laid, and in two of the buildings new furnaces have been installed.
Much of the Church property has been landscaped, and the remainder will be landscaped in the spring. A complete transformation has taken place in all Church property in this stake through the stake beautification program.
The program to improve and beautify Church property and grounds everywhere will continue this year with as much or more vigor as in the past. A new feature, however, that is added to the program for 1941 is to improve and beautify all Church members' homes and surroundings. The general committee has felt from the beginning that active participation in ward beautification would carry over into the homes. It has done this in many places, but in order to stimulate greater activity in home beautification, we are asking the women of the Church to lend their usual enthusiasm and support to this phase of the program. Detailed suggestions for the home beautification campaign will be sent to stake and ward committees from time to time.