They must have the (Continued on page 256)
Lesson Department
Theology and Testimony (First Week in June)
EMMA SMITH, THE PROPHET'S WIFE
LESSON IX
The Smith Farm. Shortly after the removal of the Smith family from Vermont to New York, the father, Joseph Smith, Sr., purchased a hundred-acre tract of land within the northern limits of Manchester township, some two miles south of Palmyra. Lucy Smith, mother of the Prophet, states that within the first year the family made nearly all of the initial payment, erected a log house, and cleared practically thirty acres of land for cultivation. In the meantime, she herself furnished all of the provisions for the family and replenished the household furniture through the sale of oil-cloth coverings for tables, etc., painted by her own hands.
Joseph's Employment with Mr. Stoal. To assist in maintaining the family and also in meeting the annual payments on the land, the male members of the family found occasional employment among the neighboring farmers and others near by. When Joseph had reached early manhood, an elderly gentleman by the name of Josiah Stoal came to the Smith home from Bainbridge, in the southern part of New York state, for the purpose of securing Joseph's services to assist in opening a purported silver mine, thought to have been formerly operated by Spaniards. Joseph attempted to discourage him in his purpose, but he was obdurate, and even offered Joseph a high wage if he would help him. Joseph finally accepted the offer and worked nearly a month when, at Joseph's repeated insistence, the project was abandoned.
Joseph's Marriage to Emma Hale. While thus engaged Joseph boarded at the near-by home of Mr. Isaac Hale, a respected citizen of Harmony, Pennsylvania. At this time Joseph first met Miss Emma Hale, daughter of Isaac. Mutual love followed. Rumors to the effect that Joseph had received heavenly manifestations aroused the opposition of Emma's parents to such an extent that they opposed her marriage to him. Because of this, the young couple went to South Bainbridge, where they were married at the home of Squire Tarbell, January 18, 1827. At this time Joseph was twenty-one years of age and Emma twenty-two. In the meantime Joseph had spoken to his parents of his intended marriage and received their hearty approval, also an invitation to bring his bride to their home. This Joseph did immediately after their marriage.
Mother Smith's Tribute to Emma. The following well-deserved tribute was subsequently paid by Lucy Smith, mother of the Prophet, to her daughter-in-law, Emma: "I have never seen a woman in my life, who would endure every species of fatigue and hardship, from month to month, and from year to year, with that unflinching courage, zeal, and patience, which she has ever done; for I know that which she has had to endure: She has been tossed upon the ocean of uncertainty; she has breasted the storms of persecution, and buffeted the rage of men and devils, which would have borne down almost any other woman." (History of the Prophet Joseph, Lucy Smith, Chapter 38.)
Joseph, Emma, and the Plates. The Prophet's mother relates that shortly after Joseph and his wife came to live at the Smith home, Joseph was stopped by an angel of the Lord on the highway near the hill Cumorah and given further instruction concerning the plates. Accordingly, as the 22nd of September approached?upon which date Joseph was to make his accustomed visit to the hill?interest at the Smith home was unusually high. Indeed on the twentieth of the month, Mr. Knight and Mr. Stoal, two of Joseph's friends from Colesville and Bainbridge, came to the Smith home, apparently because of their high regard for Joseph, and remained there until after the plates had been delivered into his care. Because of the extra work thus imposed upon the Prophet's mother, she had not retired by midnight of the 21st. She relates that shortly after twelve o'clock, on the morning of September 22nd, Joseph surprised her by asking for a chest with lock and key. Her inability to meet his request gave her alarm, but Joseph reassured her that all was well.
Shortly after this, Joseph's wife passed through the room with her bonnet and riding dress, and within a few minutes she and Joseph left together, taking Mr. Knight's horse and wagon. They did not return until after breakfast the following morning, at which time Joseph showed his mother the Urim and Thummim and again assured her that all was well. The part that Emma played in the early morning hours of September 22nd is not known, since neither she not RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the Prophet has left record of the proceedings. Shortly thereafter, when she was asked whether Joseph had the plates, she adroitly replied that she could not tell. The fact is that Joseph thad received them and, for sake of safety, deposited them in a hollow log. 7. Emma Carries Message to Joseph at Macedon. A few days later, as Joseph was engaged in digging a well for a widow in Macedon, it became known that unfriendly neighbors were determined, at any and all hazards, to obtain the plates. When Emma learned of this, she immediately mounted a horse and rode quickly to Macedon, some five to six miles away, and notified Joseph of the impending danger. Joseph borrowed a horse from the widow and returned with his wife to the Smith home, to which place he forthwith conveyed the plates and locked them in a strong hox, the purchase of which was made possible by digging the well. 8. Emma and the Lost Manuscript. Emma again showed her unbounded interest in the affairs of her husband at the time Martin Harris was permitted to take the one hundred sixteen pages of manuscript to his home. Almost immediately after Martin's departure she became the mother of a son who lived for a very short time. Thereafter for two weeks her life hung in the balance, but even so, she became alarmed for the safety of the manuscript and insisted that her husband go in search of it. This Joseph did after arranging for her mother to stay with her. When Joseph learned that the manuscript was lost, he cried aloud: ''Then must I return to my wife with such a tale as this? I dare not do it, lest I should kill her at once." 9. The Revelation to Emma. In July of 1830, some three months LESSON DEPARTMENT after the Church was organized and while Joseph and Emma were still living at Harmony, a_ revelation (Section 25) was received directing Emma in her various duties. In this revelation Emma is called an "elect lady" and told that her sins are forgiven. She is called upon to be a comfort to her husband and to assist him "'in his afflictions, with consoling words, in the spirit of meekness." She is also directed to make a collection of sacred hymns for use in the Church, for, said the Lord: "My soul delighteth in the song of the heart; yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with blessings upon their heads. Wherefore, lift up thy heart and rejoice, and cleave unto the covenants which thou hast made. Continue in the spirit of meekness, and beware of pride. Let thy soul delight in thy husband, and the glory which shall come upon him. Keep my commandments continually, and a crown of righteousness thou shalt receive." The remarkable extent to which Emma complied with these injunctions is briefly reviewed in the succeeding paragraphs of this lesson. 10. Emma Assists in Mission to the West. It will be recalled that some six months after the organization of the Church, and before the Prophet and his wife had left Fayette for Kirtland, revelations (See Sections 28:8-10; 30:5, 6; 32:1-3) were received directing the following named brethren to take a mission to the West: Oliver Cowdery, Peter Whitmer, Jr., Parley P. Pratt, and Ziba Peterson. The journey, which was to be made largely on foot, was more than a thousand miles in length, and therefore entailed much preparation. Of the part taken in these preparations Lucy Smith, the Prophet's mother, says: "As soon as this revelation was 239 received, Emma Smith, and several other sisters, began to make arrangements to furnish those who were set apart for this mission, with the necessary clothing, which was no easy task, as the most of it had to be manufactured out of the raw material. Emma's health at this time was quite delicate, yet she did not favor herself on this account, but whatever her hands found to do, she did with her might, until she went so far beyond her strength, that she brought upon herself a heavy fit of sickness which lasted four weeks." 11. Death of Emma's Adopted Child. On the 31st of April, 1831, less than three months after Joseph and Emma had moved to Kirtland, Ohio, Emma became the mother of twins, a boy and a girl, both of whom died within the next few hours. Nine days later, hoping to fill the void occasioned by the death of her own children, Emma took the motherless Murdock twins to raise. In September of the same year Joseph and his family moved from Kirtland to the town of Hiram, some thirty miles to the southeast, where they had been invited to take up their residence at the home of John Johnson. Some time near the middle of March the twins were stricken with the measles and soon became so seriously ill that Joseph and his wife lost much rest in taking care of them. In the evening of the 24th while Emma had gone to bed to obtain much needed sleep, and Joseph was resting by the side of the stricken children, a mob burst into the house and summarily carried him away. During this mobbing, which continued throughout the greater part of the night, one of the twins, the boy, contracted a severe cold and soon thereafter died. 12. Helpfulness to the Sick. When Governor Boggs issued his exterminating 240 order, Emma and her little family bade good-bye to her husband, then in Liberty jail, and left with the body of the saints for Ilinois. Some months later, in April of 1839, Joseph joined his povertystricken family at Quincy, Illinois, and soon thereafter purchased a log house at Commerce (Nauvoo). Due to the hardships which the saints had undergone and to the unhealthfulness of the locality into which they had just moved, many of the brethren and sisters were stricken with serious illness. True to her devotion, both to Joseph and the saints, Emma brought the sick to her home in such numbers that she and her family were crowded out of doors and took up temporary quarters within a tent. 13. Emma, First President of the Relhtef Society. The part which Emma Smith played in the early history of the Relief Society is well known. She was appointed its first president by the Prophet at Nauvoo, Illinois, March 17, 1842, with Elizabeth Ann Whitney and Sarah M. Cleveland, counselors, Eliza R. Snow, secretary, and Elvira Cole, treasurer. At this time the Prophet explained that the term "elect lady" ?applied by the Lord to Emma Smith in a revelation given some years earlier?had now been fulfilled in her election to the Presidency of the Society. The distinction of being Divinely selected as the president of such an organization with its unlimited possibilities for good, is of itself ample proof of God's acceptance of her. 14. A Comfort to the Prophet. In the summer of 1842 the Prophet was forced into retirement because of the unwarranted demands of certain officials in Missouri that he be extradited to that state and tried for the shooting of former Governor Boggs. While thus in seclusion on RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE a lonely island in the Mississippi river not far from Nauvoo, Joseph expressed a desire to be visited by Emma, his wife. Adroitly avoiding the sheriff by leaving the city in the opposite direction and passing around it by another way, Emma was enabled to reach her husband at the appointed time. She with others had previously met him at night time in mid-river. After her return to Nauvoo Joseph wrote to her in these endearing terms: "Dear Emma: I embrace this opportunity to express to you some of my feelings this morning. First of all, I take the liberty to tender' you my sincere thanks for the two interesting and consoling visits that you made me during my almost exiled situation. Tongue cannot express the gratitude of my heart, for the warm and truehearted friendship you have manifested in these things toward me." His letter closes as follows: ''Yours in haste; Your affectionate husband until death, through all eternity, for evermore." (History of the Church, Vol. 5, pp. 103-105.) 15. The Prophet's Tribute to Emma. Under the same date as the foregoing letter (August 16, 1842) Joseph recorded the following tribute to his wife: "How glorious were my feelings when I met that faithful and friendly band, on the night of the eleventh, on Thursday, on the island at the mouth of the slough, between Zarahemla and Nauvoo: with what unspeakable delight, and what transports of joy swelled my bosom, when I took by the hand, on that mght, my beloved Emma? she that was my wife, even the wife of my youth, and the choice of my heart. Many were the reverberations of my mind when I contemplated for a moment the many scenes we had been, called to pass through, the fatigues and the toils, the sorrows and sufferings, and the joys LESSON DEPARTMENT and consolations, from time to time, which had strewed our paths and crowned our board. Oh what a commingling of thought filled my mind for the moment, again she is here?undaunted, firm, and unwavering ? unchangeable, affectionate Emma." (Ibid. Vol. 5, p. 107.) 16. Emma's Letier to Governor Carlin. Shortly after her return to Nauvoo, Emma wrote a masterful letter to Governor Carlin of Illinois, who had already honored the extradition papers demanding that Joseph be sent to Missouri. In this letter Emma made a pathetic and logical. Appeal for the welfare of both her husband and the suffering saints. A few days later Emma's letter was delivered to Governor Carlin at Quincy. In the presence of Judge Ralston. After carefully reading the letter, the Governor "passed high encomiums on Emma Smith, and expressed astonishment at the judgment and talent manifest in the manner of her address." (Emma's letter should be read and carefully analyzed by members of the class." See History of the Church, Vol. 5, p. 115.) 17. Her Crown. Emma's devotion to her husband was unbounded. Perhaps on no occasion was this more fully apparent than at the time when the bodies of the two martyrs were brought to the Mansion House at Nauvoo. Time and again she attempted to enter the room where her slain husband lay, only to fail from exhaustion of both body and mind. Eventually as she reached his side and was passionately caress- 241 ing his lifeless form, a bystander attempted to comfort her by stating that her affliction would be to her a crown of life. Whereupon she answered quickly: "My husband was my crown." (Historical Record, p. 573.) 18. To the Last. For reasons best known to herself, Emma Smith did not accompany the Church to the West. She seemingly preferred to remain in Nauvoo and rear her children in the environment of the community where her husband lived and worked and died. In harmony with her well-arranged plans, she now rests by the side of her husband, - close to the little log house in which she and he lived when they first went to Nauvoo. Near by the "Father of Waters" is slowly measuring the time until the Great God of Heaven will call forth both the living and the dead to be judged according to their works. Questions for Discussion and Review 1. In what way does Emma's going with the Prophet when he received the plates indicate that she was accepted of the Lord? 2. Analyze the revelation of the Lord to Emma Smith and show how she attempted to fulfill it. 3. What do you think of the Prophet's tribute to her. 4, Emma seldom had a home of her own. How was this a test of her devotion? 5. In what way was she a source of constant consolation to her husband? Teachers' Topic THE BEATITUDES Aim: To enable us to more fully appreciate the Beatitudes, and to apply their beautiful truths to our daily lives. "Acquaint now thyself with Him, and be at peace; thereby good shall come unto thee (Job 22:21.) May not the good referred to include not 242 only peace and comfort, but also the benefits derived from the ability to understand the deeper meaning of life?its purpose and possibilities? This leads us to contemplate eternal life and the way it may be obtained. The promises made to those who obey the commandments of the Savior and live up to his teachings are a source of great satisfaction and joy. To enter the kingdom of heaven, to see God and to be called the children of God, these are the greatest gifts to which man is heir. Other promises contained in the Beatitudes, such as being comforted and obtaining mercy add much to the fulness of this life. But to receive these blessings certain activity is necessary. "Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven." (Matt. 5:16.) "Preach unto them repentance, and faith on the Lord Jesus Christ; teach them to humble themselves and to be meek and lowly in fheart; teach them to withstand every temptation of the devil, with their faith on the Lord Jesus Christ. Teach them to never be weary of good works, but to be meek and lowly in heart; for such shall find rest to their souls." (Alma 37:33-34.) "And thus a not unkindly word Hath done its best for me. Yet have found, O God! No rest, No harbor short of Thee." Has not the careful consideration of the Beatitudes drawn us a little nearer our Savior? If the aim of the Jessons this year is being realized, how will it help us obey the first two great commandments? Contrast the way of happiness which Jesus outlined with popular ideas of how to be happy. Where, according to jthe Beatitudes does happiness lie? RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Which of the Beatitudes would mean greatest happiness to you? It has been said that the "greatest of all privileges and the source of the truest, deepest and most enduring happiness of lives, come from sacrificing with and for others." Explain the word ''Blessed." How would you like a person who lived according to the teaching of the Beatitudes? Should a Relief Society member possess all these virtues? Why? 'Are they active or passive traits? Which Beatitudes refers to a teachable humility? What must the mourners do, to be Blessed? Give from the Bible an example of a meek man. Explain. Distinguish between meekness and weakness. How does a man show the condition of hungering and thirsting after righteousness. Explain the fifth Beatitude. Recite and give your interpretation of the sixth Beatitude. To be peacemakers what must we do? ' Do you know of any causes which are being persecuted today? What is the purpose of persecution? How have you been benefited by studying the Beatitudes? Note: The above questions are given for the purpose of summarizing some of the important points which have been given during the study of the Beatitudes. Suggestion is made that they be used in class work, rather than taken directly into the homes. May not each visiting teacher use in visiting homes, those particular thoughts which have meant the most to her, and which she has been able to best incorporate into her own life? Read Matthew, Chapter 5. LESSON DEPARTMENT 243 Literature THE DHELIGHT OF Great Books (Third Week in June) "An air is more lasting than the voice of the bird, A word is more lasting than the riches of the world." The story of a nation's literature is the history of the forces that have entered into the nation's composition, molded its career, and marked the genius of its people. The songs and tales of a primitive people are symbols of the Past, if we can discover their meaning we have a clue to the spiritual character of the people who made them. "The Past may be forgotten, but it never dies." The Celt and his World. The Irish are a Celtic people. In Ireland, where the past still lives, every place has its tradition and every name its story. Much of the past is still shrouded in mystery, that long march of "noble men of Arya" to the Celtic singers of today, but much has been discovered. In the chronicles of the classical nations about 500 B. C. There are frequent references to a people of great strength and influence living in Central Europe, the Celts. They were tall, fair, and masterful, loving splendor and adornment, driven by passion rather than reason, and seeing deep into the mystery of things. Aristotle recorded that they dwelt beyond Spain and had captured Rome. Ephorus wrote that they had the same customs as the Greeks and were on the friendliest terms with them. At the height of their power, 390 B. C., they conquered Rome. Then for ages they dwindled and wandered. As Ossian said of them, "They went forth to war, but they always fell." The remnants of the race settled in Gaul ?Old Irish Proverb. And Britain. Cesar found them there and recorded valuable facts about their culture and religion in his military records. The Roman invasion of Britain drove the Celts to the fringes of the islands, now Cornwall, Wales, Scotland, Ireland. After the Teutonic occupation of Britain, the elements of charm, complexity, and spirituality remained with the Celtic remnants molding their history and in turn stamping the character and the genius of their race on the English speaking peoples. The Celtic temperament is a thing apart from other races just as is the Latin and the Teutonic. The things of the Spirit were the very core of their life and thought, in no other people is the feeling for the supernatural so intense. Religion, the great force in Celtic life, was administered by a priestly caste, the Druids. The priest was the prescribed intermediary between God and man. The teachings of the Druids are still surrounded by mystery, as they forbade the committal of their doctrines to writing. They believed in the immortality of the soul as the existing evidence of their strange burial customs will attest. The moodal temperament of the Celt is the source of his genius, the genius to be a builder of poems. The literature of the pre-Christian Celts is a splendid mass of heroic and legendary tales. This saga-romance material falls into three great cycles?the Mythological, the Cuchulain (Cu-hu'lan), and the Fenian. Cuchulain is the greatest figure of 244 the ancient literature, the heroic cycle records his mysterious birth and parentage, his rearing, his wooing of Emer, a series of combats with the King of Connacht, the last great combat in which unknowingly he slays his own son. The famous story of Deirdra (Dar'dra) belongs to the Culculmlain cycle. The story of Deirdre is the finest remnant of early Irish literature. She has been called the Helen of Ireland, and the tragic pathos of her love and death has been almost endlessly sung by the modern poets?Yeats, Russell, and Synge among them. Fin mac Cumhail (Cool), the central figure of the Fenian cycle of romances, is a kind of Irish King Arthur with a Round Table organization. No other early literature has such a gallery of women, vigorous, independent, fieryhearted women as Deirdre, Meve, Grania, and Findabair. After Saint Patrick, a Celt, apostolized Ireland in the fifth century, the literature of the early Irish was collected, copied, and preserved. Today there is a strange mingling of the old paganism with Christianity, elves, banchees, leprechaums, haunted raths and streams are to be found everywhere in Ireland as in the distant past. The Celtic Renaissance: The Irish Renaissance was a conscious movement for the reconstruction of Irish life. The movement has various phases, literary, dramatic, economic, and social. The literary revival was directed by individuals who felt that the soul of Ireland was to be found in its tradition, in its history, and in its folk-legends. They viewed nationality less as a political force than a spiritual force creating ideals. The Gelic League was organized to attempt the restoration of the Irish language. The chief service of the League, however, has been the recovery of the Celtic tradition RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE long hidden in the undeciphered manuscripts of old Gelic poetry. Two poets and scholars, George Sigerson and Douglas Hyde, labored at this task. Their translations of the precious pieces of folk literature have been already the treasure house for poetic and dramatic material. A new generation of writers has been inspired and a national literature of poetry, drama, prose fiction, and essays has been produced. This new body of literature, intensely national in its origin, has qualities which appeal to all English-speaking peoples ?'"a singular revelation of the human soul in all places and all times." Modern Irish Poets. William Butler Yeats. The chief spokesman for the new poetic Ireland, William Butler Yeats, is a lover of the shadowy beauty of pagan Ireland. He was born at Sligo (1866) in the rugged west of Ireland. Beautiful to look at with dark face and eager eyes, as a youth he suffered from being unlike his fellows, "a genius among the commonplace." His natural intellectual and spiritual curiosity found its early satisfactions in the legendary lore of Ireland. The countryside around Sligo was the holy land of fairy-lore where he gathered the folk gossip of the peasants. He seemed to find the soul of Ireland in these folklegends. "The Celtic Twilight" is a collection of supernatural tales founded upon the legendary material. "Ghosts flicker through these tales. ?Beautiful meanings crept in, glimmering behind words like a flame shining through a curtain." Yeats joined the Irish nationalists and became leader in the Celtic Renaissance not to foster a political revolution: he desired a spiritual renaissance. The Nobel Prize was conferred on him in 1923, "for his consistently emotional poetry, which in LESSON DEPARTMENT the strictest artistic form expresses a people's spirit." He worked zealously with Lady Augusta Gregory to establish the Irish National Theatre. He is at the present time a senator of the Irish Free State and Minister of the Fine Arts in the Dublin Cabinet. Everything he writes, tales, essays, poems, and plays has a wistful beauty, a shadowy mysticism, and a lingering melody. George William Russell By general consent George William Russell, who writes under the pseudonym "A?," ranks next to Yeats among modern Irish poets. A man of singular integrity and beauty of character he is a leader of the nationalist movement. As editor, publisher, and philosopher he has encouraged the profession of letters in Ireland. His prose writings deal with national affairs. To admirers of his poetry he is known as "the poet of the shadows." Poetry to him is the ritual of his religion believing with Plato that inspiration is a divine gift only attained by those who have kept their souls sensitive to beauty. Hence his poetry is emotional and often mystical showing marked influence of Irish folk-lore. A worshiper of the spirit of nature, he is closely related to Wordsworth of the English poets: "The power is ours to make or mar Our fate as on the earliest morn, The Darkness and the Radiance are Creatures within the spirit born. Yet bathed in gloom too long, we might Forget how we imagined light." Padraic Colum. 'As one of the founders of the Irish National Theatre, Padraic Colum has been associated with Yeats in the Celtic Renaissance. His work as a dramatist is better known than his poems. His poetry represents the distinctive note of the younger generation of Irish poets. In "Wild 245 Earth" the poems reveal a contact with Irish national life. He pictures peasants at their work, old women by their firesides, young girls at their spinning. His poetry is free from sentimentality; it is strong with the strength of the soil?intense and vivid depicting man's struggle with nature. At present Colum is living in America, and writing tales for children drawn from the great myths of the world. "A Cradle Song," is one of the most appealing of his peasant poems. The Wanderings of Oisin?William Butler Yeats. The poem is an Irish Odyssey, the story of Oisin's long years of wandering in "fairy lands forlorn." One day in his youth while hunting with his companions, Oisin meets a beautiful maiden, Neave. She sings to him of the Land of Ever Young: "Where ten have heaped no burial mounds, And the days pass by like a wayward tune Where broken faith has never been known, And the blushes of first love never have flown." Together they go forth over the glossy sea to the Island of Dancing. Oisin stays for a hundred years hunting, fishing, dancing, singing, loving. One day, standing by the sea, he finds in the foam the shaft of a broken lance, then he begins to remember. As he remembers a change comes over everything. A faint song of the sorrow of human things breaks the enchantment. Oisin and Neave mount once more upon horseback and ride on the Island of Victories. Here Oisin sets a maiden free who is held captive by a demon. The demon comes to life again every fourth year, and so the battle is endless. *U-sheen 246 After a hundred years the hero passes on to the Island of Forgetfulness. At first he endeavors to awaken the sleepers. All is in vain and so the lovers sleep side by side for another hundred years. When Oisin awakens he is once more filled with a longing to return to his own world. Neave consents, with foreboding of evil, for if he touches the earth he will never be able to return to her. Arriving in Ireland, which he left in the heroic pagan days, he finds all changed. The men are miserable and weak, singing no longer the joyous songs of old. Instead of his people, the Fianna, a religion of penance and prayer controls the land. Sick at heart, lonely and sad, like Tannhauser, he seeks again his immortal love. On the shore Oisin sees two men staggering under a heavy load. In a moment of forgetfulness he leans to help them and falls to the ground. The spell is broken and Ojisin finds himself a creeping old man. To him then comes Saint Patrick, who wishes to hear his story. Learning that the Fianna have been doomed to eternal damnation he refuses the invitation to repent and seek forgiveness, preferring to be with his comrades ''on the flaming stones of hell." The legend, as Yeats has treated it, has a certain philosophic value. Patrick and Oisin represent two kinds of feeling about life. Oisin with Celtic spirituality is in love with the visible beauty of life and with action. The Christian spirituality of Saint Patrick has its interest in the realm RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of the soul not in the life of this world. The expression of the one is in exuberance while that of the other is in asceticism. In the portrayal of the Celtic spirituality Yeats has excelled, because there is always present "the haunting beauty of a twilight world." Suggestions for Study. A. Materials. 1. The Delight of Great Books? Erskine. The Celtic Dawn?Morris. The Celtic Twilight?yY eats. William Butler Yeats?Reid. American and British Literature?Van Doran. Since 1890. B. Projects. 1. Music: Irish National 'Airs. A. Believe Me if All Those Endearing Young Charms. B. The Harp That Once Through Tara's Halls. C. The Last Rose of Summer. D. The Minstrel Boy. 2. Biographical Sketch: a. The Celt and His World. B. William Butler Yeats. 3. Readings: a. Selections from Modern Irish Poems. 4. Story: a. Deirdre. B. The Wanderings of Oisin. C. Method: The material in the lesson is adequate if no other material is available. SAG So [se LESSON DEPARTMENT 247 Social Service (Fourth Week in June) MAINTAINING PECULIARITIES AND DEVELOPING ORIGINALITY LESSON Ix It has been said that if we knew exactly what the future vocational and social activities of a person would be, we could train him carefully for them. But we live in an age of complex human desires, with a complex mechanical system of satisfying these. In industry and occupation there is minute fine specialization. The success of a system of specialization is a group of people different enough in temperament and ability to become expert in the many various lines of work. Psychology points out clearly that we have the differences and peculiarities in people that make this type of social organization possible. A proper preservation of these points of originality and a proper placement of people in occupational activities will produce the greatest amount of happiness. The aim of this lesson is threefold: 1. To have parents see the real significance and importance of variations and differences in the abilities and interests of their children. 2. To direct the class members to real action in seeing that parental ambitions, mass education, traditional measures of school work and other things do not crowd out or crush these expressions of originality. 3. To have the class members see clearly that it is possible to safeguard these variations and at the same time train children in a common language, a common loyalty, common social courtesies and ideals of character. This aim in terms of American education was stated by Dr. I. L. Kendall in the following sentence: "Many of the ideals which underlie American character arose out of the pioneering conditions of the frontier. On the good side these conditions demanded resourcefulness and selfreliance, equality of individuals, and at the same time ability to cooperate with the common good." 4. To encourage class members to feel themselves and teach their children that people who differ from us are neither inferior nor superior, because of those differences, but that it is the degree to which each contributes what he can and cooperates kindly for the good of all, that determines who is the better. Suggestions for procedure: 1. Make the aims clear. 2. Assign the reading guide carefully. 3. Individual members of the class may investigate local school conditions and report on topics similar to the following: 1. Is there a uniform passing mark? 2. 'What are the required subjects? Are there any adjustments? 3. How are elective subjects determined? 4. If children are sectioned on the basis of ability do the slower sections feel inferior? 5. What guidance work is provided in the schools? 6. What determines a school failure? 4, The high school principal may be asked to lecture on the subject: The Successes of our brilliant, average, and less brilliant pupils. 248 Have him stress the way in which adaptations have made happiness possible for all. 5. The class can then read together and discuss the supplementary material. Class Members Reading Guide: Habits, p. 6; Habits, pp. 8-9; Personality, pp. 3-10. Begin by reading the chapter in Personality. Here you will find the following key sentences: "Every normal child has within him the possibilities of a happy and useful life." p. 3. "Each child is different from every other, and the family that forgets this, and expects its children to follow one pattern, is bound to feel? and to cause?disappointment." p. 5. "The outstanding need, in the building up of personalities that can withstand the pressure of life, is emphasis on the child as an individual. We must learn more about human behavior in general, and then we must apply what we know to the children in our care, remembering that each one requires study as to what his own personal needs are, and as to how the surroundings in which he lives are contributing to or checking his development." Study the setting in which these statements are made. The following problems should be in your mind as you read the material again. 1. Uniform personal and health habits are needed. Adjustment to individuality is largely then a matter of method. Habits, pp. 8-9. 2. Sometimes conventional institutions must give way to the spontaneous play of children. Habits, p. 6. 3. Home and family life will need to safeguard itself in regard to several specific dangers inherent in it at we present time. Personality, pp. 4-6. 4. The basic instinctive needs of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE all children need expression. Personality, pp. 6-7. 5. Children with anti-social or. Undesirable variations in conduct are to be studied and educated rather than punished. Personality, pp. 7-8. 6. Success in original activities is to be rewarded in the social order. Suppl ementary Material: 1. The School Problem. A. General Problem. "Wihat is there in our present program that makes for individuality, independence of thought, imagination, insight, initiative, choice instead of mere traveling with the herd? This we should capitalize. How can the program be improved? Obviously disciplining children in a fixed course will not do; the individual must have a chance to express himself. Childish choices must be encouraged and guided to sensible outcomes. Variation must be expected and provided for. Situations calling for initiative must be provided. The possibility of change and improvement must be emphasized." (Editorial Journal of Educational Method. Dec., 1930.) "It is of high importance to prevent the spirit of mass production, which has found its way into the control of pretty much all the processes of industry with resultant economic advantage and esthetic loss, from similarly dominating any part of the field of education, elementary, secondary or higher. The individual is too precious to be sacrificed to the mass. He should be surrounded by those opportunities for diversity of interest, of occupation and of expression that will invite and encourage him to make the best possible use of his talents." (Report of the President of Columbia University, 1928.) B. Dangers of developing the LESSON DEPARTMENT feeling that less efficiency in Mental Tests or School Work are marks of uselessness or undesirability. Commissioner E, W. Butterfield of Connecticut discussed this question at the Department of Superintendence of the National Education Association in 1931. In part he said: "One night a mother called upon me, a stranger, who had driven fifteen miles to see me because she thought from my position I must be very wise. With tears and averted face, she told me her story. "My husband is out in the car,? she said, 'He is too ashamed to come in and I don't know how to tell you this, but we have a boy of thirteen and he is dull. He studies every night, but he doesn't do well in any of his classes, and the superintendent thinks he should repeat the seventh grade. His cards have always been poor though the teachers have helped him after school. At first he didn't care but now he is older and he feels bad to be different from his schoolmates. His teacher has written to me that I am not to expect too much of Ralph, as he is doing as well as one of his ability can do. She has tested his intelligence and finds it is only ninety percent. I know that my husband is bright, but I am afraid 1 am feeble-minded, and have never known it before. "Then I began to question her about Ralph, and she told another story. He was neat and kept himself clean and his room picked up. He was never saucy to his parents, he always did the dishes when his mother had a headache. He was a good singer and played well on his saxophone. He read the American Boy each week and kept the family and neighborhood radios in repair. He was keenly interested in his garden. He planted it and took entire charge. At a roadside stand, and to 249 route of regular customers, he had sold $23.15 worth of beets, cucumbers, lettuce, and string beans. This money, except for Christmas presents to his parents, he had in the bank. He had spent a happy two weeks' vacation with an uncle who is a big hen farmer, and now Ralph has a vocation in sight. "Then I said to my visitor, 'You are entirely mistaken in thinking that Ralph is dull. You have a bright boy and should be both proud and happy. He is school dull but he is home bright, working bright, saving bright. For the social advantage and for his own mature satisfaction, you should keep him at school until high school graduation, but let him choose, as far as possible, subjects which do not abound in words and definitions. Be patient and endure the penance of these years. Keep the home and music and garden as now, but add the hens, and know that when once he graduates he will never be dull again. It is probable that he will be a good business man, an effective producer, and a reliable citizen. He will choose a wife with discrimination and make her happy.' "
C. Tyranny of Special interests and activities. Universities and high schools sometimes permit students in one department to so discredit the work in other departments that students interested in these latter ones feel shame. President Faunce of Brown University tells this story: "Recently speaking at a certain college, I ventured to quote a sonnet of Shakespeare that has been precious to me for many years. At the close of the address as the assembly was dispersing, a shame-faced student showed me a copy of Shakespeare's sonnets which he carried in his inside pocket. He was reading it slyly in moments of leisure, but 250 afraid to show it to his fellow students, who preferred the vulgar periodicals of the day. In that particular college the best was obliged to hide its head. Then democracy becomes hatred of excellence, and that hatred is found today in many schools and clubs and churches in America. The great danger in our schools is that they may be geared to the capacity of the average child, and there is no such creature. They should be geared to the discovery and training of leaders, in the confident conviction that most of our children may lead in something, and that the discovery of the boundless varieties of human ability wrapped up in the most prosaic (common-place) and unpromising children makes the daily task of the teacher an adventure into the infinite far more alluring than any expedition in hunting and fishing, a true voyage of discovery in realms of gold." Democracy means, then, an equal chance for unequal minds. (Journal of the National Education Association, April, 1928.)
D. The Tyranny (cruel exercise of power) of Marks and Eligibility Requirements. Some children find it difficult with even great effort to meet uniform grades in specific required work. Their lives fit with exceptional happiness into certain other activities. The right to expression is barred to them because they are different.
2. Parental Problems.
A. Making the child fit a planned program to satisfy parental ambition or compensate for parental disappointment. A professional man brought in his three-year-old son. Mental tests were given. The evidence pointed unmistakably to ordinary ability. The father forced an admission from the clinic workers that it would be doubtful whether his son would complete college or perhaps even high school. "At this Mr. Prentice burst out: 'If that's the case, I don't want to raise him. I would rather he died this week than feel I had produced a moron. Why, I don't know anyone who hasn't gone through college! All my associates are college people. I was an honor man myself!' " (Sayles, The Problem Child at Home, p. 46.) Of another case Sayles reports: "United in little else, they were as one in their efforts to push and prod their small daughter into doing a higher grade of school work than her good but not remarkable ability seemed to make possible. Much of her nervousness and her poor school adjustment was clearly traceable to this prodding and to the constant fault-finding that accompanied it." (p. 49.) "Whenever we find marked differences between the children of a family, we must undertake to provide opportunities which will give outlets to the unique abilities of each child, no matter in what directions those abilities may lead. The shortsightedness of parents who try to develop their children along lines in which they themselves are interested or capable, is accountable for much unhappiness. Each normal individual has within him or her the possibilities of a happy, useful adult life, and the sympathetic search for and development of a number of these innate possibilities lie within the power of the parent." (Fegre and Anderson: Child Care and Training, p. 72.)