A Garden Walk By Ezra J. Poulsen
Broken pieces of cement taken from an old floor or basement shelving make a very desirable walk for the back lot or garden. Since the upper surface is smooth, and at least one side of most of the broken pieces is usually straight, it is easy to arrange them into a walk of any desirable width. Dig a slight trench, then place the fragments into it, fitting them together loosely. When this is done tamp fine dirt into all the crevices, so that the uneven bottom surfaces will be firmly supported. In this manner an attractive, and somewhat rugged flagstone effect is produced; and by sowing grass in the interspaces, the path becomes a perfect blend with the natural beauties of the lawn and flower garden. Often it is much easier to get the cement fragments than the natural rock. From a neighbor making some alterations on his home, from the city street department, or from the community dumping grounds, quantities of this material may be had for the asking. It is easier to handle than most rock, since it is usually about the right thickness, and can be broken readily into any desirable shape with an ordinary hammer.
We Thank You (Concluded from page 236)
facts put before them so that public sentiment will be aroused against the evil of liquor and in favor of the Prohibition law. But there should not be ill feelings engendered. If people differ on this and other subjects there should not be hostility and enmity. While the campaign should be carried on with militant power, yet there should be understanding hearts and a desire to educate rather than force.
BEET SUGAR The factories of Utah and Idaho produce the finest of sugars. Insist on it from your grocer. Buy it in original containers and LOOK FOR THE LABEL. Support our Industries and Farms NOW!
It's what we can do for you NOW that really counts with you. Not tomorrow, or next week, nor when business picks up, but NOW. NOW stands for immediate action and that's just what we can give you. And along with the action, we give you printing and bookbinding of the highest standard of quality, at low cost. Prices and quality of workmanship are in line with what is demanded NOW. We are organized to serve you, and are equipped to meet YOUR printing and binding needs. Let us serve you NOW. Call Was. 550 or write
The Deseret News Press 29 Richards Street, Salt Lake City, Utah
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
98.5 PER CENT OF ALL ASSETS IS SET ASIDE FOR THE BENEFIT AND PROTECTION OF POLICYHOLDERS.?In addition to the customary reserves for the protection of Policyholders?The Beneficial has added a surplus fund of One Million Dollars plus a special reserve of Two Hundred Eighty Thousand Dollars. THIS AMAZING PRECAUTION SHOULD SATISFY THE MOST SKEPTICAL AS TO THE STABILITY OF THE BENEFICIAL.
BENEFICIAL LIFE COMPANY If it's a Beneficial Policy it's the best Insurance you can buy
HEBER J. GRANT, President E. T. RALPHS, General Manager