A Talk to Mothers By Ruth May Fox RAW up your chairs, mothD ers, especially you who have convinced yourselves that the drink habit is worse now than before the 18th amendment became law. If you will bear with me a few moments, I should like to refresh your memories as I fear that many of you have forgotten the old days when we were so often warning our children to avoid certain streets lest they should meet' a drunken man. I am not going to bore you with statistics nor am I going to prove to you how much revenue you will bring to your state and nation if you will only open wide the gates to the liquor traffic that your husbands, your sons and oh, shall I say daughters, too may get liquor under the law? Alas I fear so, time was when we thought our daughters, at least in this western land, were well nigh invulnerable to the temptation of strong drink; but in this modern day when every allurement that Satan can devise will be brought to bear on your daughters as well as your sons to create in them the habit of indulging in intoxicants I fear for the result. So insidious will be the methods employed, enticing them to be up to date, to be good sports, to be like others of the crowd that it will take more than tears and more than prayers to protect them from this tremendous evil. The radio with song and fair speeches will be used extensively to promote the sale of alcohol, not only by what is termed legitimate advertising but by that more subtle manner of social contacts. The movies too in a perfectly respectable way, of course, will, perhaps, depict a family group, a party, a holiday scene in which young people will be inveigled into taking a glass just as cigarettes are being exploited for no other reason than to increase the sale of the little "white slaver." Even as I write I am led to exclaim, 'O Lord shut out the vision.' Let me tell you a few true stories, facts that happened long before the prohibition law was passed. I am English and England is a beerdrinking nation. May I add with all her drinking she has not drank herself "back to prosperity." Knowing that some of my progenitors were given to the national habit I resolved that as far as possible, by teaching and example I would counteract any tendency in that direction which-might appear in my children. Imagine my indignation when my sixteen year old son making Newyear calls was offered a glass of wine in an apparently good home. A year or itwo later that same boy was put to work on the streets for a short time, it was a hurry up job as I remember. One morning he came home with a bottle of beer in his pocket that some good man had given him. Fortunately he did not succumb to the temptation. As a young girl I think I endeavored to keep the right kind of company and I am sure my parents tried their best to see that I did, but if I went for a bobsleigh ride one of the young men would sometimes produce a bottle of liquor. At dancing parties, even when the bishop had scrutinized the list of invited guests, two or three empty flasks would be found fmext morning some where about the building. In that A TALK TO MOTHERS day I saw a young man of the popular set slumped down by the fence not able to find his home, making cat-calls and other hideous noises. I had a neighbor who worked in a brewery, once a week at least he came home so intoxicated that it took two men by sheer force to prevent him from committing some act of violence. When the brewery closed and he got work elsewhere his wife remarked that a better husband never wore clothes. I have seen men true to the core when not poisoned with strong drink try to borrow or even beg a few cents with which to assuage their craving. One of my own kin, so I have been told, had a husband who was a good workman and had it not been for his perverted appetite he would no doubt have been a good provider; but his weakness made a tyrant of him. Under this baneful influence he would whip his children most unmercifully; their mother intervened taking some of the blows that were meant for them on her own body. Often this good woman would get up at four o'clock in the morning and go to a near-by tavern to clean it up that she might be able to buy a loaf of bread for the family breakfast. At other times she would pawn her best shawl for the same purpose that of obtaining food for her little ones. Once ina fit of drunken rage her husband set fire to her bed, she did not scream or jump so the man demore to extinguish the flames himself. One other story: this same woman was turned out of her home because she could not pay the rent; as she walked toward the poorhouse with three or four little children clinging to her skirts she was heard to exclaim: "There's a host behind and a sea before and rocks on either hand." 225 You say these are extreme cases, Mothers, do not deceive yourselves; millions of women have been beaten, starved and locked out of doors at night because of the demon drink, with no where to turn for comfort or shelter, to say nothing of their tears and anguish of soul. THESE and kindred evils some of them unspeakable, prompted some good women away back in 1870-80 to carry on a crusade against the saloon, that filthy den of stench and obscenity. They prayed in the streets and in the saloons pleading in tears for the Lord to soften the hearts of the saloon keepers, until some of them became ashamed of themselves and closed their doors. Frances E. Willard, the only woman whose statue has been given a place in Statuary Hall, Washington, D. C., was early attracted to this movement and became in 1878 the president of the Illinois Woman's Christian Temperance Union. By and by temperance became a national issue and Miss Willard became its head, working hard, traveling much, and speaking wherever she could get an audience. Compensation or hope of reward was not thought of other than the joy of service to her fellows. In 1883 she initiated a world temperance organization and later became its president. When her statue was presented to congress it was said of he.: "The mother of all mothers, the sister of all wives, to every child a lover, [Fraces E. Willard gave her own life to the happiness of her sisters." In her own autobiography she 'wrote: "I have been called ambitious, and so I am, if to have had from childhood the sense of being born to a fate is an element of ambition. For I never knew what it was to aspire and not to believe myself capable of heroism. I always 226 wanted to react upon 'the world about me to my utmost ounce of power, to be widely known, loved and {believed in— the more widely the better. Every life has its master passion; this has been mine. Very few things waken my contempt, but this couplet, in the hymn book did: 'Make me little and unknown, Loved and prized by God alone.' "Its supreme absurdity angered rather than amused me, for who could be 'loved and prized' by the Great Spirit and yet despised by the lesser spirits made in his image? Who could deliberately desire to be 'little and unknown,' of small value and narrow circle in a world so hungry for help and strength and uplift, yet beloved and prized by God? No. I wanted to be now and in all worlds - my very utmost. I fully purposed to be one whom the multitude would love, lean on, and bless. Lying on the prairie grass, and lifting my hands toward the sky, I used to say in my inmost spirit, 'What is it that I am to be, O God?' I did not wish to climb by others' overthrow, and I laid no schemes to undermine them, but I meant that the evolution of my powers should do for me all that it would. I felt that a woman owed it to all other women to live as bravely, as helpfully, and as grandly as she could, and to let the world know it." I was largely the result of the efforts of outraged but courageous women that the 18th amendment was placed in the Constitution of the United States. Shall we give up the struggle or shall we continue to fight for our homes, our children and ourselves, aye and for our country? This fair land of ours—the land of destiny, of glorious promise, must not RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE again succumb to the wine bibber and to those who would make traffic of the souls of men for the sake of profit. Many noble women have consecrated their lives to this cause. Evangeline Booth, who knows whereof she speaks, admits that because of lawbreakers prohibition has not accomplished all it should have done but she knows that drinking in the slums and among the poor has decreased many fold so she is not discouraged. The commander writes: "First and last I am a soldier in the great conflict against sorrow and sin and shame. In the front line of this warfare I have given all my life. It is here that I shall give my last service and after years of experience I think I know the difference between a winning and a losing fight. The fight against drink can only end one way, and that way is victory." For one hundred years the Lord, through His servants, has warned us and forewarned us against the evils of wine and strong drink. He has promised observers of His counsels rich blessings of health of wisdom and knowledge. For one hundred years the world has been on trial. The sifting is now in progress. Shall we, the mothers of Israel, compromise our principles with the adversary? Or shall we continue with all our strength to battle for righteousness and trust in the Lord for results? We know that His word will not fail. His laws will eventually triumph.