Notes from the Field
Northwestern States Mission:
MRS. PEARL C. SLOAN, president of the Northwestern States Mission Relief Societies, writes as follows: "In the reports from the different districts of the mission I learn that the conventions held have been instrumental in assisting Relief Society women to put over their social work in a more efficient way. The many ways in which the sisters have tried to render constructive relief have been a revelation. Where many of them were unable to contribute money they have given food supplies. Some of the groups have cooperated very closely with the welfare agencies, and one of the presidents has gone one day every week and contributed her time to the Welfare Bureau in that District. In another District there were a number of families who needed clothing, and these mothers were very willing and glad to remodel articles for their families, but did not have access to a sewing machine, so the Relief Society purchased two inexpensive sewing machines and are loaning these to these mothers. It has been a real help to these families. In Districts where they have had clothing that would not be used, it has been forwarded to the mission office, and from there forwarded to families who could use it. One Society wrote that they did not have any extra clothing to send, but sent a lovely quilt that was made out of sugar bags and percale blocks. This in turn was sent out in a District where there was no Relief Society to a mother with a very large family, who wrote a wonderful letter of appreciation saying that it had never been her privilege to own as nice a quilt before. Portland has had a very splendid commissary. Many articles of clothing have been donated by friends who were not members of our Church, and they have been very liberal turning over clothing to the mission to be sent out to different families in need. In sending out the articles, different sizes and ages were required, and great care was needed in the distribution. There are many cases that are very touching that have come to us through the distribution of these articles. The different Relief Agencies have been very kind in cooperating with the Relief Society, and are always anxious and willing to do anything that they can, and in turn the L. D. S. Sisters have always tried to be careful, and not duplicate any relief that has been given.
"It has been necessary to make a number of changes in the executive officers in some of our Societies, but the sisters who are taking up this work are all very splendid young women, and willing workers, so they will carry on in the same efficient way.
"In the Conference held by the Portland Relief Society the second Sunday night in December, Mayor Elect Joseph Carson was the speaker. His subject was 'Citizen of Tomorrow.' He was very much astonished when he found such a large audience to greet him, even though he had been told that he would find a splendid attendance. After the meeting he seemingly expected to find just a small group of interested women, but as the Church notices always appear in the paper it was not only the fine L. D. S. Group of people who always attend our meeting, but many of his friends that he met there.
"Life in the mission field is a very busy one, however, I have tried to take time to work with our fine Parent Teachers Association, and have enjoyed the contacts I have made there very much. We have a board of 20 women who all live in the District in which our Church is located, and I believe that everyone of us belong to different denominations, but I could not ask for any better treatment than I have received through these fine women, and of course they all know that I am a Latter-day Saint."
Hawaiian Mission:
From Hawaii comes pleasant greetings and a report from Sister Verna Murphy, President of the Hawaiian Relief Society: "In a recent Hawaiian quilt exhibit here in Honolulu, three of the L. D. S. Relief Society sisters were awarded prizes. Next year the Relief Societies intend to enter a greater number of quilts than they did this year, and if they do I feel certain that more prizes will be carried off by them than in this exhibit just held.
"It is a pleasure to again report progress in Relief Society work here in Hawaii. The members are humble and sincere in their service, and it is a privilege to labor among them. On their work and business day they are making many beautiful quilts and other beautiful and useful articles with which they are making their homes and the homes of others more attractive.
"In our three largest Districts, the work is being carried on under the direction of organizations similar to the Stake organizations in Zion. District Relief Society Supervisors visit the different Branches in their districts regularly, and are deriving joy and satisfaction from their service. Their visits encourage the Branch Societies and greater interest is noted everywhere. We hope to have all districts functioning in the same way within a year.
"We are delighted to report that young girls are joining the Societies and are very interested in the work. Many have become visiting teachers and this creates a greater interest among the older members.
"We are enjoying our study of the Doctrine and Covenants. This study is new among the Sisters and they do delight in learning more of the Gospel. Their knowledge of it is astounding. The brethren of the Priesthood, when it is possible, join with the Sisters in this study and say they are deriving much good. Some branches, where English is understood, and where the young girls are translating the articles into Hawaiian, the Magazine is appreciated very much. As you will note from our report, seventy are now taking it, and we are doing our best to help them appreciate it."
Tooele Stake:
Word comes from the Tooele stake of a very fine program for the coming year. To quote the words of the Work and Business Supervisor, Mrs. Gertrude Jefferies: "In our stake this year we are making an extra effort to improve our Work and Business Meetings. Planning work that will be beneficial and economical to all the wards is the foundation of our program. Next Fall we intend to have a display of our work at the County Fair. The following outline will show what we are trying to do. Our motto is Improvement—our aim to utilize every spare moment—our desire is for self improvement—and our objective is to beautify.
Improvement means: I—I'll try M—Making most of my time NOTES FROM THE FIELD P—Perfecting my talents R—Results obtained O—Opportunity V—Value received E—Ever willing M—Mastering Difficulties E—Earnest efforts N—Never give up T—True to the test."
Northern States Mission:
A most interesting report comes from the Northern States Mission. Sister Artemesia Romney, Mission Relief Society President, writes: "My heart is filled with gratitude to my Father in Heaven for the privilege I have of working with this splendid group of women. Although a great many of the husbands are out of work most of the time, and some do not have the real necessities of life, still the sisters of the Relief Society are filled with the Spirit of Love and Charity, and are working hard to help each other, and to take care of the needy. If they have no needy in their own Branch, they aid another Branch. The Visiting Teachers are organized in most of the Branches, and are doing a great deal of good by contacting the members. Where they do not have enough members to select teachers, the officers do the teaching, as you will see from the reports. The sisters are doing a great deal of missionary work in giving tracts and Books of Mormon and engaging in Gospel conversations. The Relief Society work is a great stimulus to the investigator.
"The Work and Business meeting is a great factor in bringing the women out, and many of the Branches have cupboards full of canned fruit and vegetables, which will be given to those who are in need.
"The spirit of the work is growing in this mission, and we have organized three new Relief Society branches in 1932, and have three more ready for organization. We have discontinued two in the past year.
"The sisters are becoming better acquainted with Relief Society work, and are learning to take its duties and responsibilities more seriously. I am working hard to get every Relief Society President to write up the history of her organization from its beginning, and send it to me, so it might be compiled here in the office.
"On the 17th of March, 1932, a number of the branches put on plays and pageants, and were very successful.
"Although the report shows a decrease in many instances, I feel that even more effort has been put forth this year than last. Many of our sisters and their families are in destitute circumstances—yet as is always the case, the sisters have a courageous, patient, and hopeful attitude."
Ensign Stake:
It is gratifying to note the steadily growing interest in the Literary lessons of the Relief Society. The women appreciate the efforts of able class leaders in handling the well outlined course of study in cultural training, and have reacted to the incentive with greater outside reading. Especially delightful was the lesson on Goethe's Faust. So pleased was the Bishop of the 12-13 Ward of Ensign Stake that he requested the Relief Society to repeat the lesson for the ward generally, and offered them the full time any Sunday evening they chose. Under the fine management of Mrs. J. P. Fernelius, chorister and Mrs. Amelia Bennion, literary class 234 leader, a beautiful program interspersed with music from Gounod's Opera was arranged and carried out on February 12, 1933. Nearly 600 persons attended. Mrs. Bennion gave the story of Faust—stressing the beautiful lesson of the drama as only Goethe of all the great writers has interpreted the theme 'What shall it profit a man if he gain the whole world and lose his soul." She explained how in the end Faust through sorrow and suffering had learned that only in unselfishness and service to mankind could he find that which he sought, Peace and Happiness. The following musical program by well known artists added to the enjoyment.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Opening Chorus, "Prayer", by the Gustave Adolphus Swedish Chorus, under the direction of Axel B. C. Ohlson.
Selection, String Orchestra, directed by Mr. Brunswick.
Valentine's Farewell, Clive Bradford.
Mephistopheles' Song of the Golden Calf, Sten Englund.
Flower Song, Miss Helen Skidmore.
Waltz Song, Orchestra.
Tenor Solo, "Oh Dwelling Holy", J. P. Fernelius.
Spinning Song, Miss Skidmore.
Jewel Song, Mrs. Eula Sadler.
Romance, Miss Jessie Evans.
Soldiers' Chorus, Swedish Male Chorus.
The accompanists were, Misses Lorraine Smith, Becky Almond, Mabel Woods, Beatrice Davis.
I Didn't Dream By Alberta J. Engar
This Poem received First Honorable Mention in the 1932 Eliza Roxey Snow Poetry Contest.
I planted in the soil a seed Lifeless, flat and brown Knowing little of its need. Would success my effort crown?
The sun and rain upon it smiled, The seed began to swell, I waited anxiously the while Content that all was well,— I didn't dream such joy was found When it peeped above the ground.
The plant that pushed up through the soil Is covered now with bloom, A little care, a little toil My recompense came soon.
The traveler on the thoroughfare Marvels at the sight, Both he and all who look may share With me, my real delight— I didn't dream such loveliness Was hidden in a seed.
A babe was given to my care Helpless and unclothed, O would it, like the blossoms fair Develop unafraid?
I fed and clothed my little one With a devotion deep, Nor faltered till my tasks were done And baby fast asleep— I didn't dream its waking smile Could bring such bliss complete.
Through years of tender care and love I've watched my baby grow; Sought inspiration from above In choice of seeds to sow,
Among my plants there are no weeds Their loveliness to mar, My child responds with worthy deeds Bearing Truth to lands afar,— I didn't dream divinity In a little child could be.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
THE GENERAL BOARD
MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON President MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN First Counselor MRS. JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD Second Counselor MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND General Secretary and Treasurer
Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Ida P. Beal Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Katie M. Barker Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Mary Connelly Kimball Mrs. Cora L. Bennion
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Manager - Louise Y. Robinson Editor Assistant Manager - Mary Connelly Kimball Amy Brown Lyman