Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon
April smiled through her tears as a bright winged oriole flashed across the sky.
Miss FRANCES PERKINS, United States secretary of labor, while not an ardent suffrage worker was a strong advocate and one of the few women who followed the Lucy Stone method of retaining her maiden name after marriage. Miss Perkins strongly favors minimum wage standards for women and a shorter day.
MAUD HART LOVELACE in her new novel, "The Charming Sally," ventures to depict the advent of a theatrical company among the austere and sober Puritans of colonial days. With authentic historical material she weaves a very delightful story.
MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN of Utah, third Vice President of the National Council of Women is one of the committee preparing the ambitious program for the Century of Progress at the Chicago Fair this summer. The Council has now announced the names of the 12 outstanding women leaders of the last one hundred years as selected in a recent contest. Likenesses of these 12 women will appear in an appropriate frieze in the Councils' exhibit, the names are as follows: Mary Baker Eddy, Jane Addams, Clara Barton, Frances Willard, Susan B. Anthony, Helen Keller, Harriet Beecher Stowe, Julia Ward Howe, Carrie Chapman Catt, Amelia Earhart Putnam, Mary Lyon and Mary E. Woolley.
ROSA PONSELLE in Italy and Eide Norena, lyric soprano of the Paris opera at the Metropolitan in New York seems a fair exchange of fair ladies.
MARY GARDEN of Chicago opera fame is now singing in a motion picture theatre on Broadway, New York.
E. M. DELAFIELD'S new book, "A Provincial Lady in London," is most popular. Miss Delafield is now regular reviewer on the London Morning Post.
ELIZABETH MADOX ROBERTS has issued a collection of her short stories. She is claimed as a brilliant star in the galaxy of Southern writers, and a master in short story writing.
MRS. FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT and nearly all the ladies of the Cabinet have special lines of work, if not careers, so the social life in Washington is likely to be somewhat colorful and more interesting than usual.
EDITH HAMILTON in her latest book, "The Roman Way," gives a very interesting glimpse into the customs, habits, manners and ways of the Roman people that is most delightful reading without aiming to be historical.
The French women have again been defeated in their attempt to gain the suffrage, though this time they refused to pay taxes unless granted the right to vote.