B. The successful parent who tries to force his child into his pattern of life. "Henry, Jr., a youth of nearly eighteen when he became known to the clinic, was considered by the friends of the family and by his employer?the proprietor of a large art store to be a 'prince.' Yet his own father was hardly able to endure his presence in the home. After a school career that had been one long series of humiliations to his parents. He had recently dropped out of high school and gone to work?he had never done anything in the least disgraceful?That anything might have been made of his son's own spontaneous interests?in horticulture and sketching?had seemingly never occurred to him. He had refused point blank to let the boy study art. He wasn't going to have a dauber in his family." (Sayles, p. 44.) "Mrs. Yale came from an Old New England family of whose record through six generations she was proud. 'Such excellent stock ought,' she thought, 'to have produced something better than Nora,' her eight-year-old daughter. Nora was doing poorly in school; her earlier teachers had thought her 'peculiar' and 'retarded,' though her present teacher considered, rather, that she was 'slow' and 'discouraged.' Her mother was much embarrassed that children in families of less standing should get better marks, and was severe and harshly critical in her handling of the child." (Sayles, p. 45.) "On the other hand, no amount of forcing or of family ambition can increase the child's original intellectual equipment. It is sad to see children despoiled of an educational advantage from which we know they could profit because of their high mentality. It is quite as pathetic to see the dullard being prodded and censored because he cannot advance beyond the limits set for him by nature. Very often the child in this situation is as anxious to succeed as 251 are the family to have him do so; then his foredoomed failures are a great source of unhappiness." (Blanchard: The Child and Society, p. 76.)
C. The successful brother or sister who must be imitated. "As one mother put it, there 'had been no let-downs on either side of the family,' and her concern over her second son's poor standing in school was clearly bound up with her pride in this record. Both parents, in this case, were inordinately proud of the brilliant college record being made by their eldest son, and found it extremely difficult to accept the apparent inferiority of the second. As a matter of fact, this boy too had excellent ability, and actually cared more for success than his indifferent manner and lack of concentration upon school tasks seemed to indicate. Less of a student than his brother, he had lived for years in the atmosphere of adulation with which the other was surrounded and had come to accept his own minor role without much question. His scholarly father's relative indifference to him was none the less felt by the boy with a keenness that astonished his parents when they came to realize it.' (Sayles: The Problem Child at Home, p. 42.) "A fourteen-year-old girl, repeating the eighth grade for the third time, represents this sacrifice of individual welfare to the interests of the family. Her father is a college graduate; her mother had a normal school education and was a teacher. The two eldest daughters are college graduates and are teaching in high school. Parents and sisters demand that the youngest daughter follow in the footsteps of the two older ones. Neither the continued repetitions at school nor the assurance of a psychologist that the girl has insufficient mentality to undertake high 252 school work, avails to convince them of the mistake they are making in holding the girl to these demands. As a result, she is unhappy both at home and school. She has a real flair (sagacious sense) for dressmaking and millinery, and could earn her living by its development, would her parents permit her to leave school and learn these trades. Eventually, they will become sufficiently discouraged over her continued failures in school to permit her to go to work, in all probability. But because of their refusal to recognize the innate differences in mental equipment which are characteristic of individuals within the same family, they will send her out from her home with a feeling of disappointment and insecurity which may tend to produce maladjustments even if she eventually finds her own level, because success in any other field than that which they ordained will seem trivial." (Blanchard: The Child and Society, pages 78-9.)
D. Emotional Differences lead to misunderstandings. Fegre and Anderson comment on one case as follows: "Parents think they love and treat all their children alike, not realizing that it is impossible to do so. As each child in a family has a different environment, so the parent in that environment is an unknown quantity in every case. A mother may love a child violently and still lack understanding. A woman whose children are grown voiced her regrets over her attitude toward one daughter, with whom, she said, she had always been more or less at swords' points. The mother, very quick and intense by nature, attempted from the outset to prod the slow, deliberate child to behavior like her own. Ambitious, quick to see through a problem herself, she had urged her daughter RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE on intensifying by every endeavor the antagonism which had its roots in the wide discrepancy in their inherited equipment.
"Parents seldom fail to recognize individual differences in their children. They do make mistakes when it comes to lending all the aid possible to the best development of their children's powers, when those abilities differ from their own. As Crichton Miller put the situation, the parent often conceives of his relationship as that of the potter to the clay, rather than that of the gardener tending the development of a bulb. The potter has in mind the definite outlines of the bowl he is shaping, whereas the gardener cannot alter by one jot or tittle the capacities of the bulb he is growing. He can, however, by providing a sunny place, with good soil and plenty of water, watch it unfold and develop all that is in it; or by neglect or improper care, can see it wither and shrivel into a scrawny, ridiculous caricature of the flower it might have become.
"The child of mediocre intelligence may, by careful handling of its emotions, become as successful and happy a member of society as the child whose brightness sets him apart. It is frequently true that the individual of brilliant intellect fails because of unstable emotions to make the adjustments which make for equilibrium. Effort is bent on training his mind; but if his emotions are neglected, he will fail to become a useful, happy adult." (Fegre and Anderson: Child Care and Training, pp. 246-7.) "Whether emotional differences are almost entirely due to heredity, as some psychologists believe, or whether they are the result of environmental influences, as we have suggested, they certainly play no small role in individualization. And LESSON DEPARTMENT the child's possibility for personal happiness in maturity and for proper social adaptation is determined in large measure, by the direction in which individualization proceeds." (Blanchard, p. 227.)
References:
1. Editorial Journal of Educational Method, December, 1930.
2. Report of the President of Columbia University, 1928.
3. Proceedings?Department of Superintendence of the National Education Association, 1931.
4. Journal of the National Education Association, April, 1928.
5. Sayles: The Problem Child at Home, p. 46.
6. Sayles: The Problem Child at Home, p. 49.
7. Fegre and Anderson: Child Care and Training, p. 72.
8. Sayles: Ibid, p. 44.
9. Sayles: Ibid, p. 45.
10. Blanchard: The Child and Society, p. 76.
11. Sayles: Ibid, p. 42.
12. Blanchard: Ibid, pp. 78-9.
13. Fegre and Anderson: Ibid, pp. 246-7.
14. Blanchard: Ibid, p. 227.
Loyalty By Mary C. Imlay
Once upon a time, God came down and talked with a Boy. He sent messengers with plates of gold and power to perform miracles. When Satan saw this, he called his warriors together and appointed Temptation as General. He said to them, "This is the beginning of the end. If this effort of his is successful, we are doomed. Rally your men, and fight as you have never fought before." So Temptation sent Greed weighted down with money, to buy the golden plates, and with instruction that if he could not buy?to steal. The Boy must not keep the plates. But the Boy's Armor of Faith and His Sword of Loyalty, sent Greed home wounded and crestfallen. Then a great council was called, and Satan himself took command. The Boy had grown to manhood and had fortified His position with an organization. "Drive them from their homes, burn, plunder, send disease and starvation. That will make them surrender." But still the Man marched on. Finally when every other resource was exhausted, Satan took Death, and came to the Man. Not a quiet, peaceful Death, but a violent, vengeful Death. "Will you give up Your God and His work if we spare you now?" The Man looked squarely at Death and answered "No." His Sword of Loyalty He passed to His followers as Death took Him. That Sword, burnished and guarded in the long pilgrimage to found a new land, is now bequeathed to us. May we ever keep it bright and keen through constant use.
All my life I have lived in the presence of fine men and beautiful men going to their death because of alcohol. I call it the greatest trap that life has set for the feet of genius; and I record my opinion that the prohibition amendment is the greatest step in progress taken by America since the freeing of the slave?Upton Sinclair.