Plant Perennials for Perpetual Gardens By Cora Carver Ritchie
How about digging that garden spot back of the house, John? It's time the flowers were in," said Mrs. Housewife every Spring to her busy husband. Every Spring he put it off as long as he could making any kind of an excuse. He didn't mean to neglect his wife or her garden, but you know?
Now, Mrs. Housewife, when he digs it this Spring let it be for the last time. How? You say. Easy. Just plant perennials and never again will you need to ask and ask. What mulching your garden will need you can easily do yourself, one flower at a time if you care to.
As perennials are those flowers whose tops die down in the winter months but the roots live from year to year. One planting does the trick. Perennial means perpetual so forever after you will have perpetual bloom in that otherwise ugly spot. Perennials will grow and thrive where nothing else will even start. Try a few this year. Think of all the places in your own yard you have always been ashamed of?places you don't like visitors to see. Work on the old back fence that separates your house from the rest of the place or cover that old cellar, or dress up that old ditch you have always wanted out of the way, that shady place just outside the north window where the view has hurt your eyes all this time or make that cozy corner you always wanted for hot afternoons. Just a few perpetual vines and shrubs mixed with your perennials will transform any unsightly place into a thing of beauty and comfort.
For that old fence, or to make a background for the rest of your garden, start close to the fence with a few hardy vines, such as grape vine, hop, tea or matrimony vine, then plant a row of hollyhocks, then perennial larkspur, next shasta daisy or iris, finish with a dainty dianthus or feverfew. All are very hardy and will grow easily from seed or plant. Try a hop vine or perennial sweet pea over the front of the cellar. A cluster of shasta daisies on either side of the doorway would live through much traffic.
How happy you should be if the ditch comes anywhere near your house or garden. You can transform it into an eternal everchanging beauty spot. First on either side of the bridge put in clumps of different colored iris. They stand much wear and tear and still grow on. Lilies of the Valley will grow along the banks. Put a few rocks in for mountain effect. All the different ornamental grasses, papyrus, or common fountain grass is beautiful and easy to start. Rock rose will fill the place you want to keep a low line. Lupine, myrtle and even the ferns will add to the beauty of your stream. Whole pages might be written on rustic bridges, side pools, harbors, etc., you can make out of your ditch, that will in no way hinder the flow of the water but will add greatly to the attractiveness and interest of your home.
For the shady places bring the hardy ferns from the mountains, or try monkshood, viola, lily of the valley, phlox, myrtle and pansy. For semi-shade the astella, or spirea, in rose, pink, white or salmon, makes lovely beds or borders, all are hardy.
PLANT PERENNIALS
In hard clay plant shasta daisy, perennial peas, aster, and feverfew. If you have a spot around your house which is rocky, sandy or pathbeaten, plant some of the lovely ornamental grasses such as rattle snake or quaking grass, fountain or pampas. If you would like a white bed or border, perennial aster, phlox, larkspur, lily of the valley, shasta daisy, iris, baby breath, peonies, and feverfew are pretty. Now add a few bold colors for emphasis, say blue lobelia, platycodon or larkspur. For a blue garden bed, or border, use larkspur or the giant delphinium, monkshood, lobelia, perennial aster, iris and fox glove. All are blue and will keep blooming for six months. For a red border first a background of red hollyhocks, then phlox, salvia or lupine, stocks, redhot poker, carnation, dianthus, bleeding heart, salvia, primrose or perennial sweet pea. For a mixed garden, or pink and white border, pink hollyhocks, aster, phlox, lupine and perennial peas. For a yellow bed or border, start with gold dust, add iceland poppy in shades of yellow or white, then plant the yellow African daisy, sneeze wort, or boxwood which grows to be about eight feet tall. Mix in appropriate places white rock rose, baby-breath and feverfew. Off in that odd corner try the new wonder combination, the artemesia, or silverking, which has a large spray-like misty bloom, now surround it with common golden glow; the results would please the most fastidious.
Blending of shades is as essential in the garden as in the house. Varied colors and heights must be considered. Plant white in clusters or between other colors. When in doubt always use white as a mixer. This 255 is an age of color, but some color combinations must be avoided. Such as magenta with shades of yellow. Some plants need to grow in masses, others in decided rows. Lack of good design may bring these remarks: "You ought to have seen my perennial poppies," or, "I wish you could have been here when my peonies were in bloom," etc. Well designed gardens need not suffer these seasonal revulsions. Nearly all perennials will give the second bloom if the seed pods and dry leaves are cut off.
Here are a few don'ts for the flower grower: Don't plant your perennials the same day John digs the garden. Let the soil air at least a day. Don't buy or transplant on a hot, sunshiny day; choose the rainy day or cool of evening. Don't pick out the plants in bloom, or the largest ones. Buy medium sized plants. Don't wait till late spring; start as soon as the frost is out of the ground. Don't plant in squares. Don't plant question marks in your lawns. Avoid the same level sky line. Be as near mother nature as possible. Soften all corners and avoid monotony in color, foliage and height. Do not mix too many kinds?two or three in a group is the most effective. Don't use two bold colors together. Mix soft colors with bright ones to enliven masses. Do not plant all seeds at one time. Rather make a succession of plantings for continual bloom. Do not forget to use lime to kill slugs in damp places. Don't be afraid to use soap suds to wash plants that harbor green aphis or plant lice. Don't forget to cut, fertilize and cover for dormant months. Coarse straw with burlap or coarse manure is good. Don't be afraid to try any perennial. Don't forget to water, feed and love. Don't think because you rent a place you are excused as 256 a flower grower. Plant a perennial, then if you have to move you leave a bit of loveliness in an otherwise sordid world for the next person. Perhaps she needs that bit of cheer. Don't forget the children. Give them a garden of their own. They will watch eagerly for the first signs of perennials, remembering the blooms of the previous season and will cherish any spot you give them. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Your neighbor will exchange, divide and give her perennials. You may learn from her, too. Flower growers are the biggest hearted people I know and oh how they love to sing the praises of their own gardens, and why not? Flowers, especially perennials are really a thing of joy forever. Perennial means perpetual?plant a perennial garden.