Lilac Lure By Lella Marler Hoggan HE soft dusk was heavy with the sweet odor of lilacs. Clusters of the purple-tinted blossoms drooped gracefully from the luxuriant arbor near by. A little trailing breeze stirred the leafage lightly, and spilled perfume extravagantly across the vine-covered porch. The garden was bathed in a silver shimmer of white moonlight. From out the shadows came _ the chirp of a night bird calling to his mate. A muffled twitter sounded in reply. The night was entrancing. Margaret was held in its magic spell. When she looked at the straight, light hair of her suitor, she saw a cluster of soft, brown curls. His strident tones did not carry true; for she heard the music of a deep, well modulated voice, that suggested rippling laughter. How could she hear what he was saying to her when her soul was so filled with old sweet dreams? Dreams that had never been fulfilled. Memories of the lover of her youth would not be crowded out of her heart tonight. The moonlight, the mating call of the birds, the heavy perfume of the lilacs, carried her back through the years—back to another moonlit night in May, another sweet-scented arbor in an old-fashioned garden. She drew herself up with a start. Why must other men stand always in a shadow before her? Why must their virtues be forever compared with this past ideal? Why should her life be stripped of its romantic joy because of a memory, a dream that could not come true? Had not Philip Norton made his choice ten years ago when he married pretty little Lillian Gray? Then why should she permit the memory of her youthful romance with Philip to spoil her mature years? To rob her of life's richest experiences, and leave her alone when the shadows of old age should finally spread their empty wings about her? Time had mellowed and sweetened Margaret McLane's thirty-five years of life, and made of her a charming, beautiful woman. The ten years she had spent in a hospital had given her a broader understanding, a deeper sympathy, a sweeter patience, and a more loving generous outlook on life. But she wanted a home. To be a housewife, to do simple, homely tasks in her own time and way, was her ideal of happy usefulness. To be a mother— But her thoughts were interrupted by Arnold Simpson's voice as he walked back and forth before her. "My dear girl," he was saying, "the years do not wait. Why not take your happiness now, before some trick of fate dooms you to the hospital for life?' His attitude was almost severe. "Yes," admitted Margaret, seriously, "invalid trays, and white cots do in time lose their attraction for one." "T shall be only too glad," he promised, ''to give you a beautiful home with every comfort and convenience. Ease and luxury shall be yours. What more can you desire?" A cold little chill crossed Margaret's heart. She felt that she was being bought with a price. "Mr. Simpson," and her voice was deep with emotion, "let me assure you, I fully appreciate your gener- 208 ous offer. You are very kind. But I—I—simply can't—'" "You shall not give me my final answer tonight," he protested, rising hurriedly, and coming nearer. "Wait awhile, there is no hurry. Think it over." Again he paced back and forth, clasping and unclasping his hands nervously. He was ten years her senior in reality, and older than that in appearance. ""We cannot be young always," he meditated, more to himself than to her. 'And there comes a time, at the end of the road, when life seems empty. And gray if we are alone. One needs companionship." Margaret smiled sweetly, "Companionship and marriage are not necessarily synonymous terms," said she. "Charming, interesting, old people seem never to be lonely." He shrugged his shoulders and smiled sardonically, "But, my dear, age brings its aches and pains and bitterness," he argued. "It is hard to feel that one is not needed." She did not reply. There was a hurt look in her large dark eyes. Not seeing the pained expression on her face, he' continued, '"Prosperity opens the door to old age and overlooks perversity, you know." He closed his lips in a straight line, and fingered his watch chain, nervously. "We should put beauty into our lives," she said softly, "against the day when our charms must, of necessity, offset our tired hands and empty purses." "But why contemplate the unpleasant phases of life?' He raised his eyebrows and matched his fingertips as he continued, "You are young and charming. You have a large circle of friends. Think what it would mean to you to be in a position to meet them socially; to be free from financial care; to travel; to study; to rest. Think it over, girl. Give yourself a chance." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Margaret turned away from him. She dared not trust the expression of her face even to his casual gaze. "Let us go for a ride," she said, rising. He was glad to accept her suggestion. "It is a wonderful night," he announced, scanning the landscape, as if he had just that moment discovered the beauty of the -night. "Wonderful," she echoed, dreamily. They drove far out into the country, out into the quiet places, where little mountain streams rippled softly over pebbles; where the pastures, closed in by rustic willow fences, were fragrant with the intense sweetness of blossoming clover and meadow flowers; and where night birds called from thickets of wild roses. The car glided softly along in the moonlight. And then, out of the night, a small house shaped itself against the background of the dark mountains. It was a humble abode, nestling close beside tall lilac bushes. A kerosene lamp on a small table cast a dim shaft of light across the graveled path. There was a break in the even rhythm of the purring car. Simpson stopped directly in front of the little lighted window, and stepped out to see what was the matter. Before he was at the wheel again, the house door opened. A man with a cane came slowly along the walk, betraying by his groping manner and the dark glasses he wore, the fact that he was feeling, rather than seeing, the path ahead of him. He was not an old man. Dark hair clustered aganist his white brow. And his strong hand reached out pathetically, searching for the latch on the old-fashioned wooden gate. He spoke in a deep, well modulated voice. "T am glad you stopped," he said. I heard the car and tried to hurry LILAC out. I have already missed more than one car tonight." Margaret could not reply. She turned her face away from the pathetic picture, and tried to still her throbbing heart. What strange freak of fate had blotted out the last decade of her life, and brought her face to face with the past? If she kept silent she need not betray herself. For poor Philip Norton's unseeing eyes could not recognize her. "What is your trouble?' questioned Arnold Simpson. "Anything we can do to help you?" "T have a very sick child," Philip answered. "We need a doctor. There is a telephone a mile down the road, but there is no one to go. I could grope my way down all right, but I dare not leave the little fellow alone while I go. He is only seven." "We shall be glad to drive down," said Simpson, "but how is it you are here alone with him?" "My wife died four years ago." There was a note of sadness in the deep voice. Margaret wanted to cry out in sympathy. Little Lillian Gray dead. Poor, dear Philip! "My mother has been with us ever since,' he went on, after a pause. "Norman seemed so much better yesterday, that I persuaded Mother to go to my sister's for a few days rest. I am surely glad you chanced to stop." "Tell us who your doctor is," said Simpson. "We shall go right down and call him." Margaret felt relieved when he mentioned Dr. Hugh Bernard, for she had never met Dr. Bernard. He could not betray her. "My friend here is a professional nurse,' explained Mr. Simpson. "Perhaps she would not mind sitting with the child while you ride down to the telephone with me." Margaret stepped into the room where the sick child lay on his bed LURE 209 tossing and moaning. One glance at the pitiful little patient told her that he was suffering from some heart trouble, and that he must have immediate professional help. "Poor little fellow," she whispered, pressing one of his white wasted hands between her own warm fingers, "How long has he lain here?" "Six months," said Philip, and there was a note of sadness in his voice. Margaret knew the long days and the longer nights that Philip must have bent over that little white bed, listening to the faint flutter of that murmuring heart, coaxing a lagging appetite to partake of some dainty morsel, watching, waiting, praying. Philip's hands reached out gropingly, to smooth the crumpled covers about the child. "Norman, lover, Daddy has to go down to talk to the doctor. This lady will take care of you until Daddy comes back. It will not be long." Norman's big dark eyes looked into Margaret's face, seriously. The little white hands trembled, and he moved about on his pillow uneasily. "You will let me stay with you, dear, I know you will," she smiled. Again Philip bent over him, speaking in an assuring voice. Then he kissed Norman tenderly and groped his way out of the sick room. Stooping over the pitiful little figure, Margaret smoothed back his dark curls, and smiled sweetly into the pathetic, trusting face—a miniature of Philip Norton's own face, Save it was so drawn and pale and so marked with longing. "Are you in any pain tonight," she asked gently, as she dexterously smoothed his sheets, fluffed his pillows, and carefully drew the coverlet across the bed. "Tt hurts tonight, right here,". He admitted, placing his hand on his chest. 210 Margaret questioned him gently concerning his needs, as she carefully prepared him for his night's rest. ° Her calm assurance soon quieted his nervousness. He scarcely realized that he was sipping a glass of warm milk through a straw, so engrossed was he in the fascinating story she was telling him. When Philip and Mr. Simpson returned they found Norman sleeping quietly. But Margaret was very anxious concerning the child's condition. "When will the doctor be here?' she asked at once. "Not before morning," Philip replied. 'He is out of town on a very important case." "Ts the child dangerously sick?" questioned Simpson, aside to Margaret. "Very serious," said she simply. "IT shall not leave him until mornx9 ing. "You really think it necessary to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE remain?' And Arnold Simpson's impatience sounded in his peevish tones. "Absolutely." "Shall I stay or come for you?" "Do as you think best," she said, "but it would not be right for me to leave, now." He looked at the child so pitifully thin and white. He noticed the labored breathing and the fluttering little throat. 'At the side of the bed sat the father—his prematurely dimmed vision still guarded from the pale kerosene flame by the dark glasses—the father, so earnest and sympathetic, and yet so helpless. In contrast, he saw Margaret, strong and calm and capable; her skilled hands preparing the smallest details for the child's safety and comfort; her trained fingers reading the fluttering pulse; her practiced ear listening to the murmuring heart-beat. She moved about the room calm and unafraid, prepared for whatever LILAC emergency might arise during the long night. Yes, Margaret was right, she must not leave. "T shall come for you in the morning," said Arnold Simpson, "unless you think I had better stay?" His voice rose to an interrogation. "No," she replied, decidedly. "You had better go. I am sure everything will be all right." Simpson, satisfied, walked out into the cool moonlight and drove quietly back to town alone. She spoke with assurance, yet something about her voice as it fell on Philip's sensitive ear, made him alert with a new fear, a nameless foreboding of what was lurking in the silent hours just ahead of them. And so they watched together beside the patient little sufferer, while the white moon mounted high into the starry night, and the world of living creatures slept in silence. Whenever Norman tossed on his pillow or moaned in his sleep, Margaret's comforting touch calmed his nervous movements and her tender, reliant voice quieted his nameless fears. More than once Philip raised his hand to his forehead, as if he would brush away the veil that hid Margaret from his view. At last he spoke, "Your voice," he said, "there is something about your voice that reminds me of some one I knew long ago. And yet, perhaps it is only the night. The night is so—so—soft and fragrant. It brings back memories—memories of other days." "Lilac time, May time, is rich in tender memories for all of us, I think," said Margaret in a quiet, practical tone. "Yes," he consented, plainly not satisfied. Occasionally he would go to the sleeping child and listen again to the throbbing heart, the little flutterLURE 211 ing heart, that murmured its hopeless story so pathetically. "Do they ever recover?" he asked her at last. "Yes," she said confidently, "they often recover, almost fully, their normal health and strength. But eternal, painstaking vigilance is the price of their lives. Your child is in a very serious condition." Philip sat silent near the foot of the little bed. Margaret spoke but little. At times she felt half afraid that the black glasses would suddenly fall from Philip's eyes, and she would stand before him revealed. And yet she knew that a heavier veil than any that a bit of glass might provide, now held her securely from his sight. He must never guess her identity. He was the same Philip of old. The ideal, that through the years, had stood between her youthful dreams and a realization of happiness. And yet he was different— so different. She groped about in her memory trying to find out just what charm, what magic holding power was lacking. Was it merely the mark of age, that time places so relentlessly upon all men? Or had her memory tricked her? Could it be that she had built up a dreamman, around the personality of Philip, recalling only the ideality; the chivalry, of her youthful hero? Or, after all, had the change been wrought in her own life, not in Philip's at all? More to shut out the breath of the lilacs, than the night air, Margaret finally closed the window. "T am afraid it is getting too cool for him," was her alibi. Philip sat quiet, his head in his hands for so long a time, that Margaret thought he had fallen asleep. Then his voice broke the silence softly, "Science has proven herself a miracle worker," he began. "The 212 doctors tell me that there is a possibility of restoring my vision." "Yes," encouraged Margaret, 'in many cases it has been done." "It would be wonderful," he ruminated, more to himself than to her, "to be able to see again. To see the starlit skies and to watch the spring come creeping back into the meadows. And what a joy it would be, to look into my boy's pretty little face once more." It was so pitiful she could not reply. Would the restoration of his vision, she wondered, bring back the unfaltering initiative and the high heart of other days? When he opened his eyes to the vision of a glorious May morning, would he be the same Philip she remembered so well? It was nearly midnight. The little patient had become more restless, and the two silent watchers had forgotten their own meditations and dreams, drawn to his bedside by a common fear that clutched at their hearts. Occasionally he would moan or call for his father. "Daddy is right here," Philip would reply. "What does my little boy want?' The faltering childish voice would trail off incoherently, and the boy would sleep again. But as he continued tossing about, his actions became more vigorous and alarming. Philip could not see Margaret's hurried movements and anxious expression, and yet he realized that Norman's condition had suddenly become very much worse. He bent over the child trying to calm him. He waited in silence to do Margaret's bidding. "Stand right where you are," she commanded hurriedly. "Take whatever I pass you and do exactly as I tell you. If we work fast enough we may make it." She felt of the child's little feet. They were cold, and pinched, and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE blue. The cold perspiration was pouring from his face. His eyes rolled back threateningly. His breathing became more difficult every moment. And the expression on his little drawn face became more pathetic. Faster, and still faster, Margaret worked, making every movement count. Philip stood silently by, gropingly, clumsily, obeying her every command. After what seemed like ages to both of them, Norman at last sighed heavily and gradually relaxed, breathing more naturally. Margaret lowered the pillows under his head, and in a short time he fell into a quiet sleep. He had passed through a serious crisis of his condition and he still lived. With head bowed upon his folded arms, Philip wept softly. Margaret held her feelings under a rigid control as she moved quickly and quietly about the room, putting things in readiness for the doctor's arrival. Streaks of rose-colored light shot up from the summit of the purple hills. A light stir in the lilac branches cast a shower of faded petals upon the dewy grass. There were subdued bird mutterings from the green foliage; while across the meadow a lark's clear note sounded cheerfully. Margaret extinguished the yellow kerosene flame and set the little lamp aside. She gazed at Philip long and tenderly. He looked worn and aged in the daylight. The influence of the entrancing, silver, fragrant night was gone. Philip Norton stood before her a plain, practical man, his hair streaked with silver, his hands toil-stained, his face tenderly marked with the symbols of sorrow and sacrifice. Had the courage, the vision, the fire of youth, faded out of his soul, just as the light had faded out of his eyes? Must he be LILAC LURE excused and condoned and bolstered up to meet life? Had he not learned to pay the eternal price of happiness? Margaret turned away. Suddenly her own life seemed gray and empty. The glory of the waiting years had turned to ashes. Raising his hand to his forehead as if to shade his unseeing eyes, Philip looked longingly into Margaret's face. "Your voice,' he said slowly, "sounds so familiar. It reminds me, somehow, of—of some one I knew years ago. I wish I could see your face." She turned to open the door to Dr. Bernard and a_ professional nurse. The others stood silent while the doctor made a careful diagnosis of the child's condition, which he found hopeful. When Arnold Simpson's car drew up before the rustic gate, Margaret bent over Norman's white bed, and spoke a few tender encouraging words to him, and bade a smiling good-morning to the others. Philip groped his way out to the hedge beside her and in halting words tried to express his appreciation for her night's vigil. "T shall not forget you," she said. "And I surely hope that your little son improves rapidly." As the car rolled down the winding country road, Philip listened to the dying rhythm of the motor, and wondered if he would ever see this woman's face. "Her voice," he mused softly, '"'reminds me of my old sweetheart, Margaret McLane. 'And come to think of it, I did not find out her name, after all." Margaret did not look back. She was conscious of Arnold Simpson's voice, again pleading his cause.. "It grieves me to pain you," she said, "but I have decided that hap- 213 piness cannot be bought with a price. I am going back to the hospital." ig was lilac time again. A cluster of the dainty, fragrant blossoms drooped from a tall vase, beside a little white hospital cot in the children's ward of the Dundee Hospital. Margaret McLane's countenance brightened as she looked into the sunny face of her brave little patient, Norman Norton. She touched the lilacs lightly with her finger-tips and then playfully nipped Norman's nose. "Someone has had a visitor since I was here," was her smiling banter, "and. I can plainly tell by the signs of good cheer drifting around this room, that said visitor must have been the Good Fairy." "No, it wasn't the Good Fairy," laughed Norman. "Guess again." "Let me think," mused Margaret. "I know, it was the Elf of Happiness." "No, no," laughed Norman. "It wasn't an elf or a fairy at all. And you have just one more guess." "Was it the Doctor?" "No. Course it wasn't the Doctor," disdainfully. "It was my own daddy. And guess what, Miss Mc- "The kittens have opened their eyes." "Yes, but it's better than that." "T give up," volunteered Margaret. "You'll have to tell me." "You couldn't ever guess," assured the child. "Daddy is going to take me home next Sunday." "Next Sunday!" ejaculated Mar- ° garet, really surprised. "Why, Norman, I think I shall go right along with you; for I know how dreadfully lonesome it will be here without you." "Would the doctors really let you go, Miss McLane?" "T'm afraid not, Norman. I was 214 only joking," she hurried to explain. "You see, some other little boy will be coming to this bed, and I should stay and take care of him. Don't you think so?" "Then Dll have my daddy bring you some flowers, too," volunteered the child, thoughtfully. "Thank you,' smiled Margaret. S° Philip Norton had come again while she was off duty. In all of his visits to Norman, she had never once seen Philip. And now, Norman was so much better that he was going home. It would be so lonely without him. Margaret was forced to admit that the child-had been an inspiration of joy to her for many days. He seemed to stand as a symbol of the past romance in her life. She had become so interested in his case, that to give him up now, would seem like letting her own little boy go away. Never before in all the years, had she so longed for a home, and the love and care of little children. Perhaps, after all,— and yet, it was so impossible to think of a home with Arnold Simpson. But that afternoon she went with him for a long ride along country lanes. It brought back memories and heartaches, and a great burning desire for the fulfillment of her life's most cherished dreams. Just as the sun had overturned his paint-pots in sheerless abandon, they turned into a quiet driveway that led up to a quaint cottage. It was hedged round about by a most exquisite setting of shrubbery and spring blossoms, with a background of rugged, picturesque mountains. Margaret was keenly alert to the exaggerated beauty of the surroundings, dipped as it were, in roses and burnished gold. Simpson stopped the car quietly in the driveway. He did not speak, but smiled in a satisfied way, as he noticed with what RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE admiration Margaret viewed the picture. When the rosy hues had turned to purple and the blue shadows had begun to creep up the sides of the mountain, he stepped out of the car and helped her to alight. "Let us go inside," he said. Upon discovering that the house was empty, Margaret turned to him in questioning surprise. "For you, my dear," was his smiling explanation. "I have built it for my wife. And now I want to know if it pleases you. Are you going to accept it?" "You mean?" "Our home, of course." It was a long moment before Margaret could control her voice. "It would be a poor marriage," she began, and then stopped short in confusion. She did not want to appear ungrateful. "Only say you will be my wife, let me assume the responsibility of the outcome," he hurried to cover her confusion. He took her from room to room displaying every little convenience and comfort and beauty of the place. As they rode home in the twilight Margaret was strangely silent. How could she ever be brave enough to refuse to accept that wonderful little home? It was the fulfillment of her best dreams—of a house. ON Monday morning she found little Norman Norton counting the days on his fingers until his daddy would come for him to take him home. In their conversation it developed that Daddy had moved into a new home. Norman would have a little room all by himself, with a case for his books and shelves for his toys, and a place for everything. He became so enthusiastic about the new place, that Margaret finally told him a story to help him to think of other things. LILAC The bright spring days slipped by so quickly that Margaret wanted to weep when, a week later, she opened her eyes and remembered that it was Sunday morning. Little Norman would be going home today. Her heart ached at the thought of losing him. And today was the day, when she was to tell Arnold Simpson whether she would go to live in the wonderful little house he had built for his wife. She could see it now, dipped in the sunshine and rainbow colors as it was that first night. Life was so strenuous and she was so tired. Sometimes she felt almost afraid of the time when she would be old and alone and without a home. Should she let some other woman thave that beautiful little house that had been built for her? And yet, was it for her? It was for Arnold Simpson's wife. Somewhere she had read that life is always fair to those who have kept faith with themselves through the years. Had she reached a place in life where she was not brave enough to meet the issues honestly? Her hands trembled almost as badly as little Norman's did, as she gave him his breakfast and helped him to dress in his best suit. Together they sorted out his books and magazines and gifts, and wrapped them in handy parcels. Together they decided who among the little patients would enjoy Norman's flowers most. He was all ready and sat waiting long before his father arrived. Whenever Margaret passed he would look up and smile coyly. Then she would stop and fix his tie, or button his jacket, or look to see that his hose were securely fastened. Repeatedly she warned him to be careful not to play too hard. And many times she invited him to come back and see them all. She was carefully LURE 215 arranging a bed in the ward when he called to her excitedly, "Oh, Miss McLane, come quickly. See, there comes my daddy and Aunt Lilly." Margaret stepped to the window -where Norman was sitting, and for one long moment she gazed steadily down at the approaching man and woman. Philip Norton's step was springing and his smiling face was animated with joy, as he courteously assisted the woman to ascend the steps leading up to the hospital. Margaret turned abruptly from the revealing picture. As she hurried from the room she playfully blew a kiss to Norman, and with an effort, called sweetly, "Good-bye, be good. And don't forget to come back and see me." 'As she pushed the hamper of soiled linen into the elevator and stepped in beside it, her heart was beating so rapidly she felt suffocated. She closed here eyes in a vain effort to shut out the picture that was disturbing her. She wanted to run away from herself. She wanted to cry. So Philip's vision had been restored. The same ambitious fire as of old was radiating from his face, and pulsing through his being. But there was a woman—a pretty, gentle woman. Now she understood about the new home and a hundred other things of which Norman had told her. Her heart was in a tumult. How foolish, oh, how stupidly foolish, she had been. Why must she have to lose the loveliest things that had ever come into her life, in order to recognize her own best desires? After all, her blindness had been worse than Philip's. Not until she knew that he was going out of her life forever, did she fully realize that he was the one blessing that would have made her life worth while. Whlthout him all the wealth 216 of the world would forever be dust and ashes under her feet. A short time afterward, as she hurried down the long hall, she was conscious of a man's thoughtful gaze following her. But she did not turn back. She was on the verge of tears. Besides, the other woman was at his side. WHEN Arnold Simpson came for her in the afternoon, there was no hesitancy or uncertainty in her manner, or her speech. The wonderful little house, in a halo of prismatic colors and burnished gold, had lost its fascination for her. How could an empty house atone for an empty heart? So she gave him her final refusal. And so it was that she sat alone in her own sweet scented porch, at the dusk of twilight. She was wondering where she would gather courage to go on with life. The dull pain tugging at her heart, was fraying her nerves to ragged edges. Where could she turn for an incentive to give her renewed strength and hope? Would her life like a lone skiff drifting aimlessly out to sea, be buffeted by wind and wave, and eventually tossed on the sandy shore with the bleached driftwood? It was one o'clock in the morning, but all unconscious of the hour, she still sat there alone in the darkness. Suddenly she was acutely aware of the presence of a man cautiously approaching the house. He came quietly up the walk and opened the screen door softly. Then stepping inside, he flashed a searching light across the house door. Margaret turned cold with fear but she did not move or speak. She could not see his face from where she sat, but she was assured of his evil intent. After fumbling in his inside pocket for a moment, the suspicious character RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE again flashed on the light and seemed to be comparing some pocket notes with the house number. Apparently satisfied, he put the light in his pocket and turned to leave. Evidently he had not seen Margaret. She was uttering a little silent prayer of gratitude for her deliverance, when suddenly a long drawn-out yowl of pain echoed through the porch. There was a clatter of splintering crockery mingled with the thud of a heavy falling body. Rushing to the house door, Margaret turned on the porch light. There in the corner crouched Midnight, the house cat, with fur bristling and eyes flashing. A well dressed man was awkwardly pulling himself together as he arose from the wreckage of the crushed oleander. For a moment Margaret stood in dignified silence. The stranger pushed a mass of dark graying hair back from his brow, and then his eyes opened wide in glad surprise. "Margaret," he whispered, ''Margaret. I've been searching for you ever since I heard your voice a year ago — the night you saved little Norman's life.' He stood waiting for her to answer him. When she could control her voice she asked, '""Why should you want to find me?" "Wihy?" his eyes searched her white face for a moment. Then coming very close to her he spoke in a very low gentle tone. '"Margaret, I realize that this whole situation is ludicrous. It demands an explanation, an apology, to say the least. However, that can come later. Right now, I have something very different to say. Now that I have found you after so long a search, I want to tell you that I love you, just as I loved you twelve years ago. I want you. I need you. My whole LILAC LURE 217 "Margaret, I've been searching for you ever since I heard your voice a year ago." life shall be shaped to meet your happiness. Can you ever love me enough to become my wife?" "I—I thought," stammered Margaret, "that there was another woman." "No, Margaret, there can never be any other woman than you." "But the woman who came to the hospital with you?" "Was my mother's sister," he explained. "Tell me, Margaret, you will come to me." "Yes, Philip," she whispered, smiling through the tears that were shining in her happy eyes.