[Mother — Three Pictures by Stephen L Richards]

Mother—Three Pictures President Stephen L Richards Of the First Presidency HILE contemplating Mothers Day and motherhood, I happened to notice in the public.
Press the picture of a woman—a refugee from one of the Korean fields of battle. She was leading a small child by the hand, nursing an infant, and carrying a huge load (perhaps all her worldly possessions) on her head. One could well imagine that her South Korean husband was either fighting in the war or dead, that all family ties had been disrupted, and her kindred lost to her in the great confusion. She was trudging wearily and painfully on to save life, while the armies which had encompassed her country were engaged in the terrible, methodical business of taking life. It is not likely that anyone in America in the shelter and security of even our poorest homes could realize and visualize the desperate plight of this desperate woman. No matter how weary and discouraged she was, she could not stop. Had she been alone she might have taken a chance on surrender, but she could not take that chance, she was a mother. She was entrusted with life more precious than her own. She had to preserve it.
There is a delightful picture of mother which comes to us with the annual observance of her day. 'There she sits in a cozy room in a cozy rocker, hair gray or graying, a soft and tender light in lovely eyes, placidly knitting, sewing, or reading, a perfect picture of serenity and mature loveliness. It is not difficult to imagine the thinking and the happiness of this dear lady. She has given her life to her children, and they have given their love and devotion back to her. She rejoices in their successes even more than in her own—their happiness is her happiness, their welfare, her deepest concern.
What a pity it is that this portrayal does not characterize motherhood throughout the world.
There is yet another picture of motherhood which I hesitate to draw, perhaps it is indelicate to include it within a Mother's Day tribute. I justify its inclusion on the ground that it may serve to enhance appreciation for the nobility of character which so universally commands our esteem and affection on this occasion. 'This other picture is one of neglect and failure to accept the responsibilities incident to this most vital of all human relationships. It arises, usually, out of unwanted and unwelcome children, or desertion of home and children for other loves and ambitions, or for unmitigated frivolity. It is an unnatural, sorry picture. The resulting consequences are tragic, too extensive in all their ramifications even to be mentioned here. But the picture is necessary to point up the precise things to which we give honor and reverence on Mother's Day. It is by no means the biology alone of this universal institution which commands respect, although there is always a measure of deferPage 295 296 ence and regard for one who brings children into the world, irrespective of the fidelities involved.
This is perhaps as it should be, but the fervent tributes we offer to motherhood are chiefly directed, whether consciously or not, to the qualities of mind and heart and soul which normally, naturally, and _ rightly characterize this sacred relationship. It is a sacred relationship if anything ordained of God is sacred. And I think it safe to say, generally speaking, that those who live to the highest ideals of this institution are prompted and sustained by religious considerations. I know of no loftier concepts of home and family and motherhood than those coming from the restored gospel of our Lord set forth in the revelations to the latter-day Prophet, Joseph Smith. In these interpretations, the sphere of mother is exalted beyond compare. She is entrusted with the mortal life of the spirit-child of God, our eternal and universal parent. She nurtures the prenatal life in self-sacrifice, and she brings that life into the world with an instinct for its protection and defense at once tender and combative. God placed that instinct in her for the presetvation of the life he gave.
Woman blessed with this lofty understanding recognizes in her call to motherhood an obligation higher and even more demanding than the physical protection of her offspring. She knows that it is her duty to do all that lies within her power to help the child pass through mortality as a loyal and devoted son or daughter of God that the child may be returned to  the eternal parent, acceptable to him, the Judge of life.
Such a mother knows that in the mortal probation there will be innumerable vicissitudes of fortune, condition, and environment; she knows that she cannot be with her child through all of these, but she has faith that if she can bless the life entrusted to her care, especially in its early stages, with knowledge of the fatherhood of God and his providence in all things and with faith, humility, courage, fortitude, and resolution always to uphold the right, she will have performed her mission of motherhood. In such a concept, duty comes first.
Duty is always rigorous and exacting. It does not tolerate neglect, and it will not permit itself to be subordinated to pleasure and levity. It entails seeming sacrifice, but sacrifice is a word of many defnitions and constructions. If we mean by it foregoing many of the quests and liberties for personal pleasure outside family and home, then there are many sacrifices. If we include sleepless nights, physical exhaustion, and incessant toil, there is more sacrifice. But if our vision » is raised, and we look ahead to the maturity and nobility of lives whom the mother has nurtured and developed, then we interpret all of the self-denial, all of the patient labor and exertion as opportunity for the fulfillment of the greatest mission that can ever come to woman— motherhood, which brings into the world and guides back to God the eternal souls of men.
What such an exalted concept of motherhood, if universally understood and accepted, would do for MOTHER—THREE PICTURES the homes of men and, through them, for the nations of the world, no one can estimate. It makes a home the mission of a lifetime; it deters divorce; it provides its own rewards; it makes for the safest sanctuary of all the virtues; and, in its higher aspects, it serves to create the prototype of the heavenly status—the eternal home which awaits the faithful of all of God's children.
Perhaps we can add something, and we should certainly try, to the joy and happiness of mothers in the observance of the day set apart in their honor. Our tributes may do something to stir some sense of pride and responsibility in neglected homes. If it should bring about even a little more tender solicitude for starving children, starving for affection, starving for the warmth and security of a home, it would be worthwhile. But to the mothers who are as priestesses in the temple of the home, who have accepted the obligations and the opportunities of their missions, who have 297 brought nobility of character and divinity of purpose to their children and are in process of doing so, our encomiums can add but little. 'The satisfactions they experience transcend all our words of praise and tribute. So it is that the highest tribute of love and respect we can pay to mother—the one most acceptable to her—is the tribute of a good life, a life compatible with her own ideals, which will give her assurance of blessed reunion with her loved ones in the life to come. Mother's Day is, therefore, a time of consecration and devotion to the ideals of home and family.
Every flower which is presented, every verse that is written, every song that is sung, may be, if we will it so, not only a token of love to those who have begotten and loved us, but also an enduring dedication of our lives to the greatest and most permanent of all institutions of society —home and family and mother. | o< >< Jn a