[Woman's Sphere by Ramona W. Cannon]

Woman's Sphere Ramona W.
Cannon velop her astonishing vocal power until she was thirty-seven. Her voice, becoming thus powerful, lost none of its heart-stirring beauty. She just recently announced her retirement from opera. ANNA PRINCE REDD (Mts. James Monroe Redd), wellknown and gifted Latter-day Saint author of two Relief Society Magazine serials (""I'omorrow's Cup" and "Where Trails Run Out,'") and many poems, passed away March 17, 1951. She has particularly enriched the literary heritage of her people with her stories and poems of the San Juan country of Southeastern Utah. T' was interesting to note the change of sentiment in the words of the old Hebrew prayer, "Blessed art thou, O Lord, who hast not made me a woman," and the recent statement of Rabbi Maurice Eisendrath, "There is nothing in the practice and principles of liberal Judaism which precludes the possibility of a woman serving as a rabbi." The rabbi, president of the union of American - Hebrew Congregations (Reform) was approving the appointment of the widow of Rabbi William Ackerman to act as rabbi in her husband's place, at least for the present. She is the first woman in America to hold rabbinical authority. Page: CD EDITORIAL a, 
VOL. 
The Safe Harbor of Home This is the true nature of home—it is the place of Peace; the shelter, not only from all injury, but from all terror, doubt, and division. —John Ruskin O many of us has come the poignant experience of returning to our childhood home, after long years of absence. And we have wondered, seeing again the familiar place, the guarding trees, the stone walk—we have wondered what has made this spot the most precious of all the earth. Seeing the walls and the windows, the long-loved doors, we have sought to comprehend the ineffable and elusive spirit of home. It is, as the poet Oliver Wendell Holmes so well expressed the thought, "Where we love is home, home that our feet may leave, but not our hearts."" And so, in returning home, we come to that place which has never been forgotten; we return to that bright memory which has held us firm and has directed our journeys in far places. Fven as our footsteps echo on the walk, we note the tall trees that father planted, the fence he built with the glad ring of his hammer pounding the nails. We see the oval space in the lawn where mother planted tall blue delphiniums, bordered with a ribbon of yellow pansies. And if our blessings have been great, we may see the place where. Grandfather planted the vegetable garden, and that small fragrant plot where grandmother tended the green herbs. 
One opens the door at the threshold of home with a pause that is full of memories—and they are deep and moving memories because they have shaped our lives, and they will be with us forever. One opens the door quietly, remembering when mother was there, how beautiful it was, warm with love and welcoming. How many times have we returned in the projection of thoughts and longings to this place, for there will never. Come to us an experience more heartfelt and more lasting than returning home to mother, for therewith we return to peace, and understanding, and quiet. Remember how it was with this room, when father came home at night—the swift clatter of children's | feet, shrill voices from the stairs, "Daddy. Daddy " and the race to reach him first. Remembering how strong and how tender father was, it is no wonder that his influence has gone with us wherever we have been since the time of childhood, that his strength has made us strong, and his tenderness has given us compassion for others. How truly are we the glad inheritors of those qualities of which our father seldom spoke, but which he exemplified in his own life. How truly are we blessed for this—love and tenderness are never lost. 'They are the everlasting heritage.