BEAUTY IS MORE THAN SKIN DEEP 743 > oes self-assurance and naturalness," "intellectual curiosity, integrity, and stability of character." "Beauty comes from within." "It is within the potentialities of almost any girl." Or look to some authorities of the past. Said Emerson: "Beauty is the soundness of the bones... A peach-ripe complexion; health of constitution that makes the sparkle and power of the eyes." "... Character gives splendor to youth." Sir James Barrie says of charm (the sister of beauty): "If you have it you don't need anything else, and if you don't have it, it doesn't much matter what else you have." Beauty is largely a matter of the thoughts we think, the deeds we do, the food we eat, the interest we show in others. It is the sum of sincerity, enthusiasm, and unselfishness. It is the product of busy days and nights untroubled by guilty regrets. Beauty is obedience to the laws of good and wise and wonderful living of the laws of health and happiness. To these add a lively search for eternal truth — for the good things here — for the good things hereafter —and you will surely find beauty in living, and be beautiful yourself. In short, beauty is a reflection of what you are inside yourself. So, if you would be beautiful— BE HONEST WITH YOURSELF Sar Arve Shese Ways Alice Morrey Bailey Christmas comes across the sleeping hill As gently as the new snow drifts tonight, But in the valley song and laughter spill Beneath the city's canopy of light. The rainbow streets with holly-green are strung And costly goods give shoppers wistful pause. With lighted trees and stockings limply hung, — Star-eyed children wait for Santa Claus. These alien ways are seeming paradox, And far are they from soft Judean plains Where gentle shepherds watched their bedded flocks Until the heavens burst with angel strains. Yet gifts and ways of giving still are wide; Through deserts of the heart the Magi ride. Recipes Sromthe dlawau Ti lission Submitted by Maurine M. Haycock CuIcKEN Witnu Lone RIcE 3 Ib. Chicken 2 or 3 bundles long rice* butter or cooking oil salt and pepper 1 clove garlic shoyu (soy sauce) to taste 1 piece ginger Ajinomoto (Accent) Cut chicken in serving pieces. Fry in butter or cooking oil with garlic and ginger until golden brown. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Boil neck and part of chicken about forty-five minutes separately, adding water so as to have at least two quarts of stock. Cover remaining chicken with water and cook till tender. Cut up long rice which has been soaked in water for forty minutes and cook for twenty minutes in stock. Combine with chicken, add shoyu (soy sauce) and Ajinomoto (Accent). May be served plain or with rice or poi. *Long rice is a product resembling spaghetti in shape, but made of cooked rice. It may be purchased in nearly all stores which carry Oriental foods. SUKIYAKE 2 Ibs. Chicken, cut from bones 2 bunches green onions 6 tbsp. Shoyu (soy sauce) 1 tsp. Ajinomoto (Accent) 6 tbsp. Sugar salt to taste 1 can Japanese bamboo shoots chicken fat 1 can mushrooms Cut chicken in small pieces. Slice bamboo shoots and mushrooms. Cut green onions (including tops) into one-inch pieces. Heat the pan, put in some small pieces of chicken fat. When melted add enough chicken to half fill the pan. Add sugar and shoyu (soy sauce) and mix well with chicken. When it begins to boil, push to sides of pan, add some of the mushrooms, bamboo shoots, and onions. Cook 10 minutes. More chicken, vegetables, sugar, and shoyu (soy sauce) should be added from time to time. Do not allow the sukiyake to brown. If it begins to dry out, add a little water, additional sugar, and shoyu (soy sauce). Sukiyake is called "Hekka" in Hawaii. It is served with rice, a green salad, and pickled vegetables. Makes six servings. 'TERUYAKI Barbecued Steak 2 Ibs. Round steak % inch thick 1 clove garlic (either mash 1 c. Shoyu (soy sauce) or chop very fine) Y% tsp. Ajinomoto (Accent) 1 tbsp. Finely chopped ginger root Soak steak in seasoning mixture for about 1 hour or longer, if desired. It may be cooked over hot charcoal or broiled. Haupia Coconut Pudding ac. Fresh milk 5 tbsp. Sugar 3.¢. Coconut milk 2 or 3 drops vanilla extract or 5 tbsp. Cornstarch 1 drop lemon extract 3 or 4 large coconuts pinch of salt Grate three or four large coconuts, which will make about three cups coconut milk. Moisten grated coconuts and allow to stand for twenty minutes. Squeeze out liquid Page 744 RECIPES FROM THE HAWAII MISSION 745 through a cheesecloth. Place fresh milk and coconut milk in double boiler and, when warm, add the cornstarch and sugar which has been mixed with a little of the coconut milk, and then the salt and lemon extract. This may be served either in individual dishes, or cut in squares and eaten by hand. PINEAPPLE TAPIOCA WHIP 1% c. Pineapple juice 2 egg yolks. 2 tbsp. Minute tapioca % Cc. Whipping cream " tsp. Vanilla extract 3 tbsp. Sugar Bring pineapple juice to a boil, add tapioca, and cook slowly until clear, then mix sugar with eggs. Combine the two mixtures and cook for a few minutes. Cool and add vanilla, stirring it once in awhile. When cool, fold in the whipped cream and pour into glasses. Chill before serving. Coconut MACAROONS Y% c. Sifted flour 1 egg white % c. Sugar 1% c. Grated fresh coconut % c. Light corn syrup Mix flour and sugar and stir in syrup gradually so the mixture will not form lumps. Beat egg white until stiff and fold in coconut. Add the sugar and flour mixture. Shape into small balls, place on slightly buttered baking sheet, and flatten a little with a knife. Bake in 400° oven for ten minutes, and, if not browned, place under broiler heat for a minute or two. PANIOLA Hawaiian Cowboy Stew 2 Ibs. Beef, cut into 24 tbsp. Salt 1% inch cubes " tsp. Pepper shoyu (soy sauce) enough 1 tsp. Brown sugar to cover cubes 6 carrots 2 tbsp. Bacon fat 4 potatoes 4 c. Boiling water 1% C. Cut green beans 1 tsp. Worcestershire sauce 6 small white onions 1 tsp. Garlic powder 2 tbsp. Flour "% ¢. Chopped onion 4 tbsp. Cold water Soak beef in shoyu (soy sauce). Brown well in bacon fat, then add water, Worcestershire sauce, garlic powder, chopped onion, salt, pepper, and brown sugar, and let simmer for one and one half hours, stirrimg occasionally. Cut carrots into one-inch pieces and potatoes into one-inch cubes and add vegetables to meat and cook until done. Dissolve flour in water and add to stew and cook until gravy is thickened. Pork Cuorp Suey 1 c. Canned bean sprouts 2 ae sliced mushrooms lc. Chopped cooked pork 1 ¢. Chicken broth 1 c. Chopped celery 1 tsp. Cornstarch % c. Green pepper strips 2 tbsp. Cold water % c. Chopped onion 2 tbsp. Shoyu (soy sauce) Saute celery, onion, mushrooms, and pork in butter for three minutes. Add pepper, bean sprouts, cornstarch mixed in water, and chicken broth. Bring mixture to boiling point and simmer for four minutes. (French style or thinly cut string beans or thin strips of carrots may also be added, if desired.) Serve with fluffy white rice.