Work ITleeting— Food Preparation and Service (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 5—Cheese Rhea H. Gardner For Tuesday, February 12, 1957 HEESE is one of the oldest foods known to humanity, so incredibly old that its origins are shrouded in legend, so universal that it appears wherever man has grazed animals and used their milk. The Greeks ate and appreciated cheese. 'The diet of athletes training for the Olympics was largely cheese. The Romans ate large quantities of cheese and brought it to England, where some of the world's best varieties of cheese, Cheddar and Stilton, are still made. Monks made Roquefort cheese as early as AD. 1070. Its discovery is another accident. A shepherd had left his lunch of bread and cheese in the famous Roquefort caves. When he came back, weeks later, he found that the bread had molded and that the cheese looked different. However, the cheese had a delicious taste, and the shepherd told the monks about it. 'The popular blue or Roquefort cheese we now have is the result. Camembert became famous when Napoleon discovered it in an obscure country in Normandy. He is said to have been so pleased that he kissed the hand of Madame Horel, the maker. Camembert became the most famous of France's reputed 450 cheeses. Italian cheeses, too, are very ancient. Parmesan cheese was a main part of the diet of many in the fourteenth century. The Swiss have made cheese since the sixteenth century. 'There were sections of the country where, at the birth of a child, a wheel of Swiss cheese was made and put away marked with the child's name. For the ceremonial occasions of his life, such as christening and marriage, slices of his own cheese were cut and served, and, at his death, the mourners consumed the last pieces in his memory. When the pilgrims sailed on the Mayflower, cheese was one of the foods they took along. Until 1850, all the cheese in America was made on the farms. Most of it was cottage cheese, though some farmers also made Cheddar in the way they had made it in their native England. 'The first cheese factory was started in Oneida County, New York, in 1851. Until the early nineteen hundreds, the manufacturers of cheese traveled westward, especially to Wisconsin, where surroundings for cheese-making were nearly perfect. 'Today, cheese is made in almost every state of the Union. The world's largest LESSON DEPARTMENT Swiss cheese factory is located in beautiful Cache Valley in northern Utah. But Wisconsin is still the most important cheese-making state, making about fifty per cent of all American-made cheese. Like the milk it is made from, cheese is a nearly perfect food. In a pound of American Cheddar cheese you get the equivalent of the milk fat contained in four quarts of milk and the protein in two and four-fifths quarts of milk. 'The butterfat in cheese is a good source of vitamin A. Cheese contains other necessary vitamins, too, but to a lesser extent. It is an excellent food for children and for adults. The old story that cheese is hard to digest has been disproved by tests made over the years by the United States Department of Agriculture and a large number of scientific institutions. It has been proved that cheese is ninety to ninety-nine per cent digestible. Cheese is an economical food compared to the nourishment and eating pleasure it gives. Cheese is also one of our most versatile foods, not only fitting into the main course of breakfast and every course of luncheon or dinner, but fitting every budget. It is an excellent item for freezing. Always cook a food containing cheese at a low temperature, if it has to cook for any length of time. Higher temperatures may be used if the cooking time is very short. Overcooking gives cheese a bad texture and may decrease the ease of digestion. When cheese is cut or shredded into fine bits and mixed 769 with other foods, there is less danger of overcooking it. Well - ripened Cheddar blends more readily than that which is underripened, and cheese that has a high fat content melts better than others. If cheese is to be served as such, remove it from the refrigerator an hour or more before it is to be served, so its full goodness will be released. Cheese, like some people, is a good mixer. When mixed with bland foods, such as macaroni, it adds flavor and zest to the dish. Sharp or strong-flavored cheese served with fruit is an excellent combination for dessert, or with the addition of a roll or slice of toast, as a main luncheon dish. Frozen fruit salad, with cheese as an accompaniment, is delightful. Melted cheese in white sauce is delicious when combined with vegetables, toast, or crackers. Practically all soups are very much improved if they are topped with plenty of grated cheese. Cream soups, especially, are improved when a cheese topping is added. Cheese that is well aged and sharp is best for this. A cheese tray is a very popular last course for dinner in many European countries, or for a buffet luncheon, supper, or a midnight snack in America. Have a variety of cheeses for a variety of tastes. These are but a few suggestions for the use of cheese. If you are one who has limited the use of cheese to sandwiches and macaroni and cheese, you have a great thrill waiting you as you expand the use of this near-perfect food. Note "Recipes for Cheese Dishes," by Rhea H. Gardner, page 754, in this issue of the Magazine.