[Vol8 | May 1921 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Article | Title: What Does the Church Owe Me]

WHAT DOES THE CHURCH OWE. ME? Women and men sometimes face situations, have trials, or are called on or are permitted to make sacrifices which seem to them, and to those who love them, to be unjust, humiliating and in the nature of ingratitude towards those who so suffer. These people ask how it is that brother or sister so-and-so is poor, or sick, or slighted by providence in this Church. Have not these unfortunates paid tithing faithfully, been good to the poor, sustained the Priesthood loyally, and generally kept the commandments? Then why should such faithful ones be forgotten, poor or sick? The answer to that vital question reaches in a way into the foundation of salvation, and I will not answer it here. Men. Are placed in high and honorable positions, and others are neglected or are even asked to resign. They who are neglected and their friends, sometimes suffer cruelly over such slights. And up springs the suggestion: 'Well, the Church owes me or you something. Look at the missions I have filled, the sermons I have preached, the long years of sacrifice and toil which I have given 310. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE loyally to the service of my people! Now see?this cruel humiliation is my only reward!' That is the human nature speaking. This weak vision, this selfish nature, this potent flesh cries out loudly in defense of what we hold to be our rights and privileges. How human we all are. How we suffer under humiliation or at the lash which cuts into our self-respect?or selfesteem?and which abases us in the eyes of our friends and in our own estimation. We are so human! But wait! What do I owe the Church? Turn the shield around. Let us honestly study the problem from another angle: What has the Church done for me? Let every man and woman ask these questions: "What have learned; how far along the upward road of progress have I come, through my privileges and opportunities for service in the Master's cause? Where would I be today if I had been wholly selfish, and devoted only to money and success?' Friends, love, peace, salvation?these are the glorious rewards which come from serving God; they are ours no matter how poor, how sick, or how humiliated we may be. Can we pay the price paid by the Savior? Be sure, O my heart, that no Saint would willingly injure you or see you suffer. We are all so bound up in one another's welfare and suffering that what hurts one hurts us all. After all, there is still another question which follows this. What is the best thing for the Church? Not what I may want or need, not how I may be advanced or forgotten, but what will be the best for the interests of the Church, as a whole or any of its interests? That. Question I must ask; and if its answer involves suffering, sickness, or even dependency for me and mine, that I must accept royally, bravely and without complaint. Nay more; if I know that some one has defrauded or injured me, if I am a Saint, I must pray for my temporary enemy, that his actions, thoughtless perhaps or even malicious, may be amply forgiven and that his soul. May not be corroded with his mistake. We are told to pray for those who despitefully use us. And especially is this true in this Church; for I must believe that no one, not one single man or woman, would wilfully injure or hurt me or you. Love, forgiveness to one another, courage to face each trial,?these are the corner stones, of Church service. There are those in the world who hate us but we must love one another. Only so can our long years of toil and struggle reach full reward and we be crowned with life everlasting.