the General Board, Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth represented the conditions of the Relief Society in Sevier Stake as being both prosperous and active. War gardens have been numerous and profitable. Conservation of supplies, by individuals, by wards and by stake officers, has been active and prolonged. Particularly interesting was the work of the Home Economics department in this excellent stake Relief Society. A noticeable feature here was the report of twenty-five orphan children supported by the Relief Societies of the Sevier stake. The Monroe South Ward Relief Society certainly made a record during the past year through the giving of bazaars, parties, the serving of dinners, the making and selling of quilts, through' regular donations and the quaint old custom of saving Sunday eggs; these women raised and donated $1,282.52 to seat the new ward church. They paid $86.91 to carpet the aisles of the church. Then they paid $148.25 to freshen and remodel their own Society hall with new paint inside and out, new chairs and benches, and cement walks around the building. The other charity work was not neglected. The Penny Fund received its full quota, and they have purchased a Liberty Bond. Also they have dried apples and bottled thousands of quarts of fruits and vegetables. Good work. Tooele Stake. The scattered condition of this stake makes it difficult for unified work to be carried forward. The foreign element in Garfield and around the smelters is more or less of a drawback to the work of the sisters, yet the usual activities are carried on, and the Relief Society is the most popular organization in the stake. Beaver Stake. Especially attractive to the Beaver stake has been the gleaning and storing of wheat during the past season. Most of the wheat has been stored in the Richfield elevator. The Home Economics club of Beaver City rendered it impractical for home science work to be carried on in the past season in our Society, more's and devoted. the pity. The women of th