[Vol5 | February 1918 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Guide | Title: Lesson II - Work and Business]
GUIDE  LESSONS.  HI 
always  remember  that  you  were  not  a  virgin,  and  this  will  he  the  cause 
of  great  aJfliction  and  distress;  you  will  never  be  at  peace,   for  your 
liusband    will    always    be    suspicious    of    you.      O,    my    dearly    beloved 
daughter,  if  you  shall  live  upon  the  earth,  see  that  not  more  than  one 
man  approaches  you;  and  observe  what  I  now  shall  tell  you,  as  a  striqt 
command.     When  it  shall  please  God  that  you  receive  a  husband,  and 
you  are  placed  under  his  authority,  be  fre,e  from  arrogance,  see  that 
you  do  not  neglect  him,  nor  allow  your  heart  to  be  in  opposition  to 
him.     Be  not  disrespectful  to  him.     Beware,  that,  in  no  time  or  place, 
you  commit  the  treason  against  him,   called  adultery.     See  that  you 
give    no    favor    to    another;    since    this,    my    dear    and    much    beloved 
daughter,  is  to  fall  into  a  pit  without  bottom,  from  which   there  will 
be  novescape.     According  to  the  custom  of  the  world,  if  it  shall  be 
known,  for  this  crime  they  will  kill  you,  they  will  throw  you  into  the 
street,   for   an    example   to   all   the   people,   where   your   head   will   be 
crushed   and   dragged   upon    the    ground.      Of   these    says    a   proverb: 
"You  will  be  stoned  and  dragged  upon  the  earth,  and  others  will  take 
warning  at   your   death."     From   this   will   arise   a   stain   and   dishonor 
upon    our    ancestors,    the    nobles    and    senators    from    whom    we    are 
descended.     You  will  tarnish  their  illustrious  fame,  and  their   glcfry, 
liy  the   tilthiness   and  impurity   of  your   sin.      You   will,   likewise,   lose 
your  reputation,  your  nobilit)',  and  hnor  of  birth;   your  name  will  be 
forgotten  and  abhorred.     Of  you  it  will  be  said,  that  you  were  buried 
in  the  dust  of  your  sins.     And  remember,  my  daughter,  that,  though 
no  man  shall  see  you,  nor  your  husband  ever  know  what  happens,  God, 
who  is  in  every  place,  sees  you,  will  be  angry  with  you,  and  will  also 
excite  the  indignation  of  the  people  against  you,  and  will  be  avenged 
upon  you  as  he  shall  see  fit.     By  his  command,  you  shall  either  be 
maimed,  or  struck  blind,  or  your  body  will  wither,  or  you  will  come  to 
extreme  poverty,  for  daring  to  injure  your  husband.     Or,  perhaps,  he 
will  give  you  to  death,  and  put  you  under  his  feet,  sending  you  to  the 
place   of  torment.     Our   Lord   is  compassionate;   but,   if  you   commit 
treason  against  your  husband,  God,  who  is  in  every  place,  shall  take 
x-engeance  on  your  sin,  and  will  permit  you  to  have  neither  content- 
ment, nor  repose,  nor  a  peaceful  life;  and  he  will  excite  your  husband 
to  be  always  unkind  towards  you,  and  always  to  speak  to  you  with 
anger.     My  dear  daughter,  whom  I  tenderly  love,  see  that  you  live  m 
the   world  of  peace,   tranquility,   and   contentment,   all  the   days   that 
vou  shall  live.     See  that  you  disgrace  not  yourself,  that  you  stain  not 
your  honor,  nor  pollute  the  luster  and  fame  of  your  ancestors.     See 
that  you  honor  me  and  your  father,  and  reflect  glory  on  us  by  your 
good  life.     May  God  prosper  ypu,  my  first-born,  and  may  you  come  to 
God,   who   is   in    every  place.— /"o/.   ///  Prescott's   -Conquest   of  Mexico 
and  Peru:'' 
HOUSEKEEPERS'  CONFERENCE. 
Beginning  January  21-29  there  will  be  held  in  the  Agricul- 
tural College  at  Logan  a  conference  of  housekeepers  and  home 
workers.  The  chairmen  of  our  branch,  of  the  Home  Science  De- 
partments will  find  an  especial  course  on  Home  Management  and 
Bacteriology,  planned  to  meet  our  general  and  particular  needs. 
All  subjects  treated  in  our  Correspondence  Course  will  be  given. 
You  are  all  invited  to  attend.

112  RRLinr  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE. 
LESSON  II. 
Work  and  Business. 
Second  Week  in  March. 
LESSON  III. 
Genealogy  and  Literature. 
Third  Week  in  March. 
JAPHETM,  HIS  DESCENDANTS  AND  TRIBES.* 
When  the  .sons  of  Noah,  with  their  .descendants  spread  abroa-d 
after  the  Flood,  the  sons  of  Japheth  went  into  the  Mediterranean 
coasts,  into  Asia  Minor  to  "the  isles  of  the  Gentiles,"  also  across 
Armenia,  into  the  Tii^ris  and  Euphrates  valleys  over  Media  and 
Persia,  and  eastward  as  far  as  India,  eml)racing  probably  the  peo- 
ples who  spoke  what  is  now  called  the  great  Indo-European 
languages.  Japheth  means  "enlarged."  In  Greek  mythology  the 
Titan  Japetus  is  the  progenitor  of  the  human  race.  Ion,  his  son, 
in  the  Hebrew  form,  is  Javan.  Tarshish,  son  of  Javan,  is  father 
of  southern  Spain  Madai  of  the  Medes,  and  Gomer,  the  Teutons. 
Some  of  our  Latterday  Saints  authorities  claim  Semitic  descent 
for  the  Teutons.  It  is  quite  certain  that  the  seed  of  Israel  is  scat- 
tered through  the  Teuton  peoples.  However,  we  give  the  line 
here  as  it  is  given  in  modern  histories. 
The  following  quotations  are  extracts  taken  from  the  first 
sixty  pages  of  Lenormant  and  Chevallier's  Ancient  History  of 
the  East^,Wo\.ll: 
"The  ancestors  of  the  Japhetic  race  believed  that  everything 
proceeded  from  one  celestial  being — the  being  par  excellence — 
God.  Deva,tht  Vevc  of  the  Greeks,  the  Dens  of  the  Latins.  This 
divine  being  was  considered  'The  Living  One.' 
"But  this  belief  in  the  divine  unity,  a  relic  of  the  primitive 
faith  of  mankind  in  the  original  revelation,  was,  among  the  an- 
cient Japhetic  races,  as  among  all  the  nations  of  antiquity  who  had 
not  a  divine  revelation  for  the  preservation  of  the  truth,  disfigured 
by  the  introduction  of  pantheism,  and  by  the  personification  of  the 
attributes  of  the  Supreme  Being  as  so  many  separate  gods, 
emanations  from  his  substance.  God  the  Creator  was  mistaken 
for  the  universe  he  had  created ;  his  unity  was  .divided  into  a 
number  of  personages  also  believed  to  be  divine.  *  *  *  But 
the  existence  of  these  personifications,  each  invested  with  an  in- 
dividuality, was  a  deplorable  fall  from  the  original  conception, 
and  completely  hid  it  from  view  in  the  popular  worship,  directly 
leading  to  the  depths  of  polytheism  and  idolatry." 
The  following  extract  is  descriptive  of  the  expansion  of  the 
familv  into  a  nation  or  kingdom  among  primitive  Japhetic  peoples :