[Vol5 | February 1918 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: Patriotic Department]
PATRIOTIC  DEPARTMENT.  95 
yourself  hereafter.  The  government  is  going  to  send  out  men  to 
help  yoil.  It  will  be  up  to  you  to  hunt  up  these  men,  who  will  be 
■  sent  into  every  county  seat  town,  and  some  other  towns  besides,  to 
meet  the  people.  Postmasters  will  be  able  to  tell  you  when  the 
government's  income  tax  man  will  be  around,  and  where  to  find 
him.  He  will  answer  your  questions,  sw^ear  you  to  the  return,  take 
your  money,  and  remove  the  wrinkles  from  your  brow.  Returns 
of  income  for  1917  must  be  made  between  januarv  1  and  March 
1,  1918. 
"Next  year,  when  every  married  person  living  with  wife  or 
husband  and  having  a  net  income  of  $2,000,  and  every  unmarried 
person  not  the  head  of  a  family  and  having  a  net  income  of  $1,000 
for  the  year  1917.  must  make  return  of  income  on  the  form 
prescribed,  there  will  be  hundreds  in  every  community  seeking 
light  on  the  law,  and  help  in  executing  their  returns.  IMy  own 
district  will  be  divided  into  districts,  with  the  county  as  the 
unit,  and  a  government  officer  informed  on  the  income  tax  as- 
signed to  each  district.  He  will  spend  hardly  less  than  a  week 
in  each  county,  and  in  some  counties  a  longer  time,  very  likely  in 
the  courthouse  at  the  county  seat  town.  My  office  wall  in  due 
time  advise  postmasters  and  send  out  notices  to  the  newspapers 
stating  when  the  officer  will  be  in  each  county. 
"It  may  be  stated  as  a  matter  of  general  information  that  'net 
income'  is  the  remainder  after  subtracting  expenses  from  gross 
income.  Personal,  family  or  living  expense  is  not  expense  in  the 
meaning  of  the  law.  the  exemption  being  allowed  to  cover  such  ex- 
pense. 
"Practically  every  farmer,  merchant,  tradesman,  professional 
man  and  salary  worker  and  a  great  many  wage  workers  will  be 
required  to  make  return  and  pay  tax. 
"The  law  makes  it  the  duty  of  the  taxpayer  to  seek  out  the 
collector.  Many  people  assume  that  if  an  income  tax  form  is  not 
sent,  or  a  government  officer  does  not  call,  they  are  relieved  from 
making  report.  This  is  decidedly  in  error.  It  is  the  other  way 
round.  The  taxpayer  has  to  go  to  the  government  and  if  he 
doesn't  within  the  time  prescribed,  he  is  a  violator  of  the  law, 
and  the  government  will  go  to  him  with  penalties."