[Woman's Sphere by Ramona W. Cannon]

Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon ILPHA DIADAMA FULLER EARL, ninety-five, died in Mesa, Arizona, in January' 1952. She was born in "The Great Territory of Deseret," near the present site of Las Vegas, Nevada, the first white child born in Nevada.
During her years of service as a midwife in the vicinity of Pine, Arizona, she rode horseback, on many occasions as much as forty miles, to assist at births. She was: the mother of eleven children, and among her descendants were eight great-great grandchildren. MORE colleges are open to women than to men in the United States, there being 273 colleges for women only as against 228 for men only. Of an estimated 2,045,000 college enrollment about 705,000 are women, with about 105,000 attending women's colleges; the other 600,000 are in co-educational institutions. ULANE University has received a $30,000 grant for research on the B vitamins under direction of Dr. Grace A. Goldsmith, professor of medicine. "THE United States Army's first woman dentist, Captain Helen E. Myers, was commissioned a year ago and has now been sent overseas to a hospital in Trieste.  C-> EDIT ORIAL | ~o 
VOL. 
Sabernacle in the Wilderness Behold, and hearken, O ye inhabitants of Zion, and all ye people of my church who are afar off, and hear the word of the Lord..
With the return of spring to the mountain valleys, the saints in Zion and those in far places are looking forward to the time of their meeting in general conference in the great Tabernacle on Temple Square. For eighty-five years members of the Church have assembed in this historic building to hear again the voices of their presidents and prophets teaching the principles of the restored gospel. The Tabernacle, first used for general conference in 1867, was erected by faith and sacrifice, by a people who knew material poverty and spiritual grandeur. 'The saints return to conference as a people coming home to that which they love and cherish. For them there has always been enduring strength, security, inspiration, and a great peace within the walls of the Tabernacle. In the early years the saints journeyed to conference from the "far boundaries" in wagons and buggies, on horseback, and many of them walked long distances to hear the words of salvation and to have their faith renewed. Afterwards, their days and weeks were blessed and enlightened by the lasting influence of precious words and lofty music—and the spirit of a united people gathered in worship. It is . (D. & G. 70:1). As one devoted saint once remarked, upon his return to his farm after attending general conference, "And often, following the furrows, I seem to hear choir music and words of wisdom directing my course in life, even as I follow this furrow." Now the great Tabernacle cannot hold the multitudes who come to conference, but the words of the prophets and the voice of the organ are carried to far places, and thousands who will never see the Tabernacle—who will never stand within its domed walls—still may enter into the spirit which is there, and they may be partakers of the joy and the uplifting comfort which so abundantly radiate from the sacred walls. And by the written word, the gospel messages are sent to the saints abroad to be long treasured. And over the years the messages delivered at the general conferences in the Tabernacle have been words of rejoicing, of gratitude for the restoration of the gospel, for the Prophet Joseph Smith and The Book of Mormon, and for the carrying of the message of salvation to the far countries and to the isles of the sea. The saints have heard words of direction for their temporal wel- EDITORIAL fare, and they have been nurtured by eternal truth.
They have been advised to build chapels, stake houses, tabernacles, and temples—to build with the strength of lasting stone, and with the beauty of the spirit "which exalteth."
They have been comforted in adversity and sorrow, and they have been instructed regarding their relationship © 245 to "that great banner'—the Constitution of the United States, established "by the hands of wise men.
Raised up unto this very purpose." And the saints have been instructed regarding that perfect and final government which Jesus will establish upon the earth for its everlasting glory. —V. P. C.
Gaster on the Fills Alice Whitson Norton Across the hills the voice of Easter sings— In feathery, leafing elm and budding vine, _In sycamores that whisper in the sun, And storm-lashed oaks above the timberline.
Across the hills the voice of Easter sings— In homing birds now nesting in the trees, And on the passing winds the whole day long, Broadcast, with joyous hearts, their symphonies.
Across the hills the voice of Easter sings— Through tender plants now bursting into bloom, Each one revealing in a quiet way | The resurrected Christ—the empty tomb! Migration Lael W. Hill Already the valley holds warmth from this newest-come season—. The delicate plumes of the June grass turn golden; deep red Appears, with its promise of love on the buds of the roses. The perfumes of linden and locust are mingled, wind-spread.
Spring has gone up to the mountains and sharp-clefted canyons, Hiding blue violets there among lingering snows, Belatedly touching the maples and aspens with magic, Teaching swift water the liquid of song that it knows.
Already the valley air shimmers in bright premonition; The pressure of summer grows firm over meadows and rills And, tentative, reaches ahead to the slope that lies nearest— Following spring up green trails to the cool of the hills. 8
Wotes.
10 THE FIELD Delay in Magazine Subscriptions Due to unavoidable conditions, the Magazine circulation department has been delayed a few weeks in filling the orders of new and renewal subscribers. We trust that this delay has not caused too much inconvenience to these subscribers. We desire to thank all those who have.
Been so affected for their patience and understanding. Save Shese Lives Furnished by the American Cancer Society, Salt Lake City Division BIFTEEN million Americans will die of cancer by the end of this century _ unless present mortality rates are altered.
Although improved diagnostic and treatment methods have lowered the death rate for some types of cancer, the number of deaths is rising because of our expanding population and its increasing proportion of older people. Bécause cancer is nearly always curable when diagnosed in its early stages—and nearly always fatal when undetected until advanced—knowledge of the seven danger signals is of paramount importance. The warning symptoms are:. Any sore that does not heal. A lump or thickening in the breast or elsewhere.
Unusual bleeding or discharge. Any change in a wart or mole, Persistent hoarseness or cough.
Persistent indigestion or difficulty in swallowing. Any change in normal bowel habits. | oon These signs do not, of course, point inevitably to cancer, but a physician should always be consulted.
More facts about cancer have been discovered in the last seven years than in the preceding history of the world. By spreading these facts through education and service, the American Cancer Society hopes to save thousands of lives this coming year.
This is a much larger problem than might appear at a glance.
Education and research become the major objectives of the Cancer Crusade. We need the help of everyone—in funds, time, and ability—to save the lives that can and must be saved.  ~