Vol. 39 No. 4 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

=== UNCAPTURED BODY TEXT (1 segments, 9,546 chars) ===

On more than one occasion he had reprimanded them with these words: "O ye of little faith." did 213 There were other incidents which would indicate a wavering of devotion on the part of his brethren. There was never, on the other hand, time nor an occasion when the devotion of the women to the Savior could have been questioned. The constant affection, loyalty, and devotion of the Marys and the other women were evident under every condition. 'They were at his side when he labored up the hill to the place of crucifixion. 'They wept bitterly as they walked and, as he beheld their great sorrow, he spoke to them words which were to be among the last that he uttered. They were words of tenderness, yet words of ominous warning: "Daughters of Jerusalem, weep not for me, but weep for yourselves, and for your children. For, behold, the days are coming, in the which they Shall say, Blessed are the barren, and the wombs that never bare. Then shall they begin to say to the mountains, Fall on us; and to the hills, Cover us. For if they do these things in a green tree, what shall be done in the dry?" It was a prophetic warning to the women of the destructive forces which were approaching and which would lay low in sorrow and anguish those who had denied the Lord. They, the women, were at the foot of the cross and heard the promise he spoke to the penitent thief, "To day shalt thou be with me in paradise'—the promise that carries hope and salvation beyond the grave to the spirits who would believe and obey the gospel which he would take to them during the interval between his death and resurrection. 'They heard the 214 prayer to his Father for mercy to them who were nailing him to the cross: "Father, forgive them; for they know not what they do." They were beholding him when he looked down, with a tenderness and love that could never die, at her who was his mother. They, no doubt, listened to catch the words he spoke to her. Words which would reveal his anxiety for her future security. I, 7 To the grief-stricken mother he said: "Woman, behold thy son." And to John the beloved they heard him give this gentle command "Behold thy mother!" John immediately grasped the meaning of the words—that he was to care for the mother—for the record states: "And from that hour that disciple took her unto his own home." I Following the departure of the mother with John, the other women continued at the place of crucifixion until they heard from the lips of their Lord the final cry of victory: "It is finished' and the last mortal prayer to his God: "Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit." Notwithstanding the heartbreaking experience of witnessing the crucifixion and death of the Master, the women could not depart from following after him, and_ they watched from a short distance the burial of the body in the sepulchre of Joseph of Arimathaea. N the third day following the entombment they were the first to discover the empty grave. 'They -had gone early in the day to the tomb prepared to anoint the body RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1952 with spices and ointment they had prepared before at the time of the burial. As they approached the _tomb they were met by an angel who announced to them the glorious fact of the resurrection. "Fear not ye:" he said unto them, "for I know that ye seek Jesus, which was crucified, he is not here: for he is risen, as he said. Come, see the place where the Lord lay." After looking into the deserted sepulchre, the women were then commissioned by the angel to be the first to carry the message of the resurrection to the disciples: "And go quickly, and tell his disciples that he is risen from the dead; and, behold, he goeth before you into Galilee; there shall ye see him." Mary of Magdala was so bowed down with sorrow upon seeing the empty grave that she did not hear all that the angel had said. She hastened to the disciples ''And saith unto them, They have taken away the Lord out of the sepulchre, and we know not where they have laid him." I Having reported that the body had been removed, she returned to the garden of his resting place. Here she was presently to be the most favored of women; she was to behold the immortal resurrected Son of God, her Lord and Master. As she looked again into the sepulchre where she had but a few hours since beheld the lifeless body, she saw "two angels in white sitting, the one at the head, and the other at the feet, where the body of Jesus had lain. And they say unto her, Woman, why weepest thou?" And the woman answered: "Because they have taken away my THE WOMEN AND THE RESURRECTION Lord, and I know not where they have laid him." Then, turning back away from the sepulchre, there stood before her one whom she did not: immediately recognize. It was the Lord whom she had been seeking. It was he who had risen from the dead. "Jesus saith unto her, Woman, why weepest thou? Whom seekest thou? She, supposing him to be the gardener, saith unto him, Sir, if thou have borne him hence, tell me where thou hast laid him, and I will take him away." Jesus then spoke to her but one word—and the tenderness with which the word was uttered revealed to her his identity. He walked and talked with two of his disciples during a day's journey to Emmaus not long after the resurrection, but his identity was withheld from them. But only one word was spoken to the woman and she no longer supposed him to be the gardener. "Jesus saith unto her, Mary." The burden of a saddened heart was lifted when she heard her name thus spoken. Many times before she had thus been addressed by her Lord, but never before had her name been spoken by immortal lips. It was a woman's name, not the name of a disciple, that the resurrected Son of God first uttered. To him Mary was the most favored of names. It was not only the name of the first woman to whom Christ spoke as the risen Lord. It was the name of the sainted mother who had given him birth; it was the name of the sister of Lazarus who had seen him re- 215 store life to her brother; it was the name of the mother of James and John; and many others whom he loved no doubt bore the name which he had spoken to the woman in the garden near the place of his burial. As he uttered the name, Mary beheld that it was Jesus who had spoken, and she cried out to him: '""Rabboni; which is to say, Master." She was the first to behold the resurrected personage and she was the first to hear his voice, but she was not to be the first to touch him. "Jesus saith unto her, Touch me not; for I am not yet ascended to my Father." As the women had been the first commissioned by the angel to announce the resurrection of Jesus to the disciples, so also it was a woman who was sent by the Lord himself to proclaim his ascension to his Father; "but go to my brethren, and say unto them, I ascend unto my Father, and your Father; and to my God, and your God." He later-was seen by other chosen women before he appeared to the Priesthood. As these other women were returning from the deserted sepulchre "Jesus met them, saying, All hail. And they came and held him by the feet, and worshipped him." I Mary Magdalene had been the first to look upon the Redeemer in his resurrected state, but her eager desire to embrace him was not to be fulfilled. It was the other women who later saw him who were granted the honored privilege of touching the body of the first soul who had conquered death and the grave. 216 HE memorable episodes of the early hours following upon his resurrection evidence the gracious and considerate appreciation displayed by the Lord for the steadfast devotion and enduring love of the women. Jesus easily restrained any impulse which may have beset him to appear first to his disciples as a resurrected personage, rather than to the women. Manifesting himself first to the women was a reward which they had well earned and of which they were indeed worthy. He loved the brethren of the Priesthood, but the faithful women were accorded priority in the beholding of the risen Redeemer. Not she with trait'rous kiss her Savior stung, Not she denied him with unholy tongue; She, while apostles shrank, could danger brave, Last at his cross, and earliest at his grave. —Barrett Christ's tribute to woman when he revealed himself to the women before he appeared to his chosen disciples, was second only to that of the Father when he selected a mortal woman to be the mother of his Only Begotten Son. No greater tributes than these have ever been paid to womankind. Women who willingly give birth to the children of men do not quesRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1952 tion the fact of redemption from the dead. As they suffer the pain and processes of the creation and pulsations of the embryonic life within them, there comes to them a certain conviction that redemption from death can be no more miraculous than birth. 'They have an inward witness of the scientific I truth that the matter and elements of life are indestructible. The tender love of a mother implants within her heart the certain knowledge that the life of her child whose body has been lowered into the grave has not been annihilated, and that the physical element' of the body which was formed within her may again be brought together and become a resurrected soul. 'This sublime faith of mothers in the fact of the resurrection shall not go unrewarded, and just as surely as the women whom Christ loved beheld his body which had risen from the tomb, so will all mothers at an appointed time look upon their children, who have been

=== ADVERTISEMENTS (2 segments, 6,961 chars) ===

--- Ad from: A New Life for Old Greeting Cards by Clara Laster ---
Whitney (2) Woven into this life story is the light and color of the times in which Daniel H. Wells lived. $2.75 J. GOLDEN KIMBALL By Claude Richards (3) Here you meet the full man, filled with telling wit, good humor, and genuine greatness. This biography contains the best of J. Golden Kimball's anecdotes, talks and sayings. $3.50 Life of a Great Leader — Heber J. Grant By Bryant S. Hinckley (4) A collection of the intensely interesting and inspiring experiences of Heber J. Grant $2.50 I ee eee ee ee ee se eee Pee I a Send for FREE price list of L. D. S. Church Books. Postage paid - I by Deseret Book. (Utah residents add 2% Sales Tax.) 5 = DESERET BOOK COMPANY a = 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah a Please send the following books: (1) (2) (3) (4). I am enclosing $ a = ( ) Check; ( ) Money Order. = = an I = Are. 02 o. Oo oeoc cece ceseccccvececcececeeveveceesescseteeeeeeseeeeesessenes State La i] ee ) Please send price list on L. D. S. Books Ld = I = I. I. I — Book Co j ' Wanes. Om fF 8 ff! Mention The Relief Society PoE When intl From Advertisers Why the Family Heading Gluh offers \ 3 OF THESE 8, Y I GREAT NEW odo. =a I For ONLY U. S. POSTAGE 2¢ Paid PERMIT No. 690 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH: WiTh MEIMGERSHIF ES, YOU ARE INVITED to accept any three of the being objectionable in any way, the Family Reading Club is just what you have 'been looking for! Read, below, how the Club brings you the very finest new books at bargain prices Then mail the wonderful books shown on this page for only $1.89, with membership in the Family Reading Club. Founded to select and distribute books which are coupon to join the Club and get the three books you worthwhile, interesting and entertaining without want, without delay! Thorndike-Barnhart CREATIVE HOME DECORATING By Fulton Oursler The Old Tescamenc Sctory—of Adam, Eve, Moses — of all the Biblical immortals; retold by the author of ''The Greatest Sto- § ry Ever Told.'' Publisher's edition, $3.95. Desk Dictionary ~* A really comprehensive book. Contains 80,000 entries, 700 i!- lustrations, 900 pages. Newly-

--- Ad from: Better Looking Patches — Quicker by Thalia Black 268POETRYConcerto — Frontispiece by Eva Willes Wangsgaard ---
GOLDEN KIMBALL By Claude Richards (3) Here you meet the full man, filled with telling wit, good humor, and genuine greatness. This biography contains the best of J. Golden Kimball's anecdotes, talks and sayings. $3.50 Life of a Great Leader — Heber J. Grant By Bryant S. Hinckley (4) A collection of the intensely interesting and inspiring experiences of Heber J. Grant $2.50 I ee eee ee ee ee se eee Pee I a Send for FREE price list of L. D. S. Church Books. Postage paid - I by Deseret Book. (Utah residents add 2% Sales Tax.) 5 = DESERET BOOK COMPANY a = 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah a Please send the following books: (1) (2) (3) (4). I am enclosing $ a = ( ) Check; ( ) Money Order. = = an I = Are. 02 o. Oo oeoc cece ceseccccvececcececeeveveceesescseteeeeeeseeeeesessenes State La i] ee ) Please send price list on L. D. S. Books Ld = I = I. I. I — Book Co j ' Wanes. Om fF 8 ff! Mention The Relief Society PoE When intl From Advertisers Why the Family Heading Gluh offers \ 3 OF THESE 8, Y I GREAT NEW odo. =a I For ONLY U. S. POSTAGE 2¢ Paid PERMIT No. 690 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH: WiTh MEIMGERSHIF ES, YOU ARE INVITED to accept any three of the being objectionable in any way, the Family Reading Club is just what you have 'been looking for! Read, below, how the Club brings you the very finest new books at bargain prices Then mail the wonderful books shown on this page for only $1.89, with membership in the Family Reading Club. Founded to select and distribute books which are coupon to join the Club and get the three books you worthwhile, interesting and entertaining without want, without delay! Thorndike-Barnhart CREATIVE HOME DECORATING By Fulton Oursler The Old Tescamenc Sctory—of Adam, Eve, Moses — of all the Biblical immortals; retold by the author of ''The Greatest Sto- § ry Ever Told.'' Publisher's edition, $3.95. Desk Dictionary ~* A really comprehensive book. Contains 80,000 entries, 700 i!- lustrations, 900 pages. Newly-writren, accurate. Recently featured © in Life. Publisher's oo: edition, $2.75. _: ANS 68 EN QUESTIONS nVvan THE PRESIDENT'S LADY 10,000 GARD wa 6s By Irving Stone ct id How Rachel Jackson Su —insuleted by the nation and attacked by her enemies — overcame all odds through devotion to her husband to lead him to * the Presidency! JEN lems answered by 3 ms i Sr P~ Pi:. THE GREATEST BOOK EVER WRITTEN I rooms,'' complete step- & By The Rockows Work wonders in yourts home with this huge es manual! Contains 500% illustrations, 41 full-i3 color ''demonstration ¥ by-step methods. Pub- @ lisher's edition, $4.95. ¢ Pe 2. Oa ae — d. By FP. F. Rockwell Covers the whole field ot gardening in question and answer form, with importance prob- 15 experts. 1,488 pages. Profusely illustrated. Pub. Edition, $4.95. Fm THE VOICE OF ASIA By James Michener The Pulitzer-Prize winning author of "Tales of the South Pacific'' now tells the intimate, personal stories of the people of Asia. Publisher's edition, $3.50. 30TH ANNIVERSARY READER'S DIGEST READER. More than 100 of the best-known articles ever printed in the 4 Reader's Digest — on medicine, science, religion, ew. The cream of the world's most By Mary Lynch Shows you how to cw/, sew, hanes and re model clothes like a professional! Easy to follow, complete, ful! Of ideas and shortcuts. Illustrated. Publisher's edition, $3.95. THIS UNUSUAL OFFER TARA'S HEALING By Janice Holt Giles Dr. Cochrane came to the hills ready to give up medicine — even life. Then he found in the simple people the faith and strength to face the greatest chalJenge of his life! TH Famity Reapinc Crus makes this unusual it if they wish, and which can be retained in your offer to demonstrate how membership in the home library with pride. Club brings you the best and most enjoyable new HOW MEMBERS SAVE UP TO 60% books at much less than the publishers' retail editions! Each month publishers submit books they You pay only $1.89 each (plus postage and hanbelieve will meet the Family Reading Club stand- < dling) for the books you purchase after reading ards. Our Editors then select the one book they the book review magazine which will come to your can recommend most enthusiastically — a book home each month. You may accept as few as four which every member of your family can read, which books each year to retain your membership — and you can safely leave where older children can read you will xs a pice ae ane, Book ree for eac our ub selections! From the Club for only $1.89 each— y MAIL COUPON NOW! I y ° F instead of the publishers' Send no Reoder money now, just mail the coupon I —a — ——_ é + —— [5 Tore's Healing I at once. Before you forget! U Under 20 Lomer good only in the UL 8. A.

=== EXTRACTED ADS ===

--- Ad content from V39_04_19_Fict_Our_April_Short.txt ---
Here you meet the full man, filled with telling wit, good humor, and genuine greatness. This biography contains the best of J. Golden Kimball's anecdotes, talks and sayings. $3.50
Life of a Great Leader — Heber J. Grant By Bryant S. Hinckley (4) A collection of the intensely interesting and inspiring experiences of Heber J. Grant $2.50 | ee eee ee ee ee se eee Pee | a Send for FREE price list of L. D. S. Church Books. Postage paid - | by Deseret Book. (Utah residents add 2% Sales Tax.) 5 = DESERET BOOK COMPANY a = 44
East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah a Please send the following books: (1) (2) (3) (4). I am enclosing $ a = ( ) Check; ( ) Money Order. = = an | = Are. 02 o. Oo oeoc cece ceseccccvececcececeeveveceesescseteeeeeeseeeeesessenes State La i] ee ) Please send price list on L. D. S. Books Ld = | = |. |. | — Book Co j ' Wanes. Om fF 8 ff! Mention The Relief Society PoE When intl From Advertisers Why the Family Heading Gluh offers \ 3 OF THESE 8, Y | GREAT NEW odo. =a | For ONLY U. S. POSTAGE 2¢ Paid PERMIT No. 690 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH: WiTh MEIMGERSHIF ES, YOU ARE INVITED to accept any three of the being objectionable in any way, the Family Reading Club is just what you have 'been looking for! Read, below, how the Club brings you the very finest new books at bargain prices Then mail the wonderful books shown on this page for only $1.89, with membership in the Family Reading Club. Founded to select and distribute books which are coupon to join the Club and get the three books you worthwhile, interesting and entertaining without want, without delay! Thorndike-Barnhart
CREATIVE HOME DECORATING
By Fulton Oursler The Old Tescamenc Sctory—of Adam, Eve, Moses — of all the Biblical immortals; retold by the author of ''The Greatest Sto- § ry Ever Told.'' Publisher's edition, $3.95. Desk Dictionary ~* A really comprehensive book. Contains 80,000 entries, 700 i!- lustrations, 900 pages. Newly-writren, accurate. Recently featured © in Life. Publisher's oo: edition, $2.75. _: ANS 68 EN QUESTIONS nVvan THE PRESIDENT'S LADY 10,000 GARD wa 6s By Irving Stone ct id How Rachel Jackson Su —insuleted by the nation and attacked by her enemies — overcame all odds through devotion to her husband to lead him to * the Presidency! JEN lems answered by 3 ms i Sr P~ Pi:. THE GREATEST BOOK EVER WRITTEN | rooms,'' complete step- & By The Rockows Work wonders in yourts home with this huge es manual! Contains 500% illustrations, 41 full-i3 color ''demonstration ¥ by-step methods. Pub- @ lisher's edition, $4.95. ¢ Pe 2. Oa ae — d. By FP. F. Rockwell Covers the whole field ot gardening in question and answer form, with importance prob- 15 experts. 1,488 pages. Profusely illustrated. Pub. Edition, $4.95. Fm THE VOICE OF ASIA By James Michener The Pulitzer-Prize winning author of "Tales of the South Pacific'' now tells the intimate, personal stories of the people of Asia. Publisher's edition, $3.50. 30TH ANNIVERSARY READER'S DIGEST READER. More than 100 of the best-known articles ever printed in the 4
Reader's Digest — on medicine, science, religion, ew. The cream of the world's most By Mary Lynch Shows you how to cw/, sew, hanes and re model clothes like a professional! Easy to follow, complete, ful! Of ideas and shortcuts. Illustrated. Publisher's edition, $3.95.
THIS UNUSUAL OFFER TARA'S HEALING
By Janice Holt Giles Dr. Cochrane came to the hills ready to give up medicine — even life. Then he found in the simple people the faith and strength to face the greatest chalJenge of his life! TH Famity Reapinc Crus makes this unusual it if they wish, and which can be retained in your offer to demonstrate how membership in the home library with pride. Club brings you the best and most enjoyable new HOW MEMBERS SAVE UP TO 60% books at much less than the publishers' retail editions! Each month publishers submit books they You pay only $1.89 each (plus postage and hanbelieve will meet the Family Reading Club stand- < dling) for the books you purchase after reading ards. Our Editors then select the one book they the book review magazine which will come to your can recommend most enthusiastically — a book home each month. You may accept as few as four which every member of your family can read, which books each year to retain your membership — and you can safely leave where older children can read you will xs a pice ae ane, Book ree for eac our ub selections! From the Club for only $1.89 each— y MAIL COUPON NOW! I y ° F instead of the publishers' Send no Reoder money now, just mail the coupon | —a — ——_ é + —— [5
Tore's Healing I at once. Before you forget! U Under 20
Lomer good only in the UL 8. A. And Conader] ] FAMILY READING CLUB
