[Dear Conquest — Part II by Deone R. Sutherland]

Dear Conquest Part II Deone R. Sutherland Synopsis: Maggie Sullivan, young and beautiful, comes to Oakville as a high school teacher and attends the Deer Hunters' Ball with Charlie Kirkenson, a lawyer, and meets a rancher, Ira Scott. Ira plans a wiener roast on Indian Mountain and invites Maggie and a number of her friends to his cabin for the party. HE ride to Indian Mountain T was especially lovely in the fall. Maggie's hair gleamed in front of us in the last of the evening light. We had our heavy jackets, but Ira said we would use the cabin if it got too chilly. My John balanced the three-layer cake on his knee. Ira turned into the narrow winding road up the steep mountain. "Well, I expect you chose the ~ best site around for a cabin," said My John, with appreciation, when we finally stopped the car. "T hope to have more time to use it this winter," said Ira. "The ranch house is bleak enough in summer, without having to stay there the whole winter." "You got enough men, it seems to me, to run things in the winter pretty well," said Annie, getting out of the car. "I keep telling Ira he should just move in with us during the winter and relax a little. He certainly younger."
Maggie had followed Ira out of the car, and stood looking down into the valley while we were talking. She wore a soft, blue wool jacket, and her curly hair looked sweetly isn't getting any colorful above it. Ira stood by her, following her eyes. Her, "It is beautiful," we scarcely heard. But I could see Ira's face relax when she spoke. The best room in the cabin was the living room. It went the length of the cabin and contained mostly fireplace and books and, of course, Ira's desk where he worked. I had never thought much of Ira being a reader until Maggie stood looking at the rows of books. But then the party was starting, and the fire was roaring outside. We could come in to a fire in the fireplace when it got colder later on. "Perhaps we could have the 'Sing' inside," decided Annie. Andy Gillis and Allie Peterson handed out the sticks for the roast, and the smell of sweet ears of corn was in the air. "Tve never been so hungry," sniffed Maggie. "All you have to do to endear you to a host or hostess here in Oakville is to say you're hungry," laughed Annie bustling around. She was especially excited over Ira taking time out to mix with folks a little, I thought. I got a funny feeling watching Ira across the fire after the main eating was over. He'd always been someone who had to know and get what he wanted. And there he stood with a foot on a log listening to the others sing, but his glance kept coming again and again to Maggie in the burnishing firelight.  256 It was too bad Charlie had had to go back to River City today. It would be a relief to have him back next week-end.
Maggie would be busy with schoolteaching all week. Why, she had only met Ira Scott the night before, and the times Ira Scott had appeared at socials in Oakville in the last three or four years you could count on one hand. I was getting old to.
Encourage needless fears. "This is the very best evening I have ever had," said Maggie, sighing, as Ira made sure the fire was out. My John was yawning in the cabin. "We'll come up tomorrow and clean for you, Ira," said Arinie, cartying things down to her car. "All right." Ira was still kneeling at the fire. "I appreciate all your help, Annie." _ "T loved doing it." Her voice was muffled from leaning over in the car. She straightened up. "I'd do lots more if you'd let me, Ira."
John came down the steps, carrying my cake plate.
Maggie watched the last.
Ember sizzle into nothing. "It's so sad putting out the fire. I almost wish I'd left before." | "Yes," I answered Maggie, "it's too cold for another mountain party this year.
This is probably the last." I climbed into Ira's car beside My John. "But the place for the fire stays there," said Ira. "Next spring." he began, and then he stopped. "Shall we go?" He opened Maggie's door, and we began the long winding ride down the mountainside. I steeled myself not to be nervous about going down the jutty  lane in the dark. I wondered how Maggie could always be so relaxed. I followed her eyes and watched the dark, looming blackness that meant trees and underbrush move past the car. I began to feel easy with Ira driving. ONE afternoon after the first heavy snowfall, Maggie helped little "An Short build a snowman in his back yard which was next to ours. "T think you're havin' more fun than Alma," My John called over. "T am!" shouted Maggie Charlie Kirkenson came _ before the snowman was finished. He stood on a gunny sack on my back porch and shook off the snow while he laughed at Maggie. "Oh, I am late," panted Maggie apologetically when she came running home. I opened my oven door and basted Archie, the duck, once more. "Don't do that again," called Charlie. "I can't stand it. I'll faint from hunger." "It's only wanting someone to eat it," I called back, closing the oven, checking the top of the stove, and giving an eye to my dining room table.
Maggie darted upstairs, and in a moment was down again in a green wool dress.
Melted snow crystals still glistened occasionally in her short hair. "The snow makes your color good," said My John to Maggie. "The oven makes mine," I said tartly. "That it does," laughed My John.. We sat down to dinner, and My John blessed the food.
Then he DEAR CONQUEST began carving the duck and filling my best bluebird plates. ~ "In no time at all you'll have to go to school on snowshoes," said Charlie to Maggie. "Will you like that?" "Tll love it," declared Maggie, emphatically. "And I won't be able to get in to see you for a few months.
Will you like that, Maggie?" "Not very much," laughed Maggie, "but I'll probably survive." "You're heartless," said Charlie, and he speared his duck.
They left Charlie's car in front and walked down to the Palace through the snow. My John and I were still up when they came back. "We couldn't even stop for a soda," Charlie explained. "I'm afraid of getting snowed in up here if the snow keeps falling. I'll have to start right away for River City, I guess." "Be careful," cautioned Maggie. "You wouldn't like to go to River City with me sometime?" asked Charlie. "It's a nice city to live in." "T don't think so," said Maggie. She stopped unwinding her yellow scarf. "TI like Oakville." "I hear my competition's more than just Oakville, Maggie."
Charlie was smiling, but his hands were unsteady on the buttons of his overcoat. "That's right," said Maggie in a very low voice. My John rustled his newspaper very loudly, and Maggie and Charlie quit looking at each other.
Maggie went to the door with Charlie. She came back alone and fumbled 257 with my lace parlor curtains. She looked out at the snow. "Tm an interfering old woman," I began, "but Charlie is one of the nicest young men a body could hope to meet anywhere this side of heaven." "Yes," said Maggie sincerely, and then she said good night and went upstairs to bed. [ wasn't long before Maggie almost did need snowshoes to get to the school. But Brother Isaacson brought his four children to the school right past our place, and he said one more on the "go-devil" wouldn't hurt anything. So Maggie rode there and back with them, unless she stayed late and walked home, which she liked to do. Ira Scott came in from the ranch a few times, and when he did he unloaded at Annie's and then came straight to our place. Ira would sit in the living room sometimes and talk to My John about cattle.
Maggie would curl up in an armchair by the fire and knit.
Sometimes they hardly spoke a word to each other the whole evening. Ira took Maggie sleigh riding, and then he asked her to go skiing up Eagle's Peak. "Do you know how to ski, Maggie?" I asked. I wrapped up cold turkey sandwiches for them to take. "Yes," said Maggie, "but don't tell Ira. I'm going to let him teach me." Her eyes twinkled. Ira had everything packed on the sleigh when he came for Maggie. He stood in the front hall waiting while Maggie adjusted her blue cap and drew on her long mittens. He looked long and thin and a little lonely, watching Maggie when he 258 thought no one was watching him. I felt a brief pang of sympathy for Ira.
Maybe he didn't always get just what he wanted. "Tm sorry our skiing days are over," I said to My John while I watched Ira cover Maggie in the sleigh. "[m not," grunted My John comfortably, "and don't say, 'Isn't that just like a man'?" He smiled at me as I went by. "I think ll start my pre-Christmas cleaning," I said energetically. RA and Maggie went out and got our tree and set it up. The night' before Christmas Eve Ira came and they both trimmed it. Ira had moved into Annie's for the holidays. We had all gone to the schoolhouse for a Christmas program and party a few nights. Before Christmas Eve. We always went to the church for _ Christmas Eve. Maggie's stepmother had sent her a beautiful blue dress of the softest wool Id ever seen, all trimmed in tiny silver buckles and a box of silver jewelry to go with it. I had crocheted Maggie a lace tablecloth, which I planned on slipping under the tree after everyone set out for the church. | The people were already singing Christmas carols when I reached the church. "Who's the Santa Claus?" I whispered to Annie when the jingling of bells announced the arrival from the North Pole. "It's Ira," whispered Annie. "I know, you're as surprised as I am." I was too surprised to say anything. But he did his part well, laughing, calling out the names, his  voice going a little lower when he called Maggie's.
None of the children guessed him, and when he came back later in his own clothes it seemed natural for him to be coming late. He and Maggie came over and sat by us. We ate popcorn balls and listened to the Christmas program.
Maggie played the piano for the singing and then played a solo.
When she finished, she came back and sat beside Ira. 'They smiled at each other, leaving all the room behind.. I reached over and took My John's hand. He was so startled, he jumped. We opened the presents after we got back from church.
Maggie gave John a white nylon shirt and me a flannel nightgown with matching slippers and robe. I was so pleased all I could do was blush.
Maggie opened the tablecloth and admired it. She tried it out on my table, and then sat holding it. "It's very beautiful," she said. "I love it because you made it, actually made it." She exclaimed so over things we made with our hands. As if that was one of the secrets for happiness she was just discovering. | brought in the candy Maggie and I had made together for Christmas, and My John passed the nuts and fruit. "This is a holiday," Maggie said, "T won't knit tonight." Ira fixed the fire until the flames roared in the chimney. "Will you play the piano again, Maggie?" Ira asked. So Maggie put on her coat and opened the door into the little chilly parlor. She and Ira opened the DEAR CONQUEST piano, and Maggie played from Peer Gynt; then she played some Beethoven and Bach, and it all sounded exactly right. My John began to yawn, while I began to doze. It was a few minutes before I could make myself come awake enough to realize the music had stopped. I turned my head toward the parlor.
Maggie was standing by the piano, and Ira, Ira was standing by Maggie cradling her head in his hands, holding her face as if he would never stop looking. It couldn't have been as long as it seemed for me to force myself to drop my head without a sound.
They tiptoed out of the parlor, and I heard them saying good night in the front hall.
Maggie shut the door, and then she just stayed standing there. I got up and went into the parlor and closed down the piano. I shut the parlor door behind me. My John slept peacefully in his chair. I moved into the hall where Maggie still stood. "Maggie," I said, "Ira's not had much of a happy life. I guess he's missed most of the joys, but, nevertheless, there's no good reason for you to want to break someone like Charlie's heart for a life that can't 259 help but be lonely and maybe hard. Ira's older and harder and not likely to change very much from what he's been.
People have to keep changing all the time when they're matried they have to."
Maggie looked up at me then with eyes so bright that the words faltered on my lips. I didn't know what I was trying to tell her anyway. | "You mean,' asked Maggie, "it might be harder with Ira?" "Yes, I guess so," I said. "IT don't want it easy," Maggie said fiercely. "I want it real. I want it to be the realest thing that has ever happened to me. If there's any meaning in my life, Pll find it through Ira." My John stood in the doorway. "Well, who's making all the speeches?
When are we going to get to congratulate you and Ira, Maggie?"
Maggie smiled gently. "Now," she said. She held out her hand to us, and I saw the flash of a diamond. "Ira and I are going to be married in the spring." | My eyes began to mist as I kissed her, but hers were bright and so happy I felt a catch in my heart. (To be continued ) _Gaster Mlorning Eunice J. Miles The darkened hope, the hidden glory, Stand revealed on Easter morn, When human limitations vanish, And consciousness of soul is born. Then Christ reveals himself to men, And hope eternal dawns again. - SARAH ANN PREECE AND HER HOBBIES c/wo uioootes — f i taste ana I Leealecraft
Sarah Ann Boice Ames Preece Serves Her Church and Community and Makes
Her Friends and Relatives Happy
Sarah Ann Boice Ames Preece, of Richmond, Utah, eighty-three years old, is a musician and a homemaker who uses her time and talents for service to others. She plays the piano, violin, and banjo, and sings beautifully, even at her advanced age.
For family reunions, Relief Society socials, Family Hours, and community entertainments Mrs. Preece is in great demand. Her favorite tunes are: "Haste to the Wedding"; "Rock Creek"; "The Love Waltz"; and "The Waltz You Saved For Me." She has played the music for many dances, and, in December 1951, she and two of her daughters furnished the music for a dance in Richmond.
In addition to her musical talents, Mrs. Preece is an excellent reader and elocutionist, being particularly expert in presenting humorous recitations. She is also an excellent needlewoman and makes fancy quilts, knitted capes, stoles, and shawls.
She crochets doilies of many intricate patterns and makes colorful crocheted rugs. Her homemade bread is famous in her community, and her recipes are treasured by many friends and relatives.
Of pioneer heritage, Mrs. Preece is the daughter of the first couple ever married in Oxford, Idaho, and her grandmother was the first woman of her handcart company to enter the Salt Lake Valley. A widow, she had requested permission from the company captain to begin her journey each morning a little earlier than the others, as she had so many young children to push in the handcart. Thus she was the first to be greeted by the scouts whom Brigham Young had sent out to meet the company, and they escorted the young widow into the Valley. Mrs. Preece is the mother of nine children, and she has 220 descendants.
Page 260

cXow-Cos/ 1 1 teat and d^/ther iProtetn UJishes
EIna Miller
Extension Nutritionist, Utah State Agricultural College Extension Service
Received Through the Utah Nutrition Council
Y^UR family needs foods which three-fourths of their protein supare high in proteins to build and ply comes from animal foods and repair the soft tissues of their bodies, the other one-fourth from plant
The soft tissues include blood and food. Other adults may be well muscles. Along with the good qual- nourished with half their protein ity protein foods, you need those supply from plant sources and half which are high in minerals and vita- from animal foods, mins to help with the building and Recent research in nutrition regulating of strong, healthy bodies, proves that our bodies function best
You also need foods which provide when the protein supply is divided the calories for your daily energy equally among the three meals, needs. This newer research shows also that We find our best quality proteins we make much better use of the in animal foods. Milk, cheese, eggs, proteins from plant foods when they lean meat, including liver and other are eaten at the same meal with organs, as well as fish and poultry, proteins from animal foods, even are high in the best quality proteins, though the amount of the animal
Soy beans and other dried beans, protein food is small. A glass of peas, and lentils, whole wheat and milk taken with a peanut butter wheat germ, peanuts and peanut sandwich will improve the quality butter, are our best plant sources of the proteins in the peanut butter, of good proteins. These foods may Variety meats such as liver, kidbe used to supplement the higher neys, heart, and tongue are usually quality proteins from animal foods, much less expensive than are the but not to replace them. muscle meats. They also are high
Children and expectant and in proteins as well as in minerals nursing mothers get along best when and vitamins.
Variety Meat Recipes
Liver Loaf
(Use beef, pork, lamb, or veal liver)
1 Vi lbs. liver 1 tsp. salt
2 slices bacon 1 c. cracker crumbs
1 medium onion i Vi c. liquid
2 eggs Vi c. catsup
Cook liver slowly five minutes in water to cover. Save the liquid. Put liver through food chopper with bacon and onions. Add all other ingredients except the catsup. Tomato juice, milk, bouillon or liquid in which the liver was cooked may be used for moisture. Mix thoroughly. Pour the catsup into a well-oiled loaf pan.
Pack meat mixture over catsup. Bake in a moderate oven (35o°F.) for i hour.
Serves 8.
Page 261

1 beef tongue water to cover
2 tbsp. salt
3 pieces celery
2 whole cloves
6 small onions, thinly
262 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE— APRIL 1952
Spiced Tongue Slices
2 bay leaves
12 whole peppers
2 c. sugar
2 c. vinegar
2 c. water sliced
Wash tongue. Cover with salted water. Add the celery and spices. Cook slowly until tender, about one hour per pound. Skin and slice. Cook sugar, vinegar, and 2 cups water 10 minutes. Pour over tongue. Add onions. Store in cool place and use as desired. Serves 8.
Tongue Shortcake
Place slices of leftover tongue on pieces of split hot corn br ead and top with hot condensed mushrooms or tomato soup. HeEarT FRICASSEE (Use beef, pork, or veal heart) 1 small beef heart,'3 pork hearts, 2. Tsp.
Salt or 2 veal hearts | " ¢.
Sliced onion flour lc.
Diced carrots % C.
Bacon drippings or lard — 1 c¢, canned tomatoes "Wash the tens and trim off hard parts, if necessary.
Slice across grain.
Dredge in flour and brown in bacon drippings. Season. Add onion and brown. Add carrots and tomatoes and cover tightly.
Simmer about 1% to 2% hours, or until tender. Serves 6 to 8.
Recipes for Dried Beans, Peas, and Lentils The "bean family'' recipes which follow are made with the addition of a small amount of lean meat, eggs, milk, or cheese.
This small addition of protein foods from animal sources makes the proteins from the dried beans, peas, or lentils much more valuable.
Dried peas or lentils may be used in place of dried beans in any of ae following recipes.
Cook the dried beans or dried peas this way: Look over the beans or peas and wash carefully. Cover 2 cups of dried beans or peas with one quart of cold water, and soak overnight or 5 or 6 hours in lukewarm water.
When ready to cook, add a teaspoon of salt and simmer slowly in the soaking water, in a covered pan, until the beans are tender but not broken. Add more water during the cooking, if necessary. You can add flavor by cooking beans with salt pork, sausage, bacon, or a ham bone. Beans WitTH FRANKFURTERS Cut frankfurters in half lengthwise and arrange on top of cooked beans in a shallow baking dish.
Bake in a moderate oven until the frankfurters are hot.