SISTERS' VISIT TO GRANTSVILLE.

	On Friday morning, Dec. 12, 1884, in com-
pany with Sisters M. I. Horne and E. S. Taylor,
we started for Grantsville, via. of the Utah
Western Railway, to attend the conference of
the Relief Society, Y. L. M. I. A. and Primary
Associations of Tooele Stake to be held at 
Grantsville. At the Mill crossing a carriage
and horses met us and we drove to Grantsville,
calling at Bishop Hunter's, where we were
joined by Sister Mary Ann Hunter, and pro-
ceeded to Elder Samuel Woolley's residence, a 
little outside of town. There we were most
hospitably welcomed and feasted upon the
good things the country affords. In the even-
ing the family gathered together in the large
and handsome parlor, and in singing and music,
with conversation upon various topics, the even-
ing passed pleasantly away. Elder S. Woolley
Jun, the Eldest son, who had recently re-
turned from a three years' mission to the Sand-
wich Islands, gave us some of his experience
there, and the little folks sang, among other
pieces, some very pretty songs composed in
honor of his return home, that had been set to
music [-]y Prof. Ratliffe of that place.
	Saturday morning the conference of the Re-
lief Society convened in the Grantsville meet
ing house, Mrs. M. A. Hunter presiding. There
were present Prest. H. S. Gowan and Counselor
Anderson of Tooele Stake, and other brethren.
Sister Jane Eastham gave a brief report of
the Society of Grantsville, and Sister Emily
S. Warburton of the Society of Tooele. The
meeting was addressed by Sisters Hunter,
Horne and Wells. In the afternoon the Pri-
mary conference convened. About one hun-
dred and fifty children were present, Sister
Sarah Hale presiding. The programme was a
very good one and responded to promptly.
Sister Louisa Hale, who presides over the Pri-
mary at Grantsville, seems to understand how
to deal with the little folks. On account of
the weather there were no children present and
no reports from other wards in the Stake. The
children were addressed by Sisters Taylor, Wells
and Horne. The singing was very good in-
deed, and the choice of selections both for sing-
ing and speaking were good. The answers to
Bible Questions were very correctly given.
	Saturday evening, at 7 o'clock, the Y. L. M.
I. A. conference was held. There was a numer-
ous attendance, and a great many young men
in the audience, Mrs. Ann Tate presiding.
Miss Ettie Hale, who has recently been chosen
to preside over the Y. L. of Grantsille, made.
a few remarks, also Sister Tate, and then Prest
Elmina Taylor made a stirring appeal to the
young people, followed by Sisters M. I. Horne
and E. B. Wells in the same strain.
	Sunday morning we had the pleasure of at-
tending the Sabbath School,which is under the
able direction and management of Supt. Wm.
Jeffries. The manuscript paper was one of 
the most pleasing features of the day. Some
of the exercises were deferred on account of
the visitors from Salt Lake being present, each
of whom addressed the School for a few
minutes.
	At 2 o'clock the conference convened again
as per adjournment on Saturday morning, and
after the sacrament was administered, Mrs. M.
A. Huuter made a few opening remarks, and
was followed by the visiting sisters. The sub-
jects treated upon were the duties pertaining to
the several organizations in which the sisters
were called to labor, the religious, political and
social questions of the day, the paying of
tithes, storing of wheat, building of Temples
and work to be done in them for the living and
the dead, the rearing of children, their disci-
pline and training, family government, etc.
Prest. Gowan and Counselor Anderson made
some remarks, encouraging the sisters in their
labors, and endorsing what had been said dur-

[Column 2]

ing conference. Conference adjourned for
three months to be held at Tooele.
	During our visit at Grantsville we were en-
tertained at the homes of Bro. Aroet Hale,
Bro. John Eastham, Bro. Alma Hale, Bro.
Wm. Young and at Bishop Hunter's. The
visit was a very agreeable one, and the people
were most hospitable and kind.
	Monday morning Bro. Earnest Hale con-
veyed our party to the station, Sister Hunter
accompanying us to the city.


