UTAH COUNTY.

	Minutes of the conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Utah County, held Nov. 28th, 1884,
Prest. Mary John presiding. Conference
opened by singing and prayer, reading of
minutes of former conference, etc.
	Sister John said: "It is with peculiar feelings
that I stand before you to-day. Hitherto our
beloved President, if not with us, was where I
could counsel with her in all affairs pertaining
to our society in this Stake of Zion, but now I
stand alone, as it were, and I ask an interest
in your prayers that I may be strengthened,
and perform my duties satisfactorily. I will
now give way for the presidents of the county
to give in their reports.
	This took up most of the time in the fore-
noon. The Resolutions of Respect to the mem-
ory of our beloved President, Margaret T.
Smoot, were read, and after singing and prayer
conference adjourned till 2 p.m.

[Column 2]

	Afternoon, conference resumed its session:
Quite a number of the brethren were present.
Opened by singing and prayer. Sister John
said, we will proceed to business.
	Prest. A. O. Smoot said he was pleased to
see so many of the sisters present to represent
the several branches of the Relief Society of
Utah County. Understood it was the purpose
to fill the vacancy occasioned by the demise of
President Margaret T. Smoot, and as Sister
John had been nominated to fill that vacancy
he would call a vote of the conference to that
effect. The motion was carried unanimously.
Bro. Smoot said the position was an important
one. It is unnecessary to eulogize the works
of the sisters they speak for themselves. Spoke
of the aid the sisters had been in helping on
the work on the Stake Tabernacle by their dona-
tions, etc.
	Sister John then chose Sister Rhoda Lyman
as her first Counselor and Sister Emily G.
Cluff as her second Counselor.
	Sister John said: "I feel this a great responsi-
bility, but I will endeavor to do the best I can,
for I realize that this is the work of God, and
with your faith and prayers I feel I shall suc-
ceed."
	Sister Lyman said: "I feel to respond to
every call that is made upon me, and I ask
your faith and prayers that I may succeed."
	Sister Emily G. Cluff said: "I am willing to
respond to every call, and with your help I
will do the best I can."
	Bro. John spoke of the nomination of Sister
Anna K. Smoot for Stake President of the
Primary Associations of Utah Co., and called
for a vote of the conference to that effect,
which was carried. Bro. John said this office
was a very important and responsible one,
and it needs just such women as Sister Anna
K. Smoot to preside over these associations;
faithful, energetic and true Latter-day Saints,
etc. 
	Sister Lucy W. Kimball regretted that she
could not be with us at our last meeting; was
at the bedside of our dear Sister Smoot. "She
has passed away; we miss her, and shall miss
her for years to come, and while we are passing
away, one by one, it reminds us very forcibly
that earth is not our home," etc.
	Bro. H.H. Cluff thanked the sisters for the
very able manner in which they had responded
to his call for help for the new Tabernacle."
	Bro. John endorsed all that had been done.
Spoke of Ma Smoot as a wise counselor and a
woman of wisdom and knowledge; one that
had been associated with the leading members
of this Church, and we shall miss her much.
	Sister John said she felt that we had had a
feast to-day, and prayed God to bless us all.
After singing conference adjourned for three
months. Benediction by Prest. Smoot.
	C. DANIELS, Stake Sec.


