OUR COUNTRY'S WRONGS.

My country, O my country!
	My heart it bleeds far thee;
Thy patriots have departed,
	Thy down-fall now we see.

	Fair Columbia! Heaven born boon of free-
dom, where hast thou fled? To the land of
spirits to look down and weep over your country's
wrongs? Look within the prison walls of Salt
Lake City and behold one that was born a legal
heir to the Constitution which guarantees to
every man the sacred right to worship God ac-
cording to the dictates of his own conscience.
Bid not Rudgar Clawson stand up nobly before
the court and claim marriage to a second wife
a religious right, by quoting that clause in the
Constitution, "Congress shall pass no law pro-
hibiting any man from the free exercise of re-
ligion?"
	In the name of truth and reason who has
violated this law, Rudgar Clawson, or Congress
that has passed laws prohibiting free born
American Citizens from the free exercise of re-
ligion?
	The Constitution of the United States was
given by inspiration, preparatory to the coming
forth of the Kingdom of God. Methinks I see
the veteran fathers, who shed their blood to be-
queathe to us that sacred, heaven-born boon,
liberty, taking notes of the proceedings of the
courts that have sentenced God's servants to
prison without an appeal; but there is an appeal


higher than the Supreme Court of the United
States, where angels and patriots will set on the
jury, God Himself being the Supreme Judge.
He is the God of the ancient apostles, Paul and
Silas, that could break down their prison walls.
He is the God of Esther, the queen, who, when
all her tribe was to be slain, called a fast of a
three day's fasting and prayer, although it was
death, by the law, to appear in the Inner court
of the kingdom without permission, she said, at
the close of the fast, "If I die I die," and went
and stood in the inner court of the king; and
God moved upon the heart of the king to say
these words, 'What is thy request Queen Esther?
If it be half of the kingdom it shall be granted
thee." Her request was to save her people and
hang Haman instead of Mordecai.
	Now, let all the daughters of Zion do likewise:
remember those brethren who are in prison, and
their families; proclaim their innoconce, and
call upon angels to bear record on earth and in
heaven of their unjust imprisonment and the
suffering of their sorrowing, injured families; it
is worse than death. The cries of those inno-
cent women and children will ascend up to God
against those who have violated the Constitution
and brought this sorrow and despair upon the
innccont.	WILLMIRTH EAST.


