REVIEW OF BOOKS.

	We have received from the Juvenile Instruc-
tor office the pamphlet, "The Tennessee Mas-
sacre and its Causes, or the Utah conspiracy."
A lecture by Elder John Nicholson, delivered in
the Salt Lake Theatre, on Monday, September
22nd, 1884, and stenographically reported by John
Irvine. For Sale at Juvenile Instructor Office,
price, 10 cts. It contains a complete narrative
of the tragedy, and of the attitude of our ene-
mies, the political ring in Utah, with extracts
from the Salt Lake Tribune, and some criminal
statistics, showing who are the law-breakers
here. Taken altogether the lecture is a very
able setting forth of things that have transpired
here recently, all of which, through the press
and the representations of men in office and the
anti-polygamy party generally, including
priests and parsons, have had their bearing upon
the people outside, and those that are unacquaint-
ed with their real life no doubt, by means of
these malicious statements, imagine the Mor-
mons to be something very dreadful; too wicked
to live on the earth.


Another pamphlet of 80 pages, published and
for sale at the Juvenile Instructor Office for 10
cts. per copy, is an adddress delivered in
the Twelfth Ward Assembly Hall, Salt Lake
City, October 16th, 1884, by Elder Charles W.
Penrose. It is entitled, "The Mountain Mea-
dows Massacre." The subject is fully discussed,
and important documents, some of them official
ones, bearing upon the matter, are published
and properly authenticated. It is a book that
ought to have a wide circulation, for the sub-
ject has been handled in the most clumsy man-
ner by many—and the blame of the whole
transaction attributed to the leaders of the
"Mormon" Church. The speaker has shown
plainly that there is nothing to substantiate
such a statement at all, and that Brigham
Young and his associates in office were complete-
ly vindicated by the testimony of John D Lee,
and the statements of reliable men, both Gen-
tiles as well as Mormons. Every body should
read the book for themselves, and scatter copies
of it abroad wherever they may have an oppor-
tunity.
	"Picture Album and Story Book," is a new
book for the children, issued from the Juvenile
Instructor Office. It contains thirty pictures,
very interesting ones, with the description on
the opposite page. It is a new idea, and a very
pretty one, and will certainly be a pleasure to
the little folks, who are always delighted with
pictures. Price, 25 cts.
	The magazine, "Life and Home," has taken
a new title. It is very well adapted for home
reading, and is a useful addition to our home
literature.
	The Academic Review, published in Provo by
the Polysophical Society of the Brigham Young
Academy contains much useful informa-
tion. It is a neat little pamphlet published
eight times during the academic year. It is
quite a pleasing enterprise, and very creditable
to the young people.
	We have received "Choice Literature," a
monthly magazine, published in New York. It
contains an assortment of reading matter in the
form of essays, sketches, biographies, descrip-
tive articles, etc., and seems to be very ably
edited.


