COLLEGE EVILS.

	"Yes, colleges are good things, and there is
much common sense about them, as there should
be. Young men, when they go to college, take

[Column 2]

a little common sense with them and they leave
it there; they leave it there."
	Such was the remark of a crusty, but very
level-headed old gentleman, after listening to a
glowing account of what colleges in the United
States were doing for its young men. The word
colleges is here used in a sense that embraces
all educational institutions above local acade-
mies. The presumption would probably hold
if colleges, the world over, were embraced
largely as being subject to the witty and scath-
ing remark of the crusty old gent above alluded
to. There is no doubt that many brilliant men
speak—by eventful and useful careers after
they have entered fairly wild the active battle
of life—volumes in behalf of what a college
education will do for a young man if he has
but the will and the judgment to seize the
good such a course offers him, and the deter-
mination to resist the temptations so closely as-
sociated with the good, that it often requires
the best balanced head to decide where the one
terminates and the other begins; for one
thoroughly educated man a college turns out,
averaging them all through, there are a dozen
numbskulls ground through, and full as many
young men unsettled and uufitted for life by
lack of discipline, and by the acquisition of vices
which, not only corrupt and waste them bodily,
but which totally undermine that true and
abiding love for moral instincts, without which
it is absolutely impossible to lead a correct
life.
	In addition to these, though bad enough,
though less penicious than other evils, is the
tendency of many institutions to the develop-
ment of effeminate tastes, desires and trains of
thought—as against the vigorous, manly and
noble instincts which alone fit man for life in
a world where man is strong, hasty and domi-
neering. This latter tendency is greatly true
of West Point, paradoxical though it may
seem, where the course and the instruction, if
not calculated to inculcate moral ideas, beyond
what is considered the honor of soldiers, is cer-
tainly as free from a tendency to effeminacy as
possible.
	A hop was given one evening when I was
visiting that lovely spot. The cadet, or those
who were to graduate that coming season, were
in the greatest demand. It disgusted me to the
soul to observe the number of sweet-faced lov-
ing and lovable, fair formed, tender looking
and true girls who would hang upon the arm,
look anxiously in the face of, and listen to the
interminable twaddle of any number of puny,
insignificant little whipper snappers, because
they happened to be cadets. They could talk
of nothing and about nothing but themselves;
the air, the tone, the gesturre, implied plainer
than all words could possibly express: "To
imagine anything more glorious than to be a
cadet, or to think it possible there should be
anything superior to me, is the measure of ab-
surdity." And I began to think so too, when I
saw how universally these same fair girls seemed
to accept the tacit proposition as one of heaven's
own truths, and noticed to what extent the
matrons and dames having them in charge gave
whatever force they could to maintain the pre-
vailing sentiment, by smirking, bowing, simper-
ing over, and manifesting deference to a horde
of kids they should have soundly punished and
sent to bed. One young fellow, said to be un-
usually bright and to stand well in his class,
addressed himself twice in my hearing; first, to
a lovely looking girl, and then to a simpering
dame, the mother of the girl, in the following
vein:
	"Oh, yes, I stand well in my class. Yes,
some of the boys" (meaning them) "cannot be
at the hop to-night, as they are laid up in the
hospital. They were hurt in the riding school.
Haven’t you heard of our class? Oh, ours is
going to be a famous cavalry class! why we are
already distinguished; dear, yes. That branch

[Column 3]

of service—the cavalry—is rapidly increasing.
I belong to it! The life of a cadet is very en-
viable. No, indeed, I don't wonder at you ad-
miring it; we all do; all the boys. We have
glorious times! Of course it is hard to keep up,
you know, we have to be very intelligent, but
then we admire it, and that, of course, is
enought." And so he went on with this inces-
sant chirping, and both mother and daughter
manifested a degree of tact and intelligence in
the variations with which they were paralyzed
and surprised with ecstacies of delight at the
frankness of this ingenuous youth, that would
have done honor to a creditable and brain re-
fining pursuit.
	And this, I am informed, is the topic of con-
versation of every, or nearly every cadet. No
wonder young lieutenants are not noted for their
remarkable intellects and great conversational
powers. No wonder that mere association with
one of them is sufficient forever to pulverize
the heart and tender fancies of a blushing
maiden. Yet the young fellows are not all to
blame. These match-making mothers trot
about after the body soldiers, deifying them,
forcing upon them a choice among any number
of priceless girls just budding into tenderest and
sweetest womanhood, whose angel faces betray
unconscious innocence; until the young men
get the notion that there exists nothing in flesh
and blood, made up in the divine form of
woman, that is not a condescension for them to
gaze upon with favor. This is the unparalleled
essence of vanity, or if it exists anywhere in
a more powerful degree than in West Point,
prevent me, heaven, from ever coming in con-
tact with it. If the dignity and the enduring
credit of the American army has to depend
upon such specimens of humanity, then save us,
heaven, for we are lost.
	There are many and notable exceptions to
what is said, fine, strapping young men that
one cannot help admiring, and whose counten-
ances show a power to resist evil and to look
forward to a more glorious future than is with-
in the mental ken of the wildest "army mash-
er;" but compared with the whole, there are few;
and, judging from what I have seen and heard,
if a community should be forced into a posi-
tion requiring prayer to be delivered from this
specimen of "army officer," or the "army
worm," for one I should pray that the "worm"
be allowed to remain.
