"A HAPPY NEW YEAR."

	To be happy let us make new resolves, and as
the old year is going out and the new one com-
ing in, let us do better in the future than we
have in the past. Forsake all evil and every-
thing that has a tendency to lead us from our
Heavenly Father. If we have not been true to
our covenants, to our neighbors, or to ourselves,
let us make retribution as far as lies in our pow-
er; let us become a delightsome people in the
eyes of the Lord, that He will pour out His
blessing upon us, and make Zion the joy of the
whole earth; that her people may be a holy peo-
ple, for Zion is the pure in heart; that upon all
her assemblies and dwelling places shall be
written, "Holiness to the Lord." And that a
pillar of cloud by day and a pillar of fire by night
shall be our protecting shield. "And it shall no
more be said, the Lord liveth that brought up
the Children of Israel out of the land of Egypt,
but the Lord liveth that brought up His people
from all parts whither He had scattered
them."
	The children of Ephraim had a mark set upon
them—they were to be known by their gray
hair and bald heads; his seed was mixed among
the Gentiles, and they were to be taken one of a
city and two of a family. Those are they of the
promised seed which the Gospel came to first;
they received the divine message, and are build-

[Column 2]

ing cities, towns, villages, houses and temples,
preparatory to the coming of our Savior.
	This is the work God has called the Latter-day
Saints to perform. And now, if the President
of the United States, governors, magistrates,
people, or individuals, will assist in this great
work they shall have their reward; for so said
our Savior: "If they give a disciple a drink of
cold water in my name, they shall have their re-
ward."
	The true and living God is a merciful being,
but He does all things in His own way. He
warns the inhabitants of the earth of coming
judgments, and has since the creation.
		God moves in a mysterious way
			His wonders to perform;
		He plants His footsteps in the sea,
			And rides upon the storm.
	But the way He has sent forth His proclama-
tions, and the obsecure individuals He has
chosen, mankind in general have become offend-
ed at, and have rejected his offers of mercy and
salvation, and by so doing they have been lost.
In the days of Noah they were swept away by
the flood, and as i[-] was the[--], so it shall be again;
The people on the earth now will not give heed
to His message: "Come out of her, my people,
that ye be not partakers of her sins and receive
not of her plagues." The world at large is with-
out faith in God, as the only way to obtain it is
through revelation, and this they deny. How
could He warn His children without He sent
His messengers to them? And if they have no
confidence in a communication from Him, how
can they be moved by His word?
	Now, if the people of Nineveh had not be-
lieved in revelation they would all have been
destroyed; but they believed that Jonah had
spoken the word of the Lord to them, and in
consequence of this they repented and put on
sackcloth and sat in ashes, even the king. "The
Savior reproved the Jews for their unbelief and
held up the people of Nineveh as an example
and said to them, they repented at the preaching
of Jonah and a greater one than he was in their
midst." Their unbelief caused their overthrow,
"For therein is the righteousness of God revealed
from faith to faith; as it is written, the just shall
live by faith." Romans, 1st chapter 17th verse
Daniel would have been destroyed had he not
believed in revelation. Hear what he said to
the king: "But there is a God in heaven that
revealeth secrets, and maketh known to the
king, Nebuchadnezzar, what shall be in the lat-
ter days." Daniel, 2nd chapter, 28th verse.
After going on with the interpretation he says,
44th verse, "And in the days of these kings
shall the God of heaven set up a kingdom which
shall never be destroyed: and the kingdom
shall not be left to other people, but it shall
break in pieces and consume all other kingdoms,
and it shall stand for ever." This is definite
language given by revelation, "And the dream
is certain, and the interpretation thereof sure."
Clause 45th verse.
	All these things concern everyone, and as
each year advances the end draweth nigh. Oh,
well, those who administer the law need not
concern themselves. Yea, the call is to you,
"Come unto me all ye ends of the earth, and be
ye saved." Some say, if you believe in revela-
tion you add to John's book of revelation; we do
not add to his words, but we believe his words
will be fulfilled to the very letter, but if we did
not believe in revelation we would detract from
it, and our names be taken from the Book of
Life. "Blessed are they that do His command-
ments, that they may have right to the tree of
life, and may enter in through the gates into the
city." 22nd chapter, 14th verse. We will give
His own words to His disciples; "Go ye into all
the world, and preach the Gospel to every crea-
ture. He that believeth and is baptized shall

[Column 3]

be saved, but he that believeth not shall be
damned." "And these signs shall follow those
that believe," etc.
	Who has a right to change these command-
ments and make them read different, or say
these signs are no longer needed? We cannot
change the word of God without bringing con-
demnation upon us. Therefore the whole world
lieth in unbelief, and all are called upon to ac-
cept the truth as it is revealed in these last-
days. The kings and queens of the earth should
come up to Zion and bring their pleasant things
to beautify the sanctuary of the Lord of Hosts,
to make the place of His feet glorious.
	M. A. P.
Salt Lake City, Dec. 30, 1884.


