WELCOME 1885!

	A Happy New Year to all our readers, patrons
and friends! The beginning of a year is always
fraught with sentimental feelings. We have
just bid farewell to the old year, and there is a
sort of sadness in the very fancy of parting, but
the new year brings anticipation and sublime
resolves, and the influence of the desire to do
better, to aim higher, to live nearer to God,
buoys one up and makes glad the dawn of the
the new year. The division of time is most
wisely arranged, and the effect upon the human
soul is inspirational. There is a time for all
things, said the preacher, and if men were wise
and judicious in the matter of time no doubt
there would be. It is mortals who fall so far
short, and not the great Dispenser of times and
seasons and the over-ruler of all things.
	It may seem to some of this people that the
new year has dawned darkly for the Saints, but
the old syaing, "It is always darkest just before
the dawn," will prove true in this instance, as it
has in hundreds of others in which the Latter-
day Saints were concerned; the clouds that now
obscure the horizon and darken the homes of
faithful followers of Jesus, will roll by, and the
sunshine of prosperity will lighten their pathway,
for God reigns, and He will be acknowledged in
the earth in the deliverance of His people from
bondage. Have the Saints any reason to
fear those who are keeping the commandments
given them to observe? No; but they have
every reason to believe there will be a blessing
in the bitter cup now poured out for them to
drink. And it may be that those who are so
anxious to bring trouble and sorrow upon an in-
offensive people, will drain the dregs of the bit-
ter potion which the Saints will only taste.
	It is well to remember in all trials,
		"That the sun shines out the brighter
		When the stormy tempest clears."
But however dark the hours may seem, this is
a time for great joy in the hearts of common hu-
manity, for there are many things all have to be
thankful for. When earthquakes and cyclones,
famine and war and dire distress in different
parts of the earth are so frequent, those who
are living in a land where peace, prosperity,
plenty and health abound, have certainly abun-
dant cause for rejoicing and being thankful for
those munificent gifts bestowed by a divine
Providence.
	"There is a bright future in store for the Saint
however much they may have to pass through
in the meantime, for the kingdom which Daniel
saw is commenced in the earth and all nations,
will yet see and acknowledge that the little
stonecut cut of the mountains will become a
mighty power in the midst of the earth. No
thinking person can look upon Utah to-day with
the natural resources it possesses, and the indus-

[Column 2]

try and thrift so creditably represented in these
valleys, without realizing, to some extent, that
in the near future there will be such growth
and development among the people in trade,
manufactures, art, science and literature, and in
everything that will make a country wealthy
and powerful, that Utah, through her sons and
daughters,will gain a name and place that must
be recognized even by her enemies. The youth
of Zion have the ability to accomplish great
things. They have the physical organization
which denotes strength, courage, firmness and
force; with these characteristics combined with
strength of intellect, and the mind and the
heart properly cultivated, and every faculty
carefully adjusted, by means of wise and ju-
dicious training, what may not be expected in
the next few years. Greece was not prouder of
her sons than "Mormon" parents are to day of 
their sons and daughters born in these mountain
vales and fast[---]. They have inhaled the
breath of freedom from their birth, and their
fathers and mothers have felt that.
		"The greatest glory of a free born people
		Is to transmit that freedom to their children."
	There are a class of people who have come
here on purpose to take from the original settlers
and rightful possessors, their dear bought rights,
to rob them of every semblance of freedom and
and after having sought to deprive the parents
of every vestige of liberty, prate of freedom to
their children, telling them to shake off the
shackles that bind them. In the words of the
glorious Milton,
		"They bawl for freedom in their senseless moods,
		And still revolt when truth would set them free,
		License they mean, when they cry liberty."
	Such are the men who call out so loudly from
the pulpit and the platform to the young "Mor-
mons," to declare themselves and break away
from the superstitions of their fathers; but they
cry in vain, for though they may influence here
and there one to renounce the faith for which
their parents have endured so much, the major-
ity will remain faithful and will attain to great-
ness, and eventually become a mighty nation,
and all eyes will be turned to Zion, for her fame
will have reached to the ends of the earth.
Therefore, especially for the youth of this peo-
ple, should every year dawn with bright hopes
and high resolves to make a record that shall be
worthy the noble ambition of men and women
who are striving for the highest prize that is in
store, and for a name that is imperishable and
an inheritance that is undefiled. They who
would possess these inestimable blessings have
no time to listen to these boasters of freedom;
let them howl, "Let the heathen rage and the
people imagine a vain thing," those who fear
God and keep His commandments have every-
thing to hope for and nothing to fear.


