NOTES AND NEWS.

	"Go into a printing office, and find whether
the women who set type are paid as much as
the men. The work is paid by the piece, so
much for setting up so many thousand ems of
type; and each type-setter has to correct his or
her mistakes gratis. Thus if one type-setter
can set faster and more accurately than
another, he will earn more, provided he and
the other type-setter are of the same sex. But
the man and the woman are not paid at the
same rate by the piece. He gets say 35 cents
per thousand ems, and she 25 cents per
thousand. She may be an experienced setter,
and he a boy just learning; she may have her-
self and a half a dozen young sisters to sup-
port, and he may be living at home with his
parents, and supporting nobody; but he is paid
at a higher rate by virtue of his sex. He
would feel wronged if it were otherwise.—Ex.
	In the last New Zealand Constitution provis-
ion is made for the appointment, as Cabinet
Ministers, of two Maoris, if the Prime Minis-
ter thinks fit to make use of their services, al-
lotting to each a salary of $2,000. The Legis-
lative Council, the upper Chamber of the Colo-
ny, whose members are appointed by the Crown
for life, must have two Maori members in its
total of forty-five. The law prescribes that of
the ninety-five who make up the House of Re-
presentatives four must be representatives of
Maori constituencies. These need not be
Maoris, and there have been instances of a
Maori constituency returning white representa-
tives, but almost invariably the Marois sent up
representatives of their own race. The Maoris
residing in other than purely native districts
enjoy the right to vote in common with the
white population, the qualification for them be-
ing a $125 freehold, held individually under
Crown title or enrollment on the ratepayer roll.
The number of Maoris on the register on one
or the other of these qualifications amounts to
about a thousand. In the native constituen-
cies no registration is needed—the right of
voting is accorded to every adult of the native
race residing in the district.—Ex.


