PRIMARY.

	On Sunday evening, Nov. 23rd, the Fifth
Ward Primary Association celebrated their
second annual meeting since the re-organization.
A spacious platform had been prepared in the
meeting house, on which the little ones were
arranged, their bright, happy faces expressive
of the pleasure they felt on the occassion. The
programme was excellent, and the selections
well rendered.
	After the opening hymn by all the children,
Roy Cowan and Daisy Pettit welcomed the
audience in a charming little dialogue, which
was followed by a duet by Lizzie Palmer and
Emily Durrans; after this a recitation by Willie
Brimley; Dialogue by Alex and Archie Buch-
anan; Organ solo by Lizzie Brown; Recitation
by B. Ricketts; Duet by Lollie and Ella Mar-
croft; Essay by Lillie Pettit; Recitation by Roy
Cowan; Son[-], Emily Abbott; Dialogue. "Wait-
ing for Primary," by seven girls, which was
very interesting, not only from the principles
illustrated, but also from the excellency of its
delivery. Other exercises followed, all equally
well presented, and the programme closed with
the song, "Love at Home." President Clark
presided and the meeting house was filled with
a pleasant and attentive audience of parents
and friends.
	At the close of the exercises President Clark
called upon Elder Brown for a few remarks,
and he expressed himself as well pleased with
the order and with the efforts of the little ones.
	Dr. E; B. Ferguson then addressed the par-
ents on the importance and benefit of the Asso-
ciation to their children, and urged upon them
the necessity of their co-operation with the offi-
cers of the association in all their efforts for the
improvement and instruction of the children.
Benediction by Elder Page.


"The following patents have been granted to
women during the week ending Nov. 25, 1884:
	Sarah A. Beolt, Norfolk, Va., Combined
Folding Chair and Bath tub.
	Mary Bidwell, Springfield, Ohio, Hand Pro-
tector.
	Alice B. Bromwell, Washington, D. C., Blot-
ting Thimble or Pad.
	Isora Elder, San Francisco, Cal., Embroidery
Frame."


