OF EMILY D. P. YOUNG.

Continued

	"Until after I had spoken I knew not what
they intended to do with me, whether to kill
me, or to whip me, or what else, I knew not. I
bore my abuse with so much resignation and
meekness, that it appeared to astound the mul-
titude, who permitted me to retire in silence;
many looking very solemn, their sympathies
having been touched, as I thought. And as to
myself, I was so filled with the Spirit and love
of God that I had no hatred toward my perse-
cutors, or any one else."
	After father had been tarred and feathered,
a man raised a whip to finish up by thrashing
him, when another, more humane, laid hold of
his arm saying he had done enough.
	"Charles Allen was next stripped and tarred
and feathered, because he would not agree to
leave the country or deny the Book of Mor-
mon. Others were brought up to be served in
the same way, or whipped, but for some cause
the mob ceased operations and adjourned until
Tuesday, 23rd; Elder Gilbert, the keeper of the
store, sgreed to close that, and that may have
been the reason why the work of destruction
was suddenly stopped for two days. In the
course of this day's wicked, outrageous and un-
lawful proceedings many solemn realities of
human degradation, as well as thrilling inci-
dents, were presented to the Saints, An armed

[Column 2]

and well organized mob in a government pro-
fessing to be governed by law, with the Lieu-
tenant Governor (Lilburn W. Boggs), the
second officer in the State, calmly looking on
and secretly aiding every movement, saying to
the Saints, "You now know what our Jackson
boys can do, and you must leave the country,
etc." And when Bishop Partridge, who was
without guile, and Elder Charles Allen walked
off amid the horrid yells of an infuriated mob,
coated like some unnamed, anknown biped;and
one of the sisters cried aloud, "While you,who
have done this wicked deed, must suffer the
vengeance of God, they, having endured per-
secution, can rejoice, for henceforth for them is
laid up a crown eternal in the heavens." Sure-
ly there was a time of awful reflection, that
man, unrestrained like the brute beast, may
torment the body; but God in return will pun-
ish the soul."
	The history continues, "After the mob had
ceased yelling and retired, and while evening
was spreading her dark mantle over the un-
blushing scenery, as if to hide it from the gaze
of day, men, women and children, who had
been driven or frightened from their homes by
the yells and threats of the mob, began to re-
turn from their hiding places in thickets and
cornfields, woods and groves, and view with
heavy hearts the scene of desolation and woe.
And while they mourned over fallen man, they
rejoiced with joy unspeakabe that they were ac-
counted worthy to suffer in the glorious cause
of their Divine Maker."
	"There lay the printing office a heap of ruins,
Elder Phelps' furniture strewed over the
ground as common plunder, the revelations,
book works, papers and press in the hands of
the mob as the booty of highwaay robbers.
There was Bishop Partridge in the midst of his
family, with a few of his friends, endeavoring
to scrape off the tar, which, from the way it ate
his flesh, seemed to have been prepared with
lime, pearlash, acid, or some flesh-eating com-
modity to destroy him. And there was Charles
Allen in the same awful condition."
	As the heart sickens at the recital,how much
more at the picture! More than once these
people in this boasted land of liberty were
brought into jeopardy, or threatened with ex-
pulsion or death because they wished to wor-
ship God according to the revelations of heav-
en, the Constitution of their country and the
dictates of their own conscience. O Liberty!
how thou art fallen! Alas! Clergymen, where
is thy charity? In the smoke that ascendeth
forever and ever.
	Early in the morning of the 23rd of July
the mob again assembled, armed with weapons
of war, and bearing a red flag, whereupon the
Elders, led by the Spirit of God, and in order
to save lives and stop the effusion of blood, en-
tered into a treaty with the mobbers to leave
the county in a certain time, etc. The execu-
tion of this treaty prevented an opportunity
for the brethren in Zion to confer with the
Presidency in Kirtland concerning their inten-
tion, which they improved by despatching El-
der O. Cowdery a special messenger after a de-
lay of three days. After word had been re-
ceived from Kirtland the brethren began to
write letters and petition the Governor of Mis-
souri to look into their grievances and vindicate
their cause.
	Communication between Zion and Kirtland
was uncertain, as the mob intercepted the let-
ters sent back and forth. Lawyers Wood,
Rose, Doniphan and Atchison were secured by
the brethren giving their note of one thousand
dollars. This so enraged the mob that no soon-
er had the news spread among them than they
began to congregate and prepare for battle.
Father and some other of the brethren offered
themselves a ransom for the Church, willing to
be scourged or die if that would appease their
anger toward the Church. But the mob

[Column 3]

assured them that every man, woman and
child would be whipped and scourged in some
way until the Mormons were driven from the
county, or die if they remained.
	"Tuesday night, the 31st of October, gave
the Saints in Zion abundant proof that no
pledge, written or verbal, was longer to be re-
garded; for on that night between forty and fif-
ty, many of whom were armed with guns, pro-
ceeded against a branch of the Church west of
Big Blue, and unroofed and partly demolished
ten dwelling houses; and in the midst of shrieks
and screams of women and children, whipped
and beat in a savage and brutal manner sever-
al of the men; and with their horrid threats
frightened women and children into the wilder-
ness. Such of the men as could escape fled for
their lives, for very few of them had arms, nei-
ther were they embodied, and they were threat-
ened with death if they made any resistance.
Such, therefore, that could not escape by flight
received a pelting by rocks and a beating with
guns and sticks, etc."
	'On Friday, the 1st of Nov., women and
children rallied forth from their gloomy retreat
to contemplate with heart-rending anguish the
ravages of a ruthless mob in the mangled bodies
of their husbands, and in the destruction of
some of their houses and furniture, Houseless
and unprotected by the arm of the civil law in
Jackson Co., with the dreary month of No-
vember staring them in the face, and loudly
proclaiming an inclement season at hand. The
continued threats of the mob that they would
drive out every Mormon from the county, and
the inability of many to remove because of
their poverty, caused an anguish of heart indes-
cribable."


