SCENES AND INCIDENTS AT
WINTER QUARTERS.
BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
(Continued.)
	On Monday 31st, Horace wrote: “To-night,
about ten o’clock, we were routed from our
beds by the cry of, “All hands repair to the
center of the camp;” which was done, when the
men were sent back after their guns, etc., and
then Brother Kimball proceeded to tell them
the object of their coming together.  It appears
that a rumor that troops were on their way
there to arrest the Twelve had come to camp—
that they had crossed the river somewhere
down in the settlements, and were on their way
here, therefore it was thought necessary for
every man to be properly armed and equipped,
and that a guard should be kept up nights to
keep all spies from going to and from the
camp.  These things being attended to, and
every man told to arm himself to obey the
orders of the foreman of the division to which
he belonged, the meeting was dismissed."
     They had received this news through the
medium of Mr. Sarpee, who was living in the
village.
	“Tuesday, 22nd.  This morning, at ten
o’clock, the men in the camp were all requested
to meet at the Springs in the valley below our
camp.  President Young then addressed them
and told them the object of our coming to-
gether, which was to organize ourselves into
companies for self-defense.  A vote was taken,
whether we should retain the old officers of the
Nauvoo Legion as captains of companies, etc.,
or choose new ones.  The vote was unanimous
in favor of the former proposition. Brother
Kimball’s boys and myself attached ourselves
to the company of artillery under Captain
Jacobs.  A vote was finally taken whether we
should remove immediately to our winter quar-
ters, as affording us a better place for conveni-
ency and self-defense. It was decided in the
affirmative, and that we commence to remove
to-morrow—one division at a time, the breth-
ren assisting each other in so doing.  The com-
panies were dismissed into the hands of their
respective officers, with the caution to be on
the alert, and ready at a moment’s warning to
be called out by night and by day as occasion
may require.  The captains dismissed their com-
panies with the same admonition.”
	“Wednesday, 23rd.  Being misty to-day,
rather inauspicious for our removal: A num-
ber of the brethren with teams came to our
assistance, and we arrived at our winter
quarters about 1 o’clock p.m., which is three
miles from Cutler’s Park.  We are located on
the second shelf of the river bottoms, which is
laid out in the form of a city, five acres in each
block, consisting of twenty lots.  The city, as
laid out, occupies, or takes in, from 6 to 800
acres of ground.	*	*	*	*	* 
This evening Squire Wells and Wm. Cutler
arrived from Nauvoo.  They have been six
days coming from that place.  They came in
a buggy.  One object of their coming is to get
teams to send back for the poor brethren, who
are not able to come without assistance.”
	They brought considerable news, and next
morning came to our tent and remained for an
hour or more, telling the particulars of the
late battle between 100 of our brethren and
1000 of the mob who came to attack the city,
and were kept at bay by the little force, who
compelled them to retreat, with considerable
loss, as supposed, although the mob wonld not
acknowledge the loss of a man.  There were
three killed on the brethren’s side and three
wounded.  The action lasted an hour and
twenty minutes, and took place between Win-
chester street and Spuire Wells’ house—in the
neighborhood, where my father had built his
first house.  The place was then called Com-
merce.  The mob had six cannons, besides their
small arms; the brethren five cannons.  Presi-
dent Young, my father and a number of the
Twelve, and some others were present at our
tent to hear him relate the affair, after which
Dr. Richards read the articles of the capitula-
tion of the City of Nauvoo, which took place
on the 17th inst.
	The next day Horace wrote: “Council held
to-day near Brother Taylor’s tent. Squire
Wells related to the people the circumstances
that lately transpired at Nauvoo, and said that
there were a great many brethren in very indi-
gent circumstances, who would not be able to
come away without assistance.  Consequently
the council determined to raise teams and send
back for them—it was thought advisable, first,
to get all the teams they could of those who
had built houses on the other side of the river,
at Mount Pisgah and Garden Grove, because
they being, in a great measure, prepared for
the winter, could better spare their teams than
we who have not yet built a single house, ex-
cept the one that Brother Kimball brought
down from Cutler’s Park.”
	Squire Wells and Wm. Cutler started on the
28th.  On the first of October Horace men-
tions going with several of the boys haying,
and the same evening he played the violin at
a party held at his father’s tent, on the aniver-
sary of his little sister Maria’s birthday.
	On the 3rd he says: “Brother Lathrop and
another brother arrived here from Miller’s
camp; they had been stripped of nearly all
they possessed, and moved away from Bishop
Miller's, some distance, when they had con-
cluded to come down here, supposing it to be
only thirty miles—they traveled six days, and
arrived here at last, having nothing to eat dur-
ing that time,except a wild goose, a rabbit and a
turtle that they killed on their route.” He
speaks also of the band meeting that evening,
or part of them, and says, “I joined them and
played with them.  I am to play the instru-
ment (flute) formerly used by Andrew Cahoon,
who expects to start shortly for England;”
also of experiencing a very severe frost that
night, for the first time that season.  We had
had considerable rainy, windy and disagreeable
weather.  A few days after our removal the
wind was so severe that our tent and a nnmber
of others were blown to the ground.


