WEBER STAKE.

	Thursday morning, Dec. 11, 1884, the Re-
lief Society conference convened in the Ogden
Tabernacle for two day's meeting, Mrs. Jane S.
Richards presiding. There were present sever-
al Bishops, and Coun. Middleton of the Presi-
dency of that Stake.
	After singing "Come all ye sons of Zion," etc.,
prayer was offered by Elder A. Smurthwaite,
singing, "Let us pray, gladly pray," minutes
of previous conference were read by Miss Newey.
Prest. J. S. Richards was the first speaker; she
referred to the Stake organization of the Re-
lief Society in Weber County as one of the
last works performed by the late Brigham
Young, and said they had been blessed in all
their labors since that time; spoke of her own
feelings in attempting to perform what Prest.
Young had instructed her to do, and that she
felt it was her duty to do all that he had placed
upon her to the best of her ability, and that
strength and courage had been given her from
time to time to carry out his wishes. She
praised the sisters for the noble part they had
taken in coming to her aid, and spoke of the
union, which had been so gratifying, and the
co-operation of the Bishops and brethren in
every good work the sisters had undertaken.


[Column 1]

Sister Mary Bird of Lynne represented the Re-
lief Society of that ward, and also bore her
testimony to the truth of the Gospel, Sister
M. Bingham of the ward in which she presided,
after which Sister E. B. Wells addressed the
conference.
	Bishop P. G. Taylor made some commenda-
tory remarks, endorsing what had been said by
the sisters, after which Sister Mary Douglas
reported West Weber Relief Society, and con-
ference adjourned till 2 o'clock. Singing.
Benediction by Bishop McQuarrie.
	Afternoon session: After singing prayer
was offered by Elder W. R. R. Stowell. The
speakers in the afternoon were Counselor H. C.
Brown, Prest. M. Shirtliff, East Harrisville,
Prest. M. A. Ellis, Second Ward Ogden, E. B.
Wells of Salt Lake City, Prest. C. F. Middle-
ton, Bishop R. McQuarrie, Bishop S. Bingham,
and Sister Ann Odell.
	Prest. Richards made some quite eloquent
remarks in regard to the desire she had to help
on the Latter day work, and commended the
sisters' liberality in giving of their means, and
especially for the generous donations made to
the Logan Temple and to the Deseret Hos-
pital.
	Friday morning: Conference resumed its
session; after the usual exercises and a few words
from Prest. Richards, Sister Mary Hall,
Treasurer, reported the financial condition of
the Relief Society of the Stake. Brief ad-
dresses were then made by Elder Stowell, Sis-
ters B. W. Smith of Salt Lake City, Prest. S.
A. Herricks and Apostle F. D. Richards, and
he seemed inspired to speak in the most father-
ly way to the sisters who had assembled there
for instruction.
	The meeting in the afternoon was addressed
first by Sister Bathsheba W. Smith. Prest. L.
R. Farr reported the Third Ward of Ogden;
Elder Wm. Butler made some remarks. Prest.
L. W. Shirtliff in his remarks spoke of his re-
cent visit to the east, and of visiting his mother's
grave in Nauvoo; alluded to the dilapidated
and ruinous condition of that once beautiful
city, and made some very excellent general re-
marks upon the society of the world, and
blessed the Relief Society.
	Apostle F. D. Richards spoke of the trials
the Saints were called upon to endure; said the
work was growing and the things now transpir-
ing are positive proof of it; thought there was
no occasion to fear the threats or menaces of
our enemies; exhorted all to prepare for the
promised coming of the Savior.
	Prest. Jane S. Richards made some very ap-
propriate remarks at the close of the confer-
ence; rejoiced in the testimonies that had been
borne during the two day's meetings, and prayed
for a blessing upon all.
     Singing, and then benediction pronounced by
Apostle Richards. Conference adjourned for
three months.

