EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The women of Cache Co. are up and doing.
On Friday, the 5th of December, our Relief
Society Stake President, E. Bensen, with her
First Counselor, Lucy Cardon, started out to
visit the settlements north of Logan that had
not been already visited this year. She stayed
one night with her son, at Trenton, made an
appointment for Sunday afternoon, then went
on and met with the Relief Society at Clark-
ston.
	On Friday our Primary Stake President,
Jane Molen, with her First Counselor, Adeline
Barber, two other ladies and James, the boy
emigrated two years ago by the Cache Co.
Primaries, as driver, started to fill appointments
also north of Logan, reaching Clarkston, where,
after partaking of a comfortable supper, all
were invited to attend a choir party, where we

[Column 2]

met a kindly welcome from Bishop Jardine
and others present. We were much gratified
to see the courtesy and good order there prac-
ticed. The nice boys, some six feet high and
some little fellows, while they danced with their
guests did not forget their own little sisters and
their grandmas, as well as their young ladies.
	On Saturday, at 10 a.m., in the large, com-
fortable Clarkston school house, with the choir
in attendance, the Relief Society held their
meeting, which was called to order by Presi-
dent Mary Griffin. The society of Clarkston,
Newton and Trenton were then represented,
and the reports of each were very favorable.
The President of Trenton was honorably re-
leased, and Catherine Ames appointed to fill
the vacancy. The congregation was then ad-
dressed by the visiting sisters, instructed in
many things, and all invited to attend the
Primary, which would meet at 2 p.m. A full
house was the result, and after hearing the re-
ports Sister Molen questioned the children on
many points—requested them always to answer
in concert, and gave some excellent instruction.
which was followed by the other sisters, each
speaking a few words of comfort, counsel and
exhortation.
	After this meeting Sister Benson returned to
Trenton to fill her appointment. Met there
C. O. Card and Counselors Mrs. Carrie Smith
and Miss Carlisle; they held meeting there con-
jointly, and the Primary company went to
Newton and were comfortably and pleasantly
entertained. They met the Stake President,
C. O. Card and company, at the Sabbath
School. Held a conjoint meeting there, and
much good instruction was given. Mothers
were instructed to be kind and good to their
children; boys and girls to interest themselves
in their pursuits, and live so that mother should
be their best friend and counselor; boys and
girls should live so that if father and mother
could see every action of their lives the blush
of shame would never rise to their cheek. A
good deal was said to the little ones about
prayer.
	The Primary party returned through Benson
and held a meeting at Hyde Park at 3 p.m. on
Monday afternoon. The house was filled—the
oldest grandmas and the youngest babies, all
the children and many of the sisters being
there. The exercises were exceedingly well
rendered; the children, without being bold, were
quiet and self-reliant; fully proving that the
Primary schools are doing a great work in pre-
paring the minds of the young for the Mutual
Improvement Associations.
	At Clarkston Sister Emma Pike related a
warning dream, that had greatly impressed
itself on her mind—that herself, E. S.
Crowther and the teamster were in immediate
danger of being overturned on a dug way. It
came true; and only by keeping our seats as we
had done in her dream, that we were saved
from a bad accident.
	I cannot conclude this little article without
mentioning our little "Picture Gallery." By
way of change the children of the 6th Ward
Primary were instructed to draw with pencil
each a picture. There was a great variety,
showing plainer than words the character of
the artists. Portraits of President Pike
and husband, her counselors, gorillas, monkeys,
roosters, cats, geometriccal lines and solids,
pretty rooms, fine clothes, etc., which were ex-
hibited to the children at Clarkston and at Bro.
Rigby's.
	Hoping you will find room for this little
sketch, I am,	Respectfully,
