			DREAM.

I sat by my hearth; in the coals’ glowing red
Strange pictures arose like a spell;
Now in beauty they glowed, now in vapors they fled,
	Figures strange, that no language could tell;
The room was close curtained, the fire shone bright,
	Tick, tick, flew the moments away—
I turned in my chair from the lamp’s mellow light.
	And sat watching the shadows at play.

Long I sat there half dozing and yet half awake—
	One, two, rang the solemn old clock,
And the voice of the wind seemed the moan of a lake
	When the storm throws its waves on the rock.
Then the shadows that played on the wall turned to
		trees,
	The moon through the curtain shone in,
And the sweet song of birds floated faint on the breeze,
	Like the breath of a vesper hymn.

Then like a forest tall masts rose to view,
	Flags flattered, of many far lands,
And the soft splashing waves brought bright treasures
		to strew
	At my feet, on the white shining sands—
And I watched once again, as in days that are past,
	The sunset illumine with gold
The sky overhead, and the waves rolling past
	Over gems, over depths dark and cold.

But a hand held my own, that was true, that was
		warm,
	And no omen of trouble was there,
As I looked in her face, like a saints’, while her form
	Seemed clothed in the radiant air.
'Twas a vision of truth, that the years have fulfilled.
	For I stand on eternity’s beach;
I could hear, I could sec, if the tumult were stilled,
	The voice and the hand that doth reach.
*		*		*		*		*		*
Then I rode through the odorous avenues where
	The rose and the orange tree twined;
O! all life was abloom!  for another was there,
	And his love and his smile they were mine,
And he leaned, as we rode 'neath the wide spreading
		tree,
	And gathered the bloom laden sprays
To wreathe into garlands.  O memory! these
	Were brightest of far away days.
*		*		*		*		*		*
Did the embers fall down! Did the wind Bhake the
		sash?
	For I started, as one from a dream;
And the vision was changed, and leaped like a flash
	The future, ’neath prophecy’s beam.
Lo, the old years had gone, and the new in their place
	Brought a bliss that the past never knew—
For the Mourner and Comforter met face to face
	And the promise lie gave them was true.

And I learned, as I gazed on the mystical throng,
	Of the truths in our earth lives concealed,
That we pass, seeing not; and I heard the sweet song
	To the soul of the faithful revealed.
Pass onward ye years—ye are bearing us there—
	To a blest immortality’s height;
To wake, weeping, no more, in our lonely despair,
	From the dreams of an earth-weary night.
				AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
December 26, 1884.


