BY HANNAH T. KING.

The clock strikes twelve. It is the noon of night!
Another year augments the eternal pile—
Another cycle in the round of time—
	Another year the denizens of earth
	Approach still nearer to their term of life,
	Earth life—and all its sublunary joys,
	Its pomps and vanities, its loving and beloved.
Solemn is this noiseless, ceaseless, stealthy,
Yet ever sure approaching foot of time—
Oh, speck of time! Oh, little day of life!
Daily we walk, our hand in hand with death;
Stealing hearts and brains afiianced unto us—
Of parents, children, brothers, sisters, friends,
Preceding us to the eternal goal,
Leaving us stranded like an o'erwhelm'd wreck.
	But come my other self—my better self—
	And let us enter that mysterious
	Chamber—styled in mother tongue, the human heart.
This flight of time, why should it make us sad?
That which is inscrutable 'tis wise to bear;
'Tis but the programme of the stage of life,
On which each mortal has to play a part,
Chosen, or selected, as the case may be,
But any way involving destiny,
Destiny that ends in immortality!
Here in our closet, with the portal shut,
Let us, my better self, this theme pursue:

This grandest study of a human life—
We look abroad, see the earth is hidden
In its shroud of snow, all creation dead,
And also our beloved and treasured dead!
O'er whom the sad "red eye" of weeping love
Has been in our bereavement bent.

Look abroad—desolation reigns around,
The sun himself looks cold and cheerless,
The ever bubbling stream in frost locked up;
Nature beautiful nature, child of God,
Mourns as though desolate and forsaken,
As though her Father had forgotten her,
And left her in the cold embrace of death.

Hush! wait! be passive, cheer thy drooping soul;
A few brief months and Sol again will rise,
Bringing warmth and brightness and renewing life
On all that now lies dead before our eyes;
Earth will "arise and shine" to meet her Lord,
Arrayed in all her gorgeous robes of ev'ry
Hue and tint, surmounted by her floral crown,
And once again life will eject the dead.

The human plants that sleep beneath the sod
Shall they not rise beneath the smile of God?
Shall the rose and the myrtle bloom again,
All nature wake to renovated life,
And all mankind lie dead forever more?
Shall goodness perish in the dark, cold grave,
And wisdom be dissolved amid the dust,
And shall tears be shed o'er such in vain?

Behold the insect that builds itself a tomb,
And long lays shrouded in its silken cone,
Without feet, or shape, or power to move;
Look again! it has burst its silent tomb,
It is full of life, and sails through the air
Rejoicing in its renovated being.

Shall life to all creation be renewed,
And God's own image, potentates of earth,
Bearing on their brow the stamp of sovreignty,
Shall they be left forgotten in the grave?
Reason, analogy and common sense
Declare, "the fool" alone can say, "No God."

Heir of immortality, lift thine eyes.
One cometh to open the prison doors
To gather from the four winds of heaven
Ills redeemed—eternally redeemed ones.
Thousands of angels are on His right hand;
He is the friend of the good, Savior
Of all—Jesus, the Son of God.


