HOME AFFAIRS

	The Office of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT has been
removed to the Hooper and Eldredge Block, Main
Street, just a few doors south of Z. C. M. I., up
stairs, in room No. 4.
	The merchants, coal-dealers and men in busi-
ness have been liberal to the poor during the
holiday time, and much has been distributed by
the Bishops and the Relief Society through the
city. The weather has been favorable for those
who have been short of fuel, and it is ardently
to be hoped that no one has suffered.  There is
certainly no need of any real suffering while the
granaries and barns are filled with grain, and
the cattle abound "upon a thousand hills."
	The conference of the Relief Society of this
Stake was held as per appointment in the Four-
teenth Ward Assembly Rooms, on Friday, the
26th of Dec., Mrs. M. I. Horne presiding.


The meeting was well attended considering the
season of the year and the inclemency of the
weather. Reports were heard from nearly all
the branches of the Relief Society, and much
valuable instruction was given, and many noble
sentiments expressed. The Primary Associa-
tions held their conference the next morning,
Mrs. Ellen C. Clawson presiding, which was
well attended, and in the afternoon the Y. L.
M. I. A. held theirs, Mrs. Mary A. Freeze pre-
siding. Brief minutes of each of these meetings
will appear in our next issue.
	Primary meeting, held in the 13th Ward
Assembly Rooms, Nov. 13th, 1884. Mrs. Lydia
Ann Wells presiding. Bishop M. Atwood and
Counselors present, also Prest. Ellen C. Clawson,
Prest. Rachel R. Grant and Sister R. C. Atwood.
After the usual opening exercises the minutes
were read and accepted; then Pres. Wells excused
herself from giving the address she was appoint-
ed to give on account of the length of the pro-
gramme, and wishing to hear remarks from the
visitors. The programme was carried out as fol-
lows: Bernies Johnson, Recitation; Lillie Burt,
Song; Lottie D. Goforth, Recitation; May B.
Bythe, Select Reading; Lide Stromburg, Song;
Meta Peterson and Maude Andersen, Dialogue;
Annie Stromburg, Organ Solo; Malcolm Batler,
Select Reading; Bible Questions asked, and
answered by the children.
	Sister Clawson gave some excellent advice, also
Sister Atwood made some remarks calculated
to encourage, and was followed by the Bishop,
who spoke upon the order of organizing Primary
Associations, and gave fatherly advice. His re-
marks were excellent.
	Counselor N. M. Empy made some good re-
marks, after which the resignation of Miss Mary
Ann Hanks was presented and accepted, and a
vote of thanks tendered her for her faithful and
diligent labors in the Association for several
years past.
	The organization not having been entirely
complete since the resignation of Miss Georgie
Spencer, last spring, Mrs. Susan Stringam was
appointed as First Counselor to the President,
Miss Kate Wells as Second Counselor and Miss
Annie Thomas as as Assistant Counselor. These
sisters were elected by unamimous vote. Miss
Matilda Mortenson was appointed to the office
of Secretary and Miss Nellie Goddard as Assist-
ant Secretary. These nominations were also
sustained by vote. The officers were then set
apart by the Bishop and his Counselors, after
which the programme was read for the next
meeting. Singing, "Love at Home." Benedic-
tion by Counselor Francis Platte.


