[Vol54 | March 1967 | Page 180 | General Feature | The Home Inside and Out Oh, Remember! Remember! Rose | A. Openshaw]
[The Home Inside and Out Oh, Remember! Remember! Rose A. Openshaw]

To be dependable is far more to be desired than all the treasures of the orient, for without it we are nothing, and we will be so regarded as soon as it is discovered. People will want to sever all connections with us, and we will be cast adrift without friends or followers. No one will fellowship us, and why? Because if people cannot depend on us or our word or promise, they will regard us as a bag of sand that pours out in all directions—having no firmness, no stamina or backbone—nothing to cling to—nothing to rely on whatever! If we agree to do something, we must do it at all costs, no matter what effort or sacrifice or price is involved. If something should occur to render it absolutely impossible to make our word good on a particular occasion, we must get in touch with those with whom the agreement was made, immediately, explaining the situation, and assuring them it will be attended to at the earliest possible moment. Then nothing must keep us from fulfilling that promise. Otherwise, we have forfeited our good name, and with it, the admiration and respect of friends. And to live a full and happy life, it is absolutely essential that we have the respect and approval of both God and man! Oh, remember! Remember! —_ a Ny. Ms, " ¥ ie ~.. ¥ FOOTHILLS IN SPRING 7 ¥ pe yee Ethel Jacobson Ved am see What can: I-call you, hills,: But. _jocund—where lark song spills "; And feathery branches fan ie 'Against this cloudless span ee a Of. 'hyacinth blue? Yas, 'What. Hise. 'where jonquil laughter rings " Anda hidden waterfall sings? - Doves coo, « aaa Rabbits kick up their heels, I= =: And. A sweet thunder steals. Eel ~_ From root to sunlit crown till each out-reaching bough ane. Is transfigured now Ss - -" = es a thousand lilting petals. ° i *" on a ey" z ~ A jaunty robi ' settles I te ' On ane, limb. - ' Noisily,, in "the pond,. Young raccoons splash 'and swim. Wh a ere And. "everywhere is the "green excitement of grasses ma = _ - Up every. Slope and cranny, while.. From - -wide- -arching — = — ie Oaks come squirrel talk and-tree- -frog - -trills. Tm >. What.. Can, these hills. Be. 'but joyful— _ al. \ sO ee and ee innocent, as when tk the toe A > Aaghy SEB cre SS san ANS On Fae Sages SOC is — ~ = i 4 am * ¢ ade 1 a «- Re SE, Ss a ye, 3" HS Ramona W. Cannon Mrs. Imelda Marcos, the beautiful and graceful First Lady of the Philippines, made an excellent impression on her recent visit to the United States with President Fernando Marcos, and also as hostess at the Manila summit conference of six allied anti-Communist Asian nations and the United States. With her lovely soprano voice, she sang old Philippine music at the party which followed the conference. Geraldine Page gave a sensitive and sympathetic interpretation of Xantippe, the supposedly ever-nagging wife of Greek philosopher Socrates, in the beautifullly written and produced Hallmark television drama, Barefoot in "Athens. Clementine Paddleford, much-admired columnist and food specialist for magazines and newspapers, in offering her annual advice to homemakers, emphasizes the commonsense and good judgment which women should remember to exercise in such matters as budgeting the food dollar, thinking of cooking as a creative art, taking pride in accomplishments as a cook, varying the menu, trying new recipes, becoming acquainted with the possibilities of herbs. She advises the homemaker to try to use more varieties of vegetables instead of only a few, and to be imaginative and resourceful in making use of less expensive foods. "There is no better place than home to enjoy those we love best,"' she says. "With friends, food, and candlelight, what more is there to ask?" Mrs. Izzy Horrowitz of Shreveport, Louisiana, is president of the Toy Manufacturers of the United States, Inc., the first woman to be president of the association. She has had much personal experience with toys and children. "! L am a wife and mother first," she says, ''then a businesswoman. I believe a woman can have a special entree and esprit with mothers.'' She holds the opinion that toys will continue to become more scientific and more realistic, and that there will be a greater development of games and other items for family participation. JoAnn Zimmerman, a former student at Bryn Mawr College, now twentyseven years old, is president of a large contracting firm in Ohio, a_ position which came to her following the death of her father. She is rapidly learning many phases of engineering and business management.