[Column 1]

	Prayer was offered by Counselor B. W. Smith.
Continued by singing,

"School thy feelings, O, my brother, &c."

	Sister Zina D. H. Young remarked when giv-
ing out the hymn, that in this case it should be
"School thy feelings O, my sister. A synopsis of
the minutes of the last April Conference were
read by E. B. Wells, Cor. Sec'y., and accepted
by the assembly. Pres. Zina D. H. Young wel-
comed the congregation in the most kindly man-
ner and spoke a few words suggestive of what
was expected of the Relief Society. She then
called upon the Presidents of Stake organizations
to make brief reports not to exceed five minutes
each. Pres. Anna Ivins, St. George Stake was
the first speaker, thought the sisters were doing
well and had good desires though the attendance
was not so good as it ought to be, they had not
many poor; the settlements in their stake re-
quired much time to visit on account of  long
distances.
	Pres. Lydia Rich, Morgan Stake, gave a good
report, some sisters were ever ready in all good
works, they hold conferences quarterly and an-
nual meetings in each branch, felt they were do-
ing a good work.
	Pres. Temperance Hinckley, Bannock Stake
had visited this year and thought in that new
country they were improving, realized the import-
ance of the labor.
	Pres. Julia Lindsay, Bear Lake Stake made an
excellent report of what had been accomplished
there, and mentioned that the new region of Star
Valley which was included in their Stake was a
long way off yet had not been neglected.
	Pres. Harriet Bunting, Kanab Stake spoke of
the long distance they were away from the lead-
ing sisters, and  of the many reverses they had
experienced in the way of floods, that had
washed away their dams and improvements, and
the great changes these ravages had made, water
that used to be on the surface was now a hun-
dred feet deep". You may ask how the people
there maintain themselves, the sheep and stock
ranges are the principal resources. We call Long
Valley our Egypt; we go there for our grain. In
Orderville the sisters meet every third Thursday
in a Fast and Prayer meeting, they are 125 miles
from us. We feel that if we are poor in this
world's goods, we are rich in spirit."
	Pres. Barbara Myers, Panguitch Stake, "we
have twelve branches, our stake reaches over 200
miles there is one part where it would not be wis-
dom for us to travel without some of the brethren
we are trying to do the best we can and visit as
often as is practicable, we feel strong in testi-
mony."
	Pres. Susan Grant, Davis Stake, "we hold
quarterly conference, our brethren attend and are
of great assistance to us," &c.
	Coun. M. J. Hammond, San Juan Stake, said
we live four hundred miles away, we labor under
many disadvantages; we have this year met with
a great loss in the death of our President, Sister
Jane M. Walton.
	E. B. Wells read a letter from President Will-
mirth East, St. Joseph Stake, which was very in-
teresting  and stated that letters had been received
from Wasatch, Emery and Maricopa Stakes and
also made some brief explanations upon other
matters.
	Counselor Sage Jones, Parowan Stake, stated
that they were in a prosperous condition this
year had a great deal of grain and other things,
and bore a strong testimony, thought power was
increasing, &c.
	Pres. Mary Pitchforth, Juab Stake, was glad to
hear from all over this Territory and from other
Territories; since dividing Nephi into two wards
the Relief Society had increased in numbers, re-
joiced in her labors, held quarterly conferences,
and generally visited quarterly except Eureka
which was some distance away.

[Column 2]

	Pres. Adeline Barber, Cache Stake, we have
22 or 23 branches to visit; hold two conferences
a year, we try to hold district conferences or
meetings in remote parts of the Stake; those
who have had grain laid up have done good with
it; in the settlements they mostly have bins or
granaries. The Apostles visit the Stake with
us and Brother George Thatcher lets the sisters
who have not a place to store their grain have a
place in his mill, and will give it back bushel for
bushel when we want it. Excused the secretary
not having a written report on account of sick-
ness; spoke earnestly of the work for the dead.
	Pres. Olivia Widerborg, Box Elder Stake, the
President introduced her by saying she suc-
ceeded Harriet Snow who had often stood here
in her majesty, her husband's testimony on her
death bed was that she"had been faithful and true
in all thingsr" Sister Widerborg gave a good
report of the Stake etc., and spoke of the society
of Scandinavians, who had an emigration fund of
their own and had sent means and brought 42
poor sisters from the old country; said "we have
an excellent fire proof granary; and a good lot of
grain stored in it in good condition. We all feel
it is good to serve God, He has planted for us
the pearl of great price, may we all live for it."
	Counselor Jane S. Richards, President Relief
Society Weber Stake, said she was thankful for
the opportunity of coming to this Conference;
she had been all through the Conference in spirit
if not in body; "the duty of the Relief Society is
to take care of the sick and if the sick are in our
own house it is as much our duty to take care of
them." Spoke of her acquaintance with Sister
Hammond and many others of the good sisters
from a distance that had spoken during the morn-
ing; commended the brethren who had shown
her so much honor wherever she had traveled,
and in the Stake where she presided, said there is
no jealousy with us, no want of holding offices,
they are all humble; was sorry there was any
Stake where they couldn't hold conferences four
times a year, as that was President Young's
counsel and President Taylor and President
Woodruff had never said to the contrary; had
visited a number of the Stakes, every where the
brethren were kind and good; wanted to men-
tion Cassia Stake, "Sister Zina and myself went
to Kelton by train and the President of the Stake
came there to meet us; it took him two days to
come and two to return; we went with him to
Oakley where the Conference was held, traveled
there one way and came back again another way
in order to meet with the different branches of
the Society that are isolated, and we rejoiced in
the good feeling and spirit that prevailed. Presi-
dent Haight accompanied us upon our journey,
and we had an excellent time.
	President M. I Horne, Salt Lake Stake, felt
happy and pleased to hear those who came from
a distance, felt they were worthy to stand in the
positions they occupied, "example is more than
precept," the teachers in the Society should have
the spirit of God with them to comfort, encourage
and bless those whom they visit; she was glad
the Lord inspired Joseph the prophet to organize
the Relief Society; advised the sisters to hold
annual meetings, knew the results to be good;
the people will come to an annual meeting when
they could not come to regular meetings; the
sisters who are not in the Society make a grand
mistake in not becoming members; if mothers
are full of the spirit of God they will impart it to
their families, "I'm proud to say our sisters here
in this Stake are doing well, we have assisted in
emigrating some families;" made other excellent
remarks.
	Sister Louissa Jones, Sec. R. S. Beaver Stake,
said they had many calls made upon them, there
had been much sickness this season; they held
quarterly conferences, and annual meetings; we
have good times and the sisters generally are

[Column 3]

faithful and true as the sun, some who have their
names enrolled never come to a meeting, and
others never join, but there are always the few
who are on hand.
	Coun. Elizabeth B. Mitchell, R. S, Uintah
Stake, said their President was not present but
she gave a good report of the condition of that
scattered place; such a long distance away and
so far to travel that but few could come; they
were trying to keep up with the times and attend
to every duty.
	Coun. Marilla M. Daniels, R. S. Utah Stake,
said she had not expected to represent the Stake,
had been away in Manti, working in the Temple
for the dead, but knew that Pleasant Valley and
some other branches fartherest off had been
visited; had rejoiced during the Conference, there
was such an outpouring of the spirit of God in
our hearts; when the sisters can come from such
a long distance I feel that we are a host in our-
selves.
	Sister Horne gave a report of Sevier Stake
where she had visited and attended the Sisters
Conference,the sisters then were just starting out
on their regular visit up into the mountains.
	Pres. M. J. Atwood, R. S. Summit Stake spoke
of their branches in Wyoming, and that Pres.
Cluff went with them to visit there; last year
Sister Howard went and visited all the branches
with them, said they had emigrated some of the
poor with their means. "We have had several
Fairs and in this way raised money; have con-
tributed, $3,000 to the Stake Tabernacle, also
bought the pillars for the Tabernacle; the Y. L.
have helped some."
	Sister Eliza Whicker reported Millard Stake,
said their President was detained at home on ac-
count of sickness, at the last Conference they
had a very good time, all the branches had been
visited.
	Dr. R. B. Pratt Assistant Secretary read the
totals of the full report of the Relief Society.
	President Z. D. H. Young spoke tenderly in re-
membrance of Sister Eliza, her presence, and her
nobility, her great mind and grand work and said
when Pres. Woodruff says "go ahead and do as
you have done and as Sister Eliza did there
ought not to be a corner in the Territory where
there should be a wedge to break the union of
the sisters. Who are the mothers, who are to
train the statesmen; the mothers! Geo. Q.
Cannon was an orphan, he promised his mother
he would never taste liquor and he never has;
 emember this mothers, the training of a child
when young. To the mothers who are left alone
my heart goes out in pity to them, gather your
children around you, teach them, tell them Bible
stories, I've had seven of them on the bed at once
in the morning telling them stories out of the
Bible, true stories,and they would say "mother is
that true?" think of the impression, plant the
seeds of truth in them. We've got revelation
from heaven in our books, and a book hid in the
bowels of the earth,to come forth for us. Can we
come together too often? a book of remembrance
was kept of those who spoke often one to another.
Teach our daughters to pray and read the Scrip-
tures. Bishop Whitney spoke beautifully of
mothers administering; what it would save the
Elders; I wish you could all have heard him.
Humility and Obedience should be the watch-
words of the daughters of Zion. If I should never
speak to you again, remember your duties. O
how many there are who would give anything to
have some one say a comforting word to help
them.
	The saving of wheat is an important mat-
ter. When there is an organization and the Presi-
dent is chosen she should have something to say
in reference to her Counselors. Sisters when
you attend your meetings you do your work better
than when you neglect them; never speak ill of
your husbands or of the authorities of the Church;


it weakens our energies, weakens our power; the
Spirit of God makes this manifest in our hearts.
May you all take home a double interest in the
work of God. Sister Zina also spoke of the
necessity of sustaining the Hospital and also the
EXPONENT, thought agents should act efficiently
and see that we sustain our own paper, a circula-
ting medium, our only organ for the Relief
Society; felt she had much to say but was tres-
passing upon the time. Adjourned for six months.
Singing,

"O, my Father Thou that dwellest," &c.

	Benediction by Counselor B. W. Smith.


