			THE CHURCH.

	Concerning the official report of the Utah Com-
mission made to the Secretary of the Interior, in

[Column 3]

which they allege, "During the past year, not-
withstanding the 'manifesto,’ reports have been
received by the Commission of eighteen male per-
sons who, with an equal number of females, are
believed to have entered into polygamous marri-
ages, during the year,” we have to say, it is ut-
terly without foundation in truth. We repeat in
the most solemn manner the declaration made by
President Wilford Woodruff at our General Con-
ference held last October, that there have been
no plural marriages solemnized during the period
named.
	Polygamy or plural marriage has not been
taught, neither has there been given permission
to any person to enter into its practice, but on the
contrary, it has been strictly forbidden. 
						WILFORD WOODRUFF,
						GEORGE Q. CANNON,
						JOSEPH F. SMITH.
	First Presidency of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints.

	Apostle Moses Thatcher moved that we receive
endorse and adopt as true the statement of the
Presidency. Unanimously adopted.
	The Authorities of the Church were presented 
and unanimously sustained by the Conference,
Elder Jacob Gates, Patriarch Lorenzo Young,
and President Geo. Q. Cannon addressed the
congregation and closing remarks were made by 
		PRESIDENT WILFORD WOODRUFF,
	Before dismissing this Conference I want to say
that to me it has been the most interesting I have
ever attended,I have never bdfore seen the Latter-
day Saints as ready as on this occasion to spend
the same number of days together in listening to
the teachings and counsels of the servants of God. 
The Lord has said:“Whomsoever ye bless shall be
blessed and whomsoever ye curse shall be cursed.”
I never cursed anybody in my life,and I do not feel
like doing so now, for my heart is full of blessings
to the Latter-day Saints, to my Counselors, to the
twelve Apostles, to the Seventies, to the High
Priests, to the Elders, Teachers and Deacons, to
the Lower Priesthood—all our brethren and
sisters throughout the Church.
	I entertain the same sentiments as have been
expressed here by President Cannon toward those 
who are not of us religiously. There is a feeling
of friendliness toward us, I think, in these valleys
on the part of those outside of this Church; they
seem to feel in their hearts to give us those rights
and privileges which belong to us, under the laws
of God and man. Some of the judges have been
ready to receive our testimoy, our manifestoes
and have seen fit to give and administer righteous
judgment. All such men have my blessing and
prayers, and confidence. I feel that God will
bless them and all who perform their duties with
clemency in righteousness toward their fellow
men.
	The choir sang:
			Let the hills resound with song.
	The benediction was pronounced by President
Woodruff.
	Adjourned till April, 1892.
	The Conference was exceedingly interesting
throughout, and if the spirit of the teaching is
diffused throughout the valleys of the mountains
and the instructions carried out,great good to all
Israel will be the result, and faith and integrity be
increased among the people.


