advancement of woman.
	Article III. Sec. 1. The officers of this
Association shall be a president, three vice-
presidents, a secretary, corresponding secretary
and treasurer, with an executive committee of
not less than five, and two auditors. The
officers named in this section shall be nomi-
nated at the business session preceding the
annual convention. The three persons receiv-
ing the highest number of votes for any office
shall be considered the nominees of said con-
vention for such office.
	Sec. 2. The officers of this Association
with the executive committee shall elect an-
nually from the veterans of the cause, hon-
orary vice-presidents, who shall have all the
privileges of other vice-presidents, and whose
duty it shall be to advance the cause.
	Artical IV.—Sec. 1. the officers of this
association with the executive committee shall
have power to change, or amend the by-laws
and regulations at an executive session, and
such changes or amendment, shall be submitted
at the regular meeting where they may be
adopted by a majority vote.
	Sec. 2. They shall also devise plans of
work suited to the development and progress
of the association, and encourage young people
to speak, write essays, and discuss questions
upon political matters and civil government
and such other subjects as relate thereto.
	Article V.—Sec. 1. All county associa-
tions organized throughout Utah may become
auxiliary to this association by adopting this
constitution and that of the National Ameri-
can Woman Suffrage Association, and paying
annually their percentage specified in the basis
of representation.
	Sec. 2. The president of such association shall
be considered a vice president of the Utah Wo-
man Suffrage Association, and will be expected
to attend conventions, report progress, have a
voice in electing of officers, and entitled to all
the privileges pertaining thereto.
	Article VI. The names of the delegates to
the annual convention of the National Ameri-
can Woman Suffrage Association at Washing-
ton shall be nominated at the executive sessions
of the association, and be presented to the
annual convention, where they shall be elected
by a formal vote.
	Article VII.—All official papers and docu-
ments shall be signed by the President and
Secretary, or in the absence of the President
the Vice-President next in order. All official
correspondence must be signed by the chair-
man of the executive committee, or the presi-
dent and corresponding secretary.

