BY MARY CADWALADER JONES.

	The "railroad beds" are still unmade.
(A "railroad bed" is one that is unoccupied
during the day, and therefore as it were,
"shunted" and only rolled out at night. They
stand close together in the middle of the ward.)
Occasionally we have a convalescent patient
who can do this part of the work very well.
We had one in this ward last week, but alas,
for the frailty of human nature, she showed
a disposition to quarrel with the other patients
on very small pretexts, so she was dismissed.
With a rueful thought of what might have
been, I go to work at the beds. A patient
goes ahead and strips them for me. We work
with all our might, and they are finished at
ten minutes past nine. The side beds, too,
are nearly finished. This part of the work
necessarily takes much longer, as sick patients
have to be placed in chairs and wrapped up
in blankets, or, if they are too weak, lifted
into other beds, so that their own can be 
made.
	My next work is to take morning tempera-
tures; when I have finished this I see a large
tin can standing near my table. It contains
crackers, butter, eggs, and sugar. These
have to be put away in their proper place,
and the quantity noted. Now, I must write
my diet-sheet, and order the supplies necessary
for to-morrow. It is twenty-five minutes past
nine, the beds are all made, the stands in
order, the floor swept, and the table scrubbed.
The junior nurses are obout through with
washing faces and combing heads, and it is
now high time that I should make a round of
the ward and find out if there is any change in
the patients' condition to which the doctor's
attention should be called.
	While this has been going on the gruel and
milk have been standing on the table, and the
distribution of this falls to my share to-day
also, as I have no senior nurse. Each bed-
patient who cares for it is served with a
portion on a tray; afterward the walking
patients seat themselves at the table and take
theirs. Now the doctors come in to make
their morning visit, the house doctor is told of
any special complaints; he examines these
patients, also any new ones who may not
yet be under treatment, and leaves the new 
orders on my book.
	While doing this work all morning, I have
been trying to keep an eye on what my helpers
are doing, and now take this time to make a
thorough inspection of all parts of the ward,
bath-room included. In the meantime the
special diet has been divided among the
patients needing it most. At eleven o'clock
tonics are given out, afterwards eggnogs and
milk-punches are made and distributed.
	We now begin to breathe freely—the worst
pressure is over if we get no new patient.
Our hopes along that line are doomed to
disappointment, for the helpers from the
woman's bath-room now announce the arrival
of two new patients, and Miss W. disappears
to superintend their bathing.
	I am congratulating myself on not having a
"stretcher case" at any rate, when two men
come in with one. Miss A. quickly places
screens round a bed, and a rubber sheet over
the clean bedclothes. The woman is lifted on
the bed and her temperature, pulse etc. taken.
Her own clothes are soon removed, and a
warm sponge-bath given and hair combed.
These operations have effected a wonderful
change in her appearance, and she now looks
a little more like a Caucasian, whereas, be-
fore the bath, she might have belonged to
one of the darker races of mankind.
	The doctor is notified that there are three
new patients in the ward. It is twelve


