			CONFERENCE.

	The Sixty-second semi-annual Conference of
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints,
convened in the large Tabernacle in this City at
10 a. m., October 4, 1891. President Wilford
Woodruff presiding. The First Presidency of
the Church Wilford Woodruff, Geo. Q. Cannon
and Joseph F. Smith were all present which was
a source of great Joy to the assembled multitude.
Of the Apostles,President Lorenzo Snow, Frank-
lin D. Richards, John H. Smith, H. J. Grant, F.
M. Lyman, John W. Taylor, M. W. Merrill,
Anton H. Lund, A. H. Cannon occnpied seats
upon the stand. The congregation was very
large and attentive and the teachings were im-
pressive and inspiring.
	In the afternoon the house was crowded in
every part and there was also an overflow
meeting in the Assembly Hall; the speakers there
were Apostles H. J. Grant and A. H. Lund,
Bishop O. F. Whitney and Elder B. H. Roberts.
In the Tabernacle Pres. L. Snow, Apostle F. D.
Richards and Pres. Woodruff addressed the peo-
ple. The sacrament was administered and the
services were altogether of a nature calculated
to impress the vast congregation assembled there
with that solemnity that should characterize de-
votional exercises upon the Sabbath day. Presi-
dent Woodruff especially spoke with great power
and intense earnestness that found a response in
the heart of every true saint of God.
	The Conference continued to be specially in-
teresting and instructive throughout but the last
day (Tuesday) was a time ever to be-remembered
in the history of the Church, because of the re-
markable power manifest in the eloquent dis-
cources delivered and also the steps taken to re-
fute the misrepresentations made in the Report
of the Utah Commission in regard to the position
of our people.
	A committee was appointed in the morning
session of the Conference to draft resolutions ex-
pressing the views of the people assembled in
Conference, upon misrepresentations made con-
cerning matters in this community. In the after-
noon these resolutions were formally presented.
	The following were read by Hon. John T.
Caine:
			COMMITTEE REPORT
MISREPRESENTATIONS OF THE UTAH COMMISSION
				DENOUNCED.
	President Wilford Woodruff and members
of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints in General Conference assembled:
	Brethren and Sisters.--Your committee ap-
pointed to formulate an expression of the Con-
ference relative to certain statements made by

[Column 2]

the majority of the Utah Commission in their re-
port to the Secretary of the Interior for the year
1891, beg leave to report the accompanying Pre-
amble and Resolutions, and recommend their
adoption by the Conference.
		Very respectfully,
		John Clark,
		W. H. Rowe,
		Chas. W. Penrose,
		John T. Caine,
		Franklin S. Richards,
Salt Lake City, Oct. 6, 1891.
