	COLONIA DIAZ, MEXICO.
MRS. E. B. WELLS,
		DEAR SISTER:
	We have been very remiss in sending re-
ports of our Primary Association partly
through ignorance, not knowing where to send
to. Then again we have been considerably
out of doors, so to speak, here in our new
settlements of Mexico. As you are aware the
first public building erected is a school house.
Before we had such a building, we had a
school and a Primary Association and we met
under the trees. The Diaz ward Primary
Association was organized on the 4th day of
November 1886 by Apostle George Teasdale;
and since then we have held weekly meetings.
Our first organization was as follows, Sister
Nora Savage, President; with Teressa Leavitt,
1st and Domer Johnson, 2nd Counselors; Irena
Richardson, Secretary; Hannah Mortensen,
Assistant; and Maria Mortensen, Treasurer;
and about 39 members. In 1888 we had a
reorganization, and the following named sisters
were the officers—Teressa Leavitt, President;
with Sarah Gale as 1st and Domar Adams
2nd Counselors; Hannah Mortensen, Secretary;
Herra Johnson, Assistant, and Mary Ander-
son Treasurer, with about 90 members. In
May 1889 we were again reorganized with
Sister Sarah A. Gale, President; Nellie Gru-
well 1st and Roxy Wilson 2nd Counselors;
Millie Gruwell, Secretary; Lizzie Jorgensen,
Assistant; and Lizzie Mortensen, Treasurer;
and this is our organization today, with 147
members enrolled. We have held three fairs
which were very successful in point of de-
veloping the talents of the children, surpris-
ing for a new country. Our average attend-
ance is 75. Our programmes consist of reci-
tations, readings, dialogues, questions and
answers, testimonies, speeches and songs. The
funds we receive are used for the purchase of
necessary books, stationery and contributions,
having lately donated a handsome quilt to-
wards the building of our Academy.
	We send you these few items thinking per-
haps you might deem them worthy of a place
in the valuable columns of the EXPONENT,
which we regard as an important record of
all such events. For the future we purpose
sending proper semi-annual reports.
	Your sisters in the cause of truth.
			SARAH A. GALE, Pres.
