presents itself to the mind of thinking woman.
Is she a fit instrument for such a mighty work?
In what way could she, lone, unaided woman
effect the needful and welcome change. It
would take time, perhaps not in this genera-
tion could the grand consumnation be reached.
Has she patience, perseverance, fortitude and
all the necessary qualifications sufficient to
carry her through?  Let her read herself as
before stated, and become thoroughly ac-
quainted with woman; her ability, and re-
sources, before contemplating a work of such
vast magnitude, and for which she may be
utterly incapacitated.
	Woman in the beginning, when placed in
the garden of Eden, by her Creator to be a
helpmeet for man was in no way either physi-
cally or mentally the inferior of man. But
says man she transgressed the laws laid down
for them by their Maker, in partaking of the
forbidden fruit, she also tempted Adam to
partake of the same, thus being the first to
commit sin and to bring trouble into the world.
Very true, but the probability is if Adam had
tasted it first he would have kept the knowl-
edge to himself and have not offered to share
it with his companion.  Woman has always
since that time had the reputation of being of
an inquisitive nature.  And what is inquisi-
tiveness? but a thirst for knowledge, a desire
to find out something that will be of mutual
advantage to others, and the person immedi-
ately concerned. She wished to share that
which was good with her fellow creature
which is a credit to her, and certainly showed
her to be actuated solely by motives of a purely
unselfish and generous character.
	Woman is generally spoken of and univers-
ally acknowleged to be the weaker sex. 
That she is not mentally and intellectually is an un-
disputable fact, as the abundant literary pro-
ductions produced by women of the past and
present day go to show, some of them being
the most able historical works ever written,
requiring as much careful discrimination and
profound thought as could ever be conceived or
imagined in the brain and mind of her would
be superior, man.    As far as morals are con-
cerned, woman is decidedly in the advance.
One has only to read and observe that in all
criminal offences and of vice in all its various
forms and phases man practically takes the
lead.  It may be argued that woman is just
as corrupt only she does not happen to get
found out.  She denies that, but taking for
granted that it was so, it would go to show that
she possessed superior skill in planning and

[column 3]
devising, and a large amount of executive
ability, which if operated in the right direction
would produce great results.
	That women in civilized life is physically 
weaker than man is beyond a doubt, but that
she was ever created or designed to be so by
her Maker she fails to see; If there were a
difference it should be in her favor as she
has not only to nourish herself but others. 
That woman can endure prolonged labor pri-
vation of food and sleep, in most instances 
better than man has been particularly noticed
and referred to by physicians and others, and
there are living to-day quite as many aged 
and vigorous women who have been as active
and hardworking through life as men.
	The healthy woman is she who has some- 
thing to do, and who finds a reasonable amount
of enjoyment in so doing.   The weakly woman 
is either she who has very little else to do ex-
cept in helping others to make her pretty
things to wear, laces tight, compressing her 
body out of shape; eats everything which is
calculated to disagree with her, thus rendering
her dyspeptic, dances to excess, and outrages 
nature’s laws generally; and she who having 
to work twice as hard as a man, for a small
pittance barely sufficient to keep body and
soul together; or having a large family to take
care of and obtaining no sympathy from her
husband, is allowed to work unceasingly and
beyond her strength, thus destroying her
health, making room for disease, and at length
becomes a confirmed invalid.  This is woman's
fault to a great extent, and should be rectified
by her. 
It is a pretty idea, that of the sturdy oak
and clinging ivy, but is useless in the affairs of
practical and every day life.  Woman needs
something more than poetry, she finds she has
to face the stern realities of life just the same 
as man.  If she commits a crime she is 
punished as severely as man.  But if she per-
form a day’s work just as well, intelligently 
and conscientiously as man, she does not re-
ceive the same remuneration.  The lord of
creation has wrested her natural-born rights
from her under the pretence that she is not as 
competent in fulfilling a duty as man.  She is 
not considered capable of understanding or 
reasoning on such matters as politics and so
forth, and therefore deserves no voice in the 
same.  Man calls her his darling, his love and
his dear, which is all very pretty, but hardly
satisfying in these days when truth is rocked
to sleep, justice chloroformed and politicians 
will persist in viewing woman through green
spectacles.
Well, says man, what is it you require do
you want to sit in Congress, and all that sort
of thing?  No, woman craves no such thing
(although if she ever gets there it will be be-
cause she is fitted for that position.) She
simply asks for what ought to be voluntarily
extended to her, the right to vote, let her stay
at home, mind her own business, and attend 
to her household affairs.  Certainly, Sir, that 
is what she intends to do, but as one conscien-
tous gentleman remarked to a party of ladies,
“If a man cannot spare his wife for fifteen
minutes once in every six months to cast her
vote, he is not deserving of a wife at all."
Exactly, woman entirely coincides in that
opinion.  She is not likely to stop on the road 
to procure a drink of whiskey, neither could
her vote be bought for the same.  That
quarter of an hour would not be wasted


There would be no need of man losing his 
supper on that account, or the mending of
the children's stockings being postponed.  The
laws effect her just as much as they do him,
in fact they effect her more seriously.  Take 
for instance the condition of a widow at the 
decease of her husband,she can touch nothing,
she is not even the guardian of her own chil-
dren, without first requesting the favor of be-
ing allowed to become so.  But the tax card
drops in just the same.  Does the country
need better and more able politicians? De-
cidedly, men who will recognize and assign to 
woman that which belongs her.
*	*	*	*	*
	Let women improve the present time, the
moments are golden do not let them pass by
unheeded. Let woman educate herself, and 
cultivate her mental and intellectual faculties
to the fullest extent.  A healthy mind will
help to build up a healthy body, the two
working in harmony together will make of
woman what she ought to be.  Let her first
study herself, and having learned the alphabet
progress step by step, until she becomes versed
in all matters pertaining to the present and
future welfare of a great nation.  Then having
thoroughly learned the science of government
let her teach it to her sons and daughters, they 
in turn will impart to theirs.  By this means
the peerless and glorious constitution of
America will be preserved that a correct form
 of government be maintained.
	Let woman bestir herself and prove equal
to the emergency.  It is only when stern
necessity and matters requiring the greatest
expediency stare her in the face that she ever
renders herself conspicuous.  Man need not be 
afraid she will ever disgrace any privileges
which may be accorded to her, or usurp the
rights which properly belong to man.
	There is a grand reformation at hand, a great
future opening up before us.  The organiza-
tion of the Woman Suffrage Association was
an important step in the right direction.  The
men of Mormondom,(speaking of the majority)
are the only men on the face of the earth who
appreciate and estimate woman at her true
value.  The little stone which was cut out of the 
mountain without hands, has rolled forth, and 
will eventually fill the whole earth.  There is
something in the far distance which can only
be discerned by the eye of faith.  It is the
reformation not of a nation, but of the whole
world, the time spoken of in Holy Writ when
men shall beat their swords into ploughshares,
their spears into pruning hooks, when nation
shall not rise up against nation, neither shall
they learn war any more.  This is the grand
consummation of all things.  The opening up
of the Millenium in which one of the chief and
