[column 1]
		COMFORT FOR THE MOTHER.
	The following was written to Mrs. A. R. Shaw of Ogden
on the death of her infant son.
[Republished by request]
A flood of light the midnight filled
And every sound to silence stilled,
And right before the mother stood
A stranger, mighty, pure and good,
He looked into her anxious eyes
Watching the varying feelings rise,
And knew her soul’s calm, steadfast truth
And all her blameless life from youth;
Then answering her eyes of prayer
He opened one white hand, and there
Lay three rich jewels, Oh more bright
Than e’er had met her mortal sight.
And ere she yet could understand
He laid them in her trembling hand.
“Study their beauty well’’ spake he,

[column 2]
"They are thine for all eternity."
Lo! by their light new life began,
New thoughts through all her being ran,
While ecstacy thrilled through her frame
The stranger gently spoke her name,
 And as she raised to him her eyes
Took from her hands the precious prize,
"The Father sent these but to show—
What ’waits you while through life you go,
Safe in the keeping of His love
They shall be yours again, above.’’
Nor artist’s power nor poet’s spell
The words he taught could keep or tell, 
They went beyond the things of earth
To where the mysteries have birth;
Teaching why wrong and sin should grow
They took from sorrow half its woe,
Why the soul's idols turn to clay
And God’s own gifts are drawn away,
And how, though thorns bestrewed her path
Her soul its guardian angel hath.

Then, when the holy guest was gone
A lesser light came, it was dawn.
Like one alone yet fearing not—
Silence—with sacred meaning fraught,
God’s blessing seemed so near her there, 
Life’s dullest burdens seemed no care,
For that sweet sense filled all her soul,
And lightened, strengthened blessed the whole.
Was this life zealot’s faith, ideal?
No, by His blessing this was real,
Stripped of the curse by childlike faith.
Earth wounds pain less, no trials scathe;
And while the mortal still endures,
Through deeper tests still strength assures;
Just as the heart of His own Son
Bore suff'ring ’till his time was done,
Not for wrong doing but to prove
The soul God guards, naught else can move.

The days went on and oft she thought
Of the bright gems the stranger brought.
Smiling to know their light should shine
Her own ’mid splendors all divine,
And strove that outward grace to win
Worthy the grace of soul within;
Yet only half their meaning knew—
That splendors cast their shadows too.

Heaven remembered her and gave
The gift her riven heart had craved,
A babe, whose wondrous eyes revealed
Pure mysteries from earth concealed,
Their silent beauty almost speech,
Diviner truths and love to teach.
They led her soul 'mid earthly scenes
Forgetting earth, where—downward leans
The Unseen—so close to the veil 
It almost touches spirits frail,
Worn faint with trial, 'til the breath
Through joy or woe—is kissed by death— 
And there her soul heard other things
Just as the blind feel passing wings!
So, day by day they lived until
Life seemed so fitted to God’s will;
And prayer the sceptre; ’neath its sway
Real, grateful bliss filled each fair day.

Day hath its end, its night; souls too,
Have lost their sun of  life from view;
No hands that lift, no voice that calls
But vainly on the darkness falls
Until His hour. However lost
In sorrow's wild, His love hath crossed
The trackless waste, He knoweth where
The mourner kneeleth in despair.
O, mourning mother! Not alone 
Thy riven heart in sorrow’s moan,
Not bitter only, is thy lot,
Thou hast not been by heaven forgot;
No stain of earth had marred the name
Of that fair boy thy soul did claim,
No fault had dimmed those beauteous eyes,
Too bright were they for these dull skies;
Thy boys—lo—God hath taken them,
Thy jewels, thy soul’s diadem.

Remember her that mother pure,
Who didst the agony endure

[column 3]
On Calvary’s hill thou know'st in part
The anguish of her sacred heart.
Thrice blessed is that home wherein
The shad'wy wing of death hath been;
Thou hast had joy, possession, love,
Now, each of these, lifted above
Earth’s marring or its robbing, bear
Their witness to thy portion there
Where blessings past and present all
Upward ascending, ever call
The tireless sonl and wearied feet
With them before His throne to meet.

The sweetest voices earth hath known
Were those attuned to sorrow’s moan, 
And nearer sanctified are they,
Where grief hath washed in tears away
The idle thoughts of cloudless hours,
Forgetting how, for sins of ours
The only Sinless, bowed his head,
And worlds with Mary wept her dead.

Not wind and wave in furious storm,
Snatched from thine arms his precious form,
Not stealthy foe nor cruel flame
Thy lovely babe had power to claim,
Not blighted by long suffering
Ere the loosed soul its flight could wing—
Rejoice, O, mother! In thine arms
Death could not thrill him with alarms;
His last sweet words were unto thee,
Thine the last face his eyes could see,
Safe in our mountain home he sleeps;
While the wide world still onward keeps 
It’s headlong course of pride and wrong,
Warring ’gainst Truth with hatred strong—
O! better in that little grave,
With mission ended, spirit saved.
				Augusta Joyce Crocheron.
South Bountiful, June 13, 1889.


