W. S. A. SALT LAKE CO.

	The W. S. A. of Salt Lake Co., convened in
the 13th ward Assembly Rooms, Sep. 15 1891,
Pres. Elizabeth Howard in the chair. After
prayer was offered by Elizabeth Price, Mary
A. Freeze by request of the Pres. made a brief
speech in which she said that one of our
brethren had immortalized his name in her
estimation, by giving it as his opinion that a
husband and wife should constitute a firm
from which neither should draw funds without
the consent of the other. She believed also
in women jurors, and legislators, and thought
when the time came that woman should serve
in those positions, there would be a vast differ-
ence in the laws, and that the change would
be beneficial. Spoke in glowing terms of
praise of the noble women in the world, who
were in many respects, themselves blest with
happy homes, and surrounded with comfort,
but had raised their voices in behalf of all
womankind, and that we should accept with
grateful hearts, the benefits derived from their
untiring devotion to the cause of universal
suffrage.


Ardella W. Eardley read the first article of
the Consitution of the U. S.
	Margaret A. Caine read some extracts, and
Emily S. Richards read an excellent essay on
Democracy.
	Sarah M. Kimball said she had been much
interested in Mrs. Richard's very able article
on Democracy, but if either party soould offer
Woman Suffrage, and not advocate principles
which would be for the good of the nation, she
would not join that party. Her politics were,
police matrons, insane asylum matrons, women
superintendents of reform schools, and women
legislators. Said there were perhaps some wo-
men, who could work only in a very limited
sphere, if so let them work in that sphere, but
others could benefit society by their public
labors, and had the capacity to do so, let them
do it, all men had not the ability to perform
public duties, no more than all women, let
each one do all in their power for the good of
all. Said there would be a Convention held
next month, and thought that we would be
surprised to see the progress that had been
made in this work.
	The minutes of the last meeting were read
and approved. Elizabeth Mc'Farlane read an
article on Suffrage, by Ellen Jakeman. Pres.
Howard expressed her pleasure in the exercises
of the meeting, and announced that the meet-
ing was adjourned until the third Tuesday in
Oct. at the same time and place.
