	PREAMBLE AND RESOLUTIONS.
 
	Whereas the Utah Commission, with one ex
ception, in their report to the Secretary of the
Interior for 1891, have made many untruthful
statements concerning the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints and the attitude of its mem-
bers in relation to political affairs; and,
	Whereas, said report is an official document
and is likely to greatly prejudice people of the
nation against our Church and its members, and
it is therefore unwise to allow its erroneous state-
ments to pass unnoticed.
	Now therefore be it resolved by the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter day Saints in General Con-
ference assembled, that we deny most emphati-
cally the assertions of the Commission that the
Church dominates its members in political mat-
ters and that Church and State are united.
Whatever appearance there may have been in past
times of a union of Church and State, because
men holding ecclesiastical authority were elected
to civil office by popular vote, there is now no
foundation or excuse for the statement that
Church and State are united in Utah or that the
leaders of the Church dictate the members in
political matters; that no coercion or influence
whatever of an ecclesiastical nature has been ex-
ercised over us by our Church leaders in refer-
ence to which politcal party we shall join, and
that we have been and are perfectly free to unite
with any or no political party as we may individu-
ally elect; that the People’s Party has been en-
tirely and finally dissolved and that our fealty
henceforth will be to such national political party
as seems to us best suited to the purposes of Re-
publican government.
	Also, be it resolved that we do not believe
there have been any polygamous marriages
solemnized among the Latter-day Saints during
the period named by the Utah Commission; and
we denounce the statements which convey the
idea that such marriages have been contracted as
false and misleading, and that we protest against
the perversions of fact and principle and intent
contained in the report of the Commission, and
declare that the manifesto of President Woodruff
forbidding future plural marriages was adopted
at the last October Conference in all sincerity
and faith, and that we have every reason to be-
lieve that it has been carried out in letter and in
spirit; and all statements to the contrary are en-
tirely destitute of truth.
	And be it further resolved, That we appeal to
the press and people of this country to accept our
united declaration and protest, to give it publicity
and to aid in disseminating the truth, that false-
hood may be refuted and justice be done to, a
people continually maligned and almost univers-
ally misunderstood. And may God defend the
right.
	The preamble and resolutions were unani-
mously adopted by raising the right hand and
shouting aye.

Hon. John T. Caine read the following

