BASIS OF REPRESENTATION.
	Sec. 1. To comply with the constitution of
the National American Woman Suffrage Asso-
ciation and that of the Utah Association in
Article Five (5) ten cents per member is re-
quired to become auxiliary to the Utah Wo-
man Suffrage Association, and ten cents to be
forwarded to the National American Woman
Suffrage Association at Washington.
	Sec. 2. It shall be the duty of the treasurer
of each auxiliary association to send to the

[Column 2]

treasurer of the Utah Woman Suffrage Asso-
ciation at Salt Lake City, a list certified to by
its recording secretary of the members of said
organization, with their annual percentage be-
fore October 1st of each year.
	Sec. 3. The corresponding secretary shall
send to the auxiliary association notice before-
hand to prepare a report of work done by said
auxiliary, and a notice of the necessity that
said auxiliary shall send this and lists of
names and addresses of members to the treas-
urer of the Utah Woman Suffrage Association
before Otober 1st.
	Sec. 4. All officers of the Utah Woman
Suffrage Association shall be ex-officio dele-
gates at large, and every such officer shall be
entitled to vote in all business meetings of
county associations.
	The officers of this association with the ex-
ecutive board and chairman of the publishing
committee, shall constitute a standing com-
mittee to transact all business, and shall also
fill any vacancy that may occur in itself dur-
ing the interim of annual meetings.
	Adjourned till 2 p. m., to meet in con-
vention.

	The Woman Suffrage Association met at 2
o'clock October 3rd at the Fourteenth Ward
Assembly Hall according to adjournment.
	The minutes of the previous Convention held
in April 1891, were read and accepted.
	Reports being called for from the delegates
from the different counties, Elizabeth Howard
of Salt Lake County was the first to respond.
She stated that nearly two hundred members
were enrolled but that only a small portion of
them attended the meetings regularly also that
those few had given very efficient help.
	Joanna Patten of Utah County said there
were many good organizations in that county,
that two meetings were held per month at
which the Constitution of U. S. was studied.
	Mrs. Stanford of Weber County reported
that there were over two hundred members in
that county and that interesting meetings were
held all summer. Victor Hugo had said that
the nineteenth Century was the century for
women and she also felt confident the time
would soon come when women would be at
the front.
	Millard County was represented by M. A.
Y. Greenhalgh. Although it was but a small
county the members numbered over 300 peo-
ple, and there were local associations in all
the settlements except two. Spoke of the
efficient help given, not only by women but
men also, in sending her as delegate to Wash-
ington.
	Lucy A. Clark of Davis County said there
were four associations there and more to be
taken up. As in other counties they had
been making a study of Civil Government.
	Ellen Jakeman of Sanpete County although
not a delegate from there, gave some informa-
tion concerning the associations there.
	Morgan County was reported upon by E. C.
E. Francis. That being the smallest county
and the people very scattered, it was rather a
difficult matter to get the ladies together but
meetings were held quarterly in Morgan City.
	Emily Richards having been requested to
speak on the World's Fair, did so and ex-
horted those present to use their influence in
getting their sisters to send their best work.
Was too  much of a suffragist to pass by that
therefore she spoke a few words on
Woman Suffrage.
	Pres. Kimball also spoke a short time on
the World's Fair.
	On motion the Convention was adjourned
"sine die."
