BY MARY CADWALADER JONES.

	The "railroad beds" are still unmade.
(A "railroad bed" is one that is unoccupied
during the day, and therefore as it were,
"shunted" and only rolled out at night. They
stand close together in the middle of the ward.)
Occasionally we have a convalescent patient
who can do this part of the work very well.
We had one in this ward last week, but alas,
for the frailty of human nature, she showed
a disposition to quarrel with the other patients
on very small pretexts, so she was dismissed.
With a rueful thought of what might have
been, I go to work at the beds. A patient
goes ahead and strips them for me. We work
with all our might, and they are finished at
ten minutes past nine. The side beds, too,
are nearly finished. This part of the work
necessarily takes much longer, as sick patients
have to be placed in chairs and wrapped up
in blankets, or, if they are too weak, lifted
into other beds, so that their own can be 
made.
	My next work is to take morning tempera-
tures; when I have finished this I see a large
tin can standing near my table. It contains
crackers, butter, eggs, and sugar. These
have to be put away in their proper place,
and the quantity noted. Now, I must write
my diet-sheet, and order the supplies necessary
for to-morrow. It is twenty-five minutes past
nine, the beds are all made, the stands in
order, the floor swept, and the table scrubbed.
The junior nurses are obout through with
washing faces and combing heads, and it is
now high time that I should make a round of
the ward and find out if there is any change in
the patients' condition to which the doctor's
attention should be called.
	While this has been going on the gruel and
milk have been standing on the table, and the
distribution of this falls to my share to-day
also, as I have no senior nurse. Each bed-
patient who cares for it is served with a
portion on a tray; afterward the walking
patients seat themselves at the table and take
theirs. Now the doctors come in to make
their morning visit, the house doctor is told of
any special complaints; he examines these
patients, also any new ones who may not
yet be under treatment, and leaves the new 
orders on my book.
	While doing this work all morning, I have
been trying to keep an eye on what my helpers
are doing, and now take this time to make a
thorough inspection of all parts of the ward,
bath-room included. In the meantime the
special diet has been divided among the
patients needing it most. At eleven o'clock
tonics are given out, afterwards eggnogs and
milk-punches are made and distributed.
	We now begin to breathe freely—the worst
pressure is over if we get no new patient.
Our hopes along that line are doomed to
disappointment, for the helpers from the
woman's bath-room now announce the arrival
of two new patients, and Miss W. disappears
to superintend their bathing.
	I am congratulating myself on not having a
"stretcher case" at any rate, when two men
come in with one. Miss A. quickly places
screens round a bed, and a rubber sheet over
the clean bedclothes. The woman is lifted on
the bed and her temperature, pulse etc. taken.
Her own clothes are soon removed, and a
warm sponge-bath given and hair combed.
These operations have effected a wonderful
change in her appearance, and she now looks
a little more like a Caucasian, whereas, be-
fore the bath, she might have belonged to
one of the darker races of mankind.
	The doctor is notified that there are three
new patients in the ward. It is twelve


[Column 1]

o'clock; Miss A. and I go to dinner, and leave
Miss W. to superintend the patients meal,
and give out medicines afterward. We return
at one o'clock, and Miss W. goes, with the
right to remain off duty till four o'clock.
	The ward is now to be swept again and
put in order for the afternoon. This is
hardly accomplished when two huge bundles
of clothes are carried in, and in ten minntes
time two more. These have to be sorted
and counted. Before we proceed to the fold-
ing of them the afternoon milk and other
extras are given out. That done and the
table cleared, we fold the clothes as quickly
as we can. In due time this is finished, Miss
A. is making a poultice in the bath-room,
and I am putting the clothes in the closet,
when some one calls "Nurse, nurse!" I turn
to see where the sound comes from, and
notice several patients pointing to a bed in
the far corner of the ward. I hurry down
and find the patient's clothes saturated with
blood—a hemorrhage from the lungs. Screens
are immediately placed round the bed, cracked
ice given, and the doctor summoned. He
comes at once, the flow of blood seems to
have ceased, medicine is ordered, and the
doctor goes. The patient's clothes are now
changed very carefully, and she is made as
comfortable as possible. The screens are
just put away when another stretcher is
brought in, and Miss W. who has now re-
turned gives the usual treament.
	It is time for the afternoon tonics, and
eggnogs and punches are again distributed;
after this I take advantage of a few spare
minutes to enter the names and addresses of
patients in a book kept for the purpose.
Discharged patients are also marked off
	The patients have supper between half-
past four and five. At half-past five Miss A.
retires from the ward, the remaining time till
half-past seven being hers to rest.  In the 
meantime the doctor has been in and left a few
orders.
	The giving out of the evening medicines
falls to me, while Miss W. attends to the
patients' needs in other ways. If I had a
fourth nurse I might be relieved from duty;
but it cannot be thought of now. This is
the evening for carbolizing the side beds; the
helpers do this, while we follow and restore
things to order. The rest of the time till
half-past seven is spent in making patients
comfortable for the night, and writing down
new orders and notes on the patients' condi-
tion for the night nurse. We are quite
willing to deliver her the keys when she
comes in, and bid her good-night, while we
go home tired enough to sleep soundly."
	Charity Hospital, as I have said, has chiefly
chronic cases. The work in the accident or
emergency hospitals is somewhat different, as
will be seen by the following notes:
	Leaving the Island at 7  A. M., after
three quarters of an hour's ride in boat and
car, I reach Gouverneur Hospital. On my
arrival I receive from the night nurse both a
verbal and written account of all that has
happened of importance during the night—
arrival of new patients, serious symptons
which may have developed in certain cases,
new orders which have been given by the
doctor, or old ones which may have been
countermanded, etc.
	Then begins the work of the day. The
ward is thoroughly scrutinized, to discover
little things which the helpers are apt to do
slightingly, or not to do at all, stands are
dusted, clean covers and curtains put on; if
necessary; every patient and bed must under-
go thorough inspection.
	Everything is done as quickly as possible,
for the "visiting" may be looked for at any
time after 9 A. M., and it is the ambition of
each nurse to have her ward spotlessly clean.

[Column 2]

	I have six pneumonia cases, who are
poulticed regularly every three hours; they
are also kept on milk diet, and, of course,
require particular attention. I have just
finished putting on the last poultice when
the "visiting" comes in, followed by the
house surgeons, senior and junior. I ac-
company them to the different beds, ready to
receive all orders, and impart any information
which may be required of me. During the
rounds of the physicians, an ambulance call is
given; in due time the man is carried in on
a stretcher; I rush to prepare a bed, which
consists in turning down the covers, and
protecting the whole with a rubber sheet;
with the assistance of one of the helpers the
patient is placed in bed. It proves to be a
poisoning case. As quick as possible I get
ready pitchers of tepid water, a pail, and a
stomach-pump. The doctor then begins his
operations, and I stand near to assist him.
If the patient is very weak, I administer
stimulants hypodermically; an emetic is given.
Fortunately, the case has been attended to in
time, and is soon out of all immediate danger,
although very weak. A little boy has been
brought in with hand and wrist literally
pulverized; the poor little fellow's cries are 
heartrending; an anaesthetic is administered, I
carefully sponge the blood away from the
injured parts, get ready the different solutions,
gauzes, bandages, splints, etc., and stand
near to assist in any way that I can. (I took
care of the little boy for six weeks after that,
and he was seut home cured, having lost but
two fingers.)
	Standing by waiting his turn, is a stone-
cutter. He must have taken his thumb for a
stone, for he has simply hammered it off. The
compression of his lips and the pallor of his
face give evidence of the pain he is suffering.
A thin piece of skin on one side keeps the
thumb from being entirely severed from the
hand; the doctor replaces it and sews it on,
but eventually to save the hand it has to be
amputated.
	Fortunately there are no more accident
cases on hand and I am free once more to
attend to my other patients. I give out the
three-hour medicines, renew my poultices, and
take the temperature, pulse, and respiration
of the patient that came in about an hour
ago; but finding his temperature normal, I
let him remain seated until the doctor
comes in.
	After dinner I give out the noon medicines,
examine the beds of the helpless patients, and
find out from them if there is anything I can
do to add to their comfort. After attending
to their wants, and performing numberless
duties which it would be impossible for me
to relate, I finally feel satisfied that every
patient was comfortable; then I tear up
bandages, which are given to the convalescent
patients to roll; prepare solutions and different
kinds of gauzes to be used during operations;
in the meantime keeping a watchful eye on
all around, so that no patient shall suffer
from want of attention.
	About 4 P. M. I have to take the tempera-
ture, pulse, and respiration of each patient,
which, in  a ward where there are twenty,
takes quite a length of time. After the
temperatures are taken I see that each patient
has his supper, then write an account of all the
orders I have received, which are to be con-
tinued during the night, renew the poultices,
give out the medicines, see that the ward is
in perfect order, and am relieved at 6 P. M. by
the night nurse."


