THE ANNUAL TERRITORIAL FAIR.

	The annual Fair which closed on the 9th of this
month made a creditable showing of Utah pro-
ducts, manufactures etc., cattle, horses; and the
poultry of various kinds was remarkably fine,
and many awards were made to the producers,
and the stock raisers. All these departments
were well and carefully represented as also the
horticultural and flori-cultural departments, and
those interested in this work who carried off
prizes and premiums will no doubt make a more
successful showing another year, and others will
be stimulated to compete in excellence.
	The Art department consisting of painting,
drawing, etc., was to the writer the most attrac-
tive though perhaps not the most useful to the
Territory at large; the sculpture by Utah artists
deserves special mention, as it has been less cul-
tivated than some other branches; but Utah is
very proud of those who have attempted this
branch of work, and the representation of the
immense statue which is to be used on the cap-
stone of the East tower of the Temple, is indeed
a work of art and considering the subject and the
interest attached thereto by this people, one must
naturally feel that it should be perfection in every
detail. The statue of Brigham Young was as
true to life as any model of the kind could be and
that of Wilford Woodruff gives people an oppor-
tunity to judge for themselves whether it is like
the man himself. Surely there are young men
and women in Utah who should distinguish them-
selves in this line of artistic work. C. E. Dallin
should not carry off all the honors in the years to
come although today he stands at the head and
almost alone in this particular line of sculpture.
	In painting and drawing there were many clever
rivals, and the variety of pictures, sketches, portraits
landscapes, etc., were well worth a longer time
for exhibition. In fact one can scarcely do justice
to such a showing without being a veritable
connoisseur. It is supposable that the judges in
this department were, or at any rate they should
be thoroughly well qualified.
	The Educational department was not by any
means what it ought to have been for Utah, though
the showing of the Agricultural college at Logan
deserved praise, as also some others, Ogden
schools for instance, the Salt Lake schools as a
whole, and some work in particular, but to our
certain knowledge, much more could have been
done in this direction to good advantage.
	In the department of Woman's Work every-
thing seemed too crowded to show to advantage,
and it would be better in our humble opinion to
accord a little more room at another time; this
may seem selfish but being interested in the Utah
exhibit for the Chicago World's Fair in 1893—
we would have been glad to have seen more
showing of rare and tasteful work at the Utah
Fair; because we are sure there are many such
specimens of woman's work that  might have been
on exhibition.
	At another time we shall have more to say in
regard to both the Utah Exposition and the
World's Fair.


