Lesson Department Theology and Testimony Doctrine and Covenants (First Week in May) LittLE CHILDREN, THE SACRAMENT, AND THE SABBATH LESSON VIII 1. Little Children.

The disciples of Jesus came unto him in Galilee, saying: "Who is greatest in the kingdom of heaven?' Jesus called a little child unto him, and set him in the midst of them, and said: "Verily I say unto you, except ye be converted, and become as little children, ye shall not enter into the kingdom of heaven., Whosoever therefore shall humble himself, as this little child, the same is greatest in the kingdom of heaven.

And whoso shall receive one such little child in my name, receiveth me.

But whoso shall offend one of these little ones which believe in me, it were better for him that a millstone were hanged about his neck, and that he were drowned in the depth of the sea." (Matthew 18:1-6.) Z. Later when the Master returned to Judea, little children were brought unto him that he should put his hands on them and pray, and his disciples rebuked them that brought them.

But when Jesus saw this he was much displeased, and said unto them: "Suffer the little children to come unto me, and forbid them not; for of such is the kingdom of God.

Verily I say unto you, Whosoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a little child, he shall not enter therein.

And he took them up in his arms, put his hands upon them, aes blessed them." (Mark 10:14- 3). Infant Baptism.

Regardless of the love which Jesus thus expressed for little children, many early sectarian leaders espoused the doctrine that those who are without baptism are irretrievably lost and eternally damned.

While opinion concerning the severity of the punishment supposed to be meted out to such children has undergone some considerable modification within recent years, yet sectarian churches representing more than ninety percent of the world's Christian population are still baptizing infants.

It is a relief to turn from such a manifestly unfair practice to the heartening word of God to modern Israel.

In speaking of future judgments, the Lord said to the Prophet Joseph: "But, behold, I say unto you, that little children are redeemed from the foundation of the world through mine Only Begotten; Wherefore, they cannot sin, for power is not given unto Satan to tempt little children, until they begin to become accountable before me." (Doctrine and Covenants, 29: 46, 47.) The words of the Prophet Joseph delivered at Nauvoo on the occasion of the funeral service of the child of Mr. Windsor P. Lyon, are equally as explicit: "The doctrine of baptizing children, or sprinkling them, or they must welter in hell, is a doctrine not true, not supported by Holy Writ, and is not consistent with the character of God.

All children are redeemed by the blood of Jesus 180 Christ." (History of the Church, Vol. 4, p. 554.) 4. Proper Age for Baptism.

The time at which children become accountable before the Lord is also fixed by revelation, as follows: "For this shall be a law unto the inhabitants of Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized.

And _ their children shall be baptized for the remission of their sins when eight years old, and receive the laying on of the hands." (Doctrine and Covenants, 68:26, 27.) 5. That normal children of this age are prepared to form proper judgments, and therefore to know the difference between right and wrong, is attested by the widespread judicial practice of admitting their testimony in court procedure.

Infants, on the other hand, are not sufficiently developed to discriminate between right and wrong. 6. Responsibility of Parents.

The responsibility of parents for preparing their children for baptism into the Church is clearly set forth in the words of the Lord, as follows: "And again, inasmuch as parents have children in Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized, that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands, when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents." (Ibid. 68:25.) 7. Universality of the Requirement.

Shortly after the Church was organized, the question was raised by some who had previously been baptized whether they might be admitted to the Church without re-baptism.

The indispensability of baptism in the way prescribed and through the authority given by the Lord is plainly set forth: "Behold, I say unto you that all RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE old covenants have I caused to be done away in this thing; and this is a new and everlasting covenant, even that which was from the beginning.

Wherefore, although a man should be baptized an hundred times it availeth him nothing, for you cannot enter in at the strait gate by the law of Moses, neither by your dead works.

For it is because of your dead works that I have caused this last covenant and this church to be built up unto me, even as in days of old.

Wherefore, enter ye in at the gate, as I have commanded." (Ibid. 22:1-4.) 8. Sacrament of the Lord's Supper.

The sacrament of the Lord's Supper had its beginning on the night of the Feast of the Passover immediately preceding the Savior's crucifixion. 'At this time when Jesus and his disciples were together in an upper room, he broke bread, blessed it, and gave it to them, saying: "Take, eat; this is my body." He.

Also took the cup, blessed it, and gave it to them, saying: "Drink ye all of it: For this is my blood of the new testament, which is shed for many for the remission of sins."' (Matthew 26:27, 28.) 9, Sacramental Emblems.

During the dark ages of Christian history, understanding of the nature and purpose of the Sacrament was largely lost; some even claimed that its emblems, the bread and wine, actually and literally became the real flesh and blood of the Master.

It will be re- 'called that shortly after the church organization had been effected Joseph and his wife returned to their home at Harmony, Pennsylvania.

Of an experience that occurred a few months thereafter he says: "Early in the month of August Newel Knight and his wife paid us a visit.  As neither his wife nor mine had been as yet confirmed, it was proposed that we should confirm them, LESSON DEPARTMENT and partake together of the Sacrament, before he and his wife should leave us.

In order to prepare for this I set out to procure some wine for the occasion, but had gone only a short distance when I was met by a heavenly messenger, and received the following revelation." (History of the Church, Vol. I, p. 106.) 10. Following is an excerpt: "Listen to the voice of Jesus Christ, your Lord, your God, and your Redeemer, whose word is quick and powerful.

For, behold, I say unto you, that it mattereth not what ye shall eat or what ye shall drink when ye partake of the sacrament, if it so be that ye do it with an eye single to my glory?remembering unto the Father my body which was laid down for you, and my blood which was shed for the remission of your sins.

Wherefore, a commandment I give unto you, that you shall not purchase wine neither strong drink from your enemies; wherefore, you shall partake of none except it is made new among you." (Doctrine and Covenants, 27:1-4.) On this authority the Latter-day Saints use water in the Sacrament in the place of wine. 11. The duty of the Latter-day Saints with respect to the Sacrament is plainly set forth in the words of the Lord as follows: "It is expedient that the Church meet together often to partake of bread and wine in the remembrance of the Lord Jesus." (Ibid. 20:75.) 12. The Sacramental Prayers.

After this manner the elder or priest shall administer the Sacrament: "He shall kneel with the church and call upon the Father in solemn prayer, saying: O God, the Eternal Father, we ask thee in the name of thy Son, Jesus Christ, to bless and sanctify this bread to the souls of all those who partake of it, that they may eat 181 in remembrance of the body of thy Son, and witness unto thee, O God, the Eternal Father, that they are willing to take upon them the name of thy Son, and always remember him and keep his commandments which he has given them; that they may always have his Spirit to be with them.

Amen." (Ibid. 20:76, 77.) 13. It is recommended that students learn the above prayer by heart, also the one used in administering the water. (Verse 79.) It would also be well to ascertain the number of blessings and pledges entailed in each of these prayers. 14. Worthy Partakers of the Sacrament.

The Lord has warned the unworthy not to partake of the Sacrament, and has particularly instructed members of the Church who have trespassed to abstain until reconciliation has been made, for "Wherefore, whosoever shall eat this bread, and drink this cup of the Lord unworthily, shall be guilty of the body and the blood of the Lord.

But let a man examine himself, and so let him eat of that bread, and drink of that cup.

For he that eateth and drinketh unworthily, eateth and drinketh damnation to himself, not discerning the Lord's body.

For this cause many are weak and sickly among you, and many sleep." (I Cor. 12:27-30.) 15. Identity of the Lord's Day.

The following Biblical statements are unequivocal with respect to the identity of the Sabbath day: "And on the seventh day God ended his work which he had made; and he rested on the seventh day.

And God blessed the seventh day, and sanctified it; because that in it he had rested from all his work which God created and made." (Genesis 2:2, 3.) "Remember the Sabbath day, to keep it holy.

Six days shalt thou 182 labor, and do aH thy work: But the seventh day is the Sabbath of the Lord thy God: in it thou shalt not do any work, thou, nor thy son, nor thy daughter, thy manservant, nor thy maidservant, nor thy cattle, nor thy stranger that is within thy gates: For in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that in them is, and rested on the seventh day: wherefore the Lord blessed the Sabbath day, and hallowed it." (Exodus 20:8-11.) 16. It is generally admitted that Sunday is the first day of the week, rather than the seventh.

Moreover, it is the day upon which the Savior rose from the tomb (Matthew 28:1), and is therefore called the "Lord's Day." The Jewish people still hold to the ancient custom of observing sabbath on the seventh day of the week; this is also true of the Seventh Day Adventists.

Much criticism has been aimed by these people against the widespread Christian practice of observing sabbath on Sunday, rather than on Saturday. 17. Insofar as the Latter-day Saints are concerned this question is fully settled by modern revelation.

In a revelation given to the Prophet Joseph on the occasion of his first visit to Zion, Jackson County, Missouri, the Lord says: "And that thou mayest more fully keep thyself unspotted from the world, thou shalt go to the house of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE prayer and offer up thy sacraments upon my holy day; For verily this is a day appointed unto you to rest from your labors, and to pay thy devotions unto the Most High; Nevertheless thy vows shall be offered up in righteousness on all days and at all times; But remember that on this, the Lord's day, thou shalt offer thine oblations and thy sacraments unto the Most High, confessing thy sins unto thy brethren, and before the Lord.

And on this day thou shalt do none other thing, only let thy food be prepared with singleness of heart that thy fasting may be perfect, or, in other words, that thy joy may be full.

Verily, this is fasting and prayer, or, in other words, rejoicing and prayer." (Doctrine and Covenants 59:9-14.) Questions for Discussion and Review 1. Why do you regard the sectarian practice of baptizing little children as contrary to the spirit of the Gospel? 2. Why should parents be held responsible for the proper teaching of their children? 3. Justify our use of water instead of wine in the sacrament. 4. Have all members learn the two sacramental prayers. 5. Why do Latter-day Saints worship on Sunday instead of Saturday?