Social Service (Fourth Week in May) DEVELOPING INITIATIVE AND SELF-RELIANCE LESSON VIII Growth is a law of life.

It is biologically natural for a parent to protect and care for its young.

It is just as natural for a young person at adolescence to feel the urge for independence and self-guidance.

The progress and safety of civilization depends on the degree of efficiency with which youth develops the urge to self-guidance.

The aim of this lesson is to have parents realize the importance of the following points in child growth: 1. Independence and initiative are dependent upon general health and confidence. 2. Children will naturally assert this spirit of initiative but will need stimulation and guidance. 3. The development of independence does not suddenly bloom forth at adolescence but is gradual throughout childhood. 4, This growth can be thwarted by parents who do not reward its manifestations with pleasing approval. 5. Release of definite guidance is difficult for parents but is very necessary. 6. Parental control with child independence can be and should be exercised by teaching without making a child dependent, fearful and unassertive.

The lesson should be developed in such a way as will make these conclusions clear and emphatic.

Suggestions for Procedure: The teacher should introduce the subject in the preceding class period by reading to the class the statement of Secretary Ray Lyman Wilbur found on page 20 and the statement of Martha Van Rensselaer on page 38 of "White House Conference 1930." A similar challenge to study can be made by quoting a statement made by Judge Ben Lindsay several years ago to the effect that we spend too much time preparing the path of life for the child and not enough time preparing the child for the path of life.

With this as a challenge, go carefully over the reading guide so that the class members will appreciate the fact that the lesson is longer than usual but is a very interesting one.

The regular date for this lesson will follow the home study.

The first part of the period should be de- LESSON DEPARTMENT voted to drill on the material called for by the reading guide.

The remaining time should be spent by the teacher presenting the points suggested in the supplementary material and asking the class to interpret, evaluate, and illustrate the points.

It will be especially helpful if class members cite cases comparable to the statements made.

Class Members Reading Guide.

Growth, p. 31, Habits, pp. 3-7, Habits, pp. 25-31. I. Reread the paragraph studied in the previous lesson in Growth, p. 31. Notice especially the statement that independence begins early in life and should be encouraged.

Notice that there are no standards.

This fact requires that parents and teachers must be more thoughtful in developing this power in children.

Notice carefully the caution against the perpetuation of "cradle habits' and "emotional dependence." II.

From Habits?Chapter one, learn clearly the meaning and significance of "security" and "personal achievement" as fundamental needs of childhood.

Be able to show the relation of the following items to these basic needs: Economic welfare, p. 3. Protection of adults, p. 3. A responsibility in the group.

New experiences.

Opportunity for various forms of expression.

Worry or quarreling in the home.

Development of fears.

Teasing.

Unguided play.

III.

Turn to Habits, pages 25-31, and study the effects of various factors in the environment as they relate to the growth of independence.

Read hurriedly the discussion of facts which point out the problems.

Formulate an answer to these questions based on the issue raised on page 29, 191 Does training in independence remove parental teaching responsibility?

Must parents give facts and experience to the children?

How can good judgment in children be developed without parents doing the judging for them?

What should be done when children make wrong judgments so that the self-confidence of the children will not be destroyed?

Is the author correct in saying that "Tt is easier, and perhaps pleasanter, to direct children's activities, than it is to teach them to think and do for themselves?" Selection of food, use of money and willingness to perform required tasks are listed as fields in which independence should be developed.

Bring to class a list of at least six other activities in which the judgment, good sense, and individual responsibility of the young person are necessary.

Supplementary Material: 1. The importance of early teaching on the spirit of independence and conflict at adolescence.

"During childhood, social control is exerted in most instances by the adults with whom the child is in contact at home and at school.

In adolescence, there is a marked sub.

Serviency to the opinions characterizing companions of the same age.

If the social sanctions of the contemporaneous age-group conflict with the codes of the elders as embodied in the parents, the latter are likely to see their disapproval flouted in deference to the opinions of youth, "The suggestibility of youth is easily seen in the fads and fashions affected by the younger generation.

Always they must be in the mode of the moment as to clothing, sports and 192 slang.

There is almost a horror of dressing, acting or talking differently from other boys and girls.

"Thus, at adolescence, the boy or girl grows away from family standards and into those of the high school, college or place of work into which he or she has entered.

Very often it is only a superficial growing away, and although young companions are imitated in many respects, beneath the surface conformity, many of the earlier patterns of conduct and ideals remain intact.

The kisses and the lipstick of the two girls first quoted in the preceding paragraph, do not inevitably lead to the viewpoint of the last.

It takes deeper influences than these to preserve or destroy chastity, or any other behavior pattern which has been built into the personality securely, in the earlier stages of the socializing process.

The thing which parents do not understand is that ethical standards and emotional attitudes are developed through experiences more than through exhortations.'" (Blanchard: The Child and Society, pp. 243-45.) 2. Special problem of the girl in our modern world.

A. "The girl receives a greater share of disapproval from her elders than does a boy.

But some of this is a self-defensive clinging to standards with which the older generation is familiar.

Because of their maturity, they feel that a responsibility rests upon them to act as the guides and mentors of youth.

Unfortunately, they do not know how to make their advice applicable to the situations as they exist.

Many changes have been made in political and economic institutions, but the social institutions of marriage and the family are only beginning to feel the effects of these.

We cannot tell with certainty what will be expected of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE women in the future or for what destiny we should prepare the girl who is under our tutelage.

We try to: find reassurance for ourselves by insistence on the old regulations, in the hope of producing some semblance of stability in a day of fluctuating standards.'" (Blanchard: The Child and society, pp. 259-60.) B. Under the title "Daughters of Men" Elizabeth Harrison tells a beautiful story of a father who insisted that he and the girl's brother should carry all of the bundles.

The last scene in the little narrative tells of the father taking even the newspaper from the little girl and handing it to the boy.

As the father did this he remarked: "Girls must not carry bundles!

That is what brothers are for." Miss Harrison then makes the following comment: "As the train sped on I gazed out of the window, but I did not see the trees and pastures.

Instead, there passed before me a long procession? centuries long?of "daughters who must not carry bundles,' bending, sometimes breaking under the burdens which every true woman must sooner or later carry.

And I wondered when well-meaning, loving fathers would learn that a hot-house training is not the best training for their daughters, who must one day take part in the battles of life, or let their souls wither and die under the first chilling frost of adversity, or, perhaps, what is worse, far worse, through indolence grow callous and selfish and trample under foot the love and devotion which every true man brings to his bride, and unwittingly crush out this precious love, because she has never been trained to take responsibilities, and therefore does not know how to help him bear the burdens that must come sooner or later to all daughters as well as all, sons of men." (Harrison: Misun- LESSON DEPARTMENT derstood Children, pages 137-8.) 3. The effects of wrong types ol parental discipline are described in the following three paragraphs from Terman and Almack: The Hygiene of the School Child, pp. 337-8-9. Methods of discipline: "The hygiene of discipline plays no small part in psychoprophylaxis.

Nagging, arbitrary, or tyrannical parents and teachers either destroy the child's will or make it rebellious.

The unstable and whimsical child is often but the victim of a nervous mother.

The tyrannical, domineering father need not wonder when his son develops into a psychasthenic, weak, vacillating, and dependent upon others for guidance." Training in self-reliance and selfcontrol: ''Parental oversolicitude and excessive affection likewise tend to make the child dependent and to develop a mania for sympathy, the abnormal craving for love.

The love bonds of infancy should normally dissolve as the child reaches maturity and be replaced by a tie of somewhat different nature.

When this does not occur, when the relation of child to parent retains its infantile quality, the foundation is laid for a life of weakness and nervous invalidism.

How to free the child from the circle of parental influence, without endangering the mellower filial attachment which should succeed it, is one of the most important problems of child-training.

"Self-reliance does not grow up out of habits of dependence, nor does steadfastness develop out of uninhibited impulses." "The extreme suggestibility which marks the hysteria psychosis is best combated by a training which fosters, without overworking, the power of inhibition.

As Williams well says, let the child 'be taught not to strike, not to follow, not to jeer, not to give in, even though others do so.' Let him 'learn to take pride in being his own nan, and not a puppet in the hands of others.' The culture of rationality also helps, for the hysterical is first and last uncritical.

Whims and shallow impulsiveness do not thrive in the light of reason.

Hysteria will be less common when education, from the kindergarten to the university, has more of the scientific background.

Irrational prejudices can be combated by the same means.'" On this point a few sentences quoted from Faegre and Anderson: "Child Care and Training," will be stimulating: "In one family a child of three much enjoyed washing his hands when allowed to push his little stool in place, reach the soap, and turn on the faucet himself.

His father, thinking to save time, insisted when he was in charge that the nonsense ot the stool getting be omitted.

This meant the child had to stretch his little arms uncomfortably and could not have the fun of helping.

The time wasted in quieting a rebellious child more than offset what would have been spent in preparing for the 'rite,' which has also the advantage of teaching the child methodical habits which he enjoyed." (p. 160.) "If we want to build up courage we must show the child that we trust him." (p. 198.) "It is only by the actual facing of difficult situations that the child builds up a technique of handling them.

The child whose parents, for example, encourage her to dissolve into tears and seek their help in every difficulty is building up a type of response which will greatly handicap her in the ordinary rough and tumble of life." (p. 236.) ""Self-reliance cannot be taught too early.

From the time the six-months-old baby is left alone in a 194 room to amuse himself, to the time when the youth becomes self-supporting, he needs constant, exhilarating practice in being able to do for himself." (pp. 236-7.) "Early giving of responsibilities is very closely allied with self-reliance.

The growing child should never, of course, be subjected to heavy, routine work; drudgery in childhood does not lead to a happy attitude toward work later.

But the assignment of small regular duties should begin very early, while the child's interest in helping is keen.

If we wish to make an attitude of responsibility habitual, we must give pleasurable practice from an early age." (p. 237.) "Oversolicitous, overanxious parents often find themselves involved in trouble.

Two such parents spent a year going from clinic to clinic, seeking a physical basis for the behavior of their child, for it took them that long to conclude that she really was merely 'spoiled from over-attention,' as they had been told." (p. 243.) "Mothers often worry unnecessarily about the teasing that goes on among the children of a family.

While such behavior is hard on the mother, it has the effect eventually of forcing the individual to laugh at or ignore it." (p. 245.) "The danger that the child will suffer mistreatment at the hands of the others is no greater than that he will become flabby and spineless from never having to stand up for himself."" (p. 246.) 4, Analysis of problem children.

In Sayles: "The Problem Child at Home" are found many case studies worthy of consideration.

The fact that the lack of the proper methods of stimulating and developing self-reliance is a cause in such cases ls intimated in the following brief statements: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "One generalization only can be made regarding most of these children: they have received, during part or all of their lives, the too concentrated attention of their elders." (p. 16.) "Here, for example, is a mother of a four-year-old boy who is keeping him bound to her by continuing to perform for him a host of minor services?feeding, dressing, bathing ?which he should be learning to perform for himself; who is praising him extravagantly before his face and rushing to his aid when he quarrels with other children in a way that is rapidly turning him into the terror of the neighborhood." (p. 30.) "One other example of exaggerated parental love may perhaps be offered without straining too far the patience of the reader?that of a tenyear-old only son whose parents were about equally responsible for his spoiling.

Harold had never escaped from the bonds of infantile dependence on his mother; he could still hardly dress himself, and the task of getting him off to school in the morning was an almost impossible one, for he would insist on coming back time after time for one more kiss.

He demanded that his mother or father lie down with him at bed time, he sucked his thumb and wanted to be his mother's baby.

About family errands and school work alike he was utterly irresponsible." (pp. 34-5.) "Those who work with disordered lives, whether in clinics for children or in private practice or in agencies for adults, find numerous instances in which this pattern of parent-child relationships dominates the picture.

The boy of four who has no notion of feeding or dressing himself or of attempting to control his temper; the boy of fifteen who can't 'stick it out' at camp because he misses his mother LESSON DEPARTMENT so; the man of thirty who puts off his marriage from year to year because he can't leave his mother in loneliness?these, and hosts of other variants on the theme, are familiar figures to those who deal with ill-adjusted personalities." (p. 39.) The following quotation summarizes the author's positive suggestions: Pages 6-7 from Sayles: "The Problem Child at Home": "Gradually he must learn to hold his own in a larger world of which his home is only the center.

"It is this desire for growth, for freedom and opportunity to grow, which reveals the second great emotional need of the child, full satisfaction of which is to be gained only from and through his parents.

To many parents this need is less obvious than the need for security; if only they can keep their little boy or girl safe, and their own, they hardly think of the young man or woman in the making.

The child, if he be not granted freedom and opportunity in gradually increasing measure, may indeed eventually break away and grasp them for himself.

Unfortunately, the prize thus acquired will no longer be what it might have been; the youth, however loudly he may proclaim his independence and adulthood, will be marked by imma turities which he does not himself recognize and cannot shake off.

For growing up is a stage-to-stage process, and if he is held back at the earlier stages and then seeks to pass them at a single bound, he inevitably misses the practice along the way which would have fitted him little by 195 little to make intelligent use of each new experience encountered.

Security and freedom to grow, though sometimes they may thus interfere with one another, are not, however, necessarily antagonistic The child who is encouraged, as he emerges from infancy, to mingle with other children and to find a great part of his satisfaction in relations with them; who is given ample opportunity to handle and learn about things, to orient himself in the physical world and the world of ideas; who is taught to fight his own battles and encouraged to make his own plans: such a child will not be likely to suffer from over-security in his home life; the sympathy, counsel, and fellowship he receives there will rather be sources of strength.

It is only when such parental attentions are exaggerated and made to overshadow every other interest in his life that his growth is hampered by them." References: 1. Blanchard: The Child and Society, pp. 243-5. 2. Blanchard: The Child and Society, pp. 259-60, 3. Harrison: Misunderstood Children, pp. 137-8. 4. Terman and Almack: The Hygiene of the School Child, pp. 337, 8, 9. 5. Faegre and Anderson: Child Care and Training, pp. 160, 198, 236, 236-7, 237, 243, 245, 246. 6. Sayles: The Problem Child at Home, pp. 16, 30, 34-5, 39, 6-7. "Prohibition may not be operating ideally, but we have come a long way from the state of affairs in 1916 when almost four times as much money was squandered for liquor in this country as was spent on education, and more than twice as much as was expended by the national government."