Teachers Topic THE BEATITUDES Aim: To enable us to more fully appreciate the Beatitudes, and to apply their beautiful truths in our daily lives.

"Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake: for their's is the kingdom of heaven." By means of the Beatitudes, Christ fully explains who are fit to be the citizens of His kingdom.

His explanations are so clear that every one can understand them.

He sent out His servants to teach the world the principles of His great justice and love, and to warn against evil and injustice.

These same servants were attacked and persecuted, tortured in body, deprived of liberty and perhaps of life.

"Yea, and all that will live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution." Timothy 3:12. If this suffering is accepted cheerfully, in the knowledge that they were only humble instruments to carry His great message to others, they have a claim to enter the Kingdom which they have helped to establish through their faith and efforts.

Christ and all the prophets who have ever spoken upon the earth have been insulted of men, but their life and labors have not been forgotten by God, our Heavenly Father, and they will receive the reward granted to those who faithfully labor in His vineyard.

Joseph Smith, our beloved latterday prophet, gave up his life for the truth which had been given to him, and sealed his testimony with his blood.

"We are now in a day of trial to prove ourselves worthy or unworthy of the life which is to come.

Every calamity that can come upon mortal beings, will be suffered to come upon the few to prepare them to enjoy the presence of the Lord.

Let any people enjoy peace and quiet, unmolested, undisturbed, never be persecuted for their religion, and they are very likely to neglect their duty, to: become cold and indifferent, and lose faith. * * * Hatred and persecution have been the lot of every man holding the oracles of the Kingdom of Heaven, to deliver to the children of men that has ever lived upon the earth.

Wicked men, Satan, and all the powers of Hell and hate, are at war with every holy principle that God wishes to place in the possession of his children.

That is the true reason of the hatred and persecution meted out for us." (Discourses of Brigham Young.) "For it must need be, that there is an opposition in all things.

If not so righteousness could not be brought to pass, neither wickedness, neither holiness nor misery, neither good nor bad, etc." II Nephi 2:11. "Blessed are ye, when men shall revile you, and persecute you, and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely for my sake." "Rejoice and be exceeding glad: for great is your reward in heaven: for so persecuted they the prophets which were before you." References: Matthew 5:11-12. Luke 6:22-23-26. I Nephi 1:18-20. Mosiah XVII:1-13.  Literature THE DELIGHT OF GREAT Books (Third Week in May) HUCKLEBERRY FINN.

Mark TWAIN Behind every book is the man: behind every man is the race; and behind the race are the natural and social environments." The great original forces in American literature have preached the religion of democracy.

As the "Lincoln of our literature' Mark Twain freed it from the bondage of a literary brahminism and directed it into a new channel, that of recording its own national life.

The fame of Mark Twain, one of the foremost of American novelists, rests not upon the recognition given to him as a humorist, but upon the fact that through his works "Roughing It,' "Life on the Mississippi," "Tom Sawyer," "Huckleberry Finn," and ''Pudd'nhead Wilson," he became the most eloquent advocate of democracy of his age.

Mark Twain?Samuel Langhorne Clemens.

The story of Mark Twain, the ablest of American humorists, a novelist of first rank, an historian and a philosopher, is a romance in itself? the romance of a genius emerging from poverty and becoming a national literary hero.

John Clemens, a dreamer and an idealist, left Virginia with his young wife early in the twenties.

The Clemens family was one of the thou- - sands that yielded to the lure of the West in the hope of bettering themselves.

During their restless wandering over a period of ten years, six children were born to them.

Samuel, the fifth child, was born at Florida, a little hamlet not far from the Mississippi in Missouri.

The last move of the family was to Hannibal, "a loafing, down-at-the-heel, slave-holding, Mississippi town," about a hundred miles north of St. Louis on the west bank of the river.

John Clemens was a sombre man palsied by defeat.

Jane Clemens had married through temper after a quarrel with a young doctor of Lexington.

So Mark Twain was born in a loveless household.

We are told, "he did not remember ever having seen or heard his father laugh." The.

Mother was the backbone of the family.

Aunt Polly of "Tom Sawyer" iS a portrait of Jane Clemens, the embodiment of old-fashioned Calvinism, a madonna of the hairbrush punishing and forgiving alternately.

She was an inflexible believer in the traditional in behavior; yet she had a kind heart.

The alternate punishing and pleading had the inevitable result on the boy, Sam, he was in perpetual revolt against the traditions for which his mother stood.

He went to school with reluctance and remained with loathing; he feared God and dreaded Sunday-school.

The chief romance of the boyhood days was the River and its life.

By its side the boy became Tom Sawyer and found the forbidden playmate Huck Finn.

The tremendous Mississippi with its vastness and mystery was the maker of the Mark Twain of later years.

The death of his father in 1847 was the first crisis in the boy's life.

He was allowed to stop school, much to his satisfaction, and was apprenticed in a printing office.

This work later took him to many eastern cities LESSON DEPARTMENT including.

New York and Philadelphia.

Homesickness for the river, however, brought him back to the Mississippi.

Howard Bixby, the most famous of all Mississippi pilots, took Mark Twain as a cub pilot when he decided "to learn the river." The experiences of this period are vividly related in "Life on the Mississippi." The river became his training school in human understanding: "In that brief sharp schooling I got personally and familiarly acquainted with all the different types of human nature that are to be found in fiction, biography, or history.

When I find a well-drawn character in fiction or biography, I generally take a warm personal interest in him, for the reason that I have known him before?met him on the river." Mark Twain became a licensed and trusted river-pilot in charge cf his own boat.

Life drifted on smoothly and prosperously until the Civil War came and closed the river to commerce.

Reluctantly he left the profession he loved far better than any he followed later.

After a brief experience as a Confederate soldier Clemens went to his brother in Nevada.

He entered into the life of the West, prospecting for gold and participating in all manner of wild-cat schemes for getting rich quick.

It was a strange romantic life that of Virginia City, Nevada, in the boom days.

The gold that the riverpilot adventurer struck, however, was with his pen when he became reporter for the Virginia City "Enterprise." To his first journalistic contributions he attached the pen name of "Mark Twain," a river-pilot's term meaning "safe water." Later he became a newspaper reporter in San Francisco.

When Bret Harte became editor of the "Californian," Mark Twain was appointed to the staff, 185 and was "trimmed and trained and schooled" in the art of writing.

The story of "Jim Smiley and His Jumping Frog" in 1865 made Mark Twain's name known throughout the country.

In 1866 with fear and trembling he undertook 4 new role, that of a humorous lecturer.

It was an immediate and overwhelming success, and for the rest of his life he was sure of an enthusiastic audience whenever he appeared in public.

Mark Twain like Tom Sawyer loved the glare and trappings of leadership.

It was by the cap and bells he became known at home and abroad.

By and by these trappings were to be a millstone around his neck.

As the years passed he became deeply philosophical about life, and he suffered keenly when his seriousness was taken as buffoonery.

The next year he took an extended trip through Europe to Egypt and the Holy Land.

The literary result of this "picnic" was "The Innocents Abroad." Although humorous it is a frank and honest work, a real book of travel.

Mark Twain refused to rhapsodize over the sacred relics, landmarks, works of art, and historical associations unless he felt impressed.

The book was a tremendous success.

It was on the first momentous trip to Europe that Mark Twain met the young man whose sister, Olivia Langdon, he married three years later.

Olivia Langdon was the idol of a wealthy merchant of Elmira.

New York.

It was a strange combination this creature of strange barbaric force with outlandish manners and appearance united with an aristocratic invalid.

"Her life had been circumscribed," says Mr. Paine, "but she did not hesitate to undertake the task of polishing and purifying her companion.

She had no wish to des- 186 troy his personality, to make him over, but only to preserve his best, and she set about it in the right way ?gently." To do this instinctively she kept him a child.

"Youth" was the nickname she gave him.

Mark Twain accepted his wife's rule implicitly, and rejoiced and gloried in it.

His habitual swearing was repressed and only at long intervals he broke loose, an incorrigible naughty boy.

Gorki, the Russian novelist, never forgot the demonstration of the sacredness of marriage as he saw it in Mark Twain's home.

The next twenty years at Hartford, Connecticut, where he established his family, were happy fruitful years.

His success was so phenomenal that he wrote, "I am frightened at my prosperity." He lived in grand style.

There were always guests; the celebrities of the day were entertained with splendor.

"The Adventures of Tom Sawyer," "Life on the Mississippi," "Huckleberry Finn" are the products of this happy period.

In 1884 Mark Twain entered business, a partner in the publishing house that issued his books.

In 1895 the company failed.

When financial disaster came, as it had come to Scott, through no fault of his own, Mark Twain heroically assumed the debt Fe set out to earn the enormous amount, first by writing and later by a lecture tour of the world.

The chief literary works of this period are "The Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court" and "Joan of Arc." In "The Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court" we find the author's philosophy of life, a believer in the present and the future of Democracy.

The past of Spencer and Scott with its glittering procession of knights and ladies had no charm for Mark Twain.

He felt rather with Hugo and Dickens the sufferings of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the common man under ecclesiastical and social overlordship.

From Aristophanes to the present humor has been the weapon of the conservative reformer; no one ever used it to better advantage than did Mark Twain.

The great spiritual romance in the life of this great romancer was his passion for Joan of Arc.

It began when as a boy he picked up in the street a scrap of paper containing the story of the life of the Maid of Orleans.

After many years of interest and research "Joan of Arc" was written portraying this great historical character with spiritual tenderness that will make it endure.

"T like it best of all my books, and it is the best," said its creator.

The latter years of his life were saddened by the death of his wife and three of his four daughters.

Much of the mellowness and refinement of later life was due to the influence of the wife he adored and the association with men like W. D. Howells and the Rev. Joseph Twitchell.

On his seventieth birthday his nation tendered him its homage.

In 1907 the University of Oxford conferred upon him?Mark Twain, whose schooling in the ragged rivertown had ended before he was twelve ?a Doctor's Degree.

On the day of this honor a London newspaper said, "The highest and the greatest in the land have joined eagerly in all forms of tribute to this untitled friend of all mankind.?He has won the hearts of Englishmen as no living writer has done." In the famous seventieth birthday speech Mark Twain said, "Three score years and ten, it is the spiritual statute of limitations.

You have served your term, well or less well, and you are mustered out." Mark Twain, the incarnate spirit of America was mustered out in 1910. The story of his life recorded by LESSON DEPARTMENT Albert Bigelow Paine as it was dictated is perhaps the best biographical work written in America.

To the completed autobiography Samuel Langhorne Clemens attached the following last statement: I will construct a text: What a wee little part of a person's life are his acts and his words!

His real life is led in his head, and is known to none but himself.

All day long, and every day, the mill of his brain is grinding, and his thoughts, not those other things, are his history.

His acts and his words are merely the visible, thin crust of his world, with its scattered snow summits and its vacant wastes of water?and they are so trifling a part of his bulk!

A mere skin enveloping it.

The mass of him is hidden?it and its volcanic fires that toss and boil, and never rest, night nor day.

These are his life, and they are not written, and cannot be written.

Every day would make a whole book of eighty thousand words?three hundred and sixty-five books a year.

Biographies are but the clothes and buttons of the man?the biography of the man himself cannot be written. ?M. T. To Mark Twain, the humorist, who wrote for the masses and made them laugh, the novelist, who caught the romance of a period of American life, the philosopher, who denounced social tyranny and pretense, many tributes have been paid: "One of the supreme novelists of the world." ?"One of the great writers of America's social history." ?'Huckleberry Finn' may be recognized by the next century as the great American novel for which the Wise Men of Literature have watched for so many years." The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn. ' "You don't know me without you 187 have read a book by the name of 'The Adventures of Tom Sawyer,' but that ain't no matter," says Huckleberry Finn as he opens his story.

"Tom Sawyer" is a faithful picture of boy life in a sleepy little Mississippi town.

Tom is a "smart" American boy, sophisticated, prudent, bossy.

After reading about Aunt Polly, the white-washing of the fence, Tom's school-boy love, Huck and the wart cure, the pirates island, we are agreed that the tale is the best boy story ever written.

It is, indeed nothing more than the stery of Mark Twain's own boyhood.

Huck Finn, the forbidden boy of Hannibal, was in reality Tom Blakenship, the son of the town drunkard.

Unwashed, illfed, unspoiled by convention, Huck was a genuine hero.

Tom is the creation of a clever literary artist, but only a genius could have created Huck, the delightful picaro.: Mark Twain at first intended the tale as a sequel to "The Adventures of Tom Sawyer." As the story grew, however, it became not an adventure but a confession, a passionate protest against the civilization of the period.

The novels are a reliable social record of American slavery.

While Mrs. Stowe in "Uncle Tom's Cabin" portrays abolition sentiment with burning enthusiasm, Mark Twain in his novels portrays slavery giving both points of view, the beautiful patriarchal side and the horrible side, the living dread of the negro that he would be sold down the river.

Huck tells his own story.

At the opening of the story he is under the "civilizing" guardianship of Widow Douglas, another Aunt Polly.

He must live to the sound of the bell, go to school, sleep indoors, have spelling lessons at night, and be generally respectable.

He would often slip out at night and sleep in the woods "to rest him," and when he got "uncommon" tired he played hookey from school.

The gang, Tom Sawyer, and Miss Watson's nigger, Jim, were his anchorage.

Then one night Huck's father returned.

He caught the boy and took him up the river to live in an old cabin.

Most of the days were comfortable enough smoking and fishing, with no books nor study.

But there were the days when the boy was locked in the cabin while the father went to the ferry to trade fish and game for whiskey.

The return of the druken father meant severe whippings and abuse for the boy.

Huck planned to escape when he could stand it no longer.

As this must be an escape forever, every detail was planned to give the appearance of death.

After getting out from a hole in the floor, the door was smashed and things generally spattered with blood from a wild pig.

Satisfied with the horrible effect, Huck started down the river in the canoe with a few supplies and a gun. 'At first the days were spent in hiding, and the nights paddling down the river.

By and by, curiosity led Huck to the ferry landings to hear the gossip of the day.

To his satisfaction he learned that his escape had given the desired impression.

He was free.

Day after day the river and its life provided romance and mystery for the young traveler.

Then came the findings of the camp-fire remains near his own camp.

In suspense he waited until it was safe to investigate.

There asleep he found Miss Watson's nigger, Jim.

"Well, you see, it 'uz dis way.

Ole missus?dat's Miss Watson?she pecks on me all de time, en treats me poorty rough, but she awluz said she wouldn't sell me down to Orleans.

But I noticed dey was a nigger trader roun' de place considerable lately, en RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE I begin to git oneasy. 'Well, one night I creeps to de do' pooty late, en de do' warn't quite shet, en I hear old missus tell de widder she gwyne to sell me down to Orleans, but she didn't want to, but she could git eight hund'd dollars for me, enit 'uz sich a big stack o' money she couldn't resis'. De widder she try to get het to say she wouldn't do it, but I never waited to hear de res'. I lit out mighty quick, I tell you." On they went.

Then the river began to rise covering the swamp and small islands.

All manner of queer things floated down the river.

One day a frame house floated by.

Into it, the adventurers scrambled in search of usable things.

Jim was the first to discover the body of a man, shot in the back.

The maneuverings of Jim to keep Huck from investigating the identity of the corpse are touched with pathos.

But more pathetic is the revelation that closes the story. _ "Doan' you 'member de house dat was floatin' down de river, en dey wuz a man in dah, kivered up, en I didn't let you come in?'?It was Huck's father.

The days were care-free ones for Huck.

Not so for Jim, there was always the dread of recapture with its inevitable punishment.

Then, too, was the longing for the wife and little ones left in Hannibal.

When Huck ventured ashore Jim stayed hidden in the canoe.

Capture seemed very near on one occasion when two men approached the camp.

Huck's quick wit saved the day by warning them to keep away from ''smallpox." Paddling along on the raft one night a river steamer suddenly loomed up, "like a black cloud with rows of glowworms round it." Jim went overboard on one side; Huck LESSON DEPARTMENT on the other.

Huck swam to shore, but Jim was missing.

Huck was taken in by the Grangerfords, members of a clan of aristocracy at feud with a neighboring family, the Shepherdsons.

It was a new experience fot Huck.

The men carried guns to church even, always alert for the enemy.

The story of this feud is one of the most impressive in all literature.

Huck sees a man shot at from behind a bush. 'Asking a reason for such action he is told: "He never done nothing to me.

I must kill him on account of the feud." It was Huck, however, that carried the notes that enabled Miss Sophia, a Grangerford, to elope with Harvey Shepherdson.

But the feud found Jim so all went on again.

Two or three days passed.

They came across "the Duke" and "the Dauphin," two of as great rogues as one could ever find in life or in fiction.

Their adventure was entertainment.

They tackled Shakespearean production, lectures on temperance, circus, dancing school, missionarying, mesmerizing, doctoring, and fortune-telling.

Huck became the advertising manager and enjoyed it immensely.

Then came the most daring exploit of all.

Hearing of the death of a wealthy slave owner and the expected arrival of brothers from England, "The Duke" and "the Dauphin" took the place of the English brothers of the dead man.

However, the relatives arrived and proved their identity before wealth, slaves, and land were disposed of by the rogues.

Even these picaresque experiences became too much for Huck.

The climax came when he found the rogues scheming to dispose of Jim.

One day Jim was missing.

Huck found out that Jim was being held for reward by a farmer, Mr. Phelps.

Now Huck was full of trouble, trou- 189 ble with his conscience.

He decided to write to Miss Watson, and tell her where to find Jim.

No, Jim was his friend.

"IT was a-trembling, because I'd got to decide, forever, betwixt two things, and I knowed it.

I studied a minute, sort of holding my breath, and then says to myself: "All right, then, I'll go to hell'? and tore it up." To protect Jim and stay near him, Huck left the rogues.

It was a strange chain of circumstances that brought Huck to be taken for Tom Sawyer by Mrs. Phelps.

Then came Tom on a visit and took the role of Sid.

Plans for Jim's escape were made and accomplished.

During the escape Tom's leg was seriously injured.

Aunt Polly was sent for: then all was revealed.

Jim went back to security as Miss Watson's nigger; Huck to the guardianship of Widow Douglas.

"The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn" is one of the books that has won a secure place in men's affections because it has portrayed human nature.

Because of the convincing realism of the narrative the book is placed with "Robinson Crusoe" in the realm of great fiction.

Suggestions for Study.

A. Materials. 1. The Delight of Great Books. ?Erskine. 2. The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn.?Twain. 3. Some Makers of American Fiction.?Phelps. 4. Autobiography of Twain.?Paine.

B. Projects. 1. Music: a. Negro Spirituals.

Z. Reading: Mark 190 a. Whitewashing the Fence.

B. Dialogue on French Language. 3. Review: a. Mark Twain as Tom Sawyer. 4. Discussion: a. What is Humor?

C. Method: 1. The material in the journal is RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE adequate if no other material 1: available. 2. Try to remember that this is not a lesson in literary criticism. 3. The "delight" of the book is the objective; therefore simplicity of presentation is the best approach.