[Vol31 | March 1944 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: Snow In The Wangsgaard]
4 ELIZA ROXEY SNOW Sketch Of My Life' ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH I WAS born in Becket, Berkshire Co., Mass. Jan. 21, 1804. My parents were of English descent?their ancestors were among the earliest settlers of New England. My father, Oliver Snow, was a native of Massachusetts?my mother, Rosetta L. Pettibone, of Connecticut.
In my early childhood, my parents moved to that section of the State of Ohio bordering on Lake Erie on the North, and the State of Pennsylvania on the East, known as the "Connecticut Western Reserve," where they purchased land, and settled in Mantua, Portage County.
I am the second of seven children?four daughters and three sons?all of whom were strictly disciplined to habits of temperance, honesty, and industry, and our parents extended to us the best educational facilities attainable at that time, without preference to either sex.
Although a farmer by occupation, my father performed much public business?officiating in several responsible positions, and, as I was ten years the senior of my eldest brother, so soon as I was competent, he employed me as Secretary in his Office. This experience has proved of great benefit to myself and to
The Relief Society General Board is pleased to be the first to publish "Sketch of My Life," an autobiography of Eliza R. Snow, prepared upon request of Mr. Hubert Howe Bancroft, American publisher and historian. This autobiography was completed in 1885. The original manuscript, written in the beautiful and legible handwriting of Eliza R. Snow, is now in the Bancroft Library, University of California, Berkeley, California. This valuable historical material is made available to Relief Society through courtesy of the Bancroft Library and LeRoi C. Snow, nephew of Eliza R. Snow. Mr. Snow first heard of this life sketch in the fall of 1943. Through his efforts, photostatic copies of the forty-nine large folio pages were obtained, together with publishing privileges. In submitting the manuscript to Relief Society, Mr. Snow included the following statement:
"During the early 80's, Mr. Hubert Howe Bancroft, the historian, spent considerable time in Salt Lake City gathering material for his great library. While here, he became well acquainted with my aunt, Eliza R. Snow, who assisted him in his work. Before leaving Utah, Mr. Bancroft asked Aunt Eliza to write a biographical sketch of her life to add to his collection. This she did, finishing it in 1885. I believe it is her only autobiographical sketch. Some of the most important experiences in her life are related exclusively in this sketch.
"Because of Aunt Eliza's close association with the Relief Society of the Church, I think it very fitting that this important manuscript be published in The Relief Society Magazine. I learned of its existence only very recently and am loaning a photostatic copy to the Relief Society General Board for its publication."
