(Continued from page 136) ?containing a house which accommodated two families: one part opportunely made a home for a widowed sister with two children? the other, I rented. This, like many other trivial events in human life, proved to be one of the little hinges on which events of immense weight occasionally turn. My brother Lorenzo' was in a Presbyterian College.
From his letters I learned that he was investigating their orthodoxy. At length he wrote me, saying, "If you have nothing better to offer than this, then good bye to all religions." I feared he was approaching the vortex of infidelity, and felt that the only rescue was in the unadulterated Gospel of Jesus Christ, and was anxious to induce him to come where he could see its workings and judge for himself. I wrote him he could have a home with my sister, if he would spend his College vacation with us. He came, and to improve the time he engaged in study under an efficient Hebrew Teacher,' who had opened a school for the benefit of the Saints in Kirtland, and while studying a dead language, he also studied the eternal principles of a living faith. He was baptized ?ordained an Elder, and is now [1885] one of the Twelve Apostles.
Although this belongs to my brother's history, I consider it one of the events of my life, inasmuch as he has been a great benefit to me, as well as having been energetically useful in the cause which I esteem dearer than my mortal life. (To be continued) (s) Fifth president of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (1898-1901). (6) Tuesday, 26 [January 1836] Mr. [Joshua] Seixas arrived from Hudson, to teach the Hebrew language, and I attended upon the organizing of the class, for the purpose of receiving lectures upon Hebrew grammar. His hours of instruction are from ten to eleven, a. M., and from two to three, p. M. His instruction pleased me much. I think he will be a help to the class in learning Hebrew.?Prophet Joseph Smith, D. H. C. Vol. II, pp. 385-386.. \ M-U-S-I-C he answer to PEACE choirs. Bands, orchestras.
Small curtailment NEIGHBORS and NATIONS by government but requirements can be supplied.
Orders filled promptly: write for catalogues and lists. Also Victor, Columbia and other well-known records. Not withstanding Government discontinuance of manufacture of pianos and band instruments. We have limited stocks.
Write for full information. DAYNES MUSIC CO. We solicit your patronage 47 So. Main St. Salt Lake City The answer to Peace and understanding between neighbors and nations is found in the Books of books. National Bibles Since 1963?At your Bookstore. FAT WELL! LIVE WELL! BE WELL! WOMEN ARE RESPONSIBLE! For the health and nourishment of the race.
Before and after birth, and throughout life everyone of us is at the mercy of a woman's knowledge and skill in the selection, preparation and serving of FOOD. We are made or ruined by woman's knowledge and skill or lack of it.
Women must not fail.
They will not, if they will read and apply Mrs. Leah D. Widtsoe's "HOW TO BE WELL" 576 pages filled with hundreds of delicious nourishing recipes and appetizing menus, based upon the newer knowledge of nutrition and inspired by the famous Latter-day Saint ''Word of Wisdom." Get this great book and give your loved ones a sound, long-time investment in the best of health insurance. "HOW TO BE WELL"... $2.00 DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44
East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City 10. Utah Publishers and Booksellers to the Church "THE BOOK CENTER OF THE INTERMOUNTAIN WEST" When Buying 
Mention Relief Society Magazine and UNDERSTAN DING between We specialize for churches and schools ?for vocal and instrumental solos, is secure as it is Sound. Mama?s and Daddy?s Dream for her Happy Future is secured by a beneficial policy BENEFICIAL Life Insurance Company HOME OFFICE??BENEFICIAL LIFE BUILDING SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH HEBER J. GRANT. PRESIDENT