[Vol31 | March 1944 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: The Soldier and His Department]
American troops already have seen action in areas where typhus infection is prevalent, and the record is excellent.
Every member of our armed forces who goes into typhus zones receives three injections of typhus
THE SOLDIER AND HIS HEALTH OVERSEAS 191 vaccine.
This was the preparation for our troops who went into Egypt and North Africa. Note: The typhus vaccine used for our forces is stated to be the most effective in the world. Comparison: The Germans are known to have a typhus vaccine, but it has been proved that German soldiers, on the North African front at least, are not effectively immunized; nor are the Germans believed to have the vaccine in general use as yet. Figures: Burma-India theaters of operation show only 1 case of typhus. In the Middle East: While our forces were quartered in Egypt, there was a serious typhus epidemic among the civilian population, with an officially reported total of 32,000 cases in the first six months of 1943.
There were 500 cases a week in Cairo alone during the peak of the epidemic. The death rate, as is usual with typhus, was about 50 "per cent. The U. S.
Army reported less than a score of cases and almost no deaths from typhus in the entire Middle East command during the same period. XI. In this war all inductees receive chest X-rays in their preliminary examination.
This is considered the best method of detecting incipient or early tuberculosis. It has eliminated nearly all cases of tuberculosis from the Anny. Comparison: Tuberculosis was a costly factor in the last war. It was first among all reasons for dismissal from the Army, causing almost 15 per cent of the disability discharges. XII. The prevalence of colds, pneumonia, and the common contagious diseases has been at about normal expected levels, but mortality due to these causes has been amazingly low. Prevention: Colds are prevented from spreading by segregation of the infected, adequate spacing of beds in barracks, and various other sanitary measures. Treatment: The sulfonamide drugs disarm many a killer, including pneumonia, which now has a fatality rate of only 4 per cent. Note: In the last war the influenza pandemic was responsible for in the neighborhood of 800,000 admissions to hospitals and for perhaps 25,000 deaths in addition to many deaths ascribed to pneumonia but brought on as a result of influenza infection.
With other respiratory diseases it caused about one-third of the total admissions for disease in 1918 and roughly 80 per cent of disease deaths. XIII. The Army's astoundingly good record on venereal disease during this war did not just happen. It is partly due to the vigorous programs of public health authorities and agencies concerned with venereal disease control, partly due to the Army's uncompromising and realistic attack on the problem. Cures: Sulfonamides are used for gonorrhea and cures run approximately 70 per cent in a period of ten days.
While the treatment for syphilis requires a longer period, new techniques to shorten the time for treatment are in the process of development. More Facts: The armed forces now accept inductees with uncomplicated cases of venereal diseases because of the high percentage of cures.
Since this group of infected inductees is eliminated from the overall figure, it can be said that less than 3 per cent of the personnel become infected with venereal disease in the course of a year. 
 ?MARCH 1944
Note: The Army's rate of infection was even higher in the last war, running at over 9 per cent in 1918...
Over go men a year out of 1000. XIV.
Psychoneurotic breakdowns are a problem in the present war, as they are in all wars. Causes: Military specialists have assigned many contributing factors to the increase of psychoneurotic breakdowns, not the least of which is the crescendo of noise and tension in modern warfare. The major cause seems to be, according to these experts, unusually prolonged exposure to combat conditions. Figures: A significant proportion of all casualties in combat are psychoneurotic. Definition: A psychoneurosis is the physical expression of mental conflict, and ls not a sign of cowardice. The soldier is torn between his desire to stay at his post, and his natural instinct to stay alive. In the face of extreme exhaustion this conflict may produce an acute anxiety state, paralysis or anesthesia, reactive depressions, from which the soldier may recover promptly with proper rest and care. Oo Sketch of My Life
