My Conversion to Work for the Dead Nina B. McKean I walked in desolation; on the plain. Whence came or whither bent, I could not tell. But all around, my spirit clouds hung low; 'And why was I alive? My weary voice. Implored. I only knew a vague and helpless fear Oppressed my heart, for nothing I could see. An aching restlessness more sharp than pain Still drove me ever farther on my way. I felt, as mayhap did the Rich Young Man, The law indeed J'd kept e'en from my youth; But I never had great wealth to give, And yet condemned I felt myself to be. What talents had I in a napkin laid? My mind I searched to find where lay the fault, T knew that imperfections strewed my backward path, Yet nothing seemed to bring such sorrow unto me. When to my aching eyes a vision came! Before my path a mighty prison stood, While around my neck was hung a tiny key Which long had hung and soiled my clothes with rust. The great gate of the outer walls unlocked By hands which held a greater key than mine, For me to open, one by one, the smaller cells And thereby let the captive spirits free. For long, long years I'd worn the key While through the pleasant ways my feet had trod, My talents were not for such work, I thought, Until my soul was brought in sorrow low. And still in protest rebel will cried out, 'Am I a locksmith called this work to do? Why should I search through endless cells? To find the door my little key will fit? Quick came to me the age-old voice, "Am I my brother's keeper?" Through my soul A cry rang out as on my garments white, Where rust had been, a crimson stain now spread. Swift flew my feet to fit to doors my key. B: My restlessness, now past, my only fear The time allotted was too short to open all the doors; My woe forgotten, I was filled with peace. And joy of joys, when opened cells I saw From out there trooped, oh happy sight? The kindred spirits I had known before: And knew them as the line which gave me birth. EDITORIAL  Motto?Charity Never Faileth  RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Business Manager - Jeannette A. Hype Assistant Manager - - - -Amy Brown LyMan Room 29, Bishop' Ss 'Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. IX SEPTEMBER, 1922.. No. 9 PRIESTHOOD Priesthood is Divine authority conferred on men, by which they are authorized to speak and officiate in the name of the Lord for the salvation of souls. Priestcraft is the assumption of Divine authority, by which men speak and officiate in the name of the Lord to their own condemnation and cursing. There are many churches in the world today, and there always have been, but whenever the Lord has had a Church upon earth, the authority therein was invariably represented by the Holy Priesthood. It was so in ancient times, and also in the meridian of time, as well as in modern time. The Lord is unchangeable and eternal, so likewise is the Priesthood which, we are told in the revelations, "continueth in the Church of God in all generations and is without beginning of days or end of years." The Priesthood is bestowed upon man by the laying on of hands, and not otherwise. Abraham, the Father of the Faithful, received it from Melchizedek, who received it through the lineage of his fathers back to Adam, who received it of God. Moses received it under the hands of his father-in-law, Jethro, who received it through the lineage of his fathers back to Esaias, who received it under the hand of God. Isaiah, Ezekiel, Jeremiah and the prophets of Israel, wrote and spoke as they were moved upon by the Holy Ghost under the power of the Priesthood. The Lord declared in a revelation to  Joseph, the Prophet, (Doc. & Cov., Sec. 84) that in the Priesthood, the power of Godliness is manifest and, "without the ordinances thereof and the authority of the Priesthood the power of Godliness is not manifest unto men in the flesh." Christ himself held the Priesthood for we are told by Paul, the apostle, that Jesus "was made an High Priest forever after the order of Melchizedek." Upon one occasion Jesus said to his apostles: "You have not chosen me, but I have chosen you, and ordained you." The apostles ordained others, and thus was Divine authority introduced into the Church of Christ. In the restoration of the gospel, in latter times, the Lord has not deviated from his usual way in dealing with men. The Father and Son appeared to Joseph Smith, the boy, and spoke to him; but this glorious manifestation was in no sense an authorization for him to organize the Church of Christ. Such authority could only come by the laying on of hands. Subsequent to the visitation of the Father and Son, John, the Baptist, appeared, and laying his hands upon Joseph and Oliver Cowdery, conferred upon them the Aaronic Priesthood. Still later, Peter, James and John, nner divine appointment, conferred upon them the Holy Melchizedek Priesthood. And thus they were empowered to speak and officiate in the name of the Lord in organizing and building up the Church of the Redeemer. The great and glorious blessing that goes with Priesthood is set forth in pointed but unmistakable language in Section 84, Doctrine and Covenants, as follows: "For whoso is faithful unto the obtaining these two Priesthoods of which I have spoken, and the magnifying their calling, are sanctified by the spirit unto the renewing of their bodies; "They become the sons of Moses and of Aaron and the seed of Abraham and the Church and kingdom, and the elect of God; "And also all they who receive this Priesthood receiveth me, saith the Lord; "For he that receiveth my servants receiveth me; "And he that receiveth me receiveth my Father; "And he that receiveth my Father, receiveth my Father's kingdom; therefore all that my fa her hath shall be given unto him; "And this is according to the oath and covenant which belongeth to the Priesthood. "Therefore, all those who receive the Priesthood, receive this oath and covenant of my Father, which he cannot break, neither can it be moved; "But whoso breaketh this covenant, after he hath received it, and altogether turneth therefrom, shall not have forgiveness of sins in this world nor in the world to come."  The faithful sisters of the Church of Christ will participate fully in the blessings of the Priesthood, through their husbands. So that, finally, if the man receives all things within the gift of the Father, and is exalted to a throne of power to reign as a king and priest of the Most High, it must needs be that the woman, also, must be exalted to sit by his side and reign with him as a queen and priestess. Such is the destiny of the Saints of God, and therein is the principle of marriage strongly emphasized. Those who enter into fulness of exaltation and glory must obtain this ae through the Priesthood, and marriage in the House of od. THE