LESSON III Literature. (Third Week in November) "ROCK OF AGES" F. A. Jones, in his book Famous Hymns and Their Authors. Suys: "The most popular hymn in the English language, according to the general consensus of opinion is 'Rock of Ages.'" This hvmn, justly admired by W. E. Gladstone, was translated into both Latin and Greek by him. Reverend Augustus Montague Toplady, author of Rock of Ages, was born at Farnham, Surrey, England, 1740. His father died in battle while the son, destined to distinction, was yet an infant. ? His mother is described by one writer as a woman of "'fine and forceful character.'"' The family lived in Ireland while Toplady was a youth, as a consequence of which he attended Trinity College, Dublin, being graduated from that institution in his young manhood. He wa sordained to the English ministry in 1762, and served therein. For about fourteen years. He later became minister of the Chapel of French Calvanists in London, but his constitution was feeble and his energies soon expended. He'died at thirty-eight in the year 1778. A letter written to the London Times, by Henry Wells, gives to the world this unique story relating to the composition to the words of the hymn. "Toplady," says Mr. Wells, "was one day GUIDE LESSONS _ 497 overtaken by a heavy thunderstorm in Burrington Coombe, on the edge of my property (Blagdon), a rocky glen running into the heart of the Mendip Range, and there, taking shelter between two massive pillars of our native limestone, he penned the hymn 'Rock of Ages cleft for me.'" This story has been questioned by some authorities; its truth we are not in a position to either affirm or deny, but we do know that within the year the New York Times has published in the pictorial pages of its Sunday issue, a picture of a huge rock of limestone with an immense rift in the center, surrounded by a large group of people from all over England who had made a pilgrimage to this spot because of its connection with the hymn "Rock of Ages;" consequently it matters very little whether it is authentic or not, the Christian world has evidently made up its mind to cling to this story as one of its precious traditions. The hymn has undergone rather exceptional revision. It has been revised, as to paragraph structure, and an unusual number of changes have been made in its diction. No one may be quite sure, when turning to the hymn, whether he will find it in four stanzas or three, but after examining ten hymnals, I have concluded that the three-stanza version has pretty generally taken the place of four stanza version. We submit both versions (the original form is four stanzas): Rock of Ages, cleft for me, Let me hide myself in thee: Let the wat?rs and the blood, From the riven side that flowed, Be of sin the double cure? Cleanse me from its guilt and power. Not the labor of my hands Can fulfil thy laws demands; Could my zeal no respite know, a? Could my tears forever flow, ) All for sin could not atone;.. Thou must save, and thou alone. Nothing in my hand I bring; Simp'y to thy cross I cling; Naked, come to thee for dress; Helpless, look to thee for grace; Vile, I to the fountain fly; Wash me, Savior, or I die. While I draw this fleeting breath, When my eyes shall close in death, When I rise to worlds unknown, And behold. Thee on thy throne, Rock of Ages, cleft for me; Let me hide myself in thee.  The three stanza version is as follows: Rock of Ages, cleft for me, Let me hide myself in thee: Let the water and the blood, From thy wounded side_which flow'd, Be of sin the double cure, Save from wrath and make me pure. Could my tears forever flow, Could my zeal no languor know, These for sin could not atone; Thou must save, and thou alone: In my hand no price I bring, Simply to the cross I cling. While I draw this fleeting breath, When my eyes shall close in death, When I rise to worlds unknown And behold thee on thy throne, Rock of Ages, cleft for me, Let me hide myself in thee. The second stanza of the three stanza version, is a combination of the second and third stanzas of the four stanza version. Whether the story told by Wells is the real story of the inspiration of this hymn or not, it is very plausible. It would be natural for one who had just escaped death because of the prot-ction of two large pillars of stone to have his mind drawn out to the fact that Jesus is the Rock of Ages who will give protection to the soul and save us through all the storms of adversity and distress from spiritual death. This is the great thought of the hymn, coupled with the other thought that, were it not for the atonement, wrought by the Savior, we could not be saved. There is no doubt that some of the doctrines of the Calvanistic creed are discernible in the hymn; but on the whole, it is acceptable to all persons of Christian belief. The compilers of hymns for the use of Latter-day Saints have included it in their compilations. From a literary s andpoint, it is a gem of the first order. Nothing in the hymn is finer than the lines comparing the Christ to a Rock of Ages. If any one doubts, the poetic quality of this hymn he needs only compare it with a translation made by a native of East India, who has been successful in taking every vestige of poetry out. The East Indian, given the task of translating the hymn, writes: "Very old stone split for my benefit, Let me absent myself under one of your fragments." No proper study of this hymn can ignore the diction. It is  simple throughout and it carries the wonderful picture in a most effective manner. Note that the first line of the first stanza and the last line of the closing stanza repeat the well nigh matchless lines, "Rock of Ages, cleft for me, let me hide myself in thee." A line el'minated, which carried the message of the hymn is, "Other refuge have I none." The hymn fulfils the prime requisites of a hymn poem; it gives us exaltation of thought, exaltation of feeling, that is, religous and reverential in its character, and it casts all this exaltation of thought and feeling in form at once beautiful and effective. F. A. Jones calls it a hymn of passiontide; Mr. Benson puts "Rock of Ages" first in his list of hymns; Julian says, "No other English hymn can be named which has laid so broad and firm a grasp upon the English speaking world." Dr. Robinson declares it to be the first hymn of the first rank. Breed, in his volume entitled, Hymns and Hymn Tunes, says it is one of the four first hymns of Anglican hymnology. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Give as many reasons as you can call to mind why it is appropriate to compare Christ to a Rock of Ages. 2. What is the L. D. S. Belief in relation to the atonement? Is the author's idea in keeping with modern revelations when he asserts that there is no 'salvation for mankind save through the atonement of Christ? 3. Can the atonement save us apart from our own effort? Toplady puts some emphasis on this thought: We can not be saved without the atoning blood of Jesus Christ, but we cannot be saved with it, unless we do the works of the Christ. It is at just this point no doubt that the Calvanism of Toplady creeps in. 4, Weask for a second time in these lessons, what does the word Anglican mean? 5. What does Mr. Breed mean when he says that Rock of Ages is one of the four first of Anglican hymnology? 6. A few days ago a lady in New York, who is a descendant of the Pratt family, originally of Vermont, of the branch of the family who remained East, asked me which Pratt it was who made contributions to the L. D. S. Hymnal. Of what was she speaking when she asked this question? Of whom was she speaking when she asked this question? "I