[Vol45 | April 1958 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Fiction | Title: My | Author: Peterson]
[My Babies Blanche B. Peterson]

irst time. Always work on a table as much as possible and keep material flat. Pin seams together with absolute accuracy at top and bottom and at YOU CAN SEW—II MARKING, PINNING, AND BASTING 257 ~ oe.. "Sn we ~~ 7. — = ~~ — —— Sf " ~ Dine 7 ~ tee "Ss. Rd =~ t— — gut or ae aan rd = en a a, - ao" - a" Pad yw - oo" oe" ow oo ao" > ia CORRECT PROCEDURE FOR PINNING ON LONG SEAMS frequent intervals between. Put pins into material at right angles to the edge and on the seam line and they will not be in the way when stitching. Be extra careful of long seams and those on the bias. Under the sewing machine presser foot one edge pushes along more than the other. Extreme care ls needed to avoid having edges come out uneven. Whether you pin and baste or just pin, depends on the type of material being sewed as well as the ability of the scamstress. Napped fabrics like velvet and velveteen crawl when being sewn. Sheers like chiffon stretch and slip. All of these materials need more basting than those with a firm weave and flat surface. Basting, for most women, is a slow, unattractive process. But it can be speeded up in many cases by using the machine instead of doing it by hand. It is done by using the longest stitch on the sewing machine and sewing together, on the machine, the pieces to be basted after accurately pinning them in place. 'This is useful, not only to hold pieces together for fitting, etc., but also for marking. When machine basting is used for marking, have thread of a contrasting color to show up plainly. When 258 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1958 Le adie BASTING PROCEDURES (from top to bottom) 1. Hand basting, before fitting. Short, "4 inch stitches. 2. Hand basting for marking, long and short stitches. 3. Diagonal basting, for interfacing and skirt linings. 4. Machine basting, using the longest stitch on the sewing machine. Basting for fitting, matching thread may be used. Then if no alterations are necessary, the basting thread may be left in or not as desired. If left in, the regular machine stitching ls done over it. In basting long seams preparatory to fitting dresses, machine basting is ideal. It is not only very quick, but holds the pieces together firmly to insure accuracy. If hand basting is used, care must be taken to have stitches close enough to hold sections together tightly. Always remove bastings in short pieces by cutting thread at frequent intervals. This will avoid much wear and tear on cloth.