[Vol45 | April 1958 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Pearle | Author: Bay]
Pearle MN. Olsen Appointed to General Board Josie B. Bay Member, General Board of Relief Society February 19, 1958, Pearle Madsen Olsen was appointed ON a member of the General Board of Relief Society. Sister Olsen comes to the position highly qualified to act in this capacity, having served Relief Society as a theology class leader twelve years; social science class leader three years and, in 1942, she was called to serve as second counselor in the North Sanpete Stake Relief Society. One year later she became the stake Relief Society president where she served faithfully for six years. Of her Relief Society work Sister Olsen says, "Those were happy years filled with enriched experiences." Sister Olsen's philosophy — has always been to accept every opportunity which came to her to serve the Church. She served as a missionary in the California Mission, and has been a ward organist, genealogy and M. I. A. Teacher and counselor, and received an honorary Golden Gleaner award. Sister Olsen was born in Mount Pleasant, Utah, to John Krause Madsen and Etta Katherine Whitlock. Her mother died when she was two years old. Her father later married Virginia Whitlock, a sister of her mother, and due to her love, guidance, and spiritual influence, Pearle grew to maturity in active Church participation. In addition to her formal education, Sister Olsen also studied at the former McCune School of Music and Art. On November 12, 1924, she was married in the Salt Lake 'Temple to William Carlyle Olsen who had completed a mission in the Southern States. Brother Olsen is a former stake president of the North Sanpete Stake and is now a member of the Church building department. They are the parents of a son and two daughters: John K. M. Olsen, Billye Virginia (Mrs. E. G. Jenkins), and Elizabeth Carlyle (Mrs. Robert P. Morris). All of the children are actively identified with Church activities. There are five grandchildren. Sister Olsen is an exceedingly humble person with a sweet spirit and a contrite heart. She is a devoted wife and mother, self sacrificing, gentle and kind, and this gentle kindness has endeared her to her many friends and associates. Her many experiences, her desire to succeed, and her willingness to work, will make Sister Olsen a valued member of the General Board.