[Vol45 | April 1958 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Fiction | Title: Sixty]
[Sixty Years Ago]
C/rotn    I  Lear  and  QJc ar 
In  the  December  issue  of  the  Magazine 
was  a  very  fine  Christmas  story  by  Rosa 
Lee  Lloyd.  It  should  have  been  an  inspira- 
tion to  many  who  have  forgotten  the  true 
spirit  of  Christmas.  I  look  forward  to 
reading  Mrs.  Lloyd's  stories  because  they 
always  seem  to  have  such  a  real  lesson  in 
living  to  offer,  along  with  the  other  wel- 
come ideas  in  the  Magazine.  We  are 
former  Utahns  who  have  strayed  off  to 
Oregon,  and  the  Magazine  brings  us  back 
closer  to  home. 
— Mrs.  Betty  Payne 
Alsea,  Oregon 
I  enjoy  every  issue  of  The  Relief  '^ocitiy 
Magazine,  especially  the  poems  and  short 
stories.  The  article  ''Women,  Wonderful 
Women!"  by  Elder  Spencer  W.  Kimball, 
in  the  January  issue  is  very  good.  I  thank 
Mrs.  Elizabeth  Hogan,  Woods  Cross,  Utah, 
for  sending  the  Magazine  to  me.  I  have 
joined  the  Relief  Society.  I  am  ninety- 
four  years  old. 
— Mrs.  Sophie  Harsch 
Nauvoo,  Illinois 
The  first  thing  \\'hen  I  receive  the 
Magazine,  I  open  it  to  the  frontispiece 
poem.  I  read  it  more  than  once  in  order 
to  get  its  full  beauty  of  expression  and 
thought.  Then  my  attention  is  taken  by 
each  splendid  editorial.  Especially  do  I 
appreciate  the  depth  and  meaning  Brother 
Doxey  puts  into  his  impressive  theology 
lessons,  which  I  teach  in  our  ward.  Sister 
Christine  Robinson's  sincere'  and  nobly 
expressed  Visiting  Teacher  Messages  are  a 
great  incentive  to  right  living.  Just  think 
how  many  homes  are  benefited  by  her 
gifted  messages. 
—Clara  H.  Park 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 
I  enjoy  the  Magazine  very  much 
especially  the  stories,  as  they  are  short 
and  so  real  and  have  such  pleasant 
thoughts  in  them.  As  I  have  six  children, 
I  don't  have  too  much  time  for  reading, 
but  do  enjoy  the  timely  advice  and  good 
wisdom  which  is  found  throughout  the 
Magazine. 
Congratulations  on  the  winning  poems 
and  stories  published  in  the  recent  con- 
tests (January  and  February  1958).  I 
think  as  a  group  the  three  winning  poems 
are  outstanding  among  contests,  for  theme, 
treatment,  and  variety.  Mrs.  Sutherland's 
story,  as  usual,  displays  her  talent  for  por- 
traying wholesome  family  life.  I  have 
been  wanting  to  express  our  gratitude  for 
having  mother's  poem  "Blessed  Among 
Women,"  and  my  poem  "Upon  a  Holy 
Night,"  in  the  December  issue  of  the 
Magazine.  We  have  long  hoped  that 
someday  we  might  have  a  poem  by  each 
of  us  in  the  same  issue  of  Tht  Relief  So- 
ciety Magazine,  so  this  came  as  a  delight- 
ful Christmas  surprise.  Mother's  poem 
had  tied  for  second  place  in  the  unpub- 
lished poems  at  the  Southwest  Regional 
Contest  of  the  National  League  of 
American  Pen  Women  at  Mesa  Verde, 
Colorado,  last  summer.  We  were  happy 
to  have  it  appear  in  TYig.  Reliei  Society 
Magazine. — Iris  W.  Schow 
-Mary  Loom  is 
Simms,  Montana 
Brigham  City,  Utah 
Your  wonderful  story  "Miss  Pennywell 
Goes  Into  Action,"  by  Frances  P.  Reid 
(October  1957)  was  very  touching  to  me, 
especially  as  my  family  was  living  in  East 
Grinstead,  Sussex,  England,  at  the  closing 
of  the  Bluebell  and  Primrose  railway  line. 
Our  little  cottage  gave  an  excellent  view 
of  the  puttering  httle  line,  and  our  kiddies 
would  wave  to  me  on  my  journeys.  At  the 
time,  I  was  microfilming  for  the  Church 
in  Lewes.  All  success  to  your  wonderful 
Magazii2C.  Have  you  any  idea  how  many 
Priesthood  bearers  read  it? 
— Ronald  Cunningham 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 
I  love  the  Magazine  and  read  it  from 
cover  to  cover  and  enjoy  reading  those 
little  letters  in  the  front  of  the  book  writ- 
ten by  other  ladies.  Finding  dear  old 
friends  means  a  lot  to  me.  I  am  sixty-six 
and  live  alone.  I  have  a  testimony  of 
the  gospel  and  read  the  Church  books, 
and  the  gospel  means  more  to  me  than 
anything  else  in  life. 
— Mrs.  Phoebe  Welker  Adams 
Portland,  Oregon 
Page  210