[Vol45 | April 1958 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Fiction | Title: Recipes | Author: Stone]
[Recipes From the Tongan Mission Sylvia R. Stone]
cJhe  cJongan    uLission 
Preston  R.  Nihhy 
Assistant  Church  Historian 
npHE  Tongan  Mission  was  founded  in  July  1891,  when  two  elders  from 
the  Samoan  Mission,  Brigham  Smoot  and  Alva  J.  Butler,  were  sent  to 
Nukualofa  to  begin  the  work  of  proselyting.  On  the  first  trip  a  native 
Tongan  from  Samoa  accompanied  them. 
At  Nukualofa  they  visited  the  king  of  the  Tongan  people,  Jiaoji 
Tubou,  and  received  from  him  permission  to  preach  the  gospel  to  the 
natives.  They  also  secured  a  small  tract  of  land  in  the  village  of  Mua,  on 
the  island  of  Tongatabu,  on  which  they  erected  a  suitable  mission  home. 
This  home  was  dedicated  by  Elder  Smoot  on  May  15,  1892. 
The  two  elders  also  purchased  a  small  boat,  thirteen  feet  long,  in 
which  they  could  visit  adjacent  islands.  The  islands  were  divided  into 
three  groups,  Tongatabu,  Haapai,  and  Vavau. 
Elder  Andrew  Jenson,  Assistant  Church  Historian,  visited  the  Tongan 
Mission  in  1895,  while  making  a  trip  to  the  Pacific  missions  and  gathering 
facts  pertaining  to  their  history. 
On  account  of  the  meager  results  obtained  by  the  early  missionaries 
Photograph  submitted  by  Sylvia  R.  Stone 
BLOW  HOLES  ON  THE  COAST  OF  TONCA 
Page  222

THE  TONGAN  MISSION 
223 
Photograph  submitted   by   bylvia   K.   Stune 
PALACE  OF  THE  QUEEN,  TONGA 
to  the  Tongan  Islands,  it  was  thought  advisable  by  the  First  Presidency, 
in  1897,  temporarily  to  discontinue  missionary  work. 
Ten  years  later,  in  1907,  the  Tongan  Mission  was  reopened,  with 
Willard  L.  Smith  as  president.  A  new  mission  home  was  built;  the  head- 
quarters was  established  at  Nukualofa;  schools  were  erected  on  several 
of  the  islands,  and  small  branches  of  the  Church  were  organized. 
Missionary  work  was  further  stimulated  in  1921  by  an  official  visit 
to  the* Tongan  Mission  of  Elder  David  O.  McKay  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve,  who  was  making  a  world  tour  of  the  missions  of  the  Church,  ac- 
companied by  Elder  Hugh  J.  Cannon. 
The  membership  of  the  Tongan  Mission  was  given  in  December 
1930,  as  1,232.  In  October  1957,  there  were  4,439  members  in  the  mission, 
located  in  fifty-one  branches.  Fred  W.  Stone  is  serving  as  the  mission 
president. 
Forty-two  Relief  Society  organizations,  with  702  members,  were  re- 
ported in  December  1957.  Sylvia  R.  Stone  presides  over  the  Tongan 
Mission  Relief  Society. 
Note:  The  cover  for  this  Magazine,  Liahona  College,  Tonga,  was  submitted  by 
Elder  Edward  O.  Anderson,  one  of  the  Church  architects.  See  also  "Recipes  From  the 
Tongan  Mission,"  by  Sylvia  R.  Stone,  page  247.