[Vol45 | April 1958 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Fiction | Title: The | Author: Harmer]
[The Apricot Tree Mabel Harmer]

Her heart sank as she heard Isabel tell Mr. Brown, "I shall do an extract from Anne of a Thousand Days." Isabel sat up very straight and spoke very confidently. Nancy shrank a little farther down in her seat as she thought of performing right after Isabel in a dramatic reading. She straightened in her chair as she saw Mr. Brown at her side. "What is your performance, Miss Bailey?" Mr. Brown smiled down at her. She wanted her voice to sound 226 confident as the others had. She cleared her throat and _ hesitated. Nancy knew whatever she told him she could not change. "I think I Shall do.... I think I shall give some quotations from the prophets," she said. In her own ears her voice sounded hollow and weak. Again Mr. Brown smiled and said, as he had to each of the others, "That is acceptable." He wrote her entry after Isabel's. Nancy left the auditorium confused and hurt. She hardly knew what she should do. She didn't want to disappoint Grandma Bailey. It was sweet of her to think I should try for the queen contest, but now I wish I hadn't entered, she told herself. GRANDMOTHER Bailey had first mentioned it one morning when Nancy had taken the morning paper for her to read. 'There were pictures in the paper that morning of many girls who were running for queen of Days of Forty-Seven. Above the picture it read: "Still time for more entries." "Why don't you run for queen, Nancy?" Grandma Bailey had asked as casually as though it were a very usual thing. Nancy had laughed in surprise. "Me—run for queen? Why this is for the whole State. I'd never even run for Rosedale." "We never get to be a thing for which we don't try," her grandma said. "You know there will be near professional talent, and, besides, I'm no beauty, you know." Nancy thought to turn it off lightly. It left her breathless even to think of it. "I'm no beauty either,' Grandmother Bailey laughed, "but I was RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1958 queen of Days of Forty-Seven once, long ago. This contest is different from others." Nancy saw the love and admiration shining in her grandma's eyes. She knew she was remembering that Nancy had a three-year perfect attendance record at Sunday School and sacrament meetings. Those things won't be known to the judges, Nancy thought. If grandma were a judge I would surely win. Finally, her grandmother's persuasive tongue had won, and Nancy was in the running. But Nancy had never thought it would turn this way, with the other girls' unkindnesses. Nancy had another big worry, too. It was about a dress to wear for the final night of the contest. She had heard the girls talking about their dresses and they sounded so wonderful. "I want you to look as nice as any of the girls," her mother had said. "But father can't afford to buy dresses as fine as those Isabel Blake and Jane Parker will wear. I wouldn't want him to. Something simple will be more appropriate on me." Nancy knew it would be a sacrifice for her parents to get all the things she would need. It was Grandma Bailey who came up with an idea. At first Nancy thought the idea a very queer one. She hated to hurt Grandma Bailey's feelings, but when she suggested that Nancy wear the very same dress that she herself had worn for Days of Forty-Seven queen, Nancy's heart sank low. She knew that some way she must change her grandmother's mind. "It is so sweet of you,' Nancy said, "but I couldn't think of wear- TO BE A QUEEN ing your dress that you have treasured all these years." Grandma Bailey took Nancy's arm and led her to the old chest in the corner of her room. "You know your Grandpa Bailey always said that you were going to be just like me, Nancy. 'That you were like I was when he first saw me. I'm sure the dress will fit you perfectly. If grandpa were here he would be very proud to see you in my dress." She slowly unwrapped the dress from the folds of tissue paper. She shook it out and smoothed it lovingly. The loveliness of the dress that her grandmother held up to her brought a delighted exclamation from Nancy's lips. Why, Grandma, it is so beautiful," she said. She had expected to see an old-fashioned affair that would be incongruous to wear for so important an occasion. "Any girl would be proud to wear this dress," she said, and kissed her grandmother fondly on the cheek. RANDMA Bailey looked very pleased as she went on to speak, "The material for this dress came over the seas from England and across the plains in my own grandmother's trunk. She always said she was saving it for a very important occasion. When I was chosen to be queen, she said, "That is what the blue satin brocade is for. 'To make a queen dress for our little Sarah." I was the oldest granddaughter, you know." Grandma Bailey's eyes were a little misty as she said, "I thought it was such a lovely dress, and folks said that I made a pretty queen." Nancy smiled as she thought what a pretty girl Grandmother Bailey 227 must have been. For a long moment she sat quietly watching the little old lady as she dreamily fondled the dress. Nancy wondered what the older grandma was like who had so carefully brought the material so far, and had given it to Grandma Bailey. "You have a fine heritage, Nancy. Your foreparents made great sacrifices for what they believed. 'They had goodness and courage and faith." "Grandma, I am very proud of them, and of you. Thanks so much for letting me wear your precious dress. I will try to be worthy to wear it,' Nancy had said. HEN the final night of the contest arrived, Nancy sat with tenseness in her body, her hands clasped tightly in her lap, and her heart pounded fiercely. 'There were many there to hear their performances, for the public was invited. Nancy knew that all these people would be judging them in their minds, though there were three official judges. The committee had asked that there be no applause from the audience. 'They wanted the judges to judge strictly by the rules given them. Mary Ross was giving a piano selection now. Her white, dainty fingers flew over the keys like fairy spirits dancing in a meadow. One after another, the girls were called to do their parts. 'Their performances were wonderful. Now Nancy watched Isabel Blake glide across the platform. Isabel's dress swept out in graceful billows about her. It was a pale pink, a lovely material with silver shining threads running through it. She wore a brilliant 228 necklace and bracelet that shone with a thousand sparkling lights. Everyone drew a deep breath of approval as Isabel stood to speak. Her deep, mellow voice forcefully portrayed the deep feeling of Anne Boleyn in her speech to Henry the VIII, before Anne's death. Now Isabel was smiling in her charming way, as she finished her reading and glided across the stage like a graceful nymph. Talent, poise, personality, intelligence, charm, and facial and figure beauty; those are the things that are a part of the rules, Nancy thought as she watched Isabel. Isabel has them all. The judges will never know that she can be so unkind. She is sure to win. Nancy heard her own name called now. She knew that somehow she must arise and walk across the stage. She must stand and give her performance. She tried to think of all the things that her Grandmother Bailey had said to her. "Hold your head high, and walk with humble pride, Nancy. You have a heritage of which you may be proud. Your forebears had goodness and courage and faith." As she moved across the platform she kept repeating to herself, "Goodness, courage, faith." She knew that her parents were there someplace and Grandma Bailey would be with them. As her eyes searched the faces before her, she saw them, and Grandma Bailey was smiling and nodding approval of her. The people were smiling, too. She thought, they like my dress. The dress was full-skirted and fell in graceful folds; the bodice was close fitting, and about the neck RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1958 and sleeves were ruffles of soft, creamy lace. 'The ice-blue satin brocade set off Nancy's soft skin. ANCY looked straight into Grandmother Bailey's eyes, and assurance seemed to come into her. "I shall give quotations from the prophets, Isaiah, Joseph Smith, and Brigham Young," she announced proudly. And it shall come to pass in the last days, that the mountain of the Lord's house shall be established in the top of the mountains, and shall be exalted above the hills; and all nations shall flow unto it. And many people shall go and say, Come ye, and let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob; and he will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths. Nancy's eyes swept over the audience. 'There was a shining in her eyes and a gratefulness, for she knew that these prophecies were being fulfilled. The wilderness and the solitary place shall be glad for them; and the desert shall rejoice, and blossom as the rose.... And the parched ground shall become a pool, and the thirsty land springs of water. Nancy smiled. She was seeing the lovely little town which was her home, which had been desert country. Now there were running streams and many flowers. For a moment she paused before going on to give Joseph Smith's prophecy, that the saints would be persecuted and driven to the Rocky Mountains, and would build cities and there become a mighty people. Slowly, deliberately she spoke. With intense feeling she gave a picture of the many who had been led to this lovely, mountain home. Then she finished with TO BE A QUEEN the prophetic words of Brigham Young when he said, ""This is the place." Then, finally, his words again as he stood on the land, and said, 'This is the site for the temple of our God." Nancy raised her eyes now, as though she were looking at the golden angel on the high pinnacle of the great temple that Brigham Young had spoken of. Nancy was not thinking now of being a queen. She was seeing people in slow little ships crossing dangerous seas. She was watching weary saints plod day after day across the prairies and deserts and mountains. Many in the congregation were watching, too, a scene of their loved foreparents who had made great sacrifices to make the fulfillment of these prophesies possible. As Nancy looked down to the audience, she saw Isabel and Jane sitting with their eyes steadily watching her. 'heir faces were as solemn as the others. 'To Nancy there came a sudden feeling of kindness for Isabel. One of the judges soon came to the stage to announce the decision. He looked down at the row of girls before him. 'There was a seriousness in his face as he spoke. "We have reached a unanimous decision, although it has been a very difficult one," he said. "There are so many lovely girls, and much noteworthy talent, yet we have several good reasons for our choice of our queen." HE girls moved restlessly in their seats and watched intently, anxiously, waiting for the names to be given. "I will give you some reasons for 229 our decision," the judge began. "First, for the choice of selection of subject matter so appropriate to the occasion of the Days of FortySeven; next the presentation was so sincerely given, with its wide appeal to all of us; another reason, is the dress befitting the event, and so graciously worn by a modest and charming Latter-day Saint girl." 'The judge hesitated a moment and smiled as he went on, "We are proud to announce that Nancy Bailey is our new queen for Days of Forty-Seven."' To be a queen had meant so many things to Nancy before she was one, but now she found what the true meaning really was. The judge had said some of the things. These were the things that Grandma Bailey had been trying to make her see and feel. Humbly and gratefully now, Nancy accepted the honor. As she expressed her thanks, she said, "It is Grandma Bailey who is really a queen once more. I never could have won without her. Once, years ago, Grandmother Bailey stood as a queen in this very dress that I now wear. I only hope that I can be as lovely a queen as she." Isabel Blake and Jane Parker were named to be Nancy's two attendants. Nancy was startled and a fear went through her. She was sure neither Isabel nor Jane would want to be her attendant. But quickly the two girls hurried over to her. Nancy knew they were sincere when they told her, "Oh, Nancy. You were wonderful. We are so happy that you were chosen the queen. We are proud to attend you."

WY Luoma Photos TULIP GARDEN Color in the (Borders Dorthea N. Newbold Garden Editor, Deseret News - Salt Lake Telegram HEN we begin to garden, it is with the desire to create something beautiful, to improve our bit of land, to satisfy the urge to take soil and seeds and, along with the sun and water, make something out of them. The garden we picture in our minds has borders full of blooms throughout the season—and, of course, there are never any weeds to mar that picture, nor are there any bugs or plant diseases or soil problems. The desire to have a garden full of color throughout the growing season presents quite a challenge. It takes much planning and planting, Page 230 changing about and searching for new ideas and for new combinations of plants. But each new season allows us an opportunity to begin all over again — an opportunity to improve our work. To begin with, it adds to the meaning of "garden," if it is enclosed. 'The enclosure can be of wood, or bricks, cement walls, or a wire fence with shrubs planted in front of it. Or perhaps, best of all, a wall of shrubs or evergreens to enclose the gardened area. Flowers do not show off to their best advantage when left to grow without any background at all. 'They need a COLOR IN THE BORDERS background, and the green shrubbery provides the ideal setting for them. In planning your garden make the borders wide to include the background of foliage. It is a difficult problem to use three feet of space and have color at all times throughout the growing season.