Bubbles and Troubles (CoNCLUDED) By Ruth Moench Bell CHAPTER VIII It was wonderful how little Betty responded to wholesome meals and regular hours. In a few weeks she was a round, rosy adorable baby. "As if any one could resist loving her," Marjory exclaimed, "She isn't common with her love. Once she admits you to her heart she loves so beautifully." "And such a choice, happy little soul she seems," Mrs. Collins smiled almost sadly. Evenings she nestled in her papa Collins' arms while he read the paper. And the picture brought back memories to Edith Collins. Suddenly she got to her feet, one evening, and cried: "We have no right to her, dear." "T'd like to know who has a better right," Mr. Collins, observed. 'You saved her life. But for you she would not be the plump, red-cheeked baby she is now. Who has a better right, I'd like to know!" "Some one with a broken life that her love might mend! Betty's grandmother is alone in the little cottage in which she was once so happy with Mitchell Leslie. He is living with his mother." "And the first thing Ethel would say, if you brought the baby to her to care for, would be, 'Oh, I'd be so tied." "T know she'd say that at first. Ethel doesn't realize yet that she is through chasing bubbles. She doesn't realize yet that they were bubbles. Betty, so real and loving, may seem at first a trouble but she will soon warm Ethel's heart again." "Perhaps! But I don't just see yet how Leslie is to profit by the plan." "That part of the plan may fail. I dare not mention it now. But, Oh, I shall pray it will not fail!' Papa Collins was right in his prognostication. "But I shall be so tied!' Ethel Leslie protested when her sister arrived with the beautiful, smiling Betty. "She is a lovely child. But I can't forgive Barney Graham for marrying my little girl. And I don't feel kindly toward Rhea for marrying him. And whatever would I do with a baby? I've forgotten everything I knew about babies." "'Rhea's marriage can't be changed, now," Ethel said prac- BUBBLES AND TROUBLES 249 tically. "And they seem very happy. I brought a bundle of bul. Letins on the care of babies along with her little clothes. Poor little darling she hasn't many clothes." "T can't clothe her," Ethel declared. "It's all I can do tc clothe myself. And I can't do that decently." Nevertheless, Edith left the baby, knowing she would miss for days to come the little arms around her neck and the many baby caresses. Looking back on the picture the two made, Edith decided she had done right. _ Ethel seemed so much more approachable and womanly in the small cozy cottage which seemed to have grown up around her an emanation of her personality. It fitted her as if it had grown and matured till it was an intimate part cf herself. The magnificence of the big home with its entire lowe: floor one big room divided slightly by portiers, made Ethel seem cold and formal and distant. It may also have contributed to make her so. There she was the proud princess, the lady of quality, gracious and charming dispensing favors or hospitality. Here she seemed a home woman, gentle and sympathetic. She had made the place so artistically cozy that once one opened it's outer door, one naturally accepted a comfortable chair and settled down to rest and relax and visit, leaving with visible reluctance. Betty completed the picture. Edith stood for a minute at the door before she left. Ethel was in her big, roomy chair with Betty cuddled in her arms. Already she had won a welcome. As Marjorie said, "there were babies one could resist but Betty was not one of them." Then Edith left abruptly. She would miss Betty so! "I must find the other actor in this little comedy. Of errors," she said to herself. "They may not pick up their cues at once and be word-perfect at the first rehearsal. But little Betty will be a wonderful stage manager. They are bound to rehearse several times and sometime when Betty warms Ethel's heart into womanly sympathy and love and unselfishness and softens Leslie's heart and sweetens his bitter feelings, perhaps it will be possible for them to come together again." "Oh, here you are," Ethel cried gaily as she ran into Leslie, not entirely by accident. "I just took a surprise up to your house." "Up to my mother's," he answered meeaningly. "No, to Ethel's," Edith ignored his meaning. 'It was such a warm loving bundle. I imagine she would like to see her grandfather." "Rhea's baby!" A joyous red over-spread Leslie's features. "What is she doing here?" Edith told him all as he went with her to the train. 250 "But what would people say if I went up there now?" he demanded. "Tn the first place whose business is it? In the second place, who is going to care? She is the sweetest little spirit I ever associated with. And I've had two darling daughters myself," Edith cried enthusiastically as she boarded her train. Mitchell Leslie happened into an even more appealing scene than Edith had left. It took him till nightfall to make the dare— men are curious creatures of conventions, protesting all the time it is women who make and follow the conventions.. Ethel had forgotten to draw the shades and Leslie could see through the window little Miss Betty's preparations for bed. Recalling Rhea's babyhood, Ethel was playing "this little pig went to market" with Betty's toes. After which she remembered to "shoe the old horse and shoe the old mare" before arraying Betty in her long, white night gown. Betty crowed with delight and Ethel never seemed more lovely. As Betty still seemed to expect something more, Ethel cuddled her close and sang "Papa's gone a hunting." -The song somehow made Ethel's eyes smart and her throat contract. So she blundered onto another of Rhea's favorites, "I'm going to write to papa." That was clearly impossible. Oh, memories! Memories! If we could only forget! How early, then, we might grow hard and cold]! Perhaps it is well that we are most of us akin to the Irish woman who would forgive and forget but she always remembered. Mitchell Leslie did not go in that night. Perhaps memories were tugging at his heart also. The picture was so faithful a reproduction of his early married life. He could have vowed that Babe Betty was his babv. Rhea, whom a mere man, a stranger, had robbed him of and had sworn she should never return to them lest they make a "Mormon" of her once more. "It is hard enough," Leslie reflected as he moved away from the window, "It is hard enough when a stranger robs one of his baby girl but when that stranger sets himself up as judge and supreme dictator and attempts to cancel that baby's past and presumes to cast it's future clean out of the groove it's parent's shaped, then it is hard, indeed." "That's all I have against him" had been Leslie's comments to Rhea. 'When he robs you of parents and religion (Leslie was beginning, then, to see that religion meant something to him) and robs us of our daughter and-her future, don't you think it is a bit rough?" "You don't understand, papa," Rhea had defended, "his only objection to our religion is his objection to all religions. He says we go to church and pray and sing and think we are BUBBLES AND TROUBLES 251 good and noble saints merely because we have been to church. Then the next day we get angry, uncharitable, selfish, and unfair in our relations with each other." "And human," her father had finished. "But our songs and prayers lift us nearer to God even by so much we are better. If they lift us a bit nearer, so we are, as a result of them, a little less given to anger, a little more open-hearted and open-handed, a little more fair and just and charitable towards our fellow men, then the songs and the prayers have not been wholly in vain. And if our songs and prayers will not lift us into a mood of benevolence, what is to save us from the down grade. (Rhea reflecting, wondered if her papa realized that this might have saved her papa and mamma from the breach in their lives.) "Maybe, if he went more often to church, he might see this notion of his in a broader, more tolerant, light." CHAPTER IX Leslie happened in many times. He came in onto such intimate little scenes as Betty's bath. And some of the iron in his nature melted when, in real Rhea impishness, Betty splashed water over him and crowed with delight. There were times when he was allowed to feed her ladyship. At such times she coquetted charmingly with Dada, as she called him. Winter came on and Ethel, tempted beyond her strength, indulged Betty in a wonderful winter array, truly regal, furs and coat and muff, fur-trimmed hood, thumbless mitts, those ludicrous badges of babyhood, leggings and warm petticoats. Once jolted ~ of a selfishness that was only acquired, Ethel had gone the imit. Leslie came in just as the baby princess was first arrayed in her splendor. The Ethel he had loved was bending over her and going into one ecstacy after another as she viewed the products of her purse; empty now and flat on the table. Leslie looked at her, a new light in his eyes. "And what about your winter coat?" he asked. C "Oh, I can do without one," she tossed off lightly, not daring to meet his eyes for the tones of his voice were stirring a strange tumult in her heart. "I can brush and darn the old one and make it do." Leslie left abrutly. He could not trust himself longer with this re-created Ethel, this woman he found he still loved far more than in earlier days., A clerk from Townsend's called Mrs. Ethel Leslie over the phone the next day. "We have something that just came in we want you to see," he explained. "Can you come right away?" Wonderingly Ethel went.. The something proved to be a cloak, a creation, the sort of model Ethel would have chosen in the days of their prosperity. "Try it on," the clerk insisted. Dazed and dazzled, yet knowing it could never be hers, Ethel, in her most regal manner, slipped into it. She gazed at her reflection in the mirror, then turned and began removing the cloak, so becoming. At this point Leslie walked in and stood beside her. "T told him I couldn't consider such a thing," she faltered. "Tt was I who had him send for you," Leslie confessed. "I could see you in it the moment I saw it." Somehow the clerk discreetly had withdrawn. "Do you like it?" "Like it!" she exclaimed. "It is wonderful, magnificent! But I told you I could not consider a coat this winter." "I was wondering if you would let me pay for it," Leslie suggested. Ethel lifted tear-dimmed eyes to his and he pressed her hand gently. Love! What was love of youth to this ios that made one catch his breath for fear it might vanish, this love of later years, so dear because they had done without it and knew of its preciousness. She wondered now, as she felt the warmth of his presence how she could have gone away from him months at a time! How she could have made parties, instead of his comfort, her chief concern.; "Get Dolf Remlap to fix up the plumbing for you," Leslie remarked when they again entered the cozy cottage as man ana wife. It was strange to have gone through a second ceremony of marriage. The whole train of circumstances that had led up to this wonderful moment were strange. Stranger still was the fact that the simple, practical remark: "Get Dolf Remlap to fix up the plumbing for you," should have been more thrilling than the first whispered, "I love you." The words were so little yet meant his pro. Ection was over her again, his thougntruiness, nis practical masculine knowledge of what should be done and who should do it. Such loving protection reminded her somewhat of the great, brooding love of The Divine Protector and somehow it brought her nearer to that serene, spiritual, practical power ready to spread itself comfortingly over her again. She had strayed and stumpled, struggling blindly without His help, also. "Tf Rhea could only be with us now, and her husband," Ethel wished as they sat at table with Betty between them. She telt now that her love was big enough to include him also. "If they could only give up that vaudeville notion, Barney BUBBLES AND TROUBLES 253 and I could develop our business together as partners now that I am getting it on its feet again,' "Leslie sighed. As if in answer to their prayers and plans, Rhea and her husband, a few evenings later, dropped in unexpectedly. They had cancelled part of 'their tour to get to Betty. "We'll take Betty and leave at once for the coast,' Barney, fearful that his presence was perhaps undesirable, bustled importantly. He said it, however, with visible reluctance. The charm and peace of the little home was like a haven of rest to him and Rhea after the vicissitudes of their tour. "IT must get into the motion picture game," he explained. "This travel business is too hard on the little girl." Rhea did look ready to collapse now that the strain was over, | but so blissfully content to be home and find it a real home once more that she had made no complaint.. Betty, with the instinct of babyhood, was fluttering about both parents as if she meant never to lose them from her sight again.. Ethel and Leslie exchanged glances as they looked at Betty. How it would seem to get up in the morning and not see her bright eyes beaming at them? How they would miss her loving arms as she cuddled close so many times a day! "Don't you think you might find something hvre," Leslie suggested to his son-in-law. "Oh, there's nothing here for me. I don't want any of this 'Mormonism' in my life or Rhea's!" "We felt that once," Ethel cbserved. "And I chased bubbles till they broke and I found there was nothing in them. We have found now the real comfort of our home and religion. Of course Betty has had so much to do with restoring our sanity we shall miss her cruelly." "And you saved her life, too, Mumsie, dear, we shan't forget that, shall we, Barney?" Rhea interposed, gratefully. "But she belongs to us," Barney insisted stubbornly. "As Rhea belonged to us," Leslie insisted quietly. "Tt's the way of the world," insisted Barney. "Yes, some day," Leslie laughed, for he felt Barney's defense crumbling, "someday some young popinjay will spring up, Lochinvar fashion, and bear Betty away and bid her bury her past and her people and cleave only to him." "Here, that's hitting below the belt,' Barney gasped, drawing Betty closer. "That is a different story. Suppose we think it over? For I must admit the prospect of a home like this has got me going. What is your plan?" "Well, Rhea and you could have the big house and we'll keep the little one— 254 "Why not you take the big house and we'll have the little one?" Rhea smiled knowingly. -"Why, darn it all, this house has turned the trick for all of us," Barney laughed. "The peace and comfort of it fits around one so snugly one wants to soothe one's soul in it forever. It makes one believe in love and religion and babies and all the realities." "If you feel that way," Leslie exclaimed fraternally, "I believe that business is strong enough to build another just like it not too far away." "You darling," Rhea clasped her father around the neck while Barney caught his hand with a friendly pressure which meant thanks and a promise to meet generously with the best that was in him. Unforgotten "T cannot tell why there should come to me A thought of someone miles and years away, In swift insistence on the memory, Unless there be a need that I should pray. "He goes his way, I mine, we seldom meet To talk of plans or changes day by day, Of pain or pleasure, triumph or defeat, Or special reason why 'tis time to pray. "We are too busy to spare thought For days together of some friends away; Perhaps God does it for us, and we ought To read His signal as a call to pray. "Perhaps, just then, my friend has fiercer fight, A more appalling weakness, a decay Of courage, darkness, some lost sense of right— And so, in case he needs my prayer, I pray. "Friend, do the same for me! If I intrude Unasked upon you, on some crowded day, Give me a moment's prayer as interlude; Be very sure I need it, therefore, pray." —Anon. Old-Fashioned Thrift THROUGH THE EYES OF A MERE MAN By Coral J. Black Until a year ago I was addicted to the restaurant habit. For years my work had called me hither and yon about the country, necessitating stopovers at all manner of hotels and near hotels. Consequently the workings of the average home kitchen were as a closed book to me. I had no kitchen problem to worry over, except as it was reflected in letters of protest from the home office over the vaulting proclivity of my expense account. But I was dimly cognizant of the fact that the benedicts in our organization, as elsewhere, were confronted with a genuine problem. The unprecedented cost of necessities, to say nothing of the nationwide campaign for home thrift, made the topic of kitchen waste an extremely popular theme. One was forever hearing what the starving hordes of Europe could do if they but had the thousands of tons of edible garbage sent each week from American kitchens. I often speculated, in a lazy way, about these conditions and wondered vaguely why something wasn't done about it. Wasn't the American housewife equal to the task of conducting her kitchen without waste? Couldn't she practice, to some extent, at least, the wonderful thrift of the French? But having no kitchen problem of my own, all my ponderings on the subject were rather hazy and impersonal. Late in 1918 my work took me to a town in southeastern Alaska—a city it is called by its optimistic commercial club. For a matter of fact, it is a bustling little center, the largest and busiest town in that part of the territory, notwithstanding the rival claims of its neighbors. Knowing that I was destined to spend an indefinite number of months—possibly years—at my new post, and despairing, after the third day, of surviving a protracted course of restaurant meals, as served by the kitchen kings of the North, I looked around for a private boarding house. By the greatest of good luck, I shortly found myself billeted with a private family, not a boarding house by any means, but a good old-fashioned home. I was taken in with the understanding that I was to take "pot luck" with the family. Nothing could have suited me better. The lady of the house, Mrs. Graham, was a gray haired, motherly old soul, the very sight of whom brought back nearly 256, forgotten memories of Thanksgiving days spent at grandfather's farm. It was in this well-kept, homey, comfortable American domicile that I learned what genuine kitchen thrift is; not penurious pinching, but sound, sensible old-fashioned thrift. The scraps that leftithis kitchen via the garbage can would not have supported a consumptive canary. Waste! There positively wasn't any. Every morsel of left-overs was incorporated into some dainty dish for another meal. The meals for each ensuing day were carefully planned beforehand and practically all the shopping was done by Mrs. Graham herself, for she was old-fashioned in this regard as well as in numerous other ways, and strictly maintained that the first great waste in the average home took place in the buying. No tainted meat or rancid butter, half spoiled cabbage or jaundiced eggs, slightly frozen potatoes or other vegetables, short weights or "substitute" orders ever found their way into her kitchen. And, strange as it may seem, every grocer and butcher in town was sort o' wise to the fact and refrained from offering her any but the best.: I don't mean to infer that she bought the highest priced cuts of meat or indulged in fruits or vegetables out of season. The very thought of such extravagance would have given the dear, thrifty old soul nervous prostration. What I mean is that for every dollar spent she received 100 cents worth of strictly prime goods. The clean plate was the order of the day and, as I remarked before, all ieft-overs, from the unused portion of Sunday's roast to the bread crumbs from the cutting board were disguised, "hidden, camouflaged and sent forth in fancy dress to the next meal. A bit of left-over cereal was added to the pancake batter, I shall never accustom myself to call them by any other name, And, ch boy! What a delightful crispness it gives them, the nut flavor, the so-different something which I am at a loss to describe. I have often wondered since sojourning in these northern latitudes why the women of the states do not make use of the sourdough pot, which seems to be essentially Alaskan, It is a sort of self-starting affair which requires neither yeast nor baking powder to put the kick in it. A little flour, water and sugar are mixed together and allowed to ferment. After this it seems to become a species of perpetual motion. All that is necessary now is to put a little flour and water in the sourdough pot in the evening, stir it thoroughly, set it on the range until morning, and lo! There is pancake batter, fit for the gods. Of course, they add a little salt, and, come to think of it, a pinch of soda. The OLD FASHIONED THRIFT 257 sourdough pot is never washed out—to the true Alaskan such an act would be little short of sacrilege—but is set away with what dough adheres to the sides left as a starter. One of the nightmares of my restaurant life had been hash. The word had been synonymous in my mind with various disreputable and questionable scraps combined under one title "hash!" And I admit that my stomach sounded tremolo one morning when Mrs. Graham questioned brightly, "Hash, Mr. Briggs?" "No," trembled on my lips, but I saw Mr. Graham regarding me with humorous eyes over his own liberal helping, "It tastes skookum," he remarked. I conquered my aversion and took a little. My surprise was genuine. That hash was delicious beyond belief. I asked for a second helping and— but perhaps I'd better not admit further weakness right here in public. I surely agreed with the head of the house that it was "hyiu skookum." My curiosity overcame my natural modesty and I questioned my hostess, "Mrs. Graham, why does this hash look and taste so different to the restaurant-made article?" "Well, there may be various reasons, of course, but I think most hash is ruined by the addition of water. It should still be when it reaches the table, just tiny particles of food blended into a harmonious whole. The addition of water, a common practice, produces a pasty, mushy mess." - There is an item worth remembering. Don't spoil your hash by adding water to it. It was about this stage of the game that Mrs. Graham began to give me all sorts of small data anent kitchen economy. My unusual interest—unusual in a man—seemed to amuse her greatly. She may have thought I was contemplating "bachelor apartments,'' or that I had in view the training of a Mrs. Briggs, or she may simply have been pleased at my genuine admiration of her ingenuity and thrift. One of her frequent and most delightful dishes was what she called "brown stew." This invariably followed beefsteak dinner and, according to Mrs. Graham, was made of bones, bits of trimmings and whatever pieces of steak were left on the platter. There are stews and stews, most of them a joke among men, but Mrs. Graham's brown stew bears no more similarity to the usual article that does chalk to cheese. This is her method: All pieces of meat were placed in a kettle with sufficient fat—butter or beef, suet preferred—to insure its frying to a deep rich brown. A few particles of onion were added and also browned, then all was covered with water and allowed to simmer until done. Now " seasoning, a few slices of potato, and a tablespoon of flour, also 258 browned, were added, and the ''brown stew" was ready for the table. I soon learned to watch for these delectable stews and nevex did tire of them, for each one seemed just a little more tasty and appealing than its predecessor. Another little dish which I never saw before or since was "cracklins." These were made of the fat portions or boiled or roast beef cut into tiny bits slightly salted and "crisped" in a frying pan. Served on a hot plate with French frys they fairly made a man's mouth water. One day Mrs. Graham made the remark that she had not purchased a drop of vinegar in ten years. "How can that be?" thought I. "We have homemade pickles, salads and various other ways in which vinegar is used constantly." Like Sherlock, I began to make important deductions. If she doesn't buy it she either begs, borrows, or—happy thought, makes it. The first two possibilties being duly eliminated, there remained but the truth—she makes her vinegar. But how? Later she explained tome that about ten years previous to her remark she bought five gallons of the best white wine vinegar. This was put in a twenty-gallon keg. To the "start" was added every speck of jelly, the tinsings from honey, syrup and molasses cans, left over fruit juice, carefully strained, and last but not least, all apple cores and parings were placed in glass jars covered with clear water and left in a warm place for a short time, the juice then being pressed through a muslin cloth and added to the vinegar barrel. And I rise right here to remark that there never was a commercial vinegar that could equal it in flavor. It was good enough to drink, and with prices hovering around $1 a gallon was no small economy. Mrs. Graham asked me one day at luncheon if I would stop at the butcher shop on my way home and get some sausage for her. Of course I couldn't very well refuse, so she gave me thirtyfive cents and admonished me to "see that you get full weight." When the butcher placed the infinitisimal amonut, thirty-five cents worth, on the: scales I wondered in my heart who would be the favored ones, for I well knew it would never reach around her crowd. Imagine my surprise when a platter generously heaped with tempting brown ovals were placed before me on the table. I just had to know what sort of magic was responsible and learned that two well beaten eggs, a teaspoon of sage and a cup of fine bread crumbs had turned the trick. Don't get sniffy, folks, and imagine it was a "substitute" dish. I never tasted better sausage in my life. "Steamed bread!' Oh, boys of the gripsack, doesn't that con-