The General Procession By James H. Anderson Mexico was more peaceful during March than for years past. Four aviators started on March 31 to fly from Portugal to Brazil. The South African rebellion against Great Britain was quelled in March. Russian soviets instituted a government after their own plan in Mongolia, China, in March. Spain and the Moors were seriously at war in March, by sanguinary battles in Morocco. Italy had much disturbances in March, in the way of political riots. Mt. Etna was in eruption. Incendiary fires in considerable number were reported in various parts of the United States in March. Russia confiscated, in March, the jewels in the Russian church at Kiev, valued at several million dollars. Ex-Emepror Charles of Austria died at Funchal, Madeira, on April lst. His wife and seven children survive him. Armenia is to be given over to the League of Nations for administration, according to a decision reached in March. France proposes an autonomous government for Syria, but raises sharp objections to American financial interests there. The Jewish Passover this year begins on Wednesday, Aori! 12—+the same day of the week as in the year of the crucifixion. _ Dr. Frank Crane, discussing the Irish situation in M arch, claims that it was due to "Ireland seeking glory rater than justice." Herbert C, Hoover, secretary of commerce in President 282 Harding's cabinet, was in Utah in March, on his trip to the Pacific states. China is to be disturbed by civil war within a few weeks, both factions there being in a state of preparation. Great Britain had the experience in the first week in April of 850,000 men out of employment by strikes and lockouts. Russia made threats in March to engage in war on Poland, alleging that the latter was provoking hostilities by trespassing on the Russian frontier. Shantung was given to Japan by the League of Nations treaty, and restored to China by the Four-powers treaty just made at Washington, D. C. The general strike in April this year is merely a further step in a general political scheme to overthrow the present governmen fora soviet. See B. Of M., Esther 8: 21-26. The Roman and Greek Catholic churches seemed appreciably growing toward closer relations, by developments in March, in conferences between those church dignitaries. The Allied powers of Europe practically yielded to all the demands of Turkey in a revision of the treaty of Sevres, thus paving the way for further war in the Near East. The Four-Power treaty, by which all the great nations— Great Britain, Japan and France—having interests in the Pacific guarantee to respect the interests of the United States (and this nation does likewise with them,) was approved by the United States Senate, after considerable debate, Senator Smoot of Utah voting yes, and Senator King of Utah voting no. See B. Of M. Nephi, 10:12. WHAT THE WOMEN ARE DOING Elsie Buckingham of California owns the biggest fruit farm in the world. Kentucky has a state election in November on the question of full equal suffrage for women. Miss Evelyn V. Allen of Chicago, twenty years of age, has THE GENERAL PROCESSION 283 two doctor's degrees in law—one from Yale and the other from the University of Chicago. Japanese women are being employed in Japan as detectives in cases where women suspects are involved. Mrs. Maude Wood Park, president of the National League of Women Voters, was in Salt Lake City on March 7. Seven Nebraska mothers are attending the University of Nebraska where their daughters are also in attendance. Mrs. Winifred M. Huse and Mrs. Mary B. Spenser of Chicago are aspirants to the United States senate from Illinois. French women are engaged this spring in a pronounced movement for equal suffrage and equal social privileges with men. Women are to be prohibited from smoking in public in Massachusetts, according to a bill introduced in the legislature there. Mrs. Pauline L. VanGarven, aged 70 years, won the first prize at an "'old fiddlers' contest" held recently at St. Paul, Minnesota. - Lady Rhondda, lately granted the right to a seat in the British house of lords, is one of the largest coal mine owners in Great Britain. In Iowa, in March, several tickets of women candidates entirely were made up for town elections, and in some instances were successful. Mrs. Nancy M. Lyons, aged 107 years, died at St. Louis, Mo., on March 22. He death was hastened by an accident which fractured her hip. Mrs, Irene C. Buell of Nebraska and her sister, Mrs. A.-K. Gault of Minnesota, both are candidates for member to Congress in their respective states. Women police officers have been disbanded in London, England, on the ground that female inadaptability to the work required there results in inefficiency. A women's vigilantes commit: ee was organized in San Fran- 284 cisco in March, the reason given being that smoking among girls was growing worse there. Mrs, Florence Ethel Walker, of Boston, Mass., aged 35 yeat", has been twice widowed, twice divorced, and was married for the fifth time on March 6. The young women and girls in Albania are changing their dress from trousers to short skirts as a result of health and sanitary teachings by American nurses there. Queen Elena of Italy appears at social functions with skirts about four inches above the ankles and with no low bodices, as an example to her people in proper dress. Women jurors and a woman judge handled a case in Wickliffe, Kentucky, in March, in which a woman was accused of disturbing the peace, and was convicted and fined $10. Women will be admitted for the first time in a general conference of the Methodist Episcopal church, which conference this year is to be held at Hot Springs, Arkansas, in May. Princess Mary, Viscountess Lascelles, is the official title by which the only daughter of King George V of England is to be known, now. That she is married to a husband not of the royalty. Mrs. Emma S. Sampson, author and magazine writer, has been appointed one of the members comprising the West Virginia motion picture board of censorship, recently created by legislative act. Princess Elizabeth Tschernitschew, American-born widow of a former Russian prince, was re-admitted to the United States in March. She says she witnessed the crucifixion of her husband by Russian revolutionists. Influential women in different classes of the people in Italy were urged by Pope Pius XI, in March, to use their efforts against the prevailing immodesty in women's dress, and many have responded favorably. Lady Astor, member of the British parliament, who was born in the United States, is to visit this country the coming summer, as an offset to the visit of Mrs. Herbert Asquith, who did not take kindly to American women, but praised the men.