[Vol56 | April 1969 | Page 292 | Special Feature | Research, Education, Service The Arr)erican | Cancer Society]
[Research, Education, Service The Arr)erican Cancer Society]
Black Satin and Love

Ada Stonely Yates

The day was warm and sultry. I was sitting in my bedroom, tired, angry, and frustrated. All day I had worked so hard—sweeping, dusting, cooking, preparing for the visit of my two daughters and grandchildren. My eighty-year-old father had followed my every step, like a little child. He had lived with me since my dear husband, John, had passed away. He had spilled milk on my clean rug, tracked dirt on my polished floor. "He never wipes his feet," I had fumed. He turned on the TV so loud that my ears rang, and the last straw—he answered the telephone and said, "She is too busy to talk now!"

I can't stand any more of this, I thought. He must live somewhere else. I will tell him so . . . after I rest.

Drowsing, half sleeping, my thoughts went back many years. My first red-haired baby girl was three weeks old. She was a colicky baby, crying almost constantly. John and I got very little sleep; the birth took all of our savings, and none of my dresses fit! I had taken my little one in my arms in the rocking chair and we both had wept together.

A little knock had come at the door and in had walked Father. He looked at the weeping twosome, said not a word, telephoned Mother to babysit, took me to the best store in town and said, "Pick out a dress—and don't look at the price!"

There it was—the perfect dress! Black satin, a little high collar, piped in red, and a circular skirt that swung as I circled it in delight. It was mine!

Returning home, I cradled my little one, and she, sensing my happiness, actually slept! And from that day on she was a happier baby. I proudly wore my new dress when she was blessed.

I went to Father—napping in front of the blaring TV and kissed him. "What was that for!" he asked. "For a black satin dress," I answered. He didn't remember, but I'll never forget. Hundreds of dresses I have worn since that day long ago. I don't remember their style or color, but I'll never forget a kind father who had enough intuition to know what would make a young wife and mother happy.

He can live with me as long as he wishes. Thank you my father for all your many acts of kindness to your impatient daughter, and, especially, for the black satin dress, piped in red, with the swirling skirt.

Annie Naef Merrill, Franklin Stake, Preston, Idaho, has made many lovely quilts and pieces of handwork that have brightened the lives of her many friends, her three children, ten grandchildren, thirty-two great-grandchildren, and eight great-great-grandchildren.

She has spent countless hours caring for the sick and needy. In addition to her unselfish service, she has spent countless hours caring for the sick and needy. In addition to her unselfish service, and lovely handwork, she enjoys caring for her vegetable garden, and has flowers in her yard. She is also an excellent cook.

Sister Merrill enjoys doing temple work, and her life is an inspiration to all who know her. In Relief Society she has been a faithful visiting teacher for sixty-eight years, served as a counselor for ten years, and is still a Singing Mother. She has also served in important positions in the other auxiliaries.

Mary Ann McElprang Cook Allred, Emery Stake, Huntington, Utah, has created countless numbers and varieties of handwork for her many friends and her family of seven children, twenty-four grandchildren, and twenty-nine great-grandchildren.

She has enjoyed doing temple work and has done endowment work for 2540 women. She has served in many positions in Relief Society. For thirty years she served as a visiting teacher, and has served as a class leader and secretary. In the other auxiliaries she has held high and important callings, and has done missionary work.

Sister Allred has always been known for the efficiency with which she accomplishes the tasks set before her, and her life has been inspirational to all who know her.