[Vol56 | April 1969 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: 241 Let Me Be Free Linnie F. Robinson Thankfulness, Grace B. Wilson]
241        Let  Me  Be  Free     Linnie  F.  Robinson 
Thankfulness,  Grace  B.  Wilson  247;  Easter,  Bertha  A.  Kleinn)an  269;  Trust,  Gay  N.  Blanchard  280; 
Song  of  a  Happy  Housewife,  Evelyn  M.  Sandberg  316. 
Published  monthly  by  THE  GENERAL  BOARD  OF  RELIEF  SOCIETY  of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter  day  Saints.  ©1969 
by  the  Relief  Society  General  Board  Association.  Editorial  and  Business  Office:  76  North  Main  Street,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah  84111: 
Phone  364-2511;  Subscription  Price  $2.00  a  year;  foreign,  $2.00  a  year;  20^  a  copy,  payable  in  advance.  The  Magazine  is  not 
sent  after  subscription  expires.  No  back  numbers  can  be  supplied.  Renew  promptly  so  that  no  copies  will  be  missed.  Report 
change  of  address  at  once,  giving  old  and  new  address.  Entered  as  second-class  matter  February  18,  1914,  at  the  Post  Office, 
Salt  Lake  City.  Utah,  under  the  Act  of  March  3,  1879.  Acceptance  for  mailing  at  special  rate  of  postage  provided  for  in  section 
1103,  Act  of  October  8,  1917,  authorized  June  29,  1918.  Manuscripts  will  not  be  returned  unless  return  postage  is  enclosed. 
Rejected  manuscripts  will  be  retained  for  six  months  only.  The  Magazine  is  not  responsible  for  unsolicited  manuscripts. 
243

Hope  and  Encouragement  for 
CANCER  CURE 
Elder  Spencer  W.  Kimball 
of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 
[Address  Delivered  at  a  meeting 
of  the  Utah  Division  of  the 
American  Cancer  Society,  April  13,  1968] 
■  Tonight,  we  meet  to  unite  our 
forces  and  our  interests  in  raising 
funds  with  which  to  combat  the 
destructive  forces  which  each  year 
cause  such  monumental  havoc  in 
loss  of  life,  suffering,  pain,  and 
misery. 
Recently  in  an  issue  of  the 
Reader's  Digest  in  the  advertise- 
ment section  appeared  the  fol- 
lowing: 
SPEAKING  OF  THE  BROAD  SPECTRUM-ANTIBIOTICS 
.  .  .  Those  universal  germ  killers  made  possible  the  practical  control  of  more  than 
100  varieties  of  infections  including  those  responsible  for: 
CHOLERA  WHOOPING  COUGH  DEADLY  PARROT  FEVER 
CERTAIN  PNEUMONIAS  ROCKY  MOUNTAIN  FEVER  SPOTTED  FEVER 
TYPHOID  FEVER  AS  WELL  AS  TYPHUS- 
The  article  said  the  span  of 
man's  life  had  been  extended 
fifteen  years  since  1900. 
As  I  read  this,  I  was  almost 
overwhelmed  with  gratitude  to 
the  researchers  who  discovered 
these  precious  medicines  which 
made  possible  the  cure  of  these 
dread  diseases,  and  to  the  many 
people  who  contributed  funds 
for  such  rewarding  research. 
There  came  rushing  back 
through  my  memory  a  sixty -one 
year  old  picture  of  anguish, 
terror,  fear,  hopelessness.  There 
we  were,  eight  of  our  mother's 
*  Advertisement,   Reader's   Digest,   February    1968,    Reprinted   by   permission   of   the    Pharma- 
ceutical Manufacturers  Association. 
244

Hope  and  Encouragement  for  Cancer  Cure 
eleven,  in  our  parents'  bedroom. 
Our     mother     was     dead.     Our 
father     was     away.     Our     older 
brother  Gordon  sat  in  the  chair 
holding  our  littlest  sister  while 
she  died,  with  all  of  us  youngsters 
around  the  chair  frightened  and 
praying  and  weeping.  The  doctor 
was  miles  away.  His  horse  and 
buggy   could   not   possibly   have 
brought  him  there  soon  enough, 
and    what    could    he    do    if   he 
arrived?  It  seemed  to  be  a  com- 
bination of  diphtheria  and  mem- 
braneous croup,  and  little  Poche 
was  literally   choking  to  death. 
In  terror,  we  watched  the  little 
body  fight  valiantly  for  air  and 
life,    then    suddenly    relax    com- 
pletely. The  hard-fought   battle 
was    over.    She    had    lost.    Our 
older  brother  seemed  to  be  re- 
luctant   to    admit    it    was    over. 
He  held  her  for  awhile,  hoping 
hopelessly.  And  while  we  children 
convulsively  held  to  each  other 
in  this  traumatic  experience,  he 
tenderly  carried  the  little  lifeless 
body  to  the  bed  and  covered  it 
with  a  sheet,  and  there  welled 
up  in  our  hearts  an  almost  un- 
controllable anguish  and  a  dark 
void  and  deep  emptiness. 
As  we  tried  vainly  to  comfort 
each  other,  we  had  no  idea  that 
some  day  in  our  own  time,  n^ 
more  little  two-year-olds  would 
die  from  these  afflictions,  but 
that  intelligent,  determined  men 
of  science  would  find  the  pre- 
ventative and  cure.  And,  then, 
my  memory  took  me  back  over 
half  a  century  when  I  was  a 
teenager.  One  day  all  the  symp- 
toms of  typhoid  fever  enveloped 
me,  and  a  deep  dizziness  sent 
me  to  the  bed  holding  to  the 
sides  of  it  with  both  hands.  I 
knew  in  those  pioneer  days  in  a 
new  world  nearly   every   family 
had  its  share   of  typhoid.   Con- 
taminated water,  little  sanitation, 
no  hospitals,  nor  nurses,  nor  pre- 
ventative medicine,  those  loving 
parents  just  lived  on  and  hoped. 
Double  and  triple  funerals  were 
common,     even     in     this     small 
country     town.     The     cemetery 
expanded    unmercifully    fast.    I 
had  never  dreamed  that  I,  too, 
would  be  its  victim.  My  country 
doctor  was  devoted  and  attentive, 
but    he    had    few    facilities    and 
possibly  was  limited  in  knowledge. 
Well    do    I    remember    the    long 
starvation  period,  and  the  pain, 
agonies,  and  distresses  of  those 
many  weeks  which  would  seem- 
ingly never  end.  But,  I  was  one 
of  the   fortunate   ones — I    lived. 
And  as  I  lay  helpless  and  near 
hopeless  in  my  agonies,  little  did 
I  dream  that  some  day  I  would 
have  a  direct  posterity  of  more 
than   thirty-one   souls,   and   not 
one   of   them    would    ever   have 
typhoid    fever — thanks    to    the 
diligent,  faithful  researchers  and 
those    who    helped    finance    the 
studies. 
My  memory  again  took  me 
back  a  half  century,  when  as 
young  newlyweds,  we  were  to  be 
plagued  with  the  dread  disease 
of  smallpox.  There  was  an  epi- 
demic in  the  little  town — every- 
body was  exposed — many  were 
to  suffer  as  did  I,  and  some  were 
to  lose  their  lives  to  this  merci- 
less monster  killer.  I  had  the 
kindest,  sweetest  nurse  in  the 
world  and  through  her  tender 
care,  the  fever  finally  subsided, 
the  distress  phased  out,  and 
even  the  pox  marks  cleared  up. 
As  we  sat  waiting  and  suffer- 
ing and  watching  day  after  day, 
little  did  we  know  then  that  we 
245