[Vol56 | April 1969 | Page 284 | General Feature | Recipes From New Zealand | Anna Molenaar]
RECIPES from NEW ZEALAND Anna Molenaar Napier, New Zealand LEMON MERINGUE PIE 3 tbsp. Cornflour (corn starch) 1 tbsp. Butter 2 or 3 egg yolks 2%, c. Water lV, c. Sugar grated rind and juice of 2 lemons Bring water, sugar, lemon rind, and butter to a boil. Blend cornflour with cold water and boil together 5 minutes. Remove from heat, cool, and add lemon juice and beaten egg yolks. Bake flaky pastry shell at 350° for 1 hour. Pour in lemon mix and pile meringue on top. Meringue: Beat whites of 2 or 3 eggs until stiff and add 4 tbsp. Sugar and 2 tbsp. Coconut. Place pie back in oven at low heat and leave until golden brown. PAVLOVA CAKE 4 to 5 egg whites vanilla essence 1, c. Caster sugar (fine) 2 tsp. Cornflour (corn starch) 1 tsp. Vinegar 3 tbsp. Cold water pinch of salt Beat whites very stiff and add water. Add sugar, beating gradually but well. Mix or fold in cornflour, salt, vanilla, and vinegar. Pile onto a waxed paper wax side up and bake at 250° for 1¥, hours. Turn onto a Pavlova dish or large round platter, fill with whipped cream, and top with drained peaches, jelly, or any type of fruit. SNOW PUDDING 1 tbsp. Gelatin. 3 egg whites Yc. Boiling water rind and juice of one lemon Yc. Cold water ', tsp. Vanilla 2 tbsp. Sugar Dissolve gelatin in boiling water, add cold water, sugar, and stiffly beaten egg whites, and vanilla. Beat until mixture begins to set. Pour onto wax paper, wax side up. Decorate as for Pavalova. 283 Ada Stonely Yates @ The day was w angry, and fry dusting, cooking, Preparing for the 8randchildren. My ¢;. My elghty-year-old Step, like a little. H band, John, had Tug, tracked dj Wipes his feet," I had ars rang, and the last "She is laring TV and kissed he asked "For a bla Michele Bartmess as told by Annette Giles ~ Synopsis: Jennifer Miles has returned from Houston, where she stayed until her mother underwent successful heart surgery. She returns home to assist in caring for her mother and the three Miles sons, ages seventeen, fifteen, and twelve.
