[Vol56 | April 1969 | Page 283 | General Feature | Project Housecleaning Edythe | K. Watson]
[Project Housecleaning Edythe K. Watson]

h of office as President of the United States on January 20, 1969. Anna Moffo, Metropolitan Opera and La Scala coloratura soprano, was soloist at the Inaugural Concert, held at Constitution Hall, January 19, at which the Tabernacle Choir performed. Miss Moffo sang three numbers from Broadway American musicals. Peggy Fleming, the exquisite figure-skating champion who was the only United States gold medal winner at the Winter Olympics in 1968, was named Female Athlete of the year on January 24 by the annual Associated Press Poll. A very close runner-up was swimming champion, Debbie Meyer. Debbie Meyer, Sixteen-year-old triple gold medal winner for swimming at the Summer Olympics 1968, last January became the fourth female in thirty-nine years to win the Sullivan Award, given annually by the Amateur Athletic Union to the outstanding amateur athlete in the United States. She came out barely ahead of two famous men athletes. Voting were sports writers, broadcasters, amateur athletic union officials, and amateur sportsmen. 279 inside and out TRUST Trust. Is a fr we Word f ¢ vw mortals And passion 3 brilliant stone (0 Crack it on. 2 But lOVe, true love is the velvet ¢ love That irhac it Aacits frist defore. It sone —Gay N Blan: Nara ng. Ce it was a ks to complete. Jy. Home life e of electrical servants one in only 4 father disHousecleaning can ask requiring pulled apalt, Every room ted. Today: in many areas, ts, housecleanin the homemaker e cleaning. Simplifying A. Arrange an ne or outside disturbance n cleaning B. Concentrate fe) disarray: 281 i Photo by Ward Linton each day: April 1969 C. Have all needed equipment available and in good working order. Use proper equipment. Don't endanger your life or limbs by standing on a chair or a table when a stepladder should be used. Long-handled brushes are available which can help avoid excessive stretching, straining, reaching or bending. D. Keep your cleaning material together in a carry-all container, as illustrated. These are available at some dairies and markets for a nominal fee. They may be covered with contact paper, leftover walltex, or painted. If these cartons are not available, a basket with a handle will serve just as well. Provide the carryall with: 1. Window cleaner. Fill a squirt bottle Y, full of sudsy ammonia, fill remainder with water. Excellent for cleaning windows. Badly soiled outside windows should be washed first with detergent, then use the ammonia solution. Dry with soft lintless cloth (a piece of old sheet is excellent), crumpled newspapers work well, or a damp chamois. Squirt bottle containing cleaning solution and water. Brushes of different varieties. Stiff toothbrushes are excellent for small areas and hard to reach crevices (around wash basin, sinks, etc.). 4. Wax and polish. 5. Cleaning agents: For brass, bathroom fixtures, doorknobs, tile, or linoleum. (Children's old white socks, slit up one side to provide a larger cleaning area, are good for applying wax and polish. Plenty of clean, absorbent soft cloths may be accumulated throughout the year for special uses.) E. Carefully follow the instructions on all cleaning agents. Manufacturer research provides the best methods for use. Don't use more than the directions specify or you may damage your woodwork, walls, carpets, or upholstery. Be careful about combining products, as some combinations can be dangerous. F. Change cleaning water frequently, and wash lower part of walls first, so that rivulets of water running down walls will pass through clean areas and not leave streaks. G. Take time to rest occasionally. Housecleaning can be very tiring. You can accomplish more if you do not let fatigue overtake you. Sit down on the floor, don't bend, when cleaning low cupboards or polishing furniture legs, etc. H. Many of the best housekeepers I know find it much easier to include, as part of their weekly cleaning, tasks which would generally be included in general housecleaning; such as cleaning and rearranging cupboards, drawers, etc. A stormy day when one is confined to the home is a perfect time for doing such jobs. This eliminates time-consuming small tasks at housecleaning time. I I. Check your home for any needed repairs that might prove dangerous— frayed rugs, damaged light cords, protruding nails, etc. J. Use rubber gloves whenever possible. Strong cleaning agents can play havoc with hand skin. Keep a good hand lotion or cream in readiness at all times. The following is an excellent home recipe for hand lotion and will help to remove chap and soreness: 2 tbsp. Flax seeds I Boil flax seeds and water down to one pint and strain 1 qt. Water J through a fine sieve. Let cool. Add glycerine, bay rum, and 4 oz. Pure glycerine I pure rose water and beat with an egg beater until thoroughly 3 oz. Bay rum [ combined. Makes one quart. Put in bottles and store in 3 0z. Pure rose water f cool place. What is so inviting as a sparkling clean house where even the air seems fresh, clean, and invigorating! Home can indeed become the best loved place of all, when the project—housecleaning—is completed and all is bright, shiny, and clean, with a place for everything and everything once again in its place.