[Vol56 | April 1969 | Page 263 | Special Feature | A Horse and Buggy Romance— First Prize Story | Iris W. Schow]
[A Horse and Buggy Romance— First Prize Story Iris W. Schow]
FIRST PRIZE STORY A Horse and Buggy Romance Iris W. Schow @ You wonder why Uncle Eli Mallory's younger children call me Aunt Emma, and yet I speak of his older children as my cousins? And how Uncle Eli can be Daddy's brother-in-law, and mine, even though he's our uncle? Well, it does sound like a complicated situation. It all grew out of a comical adventure, which might be called a horse and buggy romance. The summer I was eighteen Father sold his wheat farm out north of the temple and bought the fruit farm over in the valley below Verona, to return to his boyhood community. I certainly didn't want to move; two young men were showing me a good time that summer. Ben played both guitar and mandolin, and when we had group singing I could make the old parlor organ sound pretty lively. Henry, a brilliant college student, owned a new single buggy in which we could ride, just the two of us. Or another couple could go along, if the girl sat on the fellow's lap. Father didn't approve of either situation, but times like the afternoon of the circus or the Fourth of July, he did let me go. Father disapproved of the occasional drinks Henry took with the fellows, and so did I. But he worried, too, because Ben didn't. Have a steady job. Uncle Eli was there helping Father put up hay, but he was going home to market his own peach crop. His four motherless children were in Grandma Mallory's care, as they often were since Aunt Maria's death five years before. Father was worrying because the new owner wasn't taking over the wheat farm be- 256 FIRST PRIZE STORY A Horse and Bugéy Romance Tris W. Schow fore the harvest, and with Nephi away on a mission, how could we get the peach crop over on the new farm marketed? Then, with that twinkly squint in his blue eyes, Uncle Eli suggested that I ride home with him, stay with Grandma Mallory, and market the crop. Of course, he would round up some fruit pickers and supervise everything. Everyone thought this was a grand plan, except me. When I complained to Mother that I would lose my good times with both Henry and BenI didn't know which I liked better she said, "Now stop thinking only of yourself, Emma. If either Ben or Henry is the right one for youwhich I doubtthe way will be opened up, and he will get over there to court you. But I think the right one is over there, where Father found me, and Uncle Eli found his Maria." Protesting was useless. When the afternoon came, I packed everything I owned, for I decided to do my own moving and get it done right. What two suitcases wouldn't hold, I put into a good stout box, tied tightly with the old rope that used to tether my pet lamb. I marked it Emma Mallory in black crayon and left it in the bedroom I had shared with my younger sisters. I dressed in a somewhat faded pink frock trimmed with black ribbons threaded through lace beading. There was no point in fixing up just to ride through the mountains with Uncle Eli. We would reach Grandma's about dark, and I didn't know the young people over there, anyway. But there was my best hat, a -widebrimmed white leghorn with pink satin ribbons and darling little blue forget-me-nots. How to move that? I set it on my head, pinned it to my firmly done-up blonde hair, and smiled into the mirror. The girl with the shining brown eyes and pretty nose smiled back. Perhaps her smile was a little too broad, making the even teeth appear small by comparison. Yet, on the whole, I was A Horse and Buggy Romance quite pretty, even in the faded dress. And I had devised the perfect way to move a hat. "Why the Sunday hat with the old dress?" asked Father, firmly. Cheery even in farewell. Uncle Eh, taller even than his older brother, gave my cheek a little pinch in the annoying way he reserved. For children. "There's no point in fixing up for a ride over the mountains," I said, "but this is the safest way to move a lady's best hat." Everyone laughed, and Uncle Eli, wearing his second best suit, which he had felt sufficed for one Sunday School and sacrament meeting away from home, set his own stiff straw hat firmly on his head. Then off we went in the single buggy he had driven while courting Aunt Maria thirteen years before. Of course, at eighteen, I regarded Uncle Eli as an old fuddyduddy, and I hadn't much to say to him. He was around thirtyseven, and his four children ranged in age from five to eleven. He sometimes remarked that he was trying to be both father and mother to them, although certainly nobody could hope actually to replace Maria. Everyone thought that after five years of this, Uncle Eli certainly should undertake finding some really sweet girl to be their stepmother. But if Grandma or Father even mentioned that to him, he just said that nobody could ever take Maria's place with either him or the children. We were past all the farms and into the hills before we talked much, probably because we both had plenty to think about. And then somehow we 257 April 1969 moved from brief remarks about marketing the peaches to discussing our own personal problems. I mentioned my disappointment over giving up the fun singing while Ben played the mandolin or guitar, and Uncle Eli told me how he and Aunt Maria used to visit all the wards together when he was the stake Sunday School chorister, while she was stake organist. "But I couldn't go on singing in public, when she was gone," he said. "Not merely because it wouldn't be showing a_ proper respect for her, but because I just couldn't stand to have someone else sitting there playing the " organ When Uncle Eli's voice broke, I hastily began telling him how I would miss riding in Henry's shiny new buggy. Then he began telling me how nice his own buggy had been when it was new, and how pretty Maria's curly black hair had been, and how her big brown eyes had sparkled when he took her driving. "Some people said Maria was a trifle too heavy. But I didn't think she was too plump. To me Maria was always right as rain in every respect. Yes, sir, girl, right as rain!" Uncle Eli's eyes filled with tears. He looked straight ahead again. Riding here alone with him, I sensed for the first time something of the depth and meaning of his sincere sorrow. "Speaking of rain," he said presently in his natural tone, "those clouds in the west look black, don't they? I'd hate to be caught in a summer shower up here. Late August is pretty un- 258 dependable. What do you think, girl?" Knowing nothing about it, I told him how I would miss being Sunday School organist, and he said he had been on the high council almost from the hour he had been released as stake chorister, so he visited a ward each month. And he might drop a hint at our new ward that I played the organ. Just then came a flash of lightning and a clap of thunder, and we realized that it looked very much indeed like rain. It was rain. It became dark as twilight. The dirt road grew muddy and slippery. I pulled the lap robe up to my shoulders, and Uncle Eli did have his suit coat. The buggy top protected us pretty well. The storm grew fiercer and fiercer. When it rains like that in the canyon, the lightning dances on the road in front of you. So in a sense we could see the road very well: Dolly, the mare, was very steady. But the road was narrow then. At the second bend above Verona the back wheel slid from the road's edge, something broke on the buggy, and we landed in the gully, suitcases, buggy, mare, and all, in the slippery mud of that terrible storm. Uncle Eli got me out. Then he extricated Dolly, and finally his straw hat and the suitcases. He tried to see if he could get the buggy out, and then when he couldn't, he tried to see what it would take to fix the broken part. We were drenched in no time. Uncle Eli was sure there was not a dry thread on him. By the time he decided to carry the suitcases and have me lead Dolly into Verona, it was getting really dark. He fastened his own small bag of soiled work clothes somewhere on Dolly's harness, and we proceeded, the lightning helping us stay on the road. "You never realize it's so far to the outskirts of Verona, when you re dashing along in the buggy behind a spirited horse,' commented Uncle El. "But we'll stop at the first lighted house. Are you moving the flatirons in these suitcases, Emma?" "No," I said, "but about everything I own is in them." The storm was less wild now, but it certainly had not stopped raining. I felt sorry for us both. When at last a lighted house appeared, Uncle Eli said assuringly, who will open  the door when I knock. But we are all brothers in the gospel, and I do know it will be someone I've seen at the Verona meetinghouse, for almost everyone in this little valley belongs to the Church." He never did knock on the door, however, for the moment he A Horse and Buggy Romance touched the yard gate, the dogs barked furiously, charging out, circling back, and charging out again. When the door opened, the dogs reluctantly subsided, and there in the beam of lamplight Uncle Bhi lifted his dripping straw hat. The middle-aged lady, recognizing the high councilman, eXclaimed, "Why, Brother Mallory!" in tones of disbelieving, dismayed sympathy. Then many family members clustered behind her. Uncle Eli hurried toward her, exclaiming, "Sister Renstrom!" and began to explain our situation. Meantime I led Dolly into the yard and toward the light, pausing when I was as neat to the house as one a ought to bring AA One dog kept coming up and sniffing at Dolly, which made both her and me nervous. "Jim! Ted!" called Sister Renstrom. "Go and help Brother Mallory.". A sturdy young man emerged, followed by his younger brother. Both were donning 259 April 1969 denim jumpers over their blue work shirts and overalls. "1 0 (a AWA: ny AM Emma Mallory," said Uncle Eli. "She's moving to our city." The older, taller, more handsome young man gave me an amused glance, and Uncle Eh, noticing my hat, remarked, "Emma is demonstrating that the safest way to move a lady's Sunday hat is just to wear it." I had completely forgotten my hat during our distress, but now I realized that it sagged on the sides like a pair of horse's blinkers. And I had thought that Uncle Eli cut a ridiculous figure before these people! "This is not my best hat!" I said. "In fact, I don't even have a Sunday hat, right now." I 260 (Set "You look very pretty in it, Miss Mallory, I assure you, very pretty," said Jim, still grinning as he led Dolly away. Oh This was what came of everybody's always putting things like the peach crop ahead of everything else, I thought. "Ted, fetch Jim a lantern," directed Sister Renstrom. "Come in, folks. Rena, beat up some more biscuits like we had for supper. Tillie, take Miss Mallory up to Rena's room where she can into some dry _ clothes. Father," she added, addressing Brother Renstrom, "you'd better find something Brother Mallory can wear." Everyone became very busy. The somewhat plump woman addressed as Renashe must have been approaching thirty was already demonstrating that when her mother asked for beaten biscuits she meant just that. Rena had arched black eyebrows, black hair scooped back and piled high, soft, delicately pink cheeks, and a chin that, in spite of the roundness of her pretty face, somehow came to a sort of pointed effect. She seemed to concentrate utterly on the work at hand, there in the warm kitchen. Then Brother Renstrom marched upstairs with my suitcases, followed by Uncle Eli with his miserably wet little canvas bag of laundry. Ham was already frying, and Sister Renstrom was setting the table, before the daughter Tillie and I mounted the stairs. My suitcases contained plenty of clothes to choose from, but I knew that Uncle Eli had practically nothing of his own to put on. Glancing in the mirror as I removed the ruined hat, I observed how the black ribbon had streaked the white beading and faded old dress. I'd choose nothing that suggested pink, to remind anyone of this bedraggled dress with its muddy dust ruffle. I selected an Alice blue cotton with no trimming except wide ruffles of the goods, around the shoulders, yoke, and hem. What a supper was waiting when I returned to the warm kitchen! Rena kept urging second helpings on Uncle Eli and me. When Ted had lit a fire in the parlor, he and Jim joined us for the dessert. Well, as the group became better acquainted, we learned that Jim was the Sunday School chorister. Although Rena was Sunday School secretary, she was also organist for the ward choir. And since Jim was not right sure how the new practice song should be sung, and he could remember Uncle Eli as. Stake chorister, naturally he asked for Uncle Eli's opinion. Next thing we knew, we were in the parlor, and Rena was playing the organ, while Jim and Uncle Eli sang, first softly, and then a little louder. Finally Jim had little Tillie and me singing soprano, while Sister Renstrom and Rena took the alto, and Brother Renstrom and Ted supplied the bass. It was interesting to see Uncle Eli maintaining his dignity in a white shirt and some cotton wash trousers of Jim's, with both shirt sleeves and trouser legs a trifle too short. And how sweetly Rena looked up inquiringly at him to be clued as to the way he wanted the music played, and, A Horse and Buggy Romance suddenly, you saw that her eyes weren't brown, but a beautiful cornflower blue. It was her long black eyelashes that made her eyes seem brown. Then I played the organ while we sang other Sunday School songs, and presently some popular songs of the day were suggested. Jim got his guitar, and Rena took to the organ again. Rena not only read notes, she played by ear, too, which meant that any tune she had heard, she could play right off, whereas I had to keep my eyes on the music book. Still, I had held my own pretty well. Uncle Eli had hardly been fair to make it known at home that he was not singing and harmonizing without Aunt Maria. For now here he was gaily singing, not just the hymns of the gospel, but some of the gayhearted songs of recent years, as well. Once his hand unconsciously nearly alighted on Rena's shoulder, and then as quickly dropped to his side. Next morning after a wonderful breakfast, which included the best omelette I had ever tasted, the men went up to get the buggy. Soon Uncle Eli and I reported to our respective duties in town, and the summer proceeded according to plan. It was not exactly love at first sight with Uncle Eli and Rena. But Uncle Eli arranged for a series of second sights. When he visited Verona in his capacity as high councilman, naturally he inspected the Sunday School records to see that Rena kept them properly. In the afternoon he found occasion to discuss the organ music with Rena before 261 April 1969 or after meeting. And the brother who accompanied Uncle Eli on the visits evidently saw how the land lay, and suggested that frequent visits to the Verona Ward by Brother Mallory were desirable. So in the not too long and winding course of time Uncle Eli had won a bride and a mother for his four youngsters. As for Jim and me, after his first amused glance at my drooping hat, I never again wondered which fellow I liked best. And, since Jim was the right one, he managed to find the way to Father's orchard whenever his mother needed some cantaloupes, melons, or her canning peaches. During those calls he told me about the crops he raised on the dry farm he was paying for. When Father arrived, he was perfectly willing for me to ride with Jim in his single buggy, and, later, in the Renstrom's cutter during the winter. By spring Jim and I had our wedding all planned for just a little later than Uncle Eli's and Aunt Rena's. So you see, I learned that Mother was correct about the way being opened up for the rignt one to manage to get through the canyons to see me. If you do what's best for everyone else, it usually turns out to be what's really best for yourself as well. Look at Uncle Eli. Look at Aunt Rena. And look at me and at your father. Two whitetop buggies and a single buggy went through the canyons to take the families to the temple when Uncle Eli and Aunt Rena were married. But it took two whitetops and three single buggies to get the families to our wedding, for Nephi was home from his mission by then, and one of his missionary friends, who had become interested in our younger sister, went with him. Father said perhaps we should have just stayed on the dry farm, to be near the temple. Mother said that maybe there wouldn't have been so many desirable weddings, if we had. But then, I did say at the very beginning that it was a_ horse and buggy romance, now, didn't I? Iris W. Schow, Brigham City, Utah, winner of the first prize in the short story contest, is talented in both prose and poetry writing. Her interpretations of regional writing are especially effective. Her work has been recognized in her home state and nationally. Iris Schow was only ten years old when one of her poems was published in The Juvenile Instructor and was awarded a special prize. This early encouragement and continued recognition by the Church publications have been greatly appreciated. She has placed in the Relief Society Poem Contest, and her stories and poems, showing remarkable versatility and craftsmanship, have appeared in many issues of The Relief Society Magazine. She is the eldest of six children, and her mother, Eleanor Welch Schow, is a poet of note, having placed in the Relief Society Poem Contest, and having her work frequently published in the Church magazines and elsewhere. Lris Schow has served as Utah State President of the American Penwomen and as Pacific South Regional Editor for the National League of American Penwomen. She is a member of the Utah State Poetry Society and the League of Utah Writers. She holds a degree in elementary education, with a minor in English. Her Church work has included stake and ward positions in Sunday School. 262 SECOND PRIZE STORY Mamma and the Teddy Bear Lael J. Littke @ Bishop Carlson always said that if all the members of our ward magnified their callings the way Mama did hers as Relief Society president, we wouldn't even need him. He said Mama was a person who would always walk the second mile with you: Papa said she not only walked the second mile, she went all the way home with you, cooked your dinner, served it to you, and then while you ate she got up and patched your roof. Which was exactly what she was doing the day she broke her leg. Patching a roof, I mean. Linda and I had just arrived home from a swimming lesson that summer day when little Billy Sharp came pounding at our door. His eyes were enormous in his pale face. "Come quick," he _ gasped. "Your Mama fell off Grandma Winkle's roof and she's broke. She wants you to come." It was four blocks to Grandma Winkle's little house, but I think Linda and I were there practically before Billy finished speaking. Mama, surrounded by several of Grandma Winkle's neighbors, was lying on the grass propped up on sofa pillows. She was, as usual, in complete charge of the situation and we wouldn't have known she was "broke" except that the smile she gave us was rather pinched, as if she were pasting it over a cry of pain. Our little sister, Cissie, was sitting by her head clutching her ever-present stuffed bear, Mrs. Teddy, and sobbing. "Mama," Linda and I said together as we knelt by her side. Linda is fourteen and I'm twelve, but we started crying like babies. "Tt's all right," Mama said briskly. "I have just had a little accident. I think my leg is broken, but don't worry about it." "She fell off the ceiling," wept Cissie. "The roof," Mama corrected. "T was fixing a leak. The ladder slipped." A few blocks away we heard the wail of an ambulance siren.
263 April 1969

 "There it comes," said old Mr. Dawson, who had only been hobbling around looking for some way to help. "Do you want I should phone your husband, Mrs. Hastings?" "Thank you, Mr. Dawson," Mama said, "but my daughters will do that." "Won't let me do anything," grumbled Mr. Dawson. "Would have called the ambulance hersélf if she could have stood up." Grandma Winkle hovered nearby, wringing her hands and saying she shouldn't have let Mama go upon the roof. "But don't you worry about your family while you're gone," she _ said. "I'll go over and see that they're fed." The ambulance was. Coming down Grandma Winkle's street, and Mama almost had to shout to be heard. "No," she said, "your arthritis is too bad for you to be gallivanting around like that. My girls can take care of everything." Other people were crowding around offering to do_ things, but Mama pulled Linda and me close. "IT want you to run right home and clean up the house," she whispered. "The Relief Society ladies will probably come by a little later and I went off and left the dishes in the sink after lunch. You get things cleaned up and then tell them you can get along just fine. They've all got enough to do without bothering. About what you girls are perfectly capable of doing." Before Linda and I had time to comment, the ambulance had parked and two white-coated men 264 jumped out, examined Mama briefly, and lifted her onto a stretcher which they put inside. While one man asked a few questions, the other got in and started the motor. Cissie pounded on the glass window of the ambulance and held up her bear, but all Mama could do was smile at her. "I wanted Mama to have Mrs. Teddy," Cissie cried as the long white vehicle shrieked away. Sister Feeney, Mama's first counselor, arrived just in time to see it disappear down the street. "I came as soon as I heard," she puffed. 'Come along, we'd better go call your father. Ill go home with you and stay until he comes." "No, you don't need to," Linda said in a voice that sounded almost like Mama's. '"We'll take care of everything. We don't want to bother anyone." "Fiddle-dee-dee," said Sister Feeney. "Sure, it's little enough chance any of us get to do anything for your mother. Come along now. I'm in charge." "Yes, ma'am," Linda said meekly, and I could tell she was glad to let Sister Feeney take over.. By the time Papa came home several hours later and told us Mama was doing fine in spite of her broken leg, Sister Feeney had a whole list of ladies who had offered to cook dinner and clean house for us until Mama got well. When Papa looked at it, he said, 'I can't tell you how much I appreciate this. Anne will probably be able to come home from the hospital tomorrow afternoon since the doctor says the break isn't a bad one." He looked at Sister Feeney and hesitated a little. "She'll have to take things pretty easy for a while, but I just don't know what she will say about this," he said, indicating the list. "You know how she is." "Well," Sister Feeney said firmly, "we just won't let her say anything." But it's practically impossible not to let Mama say anything. Papa brought her home the next afternoon with her leg all encased in plaster, and she had no sooner got inside the house than she started telling us what to do. She had_Papa pull out the sofa bed in the living room even though he said she would be able to rest better in her own bed upstairs. "Why, I wouldn't know what was going on if I was stuck way up there," she said. She looked up at Linda, Cissie, and me clustered around the sofa, our eyes enormous with concern. "Why so serious?" she laughed. "I've always wanted a career on the stage, and now I have a part in a cast." It takes more than a broken leg to get Mama down. It wasn't long until she started thinking about dinner. We told her then about Sister Feeney's list and how the Relief Society ladies were going to come in and do things for us. "Sister Frandsen is bringing our dinner tonight," Linda said, "and Grandma Winkle tomorrow night." "Nonsense," Mama said.. "Sister Frandsen is busy enough with her six children and her husband sick the way he is. And Grandma Winkle can't get around well Mamma and the Teddy Bear enough to be_ trotting over here." She asked Papa to bring her the telephone. "I'm going to call Sister Feeney right now and tell her it isn't necessary, not when I have two big girls to help me." She smiled at Linda and me. Cissie was leaning against the sofa clutching Mrs. Teddy and touching Mama now and then to make sure she really was all right. "Mama," she said, "what can I do for you?" Mama put an arm around her and gave her a little squeeze. "Just be my good little girl, honey," she said, taking the telephone Papa handed her. Cissie pulled away and walked over to the window where she stood sucking one of Mrs. Teddy's ears and staring out of the window, but Mama didn't notice because she was dialing Sister Feeney's number. April 1969 When Mama talked to Sister Feeney, it was like the irresistible force meeting the immovable object that my sixth grade teacher told us about. But not even an immovable object can hold out against Mama. She was very tactful about it, of course. The way she put it, Linda and my chances of becoming good future homemakers would be ruined if we didn't take this opportunity to learn what it was all about. Evidently she convinced Sister Feeney because when she hung up she said, "All right now, girls, get the leftover roast out of the refrigerator and I'll tell you what to do with it." Even though Mama wouldn't let the Relief Society ladies provide our meals, people started coming over the next day and a lot of them brought food. Mama always thanked them, but then she would suggest that they take it to some family in our ward who really needed it. She did it so sweetly that the people went off to deliver their offerings elsewhere, feeling as if that had been their idea in the first place. Some of the people didn't bring food and Sister Frandsen came saying she didn't have anything but herself to bring, but that she wanted to help out by washing dishes or doing some Ironing or something. Mama assured her that the dishes were all washed and that I was the best little ironer she had ever seen, which made me so proud that it was several minutes before I realized I just hated to iron. Sister Frandsen rubbed her hands together as if she wanted to do something with them and 266 said, "But you've done so much for Bud and me and the kids." "Now, that's. All right," Mama said. "I enjoyed every minute of it. You have such a lovely family." Sister Frandsen's tired face lit up, but as she left she looked around to see if there was something she could do. Lots of other people came wanting to do things. When old Mr. Dawson, who isn't even a member of our Church, came over he wanted to cultivate Mama's flower beds, but Mama assured him that Papa needed the exercise. Old Mr. Dawson stood there in his shabby clothes fumbling with his hat. "I sure would like to do something for you," he said softly. '"You're always inviting me to dinner and bringing me cakes and all. You're always giving me _ s0 much." Mama reached out for his hand. "That's all right, Mr. Dawson," she said. "It's more blessed to give than to receive, you know." Mr. Dawson nodded as he shuffled toward the door. "Yeah," he mumbled, "I know." He looked so forlorn that I wanted to do something for him, but I didn't know what. I guess Linda felt the same way because after he left, she said, "Mama, maybe you should have let him do what he wanted." "Oh, no," Mama said. "That poor man has so little strength that I surely don't want him using it all digging my flower beds. And now, girls, I think you'd better run to the market and get the list of things I wrote out." Cissie, who had been playing quietly in a corner with Mrs. Teddy, got up and ran to Mama's side. "I'll take care of you while they're gone," she _ said. "I'd read a story to you if I knew how." "That's sweet of you, darling," Mama said, "but why don't you ask Linda to comb your hair and then they can drop you off to play with Lori when they go to the store." Cissie's bright little — face crumpled as she clutched Mrs. Teddy tighter and turned to go with us, but she didn't say anything. In fact, she hardly said a word the rest of the day. It wasn't until we were all gathered around Mama's sofa bed after family prayer that her face suddenly lost its gloom. "Mama," she said, as if an idea had struck her, "don't you get awful lonesome _ sleeping downstairs alone?" "Yes, Ido,' said Mama. "That's why I'm so glad when morning comes and you all come down to keep me company." Mamma and the Teddy Bear Cissie smiled broadly. "You don't need to be lonesome tonight. I'm going to let you have Mrs. Teddy to sleep with you. She can't do anything; she can't even say anything. Here." But she can be "Why, "how thoughtful of you. Mrs. Teddy would be unhappy away from you. You keep her." Cissie stood looking at Mama for a long moment, her eyes Mama said, But Cissie,"' slowly filling with tears. Surprised, Mama held out her arms, but Cissie turned and ran up the stairs so fast that she stumbled on her long nightgown. Weall watched her go. Nobody spoke until Mama said, "I have a feeling I've done something wrong. I should have let her do something for me." Papa nodded, and we all waited. Mama made a little gesture with her hand. "It's just that I'm so used to doing everything 

267 April 1969

 for her that I guess I didn't consider she might really want to do something." Papa cleared his throat and said softly, "Perhaps those for whom we do the most have the greatest need to do something in return." Mama thought about that. "You mean like Sister Frandsen and Mr. Dawson and all the rest?" Papa nodded again. Mama looked at her cumbersome cast. "I guess I'm like a surgeon who doesn't know what his patients go through until he has an operation," she said. "I've had such a good life and have been so healthy that I've never realized what it's like to have to be on the receiving end." She smiled at Papa, Linda, and me. "Now, I want all of you to go to bed so that this old dog can lie here and think about learning some new tricks." The first thing Mama did the next morning was ask Cissie if Mrs. Teddy could spend the day on the sofa with her. "And why don't you paint some pictures on my cast?" she said. "Then I can have something pretty to look at." Cissie glowed with satisfaction as she gave up her beloved bear and went for her crayons. Mrs. Frandsen came. Over before we had even finished breakfast, saying that she was going to do the dishes that morning or know the reason why. Mama said she certainly appreciated her doing that, and if she had just a moment maybe she could whip up one of her delicious chocolate cakes. Sister Frandsen said she would 268 be delighted, and furthermore she intended to stay and do our washing since Brother Frandsen was well enough to watch the children for awhile. Old Mr. Dawson was the next to come, bringing with him a small pail of parsnips. "Grew them myself," he said. "Thought you might like to taste them." "Why, Mr. Dawson," Mama said. "I haven't tasted parsnips in years. I'll ask Sister Frandsen if she'll put them in the oven with some spareribs that we have in the freezer, and we'll have them this very day." Mr. Dawson looked pleased. "Grew them myself," he said again. "Can't always find them in the stores nowadays." "You always were the best gardener around," Mama said. "By the way, I wonder if I could get you to trim my rosebushes while you're here. They need doing, and my husband isn't too good at it." "You betcha," Mr. Dawson said happily, "Ill fix them up for you." He whistled as he went out into our yard. We were proud of Mama that day. She just lay there on the sofa bed with her gaily colored cast propped up and Mrs. Teddy by her side, accepting graciously whatever favor anyone wanted to do for her. When Papa came home from work she told him all about it, and then said, "You know, I never thought about it before, but in order for someone to be blessed by giving, someone else has to receive." She laughed a little. "People have been doing so much for us that Linda and Darlene aren't getting any homemaking practice at all." Papa grinned. "Perhaps they're learning a more valuable lesson," he said. "Well, I've certainly learned one," Mama said, "and it's that compassion hasmany facets." She looked at Cissie. "And you know what? It was Mrs. Teddy who taught me." Cissie's little face was proud. Mamma and the Teddy Bear "Mrs. Teddy learned a _ lesson, too,' she piped, "and it's that she isn't nearly as useless as she thought she was." "Youre absolutely right," Mamasaid, picking up Mrs. Teddy and kissing her right on her battered nose.