[Vol45 | May 1958 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Fiction | Title: The | Author: Yost]
[The Finish Frances C. Yost]

This story is like a string of sausages. You really haven't a story here no matter how well you tell it. Suppose, instead, that you start with a young woman who feels a deep hunger for something that she has never known. But the reader is more perceptive than this girl; the reader knows what she wants. She needs to get away from the pressures of city life and find peace in country tranquility. At the very opening of the story the reader wants this, and can't see why the girl doesn't see it, too. Then the right husband, the birth of the baby, are both moves toward what the reader wants for her—the relaxed life and peace of the country. 3. The things that keep a reader in suspense throughout a story differ so much with different stories that you may have to be your own judge as to whether the reader will be worried or not. But the reader wants to be worried, and he'll be disappointed if he isn't. More of my friends and students get their stories back marked predictable than for any other reason. Now look, you say, if the reader knows right at first just what she wants for this central character and knows that by the rules of story telling she'll have to get it, then isn't every story predictable? 'The answer is that if the story is considered as a mental puzzle it might be. However, if the story is well 299 written, and the obstacles and hurdles that are placed in the character's way are convincing, emotionally the reader will accept the story and worry. 'These obstacles shouldn't be contrived. 'They should grow out of the weakness of the character, the strength of her opponents, the influence of the environment. 'They must not be just made up. T is lucky for you that you have recently read Hamlet. Check the play again for the elements that kept you worried. Of course, since Hamlet is a tragedy, you did not get what you wanted for him, in a way. But you got what you felt deeply was the only thing that he could get, being the man that he was. If your story is all sweetness and light and flows along like a quiet stream, it may have charm, but it doesn't have drama, and it doesn't have suspense. I spoke earlier of the dark moment. 'That is the moment when the reader is almost sure that she is not going to get what she wants for the central character. Let me remind you that the character may be getting what he wants; he may be riding blindly toward the thing he wants and the reader be in agony because the hero is making such a great mistake. Recently I was reading of a young boy who wanted more than anything else to belong even though belonging meant joining a group of young criminals. I was gripped by the story because I watched him tentatively make overtures to this evil gang. He was about to find approval from the gang's leader, Rick, but he had to "take the test'—that is, do some criminal thing. I was so afraid that he wouldn't turn back in time! 300 N the other hand, if the reader wants the thing for the character that she wants for herself, the dark moment comes when she gives up hope and almost decides not to try further. Look over your story for the elements of suspense. Remember that they are as important in the quiet story of the inner life of a middleaged woman as they are in the physical life of a teenage boy. Something that I do very frequently myself and suggest that my students do, is to read published stories and test them in this same objective way. 4. Now for the dramatic event that brings about the desired end, whether it be a realization, a change of attitude, or a goal achieved. Don't use a fire, a flood, a dying child, an accident, unless this thing is a real part of your story from the very first. Your character must solve his own problem. See? Some woman who reads your story will involve herself in it. She will actually be your main character. The reason? She has the same problem. Unconsciously she will expect the solution in the story to be a possible solution for her. She is cheated if some disaster solves the problem. How can she possibly expect the same coincidence to happen to her life? Probably the weakest crutch that writers use is the parallel case. Margie sees what Mamie did or did RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1958 not do and "comes to realize." Perhaps you won't recognize the parallel case if you have used it. It can appear in many guises. Suppose I am a young housewife chafing because I am acquiring nice things for my house very slowly. I am envious of the carpets in my neighbor's house. One day I overhear a quarrel about installment payments between my neighbor and her husband and I realize that it is better to wait than to buy when one hasn't the money. That is a parallel case solution that is disguised by having the facts a little different. Do you see what I mean? Read several stories and see if this weakness is apparent. Remember the X scene is the climax and the story should end with drama. I realize that this advice is very packed! Why don't four or five of you who are interested in writing, or even in just reading, get together and read and discuss these suggestions. Then put them away in the back of your mind and write your story.

But as you write don't think of the four questions. If you do you may freeze right at your desk. You will have paralysis by analysis. After the story is cold put it before you, ask it the questions, and make it talk back.