[Vol45 | May 1958 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: The | Author: Bailey]
Gift and the Desire Alice Morrey Bailey INE poetry, like good music, speaks to the soul, and the reader is conscious only of its message, its singing, its color, or its mood. Only close analysis and examination reveal the mechanism used by the author to gain the results. If the attention of the reader is diverted to the author by untrue premise, inconsistent metaphor, or limping technique, the senses are jarred, sometimes indefinably, as by a false note in musical rendition. The perfect balance of talent and techniques is required to produce lasting and beloved poetic work. The talent for writing poetry is a special gift—something innaée, inborn, like the gift for music, which gives a deep appreciation, perhaps a more sensitive perception, a quick compassion. It may be a great capacity for emotion, an ability to see beauty or goodness or greatness. There can be something of the sage in the makeup and, for the sake of publication, a dash of intuition. Certainly there must be a sense of music and rhythm. There are recognizable steps to become a poet, from amateur to seasoned writer—the ripening of the personality, the mastering of the skills and learning necessary for sustained production. For the beginner, talent is enough for a time, as he feels his way about, strengthens his identity, before he comes in contact with other poets and their ways of self-expression. Young people without much knowledge or training quite often write with freshness of quality from a superabundance of emotion and appreciation. They are not familiar with styles, which can easily be copied, the THE GIFT AND THE DESIRE cliches which trap the well-read poet, nor the loved expressions of other poets which linger in the mind to make partial and unwitting plagiarists of the more experienced writers. But alas! Though we must remain vibrant and intense, and in love with the world about us, we cannot continue to be young and charmingly inexperienced. Progression by learning is necessary for a continued, consistent performance. If the will is not strong enough to hurdle the knowledge needed and master the craftsmanship of polishing, the gift will become recessive or degenerate to the ability to write only jingles with superficial meaning. HILE natural talent is necessary, some gifted people overemphasize its importance and think it is unnecessary to expose it to learning. To have "never taken a lesson in my life" in any of the arts should be an indictment, not a point of pride with the talented. Competition is not a matter of talent versus learning, but a matter of untrained talent versus trained talent, before which untrained talent and untalented learning are at equal disadvantage. Goal and direction should be determined early. What is the poet's desire? 'To have one or many published poems? 'To earn money by writing poetry? 'To be known in intellectual circles as a poet? To be remembered after death? All these are surely measures of success, rewards or penalties, according to the viewpoint, but they are not the end product. Should not the poet's aim be higher? To mirror the world in a droplet of water, to catch time in a prism of words, to hold dramatic 293 moment in eternal tableau, to preserve the blossomed bough against the season's turning, are challenges to his pen. If his words carry the power of motivation—to move men to love and honor their surroundings, to think more beautifully, to achieve more nobly, to know more truly—then he tastes the true measure of success. To OnE Wuo Wou tp Be «A Poet You must bear loneliness, silence, And the starless night, You must see darkness as The counterpart of light. You must hear the crunch of leaves And sequin-crusted snow, And ache with the awareness The anointed know. You must hear the whine of wind Through the barren tree And cry out in anguish And affinity. You must thirst forever At beauty's silver spring. You must fall beaten to the earth Then rise again and sing. —Christie Lund Coles* symphony orchestra, playing the masterworks, would not use a toy piano, tin trumpets, and cardboard drums. Nor would it appear before the public with only enthusiasm and gusto in place of tedious rehearsals; yet many poets, desiring to rush into print, limit themselves as ludicrously. A scientist, preparing a study, first reads the "literature," all things previously written on the subject. Poetry can be approached as a science, inasmuch as it can be a department of systematized knowledge. Good books on technique can not only hurry the poet toward maturity in his work, but can keep the interest at high pitch and pro- 294 gressive. He can develop the sureness of specific knowledge — the poetry terms by name and definition, the various rhythms and meters, accent, delayed accent, feminine and masculine endings, to name a few. He can become proficient with writing in form, suiting form to poem, the ballad, the lyric, the sonnet. He can exercise his ingenuity with rarer forms like the triolet and the cinquain as well as the quatrain and the couplet. Poetry forms can become as familiar to him as the limerick is to the field of advertising. It is not suggested that a poet confine himself to form, particularly any set form. In fact, the contraction of the "sonnet habit' is so prevalent as to have brought this beautiful and exacting form into disfavor with many writers and editors. Whitman made his own form, not from a lack of knowledge of the established ones, but from a fierce nationalism, a lusty desire for individualism, and a feeling that his was a new-world voice which should have cast off the old; but it was his mighty thinking and his heroic words which preserved his poetry for us. It is suggested, however, that learners need the discipline of writing in forms for facility and variety, for virtuosity and mastery. *K * * x Almost it was she made her mind a loom, And words, the glowing threads, wherewith she wove _ A tapestry of life. —Margery S. Stewart? WERDS are a poet's tools.

With them he chisels his poems from the rough marble of his thoughts, or molds them from the vague clay of an idea. A good dictionary and a thesaurus should be RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1958 his much-used handbooks. Some bizarre effects are tried with word misuse in modern poetry; whatever the reason, it should not be from ignorance of the true meaning of the word, and never from incorrect pronunciation or spelling. He should properly apply diction, the choice and pronunciation of words, their use in proper order, so that he may avoid inversions and vagaries. 'The artistic writer uses understatement rather than overstatement, but employs words rich in overtones, which send the mind on journeyings. The rhyming dictionary is a good servant, but a poor master, and should be used with wisdom. Its consultation too early in writing a poem can intrigue the mind from its original intent by the presentation of interesting rhyme schemes. Prosaic tools are parts of artistry. X OK OK OK Above the painted chasm Rides the Silver Navajo; He wears a brace of silver spurs That strike an eerie glow. With eagle haste he rides To leap the wide abyss And none can find his trail In all the wilderness. (The river chants a red refrain, Driven by the flood and rain.) —Vesta P. Crawford? Imagery and metaphor are the poet's brushes, nuance, overtones, undertones, diction, his full range of colors. With them he paints with telling strokes, appealing to the senses and emotions so vividly that the swell and pound of the sea, the desert's coyote wail, the mystic canyon's red become a part of the readers experience; his first visits to them are only confirmations of what he already has known and felt. Rhythm, meter, letters, and syl- THE GIFT AND THE DESIRE lables are the tones of the poet's singing. Milton used the sibilant "s" to denote the presence of the on Many an unwitting poet has filled his spring poems with hisses. Poe used the repeated long vowel tones to create mood in "The Raven,' a poem so phonetic that even children recite it without regard to meaning, just for the joy of the sound. All poetry should be written for the ear. Many a poem pleasing to the eye or the mind sounds strident or stilted when read aloud. For this reason Whitman strode the beaches where he could be alone, reciting his long lines into the wind. It is suggested that all techniques be learned by theory and _ practice, then relegated to the subconscious in the category of tools, and not, as some artists do nowadays, let the tools, color, design, form, become the painting, used as the end product. With them in the background, the trained mind is ready for the free flow of ideas, the natural speech thythms, and can draw forth lyrics without interference. All knowledge hinted at here, and much more, is available to the determined craftsman. Books are readily catalogued to the fingertips of 295 librarians and generously loaned; even by mail, magazines are published with specific help and suggested markets; universities offer many courses in poetry appreciation and cr