[Vol45 | May 1958 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Fiction | Title: Womans | Author: Cannon]
[Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon]
1 1  Loll  le    n  LcL^lain    Ujoel  ibnjoifs  JLifelong   aiobbies 
"V/f OLLIE  McClain  Boel,  Pro\o,  Utah,  began  piecing  quilts  when  she  was  eight  years 
■^  -^  old.  In  1933  one  of  her  quilts  was  displayed  in  a  store  window  in  Provo  as  the 
grand  prize  winner  in  The  Fiovo  Heralds  Noah's  Ark  Quilting  Contest.  Now,  at  the 
age  of  eighty,  Mrs.  Boel  still  enjoys  her  quiltmaking  hobby  as  much  as  her  eyesight  will 
permit.  She  has  added  many  more  handwork  hobbies  to  her  long  list  of  accomplish- 
ments. She  has  crocheted  hundreds  of  useful  and  beautiful  articles;  she  is  skilled  in 
embroidery  work;  her  braided  rugs  have  won  much  praise  for  their  excellent  design  and 
workmanship. 
As  a  conyert  to  the  Church,  Mollic  McClain  came  to  Utah  from  Georgia  in  1905. 
She  married  Pierre  Christian  Boel,  who  died  in  1918,  leaying  Mrs.  Boel  with  three 
young  sons  to  rear,  the  eldest  only  se\en  \cars  of  age.  Two  of  these  sons  are  now  ward 
bishops.  Mrs.  Boel  has  thirteen  grandchildren  who  loye  to  yisit  in  her  home.  She 
lives  alone  and  does  all  her  own  housework.  She  has  been  a  Relief  Society  visiting 
teacher  for  thirty  years. 
C/orsi/thia 
Grace  Indies  Frost 
Forsythia  with  golden  bells 
Is  ringing  in  the  spring. 
To  help  green  thumbs  of  nature 
To  transform  everything. 
Forsythia  is  the  first  bloom. 
Its  loveliness  to  fling 
Through  springtime's  filmy  gossamer, 
And  bells  of  beauty  ring. 
Page  323

Magazine  Honor  Roll  For  1957 
Counselor  Marianne  C.  Sharp 
'T^HE  General  Board  congratulates  Society  throughout  the  world.  Presi- 
all  those  responsible  for  the  dencies  who  support  their  Magazine 
record  of  Magazine  subscriptions  representatives  also  contribute  to 
made  during  1957.  In  spite  of  the  the  well-being  of  Rehef  Society 
necessity  of  raising  the  price  to  $2,  through  having  their  sisters  sub- 
as  of  August  1957,  ^^^^^  ^^^  number  scribe  to  the  Magazine, 
of  subscriptions  reached  an  all-time  Why  is  the  Magazine  vital  to  the 
high  of  1 50,988  —  with  an  increase  work  of  Relief  Society?  It  is  a  mes- 
of  2,426  number  of  subscriptions  senger  which  carries  the  spirit  of 
over  1956.  Relief   Society  into  every  home  it 
The   substantial    increase    attests  enters.    It  instructs  on  new  policies 
the  devotion  of  Magazine  represen-  and   rules   and   sets   forth   in   both 
tatives  —  representatives  who  walked  print  and  pictures  the  activities  and 
through  storms  to  obtain  renewals  programs  of  this  world-wide  sister- 
so    that    no    issue    would    be    lost  hood.    It  records  the  history  of  Re- 
by  subscribers;  representatives  who  lief  Society.     It  teaches  approved, 
called  on   newcomers  and  who  in  outlined  courses  of  study  to  bring 
addition  to  selling  them  a  subscrip-  mental   and    spiritual    development 
tion,  let  them  know  that  Rehef  So-  and  progression.    The  Relief  Society 
ciety  was  vitally  interested  in  their  Magazine    brings     joy    to    readers 
welfare;  sisters  who,  although  home-  through  creative  writings  of  poetry 
bound,  made  telephone  contacts  for  and  prose  by  Latter-day  Saint  wom- 
Magazine  representatives;  represen-  en.      It  suggests  ways  of  improving 
tatives  who  used  their  own  cars  to  homemaking  and  ties  together  the 
reach  the  sisters  living  far  away;  rep-  sisterhood  of  the  Church.  It  indeed 
resentatives  who  returned  two  and  seems  an  essential  part  of  Relief  So- 
three  times  to  a  home  to  obtain  a  ciety  and  the  work  of  the  sisters  of 
subscription.    These  and  other  serv-  the  Church. 
ices  were  performed  by  ward  and  For  the  eleventh  consecutive  year, 
branch     Magazine     representatives  South  Los  Angeles  leads  the  stakes 
who   honored  and  magnified  their  of  the  Church  with  a  percentage  of 
calhngs.     Stake  and  mission  Maga-  251%.    South  Gate  Ward  of  South 
zine    representatives     spent    many  Los  Angeles  Stake  again  leads  the 
hours  in  giving  vital  suggestions  at  wards    with    520%.     The    Central 
union  meetings,  giving  training  in  States   Mission   leads    the   missions 
salesmanship,  keeping  Magazine  rec-  with    113%,    with    Northern    Cali- 
ords  for  the  stake  or  mission,  and  en-  fornia  just  1%  less.     The  Central 
thusing  and  encouraging  ward  and  States  Mission  also  has  the  highest 
branch  representatives.  district — West  Kansas  District  with 
The  General  Board  attaches  great  163%,    and    the    highest    mission 
significance  to  the  calling  of  a  Maga-  branch,  Oklahoma  City  Branch  with 
zine  representative.    It  is  an  unself-  350%. 
ish  service  of  great  benefit  to  Relief  There     are     eighty-eight     stakes 
Poge  324

MAGAZINE  HONOR  ROLL  FOR  1957 
325 
whose  percentage  is  100%  or  over; 
there  are  220  stakes  on  the  honor 
roll;  and  twenty  stakes  in  which  all 
the  wards  achieved  100%  or  over. 
There  are  1,854  wards  on  the  honor 
roll.  There  are  sixteen  missions  on 
the  honor  roll  in  1957  and  559 
branches. 
Ever  since  1872  the  women  of  the 
Church  have  had  their  own  publica- 
tion, and  over  the  years  the  work 
of  placing  the  publication  in  the 
homes  of  Latter-day  Saint  women 
has  been  entrusted  to  faithful  sisters 
who  have  willingly  accepted  this 
strenuous  and  exacting  but  satisfy- 
ing call.  Today  The  Relief  Society 
Magazine  representatives  give  un- 
selfishlv  of  their  time,  of  their  tal- 
ents,  and  of  themselves  to  further 
their  important  work  for  Relief  So- 
ciety. The  General  Board  extends 
its  heartfelt  thanks  to  them,  the 
presidencies,  and  to  the  subscribers 
who  help  make  a  publication  for 
women  a  continued  reality  in  the 
Church. 
uTonors  for  uiighest  LKatings 
Stake 
South  Los  Angeles  (California)  251% 
Magazine  Representative — Edna  C.  Stoutsenberger 
Ward 
South  Gate  Ward,  South  Los  Angeles  Stake  (California)  520% 
Magazine  Representative — Eva  Guynn 
Mission 
Central  States  Mission — 113% 
Mission  Relief  Society  President — May  E.  J.  Dyer 
Mission  District 
West  Kansas  District,  Central  States  Mission — 163% 
Magazine  Representative — Helen  J,  Ryan 
Mission  Branch 
Oklahoma  City  Branch — 350% 
West  Oklahoma  District,  Central  States  Mission 
Magazine  Representative — Gertrude  Russell 
Ten  Highest  Percentages  in  Stakes 
South  Los  Angeles   251... .Edna  C.  Stoutsenberger 
Glendale  
 1 82.... Elsie  Weber 
Provo    
 140. ...Flora  Buggert 
Oquirrh    
 140.. ..Helen  D.  Jensen 
Inglewood   1 36.. ..Janet  C.  Medina 
Santa  Monica   134.. ..Kathleen  Savage 
Rexburg   
 128.. ..Beth  Moore 
Burley  
 128. ...lone  Church 
Long  Beach    i24....Silva  Mahnkcn 
Burbank   
 122.... Edith  L.  McKenny