[Vol45 | May 1958 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: In | Author: Ivins]
[In Memoriam-Osar Ammon Kirkham Antoine R. Ivins]

Gn WVlemoriam Oscar Ammon Kirkham JANUARY 22, 1880 - Marcu 10, 1958 Elder Antoine R. Ivins Of the First Council of the Seventy ARLY in the morning of March 10th of the current year, Oscar Ammon Kirkham gave up the problems of mortality and passed on to his eternal reward. His going closed a life of great activity and useful service to his Church and his fellow men. He used his varied talents always in the interest of people and in his thinking, people were reduced to individuals as varied as their number. Men and boys usually were the subjects of his interest and service and it can be said that they always benefited by contact with him. A portion of his life was devoted to the study and teaching of music, but the greater part was given over to the Boy Scout work with which he was associated from the time it became a part of the Mutual Improvement program. In this service he touched the lives of literally thousands of young men upon whom his influence was always helpful and beneficial. 'These young men comprised many differing nationalities, and no one could come nearer harmonizing their thinking than Oscar. I have had scouters in far off Hawai tell me that no one in the National Councils could do more to iron out difficulties than Oscar Kirkham. He did a wonderful work and merits the thanks of thousands of men who once were boys under his guidance. After a long and most active service as above set forth, Oscar was Page 286 PRESIDENT OSCAR A. KIRKHAM brought into the First Council of the Seventy under appointment of President Heber J. Grant. In this capacity he developed the same interest in the Seventies of the Church which he had displayed in dealing with the Scouts. His interest in the Seventies was in men rather than in organizations. Always he strove to develop a pride in the assignment which ordination as a Seventy gave a man. Always he strove to teach the individual responsibility of a Seventy, realizing that in_ the strength of the individuals is to be found the strength of the group. No man reaches his maximum development without the aid of a fine supporting wife and Oscar was no OSCAR AMMON KIRKHAM exception. In all his efforts his good wife stood at his side aiding and abetting him in his missions. He married Ida Murdock in the Salt Lake Temple on the 25th day 287 of May 1904, and from that union came four sons and four daughters all worthy of their ancestry. Theirs is the problem of carrying their father's name into the future.