[Vol45 | May 1958 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Fiction | Title: Brigham | Author: Week]
BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA LEADERSHIP WEEK Brigham Young University is also planning to hold a Leadership Week in Los Angeles, California, in August 1958. 'This will be of special interest to Relief Society members in Southern California. >< All Out—All A ges—Polio Vaccination Roundup Virginia L. Blood Consultant, Women's Activities National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis Can Adults Get Polio? Yes, they can and they do. Polio hits men and women, usually striking them harder than it strikes children. While polio incidence in persons over forty is relatively low, the degree of adult involvement is definitely high. 'Three out of four respiratory patients today are twenty years or older. Don't take a chance. Take Salk shots, whatever your age. There is plenty of vaccine available today. Ask your doctor for Salk shots for your entire family. Are Parents Safe From Polio If Their Children Have Been Vaccinated? No. You must be vaccinated yourself to be protected. A vaccinated child, or adult, still can carry the polio virus without harm to himself. But he may pass it along to others still unvaccinated and therefore still susceptible. Are You Safe If Your Neighbors Have Been Vaccinated? No, and for the same reason as above. If there is no polio virus in your community, you may well be safe, and think you are immune. But you cannot be sure. Your neighbor's vaccination, like your child's, cannot give you immunity. Your own personal vaccination can do that. How Can Three Minutes Spare a Lifetime of Suffering? It takes only one minute to get one Salk shot today. It takes another MINUTE to get a second shot from two to six weeks later. And only ONE MINUTE more for a third shot seven months after that. 'Three minutes taken NOW can prevent a lifetime of needless crippling. Make arrangements to start SALK shots NOW for your entire family. a SSS oe ap -. Young len Shall See Ussions, OUNG men, young women — you are living in a wonderful day. No generation since the dawn of time has seen so much progress. None has faced such a future. Electricity, the steam engine, the telephone, the telegraph, the automobile, the airplane, the radio, the television, nuclear power they're all products of your generation. So, in a degree never before known to man, are hidden treasures of truth now being revealed. The prophets foresaw and foretold these days in the beautiful language of poetry and prophecy: "... Your old men shall dream dreams, your Page 310 YOUNG MEN SHALL SEE VISIONS 311 young men shall sce visions... And I will shew wonders in the heaven above, and signs in the earth..,." In fulfillment, a Boy Scout prepares for a merit badge test and tunes his short-wave radio to a new world of astral signals and sounds — and goes on to become a physical scientist or a designer of airplanes. He sets his sight on the stars and a globe-circling satellite is born. An inspired teacher opens the intellect and stirs the soul of a gifted pupil — and a surge of hidden forces comes alive. What visions! What dreams! \What wonders! And for you, young men and young women of the Church, what glorious opportunities, what awesome responsibilities. What can you do? If you would "find wisdom and great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasures," seek learning — by study and by faith. Keep the commandments. And with it all— BE HONEST WITH YOURSELF ->~<—— My Mothers Srust Hannah C. Ashby My mother's trust was like a star, To guide my path that led afar. She had such confidence in me, I always felt that I was free To make a choice without a bar. And yet for worlds, I would not mar That sacred tie, or leave a scat To blemish in a slight degree My mother's trust. How helpful loving mothers are, They gently leave the door ajar. The teachings at my mother's knee Have shaped my earthly destiny. The greatest debt I know, is for My mother's trust. —o<—i-o— Recompense Hazel M. Thomson I carefully plucked out each gray hair, But they returned at stepped-up pace; Today I looked into the mirror, And saw my mother's face. Recipes From the Uruguayan Mission Submitted by Louise B. Parry TOMATO SURPRISE—IOMATES SORPRESA (Salad ) Skin and cut the tomatoes in halves, remove seeds and pulp. Inside of each one of them, put a raw egg, taking care not to break. Add seasoning (salt and pepper). Cover with white sauce and grated cheese. Put in the oven for five minutes or until the egg is cooked. PARADISE Soup—Sopa PARAISO "BBs di: 4 tbsp. Parmesan cheese 4 tbsp. Bread crumbs Beat thoroughly egg whites and then add to beaten yolks. Add the bread crumbs and Parmesan cheese. Mix well and drop by spoonfuls in the bouillon, and boil for six to eight minutes. ComMBINED Soup—Sopa LIGADA 12 c. Bouillon 6 tbsp. Cheese 1% tbsp. Flour 6 egg yolks Pour into a pan the bouillon and add the flour and grated cheese. Cook well and stir constantly. In the soup bowl, beat thoroughly egg yolks and pour the bouillon over them, stirring well. SMALL Meat Pies—EMPANADAS CRIOLLAS (Main Dish) Dough: 3 c. Flour 1 tsp. Salt 2 eggs "2 c. Water 1 tbsp. Shortening Combine the flour, eggs, shortening, salt, and water. Form the dough and roll it until one-fourth inch thick. Cut in rather small squares and put one-half tablespoon of the filling in the center of each piece and fold them in half to form tnangles. Build up fluted edges on each one of fhem. Filling: 3 large onions 2 hard Oe cee 1 lb. Ground beef Taisins as desire pepper and salt to taste green olives as desired Brown in oil or margarine the onions, finely chopped, and the ground beef. Add pepper and salt to taste. When nicely browned, add the hard boiled eggs finely chopped, raisins, and green olives as desired. CrIooLLo Cooxirs—MasiTas CRIOLLAS (Dessert ) 2 eggs 2 c. Flour % c. Sugar 1 tsp. Baking powder % c. Butter Mix together the eggs, sugar, butter, flour, and baking powder and beat thoroughly. Page 312 RECIPES FROM THE URUGUAYAN MISSION 313 Shape into small cookies and put on greased baking sheet. Sprinkle with chopped almonds and confectioner's sugar. Bake in moderate oven until nicely browned. Tortas FRITAS ( Dessert ) 2 c. Flour 1 egg 1 tsp. Baking powder % ¢. Cold water 1 tsp. Salt fat for deep frying 2% tbsp. Butter Sift together the flour, baking powder, and salt. Cut in the butter and add the egg and water. Press dough into ball and knead until soft. Roll out on floured board to one-fourth inch thick. Cut with round cutter or a floured glass. Fry on both sides until golden brown; remove and drain on paper toweling.