[Vol45 | May 1958 | Sequence: 27 | Category: Article | Title: Why Not Write a Story? (continued) | Author: Helen Hinckley Jones]
If you can't do the whole story at once, each time you take up your work, type the last page or so to get back into the flow. Now your story is finished. You don't know whether it is good or terrible at this point. Some writers always feel that the story just rolled 297 out of the typewriter is a masterpiece; some always feel that it must be nothing at all. Now put the story away for a few hours or a few days. This cooling off period is absolutely necessary. Don't neglect it. After this cooling off period, pick it up and read it for pleasure. Having read the story for enjoyment, you are ready for the hardest job of all: the revision. It is time to ask your story four questions. 1. Whose story is this? Do we feel strongly about the central character? 2. What do we want for the hero or the heroine? 3. What keeps us worried throughout the story? Is there a point at which we almost despair? 4. What dramatic event gives the character the thing we want her to have? These questions may seem elementary to you, but believe me, they are the test of a well-formed story. In asking them, we are excluding only one type of story—the epiphany or revelation. In this story the average reader sees only a character sketch or a mood piece. Actually, the writer has tried to open for the reader a long view into an otherwise dark world. 'These stories are difficult to read and difficult to write, so we won't bother with them nght now. We want to tell a story that the people whom we know will read with more than pleasure. We want to communicate to our own peers, so give close attention to the answers your story gives to each of the following questions: 1. Whose story is this? Why, that's easy, you say. But it isn't. Frequently, other characters get into the way of a clean, pure story line. The story editor of four excellent 298 TV shows told me that his staff gets stories all the time in which they can't decide which role should be given to the "name star." Was the woman the star? The man? The heavy? A story like this is either rejected or rewritten. Keep in mind that the point-of-view character doesn't always own the story. We may see through the eyes of the child the storv of the mother or of the big sister or the teacher; through the eyes of the mother, the story of the teenager suffering in the process of growing up. GENERAL rule—and rules have all sorts of variations—is that the owner of the story is the person who brings about the desired end. If the story belongs to the evil character something he does must bring his destruction. Now that vou have a finished story before you, you can see whether or not the central ia solves her own problem.. Frequently new writers get all tied up with the second question: What do we want for the hero or the heroine? That is because thev figure that the reader should agree with the central character about what the goal should be. This is sometimes true, but often it isn't. A hero may want revenge, and what we want for him is the ability to forgive. The heroine may want to marry a young scientist new in her town who has a different religious background; what we want for her lS marriage with the clean-faced young student who shares her background. Once I invented a_ short-storv formula which I secretly thought might revolutionize story telling as did O'Henry's. I called it the socia] justice formula. In my story a RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1958 lovable character was introduced, and the reader was encouraged to expect something good for him. In the end this deserving man didn't get what we wanted him to have— and he, himself, wanted — because of social injustice. In one story a tired little woman had given her life to supervising the ladies' room in a large department store. I knew such a lady, diminutive, bird-like, still with her heavy Cockney accemi, he aa grew out of the "what if.! ' train of thought. Anyway, the aa thought as the story progressed that the woman's boss was retiring her to a beautiful little apartment — sort of in gratitude for her faithful service. The reader discovered in the last line that the little woman was merely being given an advance peek at a newly decorated store powder room, I must have written almost forty stories on this formula, and I got them back from all the best places, sometimes with encouraging notes on the characterization. "Please try us again." "Your next story may be more in line with our editorial policy' 2 At last one editor was kind enough to be cruel. He wrote a note: "Society didn't cheat that woman. You did." HE reader should want something definite for the central character from a very early point in the story. Sometimes a storv breaks in two because the author changes the want. Or a want is fulfilled and another one is introduced. Ask your storv if the reader knows what to want for the central character by the time she has finished the first page. Ask vour story if that want is fulfilled in the last paragraph. If you can answer both of these ques- WHY NOT WRITE A STORY? Tions with an absolute yes, you have a well-defined story line. Let's check on a story that fails to answer yes to these questions. You start with a lovable young woman. You want her to marry the right man. She does. You want her to have a baby. She does. You want her to move to the country. She does.