VISIT TO SWEDEN.

	How well I remember two years ago to-day,
when I was on a visit to Sweden at my pater-
nal home, it was the last day I was to be at my
mother's, and my brothers and sisters were
there, and the sweet little children of my bro-
ther's. O, how many times I took them in my
arms and kissed them good-bye on that grand
day in my native land; it was a midsummer
day, when everything is so beautiful in that
country. The fields were all in blossom and
the songs of birds of various kinds made such
sweet melody in the early morning. It was
such an enjoyment to be among our friends
and partake with them of the good things pre-
pared to nourish and strengthen the body,
which they so hospitably extended for our
comfort. Oh, that warm-hearted people, rich
and poor giving bountifully as I visited them
from place to place talking about the Gospel;
how my heart did burn with love for them,
talking with them sometimes by the wayside,
or passing by the waters of the beautiful
streams of my dear native land, oh, how I felt
a deep desire that they might wish to be bap-
tized, may that seed of the Gospel which was
sown in their hearts, grow, and the time come
when they will be ready to embrace it. I [---]

[Column 2]
feel the love of a kind-hearted Father in heaven
for his children here upon earth.
	The people in Sweden are a very industrious
and hard-working people, but work for very
small wages—women and children as well as
men; we saw small boys about seven years old
and upwards with two heavy buckets to gather
the precious mineral out of the large copper
mines in the city of Falen, their little, tender
fingers among the rough ore.
	The children there are all taught to be po-
lite, rich and poor; when they meet any one
they lift their hats and bow. They have good
schools and the people are very sociable and
polite, and their mode of acting in the dining
hall would be very hard for a stranger to fol-
low and practice, it is very particular and
formal, at the same time it is a very lively and
sociable one.
	We had a pleasant trip over the canal road
between Stockholm and Goteborg, and then
over the North Sea in a steamer in company
with many intelligent Swedes, and arrived in
Liverpool on a Sunday morning and attended
church there and heard the sectarian priests
talking to the congregation about worshipping
a God without body, parts or passions, and
that same God without a body was able to
stretch out His almighty arm to help any in
need of help. In the afternoon we started for
London and arrived rather late in the evening
and stopped at the Temperance Hotel, opposite
the great Northern Hotel, there was a great
traffic carried on there, and the electric light
from the street was quite sufficient to light my
room; it was very beautiful, never in my life
have I seen such a sight. My husband had
friends in London that he made calls upon.
We went out to hunt up some of our relations.
We visited St. James' Park and many other
beautiful places in that great city. We went
to Pimlico and saw the large pork pie estab-
lishment owned by a cousin of my husband's,
the establishment where it is said there are
made 6,000 pounds of pies in a day, that are
sold in the pastry shops all over London. They
are called "Wathling's pork pies."
	We dined with the gentleman owner, Mr.
James Bird. He has a very fine establish-
ment; from there we went to the Clapham
Road Station to see some more of our rela-
tives, my sister and brother-in-law. He wel-
comed us with a box of delicious strawberries
in his hands; the meeting was good and the
greeting was loving. Such varied changes of
scenery: no tongue can tell, no pen can write
the charms of the beautiful scenery of the
British Isles. Wherever we went we were res-
pectfully received and found friends, and
whenever we had an opportunity to reason up-
on the principles of the Gospel, we did so.
Wherever we travelled we came in contact
with different nationalities, many of the lan-
guages I understood, though my husband
could only speak English, and whenever I
spoke to the people in their own language and
told them of the truth of the Gospel, it was to
their astonishment; and I am thankful to God
for the privilege I had to go back and present
myself before my friends and relatives in Swe-
den and other places, that they could see for
themselves that I had not been "food for the
fishes in the sea," as they had feared, as a
friend of mine had told the people the Luther-
an priest had said in my own neighborhood at
home. Thanks be to God that I am here again
in Utah.
	In Sweden, in the city of Falun, we visited
a large copper mine which yields some gold,
some silver, and some copper. We also visited
extensive iron mines and large foundries, where
the big hammer is preparing and moulding the
long bars of iron. My husband was very
pleased to see this kind of work, and said he
would not like to have missed it. On our way
[---] [---] we saw his [---] [---] [---] [---] [---] [---]

[Column 3]
There we saw all specimens of iron work, from
the smallest article to the largest manufactured
from iron. Wood work, glass work, copper
and china, all made in the vicinity of that
place. All kinds of horses, cattle and ani-
mals, etc.
	Gafle is a fine city, rebuilt; some of the
streets are as wide as here in Salt Lake. In
the evening of that day we left there and
went on the steamer from Gafle for Stockholm,
where we were kindly received by Brother
Benson, of Logan, Utah. He was the first
Latter-day Saint we had seen after we parted
with the missionaries in England. It was in
the beginning of July. We spent a few days
in Stockholm, in that grand old romantic city;
visited the beautiful scenery, hills and dales,
small steamers in water and little ones to cross
over to them, as well as large ships and little
sail boats, it all helps to make it lively and in-
teresting; and we visited on of the grandest
stores, where almost everything can be pur-
chased in jewelry, etc., rooms foreach varie-
ty; and we saw some English people buying or-
naments; it is a Jewish store, kept by Joseph
Lija. I must not leave out the Saints. We
stayed there over Sunday and had a very good
congregation, everything so clean and inviting
about the meeting house, and a very good spir-
it prevailed in the meeting. My husband was
called upon to speak and I interpreted for him;
again on Monday there was a meeting, and I
can truly say I enjoyed myself very much a-
mong the saints there, they are a true and
warm-hearted people; I say, God bless them.
	On the Fourth of July we left Stockholm
and started on the steamer for Gateborg. We
stayed there two days and three nights and
then left for England, sailing for Hull, in
company with Swedes and Finns. After
spending nearly two months in London we
left for America the first of September, 1882,
in company with the saints and some of the
returning missionaries, on the S. S. Wyoming.
	Our trip over the sea was not a very pleas-
ant one to me because of sea-sickness. We
were on the water going and coming quite as
muck as one month. My prayer is that God
who knows all things will bless our desires to
do good everywhere.		E. H. BIRD.


