BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

(To be Continued.)

	We started from this place about eight a.m.,
and on ascending the opposite hill saw that
President B. Young had not yet started, so our
company stopped and waited till their teams
had got out of the way, when we went on,
crossing the bridge which they had just built.
"This," Horace says, "like the one at the
"Sleeping Rock," had no other foundation than
floodwood."
	We passed through the timber, and after
crossing a small bottom and ascending a hill on
the opposite side of the river, there we saw a
grave, which was covered with logs laid up in
an oblong form and about three feet high,
something like a log building. The stream we
crossed was called by the Indians the "Nishinie
Botany Run." We were told that the grave
we saw was that of one of the brethren in Bro.
Wright's company. We stopped again about
noon and baited our cattle while waiting for a
bridge to be finished, and camped that night
on a "divide" near timber, with quite a large
creek on one side and a branch of the same on
the other. Here we met Bro. Cummings, who
had come from Council Bluffs the day before,

[Column 2]
with the information that Bro. Emmet's com-
pany were thirty miles below the Bluffs on
the river, and had taken jobs of work there in
order to get provisions to prosecute their jour-
ney. He also said that twelve wagons, "Mor-
mons," had come up from St. Louis, and that
a U. S. officer had told them that he was order-
ed to prohibit all suspicious persons from cross-
ing the State line, hinting that the "Mormons"
were the persons meant.
	Friday, 12th. We were not able to start
till nearly noon, having to build another bridge.
Early in the morning father called the people
of the camp together and selected twenty-five
men to go to work at the bridge. President
Young and Bishop Miller also assisted; they
were encamped within a short distance of
us.
	"Saturday, 31st," Horace wrote, "we were
detained this morning about the same length of
time we were yesterday morning in building a
bridge—we then started—the weather sultry.
We stopped about two o'clock p.m., baited our
cattle, and had to drive them about a mile to
water, in fact there has been so much dry
weather and so little rain in this part that
there is a great drought throughout the coun-
try.	*	*	*	Bro. K. went ahead
to look out a good camping ground, he return-
ed, having found one, and we all started and
went a mile and a half further—somewhat out
of our way in order to have a good place for
our cattle."
	According to Horace's journal we were now
in sight of Council Bluffs on "Musquito
Creek," where they had to stop to build another
bridge before we could proceed further, and
then we had to retrace our steps and travel six
miles round to accomplish the two miles a-
cross to the river.
	Horace wrote: "Traveled about ten miles to-
day. We found another beautiful spring of
water in this place, in fact the ground here ap-
pears to be full of springs. The scenery a-
round us is entirely different from that through
which we have hitherto been traveling, abound-
ing in hills and dales and murmuring rivulets
aud considerably resembles that of the New
England States."
	The heat of the weather was now at its
height, and the whole country around abound-
ed in straw-berries, rasp-berries and black-ber-
ries, and other fruits indigenous to the coun-
try; and the day following our arrival there a
number of our girls went out strawberrying.
this was Sunday, and father rode over about a
mile to President Young's camp, and learned
there that Bishop Miller had been to see the a-
gents, who agreed to furnish spokes and pitch
for the building of a ferry boat; if, after the
church had all crossed, they would give it up
to them. They wished us to have nothing to
say to the Indians in the way of tampering
with them. Our companies had no disposition
to do this, but it was nothing strange that they
should view us, or any other white people, with
suspicion, for they had generally been mean
and dishonest in their dealings with the
Indians; besides, they had been warned by a
United States officer to beware of us, but we
had too much at stake to take advantage of
the tribes, traveling as we were through their
Territories.
	There were certain ones in camp at the early
start who received severe rebukes from the
Presidency for being dishonest. One was the
case of a young man in Bishop Miller's camp,
who undertook to pass counterfeit money in
pay for cattle, etc. The Bishop wrote to Presi-
dent Young to excuse the young man, but
wished him to make restitution to Mr. Cochran,
the man who had been cheated by him—but
for which the Bishop received an awful rebuke,
aud was ordered to restore the property. It
was soon discovered that such characters were
not wanted among us, nor were they to be sus-

[Column 3]
tained in the camp, for the most strict laws and
rules were laid down in their council held at
Chariton, where they organized the camp.
Here are a few words from President Young's
remarks, made on the following Sabbath: "I
told them I was satisfied that the course we
were taking would prove to be the salvation,
not only of this camp, but of the Saints left
behind; but there had been things done which
were wrong. Some pleaded our suffering from
persecution, and the loss of our houses and
property, as a justification for retaliating upon
our enemies, but such a course tends to des-
troy the Kingdom of God."
	The whole of the camp started in the after-
noon and encamped on the bank of the Mis-
souri River about a mile above the trading
houses, where we saw a number of Indians and
half-breeds, who were riding about accompan-
ied by the agent, trading horses at the settle-
ment below.
	"Soon after our arrival," Horace wrote, "the
brethren met in council on the bank of the
river, to lay down certain rules for our observ-
ance while we remain here. They are as fol-
lows: Every fourth man is to assist in build-
ing the boat; one or two out of each ten to
herd cattle; while others are to go out in the
country to trade for provisions. There was a
committee of three appointed, viz., father,
Brother Rockwood and Bishop Miller, to wait
on the agents and ascertain the prices of things;
meanwhile no man is permitted to have any
traffic with the inhabitants or Indians without
having permission so to do from the proper
source."


