DESULTORY THOUGHTS.

	The General Conference just passed was na
eventful one to this people. One never to be
forgotten. The crowds of worshippers who as-
sembled day after day in the large Tabernacle
in this city to hear the words of inspiration that
seemed to flow on and on like a river from the
lips of the servants of God, were indeed a sight
to gaze upon. When the immense building was
filled, the yards were crowded with those who
failed to obtain a seat in time. There is not
room for all the saints inside the Tabernacle,
even, those who come together for the Confer-
ences.
	There was an excellent spirit among the peo-
ple, a spirit of humility and obedience, which
the Scripture says is better than sacrifice; and
yet the L. D. S have and do make sacrifices,
and the Lord has has said He will have a people
who have made a covenant by sacrifice. Surely
the covenant of celestial marriage, that the
saints practice, is a covenant by sacrifice—for
one must lay aside all pride and ambition of the
world when they take up this cross. They must
bear persecution, slander and misrepresentation,
must be everywhere evil spoken of. This is the
consequence of serving God and walking in the
light.
	Are the women of this Church slandered?
Grossly. Ladies come here and make a business
of misrepresenting "Mormon" women. Does
it hurt those pure-minded, large-hearted wom-
en? Not so much as it hurts those who are con-
stantly hunting after evil.
	The Savior Himself, whom we hold up as a
divine example, was slandered, persecuted and
at last crucified. These ladies may wound most
acutely the sensitive soul, but they have not the
power to hinder the influence of the Holy Spir-
it which is the comforter and the support to
these women who have laid their all upon the
altar of their faith, determined that come life
or come death, they will be found on the Lord's
side, enduring all things for principle's sake that
they may attain to eternal life in the celestial
kingdom of God.
	Therefore, let the world say what they may,
let the wicked pursue unrighteousness and those
who love and make a lie continue if they choose
to do evil; but the women of the Latter-day
Saints who live according to the command-
ments of God, have a higher and nobler purpose
in view. Their lives are so busy, they have
scarcely time to think of these slanderers or to
contradict their vile assertions. And indeed is it
worth the while, unless for the sake of those
honest souls who may be deceived by such mis-
representations. Truth is eternal and will stand
all the vile aspersions cast upon it, and those
abide in the new and everlasting covenant who

[Column 2]
revealed to this generation through Joseph
Smith, the Prophet of the living God, will even-
tually triumph over all their opposers.
	Mormon women have nothing to fear. What
is the praise of the world? Only a bubble, that
passes away and is seen no more. There is
something in the Gospel which so far surpasses
all the world can give, that trials and persecu-
tions and even actual suffering and privations
can be endured with patience and heroism when
one has the peace in their hearts, that the world
can neither give nor take away—the peace that
passeth understanding. This in part explains
why the women of the Latter-day Saints can
afford to let those who circulate malicious lies
and cruel slanders to injure them, to destroy
their good name and to blacken their character
before the world, alone; their own consciences
will be sufficient when they are made to realize
what they have done. As for the Mormon wo-
men, they know in whom they trust and are
not afraid and they have that tenderness in
their hearts towards those who do not know
the truth, that they make great sacrifices that
the Gospel may be preached to them; this is
why the young and inexperienced wife will part
with her husband to go upon a mission, the
daughter with a loving father—there is no
bound to the sacrifices made by Mormon wom-
en that the Gospel may be preached in all the
world. They are not themselves called to go
to the nations of the earth, but while husbands,
fathers and brothers proclaim the Gospel abroad
they perform the duties of home, and they have
no time to go seeking after the faults of their
Gentile acquaintances; and they would scorn to
question their servants to ascertain if the hus-
band and wife lived happily together.
	Home is a sacred place, and those who seek
to destroy the homes of the saints, and to cruel-
ly separate families will have to meet the pun-
ishment which our Father in heaven hath de-
creed, even such measure as ye mete shall be
measured to you again, pressed down and run-
ning over.


