EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	My homeward passage was very gratifying in
deed over a new line of road to me, and new
scenery to interest. I made some slight notes of
this trip, which were published in the Capital,
a daily I write for occasionally.
	Since my return I have read every thing-
you gave me to Mrs. C——. Have examined
it thoroughly, and comparing the written state-
ments with my observed facts while in your
city and Territory came to the conclusion that
you were truthful and of "good intent," to say
the least. Mrs. C.'s feelings were evidently
softened towards her sisters in "Salt Lake"
when she came to know your side of the story
—before she had only read and heard the oth-
er side, much of it from the book published by
Ann Eliza the 19th. How hard it is to do
justice to ourselves, even when ancient preju-
dice triumphs. Mrs. C. is utterly opposed to the
Edmund's bill project of disfrachisement, and
we shall both fight it to the bitter end, and so
will most of our co-workers in Boston and
elsewhere.
	Among the statements I have made since

[Column 2]
my return is the following, which has made me
rather obnoxious to some of my former repub-
lican associates, I can afford to lose them all,
however, for truth and justice is worth more to
me than compromised friendship. I stated
that crime and prostitution was more than 80
per cent committed by the (so termed) Gentile
population of Utah; which statement I still feel
able to sustain. This was astounding to them,
for they had an idea and thought they knew, it
was precisely the reverse. This, of course,
they did not permit to enter the columns of
the papers, for what is published in the papers
here has a great effect on the average reader.
I also stated that all the "rum holes" in Salt
Lake City, with the exception of two, so far
as I could learn, were kept by the non-Mor-
mon population. This I adhere to yet; am I
right? Another statement whihc was equally
appalling, that all the houses of 	*	*	as
known to the police force, were kept by non-
Mormons, and as far as I could learn, by Roman
Catholic Christians. Can I sustain this? An-
other, that the soldiers of Camp Douglas had
nothing to do but drink whiskey, visit places of
amusement, etc.
	Another thing, they had in the territorial
prison in Salt Lake 62 prisoners of the rough-
est kind of criminal men, except two, and they
were and innocent woman and child, placed
there for no other reason under heaven than
that of refusing to tell who was the father of
that child. Incarcerated in that cile prison
house with sixty as vile creatures as God ever
suffered in the shape of men. A pure, clean-
looking and evidently virtuous woman with a
beautiful child just beginning to learn to walk,
kept in there and guarded as a felon, because
the majesty of the law so ordered it, accusing
her of having insulted their dignity by refus-
ing to answer their insolent questions. I told
them of the polling places, of the women voting,
and of the good behavior observed at the polls.
That the people came well dressd and with
clean faces and calm deportment-- that there
was no hurry or rowdyism permitted there, be-
cause it was as much a woman's election as a
man's. That the women seemed to understand
what they were voting for and who they were
voting for as well as the men, and that no such
quiet voting places were to be seen in any of
the states wherever I had been-- and I had
been in nearly all of them. I found one man
here in	*	*	filling an honorable place
(or what it ought to be) who did not know even
that the women voted in Utah. The great ar-
gument has been that you are all growing
up in ignorance on account of your poor school
system, but when I told them that Utah stood
nearly as high in educational status as the
people of Massachusetts, (using a nautical
phrase) they were all taken aback.
	Now the facts of my observations are, that
for the seven weeks I spent in your beautiful
city, I saw more wickedness, badness among
the gentiles than the Mormons. The Mormon
ideas of religion seem very absurd to me. If
it were mere children's play it would seem
more in place, but for the plan and way of sal-
vation it to me is simply ridiculous, yet no
more so than all others I have expamined. It
may be the best for aught I know, but I say,
it seems to me very foolish and absurd.
	You have as much argument in favor of
your method as any of the rest have, as far as
I can see. And if a tree is to be known by
its fruits, I must say that yours looks as sound
to me as any I see anywhere in the world. I
have tried to see wherein you were traitors to
the governmment, but cannot make it out, al-
thogh you were denounced as such.
	If you would abandon ONE practice, you
would be one of the most prosperous people in
the world, in my opinion, for the other points
of your religion, or many of them, teach fru-
gality, protection to each othe and a system of
complete and universal industry. I hope the
time is not far distant when you will all see this
matter in what I believe to be the true light
and abandon a practice which will surely en-
tail upon you lasting troubles of various kinds.
While in your city I received from your peo-
ple the kindest and gentlest of treatment, and
I shall never cease to thank you for it, and I
shall doubtless cherish a sort of fraternal feel-
ing for your people to the day of my death. I
hope for your success and that you will purify
and purge from your body corporate all the
evils of life as fast as you find them out-- be
radical in this; don't hesitate to do right,
though the "heavens fall." I shall aid you in
it all I can and ever protest against our gov-
ernemnt planning or taking action to deprive
you of your just and lawful rights.
	Mrs. C. is away on a lecturing tour; will be
home in a week and remain at home, I hope,
till summer. The legislature has done well for
temperance in the Senate, we hope it will in
the house; and we hope they will submit the
suffrage amendment to the people's vote. We
shall see!
	Please remember me to Mr. Wells and the
rest of the family; and remember me for your-
self as a fraternal friend in all just work.
							J. B. C.


