OBSEQUIES.

	The funeral services over the remains of Sister Mar-
garet Gardener, who departed this life on the morning
of March 20th, 1884, was held in the West Jordan Ward
House, on the 22nd inst, Counselor James Turner pres-
iding.
	Present on the stand, Prest. A. M. Cannon and Coun-
selor Joseph E. Taylor, of the Salt Lake Stake of Zion, Bish-
ops I. M. Stewart of Draperville, and Samuel Bennion of
Taylorsville Wards; also Bishop Gardener's Counselors,
Ward Teachers, quorum officers and others.
	The large assembly was called to order promptly at
nine o'clock. The choir sang, "Sister thou wast mild
and lovely." Opening prayer was offered by Bro. James


Glover. The choir sang the hymn, "The Resurrection
Day." After which Prest. Joseph E. Taylor delivered
an elaborate funeral discourse, beautifully dilating upon
the spirit world and the resurrection; also extoling the
virtues of the deceased.
	Prest. A. M. Cannon followed with excellent remarks:
speaking in the highest terms of Sister Margaret, and
giving such counsel to old and young as may long be
remembered.
	The Choir sang, "Nearer my God to Thee." Benedic-
tion by Bishop I. M. Stewart.
	After all present had taken a farewell look at our be-
loved sister, her mortal remains was followed by a long
train of carriages and vehicles, filled with relatives and
friends, to Bingham Junction, U. C. R. R., and placed
on board a special car, and taken to Salt Lake City,
where a hearse and carriages were in waiting.
	After the transfer was made another long line of
carriages, well filled, followed Sister Margaret to her
last resting place in the Salt Lake Cemetry. The dedi-
catory prayer was offered by Bro. Joseph J. Williams of
West Jordan.
	Sister Margaret was the eldest daughter of Bishop
Archibald Gardener and his wife, Margaret Livington
Gardener.
	She was born Oct. 6th, 1848, and was the second white
child born in these valleys. She suffered with consump-
tion for a number of months, which finally caused her
death.
	Sister Margaret has been a faithful member of he
Relief Society since 1875, and was a teacher in the same
since 1880.
	She became a member of the Y. L. M. I. A. when it
was first organized, and was secretary of this organiza-
tion for over three years prior to her death, and was al-
so a faithful teacher in the Sunday School.
	She died as she had lived, a faithful Latter-day Saint.

Dearest sister, though your pathway
	Has been strewn with many thorns,
You have nobly won the victory,
	To your rest you now have gone.
