BEAR LAKE.

	Synopsis of the minutes of the 11th Semi-
Annual Conference of the Bear Lake Stake
held in Paris, Feb. 23rd and 24th, 1884, Sat-
urday, 10 a.m. Meeting called to order by
Prest. [-]. [-]. Lindsay, Singing, Prayer by

[Column 3]
Prest. Wm. Budge. Singing. Minutes read
and accepted.
	Prest. Lindsay was pleased to meet with the
sisters in the capacity of a Relief Society Con-
ference, although there were but few in num-
ber in consequence of the late stormy weather
and depth of snow. She did not doubt that
the Lord would bless us, as He says, "If a few
are met together in His name there He will be
also.',
	The Relief Societies were then represented
as follows:
	Paris 1st Ward—Prest. M. Innes; Paris 2nd
Ward—Prest. M. A. Shepherd; Ovid Ward—
Prest- M. Carleson; Liberty Ward—Prest M.
Morgan; Bennington Ward—Prest M. Van
Norman; Montpelier Ward—letter, Prest.
Hogensen being sick; Cottonwood Ward—
Prest. M. Dalrymple; Bloomington Ward—
Prest. S. Greenhalgh; St. Charles—Prest. L.
M. Rich; Georgetown, Soda Springs, Fish Ha-
ven, Garden City, Meadowville, Laketown,
Randolph, Woodruff and Saleratus Creek, not
reported.
	Prest. Lindsay stated that she had received
a letter from Meadowville stating that they
were not in working order. The settlement
was quite small and thought it was difficult to
carry on an Association there.
	Prest. N. M. Pugmire stated that the Young
Ladies would hold their Conference in the
afternoon at 2 p.m. Conference adjourned un-
til 10 a.m. next day. Singing. Dismissed by
Bp. Dalrymple.

	Sunday 10 a.m. Singing. Prayer. by
Prest. James H. Hart. Singing. The statisti-
cal and financial report was then read by the
Secretary.
	Prest. Lindsay had felt greatly blessed and
encouraged in traveling around visiting the
people. Alluded to the work of the Temple
and stated that all the money that had been
sent in for medical purposes without any pres-
ent prospect of using it for the purpose design-
ed, could be turned over to the Temple fund,
and wished the Presidents to send in all the
Temple donations they have now on hand, as
we wish to close up our Temple accounts. We
must have more medical aid as soon as we can
find sisters adapted to that study, and who are
prepared to go to the city for that purpose, and
it would be well to bear this in mind. Spoke
at some length upon storing grain and advised
the sisters to continue in the good work. Gave
many instructions to the presidents about the
way in which to transact the business of the
Associations, and the way in which to receive
members. It is not those who are best educa-
ted and can speak most of the things of God,
it is those who are pure in heart. Education
is a great help, but we must be humble and
prayerful to fulfill the offices we are appointed
to. Prest. Rich once said, "Sister Lindsay, if
I should place all the offices I could upon you,
unless you magnified them they would do you
more harm than good." This is saying a good
deal in a few words. Felt to ask the blessing
of God upon all the people.
	Counselor E. Collings felt to acknowledge
the hand of God in permitting her to attend
this meeting. We are here to do the will of
our Heavenly Father, not our own will, and
it seems that I have been spared a little longer
and I desire to spend the rest of my days in
this work.
	Prest. N. M. Pugmire stated that it was very
unexpectedly to her to be called upon this
morning, but hoped that she would always
be found ready and willing to do what was re-
quired of her. Was always glad to receive in-
structions from the elderly sisters who have
toiled hard to the very last. Felt to love them
and look to them with reverence. We have
[---] things in our [---] is [---]


and I think we will have a greater reward if
we fight the battle faithfully.
	Counselor A. M. Rich said she had been ac-
quainted with President Lindsay for a number
of years, was her Secretary once, and knew her
to be a zealous woman and that she rejoiced in
the Gospel and in all the privileges she enjoyed
in common with her sisters to do good. Let
us be honest, kind and true to each other, and
sustain the Priesthood of God in our midst, as
it is right, and also because it is through them
that we receive the administration and blessing
of the Gospel.
	Sister L. M. Hart felt to bear her testomony
to this work, and was glad of the privilege of
taking part in promoting it, and wished to en-
dure faithful to the end. She often wondered
whether she would be able to continue as faith-
ful as those of her sisters who had spoken. We
should try to be charitable and speak well of
each other and not say anything that will cause
bad feelings.
	Prest. Budge stated that he had been re-
quested to say a few words to the sisters by Sis-
ter Lindsay, and felt to respond to the call
cheerfully. Felt that the time was very short
for the sisters as the Young Ladies and Prim-
ary were all represented in the two days. We
are indebted to them for their co-operation in
this Stake of Zion. They have labored faith-
fully in instructing the people and the results
there from are very apparent. Preferred to
hear the sisters speak as their words were both
encouraging and instructive, indeed the only
thing to be regretted was their being too brief
generally.
	Prest. Hart felt to respond to the call from
Sister Lindsay with great pleasure. Realized
with Prest. Budge the importance of these or-
ganizations, and looked forward to the future
with satisfaction. We must be strong in the
Lord. We have had many good instructions
from the sisters and Prest. Budge, and we
should treasure them up in our minds. The
Lord has blessed us with the blessings of earth
and the blessings of heaven. It is necessary
that we become more perfect, that we may be
qualified to dwell with the holy ones. Our re-
ligion has taught us that we are not the grovel-
ing things of this earth, but we are really sons
and daughters of God who reigns over all men;
over all the worlds that are created. It is
clearly laid down in the law that Jesus shall
reign as King of Kings and Lord of Lords.
What a great work is devolving upon the Lat-
ter-day Saints. Were the deeds of the faith
of our sons and daughters recorded they would
supercede anything that has ever been read.
Admired the zeal, courage, faith, energy and
self-sacrificing spirit of the sisters. Desired
that the blessing of God would rest upon the
sisters and that success would continue to at-
tend their labors.
	Prest. Osmond expected that what he should
say would be more as a testimony to the work,
than to add to what had been said. There was
quite a distinction among the sisters as there is
among the brethren in taking an active part
in the work. Was struck with the remark of
Sister Pugmire in which she hoped that the
young ladies that she represented would prove
as faithful as those who had addressed them. I
have thought of them, when they would stand
by the brethren in the day of trial, and in faith
fill their part nobly and bring their children
up in the fear of God, when they may be de-
prived of the counsels of their fathers. Our
object, desires and aims are the same and we
are looking forward for the same blessings.
	Conference was then adjourned until the
second Saturday and Sunday in July, and an
intimation given that a two days meeting
would be held at Montpelier one week from
yesterday and to-day.
	Singing. Benediction by Prest. Wm Budge,


