STEPHENS' CONCERT,

	Again we were delighted last evening by the
exhibition of home talent rendered to us in the
concert of Brother Evan Stephens: the singing of
the children and the faultless time they ob-
served were marvelous in such juvenile ama-
teurs, they did immense credit to their earnest
and indefatigable teacher, Brother Evan Steph-
ens; all did well, and all was good. Our sweet,
modest, earnest women, with their pure, clear
voices, must atrike chords in every heart and
brain, and make us proud to feel we are associa-


ted with them, for they have a language with-
out sound, aside from their vocal minstreley;
that tells of honor, of purity, and an earnest
love and appreciation of the beautiful. I heard
a gentleman, a stranger, who sat near me speak
repeatedly in praise of the performance—he said
he had heard all the fine operas in London, Par-
is and St. Petersburg, but there were one or two
pieces he had never heard performed better. He
especially alluded to the chorus, "Hail us ye
free," German," as his favorite: he was evidently
a man of immense knowledge in many things,
and a connoisseur in music; he rapturously ap-
plauded, and spoke in high praise of the war-
blers.
	Of course we were all charmed with Patti,
her manner won hearts as rapidly as her mag-
nificent voice, so innocent, winsome and guile-
less—but our loved ones at home called back
our wandering thoughts last night and our hearts
heard a whisper that re-echoed through its in-
most recesses, Our own! Our own! Our little
Prima is worthy of all commendation, for
though entirely self supporting, she is ever a
lady in mind and manner; and though at times
petted and applauded she still retains the sweet
simplicity of her character, with a quiet dignity
all her own; have we not a right to be proud of
our sweet songstreses of Zion, which delighted
last night all who heard them. It has some
times been suggested that her voice should re-
ceive higher cultivation and of course all would
assent to that if it could be acquired without
sacrificing too much for it. We love her as she
is. It is a delicate and sometimes a dangerous
point to attain eminence and retain equilibrium.
We should scarcely dare to expect this from the
young and inexperienced.
	Such entertainments as last night are most
edifying and satisfactory, and must be especi-
ally so to the parents of the children who ac-
quitted themselves so well. The manners and
the order preserved by them is worthy of all
praise; to such entertainments all hearts must
exclaim, Encore! Encore!
					HANNAH T. KING.
	Salt Lake City, April 8th, 1884.


