AS PUBLISHED IN THE GERMAN STERN.

	Considering the vast distance between the
women of this land and their sisters in Zion, and
therefore the [-]mited means afforded of knowing
much concerning the Relief Societies of the
Latter-day Saint women, I have thought per-
haps it might please my sisters of this mission
who are engaged in this praiseworthy move-
ment to read a brief description of the work
performed by these societies and have also hoped
that thereby they might obtain a few instruc-
tive hints and beneficial suggestions.
	Women's share in the work of building up the
Kingdom of God has ever shown itself in a
marked manner, to much so that in the earliest
days of the church the Prophet Joseph deemed
it necessary to organize the women of Zion into
societies, for by thus working in union greater
good could be accomplished by them, while
they would also be better able to fulfil the duties
required of them.
	The first society was organized in Nauvoo on
the 17 h of March, 1842, and the Prophet's wife,
Emma, was made president. This society be-
gan its labors under the immediate instruction
and watch-care of the Prophet Joseph, and the
members wers blessed and set apart by him for
their missionary work. Great was their zeal,
and many are those, who to-day praise and love
them for the kind assistance, spiritual and tem-


[Column 1]
poral, and the motherly aid received at the
hands of these sweet women. The principal
work of the women in those days was to minis-
ter in the temples of Kirtland and Nauvoo, and
to watch with and comfort the sick and sorrow-
ing. Their hearts were in their labors and they
worked cheerfully and happily for the good of
all, carrying sunshine and gladness with them
wherever they went, whether in the happy
throng, in the sick chamber, or beside the sor-
rowing heart. Of those who were in the first
organization but few remain. Among those
still spared to na are our much esteemed sisters,
Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. H. Young and Sarah
M. Kimball, who still labor most diligently in
the interests of the societies.
	While writing of the first organization men-
tion is due Sister Elizabeth Ann Whitney, who
two years ago was laid in the grave. She had
been a most diligent worker in the society, and
was so dearly loved for the motherly kindness
she had shown, and solacing words she had ut-
tered, that they named her Mother Whitney,
the Comforter. Her voice was so sweet and
soft, and in the temples she sang so beautifully,
that she was called "The sweet sonstress of Zi-
on." A halo of light ever seemed to hover near
her, and she reminded one more of othe angels of
[-]eaven than of any earthly being. In the tem-
ple she was blessed with the gift of ton gues,
and sang in a language said by the Prophet
Joseph to be the language spoken in the Garden
of Eden. This gift she held until her last mo-
ments on earth, and never appeared so beauti-
ful and strong as when she sang for her loved
friends in this heavenly, unknown tongues. For
some time after the migration to Utah the socie-
ty was in an unsettled state, some of the sisters
having remained in the east, others having died
while on the long, tedious journey across the
scorching desert, and those who had gathered to
Zion being scattered in different localities, be-
sides each had her own home to make and so
much to do, that though the sisters ever helped
each other, no work was done by an organized
society. However, when the people became
more prosperous and settled in their circum-
stances, President Brigham Young felt the ne-
cessity of again organizing the Relief Societies,
and called Sister Eliza R. Snow to preside over
all the organizations of women of the Church.
To her he gave instructions concerning the or-
ganization and method of working; and thus be-
gan the great system which to-day is so perfect
and praise worthy.
	Sister Eliza has always been closely identified
with all the workings of the women of Zion,
and has ever shown an untiring zeal in the in-
terests of her sex. Possessed of a strong char-
acter, great executive ability and a highly spir-
itual nature, she seems to have been born for
this position and admirably fulfilled as to call forth
the esteem and respect of every one; and now,
though the eightieth anniversary of her birth is
past, she still labors diligently and untiringly in
in her position. When she first received the
mission of the re-organization she and her co-la-
borers visited all the wards in Salt Lake City,
then the different settlements of Utah, where,
under the auspices of the several Bishops, socie-
ties were organized. Then meetings of these
societies were called, and under the auspices of
the presidents of stakes, stake organizations
were formed by the appointing of a president,
counselors and secretary to see to the welfare of
the ward societies of the several stakes. At
nearly all of the organizations Sister Eliza was
present, sometimes having travelled hundreds
of miles over a rough country for the express
purpose, and she always gave much valuable
instruction, explaining the necessity of the so-

[Column 2]
cieties and the methods to be used in conduct-
ing them as she had been advised and counselled
to do by President Young. The societies have
so rapidly grown and increased in numbers that
now there are few places in the world where a
sufficient number of the saints live, without one
of them. Everywhere they are found working
quietly and diligently spreading good in every
direction and causing their influence to be felt a-
mong the people.
	The duties of the societies have increased even
as the societies themselves have, and to-day
their work is boundless. The great assistance
they render is marvelous, and the good they do
far surpasses the expectations of the most san-
guine. It can scarcely be told, it over-reaches
all calculations. Sustained and upheld by the
thought that they were travelling in the path
of duty, the women of Utah have toiled on,
triumphing over all opposition and discourage-
ment, each day spreading their influences abroad
and holding out a helping hand to others. With
their faith and goodness their power and
strength have increased, till now, endowed with
the priceless graces, Faith, Hope and Charity,
they have attained a height of excellence, and
stand before the world a band of noble, fearless
woman.
	One glimpse of these societies and their work-
ings ought to cause the world to abandon forev-
er the idea that the women of Utah are down-
trodden and degraded, for where else in the
whole wide world can one find such a commu-
nity of working, benevolent women? From the
first they have nourished a feeling that all
their work should be labors of love, and with
this spirit and the systematic plans which they
possess one can easily imagine what great good
they can accomplish. The teachers of the so-
cieties make regular visits to all the people in
the wards, collecting the bounty bestowed by
the rich and well-to-do, and ascertaining the
circumstances and wants of the poor, bestowing
relief and good counsel as they go from place to
place. Every two weeks meetings are held to
hear the teachers' reports and attend to all busi-
ness connected therewith, also to enjoy the
sweet pleasure of conversing upon the princi-
ples of the Gospel and teaching and instructing
each other. At these times they are often so
blessed with the Spirit of the Lord that they
sing and speak in tongues and have the inter-
pretation of the same. This gift also helps to
render firmer their testimony, for they here see
a fulfillment of the prophecies. Once a month
sewing meetings are held, and for some few
hours the sisters ply the needle more industri-
ously, making up various kind of articles that
have been contributed for the benefit of the
poor. Many hundreds of dollars' worth of nee-
dlework has either been donated to the needy,
or disposed of and the means thus obtained used
for some charitable purpose. In this way the
sisters have been able to aid in the building of
temples and other public buildings, and often
assist a departing missionary; and still through
their economy and industry have kept a little
store on hand for a rainy day. They make it a
duty to watch with the sick and render every
attention possible to any who are afflicted a-
mong them. These love-laboring women are
always found in the houses of mourning, using
their best efforts towards comforting the sorrow-
ing and preparing the departed one for the
grave. Most all the burial clothes [--]d among
the saints are made at the sisters' meetings.
Temple clothes are also made by the Relief So-
ciety women, and kept for the use of the peo-
ple.
	At first the societies met at the house of some
member, but they increased so rapidly in num-
bers, and their store of goods also increasing, it

[Column 3]
was thought best for them to meet in the sever-
al ward meeting houses; but even then the sis-
ters had not the room for storing their goods,
and with their quiet industry and never failing
zeal they worked for the building of houses of
their own; and now many of the societies either
have a house to themselves or a room in the
ward building, built and furnished out of their
own means. Some of them also keep a store,
and the profits therefrom are placed in the
treasury of the society. Many of them have
built granaries; for unto the societies has been
given the mission of storing grain against a day
of famine, which President Young and others
have prophesied would come upon the earth;
and he himself called upon the sisters to organ-
ize this benevolent enterprise. A committee,
with Emmelne B. Wells as president, to su-
prerintend the saving and storing of grain was
appointed in November, 1876.
	So anxious had the societies become to learn
of each others movements, and so necessary was
it thought for the world to know more of the
Latter-day Saint women that a publication
called THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT was establish-
ed in Salt Lake City, in June, 1872, and a young
lady, Miss Lula Greene, selected to edit and con-
duct the same. This paper was started by sub-
scriptions and donations from the different so-
cieties and is published for the express purpose
of representing the work of the women of Zion.
The EXPONENT has for the last seven years been
edited by Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, the former
editor having withdrawn.
	The enterprise of publishing a woman's paper
has been most successful in every respect, but
not only are the societies represented there, but
through its columns the women of Utah glori-
ously defend their rights and speak for them-
selves in answer to the many false reports that
are made of them. It has also been the means
of encouraging literary talent among the wom-
en; and many who are now beautiful and ac-
complished writers received their first encour-
agement through the EXPONENT.
	Another praise worthy movement among the
women of Utah has been their great interest
and work in sericulture. They have labored in-
dustriously in this and have had considerable
success. through the industry is still in its infan-
cy.
	The most energetic worker in this has been
Sister Zina D. H. Young, who herself took
charge of a large mulberry orchard and the man-
agement of a cocoonery for sometime. The in-
dustry is now well established. One factory has
been built and is in working order, and some
very fine specimens of Utah silk have been pro-
duced. This has been a rather difficult under-
taking, for not only had all the machinery to be
imported, but competent weavers could not be
found in Utah, and it became necessary to emi-
grate some who understood the industry before
manufacturing could be done.
	Still another most creditable movement made
by the societies has been the assisting and en-
couraging young ladies in the study of medicine.
Many of the settlements are situated in isolated
places and medical attendance in the case of ac-
cident or sudden sickness had hitherto been im-
possible. Besides, a large majority of the phys-
icians among our people were not members of
the church, and it has ever been thought best
to encourage by our patronage our own people.
When the question of sending our young sisters
away to study medicine first arose, Sister Ro-
mania B. Pratt eagerly desired to number her-
self among the pioneer woman doctors of Utah,
and accordingly she went east, entered a medi-
cal college in Phi[-]a[-]elphia, where she studied
most assiduously, and quickly made herself pro-
ficient in the chosen science. After graduating
she returned to Utah and not only began to


practice her profession, but took classes of young 
women sent from the different settlements to
receive instruction in medicine and surgery,
most particularly in obstetrics. Many others
have followed Mrs. Pratt's example and are
now promising practitioners among the people.
Most of there have received assi tance from the
Relief Societies, and many young women under
Mrs. Pratt's tuition are enabled to prosecute
their studies through the aid they receive from 
them. These classes prepare themselves for the
higher branches of the academies, and thus with
this previous teaching are not compelled to stay
away from home so long. Since this first move-
ment rapid progress has been made by the
young women in this direction, and Utah to-day
has several lady physicians of marked ability,
besides many who have taken only the course
in obstetrics from Mrs. Pratt, and then after an
examination before the leading physicians of the
city returned to their several homes to minister
in their calling.
	As the different ladies graduated and began
practice among the people they saw more and
more the necessity of a hospital. This subject
was first agitated by Dr. Pratt short'y after her
return from the east, but not until 1882 did the
sisters feel able for so great an undertaking.
Recognizing, however, that it was need and
would become a great benefit to the people, the
societies consented to sustain it by monthly do-
nations, and many of the members of the sev-
eral societies became members of the Hospital
Association. Accordingly the institution was
established without captial, depending almost
entirely upon the diffferent societies for its supr
port. This has been quite an undertaking to
the Relief Societies and has made a heavy tax
upon their little treasuries, but as in all their
other efforts they have labored most faithfully
and willingly and now have great cause to feel
rewarded for their pains--for the Deseret Hos-
pital is in a prosperous and promising condition.
	Whole volumes could be written of the work
of the women of Zion, and then not the half be
told; but I will not presume to tell more, my
object being merely to relate something con-
cerning the organization and the principal work
accomplished by the Relief Society in its
branches and departments. There are numer-
ous works I have not mentioned at all, among
them the organization of Young Ladies' Societ-
ties and the Primaries; the beginning of the or-
ganization among the Indian women and the
travels of the leading ladies from one end of the
territory to another, and even to other lands for
the purpose of organizing and encouraging the
different societies, but my time will not allow
me to narrate so much. I hope you may be al-
lowed to gather to Zion and not only learn of
these things, but also assist in the great work
of the Mormon women. It has give me the
greatest pleasure to meet with the sisters of this
land, and has espeically delighted me to see you
organized into Relief Societies, for I am sure
you will derive much benefit from these organi-
zations.
	May you ever feel blessed and prospered in
your labors, and notwithstanding the adverse-
circumstances and persecution you have to con-
tend with, still stand firm and faithful in the
cause of truth, is the earnest desire of your sis-
ter in the Gospel. 			ANNIE W. CANNON.
	Pest Gasse 36, Bern, March 12, 1884.


