DEAR EDITOR:
	On Dec. 6th, last, I commenced our second
annual visit to the Primaries of this, the San-
pete Stake, accompanied by Counselor Car-
oline Swalberg, and joined later by Counselors
Lucy Bergland and Marian Tennant.
	When we left Ephraim, we were speeded on
our way by the blessing and good wishes of
President Canute Peterson.
	With the three Associations lately organized,
i. e., Stirling, Gunnison Field and Dover, there
are now 19 Primary Associations in this Stake,
numbering 1,962 members. We found them,
with two exceptions, in a very healthy and pro-
gressive condition. There have been 16 Prim-
ary Fairs during the last two or three years in
this stake. We have had the pleasure of be-
ing present at four of them, and invited to
many which we have been unable to attend.
When we saw what these young and small Lat-
ter-day Saints could do in home industries, it
made us think, what could not we older ones
do if we exercised as much perseverance in
proportion to our strength and knowledge as
these little children do. When the day comes
that Babylon falls, and we are thrown upon
our own resources, then, if not before, will we
likely see the good of these Fairs, that are now
almost left for the little ones to monopolize.
The Primaries are taught to pay tithing, which
some of them are already practicing. I regret
that I am not posted as to how much the Prim-
aries of this stake have donated to the Manti
Temple, but it is considerable. They have also
gleaned and stored about 100 bushels of wheat.
So much for temporalities.
	As the children are taught and advance in
the knowledge of God and the plan of salva-
tion, we find them more inclined for pursuits of
a refining nature; and it fills our hearts with
gratitude to the kind Dispenser, to see the rare
spiritual gifts, which He has bestowed upon
the children of the Latter-day Saints in such
rich measure.
	Since Sister E. R. S. Smith's Primary books
have been in use the children's selections have
improved, till they are all that could be wished
for, while prior to that time, if not guarded a-
gainst, the selection of songs, recitations, etc.,
were not always as appropriate as they might
be, and the Primaries are very thankful to
Sister Eliza for her loving labors for them.
	We find some Primary Presidents who will
not allow any exercise in a meeting, and least
of all prayers, to go on until all the children
are attentive; they wait until order reigns, and
such meetings are orderly indeed; but orderly,
quiet, well disciplined Primaries are the pre-
vailing rule.
	Sister Helen Armstrong, Stake President of
Y. L. M. I. A., has established a rule within
her jurisdiction. which we have mutually con-
cluded upon, that the girls who apply for mem-
bership in the Y. L. M. I. A. must be thirteen
years of age, and although visitors are always
welcomed, must bring a recommend from the
President of the Primary. We are in hopes
that the Stake President of	*	*	will
favor us with a like rule. This, we have no
doubt, will meet with President Peterson's ap-
probation.
	We feel encouraged in the cause of Primary
Associations, and trust the interest for and in
behalf of the precious, tender plants, intrusted
to our care, may never waver, but that we may
give them the benefit of our experience, point-
ing out to them, by the help of the Lord, at
the beginning of their life's voyage, the shoals
upon which the wayward must stand, and guid-
ing them with tenderest love and care in the
way that leads them to God.
