A WOMAN'S TESTIMONY.

	"There is a way which seemeth right unto man,
but the end thereof is death."

	When I read of the unconstitutional efforts
made by those who are not of us to overthrow
the work the Lord has commenced to bring
about, the great and last dispensation of the
fulness of times, this passage of Scripture oc-
curs to my mind: "The wisdom of their
wise men shall perish." It stimulates me to
renewed diligence and zeal. We have been
taught to expect persecution, and many things
that the Prophet Joseph foretold are rushing to
fulfilment, which indicates a crisis at hand.
	In the fall of 1840 I was baptized into the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
My father was a most upright man and taught
his children to be so. He did not believe in
the religions of the day, but would say, "It is
good to go to church and pray, but the true
priesthood is not with us." These remarks led
me to reflect, and I discovered, so far as I had
the opportunity, that all the Christian denom-
inations embraced some truths, but none of
them were in accord with the Scriptures of the
New Testament.
	I read the Bible with avidity, and would
ponder on the "gathering of Israel from the
four corners of the earth, etc.," and queried,
when will these things be?
	I went to our venerable clergyman with my
doubts about our method of baptism. He was
kind, and lent me books on the subject. I was
not, at that time, aware that the Lord was pre-
paring my mind to receive the Gospel of Jesus
Christ at the hands of an Elder, authorized by


the Holy Priesthood to administer the ordin-
ances. He was slow to introduce the subject,
and I looked upon him as deluded until I be-
gan to investigate, when I became alarmed lest
it should be true. Then what should I do?
Must I give up all—kindred, friends, society
and the comforts of life? This seemed to be
the sacrifice required, and which I cheerfully
accepted, and have ever been thankful to be
numbered with the children of God.
	The signs of the times are very manifest that
the dawning of a brighter day for the Saints
is approaching more rapidly than many are a-
ware. Darkness precedes the light. The ad-
versary fears and trembles, for his time is short.
"The kingdoms of this world shall become the
kingdoms of our Lord and His Christ," and
all the efforts of the puny arm of flesh cannot
stay the work of the Lord; the sooner their cup
of iniquity is filled, the more it will hasten the
redemption of Zion, and His people will be
free.
	President Taylor was not afraid to accom-
pany the Prophet Joseph and his noble breth-
ren to prison where death awaited them at the
hands of a murderous mob, and that, because
they worshiped the true and living God, and
for none other cause. A watch worn by Presi-
dent Taylor providentially saved his life, the
bullet aimed striking the watch instead of his
heart; he was already wounded, almost unto
death, and is to-day a living martyr. Neither
will he fear the advance of a similar foe in a
different form, for God is with him and with
His people.
	The Lord will permit those who are seeking
to destroy and scatter His people to accom-
plish His will, and thus far can they go, and no
further. Then will He sanctify His children,
and "make the wrath of man to praise Him.,"
	There may be some who think they are do-
ing God's service, but it is said, "There is a
way which seemeth right unto man, but the
end thereof is death."
	Oh! that men, and women too, would con-
sider before they enter such a perilous barque
and make shipwreck of their souls for it is a
fearful thing to measure arms with the Al-
mighty.
	God bless our brethren who are laboring so
faithfully for the good of Zion, and our sis-
ters are not idle, all are anxious to win souls
to a knowledge of the truth as it is in Jesus.
Amen.					M. A. P. HYDE.


