EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thinking that perhaps yourself, along with
some of the readers of the EXPONENT, would
like to hear from this out-of-the-way place, I
will try to let you know a little about what we
are doing.
	The young ladies of this place held their
fourth annual meeting Feb. 12th, 1884, and
although it was a very cold day the meeting
wae very well attended. After the different
exercises from the Association, and some very
suitable remarks from our Bishop, J. H.
Wright, the officers were all unanimously sus-
tained, which is the fifth year, with very little
exception, that they have labored together, and
I find that those who have been on hand in
the discharge of their duties have made a
marked improvement, and I hope that all who
are engaged in the Association will realize the
great field of labor there is before them.
	The Relief Society in this place is also in a
very good condition, and our worthy President,
Sister Margaret Anderson, is doing all she can
to instruct us in her motherly way.
	The society made a surprise party for all
those who had arrived at the age of sixty years.
We all met at the school house on the 19th
of Feb., at eleven a.m., and partook of the
rich things of this world, and after dinner was
over the afternoon was partly spent in speeches,
songs, dialogues, and a piece of poetry compos-
ed for the occasion. There was a great deal of
Scandinavian language used on occount of a
great many of the old folks being Scandina-
vians. It was to all a very enjoyable time,
owing a great deal to the management of the
committee. The President took an active part
in the whole proceedings. The choir assisted
in making it interestieg.
	Our Sunday School and Primary Associa-
tion are in a good condition, owing a great
deal to the faithful leaders of these institutions.
On the 7th of March our Sunday School held
an exhibition for the benefit of the Sunday
School, which, according to the material we
have to work with here in the frontiers, came
off well.
	Wishing success to the EXPONENT, I remain,
			Your sister in the Gospel,
									U. C.

