Social Service (Fourth Week in June PERSONALITY STUDY: Prorer Use or Humor Based on Overstreet's Influencing Human Behavior, pp. 256-277 "Humor is a powerful factor in influencing behavior," says the author of our text.

Field of business psychology says that "it is extremely difficult to handle humor successfully, and when not used successfully it is very likely to do positive harm." (Strong.) These two quotations express very clearly the keynote of this lesson.

The definite implication is that we may well cultivate a sense of humor and that we should learn how it may be used more effectively.

The subject of mirthful behavior, to many may seem very trifling, yet it is a fact that great men like Aristotle, Hobbes, Kant, Schopenhauer, Spencer and Bergson have seriously tried to understand the causes of laughter and whole volumes have been written by way of exposition of their findings.

Their views are couched briefly in such phrases as "imitation of a lower type," "theory of superiority," "nullification of expectation," "theory of incongruity,' "an effort which suddenly encounters a void," "the appearance of mechanical inelasticity in human life," etc. Ours is a practical interest, so it will not be appropriate to dwell on the merely theoretical aspects of this very interesting and important general topic.

However, we do want to know something of the conditions which make for mirthful behavior as well as something of the social effectiveness of humor, and how we may avoid certain common mistakes in relation to its use.

We may begin with a brief quotation from a valuable discussion of this subject by Bogardus: "In order to see the humorous A writer in the.

Side of life one must enjoy a fair degree of physical health and of mental exuberance.

If he has suffered long hours of tedious labor without sleep, if he has been the victim of recent financial reverses, if loved ones are dangerously ill, the mirthful self is likely to be quiescent.

The play tendencies and the social spirit are fundamental to the expression of mirth." * * * "Laughter is born of social contacts.

Whenever two or more persons who are kindred spirits are gathered together under agreeable circumstances, they are likely to burst out into laughter at any moment. * * * A member of an adult group may laugh because he is unconsciously stimulated by the laughing of others. * * * Laughter sometimes results from the desire not to be conspicuous.

The listener may fail to catch the point of a story, but joins in the group laughter. * * * "Laughter is occasionally forced.

An individual is insulted by a slighting remark.

He does not want to recognize the incident, therefore he will parry the thrust by laughing. * * * Laughter is sometimes utilized to cover pain.

One's pride may lead him to invoke a laughing mood.

Pain is frequently camouflaged by laughter.

Tears may be concealed by laughter." * * * "Probably the most common cause of laughter is found in the incongruous actions of other individuals.

A dog chases his tail, a boy with a basket of eggs falls down, a dignified man runs after his wind-blown hat?these are never-failing, mirthprovoking incongruities. * * Then there are incongruous ideas which are common causes of laughter, such LESSON DEPARTMENT as (1) Mlogical statements, (2) Grammatical and rhetorical errors, (3) Idiomatical and related mistakes, (4) The play on words, (5) Overstatement or understatement that is moderate and implied, (6) A sudden change from the serious to the trifling or ridiculous, and (7) Unintended suggestions." * * * "To make fun of others constitutes an entirely different set of causes of laughter. * * * There is laughter which is simply ridicule? the individual is merely derided. * Then there is laughter which is purely and openly sarcastic, biting, and generally anti-social.

Social ridicule of whatever degree is powerful because it directly affects the socially reflected self.

Social laughter is a corrective.

It arouses fear, and 'restrains eccentricity'."* These brief quoted extracts on laughter are very inadequate as a sample of the way social psychologists discuss this interesting topic.

However, a careful rereading of this material should stimulate considerable reflection and help in a measure to understand mirthful behavior, and the last paragraph especially suggests how at times the provoking of laughter may have considerable social importance in addition to the possible amusement afforded.

People who are more than superficially acquainted with the Bible know that it contains many situations that were intended perhaps to be humorous.

Consider, for example, the answer of Job to his critics who had been parroting ancient so-called wisdom to him after the fashion of a Bromide.

He says, "No doubt you are the men who know!

Wisdom will die with you." Job 12:2, Moffat's translation.

Read in Amos 4:4-5 where the *Reprinted from Essentials of Social Psychology by Emory S. Bogardus, with permission of the publisher, Jesse Ray Miller. 239 prophet tells the "unspiritual ritualists" to whom he is speaking to "come to Bethel, (a sanctuary) and transgress; to Gilgal, and multiply transgression; bring your sacrifices every morning, and your tithes every three days." Is he not poking fun at some of the respectabilities on which they have gone to seed?

Or could any intelligent reader think that Jesus intended the plain implication of his answer _ recorded in Mark 2:17 to be taken seriously?

The self-sufficient scribes of the Pharisees were questioning the propriety of Jesus eating and drinking with publicans and sinners.

What effective irony is contained in his splendid answer and what a fine key it is into the insight which Jesus had as to the kind of people with whom reform may best be begun.

When Jesus learned about the question and noted the selfsatisfied anxiety of the delegation of scribes looking in at the feast he said to them, "They that are whole have no need of a physician, but they that are sick: I came not to call the righteous, but sinners." What do you suppose was the effect of this carefully worded reply?

Certain it is that even our sacred literature illustrates how humor may be used with telling effect.

In the business world today it is recognized that humor if properly used may be very effective.

Advertisers, a few years ago, who wished to promote the use of starched collars tried to convey the impression that most of the wearers of soft collars were down at the heels in their business.

Said their advertising, "Almost all successful men wear stiff collars." It is clear that in this we have an effort to use humor to undermine the business of the manufacturers of soft and semisoft collars.

It is interesting to know that a humorous advertising appeal was used by the Van Heusen 240 people by way of rebuttal and defense.

They could not: remain in dignified silence nor trust to an ordinary denial while their customers were being belittled in this way and dubbed as unsuccessful.

Soon the reading public were smiling if not laughing at the expense of those who imitate with their uncomfortable collars the vain asceticism of those in days gone by when, for no good reason at all, 'such things as.

Starched ruffs, hard-boiled shirts, "ete., were worn.

In a subordinate part of the advertisement it is pointed out by way of contrast that the present generation with its sensible appreciation of comfort as well as style, wears soft shirts with soft bosoms and soft cuffs, soft hats, etc. If you happen to remember this advertisement picturing "Ye Hall of Discomforts" with its judicious use of humor you will agree that it was very effective.

But let us not assume that successful business men use humor freely.

As a matter of fact they exercise considerable self-restraint. 'A beginning store clerk is often cautioned about how he attempts to joke with the customers.

It is easy by joking to give offense when it is really not intended.

Humor is recognized as being so very difficult to apply successfully that one important advertising concern restricts the use of humor to only those advertisements where this sort of aopeal has been specifically authorized by the president.

It is significant that one of the best recent discussions of the prac-. Tical use of humor is entitled "Mistakes to Avoid in Using Humor."* *See Webb and Morgan?'Strategy in Handling People' (1930), pp. 238-243. Publishers: Boulton, Pierce and Company, 232 East Erie Street, Chicago, II.

Price $3.00. This book is a very inter-" esting and helpful approach to the same general problem as that treated in our text.

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE It brings home to us again the fact that "humor is an edged tool; it can be used to fight with as well as to please." The characteristic feature of this consideration of the problem is the use of many illustrative examples culled from "incidents from the careers of successful men." Some of their conclusions arrived at which might supplement our text are expressed briefly as follows: "Wee cannot go wrong with a joke on ourselves... We accomplish much the same result by joining in the laugh when' someone else Springs one on us. *-* * It is giving a thought to the victim that able men make their humor effective in creating good will.

They take care that their thrusts inflict no damage which they may regret.

Kindly humor charms people and puts them at ease.

It is perhaps unequalled as a means of relieving tension and drawing people together." At the close of this season's work it may be of interest to many of the Relief Society members to know that it has been decided to use the same text for another year and to try by a slightly different series of lessons to master the material much more thoroughly.

The Magazine lessons will have new content and an attempt will be made to make the work somewhat easier.

A Few of the Possible Problems For Discussion 1. Relate instances to illustrate the truth of the statement from Strong quoted in the first paragraph. 2. Read to the class and comment briefly on the quotation from Bogardus.

Which paragraph do you regard as most significant?

Why? 3. Why is it considered such a high compliment to say that a person has a fine sense of humor?

If it is available read the interesting column on the "Sense of Joy" found in The LESSON DEPARTMENT Nation for April 27, 1927, p. 468. Do you consider a sense of sor more important than a sense of joy as a "distinguishing mark of supremely and passionately happy persons?" Give reasons. 4, Under what circumstances is it justifiable to poke fun at the "solemn respectabilities'" of people?

What good, if any, do you suppose came out of the verses quoted in the text on page 260? Do you suppose they were intended to be merely amusing? 5. Two bromides, (See November Magazine, page 632) in this case a school teacher and a garrulous club woman had been relating publicly in church their experiences during a summer's trip abroad.

Their remarks seemed so trifling and commonplace and unnecessarily prolonged that the chorister expressed his reaction by having the bishop announce that the closing song would be the hymn entitled, "Ye simple souls who stray." Do you suppose that the effects on the whole were good or were they bad?

Do you regard the act as an unkindly thrust or a justified corrective?

Make your comments in the light of what Overstreet says on the last half of page 262 and of what Bogardus says in the last paragraph quoted here in the Magazine. 6. Mention some of the delightful personal qualities of one who has cultivated a truly humorous attitude. 7. One of the many alleged "eleventh" commandments says.

"Thou shalt not take thyself too? seriously." Comment on this especially in the light of the first half of page 266 in our text. 8. The writer has heard it said that in a certain theological class the members became very much exercised about the problem of the location of the ten lost tribes of 241 Israel.

After much discussion they sought for the final solution of the problem at the general church headquarters.

The answer came promptly.

It was about as follows: "We do not know where the ten lost tribes are.

They are lost." Have you ever heard of similar profoundly trivial discussions where the participants had at least temporarily lost their sense of humor?

How can such people be helped? 9. What do you think of the suggestion that humor is to be found in the Bible?

Discuss some of the "passages you are acquainted with where some form of humor is used.

One writer characterizes Matt. 23: 32 and Rev. 22:11 as "gravely ironical." What is your opinion of these passages?

Do you know of any preachers who make effective use of humor in their sermons to further the cause of righteousness? 'Name them and relate an illustration or two. 10. Present as convincingly as you can the considerations which cause you to believe that we can successfully cultivate a system of habits that make for humor and actually break up those habits we have that tend to make us Bulky unhumorous. 11. What to you is the best contribution you get from Chapter XVI of the text? 12. One of America's greatest educators says that we might well judge the value of educational activities by (1) the extent to which they stimulate a desire for continued growth and (2) the extent to which they furnish the necessary basis upon which further development may take place.

Judged from these standards have you made this "social service" course a success?

What are the evidences which would support your answer?