[Vol18 | April 1931 | Sequence: 13b | Category: Guide | Title: Work and Business]

Work and Business TEACHER'S Topic For JUNE Our RESPONSIBILITY TO OURSELVES "Our education should be such as to improve our minds and fit us for increased usefulness, to make us of greater service to the human family, to enable us to improve our methods of living, speaking and thinking." ? Brigham Young.

"The one duty of life is to lessen every vice and enlarge every virtue by education." ?David Swing.

"Real education is measured by our ability to get along with others and to be interested in others rather than getting others interested in us." ?Wiggam.

"All love for others begins by a wise love for self." ?Dwight Hillis.

"The Divine Teacher asks each youth to love and make the most of himself that later on he may be bread to the hungry, medicine to the wounded, shelter to the weak.'? Dwight Hilts.

We have an obligation to develop ourselves to 'the highest possible attainments: I, Intellectually By careful and systematic study. (A short time each day devoted to systematic study soon accomplishes much. ) By keeping abreast of the times and what is going on in the world, and discussing it with the family.

By taking an interest in the studies of the husband and children. (How much more interesting a husband's study becomes when he is joined in it by his wife, and how 234 much more interesting a boy's lesson, if his mother can take part in its discussion and add encouragement as he studies.) By reading well chosen books, and attending lectures, etc. By reading of the accomplishments of women.

II, Spiritually By studying and applying the gospel.

By reading and studying the life of the Master.

By taking advantage of the Relief Society lessons.

By making the most of the opportunities RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE for service, as exemplified by Christ's life of loving service.

III, Physically By keeping physically fit. (Emphasize self-care and self-love. ) By realizing that we are responsible for our own growth and happiness and for the growth and development of those about us.

By proper diet and health habits, including exercise.

By regarding the Word of Wisdom as a guide to health.

By caring for' personal appearance.

By developing personality.