Teachers' Topic SELF EFFORT Individual soul growth and development depend upon the law of self effort.

All men have received the great gift of free agency through which they merit rewards for service or punisament for disobedience.

"For behold, it is not meet that I should command in all things, for he that is compelled in all things, the same is a slothful and not a wise servant; wherefore he receiveth no reward.

"Verily I say, men should be anxiously engaged in a good cause, and do many things of their own free will, and bring to pass much righteousness: "For the power is in them, wherein they are agents unto themselves.

And inasmuch as men do good they shall in nowise lose their reward.

"But he that doeth not anything until he is commanded, and receiveth a commandment with doubtful heart, and keepeth it with slothfulness, the same is damned.' Doctrine and Covenants 58:26-29. References?Doctrine and Covenants 6:3; 6:13. Man is God's masterpiece of creation, and he should realize what a wonderful soul he possesses, and that there is need for its salvation.

Man should also realize that the greatest achievements are made when he sees and feels 'nis own possibilities, and that growth and development come only by self effort.

Sorrow and disappointment awaits the individual who expects to get something for nothing.

We must pay nature's price.

Zoroaster said: "Nature abhors and is ruthless toward those who will not help themselves." It is only through persistent effort that we build character, place ourselves beyond the destructive tendencies of life, and gain salvation.

Mastery brings to the human intelligence the greatest joy and satisfaction, for it is not what we have, but what we do and what we are that is important.

Could salvation come to man unless he had the inherent power to chose for himself? 2 Nepni 2:15. Covenants 29:34-35, Explain why not.

The Lord requires of all men that they do all in their power to bring to pass their own salvation, and he has done, and does for man all things which are beyond the power of man to do.

Why is this so?

Explain the justice of God in granting to all men according to their works.

See Matt. 7:24-27; 2 Cor. 5:10; Romans 2:6; Rev. 2:26. Discuss tne proverb: 'There is no excellence without labor," also, "What is worth doing is worth doing well." Lowell has written: "No man is born into the world whose work Is not born with him, there is always work, And tools withal, for those who will; And blessed are the horny hands of toil." The Savior said: "Do not be deceived, the Kingdom of God will not come by observation.

The Kingdom of heaven is within you." The great goal of existence, we have learned, is to become perfect as our Father in heaven is perfect.

This requires constant labor, both now and hereafter, until this perfection comes, and then.

We will be prepared to go forth in the greater work of creation which will endure forever.

Doctrine and  Literatu