Social Service. (Fourth Week in January) Foops AND EATING HABITS LESSON XIII Scientific work in the field of nutrition has done wonders in making it possible to furnish food in proper quantities and proper varieties to children of all ages.

Second in importance in knowing wnat to feed children is knowing how to guide them into willing happy eating of this proper food.

To help parents.

Solve this latter question is the purpose of this lesson.. Suggestions for Procedure: Assign the reading guide at a previous meeting.

A class member may be assigned to investigate the "Nutrition Teaching" given in the public schools as suggested on page 176 of White House Conference, 1930. A review of needed information regarding diet can be had at the beginning of the class period by using the section on "Nutrition and Diet" on pages 60-61 of White House Conference, 1930. Class members may be asked to answer the questions given in the reading guide and the application as called for in the questions on page 24 of "Habits." Reading Guide for Habits pp. 20-24. Keep clearly in mind the fact that you are reading about child behavior in regard to food.

The author assumes as is stated on page 21 that the reader knows what good habits of eating are.

If the second paragraph on page 20 is not clear go back and review the material read from Lesson XI, Habits pp. 8-14, Members: The emphasis in the chapter is on the positive point of making correct eating habits pleasurable.

Looking for the answers to the following questions will help in interpreting the material. 1. Is hunger natural? 2. Are 'having an appetite' and 'being hungry' the same? 3. Does too long continued use of a simple diet fix habits that make it difficult to introduce other foods later? 4. How do you prevent this tooearly habituation to menus? 5: Will children get real pleasure from feeding themselves? 6. What shall we do with dietary rules? 7. In what way does telling children they must eat affect their response to the food in question? 8. Do children sometimes learn to refuse to eat because refusing gets them satisfaction in other ways?

In reading the constructive rules on page 23, notice that No. 1 calls for a substitute for force.

This substitute is found in the suggestions for creating natural appetites, numbers 5, 6, and 7; and in attractive serving, number 4. Number 3 is especially important and needs to be illustrated by all of the foods that are specially flavored or prepared artificially in order to create appetites.

Appetizers are habit forming.

Number 2 refers to the possible danger of letting eating habits form the center around which the child satisfies his natural craving for attention.

The problems on page 24 are worth solving. 694 Supplementary Material.

"Habits of eating, sleeping, and elimination are directly concerned with the physical well-being of the child." (Thom; Every Day Problems of the Every Day Child, p. 50.) Parents may make mistakes in two ways (1) They may ignore the importance of these early habits or (2) they may become unduly anxious and worried over them and thus do more harm than good.

Some basic facts will help establish the proper point of view.

As given below they are adapted from Thom, Chapter 14, p. 30., 1. Action in the digestive tract is affected intimately by emotional status: "Physiological research has established the fact that emotions of various kinds.

Such as fear, anger, or excitement, influence directly the flow of secretions that have to do with the digestion of food." 51. 2. Loss of appetite due to physiological ill-health is serious but calls for no forced feeding or undue emotional response on the part of the parents. 3. All children do not require the same amount of food.

There is danger in over emphasizing the lightweight standardization.

All cnildren do not need to eat spinach or carrots every time it is served any more than they should eat other foods without exception. 4. Emotional activity at meal time may give the child a sense of power which he uses for dominating his parents or attracting attention to himself.

Vomiting may be an expression of this. 5. Many children with bad eating habits are not undernourished.

"Investigation discloses that the child is getting a sufficient amount of food.

The problem usually resolves itself into, first, the quantity of food taken; secondly, the method RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of taking it and the time of taking it; and finally, the necessary outlay of energy and effort on the part of the parent in getting the child to take adequate nourishment. (55) They would not, of course, wish to minimize the importance of the state of nutrition as a useful indicator of the child's general health and well-being.

It is necessary to emphasize the fact, however, that a child's food cannot be too highly standardized; that all children need not necessarily be the same weight or height at a given age; and that no harm will follow if they fail to measure up to the so-called 'norms', or if they happen occasionally to miss a meal or two.

One would emphasize the fact that it is the anxiety on the " part of parents over some trivial matter that frequently precipitates and perpetuates feeding difficulties in children." (56) 6. The attitude with which a child comes to meals should be cheerful and free from the demands of other activities.

It is quite desirable to call children to meals early enough so that the play or reading may be stopped logically without creating any excitement or resentment. 7 In early learning to eat the child should probably be by himself where the spilling and splashing won't attract the attention of others and where the variety of foods of the adult will not distract tne child.

If the mother sits by the child she should read or sew and not be an audience for the child's eating antics. 8. In order to teach a child to eat a new food two rules will help: Serve it daintily and attractively; do not force a child to eat it on first appearance but let him observe others eating it. 9. Let meal time conform to social custom.

Have meals regularly.

Use only a reasonable time for meals a LESSON DEPARTMENT maximum of 30 minutes is suggested.

Then remove food and let children leave the table.

Suggestions from Goodspeed & Johnson: Care and Training of Children.

"It is one thing to be well informed as to the best foods for body growth and the maintenance of health.

But to feed these foods successfully to members of a family is quite another matter.

It is nota rare occasion when one hears a young mother say 'I simply cannot induce Peter to eat the vegetables he should, but for that matter, I never eat carrots or cabbage myself." 138 "Said little Sue's sister, "The hard- -est job we have is to make Sue eat; we have done everything suggested, but, it always ends in mother's patience flying out of the window, and Sue getting punished.

I'm ashamed of it, but, often I find myself just shouting commands to eat.' 128 "We have said before that example plays a large part in the learning process.

If big brother John, who goes to high school, refuses tne spinach, and father says, 'No carrots for me, please,' how can little Sue be expected to want them." 138 "Avoid Food Discussions?One of the greatest mistakes made is to discuss the family food dislikes, and those of the child in his hearing.

The latter gives him a feeling of importance.

The fact that he does not want to eat is important enough to be talked about?constantly worrying and fussing during the meal hour to induce the child to eat is just another way of making a child realize his power.

He likes to have the older folks concerned with his affairs instead of absorbed in their own." 139 "Fear, anger, and excitement are known through science to stop the secretions of the digestive tract.

Is 695 little Mary in any condition to enjoy, digest, and assimilate food?

In this mood she may even form a dislike for the bowl of bread and milk offered, because she was emotionally upset on coming to the meal. 139 "The food should be simple, well seasoned, and attractively served in not too large amounts.

A plate too full of food is a task which some children cannot even attack.

Learn the correct portions for children of different ages and be consistent in using them.

Serve even smaller portions of foods which are not well liked until the child has learned to accept them. 139 "Let the equipment at meal time be suited to the child. 139 "A Happy State of Mind is Necessary.?The state of mind in which a cnild comes to the meal is important.

Give him enough time to bring his play to a point where it can be left with a certain sense of completion; and see that between the washing of the hands and the meal there is about ten minutes for a rest, just a few minutes for relaxing in a roomy chair, on a couch, or on a soft rug.

Unless the person who serves the meal and who remains in the room to give needed help, is in a cheerful mood, the meal will hardly be a success.

But, it is wise for the server, whether mother, sister, or aunt not to give undivided attention to the child.

"Place the food on the table, do not hurry him, do not nag, scold, nor bribe him to eat.

Give helpful suggestions stich as 'Eat some of the carrots, they are better hot;' 'push the food toward the middle of the plate, then it can't spill'; "when I eat tapioca I take this much on a spoon, then I do not get it on my cneek or dress.' Talk occasionally about his play.

It is not necessary, however, 696 to keep up a constant run of conversation." 140-141. "Try to show no worry or concern if he does not eat all of the food, but, see that some of all the food served is eaten.

If the main meal is not all eaten, serve no dessert; let that be understood from the start.

It is not wise to emphasize the dessert by giving it any particular importance in the meal, but it should be plain that we do not go to the dessert, until the main plate is empty.

Twenty minutes is sufficient time for breakfast and supper and thirty minutes for dinner.

At the end of that time remove the tray, whether the food is eaten or not.

The meal is over.

Don't talk about it." 141 "The next important step is, that no food is given from that meal until RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the next, no matter how much it is requested." 141 "Points to Remember in Building Good Food Habits?The main points to remember in helping a child to form good food habits are?serve simple, appetizing, attractive food in correct amount at regular periods in the day.

Allow no food between meals.

Let it be understood that we eat all food put on our plates.

The meal time is to be a pleasant one, free from scolding, threats, or evident worry on the part of parent or big sister or brother, who is serving the little one's food.

A tired, angry, or worried child will have but little appetite for food.

There must be no discussion of food dislikes before the child; finally, all members of the family should train themselves to good food habits."