[Vol23 | October 1936 | Sequence: 28 | Category: Guide | Title: Lesson Department]

Lesson Department (For First Week in December)
THEOLOGY AND TESTIMONY
Lesson 3 A DIVINE CODE TO THE IDEAL LIFE (The Sermon on the Mount)
Helpful References (The Sermon is divided for convenience into four major divisions.)
Matthew 5:1-16; 5:17-20; 5:21; 7:12; 7:13-27. Luke 6:20-26; 6:27-42; 6:43-49. Book of Mormon: 3 Nephi 12:1-16; 3 Nephi 12:17-20; 3 Nephi 12:21; 14:12; 3 Nephi 14:13-27.
Jesus the Christ, Chapter 17. King, The Ethics of Jesus, Chapter 5 Farrar, The Life of Christ, Chapter 18.
1. Christ Emphasized Significant Principles.
In this lesson we shall deal with certain aspects of the Sermon on the Mount as a whole. So important did the Christ consider the content of the Sermon, that he delivered it also to the Nephites on His first appearance to them as a glorified, resurrected being. Most, if not all of the great truths, set forth in this, the greatest of all sermons, are to be found in world literature written long before the earthly advent of the Savior. Such we should expect on the assumption that the gospel was in the world before the coming of our Lord. The great principle of love and mercy was by no means a new teaching. The Old Testament, the Jewish Scripture, emphasizes the love of God and the duty of a man to love his neighbor. Where is to be found much finer teaching than that given in Micah 6:8? "He has told thee, O man, what is good; and what does Jehovah require of thee, but to do justly, and to love mercy, and to walk humbly with thy God?" Or that expressed in the Book of Jonah, which has fitly been termed the "gospel" before the gospel? Was not practical religion aptly expressed by Isaiah 58:6, 7? "Is not this the fast that I have chosen? To loose the bonds of wickedness, to undo the bands of violence, and to set at liberty the oppressed, and that ye break every yoke? Is it not to deal thy bread to the hungry, and to bring the poor that are cast out to thy house? When thou seest the naked, that thou cover him; and that thou hide not thyself from thine own flesh?"
Not only these but other great teachers exalted high principles of living. Buddha extolled the principle of mercy, and Confucius taught the Golden Rule, albeit in a negative way. Despite all we have said, however, it must be confessed that the Savior in his Sermon carries the teachings of the good life to a height scarcely expressed elsewhere. This lies not so much in the fact that others have not said any of the great things he says, but in the fact that he seizes on those principles that are really and truly significant, sifts them out from the less significant ones, and consistently carries them through to their logical ends. President Henry Churchill King of Oberlin College quoted with approval the statement of Professor Votaw: "Jesus' originality?and the term is not misapplied?consisted in his divine ability to separate the true from the false, the permanent from the transient, the perfect from the imperfect; and then to carry forward the whole circle of ideas and practices to their ideal expression." Also quoted with approval are the words of the great German scholar, Wellhausen: "The originality of Jesus consists in this, that he had the feeling for what was true and eternal amid a chaotic mass of rubbish and that he enunciated it with the greatest emphasis."
2. The Savior Delivered the Sermon to the Nephites.
It is of significance that the Savior in his appearance to the Nephites gave the Sermon substantially as it is written in Matthew 5, 6, 7, rather than in the version of Luke. Most scholars recognize the report of Matthew to be of greater authenticity than Luke's. Latter-day Saints have good reason to believe that the Sermon was written down by some responsible person at approximately the time the Lord gave it. This must be so; otherwise one is at a loss to understand His strict injunction to the Nephites to keep careful records. (3
Nephi 23:7-14.) Modern revelation seems to imply that, contrary to widely accepted views of some scholars, records were kept in the earliest days of the Primitive Church. (See also Doctrine and Covenants 7; 63:20, 21. Compare Matthew 17:1-10; 93:6-18.)
3. The Ideal Life.
Needless to say, the Sermon on the Mount has been the subject of almost endless analysis and study. For our purposes here, we may more or less conveniently follow the outline of Professor Votaw, one of the greatest students of the subject. In Matthew 5:1-16 the ideal life is described. The characteristics of such a life are described in verses 1-12. Of the latter, 3-12 constitute what are known as the Beatitudes. Inasmuch as these form the basis of the lesson to follow we shall not discuss them here. Verses 13-16 sum up the mission of the ideal life. Those whose lives are fit become "the salt of the earth," "the light of the world." They are to let their "light shine before men" that God may be glorified thereby.
4. Relation of the Ideal Life to the Earlier Hebrew Ideal.
In the next major division of the Sermon, Matthew 5:17-20, the Savior points out the relation of the ideal life to the earlier Hebrew ideal expressed in the Mosaic law. "Think not that I am come to destroy the law or the prophets. I am not come to destroy, but to fulfil." The older law had fulfilled its purpose. As the Lord explained to the Nephites, "the covenant which I have made with my people is not all fulfilled; but the law which was given unto Moses hath an end in me. Behold, I am the law, and the light." (3
Nephi 15:8, 9.)
5. Outworkings of the Ideal Life.
In Matthew 5:21; 7:12 we have a masterly description of the outworkings of the ideal life. First, in deeds and motives. (Matthew 5:21-48.) Not only should there be no slaying or adultery, but, what strikes at the root of these, no hatred or impurity of thought; oaths were to be replaced with simple truthfulness, and retaliation with service that outruns selfish demands. "Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect." Secondly, in real religious worship. (Matthew 6:1-18.) Worship to be acceptable in the eyes of God demands a humble and filial spirit. The inner aspects of it rather than the outer aspects as practiced by the Pharisees are emphasized. "Take heed that ye do not your alms before men, to be seen of them: otherwise ye have no reward of your Father which is in heaven." Thirdly, in trust and self-devotion. (Matthew 6:19-34.) The real treasures of heaven are to be found in the single-hearted and trustful service of God. "But seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness." Fourthly, in treatment of others. (Matthew 7:1-12.) Here the Savior points out the danger of unrighteous use of our critical faculties and by implication the sacredness of human personality. "Therefore all things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them."
6. The Duty of Living the Ideal Life.
The last major division of the Sermon, Matthew 7:13-27, deals with the duty of living the ideal life. The door to the Kingdom is narrow. "Enter ye in at the strait gate." The true and false subjects are readily contrasted. "By their fruits ye shall know them." In conclusion we may point out that the Savior "taught them as one having authority and not as the scribes." (Matthew 7:29.)
Questions
1. Were the principles enunciated by the Savior in the Sermon on the Mount new to the world? Collect and present proofs of your statements.
2. In what ways was the Lord a master teacher? How do you account for His ability?
3. Can you point to some elements original with the Savior in the Sermon on the Mount?
Problems for Further Study (Treat only those that time and circumstances permit.)
1. Compare Luke's account of the Sermon on the Mount; (Luke 6:20-49) with that of Matthew. (Matthew 5, 6, 7.) Briefly report the differences. Can you satisfactorily account for them?
2. Make a careful comparison of the Sermon on the Mount as reported in Matthew 5, 6, 7 with the Sermon delivered by the Savior to the Nephites (3 Nephi 12, 13, 14.) Report briefly on the following points: (1) The differences in the two accounts; (2) The contributions of the Book of Mormon to an understanding of the Sermon as, e.g. The groups of people to whom certain parts of the Sermon applied. (3 Nephi 12:1-2, 14; 13:25; 14:1.)
3. How would you account for the fact that so much of the Sermon as reported in the Book of Mormon is word for word the same as that given in the Gospel of Matthew?
4. With the help of the Book of Mormon see if you can make a better and more logical outline of the Sermon than that used in the body of the lesson. Report your results to the class.
TEACHER'S TOPIC
TEACHER'S TOPIC FOR DECEMBER THE PARABLE OF THE PRODIGAL SON (Luke 15:11-24)
THE parable of the Prodigal Son was given in answer to the murmur of the scribes and Pharisees who said, "This man receiveth sinners, and eateth with them."
"And he said, A certain man had two sons: "And the younger of them said to his father, Father, give me the portion of goods that falleth to me. And he divided unto them his living. "And not many days after, the younger son gathered all together, and took his journey into a far country, and there wasted his substance in riotous living. "And when he had spent all, there arose a mighty famine in that land; and he began to be in want. "And he went and joined himself to a citizen of that country; and he sent him into his fields to feed swine. "And he would fain have filled his belly with the husks that the swine did eat: and no man gave unto him. "And when he came to himself, he said, How many hired servants of my father's have bread enough, and to spare, and I perish with hunger! "I will arise and go to my father, and will say unto him, Father, I have sinned against Heaven, and before thee, "And am no more worthy to be called thy son: make me as one of thy hired servants. "And he arose, and came to his father. But when he was yet a great way off, his father saw him, and had compassion, and fell on his neck, and kissed him. "And the son said unto him, Father, I have sinned against Heaven, and in thy sight, and am no more worthy to be called thy son. "But the father said to his servants, Bring forth the best robe, and put it on him; and put a ring on his hand, and shoes on his feet: "And bring hither the fatted calf, and kill it; and let us eat, and be merry: "For this my son was dead, and is alive again; he was lost, and is found. And they began to be merry."
The first instance in the parable is an assertion of self-will, when the son asks for that part of the inheritance which belongs to him. The father apparently without protest divided his substance and gave the son his rightful share. Not many days after he gathered his goods together and journeyed into a far country as a demonstration of his freedom to do as he chose. He indulged in spendthrift folly and soon became destitute. He became a slave to sin, demonstrating that "a man who does as he likes becomes a slave to his likes." But when he came to himself, he saw his mistakes and sorely repented. To return to his father broken and penitent was not easy. He said, "I have sinned against heaven and in thy sight." His confession and repentance was genuine and was accepted by the father.
This story portrays the love God has for his children and the forgiveness he is willing to extend to them. It emphasizes the intense love God has for the sinner and his eager desire to reclaim him. The folly of waywardness and the humiliation that results from sin are pictured. It proves the justice of giving the fallen a chance to rise and the value of true repentance. If an earthly father can be so forgiving, how much more forgiving is our Heavenly Father to those who seek forgiveness. It is said of this parable that it touches "the nerve of actual life and has caught vividly human history." Charles Dickens said: "It is the most touching passage in all literature."
May we emphasize in our study of this parable of the Prodigal Son the true value of genuine repentance and the love and compassion extended to the one who had sinned. If the father could accept his repentance and confession may we not view with a more forgiving attitude the mistakes of others? We desire to apply the teaching of the Parables to our own circumstances, to make applications of their teaching to our lives. Forgiveness, humility, repentance, performance of duty, charity for others, mistakes, power of prayer, stability and courage are daily problems with most of us. These lessons can be learned through prayer and search. "Search the Scriptures for in them ye think ye have eternal life."