VOL. XVII JANUARY, 1930 No. 1
EDITORIAL
The Bright New Year
With the dawning of the New Year 1930, every Latter-day Saint will be transported in spirit, for this dawning means the review of a century of achievement in Church and in world progress. It marks the passing of the greatest century that this world has ever known. The ushering in of the new year will rivet the thought of Latter-day Saints on April 6, 1830, when six persons were organized into the Church, which has been the pride, the hope, of thousands through the years that have gone.
We are living in a day of unprecedented progress, in business; nevertheless business has a larger concern for human welfare than it has ever had before in history. Men who have amassed fortunes seem anxious that their accumulations of wealth shall be used in some definite way for human betterment. One may elect to contribute money for the banishment of disease not yet conquered; another, for alleviation of human misery where there is much poverty; others have their hearts set on the abolition of crime; while still others feel it incumbent upon them to do everything in their power to destroy war. All these things are heralds of a better day; consequently the close of this first century in the history of the Church is but the dawning of another brighter day. A hundred years have virtually given to us a new heaven and a new earth; yet the new century that bursts into being will have for us other and better things. Just now the peace dove hovers near. May the new year give added strength to a movement so worthy.
At the head of our greatest governments are two men who have literally come up through the toils to the first place. They are filled with the milk of human kindness, anxious to better the conditions of humanity. President Hoover's work for children, has behind it a force for regeneration that cannot be measured, while Premier Ramsey Macdonald's sympathetic nature is seeking to sound the depths of British suffering to the end of its amelioration; and these two great historical figures are combining for the abolition of war.
The Eliza Roxey Snow Poem Contest
We are particularly happy to report that sixty-nine poems were entered for the 1929 poetry contest?an increase of nineteen poems over last year. Mrs. Elsie E. Barrett, well known throughout the State for her painting and sketching, is the winner of the first prize. She is at present living in Los Angeles, California. The second prize is awarded to Mrs. Linnie Fisher Robinson of Salt Lake City. Honorable mention is given to Merling D. Clyde of Price, Utah; Josephine M. Duncan of Springville, Utah; and Miranda Walton of Woodruff, Utah.