Mrs. Caine was the oldest daughter of Frederick A. and Margaret Mitchell, both active in Church affairs in the 13th Ward in Salt Lake City, where Margaret was born August 28, 1859. Her father was a successful and prominent merchant, her mother a cultivated and beautiful woman, who outside the home engaged in kindly acts for others less fortunate than herself. She was counselor to Sister Rachel Grant, mother of President Heber J. Grant, in the ward Relief Society, so relief work was something of a heritage to Margaret, who enlisted when quite young in the same cause.
Maggie Mitchell, as her friends and dear ones called her, had a happy and pleasant childhood. The environment of her early years was refined and cultural. In those pioneer days, before the railroad came, there were few homes more comfortably or finely furnished than the Mitchell home, which was always a choice gathering place for neighbors and friends. She was a bright, intelligent little girl, surpassing many of her companions in school and Sunday School classes. Her opportunities were as good as the times afforded. She attended the private schools of Mr. Raeger and Miss Mary Cook who taught in the old Social Hall, and later she attended the University of Deseret. For a Sunday School teacher she was favored in having dear Aunt Zina Young, whose angelic influence left its mark on many of her pupils; for she not only taught to them the Book of Mormon and the gospel, but instilled in their souls an abiding faith in the goodness and mercy of the Lord.
Maggie's father, Brother Frederick A. Mitchell, performed two missions to the Hawaiian Islands, and on the one taken in 1873 took his family with him. Maggie was then 14 years old. She had a circle of playmates of whom she was very fond; this was the first parting and quite an event to that group of little girls. It had its romance as well as its sadness, for soon there were other partings of the way, never to be again renewed—but now there must be parties and gifts and farewells and promises of letters, just as there are today when one takes a journey, only then it was a much rarer occasion. True to her promise, she wrote home some very interesting letters, which from the pen of one so young were quite remarkable. Descriptions of the foliage, flowers, and beauty of the Islands, the grandeur and magnificence of the great Pacific, the fierceness, fury, and thrill of Mauna Loa erupting fire and molten lava—what a spectacle for children to contemplate! But what astounded them most was the fact that they had been superseded by a group of little Kanakas as playmates.
Shortly after the return from this mission, her father engaged in business in Coalville, Summit County, and moved his family there. It was here Maggie met, and was wooed and won by young Alfred Caine, son of Hon. John T. Caine, delegate from Utah to Congress, and business manager for many years of the Salt Lake Herald. This union was happy in every respect and the future looked most promising. The young couple made their abode for a short time in Coalville, then moved to Salt Lake City, where eventually they built a commodious and pretty home. Four little ones came to bless this union, but the shadow of death hovered near and two boys and a lovely little girl died in infancy. This great sorrow actuated all the more the love and tenderness bestowed upon the one son "Fred," who was left to them. When nine short years had passed, her husband, Alfred Caine, died from typhoid fever. Now came the real test of her womanhood, when in her widowed sorrow she had herself and little son to care for. Bravely she faced the issue and carried on.
When President Heber J. Grant was called to go to Japan to open up that mission, "Fred" Caine was one of the young men called to accompany him. This young man filled a fine mission in Japan, remaining there several years; during that time he acquired a knowledge of the Japanese language and customs and assisted in the translation of the Book of Mormon and several Latter-day Saint hymns into Japanese. After his return from this mission he married and moved to Idaho Falls, where he became stake president, honored and beloved by his associates, a credit always to the name he bore and to the teachings of his devoted mother. His untimely death last summer no doubt hastened her demise a few weeks later.
Mrs. Caine lived a useful and busy life, engaging in many varied activities. She was greatly interested in sericulture, being a member of the territorial organization. She not only traveled extensively in the effort to promote this industry and encourage the women to raise cocoons and plant the necessary mulberry trees, but she also did this thing herself and won prizes at the Fair for her fine specimens of silk cocoons and raw silk. She also learned to spin and weave the silk. She helped put the measure through the legislature for a bounty on cocoons in order to put the industry on a firm basis, and was among the most active protestants when that act was repealed. At the World's Fair at Chicago in 1893 she had charge of the Utah silk exhibit and demonstrated the procedure of its manufacture. She at that time and during the preparation of Utah's exhibit was private secretary to Mrs. Margaret Blaine Salisbury, chairman for Utah of the Board of Lady Managers.
For a period of six years, from 1902 to 1908, she was a member of the General Board of the Relief Society under the presidency of Bathsheba W. Smith. In this capacity she traveled extensively throughout the different stakes, visiting the people and instructing in Relief Society work. She was especially interested in the practical nurse work of the organization and a sincere advocate of the gleaning and storing of wheat.
In 1899 Mrs. Caine, in company with Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, Mrs. Susa Young Gates, and a large group of Utah women, attended the quinquennial of the International Council of Women held in London, and with them was a guest at many brilliant functions given in honor of the delegates to the Council, one of which was the Queen's tea at Windsor Castle. While on this journey she availed herself of the opportunities of visiting historic places in the British Isles, including the city of Edinburgh, also Shakespeare's home at Stratford-on-Avon, and other shrines connected with the immortal bard.
She was an early ordinance worker in the Salt Lake temple and continued in that work during her entire life, having been at her post of service until within a few days of her death, covering a period of over thirty years. She was in politics a Democrat and worked for her party in local primaries and conventions, being rewarded at one time with the position of county auditor. She was a member of the Reapers' Club and the Utah Woman's Press Club, giving to both of these organizations her usual earnestness and loyalty.
Hers was a life replete with usefulness and good deeds. Sometimes she may have felt the journey long and life's lessons hard; but her patience, her forbearance, her industry, her faith, gave her an experience that proved a strength and staff to the end of the way. Such was the nature of Margaret Mitchell Caine. She knew "How sublime a thing it is to suffer and be strong."
The Rainbow's Ending
If the rainbow spanned a prismy arch, When I was young and bolder, It spans a golden super-arch Today when I am older.
If skies were blue when I was young, With cloud-dust intertwining, Today their blue with gold is spun And clouds have turned their lining.
If friends were allies in my youth To joy-dreams of the morrow, Today in tested ranks of truth They steady me in sorrow.
And so I cull from out the past A fuller, deeper blending; And in the things that live and last I find the rainbow's ending.
—Bertha A. Kleinman.
Medical Aspects of the Word of Wisdom By L. Weston Oakes, M. D.
A book recently published by the Brigham Young University, written by a member of its medical staff, shows that at the time the revelation known as the "Word of Wisdom" was given there were in the medical world numerous schools based upon different hypotheses concerning the causes of disease, prescribing drugs dosing with alcohol, "stuffing the body with food for one disease and starving it for another," practising "blood-letting and various other uncertain means" for the supposed welfare of the human system. Then came the Word of Wisdom, declaring against strong drinks, tobacco, the excessive use of meats and other forms of intemperance. This was a direct challenge to the medical learning of that time.
Dr. Oakes discusses the subject in five chapters: Introduction, Alcohol and Humanity, Tobacco and Humanity, The Tea and Coffee Question, Bits of Health Wisdom. The findings of modern science on the effects of alcohol on the human body, are given in some detail, its effects upon parenthood and the unborn, upon the nervous system and upon long life, are presented by the testimony of specialists in each of these fields.
"A little alcohol," writes one of the authorities, "lessens self-consciousness, with the result that the subject speaks without reserve, and without confining himself to what is important. Conversation is diluted with trivialities. We may admit that this is enlivening. But how much the animating potency of wine at banquets, is over-estimated! There is a simple reason for its undeserved reputation; and this is found in lowered standards of judgment on the part of those who listen to what is said. The ready laughter and applause do not indicate brilliancy on the part of the speaker nearly so often as a readiness to be amused on the part of the listeners. In the midst of such company, the total abstainer feels an amazement verging on disgust, as he observes the demonstrations that greet speeches which in themselves are wholly inane and commonly in bad taste."
The case against tobacco is similarly pungent, powerful and convincing. Young people will do well to read this concise book of 125 pages filled from cover to cover with striking demonstrations of the baneful effects of intemperance.
Presidents of Relief Society of Liberty Stake
LOTTA PAUL BAXTER, MYRTLE SHURTLIFF, HAZEL GREENWOOD, EFFIE MERRITT, ANNIE S. MUSSER, IDA S. REES;
The following women have each in turn presided over the Relief Society of Liberty Stake: Sister Annie S. Musser, Sister Effie Merrill, Sister Lotta Paul Baxter, Sister Myrtle Shurtliff and Sister Hazel Greenwood. Sister Ida D. Rees being the present incumbent. Sister Lotta Paul Baxter and Sister Hazel Greenwood are at present serving on the General Board of the Relief Society. We thought it an opportune time to make use of this portrait while all are living.
Address By Dr. Joseph F. Merrill, Church Commissioner of Education
I feel greatly honored and doubly pleased with the opportunity of coming here, because from one point of view I am talking, practically, to the entire Church. May I outline to you what religious education the Church is providing?
First — I claim it first because it comprehends the entire Church membership from the cradle to the grave — is the Sunday School organization, meeting on the most favorable day in the week, at the most favorable hour of the day, and doing effective work in religious instruction.
As to the opportunities for weekday religious training, one of the first changes I made was to transfer teacher-training from the Department of Education to the Sunday School. Then came the transfer of a large amount of weekday religious training to the Primary Association. Some have asked if I am trying to destroy the Department of Education. It matters not how small the Department of Education becomes, if the changes improve the religious training of the people. The transfer of teacher-training to the Sunday School places teacher-training in charge of the organization best qualified to carry it on.
A survey disclosed that the Primary and the Religion Class work were being duplicated. The majority of the children did not belong to both — they would belong to the one or the other. We decided that it would be better to make one effective than to carry two that were not. Therefore, we have abandoned nothing —I would like that message to get over — of weekday religious training. The Primary organization has the added responsibility of weekday instruction previously given in the elementary grades.