2. That the school should be near a city or town, so that employees can easily have interests in, and identify themselves with, the community, thus insuring the best type of employees and instructors.
3. That the site should have at the outset enough land to provide for future growth. (Some authorities claim that there should be one acre per child, and others half an acre; we should have about six or seven hundred acres of land.)
4. That the land should be fertile, and able to produce all kinds of grain.
5. That a water supply, adequate for both irrigation and culinary purposes, is very important. (Some of the sites offered have been eliminated because of scarcity of water.)
It is hoped that this institution will eventually be largely self-sustaining; hence there must be in connection with it farming, gardening, dairying, fruit raising. In such institutions it is the practice to have practically all the work done by the pupils. The commission has visited more than thirty sites, making notes and observations; and when the site is finally selected, you may know that, in the opinion of the commission, it will be the best location available.
The state law provides for two departments in the institution: a school department, for instruction and training for those within the school age, or who are capable of being benefited by school instruction; a custodial department, which will consist of those beyond school age, or not capable of being benefited by school instruction. The latter group will be given training in unskilled labor, kindergarten work, arts, crafts, etc. The law states also that this institution is not for feeble-minded convicts or defective delinquent children.
Regarding feeble-mindedness, I should like to state that just a few of us are entirely able-bodied, so most of us go through life more or less mentally handicapped. Between the mental disability of which the possessor may never be conscious, and so-called feeble mindedness, there are all possible gradations, and all of us fit in somewhere along the line. Psychiatrists tell us that a so-called feeble-minded person differs from the normal person only in learning ability, and that the principles of mental hygiene apply to him just as they do to the rest of society; that we all have the same emotional problems. The aim of society is to assist the child of slow learning ability to good personality development and to success. When the child of poor learning ability attends regular schools, he soon comes to feel inferior, losing self respect and self confidence, both of which are essential to mental health. So it is recommended that those with slow learning ability be placed in ability groups rather than in so-called defective classes. In fact, it is the idea of modern education that all children should be placed in groups with others of like ability. This enables pupils to go fast or slow, just as they are able, and keeps them from making dismal failures. Failure, to the pupil of slow learning ability, is just as tragic as it is to the normal child. The basic idea, then, of a training school for the feeble-minded, is to make it possible for the pupils to learn just as they are able to learn, and what they are able to learn — in other words to give them exactly the right opportunity. With such a special state school, and with opportunity for special classes in the regular schools for retarded pupils, all children should have opportunity to do what they are capable of doing.
I have been authorized by the state commission to express officially to you the appreciation of the commission for the excellent work you have done in helping to secure this much needed institution, and to thank you, in their behalf, for your aid. I think Relief Society women could do nothing finer than to help to better opportunity those who lack initiative and ability to work for themselves.
Theological Studies for the Year
By General Secretary Julia A. F. Lund
It has been suggested that I make a few remarks on the theological study selected for the Relief Society for this present year. The Relief Society feels that, within the scope of its organization, it affords a wonderful place for theological education. The tide of a nation's life can rise no higher than its womanhood! The mother holds the strategic position in the home; in the life of the people, therefore, it is necessary that she be versed in lines of study that are vital in life. There is no more important subject than that of theology. Man cannot live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth from the mouth of God. We feel that our mothers should be informed in this knowledge of the word of God.
I would like to refer to the Article of Faith that says, "We believe the Book of Mormon to be the word of God." We have taken it as the subject of our studies. As we approach the one hundredth anniversary of the organization of the Church, let us give attention to this marvelous book. It is a source of great satisfaction, and a great stimulant in the promotion and development of our faith that we can turn our attention to the foundation stones upon which our faith is reared. During past years we have given study to the Hebrew scriptures, the life of the Savior as portrayed in the New Testament, the gospel dispensations, and many other interesting fields, and now it seems proper to review and refresh our memories with a more intimate knowledge of this great book of scripture. Our faith is the most vital power in our life today; it is the great judgment-forming institution of life, supplying the objective for our best efforts. It gives us the force and the power to face life in the blackest situations.
We propose to study the Book of Mormon in the light of the knowledge we may have had in the past, to correlate it with our knowledge of the Testament studies, and to see in both the life of the Savior, with the inspiration which will come from that study. It has been suggested in the preview that we first read the Book of Mormon thoroughly to gain a picture of the work in its fulness. Step by step, as we read of their development, we can see in the calling of Lehi much the same purpose as in the calling of Abraham. Along with Abraham, as the Lord spoke to him face to face and told him of the mighty spirits in heaven, we like to think of Lehi as being among this group, and we would trace the people from their small beginning to the mighty nation developed upon the American continent. We touch the marvelous romance, the great dramatic situations, and the marvelously interesting events. Then, perhaps during the second year of the study, we can give more particular attention to the doctrinal phases of the Book of Mormon. Though in any study of the Book of Mormon we cannot miss the spiritual life that breathes from every page, yet in this second year of study we direct more attention to the principles of the gospel as they are set forth in the lives of the great leaders — Lehi and Nephi. The third year could perhaps be devoted to a study of the divine authenticity of the book, as it is reflected through the internal and external evidences that are developing day by day. The Book of Mormon, from the standpoint of theological teaching is one of the most perfect books ever written; it gives us the gospel in its purity and strength, and we would have our women know it through the reading and research that they themselves can give. The Book of Mormon has been with us for more than one hundred years; it has been the target for adverse criticism and for ridicule — the most dreadful intellectual weapon that can be wielded; but it stands today unanswerable, undisputed in its divine authenticity. We would know this book; we would know of the beautiful things that are therein contained, and we believe that our women can know them if they will follow the advice of the book itself: "Behold I would exhort you that when ye shall read these things, if it be wisdom in God that ye should read them, that ye would remember how merciful the Lord hath been unto the children of men, from the creation of Adam, even down until the time that ye shall receive these things, and ponder it in your hearts. And when ye shall receive these things, I would exhort you that ye would ask God, the eternal Father, in the name of Christ, if these things are not true; and if ye shall ask with a sincere heart, with real intent, having faith in Christ, he will manifest the truth of it unto you, by the power of the Holy Ghost; by the power of the Holy Ghost ye may know the truth of all things."
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
THE GENERAL BOARD
MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - President MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - - - - - First Counselor MRS. JULIA ALLEMANN CHILD - - - - Second Counselor MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND - - General Secretary and Treasurer
Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs. Cora L. Brennion Mrs. Elise B. Alder Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Ida P. Beal Mrs. Jessie B. Knight Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Kate M. Barker Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edwards, Music Director
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor - - - - - - - - Alice Louise Reynolds Manager - - - - - - - - Louise Y. Robison Assistant Manager - Amy Brown Lyman
Room 20, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
Magazine entered as secondclass matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah