Pioneer who not only blazed the path but also loved the flowers under foot and the peaks that companion with the stars. "My poems may be no better nor much worse than the poems of Virgil, Homer, Byron; but are they not new, unique? If not, then have my work and wanderings been in vain and my life labors, however delightful they have been in the doing, must be set down as a failure; for I have certainly had a golden harvest GUIDE LESSONS FOR MARCH 41 vefield and, with a few hard exceptions, the most glorious opportunity in all the world." Joaquin Miller's autobiography is not in any sense great. It consists merely of a few elementary notes telling of his experiences, but taken with his poems it does, as has been said, give the reader some idea of this early Western singer who was not so very original and who was not so very profound, but who deserves to be remembered at least by Westerners, among whom he is really little known, for his sincerity at least. A few of his poems will probably live always, either for the picture they draw of an era, such as "Kit Carson's Ride," or for the moral value they possess, such as "Columbus" and "The Fortunate Isles." THE FORTUNATE ISLES You sail and you seek for the Fortunate Isles, The old Greek Isles of the yellow bird's song Then steer straight on through the watery miles, Straight on, straight on, and you can't go wrong. Nay not to the left, nay not to the right, But on, straight on, and the isles are in sight, The old Greek Isles where yellow birds sing And life lies girt with a golden ring. These Fortunate Isles they are not so far, They lie within reach of the lowliest door; You can see them gleam by the twilight star; You can hear them sing by the moon's white shore? Nay, never look back! Those leveled grave stones They were landing steps; they were steps unto thrones Of glory of souls that have gone before, And have set white feet on the fortunate shore. And what are the names of the Fortunate Isles? Why, Duty and Love and a large Content. Lo, these are the Isles of the watery miles, That God let down from the firmament. Aye! Duty and Love and a true man's trust; Your forehead to God though your feet in the dust. Aye! Duty to man, and to God meanwhiles, And these, O Friends, are the Fortunate Isles. ?From Later Lines Preferred by London. THE BRAVEST BATTLE From Lines That Mother Liked The bravest battle that ever was founght; Shall I tell you where and when? On the maps of the world you will find it not: It was fought by the mothers of men.  Nay, not with cannon or battle shot, With sword or braver pen; Nay, not with the eloquent word or thought, From mouths of wonderful men. But deep in a woman's walled-up heart? Of woman that would not yield, But patiently, silently bore her part? Lo! There is the battle field. No marshalling troop, no bivouac song; No banners to gleam and wave; And, oh; these battles they last so long? From babyhood to the grave! Yet, faithful and still as a bridge of stars, She fights in her walled-up town? Fights on and on in the endless wars, Then silent, unseen?goes down. THE VOICE OF THE DOVE From Lines That Papa Liked Come listen, O Love, to the voice of the dove, Come, harken and hear him say, "There are many Tomorrows, my Love, my Love, There is only one Today." And all day long you can hear him say This day in purple is rolled, And the baby stars of the milky way They are cradled in cradles of gold. Now what is thy secret, serene gray dove Of singing so sweetly alway? "There are many tomorrows, my Love, my Love, There is only one Today." IN MEN WHOM MEN CONDEMN In men whom men condemn as ill I find so much of goodness still, In men whom men pronounce divine I find so much of'sin and blot, I hesitate to draw a line Between the two, where God has not. GUIDE LESSONS FOR MARCH 43 LIFE OF JOAQUIN MILLER Cincinnatus Hiner Miller was born in a covered wagon in the Wabash District, Indiana, November 10, 1841. His father, Hulings Miller, a schhool teacher of considerable learning, removed to Oregon when Joaquin was 9: Young Miller was sent to school but ran away to California, where he spent about two years in the mines, during which time he suffered many hardships. He is said to have been a filibuster with Walker, and Indian sachem and Spanish vaguero. He returned with $100, gave it to his father, and entered school. He then went to Columbia College, where he was graduated in 1858, valedictorian of his class. He read and studied law and was admitted to the bar in 1860. In the spring of 1861 he went to the gold mines of Idaho, where he is said to have given that territory the nick name which it still bears?'"Gem of the Mountains." There he turned express messenger. He returned in 1863 to Oregon and edited a paper called "The Democratic Register" at Eugene, Oregon; but the paper was soon suppressed for alleged treasonable utterances. He returned to the practice of law in 1864 at Canon City, Oregon, and was soon made judge of Grant County, a position which he held four years. He collected his poems under the title Songs of the Sierras, and being unable to get them published here went with them to London, England, where he published them at his own expense. To this volume he signed the name, "Joaquin" Miller, one he had assumed from having written a defense of the Mexican brigand, Joaquin Murietta. He then returned to America but again visited England in 1873, where he published Songs of the Sunland and One Fair: Woman. He returned to New York, but later settled at Washington, D. C. Where he wrote for various publications. In 1887 he returned to California and built him a home near San Francisco Bay. Tourists frequently visit it now as they did before his! Death. Many of the world's greatest literary lights called on the Poet of the Sierras there. He died April 17, 1913. He was a great lover of the Indians. He says somewhere: "All that I am or ever hope to be, I owe to them?I owe no white man anything at all. The Indians are my true and warm friends." Hamlin Garland's tribute upon Miller's death: '"Nevertheless, when all blue penciling has been finished, when all allowances are made, I think posterity will agree with old Walt (Walt Whitman), who said of him in substance, 'I am inclined to set Joaquin  Miller at the head of the whole list (of Western poets) because of his brave attempt at putting into verse the epic scenes and characters of our border-land.' " Articles of interest: "Passing of Tica Miller", Current Opinion, Vol 54, pages 318-19, April, 1913; "Poet of the Sierras', by Hamlin Garland, Sunset "Magazine, Vol. 30, pages 765-70, June, 1913; "Poet of the Sierras", by Elbert Hubbard, Hearst's Magazine, Vol. 23, pages 662-3, April 1913. "Close Up of the Poet", Literary Digest, Vol. 87, pages 82-87, November 14, 1925. Questions and Problems 1. Have a good reader read "Kit Carson's Ride". Comment on the introduction to the poem. Where was that introduction probably written? 2. Read "Columbus." What is there about the poem that inspires you?: 3. What experiences did Miller have in common with our early pioneers? 4, Why does he say his poems are foot ieee to his life? 5. If any one in the class has ever met Joaquin Miller or has ever visited his home above Oakland, she might tell of the incident. 6. It would be well to have members of the class read his poems and bring to class bits that would add to the autobigraphy. A Prayer Let me live long enough, O Lord, To learn to be Tolerant. Let me see Another's fault And not be quick To judge. Help me to live well enough, O Lord, That I may ne'er Feel shame. Give me strength To see and Conquer all my own Shortcomings. ?Adeline J. Haws, GUIDE LESSONS FOR MARCH 45 LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in March) THE FIELD OF SOCIAL WORK Lesson 3. Physical and Mental Diseases In the last lesson we discussed the extent and the causes of poverty. We considered also the principles of care for dependent families, dependent adults, and dependent children. One of the major causes of dependency, we saw, is physical or mental disease.