[Vol4 | June 1917 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Evolution of the American Flag A. B. L.]

Evolution of the American Flag By A. B. L. The idea of a national flag is, by no means, a modern one. The primitive peoples of the earth all had symbols or emblems of some sort, which they chose for sentimental reasons, and which they raised aloft in time of festivity, and in times of war. Each tribe had its own emblem, just as each nation of today has its own flag; and before the manufacture of cloth, these standards consisted of carved wooden objects attached to poles or staves. America was colonized under several flags. Each group of settlers used the flag of its mother country, and from the various colonies might have been seen, waving in the breeze, the English, Swedish, Dutch and Spanish flags, respectively. The majority of the early settlers of America were English, and for many years, the English flag (a red flag with the union jack in the corner) was used by them. However, as the colonists grew apart from the mother country, modifications of the English flag appeared here and there, and when the Stamp Act was passed by the English government, in 1765, there was a general outbreak of special flags. These special flags were patterned after the British flag. They were red and white in color, and most of them contained the cross of St. George, but special devices or features were added to them. The New England colonists used a pine tree, the South ern colonists a rattle snake, and Rhode Island, an anchor. Many of the flags contained mottoes expressing the indignation of the colonists. There was no attempt in the very beginning of the Revolutionary war to adopt a uniform flag, and these various devices were used; but after a few months of the war, it was decided that a uniform flag was not only desirable, but was also necessary. In December, 1775, a committee was appointed, with Benjamin Franklin as chairman, to look after several matters pertaining to the war, among which was the consideration of the adoption of a uniform flag. In the report from this committee, no mention was made of the flag, but there must have been some recommendation with regard to it, for in January, 1776, General Washington hoisted over his headquarters, in Cambridge, the new continental flag. This new flag was very much like the British ensign; it had the union jack in the corner, but instead of the solid red of the English flag, red and white stripes were used, ^he thirteen stripes represented the thirteen colonies, but the union jack recognized the sovereignty of England. 
 The origin of the stripes is not agreed upon  there arc two theories: First, that the idea was borrowed from the Dutch flag; second, that it was taken from the coat of arms of the Washington family! The continental flag was used about one and one half years. In June, 1770. six months alter the Continental flag was first used, it decided that in view of the impending Declaration of Independence, a change should be made in the flag. The resolution which was passed, making the change.possible, was as follows: Resolved: That the flag of the United States be thirteen stripes, alternated red and white, that the union be thirteen stars ?white, in a blue field, representing the new constellation. In June. 1777. this flag was adopted by the Continental congress. The credit of making the first American flag, combining the Stars and stripes, is uniformly given to Mrs. Betsey Ros. of Philadelphia. Mrs. Ross was a young widow, whose husband had been killed in an accidental explosion of military stores. Shewas a fine seamstress, and when it was learned by her friends that she had decided to take up sewing as a vocation, she was eagerly sought after by those who desired to have expert needle work done. Mrs. Ross sewed for the Washington family, and for George Washington, personally, making his fine shirts and embroidered ruffles. It was, therefore, only natural that when General Washington was looking for someone to put together the first flag, he should turn to Betsey Ross. According to the story, General Washington rode up to Mrs. Ross's modest little house, on horseback, and presented to her a rough drawing of the flag, which he explained to her. Mrs. Ross objected to the six pointed star in the design, and suggested that it be changed to five pointed star. She folded up a piece of paper, and with a single cl:p of her scissors, produced a perfect five pointed star. Her suggestion was accepted, and the sketch was redrawn by Washington.  Mrs. Ross was employed a number of years making flags for the government, and after her death, her daughter continued in the business. The little house in Philadelphia, where the first flag was made, has been purchased by an association known as the Betsey Ross Memorial Association. Funds were raised for the purpose by soliciting from donors  only ten cents each. Subscriptions came in from every state in the Union, and from many foreign countries. The building has been turned over to the Federal Government, as a historical shrine, and all visitors to Philadelphia make it a point to call at this very interesting house, and to sit EVOLUTION OF THE AMERICAN FLAG, 339 in the dingy back room where it is supposed that Betsey Ross sat while doing this piece of very important work. The stars in the first flag were placed in a circle, but as the number of states increased, they were placed in rows. At the present time, there are six rows of stars, with eight in each row  forty-eight in all, to represent the forty-eight states of our great republic. Thus, we see that the American flag of today is a growth rather than a creation. In a toast on the American flag, given by George Washington, at the time of its adoption, he said: "We take the stars from Heaven, the red from our Mother Country, separating it by white stripes, thus showing that we have separated from her, and the white Salute stripes-to shall go down to posterity, representing liberty." the Flag: / pledge my allegiance to the Hag and lo the Republic for which it stands  one Nation indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.