Vol. 41.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY, 1914		No. 14.


CONTENTS.
After Long Years.......................................	97
City Pride..................................................	97
The Suffrage Movement in England.........	98
Early Literary Women of Utah..................	100
Capital Cities in Colonial Days.................	102
Madame Mountford...................................	104
Editorial: 
	Heartfelt Farewell..............................	100
	Notice.................................................	100
	President Penrose...............................	100
	Thou Shalt Not Bear False Witness...	100
Poetry: 
	Sorrow and Tears...............................	97
	Sowing and Reaping..........................	102


SORROW AND TEARS.
Out of my sorrow and mourning,
	Out of its grief and its pain;
Its sighing and sobbing, and moaning,
	The deepest, and wildest refrain
Swells forth with a melody pleading
For the heart that is stricken and bleeding.
Regrets for past promises waiting,
	And prophecies yet unfulfill’d;
The tears and the voice that is waiting,
	The strength of strong passions distill’d;
The agony past self-containing,
The grief that o’ermasters restraining.
			—Emmeline B. Wells.


[Column 1]
		AFTER LONG YEARS.
Amid the grand old woods of oak and pine.
I sit me down, ’mong mosses, flowers and
	ferns,
And thought, with magic pow’r almost divine;
Unconsciously to other days returns.
	An excess of joy must always be tem-
pered with sadness, or at least blended, as
the minor notes blend with those that are
high and shrill, and while nature revels in
its glorious beauty, and the spirit rejoices
in accordance therewith, there are also low
tones of music sweet and clear that thrill to
the very center of the human heart and
stir its deepest fountains, with a something
indefinable, but which harmonizes with the
twilight, and the soft murmur of the brook-
let, and the song of the nightingale. And
in the train of thought that comes with
twilight shadows, soft murmuring waters,
and the songs of thrust and nightingale,
there steals athwart the soul a pensive ten-
derness, that stirs the oldest memories, and
all unconsciously, we stand as ’twere in
places where our feet have trod many
“long years ago,” and vividly before us, as
by enchantment all the realisms coeval
with the very hour, live again within our
hearts ;we see the wood-path where we
wound our way through tangled vines and
broke the rotten wood, and hear perchance
the woodman’s axe again, as though its
echoes lingered in our souls these forty

[Column 2]
years, and pushing onward through the
tangled copse pierced with the briars, gath-
ering here and there a wild-flower, we feel
the conscious touch of some soft hand with-
in our own, and, blessed memory! it thrills
us now as it did then, and we might dream
of bliss like this forever, were it not that
some fierce night owl with red eyes, glares
at us, or screeches its horrid notes, and
wakes us, as it were, in terror; or a serpent
hisses beneath our feet and warns us that
life’s path’s beset with danger. Yes even in
our memory of the past, the reveries of
blissful thoughts, these horrid phantoms
glide and mock at human happiness.
	And thus in the brightest moments of
our lives we are pursued by shadows; and
tis well, for we cannot bear too much of
sunshine and graciously the shadows inter-
vene, and sadness blends with joy, as shad-
ows with the sunlight, and the stars shine
in the darkness, as hope mingles with our
sorrows; and we know all things by con-
trast; and after toil and weariness there’s
rest, and thus we learn life’s lesson, and if
we’re wise we’ll gather precious treasures
by the way, and enshrine them in our hearts,
that we may feast upon them in our lonely
hours. The harvest of good fruit sewn by
kind acts, and loving words and deeds of
simple unaffected charity. These are the
gems that will adorn the brows of those
who live to bless their fellow beings.
	How many such, who now have passed
away our memory can recall and they will
live forever; and every spring the fair
green earth shall see, shall be the sweeter,
fairer, fresher, purer and more fragrant, be-
cause of these dear ones, whose deeds of
holy love have consecrated them to God;
and in the blessed morn of the eternal
spring when heaven shall crown the earth
with that ecstatic kiss that thrilling
through every fiber shall wake the dead,
and breathe into their re-awakened souls,
the consciousness of all they are and were
and are to be ,then shall we know what
gave us this keen sense of all the beautiful,
this power to draw such perfect imagery
and call up memories that long years have
buried deep; and all the magic and un-
known, will be revealed to those whose mis-
sion has been nobly filled.
	None should sit idle while there are
flowers or gems to gather, though they
must plunge into the thicket to obtain
them, or dive into the ocean’s depths, and
if we let our fear of thorns and briars daunt
us, or even the creatures beneath; then we
must be content without the blessing, for
none can conquer but the brave. And
when the victory is won we can sit down
and count our sorrows o’er, but till that
time, we must push on, and yet there are
some pleasant pastures by the way, and
healing waters where the thirsty traveler
may drink; and if we are diligent who
knows but we may reach the everlasting
hills that tempt us in the distance, that
seem so near until we try to reach them.
					AUNT EM.


CITY PRIDE.
		Alice Merrill Horne.
	I hold as a fundamental principle of good
government that each citizen, whether rich
poor, sick, well, old or young, should be re-
quired by the commonwealth of which he
or she is a necessary unit, to do his or her
just portion of labor in making and sustain-
ing a healthful and beautiful city. Our city
has not yet come into a full understanding of
her own. She has individual moral and
physical responsibility. We ought to have
efficient municipal officers. Further than
that, we have an individual duty to give
aid, so far as we may, singly and unitedly,
in the solution of these difficult problems.
	Though we are far from the Millennium,
may we not, as a united body of women,
hasten the reign of righteousness by, a
proper use of the suffrage? Is it not pos-
sible for us to use that sacred trust so sa-
credly that no self-seeking man shall pre-
sume to rear his head before a public office?
	What would you think of an ordinance-
to compel residents or landholders to keep
out weeds? What result would follow com-
pulsory house-screening, stable-screening,
and garbage-screening for a few years?
	What follows weekly moving of garbage
and manure from premises? We look upon
each citizen as an asset in the municipal cor-
poration. The citizens constitute the mu-
nicipal corporation’s greatest wealth. She 
has no more important problem than to pro-
vide the best means for preserving the
health and thus lengthening the lives of her
citizens. Those most interested along-these
lines prescribe a clean and beautiful city.
	“Man is that he might have joy.” So
spoke the prophet, and we accept it as true
philosophy also.
	That man might have joy, the home is
made, the city is founded, municipal gov-
ernment is established, and what, tell me,
gives man more joy than a clean and beau-
tiful home, a clean and beautiful yard, a
clean and beautiful city? These indeed
make life sweet and build a perfect setting
for Godliness.
	I would like to bring to the hearts of
those present the opportunity that this won-
derful Young Ladies’ Mutual Improve-
ment Association has squarely before it,
even the privilege to organize and utilize an
enormous amount of energy (that is daily
wasted, misdrected, or lost) toward en-
riching soil, destroying weeds, placing, trees
and hedges, planting vegetable gardens, de-
signing flower beds and window boxes,
making lawns.
	We could, if we would, make of this city
a veritable garden of Eden. Let us set
aside beauty for a moment and become sor-
did. It would pay—alas that is the measure
into which everything must fit, for we are
in a Commercial process and at the com-
mercial stage. Yes, it would pay! A yard,
six rods by ten, this season produced fully
$50 in fruit and vegetables, and gave the


[Column 1]
same profit for flowers, and over one hun-
dred large bunches of flowers sent to
friends besides. So, it is a conservative
estimate that I give you when I say that
within two years from its entire setting out,
in the form of a park, a block would be sav-
ings its residents one thousand dollars per
year, and furnishing bouquets, too, for
friends.
	The residents on any block could unite.
Here we are friends, relatives, neighbors
of long standing. Let us take out the un-
sightly fences, mark our property lines with
rows of flowers, lay out the block as a park
—a combined vegetable garden, orchard,
vineyard, flower garden and lawn! It would
not only be a thing of beauty and a joy for-
ever, if it were unceasingly cared for; and
who would be content with the stale and
expensive market product after enjoying
the fresh vegetables and fruit from his own
vine and tree?
	I believe that the greatest difference be-
tween poverty and plenty, between poor
living and good living, is a home garden.
Then, just for a moment, think of that de-
graded poverty that never allows God’s
children to see even a bud unfold. Who
could have joy in such an unlovely life?
	It does cost work, it does take time. But
it brings joy! Digging is good for women,
for both old and young. Both of my grand-
mothers were gardeners of no mean order,
and both passed the eightieth mark and one
nearly reached ninety.
	There must be early rising. Say, did you
ever see a sunrise out in your own quiet
garden, where everything seemed waiting,
expectant, for the sunlight? Yes, garden-
ing pays, and in more ways than one.
	In parking a block, after the fences are
removed the soil should be fertilized by
manure and dead leaves that are available,
and must also be carted away. What a
waste to burn the leaves, and how dreadful
it makes the atmosphere. Walks should be
laid out and don’t be stingy about the
walks; make them broad and spacious. It
will add greatly to the beauty of your home.
Small, sunny patches should be filled in
with strawberries, rhubarb and asparagus,
and more shady spots will like English cur-
rants, goosberries, raspberries, sage, pars-
ley, mint, summer savory and thyme. Grapes
in the hottest soil and sunniest places, hung
on a long pergola or lattice, would be
charming. A small grove of English wal-
nuts and almonds, will pay large dividends
in good nuts, after eight years, and con-
tinue bearing many years. They are dec-
orative from the first. Mr. J. T. Harwood
has varieties of English walnuts that have
become acclimated to these parts and they
will not therefore freeze down in cold
weather, as all imported nut trees will.
	Now, right here is the ideal home of the
fruit trees. My grandfather, George A.
Smith, set out a splendid orchard of peaches,
pears, apples, apricots and plums.
	The centers of all our blocks are now
ugly weed patches; they offer a field for ro-
tating crops of corn, squash, potatoes, peas,
string beans, greens, carrots, beets, and onions.
	Now for flowers and lawns—the east side
has shown us what can be done with Salt
Lake. But before that, long years ago, oth-
ers blazed the way! Let us hark back to
when James Dwyer planted a rose garden in

[Column 2]
Salt Lake. Roses must not be planted
singly, but in rose gardens, and then we
have roses indeed.
	Have you forgotten the big lawn the Car-
rington girls made, irrigated and tended?
I think I sniff now the lovely, pure white
climbing roses on the south wall of the old
home—and there were the great red pe-
onies, too. Can you think back to the great
trees of white and purple lilacs, and the cab-
bage roses, all abloom in Grandmother Mer-
rill’s dooryard? Who has not been made
glad with a bunch of rare chrysanthemums
or roses from some wonderful flower gar-
den? On the old Irving school block, you
may find the finest General Jocks, asters and
sweet peas.
	Then there are the wonderful old moun-
tain willows—but few remain. A few re-
mained standing in the old University
grounds—now Salt Lake High school. How
I loved to pass near them, but alas the day
that I found the most beautiful ones among
them the monarchs of the grounds (and
there were many trees that were indeed
lovely) lying broken, helpless to lift their
dainty green, which always were the first
to open their buds in spring. Think of de-
stroying a half block of trees with a history
just to make a place in which boys and
girls might drill and play when a few blocks
away a hundred blocks lay empty, except of
sagebrush! Trees that, if they could speak,
could tell the story of the red men, of hunt-
ers with the flint and arrow, of dry, parched
desert places, of the entrance to this valley
of the pale face, of the first breaking of vir-
gin soil, the birth of irrigation, the hiding
of the desert’s nakedness beneath a mantle
of green—in a word, sentinels, witnesses of
all that our fathers have done. Yea, year
by year the grand old willows had lov-
ingly reached out in newer beauty, making
shadier seats under their wonderful willow
green tops—seats you and I have sought
for study periods. And now my heart
ached, my voice choked with tears when my
startled vision beheld them ruthlessly cut
down, destroyed forever. Now no re-
pentant hand could succor them or recall
the work of the cruel ax. Few remaining
trees were spared. Three stand on the
north side, just over the sidewalk, and one
on the west. They have, it is true, been
butchered, cut out of all true shape, but they
still retain the same wonderful color, the
same tender artistic feeling.
	We have but a few treasures left, a few
of the old trees, let us care for them and
make a beautiful setting for them. Shall we
then pull down the ugly fences, lay out
good walks, make lawns, plant rose gar-
dens, shrubs, flowers, orchards, vineyards,
and kitchen gardens? Let us do it now, and
make a beginning on our garden of Eden.
We have a beautiful city, by the inspiration
of God she has been set upon hills, slopes
that look out on a wonderful inland sea.
She is guarded and girded around by
mighty mountains, crowned with everlasting
snows, veiled with marvelous shades of
blue. She is blessed with clear, cooling
streams, fresh from ten thousand springs.
Her soils vary from sandy, graveled, loamy
to clayey earth and all can be made to grow
some lovely thing.
	Can we honestly lift our eyes in praise and
thanksgiving to God for these blessings and
permit the very earth under our feet, our
own inheritance, the sod encompassing our


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE SUFFRAGE MOVEMENT IN ENG-
			LAND.
	The phenomenon of the “Suffragette”—
generic title accorded to the representatives
of the militant movement on behalf of the
woman’s vote in England—has its organized
rival in a non-militant advocacy of the re-
form movement, whose adherents are
termed Suffragists even when respect is pas-
sive; besides these two, there is a third an-
tithetic party, frankly antagonistic to the
vote, who proclaim themselves as Anti-
suffragists. In addition, there is a surviv-
ing residue of English women whose fav-
orite policy is to evade the subject, but who,
if cornered for a definition of their views,
frown or smile, and confess to “not really
care for politics at all.”
	A dozen years ago in London, though the
term “New Woman,” exploited in a more
or less witty problem novel by Sarah
Grande, sounded somewhat stale, Women’s
Suffrage was not in the air current. What
was understood as essentially appertaining
to the matter had been discussed in courtly
fashion the foregone century: Tennyson’s
reflective intellect having bequeathed to
“sweet girl graduates” a sane analysis of
poignant complex questions in the sustained
rhythm, varied with melodic interludes, of
The Princess. To speak of “Women’s
Rights,” a score of years ago, was to recall
the domestic chaos of the Jellaby household,
if not to evoke simultaneously the shade of
Mrs. Pardiggle, whose visitations upon the
homes of the poor were inseparable with
havoc to outstanding articles wrought by
her sweeping train. If Dickens, or if Ten-
nyson, recalled to the scene of earthly vision,
could be asked to translate his impressions
of “The Signs of the Times,” as presented
by the campaign of his aggressive country-
women today, one wonders what creation of
an emancipated “type,” embodied in immor-
tal novel; what revelation of reversal to the
eternal feminine ideal, inspiring enchanting
verse, would be added to the world’s store?
	Though these return not, contemporary
literary opinion on the matter in question is
overtly expressed from time to time. Mr.
G. B. Shaw, the sardonic satirist of that
New England play, The Devil’s Disciple,
who has since, one suspects, become a satir-
ical poseur, has achieved a characteristic ex-
position of the subject in a stage-piece enti-
tled Fanny’s First Play. The acknowledged
head of the Anti-suffrage League is that
serene star of society and cultured conven-
tion, Mrs. Humphrey Ward. Miss Marie
Corelli has expressed a doubt as to the av-
erage British woman being a responsible
claimant for the imperial vote. Ouida,
whose latter volume of Critical Essays re-
vealed her to be secondary in intellectual
acumen to no predecessor amongst English-
speaking sister writers, left a word about
the matter prior to her lonely passing:—it
was a logical statement to the effect that the
assumption of' “equality” in certain senses
between the differently organized beings


[Column 1]
woman and man would result in the for-
feiture of that chivalry which is man’s defer-
ence, not to woman’s inherent weakness only,
but to her dower of delicacy and fineness,
psychal and temperamental, in the sum of
her strength.
	What, after all, is the destiny that woman
in her best development was intended by the
law of furtherance to fulfil? To achieve
submergence of her womanhood, a bur-
lesquing travesty of man, until Nature, out-
raged, brands her as a monstrous abortion,
or Time, in reactionary adjustment, disowns
her ancestry amidst a compensated genera-
tion’s laughter? Or is it for her to know
herself, complete, unique in individuality in-
deed, but in the electrical light of compar-
ison, seen decreed within herself to be, not
man’s double, but his complement, as surely
as he is hers? To recognize this is the rec-
ognize elemental truth, potentially motioned
towards infinite altitudes of the ideal in
realization. What, one ponders, can be the
attitude thereto of the militant Suffragists,
whose blatant egoism, revealed in vagaries
of ever increasing violence, has scourged the
land with lawlessness broadcast, soliciting
condonence of its crimes in pseudo-martyr-
dom?
	My introduction towards this form of suf-
fragism was at a certain stall of an exhibi-
tion, some seven years ago. Behind this stall
was a typical Suffragette, who, on my mak-
ing cursory examination of the pamphlets
and other suffrage “literature” of the stall,
advertised the opinions she was representing
in a hard, measured voice. She spoke in ex-
aggerated terms of a Miss Somebody whose
prowess appeared to consist in having in
various ways proved herself the equal of
man, in total independence of all masculine
aid, paternal or otherwise. “We” meaning
the amazonian army of the militant sister-
hood—“are prouder of her than of Joan of
Arc.”
	Joan the Maid, who spent her heroic life-
blood for a selfless realization of a dream, I
had heard of from time to time since daisy-
chain days: of the former lady never previ-
ously. The words and tone of the proclaimer
of her fame, however, brought by frictional
process to my mind the words of Tennyson:
	“Each like to each, yet like in difference.”
	“I think,” I replied, “a woman should
supplement, not substitute a man. Men
should be chivalrous.”
	Meanwhile the discussion had attracted a
little band of auditors around the stall.
Amongst them was an unmistakable French-
man, in an inverness cloak and wide-
brimmed hat; and a matronly elderly woman.
	At the latter words the Frenchman grave-
ly doffed his chapeau, while the woman said:
	“Men in England are not chivalrous as
they used to be in my younger days, and its
just the Suffragettes who are spoiling them
for us all!”
	Half a dozen years, and the Suffragette
vendor of the militant journal, Votes for
Women, has become as familiar a figure of
London streets as the Turkish bath sand-
wichman. Meanwhile, she had contrived to
contribute to the world a series of shocks.
Sudden sallies by surreptitious means into
the sacred precincts of parliament, attempted
invasion of the premier’s residence, have
been followed by wholesale smashing of
windows, and the destruction of the com-
munity’s letters in the public pillar-boxes.

[Column 2]
Churches have been burned to the ground,
priceless pictures ruthlessly destroyed;
policemen have been struck in the face in the
official discharge of duty by those Mrs.
Gamp would have been apt to describe with
certain qualifications as “female women.”
In goal for the crime of arson, when whole-
sale destruction of life has been narrowly
averted, the insurgent patriot on behalf of
women’s vote obtains a speedy release
through the ruse of hunger-striking; her re-
turn to freedom is celebrated by a banquet
at one of the most expensive hotels.
	But one day the world rings with an act
which makes the most daring deed of Don
Quixote pale before it. Not the quiet plain
which stretched around revolving wind-mills
that the Don mistook is the scene of adven-
ture, but the crowded spectacle of the royal
Derby race-course. A militant Suffragette
having evaded the barriers has thrown her-
self amongst the horses while they were
galloping by. A jockey, whose horse was
caused to stumble, escaped with a slight
injury; but in a few days the woman dies
of the hurts received. And the militant pro-
pagandists of the Vote advertise a spectac-
ular funeral. The cause has at length a
martyr.
	At the funeral of Don Quixote one would
surely weep; he sought not the applause of a
community, nor desired posthumous fame.
Save for one poor serving-man, the exploits
of his knight-errantry were performed alone.
He would not have hurt a lamb, whose iden-
tity was apparent as such. Alas! poor gen-
tleman, he was subject to illusions. But a 
woman of established sanity, in the hey-dey
of life’s prime, indued with the privilege of
intellectual culture—she had graduated from
a university with the degree of B. A.—had
thrown away her life for an act in which
not reason was justified, nor utility served.
	There is usually perceptible in a waiting
crowd the prevailing sentiment which has
gathered it together. It was a general half-
holiday, the day on which the dead Suffra-
gette’s funeral procession was to pass. The
route had been advertised, and in the bril-
liant sunshine the street-curbs were lined
with multitudes eager to be diverted by a
spectacle, possessed with sensational curi-
osity which had a certain morbid under-
current here and there. At length from the
ranks of onlookers was shouted, “Hark!
here they come!” A band was heard, and
nearer and nearer came the wailful strains of
Chopin’s Marche Funebre. Two glass
hearses appeared, containing wreaths and
other floral tributes. Then came an open
hearse, from which a crape-bound pennon
fluttered heavily; upon that, smothered in
white and purple flowers, was the coffin.
Then advanced a long procession of motley
banners. In the rear they stretched the
length of the street, high above the heads of
the crowd. Many of them rich in texture,
a few were emblematic in design; most,
however, reared a motto or scripture text in
purple letters upon a white background.
Certain of the former represented civic or-
ganizations conducted by men, whose polit-
ical opinions accord with the suffragist
movement. Most dolorous was one repre-
senting a society of women writers, the de-
sign of a rising sun in gold upon a white
background shining dimly through black
chiffon drapery. Of the texts and mottoes
held aloft, the selection or wording consti-
tuted a lurid revelation of the thought con-
fusion and the aberration of sentiment at

[Column 3]
the basis of the British Suffrage movement
as it appears in the prenomenon of “mili-
tancy.” For instance, “Give me Freedom or
give me Death,” seemed calculated to impel
a more casual mind than Pilate’s to turn
over the query, “What is Freedom?”
“Fight on, and God will give the Victory,”
the injunction on another banner, was some-
what provocative of inquiry as to the mili-
tant Suffragists’ religious creed. Certain
direct quotations from scripture had a more
painful effect upon those who hold the ideals
of Christianity in reverence. One of these,
indeed, in relation to that coffin, seemed su-
premely pitiful through the falseness of the
relevancy, “She hath done what she could.”
That the epitaph to describe the culminating
rashness of a once promising career, cut
short at its zenith? Had the act which cost
the woman graduate her life been to stop a
run-away dray, in order to save a little child,
or even a pet dog from injury, the applica-
tion might have served. But then there
would have been no pompous procession; no
banners nor bands for the diverted multi-
tude. What is it Charles Reade, in his
preface to a great book, has said concern-
ing sorrows suffered in silence, noble deeds
done without recognition, burdens bravely
borne every day by those “obscure heroes,
philosophers and martyrs that people earth?”
But a band in the rear was now passing, and
again the strains of Chopin wailed forth in-
finite lament. Well might the mournful music
wail on this bright day for the vigorous life
laid low prematurely. The woman in her
coffin was a martyr, after all; not in a great
and noble sense, but one supremely pitiful—
the martyr of a cause whose inherent blun-
derings have resulted in wild and wilder an-
archy, now at length emblazoning itself with
a vain apotheosis of its first victim unto
death. The pity of the individual tragedy of
a wasted sacrifice almost hallowed the propa-
gandists’ farce. As the music passed out of
hearing onward with the coffin towards the
station, I thought of certain lines learned
long ago by heart, which first conveyed the
idea of woman’s rights in a serious sense to
me. Perhaps the dead Suffragette had
known and felt them, too, until the octopus
of notoriety, with its fatal clutch, marred in
her the sense of the truth and fitness of
things. The lines are uttered by “The
Princess” to her fellow-seekers who would
stake the utmost for the highest:
						“Girls,
Knowledge is now no more a fountain seal’d:
Drink deep, until the habits of the slave,
Gossip and slander, die. Better not be
At all, than not be noble!”
			FLORENCE L. LANCASTER.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


FRUIT CAKE.
		(WITHOUT EGGS.)
	2 cups flour, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 cup
raisins, 1 teaspoon cloves, 1 cup currants,
1 teaspoon soda, 1 cup water, 1/4 teaspoon
salt, 1/2 cup butter, 1 teaspoon lemon ex-
tract, 1 cup sugar.
	Candied peel and nutmeats may be added
if desired.
	Boil all ingredients (except flour, soda
and lemon), together for a few minutes.
When luke-warm, add flour, soda and lem-
on extract.  Mix thoroughly and bake in
slow oven, having oven hotter at first.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50 per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop’s
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH,	-	FEBRUARY, 1914


HEARTFELT FAREWELL.
	The Woman’s Exponent is now nearing
its forty-second birthday, having been first
issued on the first of June, 1872.
	The aim of the paper has always been
to assist those who needed assistance in
any or every line. That it has been the
medium through which many successful
and admired writers of the state have first
appeared in print is a well known fact. The
paper has always stood for high ideals,
both in the home, in the state, and in the
Church; desiring above all things the wel-
fare of the people at large. For women,
it has been a standard bearer, proclaiming
their worth and just claims throughout the
long years of its existence. As a teacher to
the Latter-day Saints, it has performed a
good work and its influence has been also
felt in the missionary field. We feel that
with justice to ourselves we can make this
claim and more if we so choose; and now
that this issue is to be the last, we cherish
in our hearts the thought that those who
have been our faithful patrons, will always
feel that our efforts to give them some good
thoughts, inspiring and comforting words,
have been unselfish and heartfelt. We love
the readers of this paper as a part of our-
selves; we love women and would ever
strive to uplift and help them to attain their
ideals; we love the Latter-day Saints and
we love the Relief Society—that great or-
ganization which this little paper has ever
sought to represent and build up; and may
our Heavenly Father ever have in His
gracious care, the women, whose life ser-
vice is the regeneration of mankind. The
Exponent has striven more than anything
else to be the organ of the Relief Society
and has published from time to time, reports
of ward, stake and general conferences of
that organization, their celebrations and
their resolutions. Its numbers contain
sketches of the lives of Relief Society
workers and notices of their deaths. It has
surely performed a mission in the midst of
Zion for the women of Zion, holding as
it does within its leaves the history of their
work. To lay aside the editorial pen, even
after so many long years, seems a hard
task, but though the pen may be idle, the
mind will ever gratefully remember all the
associations which this little paper has been
instrumental in creating. May you contrib-
utors continue in your chosen calling; may
you readers ever find good and worthy ma-


terial for your leisure moments, and may
God bless you all.


“THOU SHALT NOT BEAR FALSE
			WITNESS.”
	In the decalogue there is, perhaps, no
command more binding than the foregoing
no one more loosely carried or more often
broken. Binding, because throughout the
scriptures it is repeated oft and oft again;
twice in Exodus, once in Deuteronomy,


twice in Matthew, twice in Psalms, five
times in Proverbs, once in Zecharias, three
times in Matthew, once in Mark, twice in
Corinthians, once in Galatians, twice in Pet-
er, and once in John. Surely an offense
which calls forth so much of warning from
the prophets is in itself an heinous deed.
Let those beware who commit it, for the
harm will fall again upon their own heads.
“Who steals my purse steals trash, but he
who filches from me my good name takes
that which not enriches him and makes me
poor indeed.” The thief, the liar, the crim-
inal can be hunted out and brought to just
punishment; but for the smooth bearer of
false witness who achieves his own ag-
grandizment, by his neighbor’s injury, who
can tell the penalty that awaits! Woe to
him! for to his inner conscience some day
will come back the sorrow and heart ache he
has caused. The law of compensation is a
natural law, and divine; and the piercing
thorns will return and prick the conscience
of the falsifier—will encircle his brow until
in agony, he cries for that mercy which he
did not show, and which he has small reason
to expect.—A. W. C.


EARLY LITERARY WOMEN OF UTAH.
	The hardships of pioneer life are not gen-
erally very conducive to the cultivation of
the finer qualities of the mind and soul. The
making of new homes and conquering desert
wastes naturally calls forth all one’s energy,
and the tired work-worn body would nat-
urally require all the faculties of the mind
to assist in providing life’s necessities. For
many years after the settlement of these val-
leys, there was a dearth of literary work,
and it is not hard to find the names of those
few who found solace and comfort in the
use of the pen. The pioneers of Utah are a
very different type of people, to those who
generally seek new homes in unclaimed ter-
ritory. They were, as is well known, a peo-
ple of strong religious sentiment and innate
refinement. There were many men and
women among them of high intellectual at-
tainment. The pioneers brought with them
across the plains a printing press, and within
three years after their advent into the desert,
established a newspaper—The Deseret News
—and founded a university. In the early
columns of this paper and the Millennial
Star, printed in Liverpool, England, may be
found an occasional poem or article by Eliza
R. Snow, Emmeline B. Wells, Hannah T. 
King, and Sarah E. Carmichael. There was
established as early as 1854, a literary so-
ciety known as the Philosophical Society, “a
gathering for social, literary, and general
cultivation of mind and manners.” This so-
ciety was founded by Lorenzo Snow and the
meetings were held in his home, a handsome
residence for those days on the corner of
South Temple and Third East streets, known
to most of this generation, as the Clawson
residence.
	Poems and prose articles prepared for this
society often found their way to the columns
of The Deseret News, and thus was given an
incentive for the cultivation of literary tal-
ent. 
	Eliza R. Snow ranks as our first literary
woman. We know that as a girl she was
the author of a prize story published in
Gody’s Ladies Magazine, and was also re-
quested by a committee to write a requiem


[Column 1]
on the death of John Adams and Thomas
Jefferson, which occurred on the same day—
July 4, 1826—the nation’s birthday. These
with some other literary efforts, marked
Eliza R. Snow’s young womanhood and the
talent for writing and the taste for literary
work was always predominant with her,
though she is known as an expert needle
woman, a neat and thrifty housekeeper, a
teacher and prophetess among her people.
She found her greatest delight in quiet soli-
tude, penning songs for the Saints to sing,
or writing treatises containing words of ad-
monition and encouragement. As a historian
she is also known, having published those
very interesting books, “The Palestine Tour-
sts” and “The Life of Lorenzo Snow,” her
brother. Eliza R. Snow’s poetry is pub-
lished in two volumes and varies in its na-
ture. Her style is doctrinal and lofty rather
than musical and tender. Her great hymn
called “The Invocation,” better known, how-
ever, as “Oh my Father,” would immortal-
ize her name among the Latter-day Saints,
had she written nothing else, but as a song,
“Awake my slumbering minstrel,” is prob-
ably more more popular and musical. Eliza R.
Snow has contributed twenty hymns to the
Latter-day Saint hymn book, most of them
frequently sung in the congregations of the
Saints. Her prose writings, with the ex-
ception of the two books mentioned, are not
in collected form, but most of them are in
the different numbers of the WOMAN’S EX-
PONENT, and contain many interesting and
instructive paragraphs. Eliza R. Snow was
born in 1804, in Massachusetts, and her
nature, so full of integrity and spirituality,
was doubtless an heritage from her revolu-
tionary ancestry. In her childhood, her
father moved his family to Ohio and it was
there she and her father’s family accepted
the Gospel. She was a true Saint, as her
long life of vigorous spiritual teaching
proves and bears out her own words when
she so beautifully writes:
“And am determined now to be a Saint,
And numbered with the tried and faithful ones,
Whose race is measured with their life, whose joy
Is everlasting and whose happiness
Is God’s approval. And to whom ’tis more
Than meat and drink to do his righteousness.”
	Perhaps the fire of poetic genius has
burned in no woman’s soul more freely than
in the soul of Sarah E. Carmichael. Miss
Carmichael came to Utah with her parents
when quite a child. She was born in New
York. Even as a school girl she wrote
beautiful verses. In fact, her most beau-
tiful poems were written in her young days.
	A little volume of her writings was col-
lected and published by some of her friends
for private distribution. It is now very
rarely seen and is held most precious by
those fortunate enough to own one.
	Her poem, “The Stolen Sunbeam,” which
is the story of the discovery of gold, was
selected by William Cullen Bryant for his
collection of American poetry, thus giving
her a wider field of readers than most of our
literary women attained in early days. Her
beautiful poem, “Dead Roses,” is most ten-
der and touching, and breathes in its last
lines this hopeful thought:
“I have dreamed of a shore to the soundless
		Death River,
	Where love proves its moral of Never in Vain;
Where ’tis not the cross, but the crown of the
		giver,
	And the dead roses gather their incense again.”

[Column 2]
One poem of Miss Carmichael’s which
was not included in the volume, found its
place some years later in the WOMAN’S EX-
PONENT.” It was inscribed to President
Brigham Young and was written in the
Bowery, August 8, 1857. In her girlhood
she was a great admirer of the President
and his leadership, as were all the people,
but later she did not associate herself with
the Saints and found a circle of friends out-
side the faith. She married Dr. William-
son, a successful practicing physician, and
not long after her marriage she was seized
with a mental malady. Thus the promise
of her youth for a brillant career in the
literary world was not fulfilled. The poem,
“Dead Roses,” was also not in the collection
but was printed in a daily paper at the time
of her death.
	Emmeline B. Wells may well be classed
among our early literary women, having
written a great many stories and poems
which she styles fragments, in her early days,
even when a little girl. Her first published
poem, however, is called “Friendship,” and
was printed in the Millennial Star in 1844.
About 1853 she wrote an ode to Deseret in
which the wind on the desert is beautifully
described. Neither of these early poems, as
well as many later ones, are in her book
called “Musings from Memory,” the only
collection so far of her writings.
	In the hymn book we have four of her
songs, the best known of them, “Our Moun-
tain Home So Dear.” Her poetic nature is
shown in almost all her writings, whether
prose or poetry, but probably her greatest
poetic achievement is one of her last poems
written after she had attained the age of
84 years, for the dedication of the Maeser
Memorial, at Provo, May 30, 1912. When
one considers the long life work and the
advanced age of the author, to have written
so beautiful a poem, of such length, is cer-
tainly quite wonderful. The late A. C. Nel-
son, immediately after hearing it read, con-
gratulated the author and said he consid-
ered it a perfect epic, as did also Professors
Brimhall, Cummings, and others. The
poem is called an Ode. It contains nineteen
verses. The style is lofty, reminiscent and
prophetic, as these few lines will testify.
“Could we but catch the echoes of the past
	Reverberating through these flinty moun-
		tain walls,
As in our fancy vividly they’re singing,
What shadows o’er us would these memories
		cast,
What scenes of pleasure could the heart re-
		call—
Now, glad, now minor chords of music sing-
		ing.
“Some who are old today, and once were
		young,
Through patient years have hoped the day
		would come
When Zion’s youth with flag unfurled
Might fling the challenge to the world,
That here, in these sequestered vales
The highest, purest thought prevails
When lo, before our very eyes,
Today our dream we realize.
	Mrs. Wells’ literary work has been con-
fined almost altogether to the columns of
the WOMAN’S EXPONENT, the periodical
which she has edited and published for the
past forty years, and within its pages are
stories, editorials, histories, treatises, and
verses, all showing the versatility of the
author. Mrs. Wells is an adept in the art
of letter writing, as hundreds of men and

[Column 3]
women throughout the land can testify,
an art almost obsolete in this day of type-
writers, telephones, telegrams and wireless.
Born in New England and reared by a
puritanic mother, she also is of that strong
type of womanhood which faces all oppres-
sion for a cause she feels to be just, and
deems no sacrifice too great in the cause of
righteousness. Her artistic, sensitive, and
romantic temperament, has made life’s
struggle doubly hard, but she has valiantly
fought the battle, and, the Lord be praised,
is with us yet to give us words of encour-
agement and love. Mrs. Hannah T. King
contributed largely to Utah literature in
some fine prose writings. She also read
some poetic effusions before the Polysoph-
ical Society. She published two small books
in paper covers, which are much treasured
by the few who possess them. One is a
collection of verses called “Songs of the
Heart,” and the other is a book of essays
called “Women of the Scriptures.”
	Mrs. King was an English lady of fine
education and accomplishments. She was
most dignified in manner, and took quick
offense at any remark or act in her pres-
ence which in any degree flavored of rude-
ness or ill-manners. Her later writings
were also confined to the columns of the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT, to which little paper
she was a frequent contributor. Mrs. King
was born in Cambridge, England, the home
of the great university, and she was reared
among its classic shades and bowers. In
her youth she published two books, one for
girls and one for boys, called “The Toilet”
and “The Era” respectively. She was also
a fine letter writer, and cherished among
her many letters from noted people, one
from the great author, Victor Hugo.
	Hannah Cornaby is another gifted Eng-
lish woman who joined the Latter-day
Saints in her early girlhood. She was born
in Rose Hall, an ancient mansion on the
banks of the river Waverly, in Suffolk,
England, and was reared in the Episcopal
church. In her one published book, called
“Autobiography and Poems of Hannah
Cornaby,” she narrates in beautiful style her
whole life, which is more interesting than
fiction, for it abounds in inspiration and
faith. Mrs. Cornaby was a member and
contributed to the Polysophical Society, and
at one time a regular contributor to the
EXPONENT. She was a modest, retiring
woman, and sweet to look upon. The
writer shall never forget a summer morn-
ing spent with Mrs. Cornaby in her wild
and picturesque garden in the town of
Spanish Fork. Here, in this garden, were
written many of Mrs. Cornaby’s poems, and
she loved it very dearly. She was a dear
sweet woman, and the following verse from
her pen is like her.
	“I never wished for wealth or fame
		For I have understood
	How poor and valueless are these
		Compared with being good.”
	Emily Hill Woodmansee, still another of
our English women who has given many
splendid thoughts clothed in poetic phrase
to the people, found place for her ex-
pressive thoughts through the WOMAN’S
EXPONENT and Deseret News. She has
written twenty of our finest hymns, and
her songs are sung in many lands. Her
themes are mostly religious, and her style
lofty. Whenever she was in doubt or fear,
sufficiently to resort to divine guidance, she


[Column 1]
seemed to receive an answer to her petition
in verse, which, on the inspiration of the
moment she would indite. One of her last
hymns is the one called “The Day of Re-
demption.” This hymn was written during
those dark days in Utah known as the “un-
derground days.” Just before going away
from the midst of the people, our honored
and revered president, John Taylor, preach-
ed a very powerful sermon in the Taber-
nacle, I believe it was his last public ser-
mon to the people, and after counseling the
Saints, he said to them, words to this effect:
“No matter what happens, remember The
Lord God Omnipotent reigneth.” These are
the words Mrs. Woodmansee took for her
theme, and each verse of the hymn ends
with that phrase—The Lord God Omnipo-
tent reigneth.”
	Mrs. Woodmansee’s life was no bed of 
roses. She had many struggles and hard-
ships early and late, though for a time she
was quite prosperous in business, and
seemed to be acquiring more ease for her
later years. Financial difficulties appeared
again, still she was always hopeful, cheer-
ful and industrious. Mrs. Woodmansee
was one of those undaunted spirits which
feared nothing in the cause of truth—prov-
ing this statement beyond a doubt when I
tell you she was one of that memorable
company who pulled or pushed a handcart
from Iowa to Utah, walking every step for
1,000 miles.
	Louisa Lulu Greene Richards, beloved
among the people for her children’s stories
and poems, was the first editor of the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT, then a young woman
just beginning her literary work. Mrs.
Richards has written a great deal for the
public, and published one volume of poems
called “Branches that Hang Over the Wall,”
surely a most poetic name. She conducted
for many years the department for little
folks in the Juvenile Instructor, and has
been a frequent contributor to the Children’s
Friend, these two periodicals being the or-
gans of the L. D. S. Sunday Schools and
Primary Association. She has also con-
tributed to the hymn book and to the Sun-
day School Song Book. The beautiful hymn
called “One Hundred Years” was the prize 
hymn written for the one hundredth anni-
versary of the birth of the Prophet Joseph
Smith. The Sunday School Union offered
three prizes for the three best poems to be
set to music, the theme to be connected
with the Prophet Joseph, and Mrs. Richards
won all three of the prizes.
	Augusta Joyce Crocheron is another of
our early women writers who has contrib-
uted both of poetry and prose, and pub-
lished one very valuable little book of bi-
ographies called “Representative Women of
Deseret.” Her poetry is very touching and
tender. Her life has been somewhat seared
with sorrow and misfortune, but she always
has a hopeful and cheerful word for her
friends. She was one of that memorable
company who reached Utah by coming all
the way from Boston to San Bernardino in
the ship Brooklyn, around Cape Horn, and
was with the members of the Battalion in
California at the time of the discovery of
gold.
	Miss Sarah E. Russell has written for
many years, both prose and poetry, under
the nom de plume of Hope. She was surely
one of Utah’s gifted daughters, and her 
work is of a high order. That she died an 
exile, driven from her home in Mexico dur-

[Column 2]
ing the present war, seems to be a tragic
fate for one so full of hope and faith.
	Helen Mar Whitney, mother of our gifted
poet and historian, Orson F. Whitney, pos-
sessed marked literary ability, and pub-
lished many strong articles and letters,
mostly on doctrinal subjects.
	Mary J. Tanner, Martha J. Coray and Lu-
cinda Lee Dalton have all written some fine
essays and poems, thus contributing to the
field of literature.
	Another writer of beautiful verse is Miss
Miller, known to the public as “Ruby La-
mont,” never having consented to the use of
her own name.
	Lydia D. Alder, Ellis R. Shipp, and
Lillie T. Freeze have all long been engaging
in literary work, and are still among the
writers. Mrs. Alder has published a book,
the History of the Holy Land, and Mrs.
Shipp has issued an artistic volume of
poetry called “Life Lines.”
	Mrs. Susa Young Gates began her lit-
erary work quite early, and still continues.
She was the founder of the magazine, the
Young Woman’s Journal, and for many
years its editor. Her work consists largely
of short stories. In the issue of her inter-
esting book, “John Stevens’ Courtship,” she
claims the distinction of having written and
published the first work of fiction by a Utah
woman.
	Mrs. Mary A. Freeze wrote some inter-
esting articles and poetry, and we must not
forget our sweet writer, Ruth May Fox,
whose poetry is most tender and musical.
	Among the later writers whose work is
widely recognized, Mrs. Annie Pike Green-
wood claims a prominent place. Her poems
having been published in The Century and
other magazines. Utah very proudly claims
her. Also Miss Josephine Spencer, whose
stories and poems have found a place in
The Youth’s Companion and St. Nicholas
magazine. Miss Spencer’s best work has
been probably somewhat retarded by the
constant grind of newspaper work.
	There are a host of women writers now
of splendid literary ability whose names
deserve mention in this article, though it
is called “Early Women Writers,” because
they are contributing to the field of home
literary work and giving encouragement to
others as well as interesting many thousands
of readers—Mrs. Kelsey who has won the
prize poem in the Christmas News more
than once, as has also Mrs. Bertha Ander-
son Kleinmann who published a beautiful
Indian story in verse. May Booth Talmage,
Ann M. Cannon and Mary Connelly, who
have edited the Young Woman’s Journal
and contributed largely to the contents of
that little magazine; Edith E. Read, Maud
Baggarley, Grace Ingles Frost, Kate
Thomas, Alice M. Horne, Christine D.
Young, Mrs. Greenhalgh, Ada Patterson,
Mrs. Coray and doubtless many others
whose names I do not now recall.
	Many times during this narrative, men-
tion has been made of the little periodical the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT, which in this issue
closes its career. The paper has been the
medium through which many of the Utah
writers first came to public attention, both
men and women, and has formed in its ser-
vice the medium through which nearly all
those mentioned in this article have ex-
pressed their best thoughts.
		ANNIE WELLS CANNON.


PRESIDENT PENROSE.
	On the 4th of February, President Charles
W. Penrose attained the eighty-second mile
stone in his life—a life so full of service that
time has made little if any mark on his geni-
al countenance nor dimmed his youthful
spirit. Industry and faith have seemed to be
his investements and they have produced
great dividends, the love and admiration of
thousands of friends; and who could ask for
greater wealth! On Wednesday evening,
the night of President Penrose’s birthday,
there gathered in the large assembly room
of the Bishop’s building about five hundred
of his friends to pay him homage. The en-
tertainment was under the direction of the
Genealogical Society and was a most pleas-
ing affair. The program was rendered by
members of President Penrose’s family who
showed marked talent along literary and
musical lines. All the songs and poems
were the composition of the guest of honor.
A most interesting feature was a biograph-
cal sketch prepared and read by Mrs. Jessie
Penrose Jones, the oldest daughter, in which
all the important events in President Pen-
rose’s life were mentioned—the fact being
brought forth that he read the scriptures
at the age of four and has been a student of
sacred history ever since.
	The different numbers on the program
were announced by E. C. Penrose, one of
the sons, who told when and in under what
circumstances the different hymns were
written, thus giving some valuable histori-
cal information.
	President Joseph F. Smith and President
Anthon H. Lund each made affectionate and
felicitous remarks, after which the guest
of the occasion expressed his appreication
and spoke in his usual happy manner. Re-
freshments were served by the ladies of the
Genealogical Society and an informal re-
ception followed the program.
	President Penrose was showered with
flowers and congratulations from his numer-
ous friends. The occasion was in every re-
spect pleasing, and the Exponent joins with
his many friends in kindest wishes for Presi-
dent Penrose and, in the hope that his useful
life may be continued for many, many years.


NOTICE!
	The publication of the WOMAN’S EX-
PONENT ceases with this issue. Any one
having any claim against or being indebted
to the paper, will kindly settle the matter as
soon as possible; either by calling on Mrs.
Emmeline B. Wells at room 28 Bishop’s
Building, or by writing her at that address
or to Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon, 1320 South
9th West Street, Salt Lake City.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SOWING AND REAPING.
Sow with a generous hand;
	Pause not for toil or pain;
Weary not through the heart of summer,
	Weary not through the cold spring rain;
But wait till the Autumn comes
	For the sheaves of golden grain.

Scatter the seed, and fear not,
	A table will be spread;
What matter if you are too weary
	To eat your hard-earned bread!
Sow while the earth is broken,
	For the hungry must be fed.

Sow;—while the seeds are lying
	In the warm earth’s brown deep,
And your warm tears fall upon it,—
	They will stir in their quiet sleep;
And the green blades arise the quicker,
	Perchance for the tears you weep.

Then sow;—for the hours are fleeting,
	And the seed must fall today;
And care not what hands shall reap it,
	Or if you shall have passed away
Before the waving corn fields
	Shall gladden the sunny day.

Sow; and look onward, upward,
	Where the starry light appears,—
Where in spite of the coward’s doubting,
	Or your own heart’s trembling fears,
You shall reap in joy the harvest
	You have sown today in tears.
			ADELAIDE A. PROCTOR.


CAPITAL CITIES IN COLONIAL DAYS.
	In the first place there was really not
one single city that could properly be called
the capital, though the one that comes near-
est claiming that distinction is Philadelphia,
and she had to divide the honor with New
York. Surely we can not speak of the
colonial cities without saying something of
Boston. For, as Governor Hutchinson
said, in 1773: “For many years past the
town of Boston has been used to interest
itself in every affair of moment which con-
cerned the Province in general.” Certainly
Boston sought to do all that it could to give
form to the action of the colonists in other
parts not only of Massachusetts but of all
America. The story of the city of Boston
can not be told, therefore, without reference
to several events that were going on in other
parts of the land. The story of Boston calls
us to a study of our independence, to a con-
templation, first, of a vigorous struggle by
strong men and women for a century and a
half, against a powerful monarchy; and next
to an examination of the fruits of that con-
flict in the development of a typical Amer-
ican civilization. Up to the year 1629 or
1630, England had done but little in the
way of settling the new lands in the west,
though she made great claims upon Amer-
ca, through the discoveries of Cabot. There
had, it is true, been considerable exploration
under Elizabeth, but it was not until the
reign of James I that anything creditable
and enduring was actually accomplished.
	The 26th day of August, 1629, is an im-
portant date in the history of Boston. On
that day the decision was taken that deter-
mined the settlement of the town. Had it
not been for a conclusion then reached by
a company of discreet gentlemen who met
at Cambridge, England, the promontory
called Shawmut by the Indians, might have
been peopled by quite a different class of
settlers from those who made it their first
home in America. In speaking of these first
settlers of Massachusetts, James Russell
Lowell said:
	“There never was a colony, save this, that
went forth, not to seek gold, but God.” And


[Column 1]
Josiah Quincy said: “Civil independence was
as truly their object as religious liberty.”
	In the year 1630 Puritan colonists came
from England under the leadership of
Thomas Dudley and John Winthrop, and
founded the town of Boston. The new-
comers first called it Trimount, from the
three peaks which Beacon Hill originally
showed. The name was afterward changed
to Boston for old Boston in England, in
honor of Winthrop’s leaders, who came
from that place. For nearly two centuries
Boston remained under the simple form of
a town government by all the citizens as-
sembled in “town meeting.” The city char-
ter was not granted until 1832. It is impos-
sible to give a very general description of 
the city, but the original site, with its unin-
viting natural features and what the people 
made of it, is a fairly good indication of
their courage, energy and ability. Boston
was built on a pear-shaped peninsula in-
dented by coves and bordered by salt
marshes. Its surface was rocky, abrupt and
irregular, and such it was until after the
Revolution. The streets were narrow and
crooked, many of them merely lanes and
alleys. The buildings scattered and de-
tached, only four being of stone, in 1776.
Of these, Kings chapel yet remains. Com-
paratively few were of brick, the latter in-
cluding Fanuel Hall, the town (now called
old State house), Christ’s Church and the
Old South Meeting House—still treasured
land-marks.
	At the time of the Revolution Boston was
the richest and most powerful and populous
city in the colonies. Yet it contained only
2,000 buildings and less than 20,000 inhab-
tants. In and near this old town were en-
acted the first stirring scenes in our war for
independence. From here the British went
out to meet the ‘embattled farmers of Lex-
ington and Concord, and fought the battle
of Bunker Hill, followed by the seige of
Boston, and the evacuation forced by Wash-
ington, March 17, 1776.
	From its foundation, the tone of society
in Boston was serious, owing to the Puritan
influence. She was inclined to regard her
rival cities as frivolous in their pursuits,
owing to her advantages. Situated upon so
large and excellent a harbor, Boston has al-
ways been a great commercial and industrial
city. The first bank in America, historians
say, was established in Boston, in 1686. Ed-
ucationally, she has always taken first rank.
In colonial days, to which we must confine
ourselves at this time, certainly no other
city wielded a more powerful influence in
 the shaping of our young nation’s destiny,
than did the chief city of the old Bay State.
	New York. The original Indian name
of New York City was Manhattan. The
first European visitor was Gioiasini Vera-
zani, who entered New York Bay in 1525,
but he made no landing. The real discov-
erer and explorer of those regions was
Heindrich Hudson, a mariner employed by
a Dutch trading company. He explored
New York Bay and the great river which
bears his name, in 1609, in his little ship, the
Half Moon. Ten years later Adrian Block
visited Manhattan, made a landing and es-
tablished a trading station. In 1614, States
General of Holland chartered the United
New Netherland Company to engage in
trade at Manhattan, and a fort and trad- 
ing house were built on the southern point
of the island, and called Fort Amsterdam.
A permanent village settlement was effected

[Column 2]
in 1623 under the name of New Amster-
dam. The first white male child born, on
the island was Jean Vigne, in 1614. The
first white girl, Sarah Rapalje, was born in
1625. Peter Minnit, the first important gov-
ernor of the new colony arrived in 1626,
and from that time the growth of the town
was rapid. In 1652, New Amsterdam was
incorporated as a city, and the next year
was inclosed at the north by a wall of earth
and timber 2340 feet long, on the present site
of Wall Street.
	We know that England, by right of dis-
covery, claimed this territory, as well as that
to the north and south of it, so she did not
encourage any claims of those who had set-
tled upon these lands unless by her own
grants. On March 12, 1664, this whole col-
ony of New Amsterdam was granted, by
Charles IV, then king of England, to his
brother, the Duke of York, and in August of
that year was forcibly seized by a British
fleet. The place was then named New York
in honor of its new owner. The Dutch were
not disposed to submit tamely and without a
struggel to this seizure of what they
deemed their rightful possessions, and in
1673, the Dutch seized it again and renamed
it New Orange, but a year later it was re-
stored to the English—and for good, this
time. An organized government and code
of laws were established in 1691, and on
April 9th of that year the first colonial as-
sembly met in the city. In 1825 the first
newspaper, the New York Gazette, was
founded; in 1730 a fortnightly stage ser-
vice to Philadelphia was established; in 1752
the Royal Exchange was opened at the foot
of Broad Street; in 1754, Kings (now Co-
lumbia) College was chartered and in 1768
the chamber of commerce was organized.
Nowhere is the truth more plain than that
the story of a community is told in the
lives of its inhabitants. The story of Bos-
ton, for instance, deals with the doings of
a community of very earnest men who, for
a century and a half, had no considerable
interests except those connected with poli-
tics and religion. This influence was notice-
able in every phase of life in Massachusetts.
In New York it was quite different. The
people were as diversified in temperament,
interests, religion and principle as they were
united in Boston. The difference is as
marked from the beginning of the history
of the two cities. Social activity, club life
and every phase of commercialism is to be
seen from the beginning in New York. 
There was a peculiarly aristocratic structure
in New York society, which gave many of
its most brilliant names to our nation’s his-
tory, like the Livingstons, Chintons, Schuy-
lers, and many others. There was also more
of the lower strains of humanity in the city
than others of colonial days, and the effect
was most pronounced. There were Dutch
Reformed and Huguenot congregations,
Presbyterians, Catholics, and a large follow-
ing of Episcopalians, each found their own
proper place in New York. The spirit of
resistance to British rule made its appear-
ance in New York at an early date. The
Stamp Act congress was organized in 1865;
so was the league known as the Sons of
Liberty. The Stamp Act was publicly
burned, cargoes of taxed tea were thrown
over-board, a liberty pole was erected on
the common, near the City Hall Park, and
rigorous public demonstrations were made
against the British garrison. One of the
earliest conflicts of the war occurred in John

[Column 3]
Street, between Sons of Liberty and British
troops, on the same day the equestrian statue
of George III, on Bowling Green, was
pulled down and transformed into bullets
for the use of the American army. In the
spring of 1776 the bulk of the patriot army
was massed in New York, and on July 8th
the Declaration of Independence was pub-
licly proclaimed and read to the troops. Af-
ter the battle of Long Island the American
troops were gradually withdrawn, and
passed into the hands of the British, who
held it under rigid military rule until No-
vember 25, 1783, when the last of their
garrison evacuated the city, and the Amer-
can troops took possession. A few weeks
later Washington took farewell of his offi-
cers at Francis Tavern, at the corner of
Broad and Pearl Streets. From 1790 New
York has ranked as the most populous city
in the United States. Of what she is today
we cannot speak, except to say that now, as
from the beginning, the beauty, in fact every
phase of the city’s life, is as varied as the
people themselves. After the birth of the
Union, the selection of a capital was not
easily settled. The north, the south, and the
middle states wanted it. The site at Wash-
ington was selected as a courtesy to the
south. New York, however, was chosen as
the first capital of the young republic. In
January, 1785 (still in the colonial period,
be it remembered), Congress removed from
Philadelphia to New York and met in Fed-
eral Hall, at the corner of Wall and Nassau
Streets, now the site of the United States
sub-treasury. In the same building Wash-
ington was inaugurated as president on
April 30, 1789, and there the first Congress
under the Constitution held its first meet-
ings. New York remained the first capital
for five years, after which Philadelphia
claimed the honor again, and held it until
the permanent removal to Washington.
	Philadelphia. If we must decide upon
any one single city where most interest cen-
tralized during the latter colonial days and
those of the revolution. I think we would
unhesitatingly name “the city of brotherly
love, Philadelphia. In 1636 Queen Chris-
tiana of Sweden, sent a boat of Swedish
colonists to the village of Wiceaco, now a
part of the main city, an Indian town which
also once stood within the present city limits.
In 1677 the Swedes erected a log church
which also served as a fort. In 1700 this
was torn down, and a brick structure erect-
ed on the site known as the old Swedish
Church, which still stands in the southern
part of the city on the banks of the Dela-
ware.
	The Dutch vessel Onrust, with Captain
Hendrickson commanding, explored the
Delaware, in 1623, and in 1651 the Dutch
built Fort Casinni, which was captured by
the Swedes in 1654, retaken by the Dutch
the same year, captured by the English in
1664, surrendered to the Dutch again in
1673, and finally given over to the English
by the treaty of 1674. William Penn’s dep-
uty governor and cousin, Captain William
Markham, arrived at Philadelphia in Oc-
tober, 1681, and Penn’s commissioners in
the early summer of 1682. William Penn
himself, with a large company of Friends,
or Quakers, reached Newcastle on the Del-
aware on October 27, 1682. The City of
Philadelphia had been named, surveyed,
plotted and the lots occupied by some set-
tlers in July, 1682. The Dutch and Ger-
man pioneers who had been invited by Penn


[Column 1]
to remove to Pennsylvania, arrived at
Philadelphia October 6, 1683, and settled
Germantown, now a ward of the city. This
emigration is notable because four of the
emigrants, Gerhard Hendricks, Dirk Op-
dere Graeff, Francis Daniel Pastorins and
Abraham Opden Graep, on April 18, 1688,
sent to the Friends meeting the first public
protest ever made in America against the
holding of slaves; also, because, in 1690,
the first paper mill in America was erected
by William Rittinghuysen, a Dutch emi-
grant. Here was made the paper used by
William Bradford, the earliest printer in
the middle colonies, and because Sarver, the
governor printer of Germantown, printed in
German three quarto editions of the Bible
before an edition in English had been print-
ed in America. Religious and civil liberty
were encouraged by William Penn’s gov-
ernment, but the leaders of society in Phil-
adelphia were not clergymen, as in Massa-
chusetts, but lawyers, like John Dickenson,
and they had great respect for the estab-
lished laws, and thought that all legal meth-
ods for settling difficulties should be ex-
hausted before force was resorted to. This
made them temperate and wise in council
and debate, and gave to their capital city
the reputation for moderation which she
has always held.
	Opposition to the Stamp Act took form in
1765, the act of parliament imposing duties
upon paper and tea was resisted in 1768,
and when, in 1773 the news reached Phila-
delphia that the tea ships were on their
way, the people met in the state house on
October 17 and adopted resolutions which
were unanimously re-adopted by the Boston
meeting on November 5. The tea ship
Polly, commanded by Captain Ayers, from
London, anchored near Philadelphia two
days after Christmas, but was not allowed
to discharge her cargo.
	Carpenter’s Hall was the meeting place of
the first Continental Congress, of 1774, and
the state house that of the second Congress,
which met May 2, 1776, agreed on the reso-
lution declaring that the United Colonies
“are and of right ought to be free and inde-
pendent states.” On July 8, the Declara-
tion of Independence was first publicly read
by John Nixon from the platform of the
observatory which then stood in the square
back of the hall. From the beginning of
the war, Philadelphia was the center of
stirring events. Trenton, Brandywine and
Valley Forge are all within an hour’s ride
from that city. Lord Howe entered Phil-
adelphia September 26, 1777, and Con-
gress fled to New York. The British with-
drew in June, 1778, and Congress then
again returned. When the American army
took possession of the city, Benedict Arnold
was placed in command, and you know the
tragic outcome of his vanity and extrava-
gances. As already stated, in 1785 Con-
gress met in New York, but in May, 1787,
the convention which formed the Constitu-
tion of the United States met in Philadel-
phia, in the state house. Under the federal
Constitution, Philadelphia was the capital
of the United States from 1790 to 1800,
and in the building, still standing at the
southeast corner of Sixth and Chestnut
streets, George Washington was inaugu-
rated as President for a second term, and
John Adams and Thomas Jefferson as
President and Vice President. America
has had a most wonderful growth, and
beautiful cities cover the land, but the natal

[Column 2]
city of the Declaration of Independence and
the Constitution of the United States will
always hold a first place in the hearts of
loyal Americans. But aside from the pa-
triotic side, Philadelphia ranks among the
foremost cities in every line of progressive
development, socially and educationally,
she has had few rivals. In colonial days
she was unquestionably the leader in scien-
tific and social culture. John Adams wrote
his wife that he was amazed to find so much
depth and breadth of knowledge beneath
what to the New Englander seemed extrav-
agance and frivolity in social life.
	As one of Philadelphia’s daughters
wrote of her city: “She is content to grow
symmetrically and if grace and strength
keep pace,with her increasing bulk, she is
content to face the future.” It can hold
closely to the past, recollecting its lessons,
valuing its traditions, respecting its mem-
ory, and loving in her cold, steadfast
passion, the living links which connect her
with her honorable history and unite her
past in the great story of the nation.
	(Read at the meeting of the Daughters
of the Revolution, Jan. 16, 1914.
			JULIA P. M. FARNSWORTH.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	MADAME MOUNTFORD.
	Madame Lydia Mary Mamreoff von
Finkelstein Mountford has a family tree
that makes the oldest Occidental genealogy
look about as new and shiny as a piece of
plated ware. She talks about her ancestor,
Melchizedek, as any American woman
would speak of one of the Pilgrim Fathers.
Madame Mountford was born in Palestine.
She speaks with ease at a remarkable rate
of speed Arabic, Russian, English, French
and German. She spent her happiest hours
in childhood playing under the trees on the
Mount of Olives or strolling with her father
through the quiet walks of the Garden of
Gethsemane. As a girl of eighteen she was
baptized in the Episcopal Church of Jeru-
salem.
	“We Orientals,” says Madame Mount-
ford, “think in centuries, in a way that is
difficult for the Occidental mind to follow.
trace my genealogy back to the line of
Melchizedek and to Davidic line on my
mother’s side. On my father’s side of the
house I go back to the Mamres and the
house of Ephraim. Mamre was a confed- 
erate of Abraham, and allowed him to pitch
his tents under his oaks and to ‘dwell in the
plains of Mamre,’ as you have read in
Genesis. When the Mamres became asso-
ciated with Russia through intermarriage
the affix ‘off,’ meaning ‘of,’ was added,
the name Mamre becoming Mamreoff. Their
crest remained the Palestine oak tree of the
plains of Mamre.
	“Maybe you would like to see the ring of
Melchizedek,” continued Madame Mount-
ford, raising her hand to the light so that
an enormous heart-shaped ruby reflected
the rays of the sun. “This ring has been in

[Column 2]
the Mamreoff family for centuries and cen-
turies. Here on my couch lies a garment
woven before America was a nation,” and
she lifted for inspection a superb garment
woven of thread of gold.
	Madame Mountford is at present install-
ing at the American University of Washing-
ton what is said to be one of the most com-
plete and remarkable Biblical museums in
the world. The collection consists of hun-
dreds of magnificent handwoven garments,
many of which have been handed down the
centuries in Palestine, and all of which
are authentic representations of the mode of
dress of Biblical days.
	“In my collection,” madame told me,
“there are also rare scrolls, ancient precious
stones and coins, and much else of value
taken from the very spots in which the most
stirring scenes of Biblical drama were en-
acted. The collection, which is at present
being catalogued, is the work of a lifetime
on my part, and is valued at thousands of
dollars. I did not present it to your na-
tional museum, because there it would have
lost effectiveness by being merely one of .
many great collections. At the American
University it will stand out conspicuously.
I wanted to place it in America, and in
Washington. I hope it may become a mat-
ter of national interest to this great coun-
try.”
	Madame Mountford’s eldest brother,
Peter, was the friend and private secre-
tary of the late William H. Seward, who
first met him when on a visit to Jerusalem,
and who urged him to come to America. Her
sister also came to this country and for some 
years held the chair of languages and Eng-
lish literature at Binghampton College, New
York.
	Madame Mountford is a member of the
congressional committee appointed by the
National Woman Suffrage Association to
plead with Congress for a suffrage amend-
ment to the Constitution. She has told the
story of life and customs handed down in
Palestine from Biblical days to the present
time to tens of thousands of people in Amer-
ca, England, Australia and India.—
Selene A. Harmon, from the Seattle Times.


THIRTY-FOURTH
ANNUAL ANNOUNCEMENT
			OF
	Dr. Ellis R. Shipp’s
	SCHOOL OF NURSING
	AND OBSTETRICS
	Beginning October 6, 1913.
	Hours 9 to 12 a.m.
For full particulars communicate with
	ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D.,
713 Second Avenue, Salt Lake City, Utah

R. K. THOMAS CO.,		67-69 MAIN STREET,
						SALT LAKE CITY.
	The most becoming Styles in Ladies’
	Suits, Coats, Dresses, Skirts, and 
	Waists at Popular Prices....
THE STORE WHERE YOU CAN FEEL AT HOME

