Vol. 41. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY, 1913 No. 7.


CONTENTS.
A Sketch (Harriet Amelia Snow)					49
An Audience with the Pope				G. B. W. 51
Book Review									51
Relief Society Reports--
	Bear River Stake							55
	St. Joseph Stake							56
Editorial--
	Mother's Day in May Time					52
	Editoral Note								52
	General Relief Society Conference... 52
The Child—Born and Unborn						53
Society of the Utah Hand-Cart Pioneer.
	and Daughters								54
In Memoriam									56
Poetry--
	The Lovers and the Bobolink
					Augusta Joyce Crocheron	49
	Am I Queen in My Home?
							Vincy R. Barker	49
To a Dear Young Girl Emmie
					Augusta Joyce Croacheron 	51
	"Thy Will Be Done"	           Lydia D. Alder 	56


THE LOVERS AND THE BOBOLINK.
Idly adown the green lane's shade,
Happy and silent two lovers strayed,
Perfume and sunshine over all
And 'round them the myriad songsters' call.
Moss and ferns crept down to the sedge
Where the wild rose hung o'er the water's edge,
And through the green aisles of the rushes rang
The chorus of joy the blackbirds sang.
Listen! From throbbing breasts of gold--
Mellowest music ever rolled--
Where, rocking on spray o'er the cascade's
	brink,
Wooing his love, trilled the bobolink!

Morning of life! and bright June day,
What could they do but onward stray,
And following close as some sweet dream
Hovered the brookside's minstrel's theme.
Then, as too near their footsteps pressed,
A lark sprang up from her wee home nest--
And, in a pool, (as in legend old),
They saw the secret their faces told.
Brighter along their homeward way
Did the flowers bloom and the sunlight play,
For their hearts were bound in that sweet link
Sung far and wide by the bobolink!
			AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
March 6th, 1913.


AM I QUEEN IN MY HOME?
Do I reign as queen in my household?
	Oh! how much does that question mean?
Can I ever with all of my striving,
	Gain that worthy title "Queen?"

Am I queen in my home to my children?
	Are they subjects loyal and true?
Is my reign full of justice and honor?
	Are they anxious my bidding to do?

Do they come to me with their sorrows?
	Do they let me share their joys?
Is "Mama" always the confidant 
	Of my heaven-sent girls and boys?

Do they entwine their arms about me
	And tell me of their fears?
Do I know their disappointments?
	Do they let me dry their tears?

Do I patiently list to their prattle,
	And join in their games at play?
Do I study out their lessons,
	And direct their efforts each day? 

Do I seek to know their meaning?
	Do I strive to ever be wise.
And bring myself back to childhood,
	And see things through children's eyes?

Am I a queen to my husband,
	My Lord, my Priest, my King?
Do I help him fulfill his calling 
	Do I with him God's praises sing?


In the right do I sustain him?
	Do I comfort, cheer, and bless?
Do I stand side by side with him equally
	And try with him to progress?

With unswerving heart do I counsel,
	With sweet intuition from heaven?
Plead and advise if there’s error,
	Let him feel I’m a “queen” God given?

Oh, show me a queen that's ideal;
	Let me get inspiration from her;
Let me absorb her best aspirations,
	In her highest convictions concur.

Oh, God, give me strength and wisdom,
	Give me light, knowledge and power;
That I to my husband and children,
	May be truly a “queen” every hour.
					VINCY R. BARKER,
						7th Ward R. S.


[Column 1] 
Harriet Amelia Snow.
A SKETCH.
Harriet Amelia, daughter of Aaron and
Elizabeth T. Squires, born 13th September
1819, in Aurora, Geauga Co.Ohio. Her hon-
orable lineage is best established by refer-
ence to the fact that her parents were na-
tives of New England, one of her grand-
fathers served in the Revolutionary war,
and that her progenitors came to America
in the Mayflower.
At twenty-five years of age, she embraced
the Gospel, and gathered with the Church
at Nauvoo. In January, 1846, she was
married to Elder Lorenzo Snow, and in
the February following with her husband
and his three other wives, crossed the Mis-
sissippi and joined the encampment of the
Saints who had preceded them. Thence
to Salt Lake Valley her story is not dissimi-
lar to that of the majority of the Saints,
except in personal incident and circum-
stance.
A praiseworthy act of hers, during the
trip across the plains, deserves historical rec-

[Column 2] 
ord. A woman had died on the way, leav-
ing three little children—one of them a
helpless infant. Sister Snow was so
wrought upon by the pitiful condition of
the infant, that she weaned her own child
and nursed the motherless babe. By a stupid
blunder of her teamster, she was one night
left behind, alone, with two little children
on the prairie. Luckily for her, a wagon had
broken down and had been abandoned by
the company. Depositing the babes in the
wagon box, she made search, and found that
some flour and a handbell had been left in
the wreck, and with this scanty outfit she
set about making supper. She first took
the clapper out of the handbell, then stopped
up the hole where it had been fastened in.
This now served her for a water pitcher.
Filling it at a brook some distance away,
she wet up some of the flour, then, with
some matches that she had with her, started
a fire, and baked the flour—cakes, herself
and thirteen months old child making their
supper upon them. She then ensconced her-
self in the wagon with her babes, and slept
till early morning, when her husband found
her and complimented her highly for her
ingenuity and bravery. (Extract from
Women of Mormondom.)
After living a few years in Salt Lake
City, her husband was called to settle in
Box Elder, and preside over thaf part of
Zion. In 1857, one of her husband’s wives
died, leaving a little girl three years old,
and a baby boy. “Aunt Harriet” (as she was
lovingly called,) took the little girl into her
heart and home, another wife took the little
baby boy, but some years later, she also
took this little one, and they shared her
mother-love, together with her own children,
until they grew up and were married. She
was a blessing in the family, in times of
illness, they all depended on her greatly,
for she was skillful in understanding the
use of herbs and nursing the sick, and her
faith and childlike trust in the Heavenly
Father was a power, and inspired the broken
hearted with calmness, courage and faith.
In May 1868, the Relief Society was or-
ganized in Brigham City, she was called to
the position of 1st counselor to President
Leonora Snow Morley. After the death of
Sister Morley, in February, 1872, Aunt
Harriet became the President of the Relief
Society of Brigham City.
In those days, there was need of a great
deal of practical labor for the Relief Soci-
ety, poor emigrants came every year to
town, sometimes whole families came next
to empty-handed, needing everything. Aunt
Harriet used to say in Relief Society meet-
ing, “let your hearts and minds expand,
let us divide and share what we have with
the newcomers,” working days were kept
every month, where quilts and carpets were
made, ready to sell or give away according
to needs.
In the first years of the Society, Aunt
Harriet led the sisters in making many over-
alls, shirts and knitted socks, which were
sent to the men who worked on the Temple
in Salt Lake City, very little money was to


[Column 1] 
be found here then, but Aunt Harriet was
resourceful, many calls were made of the
Relief Society to assist, building up the
commonwealth. Aunt Harriet made chick-
en raising a study. When the call for the
first Tabernacle in Brigham City came, she
inspired the members of the Society to
gather Sunday eggs for a certain period of
time, and a fine sum in hard cash was rea-
lized, which was quite an item in those days
when money was so scarce.
	She was an inspiration in building up
home industry, she organized a class in
braiding straw, with Sister Carrie Smith as
teacher, fine hats with homemade trimming
were made in this department. Through
her management the Society helped build
the woollen factory and the Co-op Store;
when the days of prosperity arrived, the
Society owned a goodly amount of stock
in both institutions, and when poor families
were in need, the sisters would get the splen-
did homemade cloth, call extra working
days, cut and sew until the needy were com-
fortably provided for. She herself always
dressed in home made as much as was pos-
sible. Although money was so scarce,
Aunt Harriet managed through the Society
to emigrate a number of people—several
families from England and others. But
very little if any of this money ever was re-
turned. She was prompt in filling every
call, never shirking work. The following
incident will serve as an example. On July
24th, 1875, the United Order held a Grand
Fair. Every interested man and woman
was busy in assisting with preparations.
The committee called on the Relief Society
to make thirteen flags—the Stars and Stripes
—one for each department of Home Indus-
try, and one extra large for the Courthouse.
The request was made just a couple of days
before the 24th, but Aunt Harriet was equal
to the occasion. She gathered several sew-
ing machines to her house, requested a num-
ber of the best needle women to come and
work, and proudly they turned out the full
number just in time for the great celebra-
tion.
	In 1876, Sister Emmeline B. Wells met
with the Society in Brigham City, May 22nd
she came to explain the call from President
Brigham Young, that the Relief Societies
should gather and store wheat, this wonder-
ful call Aunt Harriet took up with her whole
soul, full of energy and determination she
led the sisters into the fields to glean wheat
like Ruth of old, this was the beginning of
this work, but little by little the members
gathered means for buying wheat. In the
beginning it was kept in the basement of
the Court House, this was found impracti-
cal, so Aunt Harriet gave one of her up-
stair rooms to keep wheat in, until a granary
could be built. She planned and worked
hard for a granary. She asked all children
to bring to her all the glass pieces they
could find, these she crushed herself, and
had it mixed into the mortar used in build-
ing the granary, this substantial cool rock
building was completed in 1880. This was
the first granary among the Relief Societies
in the Stake, but she had the joy to see a
number more before her death. She was
anxious and zealous in storing wheat.
	When the Relief Society was organized
into a stake capacity, March 13th, 1878,
she became President of the Relief Society
of Box Elder Stake.
	A few years before, however, President
Brigham Young called upon the Relief So-

[Column 2]
cieties to send a number of good women to
Salt Lake City, to study and qualify in ob-
stetrics, that we might have good midwives.
Aunt Harriet with the assistance of Presi-
dent Lorenzo Snow, organized several clas-
ses. These sisters were called and set apart
for this mission, by President Lorenzo Snow
and his counselors, and Aunt Harriet obliged
herself to see that they did not suffer for
anything needful, during their schooling.
She was a mother to these and raised means
to pay the tuition for those who did not
have the means on hand, she also bought
a number of books as a medical library for
their benefit in their work.
	When the call for raising silk came, she
took up the work in earnest, herself raising
cocoons. She called upon ward societies to
buy land and plant mulberry trees. For
some years this industry prospered, the three
wards in Brigham City also the Willard as-
sociation had splendid mulberry tree
groves. Aunt Harriet, although along in
years, would hitch up a horse and buggy and
drive to the groves for loads of leaves for
her silk worms.
	In 1884, June 11th and 12th a conjoint
Fair was held in the Court House, by the
Relief Society and Y. L. M. I. Association,
the Relief Society had a splendid exhibit
of sericulture, including seven silk dresses,
four silver grey, three changeable royal
purple, big skeins of beautiful reeled silk,
many cocoons, twilled silk cloth, crocheted
ladies mitts, bright colored netted neckties,
skeins of sewing silk, also the waste from
the silk worked together with wool, showing
what could be done in this useful industry.
	When the Deseret Hospital was erected,
July 17th 1882, Aunt Harriet raised liberal
contributions yearly, of good quilts, sacks of
clean clothes, boxes of canned fruit, and sent
down to help sustain it.
	How dignified, happy and proud she
looked, when telling us about the first call
towards the Logan Temple. We had felt
happy and proud to assist building the Tab-
ernacle, but to help with the Temple,—well
it was done with a spirit of joyful reverence.
	As Stake President Aunt Harriet had to
travel a great deal, Box Elder Stake was far
reaching, taking in Snowville, Park Valley,
Grouse Creek, Malad and into Cassia Co.,
Idaho, when Aunt Harriet, and Sister Eliza
R. Snow, in President Lorenzo Snow’s com-
pany, which included many of the prominent
brethren, had traveled through the Stake and
finished organizing, she found herself Presi-
dent of twenty-four associations. The wes-
tern trip took about three weeks in those
days, but she enjoyed her labor and brought
her wonderful influence to the different
wards, she was a tower of strength to her
co-laborers; she was noble and wise in coun-
seling and directing, and her strong spiritual
mindedness coupled with her sweet humili-
ty, made her sublime. The branch presi-
dents would look forward to her coming,
and if there were any sick sisters or chil-
dren in their midst, they would take her to
them, that she might bless and comfort them.
	The nearby settlements she would visit to-
gether with as many of her board as could
go, sometimes in one big three seated wagon,
sometimes another smaller buggy. These
trips were thoroughly enjoyed by all includ-
ed.
	Aunt Harriet was very conscientious, al-
ways, duty first, in fact, her husband’s trib-
ute that he paid her the last Relief Soci-
ety meeting he attended before leaving for

[Column 3] 
Palestine 1872, gives a plain index to her
character. He delivered a spirited farewell
sermon to the Society concluding with these
words: “I leave you now in the care of
Aunt Harriet, for I know, even if the Devil
stood in the door, she would push him aside
and go to perform her duty.”
	Aunt Harriet was a tall, large woman,
dignified in appearance, plain and frugal in
tastes and habits, modest, unassuming, in-
dustrious. Her very presence inspired re-
spect and confidence in old and young, she
always wore homemade clothing as far as
could be had, continually urging the sisters
to be self-sustaining and patronize home in-
dustry, not follow the fashions of the world.
The following incident may show her integ-
rity to principle even in small things. One
bright summer day she traveled with a num-
ber of her board to visit a near by settle-
ment. Aunt Harriet wore a new dress, per-
fectly plain, princess cut, but instead of the
old fashioned invisible pocket, her daughter
had put on a new mode, a placket pocket,
At the meeting the local president reported
her ward and spoke very forcibly on the
follies of fashion, among other things, she
said: “Brigham City lies on a hill and it
ought to be a light to the whole Stake.”
Naturally the Stake officers present won-
dered if any of them had offended in some
way, so returning home in their big three
seated wagon, being all women, Counselor
Mary the teamster, they began to criticize
each other’s dress like happy school
children determined to find the culprit; with
much merriment they accused each other,
until one declared it must be Aunt Harriet’s
new pocket, and there she sat, never saying
one word but her shoulders shaking with
suppressed laughter and her eyes twinkling
with amusement. (Let me state here, that
I have never heard Aunt Harriet laugh
loud, but always a silent laugh, so to
speak.)
	Next morning the same company went to
Bear River City, arriving at the president’s
home, removing their dust coats, helping
each other with little tidy-up touches, sud-
denly they all stood transfixed looking at
Aunt Harriet for lo! she had picked off
the modern pocket and inserted an old
fashioned one in its stead, blessed Saint as
she was, always telling us, that example
speaks louder than precept. She enjoyed
the company of the young, and attended the
Young Ladies’ and Primary meetings con-
stantly.
	In looking backward through the long
vista of years, it seems impossible to give
a perfect sketch of her many-sided labors,
spiritually and temporally, she firmly be-
lieved and carried out the instructions of
the Prophet Joseph, to the Relief Society,
that they should strive to save souls and
provoke the brethren to good works. The
many peculiar calls that came to our women
in her time, she always accepted and magni-
fied her calling, loyal and true to her peers.
Her intimate associates at headquarters
were Sisters Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. H.
Young, Emmeline B. Wells, Phoebe Wood-
ruff, M. Isabella Horne, Jane Richards,
these leaders in woman’s work often visited
and enjoyed the progress of home indus-
tries in Box Elder County.
	She was a true mother in Israel, always
willing and ready to go among the sick.
She was sent for a great deal, because
the sisters loved her and her administration
in the sacred ordinances because of her sub-


lime faith in the Gospel. She always
taught and inspired her sisters to live up
to every principle of the Gospel. Being
among the first to enter Celestial Marriage,
she often testified to the greatness of this
principle, saying, “I know this is a true prin-
ciple, or I should never have stayed by it,
it is a pure and sacred principle, calculated
to exalt and ennoble all who honor and live
it as revealed by the Prophet Joseph Smith.”
	She taught and urged the sisters to gath-
er genealogy and do Temple work, herself
setting a strong example. In 1889 her
health failed more or less, she became rather
feeble and her eyesight became quite dim,
but spiritually she was full of energy to
finish her genealogy. In October she went
to Salt Lake City, attended all the meetings
of the Relief Society also the General Con-
ference, then she traveled all alone down
to Manti and worked in the Temple till her
record was finished. A month later she re-
turned home unannounced, in the afternoon
she came and surprised us in our home,
bringing her lantern; she was in the habit of
doing this, when she would stay and spend
the evening, and we would take her home
at night. She told us all her experience
during the trip and her work, told how she
had now finished her own record, also had
taken some genealogy of one of her hus-
band’s wives, fearing that she would not
attend to it, Aunt Harriet had also this
finished. Under the recital she looked so
earnest and grave, and we sat gazing at her
with eyes brimfull of tears, with a feeling
of awe, our hearts full of love and tenderness
towards her, but the still small voice plainly
whispered to us “Aunt Harriet will soon
leave us, she has finished her work.”
	Next year, May 12th, 1890, she passed to
the great beyond.
	We thank Our Heavenly Father for hav-
ing known, lived and labored with our moth-
er, “Aunt Harriet.” 
				EMELIA D. MADSEN.





WOMAN ’ S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	AN AUDIENCE WITH THE POPE.
	Our letter to Cardinal Martennelli pro-
cured us our audience with His Holiness
Pope Pius X.
	On Nov. 25th 1909 at eleven o’clock in
the morning, we drove through the streets
of Rome in the brilliant sunshine, over the
beautiful arched bridge of St. Angelo, across
St. Peter’s Square to the entrance of the
Vatican.
	When we arrived the Swiss guard in their
picturesque costumes of yellow, blue, and
black stripes, all saluted.
	We wore the customary black dresses,
black veils, and no gloves and carried rosa-
ries which the Pope might bless for our
Catholic friends at home.
	We were conducted up the spacious stairs
past a line of more saluting Swiss guards
into a lofty waiting room where probably
ninety persons were assembled. The walls
of the room were hung with beautiful car-
dinal brocaded silk, there were silk curtains
at the door and windows, large paintings
on the wall, and at one end of the room
was a gold throne with the papal coat of
arms and a dove on the back and the figures
of St. Peter and St. Paul on the sides. The
canopy was of cardinal velvet.
	The men waiting here were in evening

[Column 2]
dress, although it was not yet noon. The
women were in black, while the young girls
were in white with white veils. The veils
are draped on top of the head and fall
over the shoulders with the ends fastened in
front, but do not cover the face. There were
a number of monks and nuns here too.
	After a time a chamberlain, in a gorgeous
costume of cardinal brocaded silk, and wear-
ing cardinal silk hose, black shoes with car-
dinal buckles, ushered us out in groups of
about thirty. We traversed interminable
distances it seemed, through a series of
broad and spacious apartments similar to
that which we had left. Finally we passed
through a smaller room where a number
of persons were standing evidently waiting
to receive a greeting and blessing from the
Pope. We were taken into the next room
and stood in a circle around the wall. It
was an exquisite room. The walls were hung
with cardinal moire silk, the carpet of car-
dinal velvet with the papal coat of arms in
the center and behind us was a large gold
throne. The windows were draped with
white silk curtains, long and softly sweeping
as transparent as lace.
	Two officers in full uniform with helmets
and swords kept guard. One lady had for-
gotten to remove her gloves so she was
asked to take them off. In a moment or so
another officer came in and inspected each of
us from top to toe to see that all was correct
and probably to see that there were no suspi-
cious characters present, for we heard that
at that time the Vatican feared anarchists.
	There was a little rustling movement in
the next room, the guard signaled us all to
kneel and the Pope, accompanied by an at-
tendant robed in purple, entered. His Holi-
ness was dressed entirely in white cloth, a
beautiful, fine, soft fabric, and he wore
hanging on his breast a magnificent emerald
cross. He came in in the simplest fashion,
walked around to each one and extended
his hand in blessing and that each might
kiss the ring of St. Peter which he wore.
After he had passed us, one woman, over
devout, I suppose, bowed to the floor to
kiss his feet, but he jumped back as though
very nervous and did not allow it. The at-
tendant and guards came up quickly, but
the Pope recovered himself, spoke to her and
placed his hand upon her head. After each
had received his greeting he arose, then
when the Pope had been all around the room
we all knelt again, and the Pope, standing in
the center, gave the blessing for all in melo-
dious Italian. He was a man of fine phy-
sique, with white hair, and a ruddy com-
plexion, large kindly Italian eyes and a
simple, gracious manner. His personality
spoke a kindly sympathy for human nature,
and one felt in his presence that a strenuous
life out among his people, helping them in
their struggle in the world, more strongly
appealed to him than an existence which re-
quired him to shut himself away in appar-
ent seclusion.
	After the Pope had finished the blessing
he went into the next room, when he re-
turned we formed a passage from one door
to the other, standing on each side, and as
he passed through, all knelt again, and the
audience, simple but impressive, was over.
	Then we walked back through all the
gorgeous cardinal rooms, past the saluting
Swiss guards and bowing footmen and left
the Vatican.
						G. B. W.


TO A DEAR YOUNG GIRL, EMMIE. 
Slowly with the changing seasons
	In loneliness the years had passed,
Heated summers, autumns somber,
	And the winter ’  s chilling blast;
Dear ones sleeping past earth ’ s waking,
	Dear ones toiling far away;
And my heart still listening, waiting,
	For their coming, day by day. 

Far away the salt lake glistened;
	Fair days, when its waves were blue;
But when white, rude storms descended
	And isolation sterner grew. 
Mountain ranges, gray clad stretches
	Where no streams ran, nor green trees
Broke the monotone of landscape
	With the wild birds ’  melodies. 

Thus the years passed, pioneering,
	Hoping time and toil would bring
Round our dwelling bloom and beauty,
	And the valley yet would ring
With the sounds of busy labor,
	Shine with streams from depths below,
And the desert gray yield harvests,
	As foretold so long ago. 

So the heart fed on its mem ’ ries
	Of dear friends and days gone by;
Ah, how many have passed from us,
	Happier now than you or I. 
Then, at last, almost a stranger,
	Came I to old haunts of mine;
Scenes may change, but true selves ever
	Changeless keep their countersign. 

“Sister Crocheron, you ’ re remembered,”
	 ’ Twas a girl ’ s sweet voice that spoke;
Ah, the long years ’  shadows vanished
	And glad feelings, long hushed, woke. 
Snow was still upon the mountains,
	But the spring, with flower and bird,
Filled my being with its joyance
	As her welcoming I heard. 

Grace and sweetness were thy dower,
	Never may their beauties fade;
Ne ’ er across thy happy pathway,
	Shadows cold, or thorns be laid. 
May the sunshine and the music
	Of thy face and voice endure;
As thou gav ’ st, to thee be given,
	Heart gifts true and sweet and pure. 
			AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON. 
Salt Lake City, Nov. 19, 1912.


BOOK REVIEW.
	We have received from Dillon, Montana,
a new book entitled “Poetic Gems to the
World I Love,” by Mrs. Louise Coulson.
The author’s picture is the frontispiece. The
collection is somewhat fragmentary, con-
taining poems that breathe sweetness and
purity and touch a sympathetic chord in
the hearts of those whose minds tend to the
spiritual side of life, thus bettering human-
ity and the home.
	Mrs. Coulson resided here in Utah for
some years, and became well acquainted
with our people. She both spoke and 
wrote in their behalf.
	We trust this little volume will prove a
blessing to its readers, and bring success to
its author.


NOTES.
	Idaho women sent their suffrage banner
to New York for the parade.  On one [--]
of it is the design of the State s[--] which
was executed in 1890 by M[--] J. G. Green.
This is said to be the only State seal ever
designed by a woman. The pin of the State
Federation is also formed from the seal.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop’s
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City. Utah
is second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH,	-	MAY, 1913


MOTHER’S DAY IN MAY TIME.
	It is a beautiful season to have chosen in
which to keep a festive occasion, in remem-
brance of the mothers through whom the
earth has been peopled—the mothers, who
knowing the suffering and the responsibility
have accepted it all to perpetuate the human
race—mothers of prophets, seers and reve-
lators; mothers of doctors, lawyers, minis-
ters; mothers of doctors, lawyers, minis-
ters; mothers of kings and princes; mothers
of great men in all the walks of life. We
only read of one man who had no earthly
mother, and he was the first man Adam.
He was alone in the new world; and since
it was not good for him to be alone, he was
given an Eve to be his companion and help-
meet. She was the mother of the race that
has peopled the world.
	There is no joy equal to that of the moth-
er when the babe is born—a new life, an
immortal soul that will exist forever, a part
of her own life! Would it were possible
that all the women in the world could realize
the importance of this great blessing and
could comprehend the vastness and magni-
tude of motherhood—there would be more
rejoicing and less unhappiness.
	Some of the most vivid word-
pictures of the supreme joy of motherhood
are drawn in connection with the birth of
Isaac and of Samuel; and still more intensi-
fied in the royal birth of Jesus. Those who
read these wonderful passages in the Scrip-
tures can scarcely realize all that these births
meant to the mothers, who were really and
truly in direct communication with divine
messengers; we marvel at these manifesta-
tions given to women of ancient times and
while we can hardly understand it all, the
simplicity of the narration appeals to us with
the utmost sense of its sublimity.
	In the case of Sarah, we wonder how
she could laugh when the Lord spoke with
her. To us who have such reverence for
even a prophet or an apostle, it seems in-
credible that one should make light of con-
versation with the Lord.
	The month of May is typical of all the
tenderest and most beautiful expressions.
It is the month of delicate flowers, bright-
colored birds, and budding and blossoming
fruits. It seems indeed fitting that Mothers
day should be observed in May, for it is
also the month in which the graves of our
country’s heroes, and of loved ones gone be-
fore, should be decorated with choicest flow-
ers by the hands of women who love the


cause for which they laid down their lives;
and so we say on each May day: O happy
mothers to have borne illustrious sons who
fought in freedom’s cause and whose graves
are dear to every mother who loves her own.
	As we look backward, we can find many
wonderful mothers of men and women. In 
the nineteenth century, there was Lucy
Mack Smith, mother of the great Prophet
of this dispensation, and of his brother the
Patriarch. If we could but look into her
eyes and hear her relate the story of her
life, we would certainly class her with the 
greatest mothers who have been permitted
to bring forth men who have stood for the 
highest ideals of honor and spiritual up-
lifting that have ever been revealed, since
the world began.


EDITORIAL NOTE.
	Interesting programs were rendered
March 17 by nearly all the Relief Societies
in the Church, so many indeed it would be
impossible to publish them all; but it is with
much pleasure that we read of the renewed
interest in Relief Society work these occa-
sions arouse and we trust the Latter-day
Saint women will always appreciate their
membership in this splendid organization.
There are reports from Payette, Cannon,
Liberty, Roy wards and many others.


[Column 1]
GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFER-
			ENCE. 
	The Conference of the General Relief So-
ciety of the Church was held in the Assem-
bly Hall, Salt Lake City, Utah, April 2nd
and 3rd, 1913, commencing Wednesday,
April 2nd, at 10 a. m., President Emmeline
B. Wells presiding. 
	The morning session opened with singing
“We Thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet.”
Prayer by Miss Sarah M. McLelland. Sing-
ing, “Softly Beams the Sacred Dawning.”
	President Emmeline B. Wells extended a
loving and tender greeting to those assem-
bled. She regretted the fact that the weather
was so stormy, but felt that this would not
mar the good effect of the conference, if we
all have sunshine in our hearts. She re-
gretted the fact that some have departed
from us since our last meeting, but felt no
sorrow for them; the only real sorrow we
should have is for those who go into outer
darkness. President Wells expressed the
hope that all the members of the Relief So-
ciety love, uphold, and sustain each other,
and that all are united in this great work of
love. 
	The work of the Lord is progressing. It
is a source of joy to know that another
temple is to be built, and this in Canada.
The growth in this direction will go on and
on, so that the salvation for the dead may be
more readily accomplished. 
	Mrs. Sarah P. Stohl of Box Elder Stake
responded to the President’s greeting. She
expressed joy and satisfaction in being per-
mitted once more to see and hear our be-
loved president. Felt that all should appre-
ciate the fact that our president knew per-
sonally the Prophet Joseph Smith, and knew
of his great desires to aid and uplift the
women of our people. She was pleased to
report Box Elder Stake in good condition. 
Weekly meetings have been inaugurated,
also department work, the older sisters

[Column 2]
meeting in one class and the young mothers
in another, each department taking up work
particularly fitting to its various needs. The
evolution of women has been discussed and
time has been spent on genealogical work. 
	Sister Verona B. Redd, secretary of Tay-
lor Stake, reported that much good is being
accomplished in this far away stake. The
people are intensely interested in their work,
and are steadily progressing. 
	She was followed by Mrs. Sarah McLel-
land, a member of the Board of Bannock
Stake. There are fourteen societies in this
stake, scattered over a large area of coun-
try. It is necessary to travel seventy-five
miles to reach one ward. The members are
all united, and the work is steadily growing. 
	Sister Alice Boomer represented Bingham
Stake, where there are ten societies and a
membership of four hundred. The class
work is especially good, being conducted by
competent class leaders. 
	Bro. George Pyper sang a tenor solo, “My
Native Land.”
	Benson Stake was reported by Mrs. Re-
becca Rawlins. The distinctive feature of
her report was that in this stake two sisters
have been appointed especially to call on all
the aged and sick and infirm, for the purpose
of giving them comfort and cheer.
	Mrs. Eleanor Squires reported Liberty
Stake, where the organization is new. In
this stake preparation meetings for officers
have been instituted and are very success-
ful. Among other things “Home Econom-
ics” has been taken up, and actual demon-
strations in cooking given. 
	By special request Bro. George Pyper
gave another solo, “O, My Father.” The
President expressed gratitude for this cour-
tesy, and asked that the audience give a ris-
ing vote of thanks to Bro. Pyper. 
	Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon, President of
Pioneer Stake, and a member of the State
Legislature recently adjourned, then deliv-
ered an address, “Women in Social Ser-
vice.”
	Mrs. Cannon stated that outside of her
family and the Gospel nothing is so dear to
her as the Relief Society work, with all that
it has accomplished in its various fields. The
great opening for women in the world had
its beginning with the Latter-day Saints in
the organization of this powerful society,
which was the opening wedge. 
	The status of women today is very differ-
ent from what it was fifty years ago, great
changes have taken place and much progress
made.
	Woman has always had one opportunity
—the opportunity to work; this one thing
has never been denied her. Man has never
considered that she was out of her sphere
when she toiled in the fields and factories;
he has never criticized her for leaving her
home for any kind of drudgery; but when
she began to enter the professional field and
when she began to compete with men in the
great work of the world, she was reminded
that she was going out of her own sphere
and was neglecting her home. 
	After the key was turned for woman by
the Prophet Joseph Smith she began to look
around and to think; she felt that if she were
not out of her sphere in the working world,
she would not be out of her sphere in public
life; so she turned her eyes to education and
to general development, and little by little,
step by step, she has gained a prominent
place in the world’s work. 
	Last year much good was done in Amer-


[Column 1]
ica by the women, not only in suffrage
states, but in other states as well, and legis-
lative work has been greatly influenced by
them indirectly by the intelligent interest
they have manifested in public questions;
and, as this interest has grown, women have
had less time for novel reading and frivolous
amusements.
	There have been women in our State leg-
islature from time to time, and in the session
just closed we had three women in the
House of Representatives, all deeply inter-
ested in such legislation as would help to
uplift and benefit humanity. Some of the
social legislation worked for was secured,
and while some failed, it was only the be-
ginning of a campaign for better things
which will be ultimately successful.
	When it was recommended that the Juve-
nile Court be done away with because it
was only partially effective, the women rose
to the occasion; they were on the alert and
through their efforts the subject was recon-
sidered; and as the result the State of Utah
has one of the best Juvenile Court laws in
the world today.
	Another measure for which we are all
pleased is the minimum wage for women.
Utah is the first state to establish this law.
The least wage that can now be paid a girl
apprentice over sixteen, is seventy-five cents
a day, or $4.50 per week. Much was said
against this law by paid lobbyists, and it was
predicted that it would kill home industry.
This same prediction was made two years
ago with regard to the nine-hour law, but
no evil result has so far been seen. The
State Vice Commission in Chicago has been
discussing this same question and trying to
sift it to the bottom. They have found that
women do not receive a living wage and
girls sell their souls to live. They feel that
the question is beyond them and have ap-
pealed to President Wilson to call a con-
gress of governors to settle the question.
All thinking people may know that some-
thing is materially wrong when 95% of the
profits in a manufacturing business goes to
the manufacturer himself and only 5% goes
to the workers—the people who make the
business and put their whole lives into the
work.
	It is a great satisfaction to know that a
woman deputy is to be appointed in the State
department of Immigration, Labor and Sta-
tistics, and this seems highly appropriate
since 99% of the employees in the state,
aside from mining, smelting, and railroad-
ing, are women.
	We are extremely proud of the widowed
mother’s pension law, and proud of the men
and women who helped to bring it about.
It is much better, too, for the state to help
the mother care for her little ones and allow
her to train them when young than to have
in later years perhaps to support them in
penal institutions.
	Equal guardianship of children is another
good law accomplished through the efforts
of the women.
	Several good measures introduced by the
women failed, and among them the bill pro-
viding for the establishment of a girls’ dor-
mitory at the State University. This is the
first thing the women of the State in a
united body have asked for, and because of
the great need of such a home for outside
girls it is a matter of keen regret that the
measure failed.
	In the face of all these things, we can see
that women have a sphere beyond the home,

[Column 2]
and it is to be hoped that in the future the
women of the Relief Society will interest
themselves in all questions of social legisla-
tion and avail themselves of the opportuni-
ties they have to help bring about important
and needed reforms.
	Announcements were made and the ses-
sion closed with singing, “O Ye Mountains
High,” and prayer by Mrs. Sarah Jenne
Cannon.
		AFTERNOON SESSION.
	At 2 p. m. the conference was resumed.
The congregation sang “Hail to the Bright-
ness of Zion’s Glad Morning.”
	Prayer, Dr. Romania B. Penrose. Sing-
ing, “Earth with Her Ten Thousand
Flowers.”
	President Wells announced that the after-
noon session would be devoted to public
health problems. The speakers are all spe-
cialists in their lines and will no doubt give
very valuable information and instruction.
	Mrs. Alice M. Horne introduced the
speakers and their subjects.
	The first speaker was Dr. S. H. Paul,
Health Commissioner of Salt Lake City,
who took for his theme, “Saving the Babies
and the Value of Milk Depots.”
	Dr. Paul said he was especially pleased to
be able to talk to such a large audience, be-
cause to a great extent the efficiency of the
health department depended upon the un-
derstanding and co-operation of the public.
Many things the health authorities had at-
tempted, he said, had failed partially at first
because the reasons and necessity for certain
rules and regulations were not understood.
In illustrating this, Dr. Paul referred to con-
ditions of the city’s milk supply, which be-
fore the enactment and enforcement of the
present regulations were deplorable. At
first, he said, there was decided opposition
from milk producers, but more recently,
through co-operation of producers and dis-
tributors, Salt Lake’s milk supply compared
favorably with that of other cities.
	Dr. Paul spoke of the concerted attempts
of other cities to lower the rate of infant
mortality. In some cities he said that one
infant in five died before reaching one year
of age, and although conditions in Salt Lake
were vastly better than the average, at least
75% of the deaths of infants were from
ailments preventable through proper feeding,
and a large proportion were from milk unfit
before it reached the home. Dr. Paul said
that it was the purpose of the health depart-
ment to establish a milk depot where proper
milk could be furnished for infants, and to
engage trained nurses to instruct mothers
in the care and preparation of food for in-
fants.
	In providing proper milk for infants, he
said, the first requirement was to get good
milk of proper chemical composition, and
next to see that it was kept pure after it
was delivered to the home.
	Mrs. Emma Ramsey Morris gave a vocal
solo, “Fear Not Ye, O Israel,” and by spe-
cial request sang “Come, Come Ye Saints.”
	Prof. Jakob Bolin of the school of physical
education of the University of Utah, then
gave an entertaining and instructive talk on
the necessity for proper posture, explaining
the injurious effects of improper carriage
and describing exercises by which improper
posture may be corrected.
	He asserted that many women live in a
state of constant invalidism because of care-
lessness in this respect.
	Dr. W. Brown Ewing, nerve specialist,
was the next speaker. His address in full
appears in this paper.
	At the close of each lecture questions
were asked from the body of the house and
were answered by the speakers respectively.
	Congregation sang, “Come, Come Ye
Saints.”
	Closing prayer, Mrs. Emma A. Empey.
			(To be continued.)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE CHILD—BORN AND UNBORN.
By W. Brown Ewing, read at General Re- 
		lief Society Conference.
	When a member of your committee asked
for this address I confess I was at a loss to
know just what ground to cover and just
what would be the most useful.
	As my work has been, for so many years,
entirely along mental and nervous lines I
naturally take up that phase of the subject. 
	It has often been said that “the hand that
rocks the cradle rules the world.” The
proper way to train a child is to begin with
its grandparents. The problems of caring 
for the fit and the unfit are entirely separate
and distinct. The education of children is a
vast problem that has not been fully worked
out.
	Environment, good or bad, has a wonder-
ful influence on the future mental welfare
of the child. But no surroundings however
good they may be, will compensate, in any
adequate degree, for a bad heredity and a
vitiated nerve cell formation. He who dis-
regards nature’s laws will surely pay the
penalty—sooner or later. Like will produce
like, just as surely as night follows day, in
the palace of the king or the hovel of the
pauper.
	If we remember that genius is essentially
abnormal, and direct the teaching along gen-
eral lines rather than toward fostering any
special bent, we will surely more nearly
reach the desired goal. Yet how often we
find the opposite course persisted in and the
precocious child encouraged along the one
line of his peculiar aptitude—a one-sided
brain development—and the abnormal ten-
dency strengthened rather than retarded. No
amount of cultivation will give good growth
when the nerve cells are few and ill-nour-
ished; but careful culture can do much
when there are those with strong inherent
impulses toward development. On neurol-
ogical grounds, therefore, nurture is to be
considered of much less importance than
nature, and in that sense the capacities that
we most admire in person’s worthy of re-
mark are certainly inborn rather than made
(Donaldson).
	To be efficacious, physical and mental
training should go hand in hand, so
that the mentality may not be ham-
pered by a weak body. Would you
wish a child to become an accomplished
musician or a lightning calculator and
yet need a guardian in the ordinary 
affairs of life? From such material are the
world’s feeble-minded and criminal classes
recruited.
	Every child is a separate and distinct
problem. The treatment that will strengthen
one nervous system may utterly ruin an-
other; and only by careful study and obser-
vation can you decide what course to pur-
sue. Children like or dislike intuitively and
their confidence may be secured or lost in a
moment’s time. Their confidence may be


[Column 1]
secured by a kind word or thoughtful act,
or lost by a careless word or deed. The
child has not yet been born whose love and
affection was gained by falsehood or deceit.
Study the child, even more assiduously than
the “alfalfa weevil,” for really the subject is
more worthy and more important. A “sane
mind is a sound body” is more important
than monetary consideration, for in the end
the difference may be the sorrows that ac-
company the little white casket and the beau-
tiful flowers. It costs no more to “raise” a
man capable of living for eighty years than
it does to “grow” one who has not the capac-
ity of living to be forty years old (Fisher.)
	To begin a child’s training with its grand-
parents simply means that children sprung
from unhealthy and abnormal parents will be
abnormal, and that they will start the battle
of life under a handicap. The strenuous-
ness of this life is hard enough on the here-
ditarily strong; what must it be on the one
who from the first is below par? The vast
experience that culminated in the Mendelian
theory enables us to predict, almost with
certainty, the relative fitness or unfitness of
the progeny of a given marriage. The re-
sults of an analysis of pedigrees of insane
subjects, and rules of theoretical expectation
as propounded by Mendel, and known as
the Mendelian laws, are as follows—
	1—Both parents being neuropathic, all
children will be neuropathic.
	2—One parent normal, but with neuropa-
thic taint from one parent, and the other par-
ent being neuropathic, half the children will
be neuropathic and half will be normal but
capable of transmitting the neuropathic
make-up to their progeny.
	3—One parent being normal and of pure
normal ancestry and the other parent being
neuropathic, all of the children will be normal
but capable of transmitting the neuropathic
make-up to their progeny.
	4—Both parents being normal, but each
with the neuropathic taint from one parent,
one-fourth of the children will be normal
and not capable of transmitting the neuropa-
thic make-up to their progeny, one-half
will be normal but capable of transmitting
the neuropathic make-up, and the remaining
one-fourth will be neuropathic.
	5—Both parents being normal, one of pure
normal ancestry and the other with a
neuropathic taint from one parent, all the
children will be normal, half of them will be
capable and half incapable of transmitting
the neuropathic make-up to their progeny.
	6—Both parents being normal and of pure
normal ancestry, all the children will be nor-
mal and not capable of transmitting the
neuropathic make-up in their progeny.
	What better inheritance could you wish
from your parents than a pure normal hered-
ity without taint of any kind? Can lands
and houses, and the cattle on a thousand
hills compensate for it? True it is that oc-
casionally a defective is born to normal par-
ents, but the relative infrequency of such an
occurrence only emphasizes the law of hered-
ity. The child born to a heritage of unrest
may not “outgrow it” regardless of the fa-
ble to the contrary so often quoted. He may
be trained out of it but he will “outgrow”
very few things but his cradle and
his clothes.
	The problem of caring for the unfit is
becoming more and more grave with each
succeeding year. When we must face it
squarely is only a problem in procrastina-
tion. We know that the vast majority of

[Column 2]
degenerates are the children of parents who
were insane, feeble-minded, epileptic, alco-
holic, or too closely related by blood. If this
statement holds good, it stands to reason that
the more profound the parental taint the
worse, the degeneracy. Shall our defective
population be allowed to increase without
restraint? Shall we continue to procrasti-
nate? Shall children be born who have very
little chance of life and almost none of real
usefulness? It seems only too true that “the
forests are protected, the hogs inspected and
the children neglected.”
	In your capacity as advisers in case of
sickness you can assist many whose oppor-
tunities have been limited or those over
whom fortune has spread a cloud that seems
to have no silver lining.
	If you could at the same time discourage
the marriage of the unfit—remembering that
only from healthy parents can healthy off-
spring result—you will accomplish a work
that future generations will remember with
gratitude. I know full well that very many
people select their life-mate with much less
care than would be bestowed on a new suit
or hat. It will be said that I would take
from love all the poetry—perhaps—yet I
would like to substitute good common sense
for poetry. The so-called Indiana Child
Creed that every child has the inalienable
right to be born free from disease, free from
deformity, and with pure blood; every child
has the inalienable right to be loved; to
have its individuality respected; to be
trained wisely in mind, body and soul: to be
protected from disease, from evil influences
and evil persons, and to have a fair chance
in life, holds good in this and every state.
We say that all rules are broken in case of
sickness, and the comforts of the well must
give way to the sick, yet I have known the
expectant mother to receive less considera-
tion and care than is bestowed on the lower
animals. Is it ignorance? Is it thought-
lessness? Or worse—is it a question of dol-
lars and cents? If she requires intelligent
care after a new life is ushered into the
world, she certainly does before. In the
present generation women underclad, under-
fed, overworked, cannot bear infants en-
dowed with an organism fit to stay; factory
children, with no light, no air, no resistance,
grow up, if at all, to ages in which they are
permitted to procreate their kind, only poor-
er (Jacob). Thus children are starved or de-
fectives before they are born, infected with
hereditary diseases, and destined to be born
only to perish.
	In the education of the mother, in the care
of herself and her baby, we have the strong-
est weapon for fighting infant mortality. The
prevention of infant mortality forces the
problem of tuberculosis into second place.
The United States government report for
1908 gives the mortality from every form of
tuberculosis, in the registration area, as 78,-
289: whereas the number of infant deaths
under one year of age total 136,432!
	A baby comes into the world with less
chance to live one week than an old man
of ninety, and less chance to live a year
than one of eighty. Is it not true that there
are too many short coffins sold in the United
States? More than 1000 infants, under one
year of age, die annually in this state. Dr.
Hope of Liverpool reports that the deaths
among children under three months of age
either wholly or partially fed on artificial
foods are fifteen times as great as they are
among an equal number of infants fed on

[Column 3]
breast-milk. Ten bottle-fed babies die to
one that is breast-fed. Partially from statis-
tics and partially from estimates 1,500,000
persons die annually in the United States,
630,000 of these from preventable diseases.
	The fundamental causes of infant mor-
tality are mainly the result of three condi-
tions—poverty, ignorance, and neglect.
	The head of the United States government
Children’s Bureau (Miss Julia Lathrop) has
this to say regarding infant mortality:
	“Most of us are very much shocked to
find that in the ten years from 1910 back to
1900, there came into the world at least two
and one half million children who died be-
fore they were one year old, slipping into
life and out again, unknown and unnum-
bered in any public way.”
	And yet is there not something worse than
infant mortality — disgraceful and waste-
ful as it is? The moral degenerates that fill
our prisons, the insane that fill our asylums,
all have to be reckoned with. If improper
marriages, vicious living, ignorance and pov-
erty pad the death roll, do they not also
leave us a certain class of human beings
characterized throughout life by certain pe-
culiarities, eccentricities, originality in some
useless way, oddities of manner, speech or
dress, non-conformity to the rules that gov-
ern the great body of mankind, these things
not amounting to true insanity, and yet being
usually by heredity closely allied to it, or by
evolution ending in it at last? No one has
lived long in the world without meeting
many examples. Some of these examples
are strikingly original, a genius in some
lines of work or thought, yet in the ordinary
affairs of life wanting in those traits that
bring success, and capable of transmitting
to posterity an unstable mentality and a
vitiated heredity. The poor you have al-
ways with you, the mentally defective like-
wise; in the one case a distinctive hereditary
taint as a causative factor and at the same
time preventable, in the other a misfortune.
You can neither legislate nor educate pover-
ty from the world, but you can educate
hereditary mental defectives out of exist- 
ence.
	In your labors of love among the poorer
classes there is a vast field open to you, a
field that has not received the attention it
deserves, a field that by its newness begets
opposition in the ignorant, and yet a field of
work that will amply pay for all your time
and labor, and the result will be—what?—
Better children born and unborn.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SOCIETY OF THE UTAH HAND-CART
			PIONEERS.
	Three years ago today, April 14, 1910, a
little company of Hand-cart Pioneers and
daughters met at the home of Sister Hannah
Lapish in response to an invitation published
by her in the daily papers that all Hand-cart
Pioneers and daughters meet at her home.
Quite a number responded to the invitation,
and upon arriving were told by Sister Lap-
ish the object she had in view when she
called them together. She felt it was time the
Hand-cart Pioneers were recognized for the
part they took in the early history of our
Church and State. She had visited Presi-
dent Joseph F. Smith, told him her desires
and received his approval. He blessed her
and told her to go ahead and organize and
he would do all he could to help her.
	Having received the sanction and blessing


[Column 1]
of President Smith and being urged by
Maria Y. Dougall, Zina Y. Card and other
daughters of the Pioneers, Sister Lapish de-
cided to call the Hand-cart Pioneers to-
gether and organize. Accordingly, she with
the help of Sister Dougall, who was present
by special request, proceeded to organize the
society to be known as the Utah Hand-Cart
Pioneers and Daughters. Mary A. Van
was chosen temporary chairman and Pearl
Woodmansee temporary secretary. Because
this society owes its origin to Hannah Lap-
ish, she was given the title of Founder Gen-
eral and was chosen President, with Sarah
Swift first counselor, and Emily Beebe sec-
ond counselor, Mary A. Van, secretary,
Pearl Woodmansee, corresponding secre-
tary, Anna Livingston, assistant secretary,
Jennie Careless, historian, Sarah Kedding-
ton, treasurer, Hannah Saunders, chaplain,
Mary S. Houtz, registrar, together with 39
charter members, and M. Y. Dougall, an
honorary member.
	Constitution and by laws were formed and
a committee, with Frances Armstrong as
chairman, appointed to read and report.
They were approved by the committee and
adopted by the society, whose object was to
commemorate and perpetuate the memory of
the sublime faith and heroic courage of the
Utah Hand-cart Pioneers, who for the sake
of their religion, journeyed on foot, draw-
ing their belongings in two-wheeled carts,
a distance of from one thousand to twelve
hundred miles, over barren country, inhabi-
ted only by wild animals and Indians.
	It shall be the purpose of this society to
collect and preserve an accurate history of
those memorable journeys with their indes-
cribable sufferings, hardships, and priva-
tions, and a display of more than ordinary
fortitude. And it is the subject of this soci-
ety to preserve the names of all those who
started to come to this then Territory by
hand-carts, whether they reached their desti-
nation or perished by the way.
	For this purpose we feel that a monument
should be erected in a public place, and all
these names inscribed upon it. Having this
object in view, a small bank was purchased,
and presented to the society by Sarah Swift,
and at each meeting it has a conspicuous
place on the table where members drop do-
nations from time to time.
	This being the third anniversary of our
society, it seems only fitting that we should
refresh our memories upon a few of the
things that have transpired during that time.
We have met on the 14th of each month,
and have had many interesting talks
from those who crossed the plains with
hand-carts; also words of encouragement
from Prest. Joseph F. Smith, John Henry
Smith, Seymour B. Young, and many
others. We have met twice each year with
the Hand-Cart Veterans, where interesting
times were had, and have had excursions
to Wandamere and many pleasant parties
at different homes.
	During all our little existence, we have
been fortunate in having the beautiful home
of our loved President Frances Armstrong
for our meeting place, and have received
many courtesies and pleasant surprises from
her hands. At the expiration of two years,
she was unanimously chosen our second
President, with Alicia Arnold first counsel-
or, and Jennie Careless second counselor.
Sister Lapish had served us well, and we
still feel she is the “back-bone” of the soci-
ety.

[Column 2]
	We have chosen red as our color, typical
of the flower called “Indian Paint Brush”
which grew in abundance at that time. Our
society pin is made of enamel in colors. We
also have a banner, hand painted by our
Founder-General, Hannah Lapish. This
also portrays the pulling of hand-carts
across the plains and was proudly carried
by our society in the big parade on the 24th
of last July.
	Since our organization people have
awakened to the fact that there was such a
thing as a Hand-cart Pioneer and many
inquiries have come from all over the state,
showing great interest in the organization.
While we know we are still in our infancy,
yet we feel we will, as Sister Dougall said
we would, come to the front and be a lead-
ing society in Utah. We have come to the
front, and are being recognized. This was
proven at our recent conference, when we
were called together by our honored Presi-
dent Joseph F. Smith and counselors, and
entertained by them, and such men as Elders
Francis M. Lyman, Orson F. Whitney,
James E. Talmage, Bishop Heber S. Iver-
son, the Old Folks Choir, and others.
	We are proud of our society and the fact
that our pioneers and parents pulled hand-
carts across the plains. When we sing our
hand-cart song, “Some Must Push and 
Some Must Pull,” we feel, with Brother
Heber C. Kimball, that we have pushed and
pulled our way to Zion. Now we must keep
pushing and pulling to get into the Kingdom
of God.
					MARY A. VAN
							Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		BEAR RIVER STAKE.
	Bear River Stake Relief Society confer-
ence was held in the Garland Social Hall,
Jan. 16th, 1913, at 10 and 2 o’clock.
	President Margaret W. Manning, presid-
ing.
	There were present, First Counselor of the
Stake Presidency, P. M. Hansen, five High
Councilors, two bishops, one member of
high priests’ quorum, five members of the
Y. M. M. I. A. and Y. L. M. I. A. stake
boards, two ward teachers, two members of
Primary stake board, and one member of
Stake Religion class; Sisters Julia Farns-
worth and Elizabeth McCune of the General
Board, ten stake board members and a very
good representation of officers and members
from the various wards.
	Singing, Now Let us Rejoice.
	Prayer, Bro. J. P. Christenson.
	Singing, Sweet is the work, My God.
	Pres. Margaret W. Manning made the
opening remarks. Felt very grateful for the
good attendance at our conference and
thought the sisters had a great deal of faith
to enable them to get out so early and come
so far to conference; felt the Lord would
certainly bless them for so doing; felt grate-
ful that so many of the Priesthood were
able to meet with us; was more than pleased
to announce that we had two sisters of the
General Board with us, Sisters Julia Farns-
worth and Elizabeth McCune. They had ex-
pressed a desire to hear the local presidents
report the different societies, which was very
ably done.
	Duet. Sisters Lucetta Thompson and
Mame Shumway.
	Sister McCune: There is an excellent

[Column 2]
spirit in our midst; had lived in the country
and knew the extra effort the sisters had
to make to come so far. The Lord will
certainly bless us for all the efforts we put
forth to do our duty. Was very much
pleased with the reports that had been given
on the storing of grain and other Relief
Society work; encouraged the sisters to
continue in gathering grain; advised them
not to sell all of it at once, but felt we
should keep some always on hand; had
worked in the Temple and was very much
interested in work for our dead. President
Joseph F. Smith gave the General Board as
a mission, the making and keeping of tem-
ple clothes on hand; urged Relief Society
presidents to keep two or three suits on
hand in case of emergency. Mothers should
teach their daughters to come to the temples
properly dressed; felt it would be lovely for
girls to make their own dainty little temple
suits to be married in, instead of spending
so much time on their silks and satins.
	Sister Julia Farnsworth: Had enjoyed
the spirit of conference; thanked the sisters
for the warm welcome they had given them;
felt the gospel brings us nearer together
and makes us more or less acquainted.
Mothers should not neglect homes, hus-
bands, and children for public duties; urged
the sisters to do all they could in temple
work.
	Pres. P. M. Hanson made encouraging
remarks, and commended the sisters for
their faithful and energetic work in Relief
Society.
	Singing, The Happy Day has Rolled on.
	Prayer, Bro. J. E. Dewey.
	During the noon hours a wholesome lunch
was served to all present by the Garland
Relief Society sisters, the same having
been prepared by sisters from the different
societies.
	Afternoon session.
	Singing, Now let us Anew.
	Prayer, Bro. David Manning.
	Sister Julia Farnsworth: Thought the
attendance very good for so small a stake;
had been a member of the Relief Society for
thirty-seven years; read a sketch of the life
and mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith;
referred back to the council in heaven, and
mentioned the many incidents down through
the ages of men that were necessary for the
restoration of the Gospel, and the coming
of the Prophet Joseph Smith; portrayed
beautifully his youth and first vision; pic-
tured on through the struggles of life, how
he was fitted to fill his glorious mission.
	Sister McCune said: When talking of
the prophet it always brings a good spirit;
spoke of genealogical classes that were be-
ing organized in the Church; urged all to
join that could; encouraged family reunions,
so they could organize and help each other
in doing work for their dead. It is wonder-
ful what can be accomplished if we only
put forth our efforts; spoke of temptations
menacing us, especially the young. Parents
must be ever on the alert watching and
help to keep them clean and pure; spoke of
the evils in cities where young people went
to supper after dances and theaters, the
temptations there awaiting them.
	Sister Farnsworth said if we would be
loyal to the Exponent it would be printed
in magazine form and contain and outline.
	Ester C. Evans: Felt we had had a splen-
did conference; felt grateful for the visit-
ing sisters that were with us; said we had
made progress in our work and study in the


past year; felt anxious that we continue on
through the new year, and knew we would
if we would do our part and work unitedly
together. Prayed the Lord’s blessings on
us all.
	Conference was then adjourned for six
months.
	Singing, Abide with Me.
	Closing prayer, Hannah E. Loveland.
				EFFIE I. WELLING,
						Sec. Pro Tem.

		ST. JOSEPH STAKE.
	The Semi-Annual conference of the Re-
lief Societies of the St. Joseph Stake con-
vened at the meeting-house in Thatcher,
Sunday March the 9th, 1913, beginning at
10 a. m. We had no visitors from the Gen-
eral Board. President Elizabeth Layton and
counselors and all members of the Stake
Board present; also Stake President An-
drew Kimball and Counselors, members of
High Council, Patriarchs Claridge and Bar-
ney, and a number of Bishops from the dif-
ferent wards, which was quite an encourag-
ing feature. The morning singing was con-
gregational and the time spent in executing
the business part of the program.
	First Counselor Selena Phillips, who was
in charge, welcomed the sisters; hoped they
would gain renewed courage and interest in
attending our conferences, for there is so
much we can do to build ourselves up in the
work of the Lord. Spoke of utilizing our
spare moments in reading and informing
our minds on the various subjects which will
fit us to perform our parts in life.
	Reports, written and verbal, from several
of the wards were given, and a solo “At
Last” was beautifully rendered by Sister
Effie Montierth. Reports resumed, all
showing fairly good work done along the
lines of Relief activities.
	Sister Mary K. Taylor spoke by way of
encouragement to the teachers, explaining
the duties of this high calling, and urged
that they magnify their work along this
line. Said they should seek to understand
the principles of the Gospel, for we cannot
give what we do not possess. Said they
should seek the Lord in earnest prayer to be
inspired as to what is most needed in the
homes they visit. Their work is also to
relieve the needy, to comfort the mourners,
and in all things seek to do that which
tends to better and higher conditions in life
among the Saints. Said we must put forth
every effort to have all the married sisters
enrolled in the Relief Society.
	Sister Josephine Kimball, who recently
visited the Franklin Ward, which is about
sixty miles away, reported the Society in a
very prosperous condition, the sisters feeling
well in their work, their meetings resumed
after a siege of sickness, and a determina-
tion on their part to do better and more
efficient work. Had held a re-union and
entertainment by which they had replenished
their funds. All felt well and an enjoyable
time was had.
	The Stake Relief Society officers were
presented and unanimously sustained. Sis-
ter Alice Pace was added to the Board.
Meeting was adjourned until 2 p. m.
	Singing, “Zion prospers, all is well.”
	Benediction was pronounced by Laura
Barney.
	Conference was resumed at 2 p. m. The
session was held in connection with the reg-
ular Sabbath services. The choir sang some

[Column 2]
beautiful hymns and anthems, and a solo
was given by Sister Lottie Larson. Invoca-
tion was offered by Elder A. Barney, and
benediction was pronounced by President
John F. Nash. After the administration of
the sacrament, the meeting was given over
to the sisters and conference was resumed.
	The statistical and financial report for
the year of 1912 was read, showing an in-
crease in attendance at the meetings.
Through the efforts of the sisters a new
steel elevator has been built, with a capacity
of one thousand bushels, and in which they
have stored four hundred and fifty bushels
of wheat. A great deal of charity work
has been accomplished, not alone among our
own people, but the refugees from Mexico
have been gladly assisted in many ways.
	President C. M. Layton advised that, if
possible, the wheat now stored be disposed
of for cash, and when next harvest time
comes, fill the elevator with wheat of a su-
perior quality. Felt that the sisters were
doing a good work, and that the attendance
was equal to or better than the attendance
of any organization in the Stake. Urged
young mothers to join the society, and get
the good from it which is given in the dif-
ferent subjects taught. We should not
slacken our efforts to make our societies the
best in the world.
	Second Counselor Frances Kimball gave
a talk on the education of our girls—the
true education—wherein they might be
taught their high and holy mission which
they were sent on earth to perform, that of
the sacredness of motherhood. Deplored
the fact that the shrinking from this respon-
sibility was gaining ground among our Lat-
ter-day Saint girls. Showed the sin of this
evil and strongly urged mothers to teach
their daughters that no mission could equal
that of bringing into the world those spirits
held in reserve in the spirit world, which
God has ordained to assist in the consumma-
tion of this great latter-day work. Thought
we should be more conservative in our dress,
amusements, food, etc.
	Sister Emma B. Coleman spoke of our
several duties as Latter-day Saints, as mem-
bers of the Relief Society, and as mothers
in Israel. Said if we taught our children
to live and love the Gospel while they are
young, when they grow up, though they
might possibly stray away for a time, they
will have something to remember and event-
ually come back to, while those who have
been neglected, have nothing to remember
with love, and may never come back.
	A recitation, “What has she done? and
the reply,” was given by Sister Emma Mer-
rill.
	President Andrew Kimball read an “Anti-
cigarette bill,” now being discussed in the
Legislature and likely to become a law, and
made comment thereon. This has been got-
ten up mostly through the influence of the
Parents’ Class of the Sunday School, and
hoped that the efforts put forth would not
be in vain. Spoke of tithing and obedience

[Column 3]
to the Priesthood. Said no Board has a
right to change, add to or take from their
officers without the advice and consent of
those placed over them. Each Society
should have credit for their public work,
for waiting on the sick and attending to the
dressing of the dead. Advised that there be
a sufficient number on the Board to visit
every Society once a month or often-
er. Prayed God to bless all engaged in Re-
lief Society work.
	President E. W. Layton made closing re-
marks, thanking all for their attendance and
the choir for their beautiful singing. An-
nounced that conference would be adjourned
for six months.
		JOSEPHINE CLUFF KIMBALL.
						Stake Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.
ANN OLIVER YOUNG, A HANDCART VETERAN.
	Mrs. Ann Oliver Young, widow of the late
“Uncle” John Young, eldest brother of Presi-
dent Brigham Young, died Dec. 24, at 9:30
a. m. at the home of her brother, Samuel Oliver
in East Mill Creek.
	Mrs. Young was born Sept. 26th, 1832, at
Whaddon, Cambridgeshire, England. She be-
came a member of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints in 1851; in 1856, she emi-
grated to Utah in one of the hand-cart com-
panies of that year, arriving here in Septem-
ber. In 1857, she was married to John Young
and continued to reside in Salt Lake City until
1873, when she moved to East Mill Creek and
took up her residence with her brother, Samuel
Oliver. “Aunt” Ann was a consistent Latter-
day Saint and proved faithful to every obliga-
tion. Of a modest and retiring disposition,
she rarely spoke of the trials and hardships
through which she passed during the early set-
tlement of Utah. Her passing removes an-
other of the hand-cart veterans, whose heroic
fortitude is an inspiration to those who are
acquainted with this portion of the history of
the Latter-day Saints.
	Mrs. Young had no children of her own, but
has been a mother to the seven children of
her brother, Samuel Oliver, who were deprived
of a mother’s care at an early age. These, with
the nine grandchildren, have been her constant
care.


“THY WILL BE DONE.”
’Tis true in life we oft must yearn—
	Wail o’er an infant’s empty cot;
Some go away that ne’er return.
	But O, the home is ne’er forgot.
We weep when God our loved one calls,
	’Mid falling tears we yield him up;
We tremble when the cold sod falls
	And we must drink the bitter cup.
Some at the altar we must leave,
	Yield unto man the love we prize;
And pray they ne’er may rue or grieve,
	While tears that blister fill our eyes.
Why cannot we be more content—
	Our God gave, He may take away;
Disguised sometimes are blessings sent,
	O say “Thy will be done” alway.
					LYDIA D. ALDER.


R. K. THOMAS CO.,		67-69 MAIN STREET,
						SALT LAKE CITY.
	The most becoming Styles in Ladies’
	Suits, Coats, Dresses, Skirts, and
	Waists at Popular Prices.
THE STORE WHERE YOU CAN FEEL AT HOME


<Marilla M. Daniels>
					WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
		The Organ of the Latter-day Saints’ Woman’s Relief Society.
