Vol. 41		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER, 1912		No. 3.


CONTENTS.
In Memoriam..........Annie Wells Cannon	17
Thanksgiving Half a Century Ago..........
	..........................................Aunt Em	19
A Puritan Village ....................................	22
Notes About Women...............................	24
Household Hints .....................................	24
Relief Society Reports—
	Bear Lake Stake...............................	18
	South Sanpete Stake........................	23
	Duchesne Stake...............................	24
	Wasatch Stake..................................	24
Editorial—
	Important Step in Relief Society Or-
		ganization.................................	20
	The Election.....................................	20
	Four More States for Suffrage.........	21
	Self-Sacrifice....Lillian H. Anderson	21
	Correspondence......Sarah E. Russell	21
Poetry—
	Thanksgiving Day............................
	.................Augusta Joyce Crocheron	17
	Changes............................................	17
	Consolation....Maud Ellen Baggarly	19


THANKSGIVING DAY.
O’er all the land, wherever waved
	Our starry flag, the call has sped,
And over calm or roughest seas,
	To continents and isles has fled,
On lightning’s wings into the hearts
	That know and love its meaning well;
No matter what the scene, or where
	Our country’s sons and daughters dwell.

Upon that day there shall arise
	As light spreads over all the earth,
Like incense, to His throne their prayers
	For this dear land that gave them birth;
And joy and gratitude for all
	Its bounteous harvest and its peace,
Its wastes that wake to industries,
	Where manhood’s worth and power increase.

Frugal and plain in dress and face,
	Those Pilgrims kept this holiday,
Remembering how His guidance brought
	Them through the trackless, stormy way;
How, from strange foes, their lives were
		spared,
	How the stern wastes their labors blessed;
And, consecrated to their God,
	Their lives as He should use them best.

And God, in answer to their faith,
	So blessed them that but prophet’s eyes,
Could have foreseen what yet should come;
	That like a beacon should arise
The government and laws inspired;
	How older nations yet should see
Its flag in every land, and all
	Should reverence its majesty.

And ’neath its mighty, sheltering care,
	Freedom to worship found at last
The true path back to that high Source
	From whence life’s wand’ring steps had passed.
Thanksgiving! for our own dear land,
	Thanksgiving! For the Truth we’ve found,
And, help us Lord, that our life’s work
	Shall make the whole earth Freedom’s
		ground.
					Augusta Joyce Crocheron.
Salt Lake City,
	Nov. 15, 1912.


CHANGES.
Rejoice, O grieving heart!
	The hours fly fast;
With each some shadow flies,
With each some sorrow dies,
	Until at last
The red dawn in the east
Bids weary night depart,
	And pain is past,
Rejoice, then, grieving heart,
	The hours fly fast!
				—Selected.


[Column 1]&nbsp;[Image with the caption “JANE SNYDER RICHARDS.”
		IN MEMORIAM.
The harp strings may be shattered
And the rose leaves may be scattered,
	But the memory remaineth,
And the love that we have cherished
And the hope that we have nourished
	The immortal soul retaineth.
						—E. B. W.
	It matters not how long one may expect
death when the final summons comes there
is always something of a shock and a heart
throb not anticipated. So, though we had
known for some time of the illness of our
dearly beloved Sister Richards, still when
the word came that she had passed through
the portal of death it brought with it a
feeling of loneliness and of sorrow. A flood
of reminiscences passes before one’s mind
awaking thoughts of all that noble band of
pioneer Relief Society workers of which
Sister Richards was almost the last. Few
women can look back along the years with
such a record of worthy deeds as Sister
Jane Richards. A member of the Relief
Society in Nauvoo Sister Richards con-
tinued from that time on in the great work
of helping the distressed. She knew no place
to draw the line when there was a call for
help. She surely lived with the spirit of
Relief Society work ever in her heart and
with untiring and gentle zeal ministered to
the wants of thousands; she clothed the
naked, fed the hungry, comforted the dis-
tressed, admonished the erring and up-
braided not. The stranger ever found a
welcome within her home. She lived a life
of unbounded charity, truly one of God’s
noble daughters, who tried to the utmost to
do the Father’s bidding and forgot not the
commandment “Love thy neighbor as thy-
self.” Her name is held in loving remem-
brance by all those who worked with her

[Column 2]
and as has been written by one of her
friends, “In the community where she lived
her very name is held in reverence and es-
teem for her noble qualities of heart and
mind and the great good she has accom-
plished.”
	Jane Snyder Richards was born January
31, 1823, at Pamelia, Jefferson County, New
York. She was the daughter of Isaac and
Louisa Comstock Snyder, the former a na-
tive of Vermont, the latter of Massachu-
setts. Early in 1834 while living at East
Camden in the province of Ontario, Can-
ada, the Snyder family heard the gospel
preached by a traveling missionary and two
of the family, a brother and sister, were
converted. The brother visited Kirtland,
where he met the Prophet Joseph Smith,
and was afterwards sent as a missionary
among his own people and succeeded in con-
verting his father’s household. The Snyder
home became an open house for the mis-
sionaries and among them came the young
elder, Franklin D. Richards, whom the
young daughter, Jane, married in December,
1842, taking up their abode in Nauvoo. In
the first record of the Relief Society is writ-
ten the name of Jane S. Richards being ad-
mitted to membership at that memorable
meeting in 1844, where Emma Smith read
an epistle on Innocence. This was held
in April prior to the martyrdom of the
prophet, and was the last meeting of
which there is any record held in
Nauvoo. The Richards family left
Nauvoo in 1846 with the rest of the Saints,
enduring with them the trials and hardships
ncident to that historic exodus, but even
before reaching Winter Quarters the young
wife was called upon for another trial, her
husband having been called to Europe on a
mission and leaving his family on the way
to an unknown land. Twenty days after
his departure she gave birth to a son who
only lived a few days.
	Mrs. Richards remained at Winter Quar-
ters until 1848 when her husband returned
from England and together they proceeded
on their western pilgrimage, reaching the
valley in October of that year. Brother
Richards fulfilled a second mission to Eng-
land in 1856 and again this brave little
woman was left with great responsibilities,
in which, however, she proved her strength
of character and fortitude.
	The old Richards home in the Fourteenth
ward was for many years a landmark, being
one of the finest and most pretentious of
residences in the city, and it was the scene
of many splendid entertainments, the hos-
pitality of the owners being proverbial. In
1867 Apostle Franklin D. Richards was
called by President Young to settle in Og-
den and look after the building up of the
Weber stake of Zion. It was at this time
that Sister Richards began her active work
in the Relief Society cause, which never
flagged nor waned until forced to give it
up on account of failing health the last few
years of her life, though even then, when
unable to do the practical work, her interest
in the cause never ceased.


[Column 1]
	Her calling to the stake presidency of the
Relief Societies of the Weber stake marks
an epoch in Relief Society history. She
was the first stake woman officer in the
Church. The story has often been told of
that splendid gathering of the women of
Weber stake in the Ogden Tabernacle,
called by Sister Richards and attended by
President Brigham Young, Counselor
Daniel H. Wells, Franklin D. Richards and
many members of the Priesthood, Eliza R.
Snow, Emmeline B. Wells and other sisters
from Salt Lake City. Mrs. Richards pre-
sided and made a report of work done in the
different wards of Weber stake, both in the
Relief Society and the Young Ladies’ Re-
trenchment Association. President Young,
after complimenting Sister Richards on her
labors among the women and giving most
splendid instruction about the work required
of them, appointed Sister Richards to pre-
side over all the Latter-day Saint women in
Weber stake. This appointment was the
initiative in stake work among the women’s
organizations.
	Sister Richards held that position for a
period of over thirty-one years, when she
was honorably released upon the division of
the Weber stake, out of which three new
stakes were formed. In company with her
husband, she was many times a member of
President Young’s party traveling through-
out the different stakes of Zion and assisted
in organizing different societies and instruct-
ing the sisters along their lines of work.
Upon the death of Eliza R. Snow, when the
General Relief Society was reorganized,
Sister Richards became first counselor to
Zina D. H. Young, the new president. This
position necessitated frequent visits to Salt
Lake City to hold meetings of the general
officers, and many long trips throughout the
different stakes, attending conferences and
doing organization work, which work, how-
ever, she carried through most faithfully,
notwithstanding she still performed her ar-
duous labors as a stake president. Sister
Richards was a member of the board of
directors of the Deseret Hospital and en-
gaged actively in all the moves for develop-
ment in the Relief Society cause. She was
instrumental in the incorporation of the
Relief Society and its affiliation with the
National Council of Women, which oc-
curred in 1891 soon after the visit to Wash-
ington of Mrs. Richards, Mrs. E. B. Wells,
Sarah M. Kimball and other notable Utah
women.
	Sister Jane Richards was a woman of
rare executive ability, an evidence of which
is the erection of the splendid stake Relief
Society building in Ogden city, built with
means raised by the women of the society
and used for purposes connected with their
work.
	She has held many important positions
among women and was recognized wher-
ever she went as a woman of strong per-
sonality and unusual ability.
	Notwithstanding her active and untiring
labor along charity, social and public lines,
her home was always the great center of her
best thought, and the loving tenderness she
extended to humanity was emphasized be-
yond expression in her home circle. Her
husband and children found no lack of at-
tention or devotion, but on the other hand,
had every desire anticipated, every attention
supplied. Her loyalty to her own home was
unexcelled with it all was the overwhelm-
ing power of divine faith in God’s work

[Column 2]
which actuated every act of this most hon-
ored and beloved mother in Israel.
	The last few years Sister Richards has
lived in retirement at the home of her most
devoted and attentive daughter, Mrs. Jose-
phine West. She has occasionally had visits
from loved friends and co-workers to whom
she has given many kind words to help them
on their way, but she has frequently said
she was ready to go when the summons
came. She passed away on Sunday after-
noon at a quarter to three. One cannot call
it death, so natural and beautiful is the last
sleep when so fully and gloriously has been
rounded out life’s measure. The following
beautiful verse by Sister Nellie Becraft,
one of Sister Richards’ stake officers, writ-
ten in honor of her eighty-seventh birthday,
fittingly portrays the last scene of her life in
touching words:

“And as the twilight deepens and the shadows
	closer creep,
May the  angels chant thee vespers while they
	their vigils keep,
And may thy King, thy Priest, thy Lord await
	thee by the shore,
To lead thee to celestial joys with Christ forever-
	more.

	More honor could not be shown than was
given Sister Richards in the large assem-
blage which gathered to pay their last re-
spects to her on the occasion of her funeral
which took place Wednesday, November
20th, in the Ogden Tabernacle. A
large number of friends and relatives from
Salt Lake City, Logan, Farmington, and
other places joined those of the Weber
stake, bringing with them tokens of love
and sympathy in floral offerings and tender
expressions.
	The speakers at the funeral were Presi-
dent Joseph F. Smith, Charles W. Penrose,
David O. McKay, Emmeline B. Wells,
Patriarch McKay, Bishop McQuarrie and
Sister Rebecca Monch, all of whom spoke
of the good and faithful work of Sister
Richards with great feeling and eloquence.
	President Smith’s beautiful tribute to her
motherhood in his reference to her noble
and loved posterity was most touching. Her
life will always be an inspiration not only
to those who call her mother but to hun-
dreds of those who have received from her
bounty her love and her wise counsel, and
to those who will yet learn of her good
works, for like those other great women of
the Latter-day work, her deeds will live
after her and not only her own children but
the children of the Saints “will arise and
call her blessed.”
		ANNIE WELLS CANNON.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT.
		BEAR LAKE STAKE.
	Minutes of the Bear Lake stake. Con-
ference was held in the tabernacle at Paris,
August 18, 1912, 10 a. m. President N. E
Pugmire presiding. Sisters McLelland
and Davis of the General Board, with Presi-
dent J. R. Shepherd and President William
Budge were in attendance. Opened by sing-
ing “Guide Us O Thou Great Jehovah.”
Prayer by Bishop Lindsay of Ovid. Sing-
ing, “O, Say What Is Truth” Reports by
presidents. Sister Davis spoke on mothers.
Everything depends on mother, so how
careful we should be in our training; then
told the proper way of dressing for the

[Column 2]
Temple. Sister McLelland was delighted
to hear our reports and felt proud of our
beautiful building; related how she was able
to cheer and comfort a poor family. The
Prophet Joseph Smith has turned the key
for woman’s work; our work is pioneer
work. It is proper for the Relief Societies
to have clothes on hand for the dead. The
Lord makes us strong when we are trying
to do our duty. Related the way of laying
away our dead; spoke of the eight-hour law 
for women and girls; should not be extrav-
agant, but be consistent Latter-day Saints.
Meeting was brought to a close by singing
“O Jesus, the Giver.” Benediction by Coun-
selor Amelia Hoge.
	Dinner partaken of at Unity Cottage.
	Afternoon Session—Commenced at 2 p.
m., President N. E. Pugmire presiding.
Opened by singing “Count Your Many
Blessings.” Prayer by President W. Budge.
Singing “I Need Thee Every Hour.” Rep-
resentative Clark read a beautiful paper,
“Influence of Woman, and to My Son.”
Sister Davis said, shrink not from your duty
however unpleasant, but follow your Savior,
your pattern and friend. There are so many
temptations placed before our young, “I
Need Thee Every Hour;” do we keep the
Word of Wisdom? If we want the blessings
of the Lord we must keep His command-
ments. Set the right kind of an example
when we go through the Temple, follow in
the footsteps of our Savior, love our neigh-
bor as ourselves; read a letter from Presi-
dent Joseph F. Smith on the way we should
do when going through the Temple; quoted
“I must do my duty because my parents
trust me,” and not yield to temptation; we
profess to be the best people on earth; we
teach Faith, Repentance, and Baptism. Let
our influence for good be felt. Our parents
have pioneered this country and when we
marry let it be in the right way. A song by
Brother Russell Shepherd entitled, “The
Great Redeemer Came.” Sister McLelland
followed. How fine it is to hear the beau-
tiful; we have 64 stakes and talent is ex-
hibited in each place. The young boys and
girls of today are our representatives of the
future.
	Professor Brimhall says that the experi-
ence of our Pioneers is becoming as fairy
tales to our children, but we should not let
things get away from us, let us be worthy
of all the good things said of us; when we
tell the outside people how independent our
women are, they wonder. Spoke of meet-
ing some of our Lamanite brethren and sis-
ters. We all have our own salvation to
gain. Read the testimony of our beloved
Prophet Joseph when a young man to the
world. Such a feast we have had today.
	President Joseph R. Shepherd said we
have had a beautiful time. No association
does more to help the bishops than do our
Relief Societies. While listening to reports,
how all have money drawing interest, think
they are good financiers, but think it is good
for us to have wheat on hand properly cared
for, in time of need; believe our Relief So-
cieties are doing much good in this stake.
Counselor Amy Cook was honorably re-
leased with a vote of thanks, and Sister
Millie Clark was then voted in as second
counselor in the Bear Lake Stake Relief
Society. The conference was then ad-
journed for another year after singing and
prayer.
				LOUISE TUELLER,
					Stake Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
THANKSGIVING DAY HALF A CEN-
			TURY AGO.
	More than half a century ago in a small
New England village where there was only
one “Church” and that was called a meet-
ing house, because to the old-style Puritans,
Church meant the Church of England, from
which their forefathers were dissenters,
Thanksgiving was a state occasion, with all
the ceremonials such a day implied. The
meeting house was decorated with ever-
greens from the woods near by, pine
branches, and hemlock boughs, and long
trailing vines, that keep fresh under the
thick carpet of fallen leaves, with the scarlet
red berries that give such warmth and tone
to the more somber, everlasting green; not
only the public places were thus ornamented,
but the dwelling houses of the villagers; but
here one also finds a variety of late autumn
and winter flowers; and plenty of good sub-
stantial well-cooked food, for notwithstand-
ing the widely-diffused religious sentiment,
there are festivities afterwards, and plenty
of feasting. The public service in the meet-
ing-house begun usually at eleven o’clock
a. m., and it was always special; the morn-
ing was observed as sanctimoniously as if
it was the Sabbath, by the Puritans, but
when meeting was over, there was a change,
even in the minister’s family.
	The service in the village meeting-house
on the particular day alluded to here, was 
very imposing for a small village; the treble
and alto singers were all in white, with pale
green ribbon and white chrysanthemums,
one would suppose to harmonize with the
decorations; the bass and tenor wore their
usual Sunday suits with a knot of green
ribbon in a button hole of their vests; a
village Yankee, of the male persuasion,

[Column 2]
would not have thought of wearing a flower
in meeting, those were only for girls and
women folks; at this remote date the writer
has not the least remembrance of the ser-
mon, (singers rarely do have), but the an-
them which had been practiced so long be-
forehand one never forgets—and this one
was “Lift up your heads, Ye Everlasting
gates—And let the King of Glory in, Who
is the King of Glory,” and so forth;—but
this is of little consequence compared to
other things, that transpired on such event-
ful days. In these rural villages one gen-
erally knows what is going on in other peo-
ple’s houses, even, though not clairvoyant,
to the details of the dinner; but enough
transpired in one house to make this sketch
sufficiently long, and to give an idea of the
olden time, when those who are grand-
mothers today were barely in their ’teens.
	Let me picture an old rambling house,
with low ceilings and great open fire-places,
and high mantel pieces, full to running over
with children, breathless with playing games
—and with calling to one another, from
garret to cellar—running about with ginger-
bread and maple sugar, eating all day long,
and upsetting the whole house, filling it with
noise and scattering crumbs and dirt over
the well-kept floors and furniture. All the
scolding and fretting of young Mamas’ and
Aunties’ of no avail—while sedate and dig-
nified the older members of the family
looked on and took no note of the uproar,
except to say now and then “let the little
ones alone, they are having their fun now.”
	Thanksgiving dinner, at a long table, in
a great square living room, with all the
homely characteristics of the time, passed off
pleasantly; of the many expected, almost
all were present; married sons and daugh-
ters with their children, and the young boys
and girls of this large family; all dressed
for the occasion and in the gayest of spirits
apparently, and yet there was somehow a
tinge of subdued melancholy, only percepti-
ble to those of prophetic temperament. The
day wore away, the children tired out with
play, were put in bed and the older mem-
bers grouped around the huge glowing fire
of pine knots, the blaze flickering and glim-
mering in the great square room, casting
dark shadows in the corners, and against
the paneling, making one feel that such is
an hour adapted specially to telling weird
stories, and singing sentimental songs.
Plenty of stories were told of adventure, of
wonderful escapes, by sea, and by land,
stories of the ships that went down, and
soldiers killed in battle, ghost stories and
tales of haunted houses, real and imaginary
intermingled with songs such as “Black
Eyed Susan,” “The Soldier’s Tear,” “The
Soldier’s Dream,” and many a characteristic
love song as well.
	Midnight found them all sitting singing
around the dying embers, the pale light of
the lamps only revealed paler faces, for they
were well aware that on the morrow they
must separate, and naturally the thought
comes, “When shall we all meet again?”
which was suggested in trembling accents
by the mother of this large family—but try
as they would and did, they could not quite
suppress the saddened feeling that came
after this comparatively happy day. And
would it have been even comparatively so,
if either one could have peered into the
future? Alas, no! Of all that met on that
Thanksgiving day, the few who still remain
are widely scattered, having but little in

[Column 3]
common, save the remembrance of child-
hood and early life, and the tie of kindred
which is never quite dissolved however far
apart lives are divided.
	Some have fallen asleep to wake no more
in this world, and some now far advanced
in years—live on in a green old age peace-
fully awaiting the summons which comes
alike to rich and poor, high and low. Two
brave stalwart men (one only a baby then)
gave their lives to their country, and died
on the battlefield, in the Civil War. Others
more fortunate (perhaps) were wounded
and suffered pain, and hardship, but still
live to tell the story of their many encoun-
ters and their well-earned honors. These
were the young men and boys—but what of
the women, and the girls? Scattered, mar-
ried, widowed, some with large families,
and others with small ones, and still others
sleeping the sleep that knows no waking.
Were I to tell you all, it would indeed be a
romance in real life with plenty of incidents,
embellished with the charms that we imagine
only abound in fiction.
	Don’t fancy, however, that all these young
people remained in the Old Bay State—Oh, 
no indeed! They have been to the islands
of the sea, have sailed around the world in
great ships to far off India, and eaten raw
fish on the South Sea Islands, have told us
since of the beautiful long-haired tattooed
women of New Zealand, and of the darker,
stouter, plainer ones of Madagascar. They
do not all believe in one religion, notwith-
standing their Puritanical teaching. Some
are still Congregationalists, however, and
still keep Thanksgiving after the former day 
manner; and others have embraced widely
different faiths.
	But there is a chain known to some of
those who sat around the fireside in that
rambling old house on that Thanksgiving
day in the “long ago” that will bring that
family group and many another together
again in the great future, father, mother,
sons and daughters, with all their numerous
posterity however widely separated, and
whether they have died in foreign lands, or
at home, or even been buried in the depths
of the ocean. And for this precious boon,
the Everlasting Gospel, with its powers and
blessings, on this Thanksgiving day—there
is abundant cause for rejoicing, even though
the house is lonely and the heart sad with
memories of the days that have been, when
happiness and mirth abounded, and sweet
voices, now forever hushed, were wont to
make such music as we shall never know
again on earth, and yet these same sweet
faces we see as ’twere through the mist of 
falling tears, and the voices echo in the
stillness, until we fancy the curtain of the
unseen is lifted, and we are passing into the
unknown.
						AUNT EM.


CONSOLATION.
In Memory of Lane M. Clegg, by Maud Ellen
			Baggarley.
On a far-off, lonely hill-side
	Our babe forever sleeps,
And the sun shines warm on his little bed,
	And angels vigil keep.
But Father, I think of the mother
	Who misses that little head
Which nestled warm on her bosom
	But now is lying dead.
And I grope for Thy purpose, Father,
	But mystery lies between
The familiar things about me
	And the vast and vague unseen.
Yet I know a vision beckons,
	Tho’ ’tis often hid by tears,
And I know that prayer unceasing
	Lights our path through all the years.
But Sorrow sets her seal upon thee,
	Chosen ones of God above,
Linked thou art with realms celestial,
	By a bond of human love;
Human love most high and holy,
	For thou, too, didst give a son.
Tarried thou within “the garden,”
	Knowest now the crowned One.
But knowledge lights the path of duty,
	And thy mission now is plain,
By the little child that leads thee,
	Go thou forth to ease the pain
Of the suffering world about thee,
	Tell them they shall live again.
Thou canst comfort those in sorrow,
	Thou canst whisper, “I have known,”
And shalt garner crowns of amaranth
	From the seeds that thou hast sown.


The movement throughout the world in
the interest of woman suffrage has stirred
the men and women of Russia to give more
thought to the condition of women. The
Douma recently passed a bill entitling
women teachers to almost the same pensions
as men. A bill is pending to provide for the
extension of the personal property rights of
married women and practically insists upon
an equality of the sexes.


20			WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

				Woman’s Exponent

	EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop’s
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City. Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH		-	NOVEMBER, 1912


[Column 1]
	IMPORTANT STEP IN RELIEF SOCI-
		ETY ORGANIZATION.
Counselors Clarissa S. Williams and Julina L.
Smith Visit North Western States Mission.

	For some time past the presidency of the
Relief Society have had in mind the uniting
of the several branches of the Relief Society
in the mission fields under a central head
Similar to the stake organizations. Last
summer, through correspondence with
President Emmeline B. Wells this move
was effected in the Central States Mission
under the direction of Pres. Ellsworth. Mrs.
Ellsworth was appointed president. The
next move was the organization of the
Northwestern States Mission. On the
12th of October Sisters Clarissa S.
Williams and Julina L. Smith accompanied
by Miss Emily Smith left home for Port-
land, Oregon, to hold conference with the
sisters of the Northwestern States Mission
and effect this new organization. Their
trip was most successful in every particular
and will certainly bring splendid results.
The sisters were not only well received
among our own people but the people gener-
ally in the cities they visited paid them hom-
age and recognized the great value of the
work in which they are engaged.
	The Oregon Daily Journal published in
Portland contained a very interesting
article about them and their work besides
printing the pictures of both Sister Williams
and Sister Smith under the heading, “Many
Helped Through Their Kindness.”
	The following is what the Journal says,
excepting for some errors in names which
we have corrected, otherwise the article is
republished in full:

MRS. JOSEPH SMITH AT CONFERENCE—BABY 
	HOME MAY BE LOCATED IN PORTLAND.
	Two noted women, one, Mrs. Julina
Smith, the wife of Joseph F. Smith, head
of the Mormon church, and the other, Mrs.
Clarissa S. Williams, sister to the late
noted John Henry Smith, wife of State Sen-
ator W. N. Williams, came all the way from
Salt Lake City to Portland last week, to
participate with the women of the local
Mormon church in the organization of a
Northwestern States Relief Society.
	These two women, who were accom-
panied by Miss Emily Smith, a daughter
of Joseph F. Smith, attended the several
conferences held last week, at the Mormon
church at East Tenth and Sherman streets,

[Column 2]
and through their efforts, the organization,
which is a branch of the largest and
wealthiest Woman Relief society in the
world, was perfected.

		TO CARE FOR WAIFS.
	Mrs. Williams took the initiative in this
work, and a society, which was at first
thought to be impossible, was perfected. The
object of this society is the relief of the
needy, but special attention is paid to babies
whose parents are destitute or who have
been left parentless and homeless.
	As a result of the visit here and of the
agitation made by these women, a new
baby home may be founded soon in Port-
land by the Mormon church, but not until
after the organization has seen to it that
the baby homes already established here are
able to care for themselves without the aid
of the Mormon society.
	During the conference held here, lectures
were given to the young girls and women
of the church, in which they were urged to
live right, and to take special care of their
dress, so that they need not attract unnec-
essary and uncomplimentary attention.
	The work in that direction will be made
a regular feature of the local society and is
a campaign that is being carried on by all
societies.
	In connection with the charitable work
that is done by this organization it should
be made plain that the women do not con-
fine their efforts to the people of their
church only, although they receive first
attention, but they work in all quarters.
During the visit of the two noted women
in Portland, many calls were made in homes
where it was known that help was needed,
and necessary aid was given.

		OFFICERS ARE NAMED.
	The officers of the new society organized
last week, who were named at the closing
session, are Mrs. Martha J. Ballard, pres-
ident; Mrs. Margaret Sloan, first counselor;
Mrs. Mary Westagard, second counselor;
Mrs. May Carlyle, secretary; Mrs. Ida Day,
treasurer, all of Portland.
	These women will have charge of all the
relief work in the states of Oregon, Wash-
ington, Idaho, Montana, and in British
Columbia, and they will have charge of the
organization of other local societies in var-
ous northwestern cities and towns where
none now exist.
	The new officers of the local organiza-
tion, all of whom were reelected from last
year’s lists, are Mrs. Emma Hawley, pres-
ident; Mrs. Margaret Sloan, first counselor;
Mrs. Mary Hanager, second counselor; Mrs.
Zemona Hawley, secretary; Mrs. Agnes
Crover, assistant secretary, and Mrs. Hattie
Bowers, treasurer. Mrs. Mattie Ballard
was named as assistant to the president.
	Special attention is to be given at once to
the Baby home on Ellsworth avenue, where
contributions of clothes, food and funds
will be made.
	As has been said, this is probably the
wealthiest woman’s relief society in the
world.

	PLAN MEMBERSHIP CAMPAIGN.
	The women make a regular business of
storing wheat as a source of income and
each year they receive donations of thous-
ands of bushels of wheat, which they sell
when the market is highest. The women

[Column 3]
own several very large granaries in Utah.
In case of a great disaster, the wheat is sold
to secure immediate funds, or if necessary
the wheat is shipped to the points where it
is needed.
	It was the Mormon women who sent the
first relief train to San Francisco at the time
of the earthquake, and it was the women of
this church who made the first big wheat
donations to the starving in China. The
attention of the society is now directed to
the sufferers in Mexico, who have been
made victims of the uprisings there. The
membership of this great organization num-
bers more than 30,000. An increase in the
local membership is the object of a cam-
paign to be started here soon.


THE ELECTION.
	After the battle, the reaction. In military
warfare, the first thing after the struggle
and the decision who is the victor comes
the uniting of the forces and the peace
offerings.
	We trust this will be the present effort
after this great political struggle which has
recently swept over the country. The
American people have seldom engaged in an
election where so many issues seemed at
stake and such a division of thought existed,
but the fundamental principles of American
government are such that the people gen-
erally feel whatever political party holds the
reins of power there are always statesmen
enough to steady and control the beating
pulses of the people and lead them into safe
and prosperous channels. Governor Wood-
row Wilson is a statesman, and has proven
in his public career that he is a wise,
conservative and progressive leader, and
while there will necessarily be many great
changes in the administration of affairs, it
is only just to believe that the peace and
prosperity of the nation and the people will
be the first consideration of those who have
been chosen to govern.
	The people themselves have expressed
their choice and placed their trust in the
hands of the Democratic leaders; it now re-
mains to those leaders to prove the trust is
not misplaced. There is one mighty power
that rules all nations and all peoples, and
man is only the instrument in the hands of
God to accomplish His purposes. That the
Constitution of the United States is an in-
spired instrument and the organization of
this great republic was effected by inspired
men has always been the belief of every
Latter-day Saint and He who guided and
directed the great men of the past will also
guide and direct the great men of the pres-
ent and at all times in His own way work
out those problems which to mortal minds
seem incomprehensible.
	After the storm comes the calm. Now
should all parties unite for those methods
which will bring about the best results re-
gardless of past grievances and disappoint-
ments. The people have spoken through
their ballot and have elected Woodrow Wil-
son and his party to hold the reins of
government for the next four years.
Let us hope the people will now work for
the best interests of the nation with a
united effort and a fervent faith that
prosperity and peace may continue to pre-
vail over this great nation.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


CORRESPONDENCE.
AN INTERESTING LETTER FROM OUR GIFTED
	CONTRIBUTOR “HOPE”— NOW A
			MEXICAN REFUGEE.
Mrs. E. B. Wells.
	MY DEAR FRIEND: I have thought of
you and the days of Far West and Nauvoo
many times since that ever-to-be-remem-
bered 31st of July, 1912, when we breathed
a silent farewell to our dear mountain
home; and our little train of wagons and
with our small store of clothes and bedding
started for the railway station, seventeen
miles away. The rising sun was just shin-
ing through the pines as I climbed into our
wagon, the last one to start. I dared not
look back on the dear old home, the trees
and flowers we had loved and tended, the
fattened animals in seeming wonder why
they were not cared for and what the
strange thing meant, with our dear Ben’s
last kiss and “God be with you till we meet
again.” Oh, the hardest part was leaving
our men and boys behind. God alone and
those who passed through that day can
know, and the terrible anxiety of the days
and months that lie between that time and
this.
	Bro. Harris came to me in the after-
noon of Tuesday and the next morning
by seven o’clock, our town was left empty
and desolate, with only a few friendly Mex-
icans, whom we left in tears and with many
expressions of sorrow and regret,—I find
that even the remembrance of that day is
too much for me. So I will not dwell
long upon it; I hope that notes of this


exodus have been kept and that a history
will be written as that of Missouri and Nau-
voo has been. The assurance given that we
would be permitted to return was a help
to me throughout that long trying day.
	We reached the Union depot, El Paso,
at one o’clock in the morning. Bro. Geo.
Sevey met us there, saying as he helped me
down the steps, “Lulu is here too, and has
a room prepared, so do not worry.” We
had no idea of meeting her there, but were
too dazed and weary to even be surprised.
It seemed just the right thing, and surely
she has been a help and comfort in this
time of need. It has been a new experience
for her, hard and trying in many ways but
I do not think she will ever regret it; she
has learned a little of what her grandparents
and her father passed through, in the early
days of the Church, and I trust in blessing
others she will be blessed.
	We remained in El Paso one week, it
being the wish of the brethren to hold the
people as near together as possible, being
strong in the faith and hope that we would
soon be permitted to return, but that hope
and faint prospect failed, and the scattering
abroad began. We came to Blue Water,
while the main body of Chuichupa ward
were removed to Thatcher. The brethren
and sisters have been very kind to us, doing
all they could to help and make us feel at
home. The Bishop is a son of an old time
Mesa friend of ours, Brother C. R. Hakes,
former president of Maricopa stake, Ari-
zona, and he has given us and all refugees
a hearty welcome.
	The letters that come to us from our
friends in Mexico make the tears come.
They long for a word of encouragement and
hope, and there is a heart cry for home and
those from whom they are separated, but
there is a courage and faith that would
not shame that of our forefathers. The
motto of our dear Aunt Zina, “Make the
best of it,” has been theirs. We have been
driven from our hard earned homes, de-
spoiled of earthly possessions, but the hand
of God has been with us, and His power
has saved us from danger and death.
	Our people are sundered and scattered
and there are “winter quarters” in many
lands, but the hand that scattered can
gather again, therein is our hope.
There are few if any but what are strong
in the faith that every word in regard to
the promises and prophecies given of Mex-
co and the mission there will be fulfilled.
	I still cling to the parting words of
Apostle Richards, that the colonies were
there to stay, that it was a part of Zion,
and God could protect us there, but we were
not prepared for this chapter in our lives.
	Pray for us, dear friend, that the time
for our return be not far distant; pray
for stricken Mexico, that the redemption
of her people be not stayed. There are many
good people there, I do not think there is
any enmity in the hearts of those who have
come away against them.
	We miss the papers, the EXPONENT among
the rest, and are not well posted in the news
of the day.
	I hope that all is well with Zion, that the
clouds will be rolled away, and the mission
of the gospel spread abroad in the earth,
until the universal song shall be—
	“Peace on earth, good will to man.”
With love, your friend,
			SARAH E. RUSSELL.


[Column 1]
FOUR MORE STATES FOR SUFFRAGE.
	The last election brought great joy into
the ranks of the suffrage workers, four
states, Kansas, Michigan, Oregon and Ari-
zona, each voting for equal suffrage. The
fact that Michigan has come under the ban-
ner is very gratifying, for it is an opening
in the middle and eastern states which will
certainly have good effect. The progressive
west is rapidly falling in line, and any keen
observer will see that those states where
equal suffrage obtains are the ones making
the most rapid progress in educational and
industrial lines. The earnest and unselfish
work of the women is making itself felt in
all matters pertaining to the uplift and bet-
terment of humanity. It is seen that the 
women give intelligent thought and study
to economics and are endeavoring to obtain
through public sentiment those reforms that
will bring the greatest benefit to the home,
the school, and the commonwealth.
	The National Suffrage Association ex-
pressed their exultation over the recent vic-
tory with a mammoth street parade along
the famous New York street, Fifth Ave-
nue. There were twenty thousand women
in the parade carrying torches, banners, etc.
The procession was thus described by the
Associated Press:
	Twenty thousand cheering and singing
women and men celebrated with a brilliant
parade in this city tonight the recent addi-
tion of four stars to the woman suffrage
flag.
	Through Fifth Avenue a stream of flaring
vermilion lights shone for miles, its course
guided by “votes for women” enthusiasts
from all parts of the country. Each of the
10 “suffrage states” was represented by
women leaders in the equal suffrage move-
ment there. “Ohio, the eleventh” read a
transparency at the head of one of the
divisions.
	When the parade was over, women
mounted platforms and soap boxes in Union
square and for several hours made speeches
for “the cause.” Thousands of persons
crowded about to listen. Several hundred
thousand others had lined Fifth Avenue to
watch the marchers.
	Four floats and a half dozen gold chariots
featured the parade. Each float and chariot
represented one of the 10 suffrage states,
including Kansas, Michigan, Arizona,
and Oregon, where the right to vote was
given to women in the last election. “Kan-
sas for liberty” read a transparency. “Mich-
gan for co-operation,” “Oregon for free-
dom,” and “Arizona for justice” were other
texts.
	A score of women trumpeters braving the
chill night air, wore sweeping white robes
instead of furs and long coats and sounded
the strains of the march from “Aida,” led
the long line. Only a few of the suffrag-
ists, the very elderly among them, rode in
carriages. Nearly every nationality, not ex-
cepting China, was represented.
	Each marcher carried at cane’s-length a
vermilion lantern. In their light a thousand
flags fluttered. “Votes for women,” each
read in black letters. Hundreds of banners
bore other inscriptions.
	“I voted an hour before leaving my
state,” announced a banner carried by Dr.
Maud Parker, of Seattle.
	The young women who represented the
states on the “victory float” were:
	Arizona, Miss Clark Pope; Michigan,

[Column 2]
Miss Fola La Follette, daughter of Senator
La Follette; Oregon, Miss Anna Squire;
and Kansas, Miss Pearl Squire.


SELF-SACRIFICE.
Paper Read at Tooele Relief Society Stake
			Conference.
	This subject is one which appeals to every
mother and it is difficult to establish any
rules which would govern all families con-
cerning the self sacrifice which should be
practiced in an ideal home; first, between
mother or parents and children, and second,
between older and younger children.
	I think that in the majority of homes too
much self sacrifice is expected of the mother.
	The compensation which the mother re-
ceives for the sleepless nights, watchful care,
sympathy and never tiring devotion to her
family, is the love which they give her, and
during the infancy of her children this com-
pensates for all. But as the children grow
older they should learn that true love does
not mean only to tell mother that they love
her, but willing and cheerful obedience, and
sharing the trials and labors of the home
are greater proofs of love than words alone.
	The basis of loving service is found in the
mother who attends to all the needs of her
little ones. Many times her duties would
be disagreeable and irksome if she had to
perform them for a stranger; but all un-
pleasantness is lost in the mother-love.
	The mother’s loving service follows a
child to manhood, and he is never too old
to need her tender care. There is one dan-
ger, that she is apt to wait upon her child
to such an extent that he will think mother’s
only duty is to serve him.
	We have all seen children harsh and cruel
to the most loving mothers.
	It is a strange fact that loving service
does not always command respect and love
in return. In order to truly love, children
must serve as well as be served.
	Why do we sometimes see a husband and
wife unhappy together? One great reason
is that only one of the two serves and the
other one receives.
	In order that both husband and wife love,
they must both serve and sacrifice their in-
clinations and desires for the sake of each
other.
	Sometimes it is necessary for a wife to
sacrifice something she has planned for a
long time, sometimes a recreation, or a habit,
or a pleasure; but if she does so willingly
she does not lose her own pleasure; and in
return the husband will be willing to make
a sacrifice of his pleasure for the wife’s
comfort.
	Love begets love. The love in our hearts
must be kept warm by loving service and
sacrifice, or it dies.
	It is difficult to come to any decision in
regard to what extent self sacrifice should
be practiced between older and younger
children.
	I always feel sorry for an only child in
a family. There is an incomplete develop-
ment where a child has no brothers or sis-
ters, no one to share his play, no one’s
pleasure to consider but his own, and no
chance for self sacrifice to be practiced.
	How pleasant a spirit we find in the home
where the older children are willing to lay
aside a plaything, a doll, or an interesting
story in order to relieve the tired mother of
the care of her baby for a little while, or

(Column 2)
to interest the younger members with a
game or a story.
	It often happens that the youngest mem-
ber of the family demands so much atten-
tion that the older children would have no
time for their own recreation if they yielded
to every demand, but judgment must be
used by the parents lest the little ones be-
come too selfish or willful.
	In a well governed home, each member
of the family, even down to the youngest,
must feel that the home circle is not com-
plete without her.
	To each boy and girl should be assigned
some task, duty and responsibility out of
the many required to keep the household
machinery in good running order.
	They must be made to feel the importance
of their part and to know if they neglect it
trouble and disappointment will follow.
	The training which comes from doing
even one or two things without fail each
day will soon make a boy or girl one to be
trusted and the boys and girls who can be
trusted will make men and women who
are wanted everywhere because they can
be depended upon.
	Many a mother grows old, faded and
feeble long before her time, because her
boys and girls are not thoughtfully consid-
erate and helpful. When they become old
enough to be of service in a household
mother has become so used to doing all
herself, to taking upon her shoulders all the
care, that she forgets to lay off the burden
little by little on those who are so well able
to bear it. It is partly her own fault, to be
sure, but a fault committed out of love and
mistaken kindness for her children.
			LILLIAN H. ANDERSON.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		A PURITAN VILLAGE.
A GLIMPSE OF TOPSFIELD—AN INTERESTING
	TOWN AS YET UNMODERNIZED.
	When the Puritans made their settlement
at Salem, the tribe of Agawam owned the
land bordering on the Atlantic coast be-
tween the Naumkeag and the Merrimac
rivers, and inland as far as Andover. Mas-
conoment, their chief, conveyed the present
towns of Ipswich and Topsfield to John
Winthrop, son of Governor Winthrop, for
£20. Thus sacrificing his beautiful hunting-
grounds, which abounded in game, he be-
came in his later days dependent upon the
colonists. He was buried on Sagamore
Hill in the present town of Hamilton. The
first occupancy of Topsfield by European
settlers dates back to 1635, but its incor-
poration as a town came some years later.
The beautiful broad meadows that border
the Agawam (now called Ipswich) river
first attracted the early settlers of Ipswich
and Salem, and grants of land were given
to John Endicott, Simon Bradstreet, Robert
Paine and others, who formed a settlement
here, to which they gave the name of New
Meadows. The present name of Topsfield,
which might have been suggested by its
hill, was no doubt derived from Toppesfield,
England, from which place many immi-
grants came at an early day and made their
home here. Prominent among these was
a man named Smith, and there are now
extant in the old stone church at Toppes-
field, England, some interesting memorials
of his family; among them one is partic-
ularly noticeable, commemorating the vir-
tues and Christian graces of his mother.
From this mother in Israel through her line
of descendants in this village came Joseph
Smith, the founder of the “Mormon” sect,
and in the village cemetery here is a monu-
ment to the Smith family, erected through
the instrumentality of George A. Smith, a
“Mormon” elder, lately deceased. The old
town of Toppesfield, England, is said to
retain the manners and customs of primitive
times, and is far behind its namesake in
America in population and general intel-
ligence.
	The old Bradstreet farm, probably the
first one laid out in the early township of
New Meadows, covers one of the eastern
hills, its cultivated fields sloping to the broad
meadow at its base. This farm was given
by Governor Bradstreet to his son Simon,
whose descendants, bearing the name of
Bradstreet, occupy an old fashioned home-
stead built close to the original house, which
was only taken down a few years ago.
While Ann Dudley, the poet wife of Gov-
ernor Simon Bradstreet, has transmitted
her genius to some of her descendants
(among whom are Oliver Wendell Holmes
and Richard H. Dana), the benevolent
features and amiable characteristics of her
husband, the old colonial governor, can be
easily traced in some of his descendants in
this village. Anne Bradstreet was a daugh-
ter of that rigid old Puritan, Governor
Thomas Dudley, and every generation since
her time in Topsfield has had a Dudley
Bradstreet among its number, even to the
present occupant of the farm we have men-
tioned. Very few villages of New England
have retained their old-time simplicity as
this one has done. None of the hurry and
bustle of its more enterprising neighbors
have come over these hills. One manu-

[Column 2]
facturer only has gained a foothold, and
even he hesitates to destroy the quiet of
the village by importing foreign laborers,
and only employs the sons and daughters of
his neighbors and friends. No Queen Anne
turreted villa dots hill or plain, and no
summer hotel invites the stranger to this
quiet retreat.
	A strong feature of Topsfield is the
accessibility of all things that make country
life desirable to a lover of nature. No long
dusty roads or toilsome climbing are nec-
essary to put before one the wildest views,
the prettiest dells and the greenest meadows
bordered by grand old oak and hickory
trees. Foot-paths and well-worn stiles, of
which Burroughs laments there are so few
in this country, take you within the shade
of the pines up the hillside to an elevation
where can be seen Newburyport, the hills
of Ipswich, the waters of Pigeon Cove, the
high bluffs of Beverly Shore, and when the
atmosphere is clear, Marblehead and the
harbor of Salem town. From this hill we
look upon the village, with its two church
spires, shady streets, comfortable, farmlike
houses, and upon the Agawam, spanned by
bridges and shaded by overhanging trees
and shrubs. This romantic stream that bows
and bends all the way to the ocean, is like
a little brook during the summer months,
but overflows its banks in the spring and
autumn, turning the outlying meadows
into a broad, smooth lake. In the west are
the Andover hills, and beyond stretch other
ranges, with Monadnoc and Wachusett
dimly outlined on the horizon. In the center
of the village is a wide common, intersected
by paths shaded by elms and bordered by
two churches, the town hall and two old
colonial houses, built by the Emersons in the
best style of architecture of a hundred years
ago, giving a grand and gracious air to
this inland town. An ancient house still
stands near the common, built with an over-
hanging upper story for protection from the
Indians. There is no record of its age, but
it is supposed to have stood at least two
hundred and twenty years, and has few
companions left anywhere in New England.
It was the home of Rev. Joseph Capen, the
first minister of Topsfield, who came here
from Dorchester in the middle of the sev-
enteenth century. Rev. John Emerson suc-
ceeded Mr. Capen, and in his long min-
stry of forty-six years, though often de-
prived of his meager salary, managed to
amass fifty thousand dollars, a large fortune
for those days. He was a brother of Rev.
Joseph Emerson, from whom came the Con-
cord branch. The Rev. Joseph was spiritu-
ally minded, never counting the things of
this world, and he ceased to hold friendly
and brotherly communion with John, who
he thought was too much engrossed in
worldly affairs. The colonial houses were
built by descendants of Parson John, and
two years ago, when one became the
property of the Congregational church, to
be used as a parsonage, lilac trees over
eighty years old, that had been the pride
and delight of a former generation, were
cut to the ground, thus in some measure
destroying the ideality of this village. We
are reminded of the poet Longfellow, who
never wished to leave his home in Cam-
bridge when the lilacs were in bloom.
	This village, like Salem and Danvers, suf-
fered from the witchcraft delusion. Two
women—Mary Eastey and Sarah Wildes—
were dragged from their homes and hung on


Witch’s hill, while another—Abigail Hobbs
—was condemned to die, but was finally
pardoned. Mary Eastey and the well-
known Rebecca Nourse were sisters, daugh-
ters of William Town of Topsfield, who
settled here as early as 1635. All these
women had led exemplary lives, were strong
in the Christian faith, with a native sweet-
ness of disposition that endeared them to
their families and friends. They became
shining marks for this most cruel persecu-
tion, but their memory is still treasured,
and their eloquent appeals for justice and
mercy have not failed to find a place in the
hearts of the generations that have fol-
lowed them.
	The study of geology and botany is be-
coming very popular throughout Essex
county. Many of the smaller towns and
villages have organized clubs through
the influence of the famous Essex Institute
which has its headquarters at Salem. Some
of the towns have exhibited fine collections
of wild flowers at the annual fairs of this
county, and Topsfield ought to send of its
abundance, for the flora of the village and
its vicinity is rich. The meadows, from
early spring until midsummer, present a
succession of vivid colors from the multi-
tude and variety of wild flowers. Before
the roadside grass is green, and while the
buds are yet swelling on the trees, the cow-
slips or meadow buttercups, or marshmal-
lows, as they are frequently called, stretch
up their vigorous yellow bloom out of the
watery hillocks, that ooze and sputter at
the lightest weight. The painted cups then
follow, whose petals shade from green to
the brightest red, forming a score or more
of clustering cups, that draw the water
through their hollow stems and drop it
from the brim. Bryant sings in praise of
this flower, which is rarely found in New
England—

“Scarlet tufts are glowing in the green, like lakes
	of fire!”

	The wanderers of the prairie know them
well, and call that flower “the painted cup.”
Then come the dark red trilium and the
white buck bean, the thickly strewn pur-
plish red blossoms of the pitchers, the
“jacks,” with their lords and ladies, and
the white azalea, rich in fragrance. The last
of the spring production is the arethusa, with
its variegated lip and bright pink petals,
the most fascinating, delicate and delusive
of all the water plants, for it hides itself in
the most inaccessible places. The highways
and fields are covered with bloodroot,
anemones, violets, brown and blue, the dog-
tooth violet, nodding daintily on its stem,
blue hepatica, red columbine, the stately
slipper and the cardinal flower. In October,
the blue fringed gentian is often found
by their side. The woods contain fine speci-
mens of ferns that have attracted the at-
tention of botanists. The delicate brown
fern, so often in demand for herbariums,
is a native of these woods.
	The birds in Topsfield are of brilliant
plumage, and many varieties that have not
visited their old home for years, having
been driven away, it is said, by those
troublesome English sparrows, are now re-
turning in great numbers. Among them
the scarlet tanager and the gayly colored
grosbeck occasionally flash before us as
we pass through the wood, while yellow
birds, the little brown thrush, bluebirds in

[Column 2]
variety, and hosts of golden orioles, swing-
ing in their nests, are seen daily before our
doors. To appreciate the most beautiful
sounds of the country one should take an
early flight from the city. Come with the
cowslips and robins. In no other way can
the infinite variety of pleasures and sur-
prises afforded by the lavishness of nature
be fully realized.
	Practically, life in Topsfield is one of
general prosperity. “The poor ye have
always with you” scarcely applies to this
village, for even the poor farm has less
than six occupants. This farm is pleasantly
situated, and is one of the most produc-
tive in the town. They have an annex for
the “walking gentry,” commonly called
tramps, who lodge and are fed at the town’s
expense. Coffee was formerly furnished
them with their bread, but at one time so
many availed themselves of this generous
provision that water was substituted. The
question of building a separate establish-
ment for these vagrants, at some place
remote from the village, is now under con-
sideration. This will be an additional
grievance to them, as some have already
complained of the present short trip “over
the hills to the poorhouse.” The old acad-
emy, which has been a landmark for many
generations, is quaint and interesting, sit-
uated on an eminence in the heart of the
village.
	The inhabitants of Topsfield follow in
the footsteps of their ancestors, whose
traditions and occupations cling tenaciously
to the soil. The natural surroundings of the
village seem to be a defense against intru-
sion; and we should bless the everlasting
hills that preserve to us a peaceful old-
time village, the fulfillment of the Pur-
tan’s dream.—V. R. in Boston Transcript.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
	NORTH SANPETE STAKE.
	Relief Society conference held in Spring
City July 7, 1912. Opening exercises held
with the Sunday School superintendent,
James Blain, presiding. Singing, “Kind
and Heavenly Father.” Prayer by Brother
John F. Allred. Singing, “When the Mists
Have Cleared Away.”
	Sacrament administered. Primary and
Kindergarten departments adjourned to
their respective rooms. Relief Society
officers in charge; President Ericksen pre-
siding. She felt very grateful to our Heav-
enly Father for the beautiful day, as so
many could be present; was very pleased
to have Sisters Wells and Hyde of the gen-
eral board with us. Minutes of previous
annual conference read, also the financial
and statistical report of the past year was
read. Roll called, showing 131 visiting
officers and members present. Sister Annie
Candland reported the Mt. Pleasant north
ward; were united in their work; financial
conditions good; poor well taken care of.
	Carrie L. Ericksen reported Mt. Pleasant
south ward. Lots of poor in the ward, but
were taken care of. Had sold their wheat
but would buy more in the fall.
	Sarah Fowles reported the Fairview
ward as doing well. All young mothers
in the ward were enrolled in the society; had
a good band of teachers; financial condi-
tions good; were prepared to assist finan-
cially wherever they could, in caring for the

[Column 2]
poor, and assisting the bishop; had a lot of
wheat in granary and it was well cared for;
assisted the bishop in the building of the
meeting house, by gathering Sunday eggs.
	Sister Stewart reported Milburn ward.
Sisters good in their donations and gather-
ing wheat.
	Sister Mary B. Guymon reported the
Fountain Green ward as being in good con-
dition; looked after the sick and poor; kept
up their wheat and made many quilts for
the poor.
	Sister Anna Hardy reported the Moroni
ward as having a fairly good attendance.
All young mothers enrolled in the society
and were a great help; held missionary par-
ties and gathered means for the mission-
aries; had purchased an organ for their hall
and were paying for it by gathering Sunday
eggs.
	Sister E. B. Wells, general president of
Relief Society, was pleased to be present
with the sisters in such a beautiful house.
She had always enjoyed visiting Sanpete;
had visited the wards many years ago; espe-
cially remembered Milburn and Indianola
wards; little wards did great things; had in
company with Eliza R. Snow and others
blessed Indian babies at Indianola. She
was a lover of the Sunday School and loved
children’s voices, because it was sweetest
music. Prophet Joseph Smith loved all
things that were beautiful. President Brig-
ham Young was also a lover of children and
always knew them. As mothers we should
cultivate every taste for the beautiful for
the benefit of our children.
	The work done by the Sunday eggs was a
remarkable thing. The first money donated
for the woman’s building was raised through
the sales of Sunday eggs gathered by Emery
Stake, amount $13.13. The Relief Society
work was a great work, beginning with 18
members, now an enrollment of 45,000. She
asked the children to remember her and
pray for her. The Prophet Joseph loved
the prayers of the children; related the story
of the children holding prayer meeting for
the Prophet when his life was in danger.
	Sister Jennie A. Hyde was proud of her
birthplace. This was her first visit in an
official way; was pleased to see everything
so lovely. She was indeed touched in re-
calling incidents of her younger days. Her
testimony in “Mormonism” was strength-
ened by hearing the speaking in tongues
when a girl; felt the Lord had heard and
answered the prayers offered in behalf of
the sisters; felt very thankful for the assist-
ance received from the sisters of the wards
in gathering means for the different calls
made of them.
	Singing, “There Is Sunshine in My Soul.”
	Benediction, by Sister Lizzie B. Allred.
	Conference reconvened at 2 p. m.
	President Ericksen presiding. Singing,
“Utah, We Love Thee.” Prayer by Bro.
Rasmus Justensen. Singing, anthem by
choir. Sacrament administered. General
and Stake officers were then sustained. A
well prepared talk on the proper observance
of the Sabbath day was given by Sister
Lewellyn of Wales. Song by members of
the Spring City ward. Reading, “Una-
wares,” by Cecelia Olsen.
	Sister Jennie A. Hyde spoke at
length on home manufactures and Utah
products; urged the sisters to take the lead
in this matter to patronize home industries
for the sake of our children and children’s
children; spoke of the ordinances of our


[Column 1]
Church; spoke of the Latter-day Saints hos-
pital and the advantages afforded the young
women to get an education in nursing; en-
couraged more to take up the profession.
Song by Ida Poulsen.
	Sister E. B. Wells spoke of the great
things done by women and the Relief Socie-
ties; encouraged the girls to marry the
right way; spoke of building up libraries,
supplying church works first; explained the
plan of the EXPONENT; the great need of
storing wheat, as great calls were made on
the Relief Society for help from time to
time.
	President C. W. Sorensen was grateful
to be present at the sisters’ conferences;
spoke of Sister Wells’ capabilities at her ad-
vanced age. She certainly had been blessed
in her work.
	Closing remarks by President Ericksen.
Singing, an anthem by the choir.
	Benediction, by Bishop L. O. Larsen.
		FRANCES E. CHRISTENSEN,
						Stake Secretary.
		DUCHESNE STAKE.
	Minutes of conference of the Duchesne
stake held at Roosevelt July 28, 1912, at 10
a. m., President Aroetta Holgate presiding
and conducting the meeting. After the
opening exercises roll call showed 4 stake
officers, 16 ward officers, 8 teachers, 2 vis-
itors, 1 committeeman, and 1 high coun-
cilor present. President Aroetta Holgate
addressed the sisters and reminded them to
put in practice the instructions that had been
given to the Relief Societies at our previous
conference, that is, in getting the young
mothers to join our societies and to sub-
scribe for the EXPONENT. All the wards
were reported by the different presidents as
in a good and prosperous condition. Presi-
dent Aroetta Holgate addressed the sisters
and advised them to continue their efforts
in those directions and get all the young
mothers to join our Relief Society, and
stated that the Prophet Joseph Smith had
once said “that every virtuous woman
should belong to the Relief Society;” she
advised the sisters to follow the plans of
study laid down for them and that they
should have the books needed in their
course of study in their library; requested
the sisters to assist the presiding authority
by their faith and prayers. Relief Society
Committeeman Duncan W. Marchant ad-
dressed the sisters; he said he had enjoyed
his labors and the duty placed upon him;
was sorry more brethren did not sense the
responsibility placed upon the Relief Society
sisters, and that we should live strong in
the faith and do all the good we could.
Counselor Olive Bingham spoke and felt
pleasure with the Relief Society work and
was grateful for the labors taken up with
the young mothers. President Holgate said
that the question had been asked, “Was it
all right to sell a quilt or anything to the
highest cash bidder?” and answered that it
was all right, but not to raffle them. Ques-
tions were asked and discussed by the sis-
ters. Minutes were read and accepted with
three amendments. Singing, “Do What Is
Right.” Benediction by Sister Eva Moffatt.
		AFTERNOON SESSION.
	Minutes of the stake Relief Society con-
ference held at Roosevelt July 28, at 2 p.m.
After the opening exercises and sacrament
the meeting was turned over to the stake

[Column 2]
Relief Society officers. Roll was called,
showing 5 stake officers, 18 ward officers
present. Counselor Olive Bingham gave the
welcoming address and was pleased to see
so many present, and especially the young
mothers, and asked them to come to our
Relief Society meetings and join them.
After the wards were reported by the presi-
dent an address was given by Sister Ida
Kirkham, which was very good and encour-
aging. She said let us always remember the
motto, “Be not weary in well doing.” And
she strongly commended this stake for the
assistance rendered the flood and famine
sufferers, and gave us many good ideas;
told many things they had taken up in their
society in Salt Lake. Lecture by Sister
Eliza Pack, commemorating the Sabbath
Day. Lecture by Sister Alta Cloward, sub-
ject, “Public Health.” President Aroetta
Holgate addressed the congregation, telling
the advancement of the Relief Society and
how it had grown from so few in members
to so many; she requested that each society
provide the books needed in their plan of
study, and to assist the other auxiliary or-
ganizations of the ward when possible. Pres-
ident Wm. H. Smart indorsed the remarks
and reports of the previous speakers and
commended them for the course in trying
to get all the young mothers into our socie-
ties. He said our work was not only spir-
itual but temporal. Conference then ad-
journed.
		WASATCH STAKE.
	The annual conference of the Wasatch
stake Relief Society convened Friday, Aug.
9, 1912, at the stake tabernacle.
	Forenoon Session, 10 a. m.—President
Joannah E. Jensen presiding. Address of
welcome, Joannah E. Jensen. Roll call, all
the stake officers, 11 missionaries, 30 ward
officers, 166 members and a number of
local authorities present.
	Afternoon Session, 2 p. m.—A very in-
teresting program of music, recitations and
addresses was rendered, including an orig-
inal poem called “Aunt Em” by Mrs. Jane
Turner. The program was both instructive
and interesting. The visitors were President
Emmeline B. Wells and First Counselor
Clarissa S. Williams, both of whom made
interesting and instructive remarks. After
the conference a public reception was held.
		CORNELIA C. TIDWELL, Sec.


24		WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NOTES ABOUT WOMEN.
	A few interesting figures about women
of the United States:
	Census of 1910: Women Teachers and
Professors, 327,635.
	Women Physicians and Surgeons, 7,399.
	Women in Trade and Transportation,
481,159.
	Women engaged in Agricultural Pur-
suits, 770,055.
	Women Clerks, Accountants and Stenog-
raphers, 239,077.


Women Clergymen, 7,395.
	Women Lawyers, 1,010.
	Women Journalists, 2,193.
	Women Architects, Designers and Drafts-
men, 1,037.
	Women in the Professions, 429,497.


MAP
	FOR BOOK OF MORMON STUDY
			By Vincy R. Barker
Prepared Especially for Relief Society Classes
		Approved by the General Board
	Designed to give the student a general view
and lasting impression of Book of Mormon
lands from the beginning of Nephite and Jar-
edite history at Jerusalem and Babylon, Asia,
to their close in America.
	With the arrangement of the map of the
World with the Western Hemisphere at the
right we see at once all the countries and the
leading cities involved in Book of Mormon and
early Church history.
	Because of the uncertainty and difference of
opinion existing in regard to the location of
Book of Mormon points only such locations
are made as our leading Book of Mormon stu-
dents seem to harmonize upon, leaving teach-
ers to make minor locations for their own use
according to their own interpretation of the
text.
	Listed upon the map are:
	1st. Authority for all locations made.
	2nd. Under the name of their respective
countries all the cities not located with their
reference in the text and date of first mention.
	3rd. The Hills with reference.
	Large size 24x35 inch, cloth, mounted, $2.00,
per dozen, $20.00.
	Small size, 10x15 inch, paper, 15 cents, per
dozen, $1.25.
	Special terms to Stakes desiring to place
small ones in their outlines and large ones in
Ward Societies.
			VINCY R. BARKER
1144 Washington Ave.			Ogden, Utah

R. K. THOMAS CO.,		67-69 MAIN STREET,
						SALT LAKE CITY
	The most becoming Styles in Ladies’
	Suits, Coats, Dresses, Skirts, and
	Waists at Popular Prices. . . .
THE STORE WHERE YOU CAN FEEL AT HOME


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
	Plum Pudding— 1 lb. of brown sugar, 1 lb. of
suet, 1 lb. of bread crumbs, 1 lb. of raisins, 1
lb. of currants, 1/2 teacup of citron and lemon
peel, 9 eggs, beat whites and yolks separately,
1 pt. of milk, 1/2 oz. each mace, cinnamon and
nice stiff batter. Boil from eight to ten
hours first day, and four to six the day of
using.
	Fruit Cake— 1 lb. flour, 1 lb. sugar, 1lb. but-
ter, 1 doz. eggs beaten separately, 1 lb. raisins,
seeded and chopped, 1 lb. currants washed and
dried, 1/4 lb. lemon peel, sliced thin, 1 lb. in
shell of almonds sliced thin or pounded, 2 nut-
megs, a tablespoonful of cinnamon, 1/2 tea-
spoonful of cloves, a teacup of milk. Beat
sugar, butter and yolks of eggs together, beat
whites to a froth and add last, beat flour in
gradually and other ingredients, stirring a
long time or until thoroughly mixed. Bake in
moderate oven two hours.
	French Cream Cake—1 cup of sugar, 1 1/2
cups of flour, 3 eggs, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking
powder, 2 tablespoonfuls of cold water; bake
in two pie tins, cut open and spread with
custard before entirely cold.
	Cream Filling— Beat with a little milk 2
small tablespoonfuls of corn starch, add 2
eggs, 1 small cup of white sugar; stir into half
a pint of boiling milk, cook in double boiler,
and when nearly done, add one-half cup of
butter; flavor with vanilla or lemon.


<Beaver>
<Mary A. White>
				WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
The Organ of the Latter-day Saints’ Woman’s Relief Society.
