Vol. 41. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH, 1913 No. 6.


CONTENTS.

Hannah C. Wells								

Biographical Sketch							

Roy Ward Relief Society Party					

Relief Society Report—Box Elder Stake				

Editorial—
	Relief Society Day							

	The Legislature							

	Suffragists and Suffragettes					

	The Living Wage							

The Relief Society								

St. Patrick									

Anniversary Day								

Poetry—
	The Loved and Lost						

	March Violets


THE LOVED AND LOST.
The loved and lost! Why do we call them lost?
	Because we miss them from our onward
	road?
God’s unseen angel o’er our pathway crost,
Looked on us all, and loving them the most,
	Straightway relieved them from life’s -weary
		load.

They are not lost; they are within the door
	That shuts out loss and every hurtful thing—
With angels bright, and loved ones gone be
		fore,
In their Redeemer’s presence evermore,
	And God Himself, their Lord, and Judge and
		King.

And this we call a loss! O selfish sorrow 
	Of selfish hearts! O we of little faith;
Let us look round, argument to borrow
Why we in patience should await the morrow 
	That surely must succeed this night of death.

Aye, look upon this dreary desert path,
	The thorns and thistles wheresoe’er we turn;
What trials and what tears, what wrongs and
	wrath;
What struggles and what strife the journey
	hath!
They have escaped from these; and lo! we
	mourn.

Ask the poor sailor, when the wreck is done,
	Who with his treasures strove the shore to
		reach,
While with the raging waves he battled on,
Was it not joy, where every joy seemed gone,
	To see his loved ones landed on the beach?

A poor wayfarer, leading by the hand
	A little child, had halted by the well
To wash from off her feet the clinging sand,
And tell the tired boy of that bright land
	Where, this long journey past, they longed
		to dwell,

When lo! the Lord, who many mansions had,
	Drew near and looked upon the suffering 
		twain,
Then pitying spake, “Give me the little lad;
In strength renewed, and glorious beauty clad,
	I’ll bring him with me when I come again.”

Did she make answer selfishly and wrong—
	“Nay, but the woes I feel he, too, must
		share!”
Or rather, bursting into grateful song,
She went her way rejoicing, and made strong
	To struggle on, since he was freed from care.

We will do likewise, death hath made no breach
	In love and sympathy, in hope and trust,
No outward sign or sound our ears can reach,
But there’s an inward, spiritual speech
	That greets us still, though mortal tongu
		be dust.


It bids us do the work that they laid down—
	Take up the song where they broke off the
strain;
So journeying till we reach the heavenly town,
Where are laid up our treasures and our crown,
	And our lost loved ones will be found again.
—Selected.


[Column 1]
[Picture of a woman above the following text]

HANNAH C. WELLS.
“Oh, thou who dry’st the mourner’s tear
	How dark this world would be,
If when deceived and wounded here,
	We could not fly to Thee!
The friends who in our sunshine live,
	When winter comes, are flown;
And he who has but tears to give
	Must weep those tears alone.
But Thou wilt heal that broken heart
	Which, like the plants that throw
Their fragrance from the wounded part.
	Breathes sweetness out of woe."
	Again it becomes our sad task to record
the death and write for the last time of a
beloved and cherished sister and friend. An-
other devoted and sainted mother in Israel
has gone to her long rest. “Aunt Hannah,”
as most of us loved to call her, lived a long,
good life—more than the allotted time—and
her life’s work was rounded out to com-
pletion. In her home she was a queen,
where loved ones paid her all homage and
the stranger and the friend found alike a
hearty welcome.
	When one has lived so complete a life it
is not well to mourn; but nevertheless there
is a sadness and a loneliness in the heart
with the realization that never more in life
can we behold her, never more clasp the
warm hand nor look into the kindly eyes.
That she is happier is our comfort, that we
shall meet again our consolation.
	Hannah C. Wells was born June 9, 1829,
on her father’s farm in St. Clair county,
Illinois. She died on Thursday morning,
March 6, 1913, at her home, 140 A street,
Salt Lake City. She would have been

[Column 2]
eighty-four years old next June. Her par-
ents were Absalom P. Free and Betsy Strait.
Her father was born in North Carolina and
her mother in Kentucky. They joined the
Church about 1833 and moved to Missouri,
near Far West, in 1836, and were driven
from there by the mob in January, 1839.
Sister Wells’ grandfather, Andrew Free,
and his wife, Mary Pennington, were also
in the Church and passed through the Mis-
souri persecutions.
	It was at Far West that the Prophet
Joseph walked up to her grandfather, whom
he never had seen before, and grasping him
by the hand, said: “Brother Free, you are
a true Ephraimite.” Aunt Hannah remem-
bers seeing the Prophet at Far West, when
she was about seven years of age.
	From St. Clair county, to which place the
family returned from Missouri, except the
grandparents, who died there, they moved
to Nauvoo in 1845, and were expelled from
there in 1846. They made the journey
through Iowa to Winter Quarters, and from
there, in 1848, to Salt Lake valley, traveling
in President Brigham Young’s company.
	Upon this journey Sister Hannah met
President Daniel H. Wells, whom she after-
wards married. There were born to them
eight children, six sons and two daughters.
Of these her oldest daughter, Abbie, and
three sons, Junius F., Gershom B. and Vic-
tor P., survive her.
	Sister Wells’ life was devoted to her
family, though she made several trips with
her husband through the Territory in early
days, and accompanied him on his mission
to England in 1864-5. She later visited her
relatives in Illinois, and as far east as New
York. She also went with members of her
family twice to the Pacific coast. She took
a keen interest in Temple work and offici-
ated for many of her kindred, mostly in the
Salt Lake and Manti temples. She was
called at the opening of the Salt Lake tem-
ple to be one of the workers, holding the
position until her death, though excused
from active labor the last two or three
years, owing to her feeble health.
	She was a suffragist, and always exer-
cised her right to the franchise from the
time it was first given women in Utah.
She was a faithful member of the Relief
Society of the wards in which she lived,
and a woman of charity and hospitality
who ministered to the sick and to the poor
through this society, and always individu-
ally, to those who required her aid. Her
greatest blessing, she often said, was the
gift of faith, which she possessed in a
marked degree. There was never an atom
of doubt that found place in her heart as to
the truth of the Gospel or the authority of
the Holy Priesthood. She knew person-
ally and reverenced all the Presidents and
most of the Apostles of the Church, and her
associates and dearest friends were their
wives and the leading sisters in the Relief
Society, and other Church organizations.
	Sister Wells died in her old age through
the wearing out of her body, but it was
a painful ordeal, leaving this mortal life


and its associations, which she so dearly
loved. She has gone to her reward, which
comprises every blessing ever pronounced
by the Lord’s anointed upon a faithful and
devoted Saint who has kept the faith.
	At her funeral, which was held in the
Eighteenth ward chapel on Saturday, March
8th, 1913, great respect and love was shown
her by the many of her kindred and friends
who attended. The impressive services were
conducted by Bishop T. A. Clawson, the
singing by the quartet, Pyper, Spencer, 
Whitney, Ensign; the prayers by Presidents
J. Golden Kimball and Seymour B. Young.
Inspired, consoling discourses were given
by Presidents F. M. Lyman and Joseph F.
Smith. Many beautiful flowers, were sent
by loving friends who accompanied her
body to its last resting place, in a beautiful
plot of the city cemetery, which was ded-
cated for the graves of herself and de-
scendants by President Rulon S. Wells.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH.

	MARY BOMMELI EYRING.

	Mary Bommeli Eyring was born in Wein-
garten, Switzerland, March 20th, 1831,
in a home of good honest people. Her
mother died when she was four years
of age, but her stepmother, her mother’s
sister, was a good mother. Mary
early learned to work and sacrifice for
others and these qualities mark every act
of her whole life. Her childhood was spent
at the village school, two miles from their
home farm, during the school seasons, and
during the summer she helped on the farm,
hoeing, planting, harvesting. As soon as
she was old enough and strong enough to
move the reed on the loom, she learned to
weave and thus helped the family. She
loved school and was very sad when her
school days were over, but though not in
school she continued to read all the litera-
ture that came within her reach.
	With her friends and her brother’s friends
many long winter evenings were spent with
the papers, magazines and books of the day.
It was thus she first read about “Mormon-
ism” which had come into existence in
America. They read both good and bad,
but it was not until George, Mary’s brother,
met a “Mormon” elder in Zurich that they
became interested in the wonderful news
of the gospel’s restoration in these the last
days.
	Mary and her two brothers, George and
Daniel, were baptized in Zurich and it was
not long before the whole family were mem-
bers of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints. Many were the evenings in
the heart of winter that Mary took the
precious “Book of Mormon” and “The
Voice of Warning” down in the cellar with
her, so that when her weaving was finished
she could read them as she cuddled close to
the warm chimney.
	Like most new members, after the bap-
tismal service was performed, the spirit of
gathering came upon them. But on ac-
count of their espousal of this unpopular
belief they found much difficulty in selling
their home. They finally sold it for a pit-
tance which did not cover the whole of the
emigrating expenses. Mary had saved
enough of her share of her loom earnings to
have taken her to Zion, but she, instead,

[Column 2]
gave the money to pay her sister’s fare. She
saw her parents and sisters leave and she
was left alone to earn her way to join them.
	While working toward this end in Ger-
many, she was persecuted and harassed on
account of her belief, but instead of com-
plaining, she felt grateful that she was thus
privileged. At one time she was taken on
a bitter cold night from a nice warm feather
bed to the cold mat of a prison cell. In-
stead of receiving convicting testimony
against the elders, the officers received a bit
of Christ’s gospel. Finally she was able to
leave the mother country and find herself in
New York City, the land of many tongues,
as she often called it. Here she worked
again to get money to take her nearer her
Zion home. New customs, a new language,
new foods, all were trials in their turn. At
last she found herself starting with a Swiss
company at St. Louis to walk the long trail
of the pioneers. “Hard, why, dear children,
that was the happiest, merriest trip I ever
made,” she often told her children and
grandchildren when asked if she didn’t get
tired after one of those long hot tramps on
the desert trail. She walked every step of
the way and enjoyed every minute of the
journey.
	One evening when the company had
camped for the night and the wagon circle
was nearly completed, in the twilight could
be seen a slow moving vehicle and through
the stillness, the rattle of old wheels could
be heard. Two weary missionaries were in
that wagon, one an old man weakened
through age, the other through fever and
ague. They had come from a mission to
the Cherokee Indians and were on their way
to the Church headquarters at Salt Lake
City. They were glad to travel with the
company and the company were doubly
glad because these missionaries were from
the old country, too.
	Mary traveled beside these men and heard
with deep interest the stories of days among
the Lamanites. She learned to love and
respect and admire Henry Eyring, the
younger man of the two, younger even
than herself, but Mary in her robust health
could never have made people believe so.
	From the mutual love which ripened on
this joyous path of romantic courtship
(would you not call it that?) the marriage
of the two in Salt Lake City some months
after the journey’s end took place. Humble
was the home that Brother Eyring offered
his bride, for he found this country so new
that though well educated in the good Ger-
man schools, he found his education did not
bring bread and butter in this pioneer coun-
try. They lived first in Ogden, then in Salt
Lake City. Through exposure and illness
Brother Eyring’s lungs seem to have suf-
fered, and the severe cold of the northern
climate was hard on them. Therefore soon
after their first babe was born they went to
southern Utah, being among the first set-
tlers there.
	There in that land of unfruitful soil and
little rain, they tried to eke out a living.
Many times for months there was little to
eat except greens made from alfalfa and
other greens, and a tiny bit of flour mixed in
with them. In all of Sister Eyring’s life of
toil this one period, she claims, was the only
real hard one.
	Her babies were coming, and also as
Brother Eyring suffered with ill health, her
loom was the breadwinner for the family.

[Column 3]
She had an indomitable will which made her 
physical strength cower before its might. 
Here in St. George, her five other babies
were born, and with one exception were
raised to man and womanhood. She and
her husband helped with all their might in
that band of pioneers to make this desert
blossom as the rose.

	In that land once so drear
		A city like a tropic garden rose;
	And Utah’s first temple tower did rear
		The Saints’ defiance to all foes.

	How grateful Sister Eyring was when
that temple was built, her life’s work alone
can show. She performed her duties out-
side of temple hours, but while the temple
was open she was always a busy worker
there. From then until her death, whether
she was privileged to work personally in
the temple or not, she worked for that great
cause.
	It was love for this work which made
the call to Old Mexico Hard to heed. But
she went with her husband and again
worked with the pioneers of a new land.
	Throughout her life in the Church of
Christ her greatest enjoyment was in work-
ing for others in and out of the women’s
organizations. Especially has her name and
work been known in the Relief Society.
Both in the St. George and the Juarez stakes
of Zion, she has traveled from one settle-
ment to another as the president of the stake
Relief Society, and many will know and
remember the words of wisdom that she
gave in counsel on these visits.
	Her husband was called to our heavenly
home February, 1902, and since that time
she has been perfectly willing to join him.
In the latter years of her life, thinking each
might be her last, she did not want to leave
her home near her husband’s resting place,
for she wanted to sleep beside him. So
when last July the colonists were forced to
leave their homes for fear of death and de-
struction from the Mexican rebels, it was
hard, indeed, for her in her eighty-second
year to go, leave her beautiful garden of
roses, her loaded vineyard and her comfort-
able home, the work and toil of years, to
travel again, when she had hoped to rest.
	She did not live long, for her ever kind
and loving Father sent for her and she went
to Him January 19th, 1913, in Ephraim,
Sanpete County, Utah.
				Theresa Snow Hill.


ROY WARD RELIEF SOCIETY PARTY.
	The sisters of Roy ward, Weber stake,
held a very interesting party and meeting on
the occasion of the seventy-first anniversary
of the Relief Society day, the 17th of March.
	Several young people helped to make the
program entertaining. Songs were sung by
Emma and Elva Robinson, Melvin Gibley
and Esther Baker; recitations by Lettie
Stoker, Etta Hammon, and Cornelia Wes-
ton, while Leo Lambert contributed a solo
on the clarionet.
	The meeting was presided over by the
president, Margaret Child, who after some
interesting remarks and speech of welcome,
was followed by Bishop Thomas Hollands,
First Counselor Diana Robinson, and Sister
E. V. Jones. All expressed splendid senti-
ments for the work of the Relief Society
and appreciation of those engaged along the
lines of charity.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MARCH VIOLETS.
		“Violets dim,
	But sweeter than the lids of Juno’s eyes,
	Or Cytherea’s breath.”—Winter’s Tale.

Sweet firstlings of the early spring
Sad thoughts and strange to me you bring;
	Yet you speak of happy hours,
When hopes were bright and times were gay
And life seemed but a laughing May,
	The world a world of flowers,
When, yet by sorrow undefiled,
I gathered you, a merry child.

But, as I gaze upon you now,
With sinking heart and clouded brow,
	Your charms are all unnoted;
I fondly deemed your witching spell
Would make me love what once so well
	I loved with love devoted;
My hope was, through your magic art,
Sad care would from my soul depart.

Vain hope! And yet the fault is mine.
Flow’rs bloom and stars as brightly shine
	As when I was a boy;
’Tis I myself alone have changed,
’Tis I have from my soul estranged
	The things I could enjoy,
Ere, at the world’s vile altar kneeling,
I sacrificed each purer feeling.

Ah, bitter is the price, in truth,
They pay who pass their later youth
	In vain and worldly strife;
Who lose in hope of honor’s prize,
The happiness that only lies
	In peaceful, stilly life—
To that prefer the stormy deep
Where ’wild’ring tempests ever sweep.

Sweet flow’rs, whose hue cerulean vies
With the deep hue of seraph-eyes
	That gaze upon the bowers
Where hope and joy eternal bloom
And far around is shed perfume
	From everlasting flowers:
Sad thoughts and strange to me you bring.
Blest firstlings of the dawning spring.
				—A. P., Family Herald.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT.
		BOX ELDER STAKE.
	Convened Nov. 16th, 1912, Pres. Sarah P.
Stohl presiding. Present, besides Relief So-
ciety stake officers, Pres. Oleen N. Stohl,
Bishop Johnson of Mantua, Sister Sarah
McLelland of general Relief Society board,
Sisters Sarah M. Taylor, Goddard, Jost, and
Coles of the Ogden stake Relief Society.
	Singing “Did You Think to Pray.” Open-
ing prayer by Sister Sophia Jensen. Sing-
ing by the Relief Society choir, “Angry
words, oh let them never.” Roll call showed
two hundred and fifty present. Minutes of
previous forenoon conference read and ap-
proved.
	Pres. Sarah P. Stohl was pleased to see
so many sisters out this morning, and was
very happy to have so many visitors with
us; said we hoped to make this the most
profitable conference we had yet had. May
the Lord bless us with His holy spirit to-
day.
	Sister Julia A. Richards gave a good talk
on genealogy; thought it very necessary to
keep a record of our families; said it was a
work in which there ought to be more in-
terest taken; thought if we wanted our chil-
dren to take interest in this work we would
have to take interest ourselves; said she
thought it was a work which draws out our
love for our relatives and one another. May
the Lord bless all.
	Sister Daisy Madsen gave a report of her
labors in the mission field; said she worked
in the Relief Society in Chicago, where they

[Column 2]
had quite a large society; thought if the
sisters here had the difficulties the sisters
have in the world we would appreciate the
work much better. Reported the work in
Bloomington, Ill.; said the sisters have the
spirit of the Lord with them when they
meet; spoke of the sacrifices some of them
have to make when they join the Church,
and could contrast the difference between
those who had been raised in the gospel and
those who had not; gave some of her ex-
perience in tracting; said her heart was full
of gratitude for the little she had done in
the Relief Society; paid a tribute to the
mothers; said if every Latter-day Saint
would live up to the requirements made of
her, we would be a better example to the
people.
	Pres. Agnes Owens reported the Willard
Relief Society, also Pres. Annie Peters re-
ported the Perry association. The choir
sang the selection, “Daughters of Zion.”
	Sister Sarah McLelland of the General
Board said it was with very much pleasure
she came to visit this conference, and give
the greeting of Sister Wells to the sisters
here; referred to her laboring in the mission
field, with some of the sisters from this
stake, and knew them to be good worthy
sisters, whom she had learned to love; did
not wonder at their goodness in being as-
sociated with such good mothers; had very
much enjoyed the spirit here this morning,
and the good attendance; spoke in
regard to the temptations that are before
our children, and that they did need the
faith and prayers and counsel of the fathers
and mothers, that they may retain the faith.
Referred to genealogical work, and her priv-
lege of visiting the Temple at St. George;
said a few words to the teachers, and said
any position that you hold is worthy of your 
best efforts.
	Sister Coles of the Ogden stake was very
pleased that our president had been kind 
enough to invite them to attend this confer-
ence; had been well paid for coming, in
listening to the talks of the sisters; spoke on 
genealogy work, was very much impressed
with this work, and the greatness of it, and
how the spirit of Elijah was working with
the people of the world in this direction;
her whole heart and soul was in this Relief
Society work.
	Pres. Sarah P. Stohl invited all the sisters
to remain and have lunch.
	Singing, “Oh God, we raise to Thee.”
	Prayer by Bishop Johnson.
	2 p. m.—Singing, “We Thank Thee, O
God, for a Prophet.” Opening prayer by
Bro. W. C. Horsley. Singing by choir,
“Sweet is the Work.” Minutes of previous
afternoon conference read and approved.
	Pres. Sarah P. Stohl was pleased to see
such a good congregation this afternoon,
and hoped all would be able to hear.
	A paper on “The Ideal Home” was given
by Sister Minnie H. Jensen.
	Sister Sevena Madsen gave a report of
her labors in the Northern States Mission.
It had been her privilege to bear her testi-
mony first in a Relief Society meeting. It
was a pleasure to go and do all she could to
assist in Relief Society work; they studied
the “Parent and Child;” was transferred
from Chicago to Des Moines; they had a
mothers’ class there and studied the prin-
ciples of the gospel; reported the work at
Council Bluffs; reported her visit with Pres.

[Column 3]
Horsley and others at the Park Valley and
Rosette wards, this stake; was very much
impressed with the visit.
	Duet and chorus by the choir, “Truth Re-
flects Upon Our Senses.”
	Dr. R. A. Pearse gave a talk on “Public
Sanitation,” and how our committees can
be a help to the Board of Health; spoke on
the inspection of school children for the eye,
ear and throat trouble, and the detriment
these defects were to the child through life;
spoke on the milk supply, and to watch for
contagious diseases; gave ways of keeping
down disease germs; said the people should
demand certain laws that are for the best
good of the people.
	Pres. Sarah M. Taylor of the Ogden
stake was very thankful for the invitation to
come to this conference; had enjoyed it very
much; spoke in regard to the small attend-
ance of young mothers, also in regard to
the work of the teachers; gave a brief report
of the work done in the Ogden stake; was
pleased with the talk on sanitation; 
thought how necessary it was for us
to be organized that we may carry on this
work, and thought we could plan our home
work so that we could get out to Relief
Society meeting; said a few words on gene-
alogical work, also on the history of the
Pioneers. Prayed that the spirit of the
Lord would rest upon us in such a way that
we will do our duty.
	Sisters Daisy and Sevena Madsen ren-
dered a duet, entitled, “God is Love.”
	Sister Sarah McLelland said we are
always glad to have the priesthood with us,
as it always has its good influence. The
paper on “The Ideal Home” and the talk on
sanitation had been very good; paid a trib-
ute to the choir, and had enjoyed the beau-
tiful singing; said there was such a broad
field for the Relief Society; felt that the key-
note for the future was in what Pres. Joseph
F. Smith had said in the last semi-annual
conference in regard to setting our aim 
high, and in regard to immorality in dress;
spoke on honoring the Sabbath day, form-
ing of habits, card playing, and cigarette
smoking; thought if we prayed for those
boys who do these things, the Lord would
help us; spoke on the great work of women,
and felt there was not another people who
had as much to live for as the Latter-day
Saints. May God bless you in your work in
this part of the Lord’s vineyard.
	Stake Pres. Oleen N. Stohl felt the most
important thing before us now was to im-
press our children with faith; thought we
ought to talk more to them, and speak more
of the beauties of the gospel; spoke of the
receiving of the Holy Ghost and the bless-
ing s that follow it; the mothers taking
more interest in the Parents’ classes in the
Sunday School, and participating in the
lessons taught there; felt to ask a
blessing upon the mothers and said they
could do much in instilling good principles
in the lives of our children.
	Pres. Sarah P. Stohl felt we had had
an enjoyable time, together, and thanked
the sisters who had visited us and given us
such good talks and counsel; felt we ought
to be friendly and neighborly.
	By request, the choir sang “Daughters of 
Zion.”
	Benediction by Sister Emelia D. Madsen.
			ANNIE H. LITTLEWOOD,
						Stake Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop’s
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH,	-	MARCH, 1913


RELIEF SOCIETY DAY.
	The 17th of March is now pretty well
conceded to be Relief Society Day through-
out all Zion. Scarcely a ward or branch
of the Church but on that day holds
a festival of some kind. It may be a party,
a concert, a meeting or a feast, at all events
it is a day of rejoicing. “I now turn the key
for woman,” were the ever memorable
words uttered by the Prophet Joseph Smith
when on the morning of March seventeen,
eighteen hundred and forty-two he organ-
ized the Relief Society. There were present
eighteen women and three men in a room
over the Nauvoo store called the Masonic
Hall, when the prophet uttered the strange
sentence. The society had been duly organ-
ized with a president, two counselors, a sec-
retary, assistant secretary and treasurer; the
name had been decided upon and some dis-
cussion as to the work to be performed, when
Joseph proceeded to give instruction and in
a brief way outline the duties of the society,
during which instruction the words above
quoted were uttered. Remember, in eigh-
teen forty-two not a college in the world
had opened its doors to women. There were
no clubs, societies or organizations of wo-
men any where. Women’s education was
almost entirely along lines of fine accom-
plishments such as fitted her to grace a ball
room or a family parlor but to unfit her to
meet life and its issues without the aid
of man to lean upon. She was trained
much on the theory of the clinging vine and
hothouse notion and not at all fitted for
the strength of self-support or the throes of
adversity; all of which training is charm-
ing and quite sufficient when a sturdy oak
in the shape of a prosperous well-disposed
husband can be guaranteed for ever and for-
ever. But alas for the wars and other con-
ditions that hew down the sturdy oaks and
leave mothers, wives, sweethearts to stand
and fight alone life’s battles!
	Glance back seventy-one years; what a
marvelous change for woman—professors,
doctors, lawyers, bachelors of art, literature,
science: states women, police women, may-
ors, members of city councils, juvenile
judges, and numerous other positions held
by woman while in matters of education
she claims her place on the same basis as
her brother, the basis of intellectuality.
	The key was indeed turned for woman.
That glorious thought vibrated throughout


the earth, over mountain and sea, and the
daughters of the universe have received its
benediction. Written words could no more
tell the magnificent work of the members of
the Relief Society than they could describe
the perfume of a flower or the song of the
meadow lark, for like ministering angels
they comfort the sorrowful, relieve the dis-
tressed, feed the hungry, clothe the naked,
wait upon the sick, relieve the distressed,
scattering glad news and cheer along their
daily walk, giving in the true Christian
spirit, letting not the left hand know what
the right hand doeth.
	One sweet day of celebration and re-
membrance is surely and justly theirs, the
seventeenth of March, Relief Society Day.
		ANNIE WELLS CANNON.


[Column 1]
		THE LEGISLATURE.
	The tenth session of the Utah legislature
has closed and for the fourth time since
statehood women took part with men in the
framing of the laws.
	There have been all together nine women
elected to the legislature of this state; more
than any other state has had and foremost
of all the states in such procedure.
	Very much has been published this past
winter in the different magazines about Col-
orado’s woman senator, claiming that Mrs.
Robinson of that state is the first woman in
the United States to hold that position; and
it has been with some surprise that we have
noted the press of Utah has not contra-
dicted the statement, when it is well known
that in 1897, Dr. Martha Hughes Cannon
was elected on the Democratic ticket to the
legislature, as state senator, and the same
year Mrs. LaBarthe was elected state repre-
sentative. The next session Mrs. Alice M.
Horne of Salt Lake City and Mrs. Anderson
of Ogden were elected representatives, while
two years later Mrs. Coulter of Ogden
graced the lower house with her presence.
After a lapse of five years women came once
more to the front in this connection and the
result was the election in 1912 of five women
on the state ticket, one presidential elector
and four state representatives. The elector,
Mrs. Margaret Zane Witcher; Dr. Jane W.
Skolfield, Mrs. Anna H. King, Mrs. Edythe
Ellerbeck Read and Mrs. Annie Wells Can-
non, representatives. In the beginning of
the session Mrs. Read, who had been ill all
winter, died without even qualifying, and
the women felt they had sustained not only
a severe loss in companionship but the loss
of an able and brilliant co-laborer in the
many lines of their work.
	That the legislature just closed has been
a memorable one for some splendid work is
recognized as a review of the measures
passed will testify.
	The interests of the state at large were
well considered, and while roads and
bridges, and cattle and sheep, and wild ani-
mals and irrigation projects, and revenue
and taxation, mines and smelters and dif-
ferent industries, fish and game, all received
much attention, there was also more thought
and time given to the educational interests
of the state and more splendid measures en-
acted along that line than any previous leg-
slature; also considerable attention was
given to social legislation, and while all the
measures along this line were not success-
ful, many of them were. Among these lat-
ter were the widowed mothers’ pension and

[Column 2]
joint guardianship, the minimum wage, the
woman deputy, the widows’ property tax
exemption bills, for all of which the women
worked most earnestly, also the new juve-
nile court law, which is a most excellent
measure. It creates a system of juvenile
court judges throughout the state, adding
greatly to the efficiency and support of an
already admirable work.
	That some worthy measures did not suc-
ceed is due not so much to a lack of earnest
work as perhaps a lack of knowledge on the
part of some of the legislators. New ideas
require, like other things, time to grow, but
when the seed is once sown the plant is
pretty sure to thrive and those things hoped
for this time will, we trust, be realized the
next.
	For the first time in the history of the
state the legislature adjourned in the allotted
sixty days, a precedent which it is hoped
other sessions will follow.
						A. W. C.


SUFFRAGISTS AND SUFFRAGETTES.
	It seems almost impossible for the public
to distinguish the difference between the
two organizations of women known as the
Suffrage organization and the Suffragette
society.
	The first, the suffragists, is that notable
body of women who have firmly but quietly
and decisively carried on an educational
campaign for the right of franchise; a
noble and notable army of women with live
leaders like Susan B. Anthony, Elizabeth
Cady Stanton, Lucretia Mott and others,
who have held congresses and conventions
in nearly all the large cities of the world;
who have proclaimed their gospel of equal
suffrage from the platform and through the
press but have never resorted to any dem-
onstration beyond the dignity of the most
refined, although at times they have them-
selves been boisterously assailed and most
unkindly and unjustly ridiculed and mis-
represented through the press.
	The second, the suffragettes, are a mili-
tant organization of women who endeavor
to gain the right of franchise through force
rather than education, through demand
rather than persuasion; claiming that what
is the right of men is equally the right of
women and needs no argument.
	That the end hoped for is the same need
not imply that either organization neces-
sarily justifies the other in its mode of pro-
cedure. Whatever the suffragettes may
think of the educational plan, it is quite
certain the suffragists do not approve of
the militants when they go so far as to
destroy property, threaten life, interfere
with the mail and incite to panic and riot.
The law is the law and when one breaks a
law, man or woman, then is he or she sub-
ject to the penalty of the offense. It is this
misunderstanding among the masses of the
people, this not being able to distinguish be-
tween the two, this thinking that if a woman
wants to vote she must necessarily be a
militant law-breaker and window smasher,
that has retarded and hurt the suffrage
cause more than anything else. In all prob-
ability it was this same misunderstanding
which caused the trouble in Washington
during the suffrage parade the day before
President Wilson’s inauguration. The lower
element of the city, the hoodlums and igno-
rant masses, assailed without resistance from


a likewise ignorant police force, a most rep-
resentative and intelligent body of AMerican
women and not only destroyed the effect of
a classical and beautiful procession but in-
jured their bodies and insulted their souls. 
	For months preparations were being
made for this procession. Letters had been
written to the prominent organizations of
every state in the Union. The designer’s
art had been called into service for unique
floats and telling costumes. Banners, flags
and pennants had been painted and em-
broidered. Horses, carriages and automo-
biles had been engaged, while bands and
drum corps had been making ready for some
time. An imposing and magnificent array
which might have told in symbol to the
people gathered at the capital from all over
the United States for the inaugural cere-
monies, something of the numerical and in-
tellectual strength of the suffrage cause,
had not that brutal, ignorant, seething mass
of humanity been allowed to break the ranks
and scatter and hurl the columns of march-
ing women into confusion. Such proceed-
ings are a shame to American manhood and
especially to a city government which can
offer no protection when protection most is
needed. It is to be hoped that the investiga-
tion into the inaction of the police depart-
ment will be thorough and the findings will
be adequate for such dereliction. The suf-
frage cause is advancing at any rate stead-
ily and surely, and no amount of brutal and
ignorant opposition can stop the progress of
so just and good a movement. 
					A. W. CANNON.


WOMAN ’ S EXPONENT.


THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
	(Copied from the Original Record.)
	ELIZA R. SNOW, SECRETARY. 
	By invitation of the President of the
Church, a number of sisters convened in
the Masonic Lodge Room on the 17th of
March, 1842. President Joseph Smith,
Elders John Taylor and Willard Richards
were present. 
	President Smith stated that the meeting
was called for the purpose of making more
complete the organization of the Church,
by organizing the women in the order of
the Priesthood. 
	John Taylor was called to the chair and
Willard Richards acted as secretary. Af-
ter singing and prayer a vote was taken
to know if all were satisfied with each sis-
ter present, and willing to acknowledge
them in good fellowship and admit them
to all the privileges of the institution about
to be organized. All being satisfied, the
names of those present were taken as fol-
lows:
	Emma Smith, Martha Knight, Elvira A. 
Cowles, Sarah M. Cleveland, Phebe Ann
Hawkes, Margaret A. Cook, Desdemona
Fulmer, Elizabeth Ann Whitney, Sarah M. 
Kimball, Elizabeth Jones, Leonora Taylor,
Eliza R. Snow, Sophia Packard, Bathsheba
W. Smith, Sophia Robinson, Philinda Her-
rick, Phebe M. Wheeler, Sophia R. Marks. 
	President Smith then explained some of
the duties that would devolve on members
of the Society, said they could provoke the
brethren to good works, look after the
needs of the poor, and perform charitable
acts. 
	Woman must assist in correcting the mor-
als, and strengthening the virtues of the
community. Said it is now in order for the
sisters to elect a President to preside over
the Society and let her choose two coun-
selors to assist in the duties of her office. 
He would ordain them and let them pre-
side just as the Presidency preside over
the Church, and if they needed his instruc-
tion, they could ask and he would be pleased
to give it from time to time. Let the Pres-
idency serve as a constitution and their de-
cisions become precedents for you to act
upon.
	If officers are wanted to carry out the
designs of the institution, let them be ap-
pointed and set apart as Teachers, Deacons,
etc., are among us. 
	Elizabeth A. Whitney moved and So-
phia Packard seconded the motion that Em-
ma Smith be elected President of the So-
ciety; the vote was put by the chairman
and pronounced unanimous. 
	The President Elect made choice of Sar-
ah M. Cleveland and Elizabeth Ann Whit-
ney as her counselors. 
	Eliza R. Snow was appointed secretary,
and Phebe M. Wheeler assistant secretary,
and Elvira A. Cowles, treasurer. 
	President Joseph Smith read the revela-
tion to Emma Smith, from the Book of
Doctrine and Covenants, and stated that
she had been ordained at the time the reve-


[Column 1]
lation was given to expound the Scriptures,
to teach, etc. He then read Scriptures to
show that an elect lady is one elected to
preside.
	By request of President Joseph Smith,
Apostle John Taylor ordained Sarah M.
Cleveland and Elizabeth Ann Whitney to be
counselors and assist President Emma
Smith in the duties of her office and share
in the blessings pertaining thereto.
	He then confirmed on Emma Smith her
former ordination, and blessed her to be a
mother in Israel, a pattern of virtue, and
to possess all the qualifications necessary
to enable her to preside with dignity and
give such instruction as may be requisite
in her calling as an Elect Lady.
	Elder Taylor vacated the chair and Em-
ma Smith and her counselors took the stand.
	A lengthy discussion followed on the
question, “What shall the Society be
called?” Mrs. Cleveland and Whitney ad-
vocated the appropriateness of the name Re-
lief Society. John Taylor and Joseph
Smith spoke in favor of the word Benevo-
lent. Emma Smith and E. R. Snow ar-
gued in favor of Mrs. Cleveland’s choice.
The gentlemen withdrew their objection and
a motion to adopt the name Relief Society
was unanimously carried.
	President Joseph Smith then said, “I now
declare this Society organized with Presi-
dent and counselors. All who shall here-
after be admitted must be free from cen-
sure and admitted by vote.” President Jo-
seph Smith laid down a five dollar gold
piece to commence a Relief Society fund,
and said, “What I do hereafter for char-
ity I shall do through this society.” Sarah
M. Cleveland gave 12 1/2  cents; Sarah M.
Kimball $1.00; Emma Smith, $1.00; Eliza-
beth Ann Whitney, 50 cents; Willard Rich-
ards, $1.00; John Taylor, $2.00.
	At the third meeting of the Society,
March 31st, President Joseph Smith said
the members of the Society must act in
concert, or nothing can be accomplished.
To move acording to the ancient order of
the Priesthood this must be a select So-
ciety, separate from the evils of the world.
	Sixth meeting, April 28th, said he was
present to speak upon the Priesthood; as
his instructions were intended only for
members of the Society, he wished those
not members to withdraw. After which
he called attention to the 12th chapter of
Corinthians, “Now concerning spiritual
gifts,” etc., said the passage which reads,
“No man can say that Jesus is the Lord
but by the Holy Ghost,” should be trans-
lated, “No man knows,” etc. Continued the
reading of the chapter, and gave instruc-
tions respecting the different offices and the
necessity of every individual acting in the
place allotted to him or her, and filling the
office to which they were appointed. 
	Spoke of the disposition of some to con-
sider the lower offices in the Church dis-
honorable and to look with jealous eyes on
the position of others; said it was the non-
sense of the human heart, to aspire to posi-
tions not appointed of God, that it was bet-
ter for individuals to magnify their respec-
tive callings and wait patiently till God
shall say to them, “Come up higher.” Said
it was talked by members of the Society
that some were not doing right in laying
hands on the sick. If they had common
sympathy, they would rejoice that the sick
could be healed. The time had not been
before when these things could be in their

[Column 2]
proper order. The Church is not now or-
ganized in its proper order and cannot be
until the temple is completed. He referred
to the commission given to the ancient
apostles, “Go ye into all the world,” no
matter who believes, these signs, such as
healing the sick, casting out devils, should
follow all that believe, whether male or fe-
male.
	If the sisters have faith to heal the sick,
let them do so, and let the good work roll
on. It is no sin for anybody to administer
to the sick that has faith, or if the sick
have faith to be healed by the administra-
tion.
	Reproved those that were disposed to
find fault; spoke at some length on the
difficulties he had had to surmount ever
since the organization of the Church, on ac-
count of aspiring men; said the same as-
piring disposition will be in this Society
and must be guarded against.
	As he had the opportunity he would in-
struct the Society how to act according to
the will of God. He did not know that he
should have many opportunities of teach-
ing them, they were going to be left to
themselves, they would not long have him
to instruct them, the Church would not
have his instruction long and the world
would not be troubled with him a great
while, according to his prayer God had ap-
pointed him elsewhere.
	The congregation was melted to tears.
	He exhorted the sisters to sustain with
their confidence, their faith and their
prayers, those whom God had appointed to
lead. Said the keys are about to be given
to you, that you may be able to detect any-
thing false, as readily as the Elders. If
members of the Society become corrupt, you
must deal with them; the sympathies of the
heads of the Church have induced them to
bear with those that are corrupt, in conse-
quence of which all become contaminated;
you must put down iniquity and by your
good example provoke the Elders to good
works.
	If you do right there is no danger of go-
ing too fast, resist evil and there is no dan-
ger, neither God, man, angels or devils can
condemn those that resist everything that is
evil. As well might the devil seek to de-
throne Jehovah as that soul that resists
everything evil. You are now placed in a
situation where you can act according to
those sympathies which God has planted in
your bosoms. If you live in accord with
your privileges, angels cannot be restrained
from being your associates. Women, if
they are pure and innocent, can come into
the presence of God. If we would come
into the presence of God we must be pure.
The devil has great power, his ways are de-
ceptive. Do not be contentious, but let the
weight of innocence be felt, which is more
mighty that a millstone hung about the
neck. Meekness, love, purity, these are the
things that should magnify us.
	Iniquity must be purged out, then the
vail will be rent, and the blessings of heaven
will flow down.
	After this instruction you will be more
responsible, it is an honor to save your-
selves, all are responsible for themselves.
	He then read the 13th chapter of Corin-
thians. “Though I speak with the tongues
of angels,” etc.; said do not be limited in
your views with regard to your neighbors’
virtues, do not think yourselves more right-

[Column 3]
eous than others. You must enlarge your
souls towards others, if you would do like
Jesus and carry your fellow creatures to
Abraham’s bosom. He had manifested
long-suffering and we must do the same.
Said, “Though we have the spirit of proph-
ecy,” etc. Though one should become
mighty and do great things, overturn
mountains, and then turn to do that which
is evil, all former deeds would not save
them, but they would go to destruction. As
you increase in innocence, virtue and good-
ness, let your hearts expand, let them be
enlarged towards others; you must be long
suffering and bear with the faults and er-
rors of mankind. How precious the souls
of men! The Society is to get instruction
through the order which God has estab-
lished, through the medium of those ap-
pointed to lead, and I now turn the key to
you in the name of God, and this Society
shall rejoice and knowledge and intelli-
gence shall flow down from this time; this
is the beginning of better days for you.
	When you go home never give a cross
word, but let kindness, charity and love
crown your works. Do not envy sinners,
exercise mercy towards them.
	Let your administrations be confined
mostly to those around you. As far as
knowledge is concerned it may extend to
all the world. But your administrations
should be confined to the circle of your
acquaintance, and more especially the mem-
bers of the Society. Those ordained to
lead the Society are authorized to appoint
officers as the circumstances shall require.
	If any have a matter to reveal, let it be
in your own tongue, do not indulge much
in the gift of tongues, or the devil will take
advantage.
	You may speak in tongues for your com-
fort. But I lay this down as a rule, that if
anything is taught by the gift of tongues,
it is not to be received for doctrine.
	President Smith then gave instruction
respecting women administering to the sick
by the laying on of hands, said it was ac-
cording to revelation, he never was placed
in similar circumstances, and never had
given the same instruction.
	At the ninth meeting May 26th, the
Prophet read the 14th chapter of Ezekiel
and said the Lord declared by that prophet
that the people should each one stand for
themselves and depend on no man or men;
in the state of corruption in the Jewish
church that righteous persons could only
deliver their own souls. Applied it to the
present condition of the Church of Latter-
day Staints. If the people depart from the
Lord they must fall, they were depending
on the Prophet, hence there was darkness
in their minds.
	He had two things to recommend to the
Society. Be guarded in your speech; no
organized society can exist without giving
heed to this caution. All organized bodies
have their peculiar evils, weaknesses and
difficulties, the object is to make those not
so good equal with the good, and ever hold
the keys of power which will influence to
virtue and goodness.
	When you chasten and reprove, never
mention it again, then you will be estab-
lished in power, virtue and holiness and
the wrath of God will be turned away. God
designs to save the people out of their sins.
Jesus said, “Ye shall do the works which
ye have seen me do;” these are the grand
key-words for the Society to act upon.


Tenth meeting was addressed by Bishop
N. K. Whitney, President Joseph Smith be-
ing present. 
	Eleventh meeting, June 11th. Presiden[-]
Joseph Smith. It grieves me that there is
no fuller fellowship, if one member suf-
fers all feel it; by union of feeling we ob-
tain power with God; Christ said He came
to call sinners to repentance, and to save
them. Christ was condemned by the right-
eous Jews because He took sinners into His
society, he took them upon the principle
that they repent. Nothing is so much cal-
culated to lead people to forsake sin as to
take them by the hand and watch over them
with tenderness. The nearer we get to our
Heavenly Father, the more we are disposed
to look with compassion on perishing souls. 
I say to this Society if you would have God
to have mercy on you, have mercy on each
other. How mild the Savior dealt with
Peter, saying, “When thou art converted
strengthen thy brethren.” At another time
He said to him, “Lovest thou me? Feed my
sheep.” The Society is not only to relieve
the poor but to save souls. 
	Sixteenth meeting, held in the Grove,
Aug. 31st, 1842. After relating recent diffi-
culties President Joseph Smith had encoun-
tered while being hunted by his enemies,
he said the Relief Society has taken an
active part in my welfare in petitioning the
Governor in my behalf. These measures
were necessary and your influence helped to
bring about my redemption from the hands
of my enemies. I have come here to bless
you. The Society has done well, their prin-
ciples are to practice holiness. God loves
you and your prayers shall avail much; do
not cease to let them ascend to God in my
behalf. The enemy will never get weary. 
I expect he will array everything against
me, expect a tremendous warfare. He that
will war the Christian warfare will have
Satan and all the powers of darkness con-
tinually arrayed against him. 
	A few things had been manifested to him
during his absence, respecting baptism for
the dead, which he would communicate next
 Sabbath if nothing should occur to pre-
vent it. He then offered a fervent prayer to
God in behalf of the Society. After the
transaction of some business in the adjust-
ment of which President Smith offered
counsel—he then said he had one more re-
mark to make respecting baptism for the
dead which must suffice for the present and
until he had the opportunity to present the
subject at a greater length. 
	All persons baptized for the dead must
have a recorder present, that he may be an
eye-witness to testify of it. It will be nec-
essary in the Great Council that these things
be testified of. It should be attended to
from this time. If there is any lack it may
be at the expense of our friends. 
	This was the last Relief Society meeting
that President Joseph Smith attended. 
	During the two years administration of
President Emma Smith and her associates,
visiting sisters were appointed to search
out the needy, to find work for the able-
bodied, to receive contributions and to re-
port conditions. 
	The labors of the Society were extend-
ed to the four wards of the city. 
	One thousand two hundred and seventy-
five names were enrolled as members. The
recorded receipts were $415.24.


[Column 1]
		THE LIVING WAGE. 
	The members of the vice investigation 
committee of Chicago came across so many
shocking and surprising facts connected
with the downfall of girls that they have
referred the matter to President Wilson, be-
lieving that only by national legislation can
existing conditions be rectified. There have
already been some splendid results from the
publicity of the investigations. The Na-
tional Harvester company has increased the
salaries of its women employees, and other
large institutions are taking steps to do the
same, while the states which have legisla-
tion pending connected with the “living
wage” subject are likely to pass some
measures of benefit to the working woman. 
	The Utah legislature enacted a minimum
wage measure which has received the gov-
ernor’s signature and will go into effect im-
mediately. To the credit of the state, be it
said that Utah is the first state to fix a scale
of wages for the working girl. The mini-
mum is low, it is true, and not what the
friends of the measure desired, but it is a
step in the right direction, and will raise the
standard and respect of the girl herself to
know she has a law to befriend and protect
her. 
	One other excellent measure enacted by
the Utah legislature connected with the
working girl, was the one which provided
for a woman deputy on the Commission of
Immigration, Labor and Statistics. It will
be the duty of this woman deputy to see
that the state laws are enforced in regard
to the employment of women and children
in the different industries in the state. When
one considers the large number of women
employed in the different mercantile estab-
lishments, the laundries, the hospitals, the

[Column 2]
biscuit and candy factories, box factories,
hotels and restaurants, not to mention
schools where about ninety per cent of the
teachers are women, one wonders that so
long a time should have passed in a suffrage
state without such an officer.
	With a good, competent woman holding
this position, the working girl will feel
greater security in her work; she will know
that there is some one with authority look-
ing after her interests. The industries need
not suffer in consequence of these measures,
in fact they ought to prosper, as all things
do, where a proper understanding exists be-
tween employer and employee, on a basis
of something like equality. It may not, per-
haps, be very well known that many estab-
lishments in Salt Lake City employ young
girls at the rate of fifty-three and a half
cents a day, and some even less, expecting
a good nine-hour day’s work. With these
two measures enforced, such a condition is
now impossible. 
	While probably there will always exist
evil and girls will fall from the path of
rectitude, yet with good laws on the statute
books of the state and good officers to en-
force the laws, there is protection for the
working girl and safer conditions around
her. The low wage and poor environment
may not be the greatest or only causes of
immorality, but they are undoubtedly im-
portant factors in driving girls to lives of
shame. 
	The fact that when a girl lives at home
she does not need such high wages as the
girl who comes from the country and has
to pay for her room and board as well as
clothes, is one argument the employer makes
that he always inquires if his apprentices
live at home and the wage in such cases
ranges from two dollars and a half to four
dollars a week. Now, does it stand to rea-
son that parents would send their girls into
the whirl and sorrow of the factory or the
shop if her wage was not to become a factor
in the support of the home? One does not
need to follow the investigations of “vice
committees” in Chicago or any of the big
cities; all one needs to do is to look around
at home in one’s own town or city and learn
something of the conditions of the labor-
ing class; that as soon as children are
old enough they are taken from school and
forced into the “madding crowd” in pursuit
of money to help pay perhaps the house
rent, or the interest on the mortgaged home,
to help clothe and feed those still younger
and the work worn mother. Many of these
working girls are underfed and life in youth
becomes care and burden when it should be
a joy and delight. When the nation or the
individual states have legislation to amelior-
ate these conditions then are we progressing
towards the plane of universal brotherhood;
when the manufacturer or the merchant can
realize that those whom he employs are en-
titled to a reasonable and sufficient wage,
in fact when he will concede that he does
not need ninety-five per cent of his profits
while his employees divide the remaining
five, then perhaps will begin the solving of
that perplexing national question—“Labor
and Capital.”
	The women of the country have agitated
legislation along these lines for some time
past and now when women are beginning to
have a hand and an influence in the making
of the laws, the fruit of their labors is being
realized. In four of the suffrage states,
Colorado, Utah, Washington, and Califor-

[Column 3]
nia, women sat in the legislature this win-
ter, and in all of these states some splendid
social legislation has been passed, while
committees of women have worked for sim-
ilar laws in states where suffrage does not
yet obtain. So rolls on the good work. 
						A. W. C.


WOMAN ’ S EXPONENT.


WOMAN ’ S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		ST. PATRICK.
	“Toast America’s goldenrod, 
	Toast France’s lily fair.
	Toast bonny Scotland’s thistle,
	And England’s rose so rare.
	They all deserve our praises,
	And our blessings too, I ween,
	But give to me the shamrock
	From the little isle so green.”

	It would not be inappropriate if we gave
a few minutes thought to St. Patrick, as our
festival day by coincidence falls on the same
day as his. St. Patrick was a true saint of
God. A saint is a person endowed with a
sublime spirit of prayer, purity of heart,
and perfect charity and humility.
	Such people God chooses to act as his in-
struments on earth.
	During the close of the fourth century, in
a little town in Scotland, a boy was born
called Patrick. His parents were of a good
Roman family. He was tenderly nurtured
and reared in the Christian faith. He lived
on the farm with his parents until he was
sixteen years of age, when a band of
pirates visited that part of the country and
carried off a great many of the young peo-
ple, among them the boy Patrick. He was
taken into Ireland and forced to tend cattle
and swine. He went through many hard-
ships, such as danger and cold. He endured
these trials for six long years, and it was
during this time that his intense religious
nature was developed.
	He fasted and prayed day and night to
be able to stand these persecutions. He
made as many as one hundred prayers in
a night and the same during the day. One
night he had a dream in which it was made
known to him to return to Scotland. He at
once planned to escape, which he succeeded
in doing and made his way on foot two
hundred miles to the sea coast. When he
arrived there he found a ship ready to sail;
having no money he begged the captain to
be allowed to work his way, but the cap-
tain sternly refused. He turned to go back
with a sad heart, and prayed earnestly to
God to help him. He had not gone far when
he was suddenly called back by the sailors
who told him the captain had relented.
	During the voyage he preached a great
deal to the sailors and taught them to have
faith in God. When they reached land they
found themselves in a barren waste of coun- 
try and had to travel for many days on foot.
They were often without food and at one
time actually faced starvation. The captain
asked this boy preacher why he did not call
upon God to help them. He replied if they
would turn to the Lord in faith their prayers
would be answered. This they did, and that
very same day they came across a herd of
swine, and were never without food again.
	Patrick finally reached his home and was
received with great joy and gladness. After
a few years he had a vision in which God
told him he was to perform the great work
of converting the Irish. He immediately
began to prepare himself for this mission.
After studying hard for four years he
gained permission from the Pope to set
about this work. So he departed once more
for Ireland.
	He found the people to be a lot of bar-
barians worshiping idols; he worked un-
ceasingly among them day and night. He
traveled from one end of the island to the
other exposing himself to great danger. In
a short time his labors were rewarded and

[Column 2]
he baptized many, ordained clergymen and
established monasteries, and in time all of
the people were converted and Ireland be-
came a garden in the Church.
	St. Patrick performed many miracles,
such as healing the sick, restoring sight to
the blind, and it is said he even raised the
dead. He labored in this way for 40 years
and then he passed away.
	During the early part of his ministry he
was preaching to a barbarian chief, trying
to explain the Trinity. This the chief could
not understand, how it could be possible for
one to be in three. St. Patrick picked from
the green sod a shamrock and holding it up
bade him behold “one in three.” The chief
was so impressed with this illustration that
he at once was baptized.
	The shamrock became the national em-
blem of Ireland and is symbolized all over
the world where there are any Irish by “The
Wearing of the Green.”
	St. Patrick we know and esteem
	By wearing a little knot of green;
	But our hearts best wishes will always be 
	With our own Relief Society.
			WlNNIFRED C. ELLERBECK.


ANNIVERSARY DAY.

			Provo, April 3, 1913.
	The 17th of March anniversary exercises
of the Utah Stake Relief Society were held
in the stake tabernacle, President Martha
A. F. Keeler presiding.
	After the opening exercises President
Keeler delivered a greeting from President
Emmeline B. Wells; spoke on the past his-
tory of the Relief Society, and stated that
the program had been arranged to do honor
to Sisters Marilla Daniels, Percia Bunnell,
and Agnes Farrer, who have labored faith-
fully for many years in this organization.
	A vocal solo was rendered by W. D. 
Roberts.
	Sketches of the lives of the three guests
of honor were given by Mrs. Pearl Daniels
Thomas, Mrs. Melissa Bunnell Williams,
and Mrs. Zella Farrer Stubbs.
	Sisters Daniels, Bunnell and Farrer were
each presented with a post card album, and 
were showered with post cards bearing sen-
timents of the greatest esteem. The sisters
thus honored responded briefly, and related
many incidents of their experience in the
early days of Relief Society work. The 
musical exercises, in charge of stake Relief
Society choir director Mrs. Salt, were a
very pleasing feature of the program. 
Stake President Joseph B. Keeler added
a few words of appreciation of the labors
of Relief Society workers. After the bene-
diction refreshments were served.
			MARY E. ASHWORTH,
			Corresponding Secretary.

	MARILLA MILLER DANIELS.

	Read by Mrs. Pearl Daniels Thomas.
	Sister Marilla Miller Daniels was born
October 12, 1830, in Haddam, Middlesex
County, Conn. Her father Aaron Johnson
and her mother Zerviah Kelsey, joined the
Church in 1836, and in the following spring
left their home, associations and all ties of
kindred for the gospel sake, traveling over-
land through central New York to Kirtland,
Ohio; this being the first place appointed


for the gathering of the Saints, and here
their first Temple was built. The first time
she ever saw the Prophet Joseph Smith was
at a fast meeting held in the Kirtland Tem-
ple in 1837, when he addressed the Saints. 
One would have to see him in order to un-
derstand the glorious inspiration that over-
shadowed him. The impression that he
made upon her mind at that time has never
left her, although she is now in her 83rd
year. And many times after that she en-
joyed the privilege of hearing him speak
and has never doubted the divinity of his 
mission. Her family were quite intimate
with the Prophet Joseph, and his family, as
neighbors, living only across the street from
each other. In the early spring of 1838 her
father’s family arrived in Far West, Mo.,
but they were only permitted to remain
there until March of the following year, on
account of the exterminating order of Gov.
Boggs, for them to leave the state. In the 
spring of 1839 they again left their home
and moved to Commerce, Illinois, which
was afterward called Nauvoo. Here her
father built three houses and they remained
there seven years. She has a distinct recol-
lection of the martyrdom of the Prophet and
his brother Hyrum, and the terrible scenes
enacted at that time. At the age of four-
teen years she was teaching school in Nau-
voo to about thirty pupils, and our President
Joseph F. Smith, also others of Brother
Hyrum’s family, were among them. Here
she met and married William Miller, the
ceremony being performed in the Nauvoo
Temple. In the spring of 1849 she left for
Utah, her husband being captain of the com-
pany. They arrived in Salt Lake in Sep-
tember of the same year, remaining there
one year. Her husband William Miller
founded the town of Springville and they
in company with her father’s family settled
there, living there ten years. Her mother
and only brother died of cholera on the 
plains in 1850 and were buried by the road-
side. This was a terrible blow to her as
she was anxiously awaiting the arrival of 
her mother and other relatives. In 1860 her
husband was called to act as President of
Utah stake, which necessitated their mov-
ing to Provo, where she has since resided.
Her husband died Aug. 7, 1875. Some
years later she married James E. Daniels.
She has been identified with the Relief So-
ciety ever since its first organization in
Utah. She has led a very active life and 
devoted much time to public work, having 
been a teacher in the Theological class of 
the Sunday School for a period of nineteen
years; was president and also a teacher of
the Primary association in her ward; was
also first counselor to Mary John in the 
Utah Stake Relief Society for many years.
In September, 1892, she was appointed as
president of the World’s Fair commission
for Utah county, and worked most assidu-
ously to make a success of the World’s Fair
exhibit from Utah, traveling and organiz-
ing clubs throughout the county. For sev-
eral years she acted as vice president of the
Woman Suffrage Association of Utah
county, and was sent as a delegate to the
27th annual convention of the National
American Suffrage Association, held in At-
lanta, Ga. After the death of President
Mary John, Sister Daniels was honorably
released from the presidency of the Relief
Society and was appointed as an honorary
counselor and member of the stake board
which position she now holds.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		PERCIA BUNNELL.

	Read by Mrs. Melissa Bunnell Williams.
	Sister Percia Grover Bunnell, daughter
of Thomas Grover and Caroline Nickerson,
was born December 27, 1841, in Nauvoo,
Ill. She lived there with her parents until
she was five years old, when they left for
the Rocky Mountains with the first company
of pioneers. While crossing the Mississippi
river February, 1846, in a ferry boat, one of 
her grandfather’s oxen jumped overboard.
In jumping around he knocked a board
from the bottom of the boat, which sank im-
mediately. Grandfather signalled another
boat which came to their rescue. They were 
all soaked through—bedding, provisions and 
everything in the wagon. Notwithstanding
this misfortune not one received any ill
effects. The journey was continued as far
as Pisgah, but after arriving there, on ac-
count of the few teams and heavily loaded
wagons, it was decided that the families be
divided and part sent back to Nauvoo.
Grandmother and her children were among
this number. The following September
they started again with mother’s grand-
parents, Grandmother Grover having a
young babe but twenty-four hours old. After
traveling two hundred miles sickness befell
them and great-grandfather and three sons
died, leaving grandmother and her mother
with five small children to care for. They
resumed their journey as far as Council
Bluffs, when they were again detained for
want of means. So grandmother stayed
there, taking in washing, sewing, nursing
the sick, or anything she could get to do.
They stayed there until 1850, when grand-
father sent means for them to come to the
valley. They arrived in Salt Lake City in 
September, 1850, having suffered many
hardships on their journey. They lived
there two years, grandmother teaching
school for support. In 1852 she moved to
Provo, where she has since lived. Mother
and father were married in 1856; they had
twelve children, four of whom are living.
Mother suffered all the hardships incident
to pioneer life. She attended the first Re-
lief Society organized in Provo, acted as
teacher in the Third ward seven years; also
was appointed president of the teachers in
Lake View ward. In 1878 was chosen pres-
ident of the Lake View Relief Society,
which position she held six years. In 1901
was chosen second counselor to Sister Mary
John and labored as such until Sister John's
death, when she was honorably released and 
chosen an an aid, where she still labors. She 
has always been ready to help the poor,
nurse the sick, and although she is 71 years
old, continues in this good work. 

		AGNES STRONG FARRER.

		Read by Zella Farrer Stubbs.
	Agnes Strong Farrer is the daughter of
John Strong and Agnes Miller. She was

[Column 2]
born October 3, 1837, in Kendal, Westmor-
land, England. In 1846 she was baptized a
member of the Church by her father John 
Strong, who was president of the branch.
	Grandma with her parents left England
and walked across the plains and landed in
Utah October 28, 1855. In 1856 they moved 
to Provo and in 1857 she married Roger
Farrer, and they have resided here ever
since. Grandma is the noble mother of nine
children, six of whom are living. She has
always been a Church worker in different
organizations; a teacher in the Sunday
School and counselor in the Primary for
fifteen years.
	The first Relief Society meeting she at-
tended in 1870 she was called upon to sing
and pray, and this was the beginning of her
interest in this organization. She was set
apart as teacher and labored in that capacity 
many years. She was appointed president
of the teachers, also an aid on the stake 
board. She was for the last seven years a
member of the Utah Stake Relief Society
Board, acting as chorister for that organiza-
tion.
	She has always been a regular attendant
of Relief Society gatherings and an ardent
worker therein. Her labor has been one of
love and pleasure, and her influence for
good is always felt wherever she goes. She
is a strong, most beautiful character and 
can see the good that is in each person.
	By her smile, how soon the stranger and
friend knows, it is not of herself she is
thinking, not of herself but of others—an
example for us all. She is a Saint of cheer-
ful spirit, Saint of days and nights. She 
shall sit in heavenly places and have her 
heart's desire.
	God bless our dear, sweet and soul-inspir-
ing mothers and grandmothers whose di-
vinely human interest and love have given
us our glorious nation.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Mrs. Luella B. Johnston, of Sacramento,
Cal., is believed to be the first and only
woman yet chosen as a commissioner by
any city which has adopted the commission
form of government. Sacramento is proud
of her, and prominent citizens put up the
money to have in the California section of
the Washington parade two banners, one
reading, “Sacramento, the Heart of Cali-
fornia and the Capital of the State,” and
another, “Women of Sacramento voted
commission plan and elected only woman
commissioner in world. Under her admin-
stration as commissioner of education,
school, health and sanitary conditions have
become ideal.”—Exchange.

	“Something has really happened in Cali-
fornia. The men have learned that the .
women have waked up.”


R. K. THOMAS CO., 	67-60 MAIN STREET,
                                     	SALT LAKE CITY.
	The most becoming Styles in Ladies'
	Suits, Coats, Dresses, Skirts, and 
	Waists at Popular Prices.
THE STORE WHERE YOU CAN FEEL AT HOME


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Organ of the Latter-day Saints' Woman's Relief Society.
