Vol. 41.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST, 1913	No. 9.


CONTENTS.
Aunt Esther ’s Sweetheart...............................	65
Class in Nursing and Obstetrics.....................	67
Relief Society Reports:
	Box Elder Stake......................................	70
	Oneida Stake...........................................	71
	North Sanpete Stake...............................	71
	Ogden Stake...........................................	72
Editoral:
	Ramblings...............................................	68
	International Council of Women............	68
	Special Correspondence.........................	68
	Relief Society Nurse School...................	69
	The Value of Our Class Work.................	69
Obituary—Louisa Alexander...........................	67
Notes...............................................................	72
Poetry:
	I Dreamed a Dream........Lydia D. Alder	67
	Idols...............Charlotte Perkins Gilman	70


[Column 1]
AUNT ESTHER’S SWEETHEART.
“Auntie,” said a beautiful young girl in an
absent-minded sort of way, turning half
round on the piano stool, and without rais-
ing her eyes from the floor, “I’m tired of
this sort of thing I want a change. Can’t we
go somewhere, or give a party? Can’t you
suggest some amusement to pass away the
time? Why, I’ve not even had a letter for
days, and that stupid brother of mine is
having a jolly time of it at Harvard, while
I’m here at home, day after day going
through the same dull routine. Oh, I’m
weary I’d even like to get married, if I
could have an offer that suited me!”
	“Is that all, Alice? Have you no other
complaints to make?” said her self-pos-
sessed aunt in reply. The girl looked a little
crest fallen, and without a word turned
round and went on with her practicing. Her
aunt, who was a wise and thoughtful wo-
man, continued her sewing as if nothing
had been said. A long silence followed,
though the truth was Aunt Esther didn’t
know exactly what answer to make. It
was altogether new for her niece to burst
forth so excitedly and it took the quaint
little lady by surprise.
	Alice sat playing a while longer, then
came forward towards the fire, which 
was burning brightly, and seating herself com-
fortably in a low rocker in the corner, be-
gan to stir the coals with a poker—a cus- 
tom many people have when perplexed. The
equanimity of her aunt was too much for
her she wanted her to speak, say she had
been rude, then she would have apologized
but to see her sit there so complacently,
stitching away, taking no notice of her vexa-
tion was unbearable to one so impulsive.
Finally she burst out again:
	“Auntie, we are always going on in this
humdrum way, for all the world like two
old maids? You are not old if you are a
widow, and I,—well, I’m just twenty-two,
and have never yet had a real beau I want
some attention, some companionship.”
	“My dear,” said her aunt, “how long is it
since we came home from the sea shore,
“where you danced, and waltzed, and sang
and took in all the gaieties of the season,
until you were tired, and wanted to come
home to the Wren’s Nest? Isn’t that so?”

[Column 2]
	“Yes auntie, I did want to come home,
thanks to your judicious training, because
there was so much deception and hypocrisy-
there, and such ‘shilly shally’ girls and un-
principled young men and old ones too for
that matter, and mercenary, managing mam-
mas, and all that. It was simply disgusting
to sensible people.”
	“And that was society, Alice, the best
society, so we were informed, and certainly,
if wealth and extravagance are the stand-
ards by which the ‘best society’ is estimated
it must have been.”
	“Yes, auntie, they were rich I suppose,
and they were proud and arrogant but they
were also ill-bred, some of them at least.
Oh, I learned some lessons in the ways of
the world that I shall never forget and I
did not hesitate to tell one young lady, who
carried on a flirtation under my very eyes,
what my mother would have thought of her
conduct, and she begged me to keep the
matter a secret. But a truce to all this
we’ve talked of these things before. I am
positively pining for some one to talk to. I
know you’re good company, and always
amiable, but there is no variety in our way
of living. We’ve got lots of relatives, let’s
go and visit some of them, while Harry’s in
college. When he comes home everything
will be different. He can take us out, and
we shall have more society it won’t be near
so lonely here then he’s always so lovely.”
	“Alice, about the country cousins. Do
you remember where we used to visit when
you and they were children ?”
	“Yes, I recollect some of those quaint old
places up among the New England hills
they’re very nice in summer time, but how
about winter—how would it be then?”
	“There’s skating and sleigh-riding, and
winter pastimes of course. Yet you must
choose, it is for your pleasure we shall go.”
	“Aunt Esther, are there any young peo-
ple at these places you think of—would
it be interesting in that way?”
	“In what way, Alice?”
	“Why, don’t you understand? Would
there be any love-making, or any chance
of getting a good husband?”
	“Alice, you astonish me. Yet just now,
you were deprecating the ways of those
girls at the sea-shore, and now you are talk-
ing in much the same strain.”
	“But I’m in earnest I am going to mar-
ry some great, big-hearted, honest, young
fellow, that has never been in society, such
as I had a glimpse of last season and that
reminds me, auntie, that you have had a
kind of romance in your life. I’ve heard
Polly say so and you never say a word
about it, nor your married life either, though
for that matter I never asked you—never
thought of it in fact until now. Will you
tell me the story? It must be interesting a
chapter out of your history.”
	Before Aunt Esther had time to reply
to all this rapid questioning a knock was
heard at the parlor door and in came Polly
with a handful of letters, and in the excite-
ment Alice forgot what she had said to her

[Column 3]
dear little auntie, as she called her, and be-
gan examining the postmark, a habit with
women, it is said.
	Here’s such a queer stamp; I do won-
der where this letter’s from; some rich old
uncle, I hope, asking us to come for the 
holidays,” exclaimed Alice.
	Then she took up the one she knew to
be from her brother, and hurriedly broke
the seal. While she sat reading it and tap
ping her dainty feet on the carpet, every
now and then, a way she had when over-
joyed, Aunt Esther was busy perusing a
letter that looked even more foreign than the
one Alice had laid down.
	In the midst of the reading, a carriage
drove up, and visitors were announced—
Mrs. and Mr. Elmore and their two daugh-
ters and the letters were put aside
	The two ladies busied themselves enter-
taining their guests during the remainder of
the afternoon. The Elmores were neigh-
bors of theirs, and very nice people indeed.
	The girls were near Alice’s age and were
both bright and clever. The afternoon sped
swiftly away, and Alice had actually for-
gotten the letters, so absorbed was she with
the conversation of their visitors. Aunt
Esther urged their guests to stay and dine
with them, waiving ceremony and they fin-
ally consented. So that it was nine o’clock
or there abouts before they were alone again.
The evening had been a pleasant one and
Alice was in the best of spirits, having
thoroughly enjoyed the society of these
neighbors, who had so much to say that was
worth listening to. One of the young ladies
was a fine singer and was much admired
by Harry, who was passionately fond of
music, as indeed were Aunt Esther and Al-
ce. Miss Elmore had been singing, dur-
ing the evening one of Aunt Esther’s old
favorites that had carried her back in mem-
ory to her girlhood days, and these words
of the song, kept ringing in her ears:

“Oh no, we never mention him, his name is never
	heard,
My lips are now forbid to speak that once fa-
	miliar word.”

	Aunt Esther, so calm and self-contented
to all appearance, would have given almost
anything to have been alone for a few
minutes that she might weep to relieve her
pent-up feelings but even when the guests
had departed, Alice was still there, and she
must not give way.
	The reading of the letters was resumed,
and for a while silence reigned. What a
pretty picture the two ladies made in that
elegant room—Alice was tall and slender in
figure, a perfect blonde in complexion, and
this evening she wore a dress of soft, pale
blue merino, trimmed with dainty lace and
as she sat reading, one might have gazed
in admiration “and turned and come again
to take his fill,” of her rare beauty. Every
now and then she spoke to auntie and her
countenance brightened, as she repeated
some of Harry’s witty and shrewd com-
ments upon his college life. Aunt Esther


[Column 1]
was one of those peculiar types of women
so difficult to describe that we term them
“a perfect study”; small in figure, dark, al-
most olive complexion, purplish or blue
hair, large grey eyes. Many people
considered her plain, but she was at-
tractive, and possessed that indescri-
bable charm, which for want of a
better term we call magnetic. This eve-
ning she wore a grey dress, of some soft
material, trimmed with scarlet velvet; and
bending over her letters she looked as much
a picture, as the young girl who sat op-
posite. Alice chanced to notice it and as-
tonished her by saying; “Aunt Esther, you
look so charming tonight, your very soul
seems to be looking forth out of your eyes.
I wish you had a sweetheart, it’s such a
lonely life to live; how long since Uncle
Herbert died?”
	“Ten years and over,” replied the little
woman, without lifting her eyes. Sometimes
her voice sounded strangely to Alice, and
as she looked she saw tears fall upon the
letter her aunt had been reading, but seemed
to have dropped from her hand. Alice
knew her aunt was undemonstrative, and
she would not inquire what made her sad,
but thought it was her ill-timed allusion to
her uncle’s death. Little she knew the chord
she had touched, that made such discord
in the heart of this staid and demure little
woman.
	The letters were finished and both ladies
drew nearer to the fire and resumed con-
versation, as all do who love each other, just
before separation for the night.
	“Alice, my dear, was your unknown let-
ter from some rich uncle—an invitation for
the holidays?”
	“No aunt, it was from old Mr. Brown,
whom we met at the seaside last summer,
and funniest of all (for you remember I
snubbed him) it contained an offer of mar-
riage, the first one I ever had. Audacious
fellow, he tells me he loves me, and that he
is worth half a million, all in one paragraph.
I wouldn’t marry him if he were worth
three millions; he’s a scoundrel, been in
society thirty years or more, and divorced
his wife. Marry old Brown? I’d rather be
an old maid and stay with you all my days,
auntie. You’ll never marry again, I don’t
suppose, though you’re much more fascinat-
ing than most young girls, and know a great
deal more. Is that the reason they call
widows dangerous, I wonder? I’ve often
heard the expression. I couldn’t imagine
why it was used, for you are the only young
widow I have ever really been acquainted
with, and I’m sure you are the most in-
offensive and reserved, and the very best
little auntie in all the world.” As she fin-
shed her remark she rose and threw her
arms around Aunt Esther’s neck, and de-
luged her with kisses.
	When Polly came in to inquire what or-
ders her mistress had to give, before retir-
ing, Mrs. Danforth replied, “Nothing, to-
night, but we are going away in a day or
two, so all our plans will be changed and
we can dispense with some of the help for
the present. Polly, would you like to go
anywhere on a visit?”
	“No, Mrs. Danforth, I will stay and take
care of the house while you’re absent, and
Ben, of course you’ll retain him for outside
work. We two can do very well, and it will
save some expense.”
	“All right, Polly, it’s very kind of you to

[Column 2]
be so careful on my account; then I think
we shall pack up tomorrow, and go away
the next morning. Good-night Polly.”
	“Alice,” said her aunt when they were
alone again, “I think I shall go to my sis-
ter’s in M—. Do you remember the fa-
mous, rambling, old country house with the
great wide porches? It was called ‘The
Meadows.’”
	“You mean Aunt Jane’s? I remember
it a little; we used to play under the great
elm trees. Wasn’t there a lot of children?”
	“Seven, I believe, and they are none of
them married: You will not be lonely with
all those young people; at any rate we’ll try
it; I have not been there for many years,
never since my widowhood;” and Aunt
Esther paused for a moment, the word
seemed to stick in her throat.
	“It’s a long way off, and we need not
wait to send them word. I am sure of a
welcome, for your Uncle William is one
of the most hospitable men I have ever
known.”
	“Then, auntie, that’s settled, and I want
you to tell me that romantic story of your
own life, Polly knows something about it,
so of course, there is a story.”
	“What nonsense has Polly been filling
your foolish little head with? Some ser-
vant’s gossip I suppose?”
	“Oh, no, Aunt Esther, this is quite dif-
ferent, and if you don’t promise to tell me
I shall ask Polly before we go to Aunt
Jane’s, because one day she said to me long
ago: ‘Alice, you’re a lovely girl, but not so
attractive as your Aunt Esther was; she has
a history;’ and I wonder, auntie. that I never
have teased you to tell me the story.”
	“Do you see?” said her aunt, pointing
to the clock on the mantel “it is after mid-
night, and we shall have a great deal to do
tomorrow. You really must go to bed now,
and forget all this foolishness about your
auntie. It is quite enough for you to know
me as I am now and to judge me upon
my real merits, and not to listen to Polly’s
insinuations. She’s over fond of me, and
her imagination carries her away some-
times.”
	Alice was sleepy, and therefore bade her
aunt good-night willingly; and Esther Dan-
forth sat there alone brooding over the past
that had been so vividly recalled to her
mind that day. It seemed as though that
letter had brought the past with it, not only
to Esther herself, but Polly and Alice
seemed full of the same reminiscences. She
would not acknowledge to herself that she
had been persuaded to marry for money,
though the world said so, the world in which
she revolved; and tonight as she sat think-
ing she drew the letter from her pocket, the
letter that had excited Polly’s curiosity,
and which seemed to have changed her plans
suddenly.
	“Shall I burn it?” she said to herself. “I
scarcely dare keep it, I am sure Polly recog-
nized the writing,” and as she soliloquised
thus she opened the letter and was again
perusing its contents.
	Looking over her shoulder we might
easily read it too, for she held it wide open,
and gazed as if entranced. It ran thus:
“My Precious Darling:
	“I shall sail for America in a few days;
have made definite arrangements; shall
go by way of London to transact some busi-
ness there, and then for Boston. In a

[Column 3]
few hours after arriving, I shall come to
you, and learn my fate. I can no longer
endure this dreadful suspense. It is years
since I wrote you that first impassioned
letter, after I learned that you were free—
free from that terrible bondage of the heart.
You answered me as though you were an
icicle, or that your heart was frozen; but I
know you better; you are mine; and your
own heart will bear you witness when you
read these burning words. You cannot for-
get if you would, the glorious past, the rec-
ollection of which has hung over me, during
all these years of banishment, like a rain-
bow of promise. I have still the pledge
of your devotion, given me on that May
morning, when we plighted our troth under
the apple boughs and I shall never part
with it. The last time I wrote you an-
swered me in doubt—it gave me some en-
couragement, because you said, ‘Wait, when
the children I have charge of are not de-
pendent upon me for a home, I may con-
sider your proposal.’ Must duty to the
children of your dead brother forever debar
you from fulfilling the pledge of your love
to the living—to one who has waited for
you all these years—that he might take you
to his heart and shelter you there forever
and ever? Esther, I am coming, and from
your own sweet lips, I must hear the words
that shall decide my fate, my further life.
Disguise your true self as you may to others,
you cannot deceive me, by my own strength
of affection, I measure yours, I will ask
you to answer me here, it would be too
long to wait should you say, yes, and so—
farewell until we shall meet, sweetheart,
dearest.
		“Your old sweetheart,
				“SIDNEY MANNING.”
	Poor Aunt Esther, she read the letter
again and again, and her tears poured hot
and fast. She sobbed as if her heart would
break.
	“What shall I say to him when he comes?
How can I meet him again after all these
years? I dare not confess my love, that
has outlived everything. I will not see
him, I will go away; I shall not be able
to withstand his pleadings!”
	Nothwithstanding her mental resolve,
she folded up the letter that had caused all
this tumult of feeling and put it in her bos-
om, and as she passed out of the room and
ascended the stairway, she moaned and
every now and then she leaned her head
upon the balustrade and would have fal-
len but for its support. Little sleep for her
that night while Alice, who was wholly
heart-pure, slept the sweet sleep of youth
and innocence. How true the poet’s words:
Tired nature’s sweet restorer, balmy sleep, he like
	the world,
His ready visit pays, where fortune smiles; the
	wretched he forsakes,
Swift on his downy pinions, flies from grief
And lights on lids unsullied with a tear.”
	The household were early astir the next
morning, for Polly, the faithful friend, had
been almost as wakeful as her mistress, and
the day was a busy one with preparations
for the journey and the necessary change.
The trunks were packed and strapped, and
traveling bags made ready, and Esther Dan-
forth, like one in a dream, went from room
to room, to see that all was safe.
	“This was his house,” she muttered un-
der her breath, my husband’s,” and a cold


[Column 1]
shiver ran through her veins. “I was al-
most persuaded to leave it once, but my
good angel stood by and saved me; and
Polly, dear, good girl, she helped me to bear
it all. I came here a bride from the church
door, with showers of congratulations.
What a wretched creature I was; with my
beating heart and my broken vows, and
Sidney—I did not even dare to think what
would become of him. I was young then,
so very young to be an old man’s bride;
and he knew I did not love him, but he was
ever kind, too kind, and he left all his wealth
to me—only I must not marry Sidney Man-
ning—there it is, in his will, and it was read
that day, when all the family were there.
What a reproach to me, and how they all
stared, until I fainted; I must not marry
Sidney Manning. No, though my heart
should break; not because of the money—
what do I care for the money? Yet it has
been a blessing to my brother’s children,
left orphaned and destitute,”—and Esther
Danforth sank upon her knees, there alone
in the pale moonlight, beseeching heaven
to guide her footsteps. And her prayer
was answered.
	The journey occupied two days and
nights for those were not the times of steam
and rapid transit. At the close of the sec-
ond day, they reached their destination. It
was a bright, clear, moonlight night, and the
great wide-spreading elms stretched out
their branches, as if to welcome and shelter
them. The greetings were affectionate, and
Alice was quite delighted with the reception
she received; it was so genuine and cor-
dial. The travelers were tired and glad to
go rather early to bed, especially as they
were aware that, as they were in the coun-
try, they would be expected to rise early.
	Time passed quickly with Alice; there
was so much that was new and pleasant,
and three young men, her cousins, vied
with each other in planning fresh surprises
for her amusement.
	Aunt Esther was visiting in a quiet way
with her sister, from whom she had been so
long separated; there were many things
to tell each other, and it was nearing Christ-
mas, and a grand party was to be given in
honor of Mrs. Danforth and her niece.
	Aunt Jane, as Mrs. Wetherell was called
was half sister only to Aunt Esther and Al-
ice’s father, and was some years older. She
was a very estimable woman, and religious
in her nature; had studied the Bible and 
sought to comprehend its meaning. Of late
a new light had shown across her pathway,
and she had been so impressed with the
divine source from which it came, that she
was making a careful and prayerful ex-
amination of the teachings she had received,
from the messengers who came to her with
glad tidings. Her husband was investigat-
ing the doctrine too and ere long they un-
folded to Aunt Esther the view they enter-
tained. Contrary to their expectation, she
seemed to grasp these new truths more
quickly than they had done, and it was a
confirmation to them, that the doctrine was
from heaven.
	Aunt Esther had gone into the country
place with a broken heart, asking help from
one above, and so completely humble was
she, that she was ready to receive heavenly
truths; in fact, she scarcely needed preach-
ing to, her mind was so clear on the sub-
ject presented to her by her sister and her
husband.

[Column 2]
	The young men were most favorably im-
pressed with the new doctrines, and had
talked to Alice about the everlasting Gos-
pel, but none of them as yet had been bap-
tized. They were waiting for some El-
ders, who were shortly to pay them a visit
and preach to the people in that vicinity.
The “Mormon” Elders soon came to
M—, and Mr. Wetherell, who was a man
of considerable influence, tried to get a hall
or meetinghouse for them to preach in; but
he met with many obstacles in his efforts
that he had not previously anticipated; jeal-
ousy and tradition were rife in the hearts
of those who were opposed, and the good
man at last decided that the meetings should
be at his own place, “The Meadows.” The
house was large and roomy and he had ex-
pected to entertain as his guests, those who
would come to preach and baptize. All
the people in the neighborhood were cordial-
ly invited, and many came to the meetings,
and some who were converts were baptized
and confirmed, after two days meetings had
been held.
	Among those who were baptized were,
Mr. and Mrs. Wetherell, Mrs. Danforth and
Alice Maynard and the three sons and four
daughters of the host and hostess of “The
Meadows.” There were eight others bap-
tized and many more believing.
	Among the latter was a young man whom
Miss Alice greatly admired, and he had al-
ready shown her some marked attention,
and her resolve to marry some honest big-
hearted fellow was in a fair way of fulfill-
ment. He was of fine figure, large and well-
proportioned, and his education had not
been neglected even though he was a farm-
er’s son, and had lived among the New
England hills. He rather astonished Miss
Alice one day by telling her he had never
been in Boston; but she recovered herself
quickly and replied, she was glad of it; not
but that she was proud of Boston, too, but
somehow she liked him better as he was;
better than she ever thought she could like
any of the young men she had met at the
capital.
		(TO BE CONTINUED.)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


CLASS IN OBSTETRICS AND NURSING.
	Dr. Ellis R. Shipp has announced the
opening of her class in obstetrics and nurs-
ing for Monday, Oct. 6. This is the thirty-
fourth annual announcement, by which we
can readily see that much experience in
teaching along these lines makes one most
efficient.
	Dr. Shipp’s classes have always been most
popular and hundreds of graduates from
her classes are now successful practitioners
in different parts of the country. There is
always a need of good midwives and nurses,
especially in newly settled districts, and the
fact that Dr. Shipp’s graduates are exam-
ned by the state medical board, from whom
they receive their certificates, is sufficient
guarantee of their fitness for their high
calling. We trust the class of 1913-14 will
be equally as successful as heretofore.


I DREAMED A DREAM.
I dreamed a dream of love
	And O ’twas wondrous fair
Glad sunlight from above,
	Was glinting everywhere,
And in that fairy land,
	Wherein dwelt love with me,
Was faith and trust above,—
	No thought of treachery.
My lover was the king,
	Beside him, I, his queen;
O could there anything
	More beautiful have been?
For all the world was love,
	And all the world was fair;
Like cooing of a dove,
	The whispering breezes there.
But O, the dream hath fled!
	Awakening sense of pain,
Has brought me loss instead
	Of love’s own sweet refrain,
My boyish lover’s face
	Is stern and older grown;
And scarcely can I trace,
	The lovelight on my own.
It is the serpent’s trail,
	That once o’er Eden fell;
Turned love songs to a wail
	And broke the fairy spell.
O, years that come and go,
	Bring back my love to me!
Ye breezes soft and low,
	Tell of my constancy.
Let not the poisoned dart
	Cast by that cruel hand,
Still rankle in his heart,
	Insidiously though fanned,
O, brush away the years,
	We boy and girl are still,
Forget the heartaches--tears,
	Let joy our lives o’er fill.
				LYDIA D. ALDER.


OBITUARY.
	Sister Lovisa Alexander, of the Relief
Society presidency of Wasatch stake, has
been taken from the midst of loving friends
and family by the hand of death. She was
greatly honored for her gentle and generous
nature and will be sadly missed.
	Lovisa Alexander, wife of C. M. Alexan-
der of Heber, and daughter of George G.
Snyder and Sarah Hatch, was born at Sac-
ramento, California, on February 25, 1854.
On December 26, 1871, she married C. M.
Alexander in Salt Lake City, after which
the couple moved to Wasatch county, where
they have resided continuously to the pres-
ent time. Mrs. Alexander was the mother
of ten children, six of whom are still living.
	She was one of the Relief Society presi-
dency in the stake for fifteen years and
always took an active interest in church
affairs.
	RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Resolutions adopted by the officers of the
Stake Relief Society organization of the
Wasatch stake of Zion, in honor of Sister
Lovisa Alexander:
	Whereas, The Lord in His wisdom has


called from our midst by the hand of death,
our beloved sister, Lovisa Alexander, and
	Whereas, We recognize in Sister Alexan-
der a faithful, efficient and consistent Relief
Society worker, and that in her departure,
not only our organization but the entire
community has sustained a severe loss
therefore, be it
	Resolved, That we express to the bereaved
family, who have lost a kind and affectionate
wife and mother, our sincere and heartfelt
sympathy and condolence, and further
	Resolved, That as an expression of our
love and esteem, these resolutions be spread
on our minutes; a copy thereof presented to
the family, and to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT
for publication.
Signed: WASATCH STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

				Woman’s Exponent

	EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop’s
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH,		-	AUGUST, 1913


[Column 1]
			RAMBLINGS.
	We have found much satisfaction and
have been greatly interested in visiting
among the several stakes of Zion during the
present year. Prosperity seems to attend
the efforts made by the Relief Society sisters,
and we feel there has been more effort put
forth than during any other previous year.
The genealogical work that has been intro-
duced in some of the stakes has awakened
a deep interest in temple work, which in con-
nection with the great variety of other sub-
jects already undertaken, opens up quite a
wide field, and certainly will promote a ten-
dency towards stronger testimonies of the
far-reaching truths taught and brought forth
in this day and age of the world by the
Prophet Joseph Smith.
	It is educational in the best sense to travel
among the people in these valleys and wit-
ness what has been accomplished in a mate-
rial way by the men and women who are
cultivating the soil, building homes in far-
away places, and in the truest sense making
the desert blossom as the rose.
	How diligent and faithful they have been,
is apparent in the appearance of the beau-
tiful gardens and farms, orchards and mead-
ows, and the prosperous and busy settle-
ments one sees on every side.
	Truly the blessing of the Lord has been
shown this people in their labors, and Zion
will rise and shine as the prophets have fore-
told.
	Throughout the various places we have
journeyed this year, greater prosperity
seems to prevail than we could possibly have
anticipated, knowing the difficulties our peo-
ple have had to encounter to secure water
privileges and cultivate arid lands. To be
sure, the men have been diligent and un-
ceasing, or so much could not have been
accomplished. Everywhere we journeyed
we realized how much men have done in
improving the country, in tilling the soil and
making homes; settling towns and villages,
and all this while complying with all the
requirements of citizenship and family obli-
gations. Truly, the Latter-day Saints are a
wonderful people. There have been no such
tests and problems worked out anywhere
else; and this teaches us, that we should im-
press the fact upon our children and their
children, that the Lord is blessing His peo-
ple and Zion is being established, and will
eventually, with the assistance of those who
serve Him, make America the promised

[Column 2]
land, and fulfill the prophecies concerning
this wondrous nation. Meantime, though
men plow, sow and reap now as ever, wom-
en, wives, mothers, and daughters have been
alert and active in bringing to pass the
transfiguration of this desert country and
making it in all its uncultivated barrenness
a desirable place to dwell in, with com-
forts and advantages too many to enum-
erate in one brief epistle.
	Everywhere we travel in this mountain
region we find women’s work apparent, and
industry and skill supplement the home
labor done by the women of the household.
	Throughout the land wherever our people
have settled and made homes there is an
appearance of thriftiness noticeable, and
although we may say it is an indication of
the training received, yet it is in the very
nature of things marvelous.
	True, the Latter-day Saints are certainly
enterprising in building up the waste places,
and now in the far West, stretching from
north to south, over mountains and across
wide deserts, the Saints are manifesting ex-
traordinary courage and fortitude in explor-
ing and making beautiful and ideal homes.	
	This people do not boast of what has been
done, but rest content if they are permitted
to enjoy the rights and privileges of citizen-
ship in this glorious land of liberty.
	Wherever the Latter-day Saints reside,
in all their abiding places, they are hospita-
ble and kind, not only to those of their own
faith, but to all.


[Column 1]
	INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF
			WOMEN.
	Preparatory to the Quinquennial which
will be held in 1914 in Rome, congresses of
women are being held in different cities of
the world, where committees of different
departments are appointed and their work
outlined. At Paris, The Hague, Budapest
and Vienna, conferences have already been
held and later each national council will hold
one for special appointments and work. The
United States national council will be held
in October at Port Huron, Mich., and will
be a most important gathering of American
women, for then will be selected the repre-
sentatives from this country to the Interna-
tional at Rome. The International execu-
tive meeting was held last May at The
Hague, where all the councils were reported
by their respective presidents.
	It may be interesting to note that the na-
tional president for the United States, Mrs.
Kate Waller Barrett, in her report, gave a
paragraph to Utah in which she told of her
visit to the state legislature and her impres-
sions when witnessing women as law
makers.
	The great suffrage meeting this year was
held at Budapest and noted women from
all over the world were in attendance. From
America were Carrie Chapman Catt, Ida
Husted Harper, Flo Jennison Miller, Char-
lotte Perkins Gilman, May Wright Sewall
and many other strong and brilliant women.
During the months of July the great Peace
Congress was held at The Hague, where
Mrs. Sewall was one of the most conspic-
uous figures. The following letter tells
most accurately the work of that conference.
Peace and Arbitration are the very impor-
tant subjects the national councils have

[Column 2]
always before them, and naturally one in
which women are most vitally interested:
	“This is the great exposition year in Hol-
land. Every city is in gala dress and to this
festive circumstance is added the very ro-
mantic occasion of opening the Palace of
Peace, where the supernational court of jus-
tice will soon reign. Stead proclaimed The
Hague the ‘capital of the world,’ and in this
role it will receive the twentieth universal
peace congress, every municipality joining,
and his royal highness, Prince Henry, tak-
ing the protectorate. This is the first time
a royal personage has done such a thing,
and it commands the respect of the Euro-
pean leaders, who a decade before could
only scoff at peace congresses. The pro-
gram lasts from August 18-23.
	“Holland is the proudest and most demo-
cratic gem that crests the North sea. It is
the one international state which has given
life to every progressive act of history which
has chosen her flowery canaled mainland as
a starting point—including the Pilgrim
Fathers. Little Holland has dared play the
biggest roles in history. The internationalist
feels at home there, and pacifists love it as
their fatherland. Several hundred Nether-
landers are on the committees and the twen-
tieth peace congress is looked upon as a na-
tional festival.
	“The thinkers of every country look with
amazement upon governments that expect
to settle their diplomatic and commercial
questions by chopping up innocent men with
machinery. The present military octopus
cannot be fed any other way, but the resent-
ment of the masses will soon overwhelm
these governments, and demand that public
disputes be settled with law and justice.
After all the carnage, when the ‘leave-
overs’ of the battle must flee from their
homes to escape cholera, the diplomats sit
at a distance and decide over the wires
‘what is what’ and ‘whose is whose.’
	“The twentieth peace congress will espe-
cially urge the questions of ‘A Code of In-
ternational Law,’ ‘International Police,’
‘Commercial Rivalry and International Re-
lations.’ ‘The Limitation,’ and ‘Gradual
Proportional Reduction of Armaments,’ and
in fact will offer the world through its great-
est students of the question, legal lines for
its solution. They are indeed world-patriots
who plan a substitute for human slaughter
as a means of settling national disputes.”


SPECIAL CORRESPONDENCE.
			XIX-4 Grinzinger St., 42,
					Vienna, Austria.
My Dear Friend, Emmeline B. Wells:
	Here in this distant city, dear friend, I
have just received yours of May 12th, which
reached me in Budapest a month later, hav-
ing followed my forwarding addresses from
place to place. You will see how impossi-
ble it was for me to receive it “before leav-
ing America,” for I sailed from Boston on
May 7th for Liverpool, thence going directly
to The Hague, where I arrived on May 17th
and where our work began on May 20th,
and where we remained in close work for
eleven days. In many respects our work
there was impressive and successful. This
was especially true of the work of my own
committee and of the Peace and Arbitration


[Column 1]
meeting on May 23rd, (public and splen-
did), over which I presided. It made a great
impression and received the most favorable
press notices. How much Mrs. Harper
may have said about it in her syndicate let-
ters, I do not know.
	From The Hague I went to Paris and
attended the best organized International
Congress I have ever witnessed, entirely
under the leadership of the French council.
	Thence I came on June 10th to Vienna for
a Suffrage Congress of three days, and
thence on June 14th to Budapest. Of all
the marvels of this summer’s meetings the
press at home will surely have told you. I
left Budapest on June 23rd, and with the
exception of two visits in Hungary, both at
the castle of Count Apponyi, I have been in
Vienna. Although I have had much social
enjoyment in the interstices of work, I have
been here for work—as a result four big
review articles and one three column syn-
dicate letter have gone back to our country,
some or all of which will, I hope, fall under
your vision.
	And now to our own council. Its trien-
nial will be held in Port Huron between Oct.
15 and Nov. 15. It is indeed important that
your societies, both of them, be finely and
fully represented there by all the delegates
and the alternates to which you are entitled.
assure you, my friend, our great “Council
Idea” which means the nationalization of the
womanhood of our own country, and the
internationalization of the women of the
world, has faced and does face its as-
sassins in those who should be its loyal de-
fenders and preservers.
	Port Huron is our last opportunity to re-
vive our council, lift it to its feet and start
it again on that splendid race which it ran
with courage and wisdom from 1888 to
1898, continued honestly but feebly until
1904, and with blows from without and
from within, still retains a vitality that I am
sure can be revived. I know Mrs. Miller is a
loyal council woman. I believe she would
be a good standard bearer. I know she is
courageous and I believe her to be perfectly
honest. I think very highly also of Dr.
Bower, and of course there are other splen-
did women, but they must be brought to-
gether for honest, sincere conference. Every
society must be present and present with its
best in full quota, and among the nine dele-
gates and the nine alternates to which we
are entitled in Rome next May, every sec-
tion of the country should be represented—
yours as well as every other. For the re-
vival and restoration of the Council Idea;
for its ideal of national service; for its uni-
fication of social effort; for its focusing of
scattered forces; for all these shall I, God
willing, stand and work at Port Huron—
and to work there, we must work before
going there to get every one else to be pres-
ent at what is inevitably the Council’s life
more abundant or the Council’s death.
Which shall it be? Both of your societies
share the responsibility of the answer.
	I have not until now had time to face
this question. Now, I have written you
most plainly and in utmost confidence that
you will use what I have written to help
and to heal and to bind up.
	Quite by accident I learn that my hostess
here (a very clever journalist from whom
you will probably hear in regard to “The
Society for International Amity”), who

[Column 2]
is a Christian Scientist, has been much im-
pressed with the character and ability of the
young “Mormon” men, whom she has met
in Vienna. I had told her of my intended
letter to you. This led to her commenting
on the elders of your Church whom she
has met here, and thinking that it would
please you to hear from, a Gentile of a pro-
nounced sect, such favorable comment, I
gladly repeat it here to you.
	The time is ripe for the whole world to
work for purity and for amity.
	Dear friend, continue to pray for me!
Please give my affectionate greetings to
Mrs. Gates, Mrs. Richards, all my friends
in your circle, and believe me always,
	Your affectionate friend,
			MAY WRIGHT SEWALL.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RELIEF SOCIETY NURSE SCHOOL.
	We are pleased to announce the revival of
the Relief Society Nurse School. The
Presidency and General Board have secured
the services of Dr. Margaret C. Roberts to
be physician instructor, and desire to urge
upon the officers of the Relief Society
throughout the Church to take up this mat-
ter immediately with the view of securing
young women to take this course of instruc-
tion and training in order to acquire the
profession of nursing.
	About one year ago the EXPONENT, re-
ferring editorially to Dr. Roberts’ classes in
Nursing and Obstetrics, said:
	“We are pleased to draw attention to this
fact [i. e., the existence of such classes] for
we realize that there is great need among
the people generally for nurses and mid-
wives. The Relief Society especially have
many calls which they find impossible to fill
among the laboring classes who do not ask
for charity work but feel unable to pay the
high prices of the hospital trained nurse;
furthermore, it is a great benefit to every
woman to have some knowledge of physiol-
ogy and hygiene; in fact in order to be an
intelligent and successful mother such
knowledge is absolutely necessary. We ac-
cordingly urge the sisters to assist in ob-
taining young women to take this course.
There are hundreds of graduates from Dr.
Roberts’ classes now practicing in different
localities with admirable success; and the
people everywhere are greatly benefited by
being able to obtain the services of these
efficient young women.”
	The Presidency and General Board of the
Relief Society, with the permission of the
First Presidency of the Church, have re-
newed the Nurse School with the intention
of developing it into a great Relief Society
activity.
	Circulars containing information regard-
ing this school have already been sent to the
officers of all the Relief Societies, and they
are respectfully urged to make a special
effort to secure students for this work.
	The time is short between now and the
time for opening the school—October 8,
1913—therefore it will require prompt and
earnest endeavor to secure members neces-
sary to success.
	Presidents, please give this business right
of way, and let every society try to have
representatives to attend the Nurse School.


THE VALUE OF OUR CLASS WORK.
	A paper prepared, and read by Sister Vin-
cy R. Barker at the annual conference of the
Relief Society of the Ogden stake, July 19,
1913.
	“With all thy getting get understanding.”
The Glory of God is intelligence.” Intelli-
gence is education, and education is the
harmonious development of all our powers.
As ordinarily used it is the development and
cultivation of our intellectual powers.
	The daughters of Zion, the mothers in
Israel have long hungered and thirsted for
that mental and spiritual exercise that will
help us to keep pace with our husbands
and children.
	We have been deprived of this in a great
measure by our too close application to the
cares and responsibilities of family and
home. At times we have chafed under it
while knowing that home should be the most
sacred spot on earth, yet we were lacking in
spiritual and intellectual strength to make
it so.
	Sometimes one has felt the impulse to
fly away and leave it all for very weariness,
indeed it has sometimes been positively nec-
essary to have change and activity of our.
dormant faculties. A thoughtless word, a
careless act from some loved one has been
enough to break the nervous tension and
flee we must or collapse. Too much ner-
vous strain, too little variety, overtaxation
of the physical, starvation of the mental and
spiritual, oh what a pitiful condition when
a mother feels like a prisoner in her own
home, doomed to a life of drudgery, the
same routine day by day and year after
year.
	Sisters, I know whereof I speak. We
understand by what we suffer. I had been
in some form of class work all my life until
about four years previous to the organiza-
tion of the Ogden stake. During that four
years, I have often gone out into the night
after my family were asleep, feeling that my
life was worth nothing but as a-dish washer.-
Sometimes I would walk and walk before
my pent feelings grew calm.
With each step my sad heart became lighter,
	Life’s turmoil to quell; Nature’s balm
		strove,
I returned to my home, found it brighter,
	Filled with- health, plenty, quiet and love.
	I knew that love and confidence for me
filled every heart. I thanked the Lord for
my blessings and took up my work of lov-
ing service again, but I could not drive out
of my heart the yearning for association
with others, the pining for systematic study,
the craving for broader activities which
were satisfied only when I was called to la-
bor in the class work department of the Re-
lief Society.
	It means work, oh yes ancl plenty of it!
but oh, the glorious opportunity of doing
active, effective, directed work along lines
that have been crowded out of our daily
routine; work that exercises faculties and
powers that have lain dormant so long that
many have come to believe that they do
not possess them at all. Oh the Joy that
comes to the class teacher when she sees
these powers awakening in her class. With
aroused interest a wistful longing expression
comes into the faces of the sisters; the desire
to do is approaching the inner soul is beings
reached; heart meets heart in love and sym-


[Column 1]
pathy and understanding. Sympathy is the
class teacher’s key and she feels with Elbert
Hubbard that, “No person is great who
does not possess sympathy.” Your heart
must go out to all men, the high, the low,
the rich, the poor, the learned, the unlearned,
the good, the bad, the wise, the foolish. It
is necessary to be one with them all, else you
can never understand them.
	The introduction of class work into the
Relief Society came as a boon to us all; it is
a means of education and uplift that all
may grasp and thus enlarge our horizon,
expand our sphere of usefulness and make
of ourselves what our Heavenly Father ex-
pects at our hands.
	The value of the different courses of
study is so broad that they reach every part
of us. Hygiene for middle age not only
helps those of that age to pass successfully
through that period but prepares the young
mothers for its approach by teaching them to
live now for what is before them.
	The “Young Mother’s Work” teaches
them to better understand their children and
how to direct their efforts for good, how to
play with them, and the value of play, with
the result that they keep closer to their chil-
dren; they bring themselves back to child-
hood and see things through children’s eyes,
understand with their understanding and
enjoy with a child’s enjoyment, thus their 
companionship is complete, exemplifying the
thought, “and a little child shall lead them.”
Together they watch for the manifestations
of God.
	“In the sun, the moon, the sky,
	In the mountains wide and high,
	In the thunder, in the rain,
	In the winds, the woods, the plain,
	In the little birds that sing,
	God is seen in everything.”
	A study of current events broadens us by
showing a view of the world and its pro-
gress, a knowledge of its important events
and that the turmoil that at present exists
is in fulfilment of prophecies by our own
Prophet Joseph Smith. This is all an added
testimony to us of the divinity of his mis-
sion.
	Biographies of the noble women of our
Church and of the world are an inspiration
to us. “Sewing Topics” gives us valuable
thoughts for discussion in our sewing meet-
ings, thus eliminating gossip and light-
mindedness. The Theological gives us a
more definite understanding of the princi-
ples of the Gospel, making us broader mind-
ed and better, able to defend the faith than
ever before. By coming in contact with
other faiths we intensify our own by com-
parison. The Genealogical work is of tre-
mendous import. To us above all people
on the earth, it is important. It is necessary
for us to keep in touch with the great world
movement in this line of work. It has three
distinct phases, the social, the scientific and
the spiritual. Many people spend much time
and money tracing their pedigree to estab-
lish their relationship to noted personages
or nobility, etc., to gratify pride or to be-
come eligible to societies such as the “Sons
and Daughters of the Revolution,” “Daugh-
ters of the Pioneers,” etc. This is the social
side. The scientific phase brings into gene-
alogy the science of eugenics or heredity,
which when studied and applied will tend
to improve the race physically and mentally

[Column 2]
by teaching the value of proper mating. An
article by Stoddard Goodhue, in the July
“Cosmopolitan magazine” teaches that every
man and woman should know the ancestry
of the contemplated marriage partner, and
knowing it, have the courage, if there is
any taint, to put aside present happiness for
the good of the race. The editor’s note on
this article says—“Have I the right to get
married? if already married, have I the
right to have children? If I have children
will they be healthy in mind and body or will
they be feeble-minded or consumptive, or
epileptic, or so sickly and defective that they
will be a burden to themselves and to their
parents?” The time is coming when every
intelligent man and woman must ask him-
self or herself such questions as those—di-
rect personal, practical questions. The new
knowledge of heredity makes it imperative
to do so. The long controversy about the
relative influence of heredity and environ-
ment has been settled for all time. We
know now that the possibilities of any in-
dividual are determined before birth; if you
are to select a marriage partner wisely and
gie your prospective children half a chance
in life, you must be familiar with at least
the essentials of this new knowledge. Last
and best is the spiritual phase, which in-
volves the keeping of genealogy for further-
ing the work of salvation of the living and
the dead, and the binding together of fami-
lies for time and all eternity. I might have
added another phase, the technical—or the
art of collecting and recording data. This
part of the work was given in our gene-
alogical class, taught by Sister Annie Lynch
of the Woman’s Committee of the genealog-
cal association and as a result of the prec-
ous seed sown by her we have aimed to
put theory into practice. Knowing that the
records in the majority of the homes of the
Saints are in a deplorable condition, no
thought being given to the recording of
passing events, we have prepared a form,
containing the direct ancestry of husband
and wife back to the second great grand par-
ents, the children of the couple, and whom
they married, and the work the sister is now
performing in the Church as also a place
for all she has heretofore done. Practice
may never strictly conform to theory but
we believe that great good will result from
the work thus begun.
	One cannot fill out our form without feel-
ing the force of our two mottos, “Record
data today, tomorrow it may be beyond your
reach,” and, “We who forget the past have
no claim to be remembered by the future.”
There never will come a time when the
chances are better than today for the pre-
serving of necessary data. Every day the
aged are passing away and with them valu-
able information which we may sorely need
but be unable to secure, and therefore we
are working to secure actual, authentic data
and have it properly recorded and placed on
file in our societies for future use. The
great amount of work that thisrequires
makes us feel that, “The man is greatest
who best serves his kind.”
	Sympathy and knowledge are for use—
you acquire that you may give out you ac-
cumulate that you may bestow. And as
God has given you the sublime blessings of
sympathy, and wisdom, there will come to
you the wish to reveal your gratitude by
giving them out again; for the wise man is
aware that we receive only as we give. Let

[Column 3]
your light shine; “To him that hath shall be
given.”
	We get inspiration only as we fit ourselves
to receive it. Let us get that we may give,
knowing that our work leads us to wisdom,
sympathy, education and the glory of God.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


IDOLS.
When men made idols, carving the blank eyes,
The speechless lips, the nerveless, helpless
	hands,
The solid heads of undisputed wood—
Moulding of brass or bronze the hollow dolls—
They none the less bowed down and worshiped
	them;
Worshiped the vacant images they made;
All men were bidden to respect the gods.
Now men make laws; make, unmake and amend;
The road behind them strewn with laws out-
	grown,
The space around them thick with laws re-
	pealed;
Men at their pleasure make what laws they
	choose.
And of this mass, some laws are unenforced
Some fallen into scornful disrepute,
And all to be evaded if one hires
A costly champion learned in the game.
Yet we are told to have respect for law!
				—Charlotte Perkins Gilman


RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		BOX ELDER STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of Box
Elder stake convened June 18, 1913, Presi-
dent Sarah P. Stohl, presiding.
	Present besides Relief Society stake offi-
cers. Presidents Oleen N. Stohl and W. G.
Horsley, and General President of the Re-
lief Society Emmeline B. Wells.
	Singing “For the strength of the hills,”
etc.
	Opening prayer by Sister Emelia D. Mad-
sen.
	Singing by Relief Society choir, “There
is sunshine in my soul.”
	Roll was called, showing 314 present.
	Minutes of previous forenoon conference
read and approved.
	President Sarah P. Stohl was pleased to
see so many sisters present this morning;
felt to welcome all, and felt we would have
a profitable time together today; was
pleased to welcome our worthy President,
Sister Wells, who had come all alone to
visit us. Said the 18th had been set apart as
a holiday, but on account of entertaining
the old folks we decided to hold our confer-
ence today. Prayed the blessings of the
Lord upon all.
	Sisters Sarah Fredahl and Sophia Jensen
each gave reports of the associations at Bear
River City and Mantua.
	“Kind words are sweet tones of-the
heart” was sung by the choir, with Sister
Hortense Nelsen singing the solo.
	Sister Sophy Valentine gave a talk on
the “Evolution of Woman,” giving the posi-
tion of woman in the home and society from
the early periods down.
	President Emmeline B. Wells said she
was very pleased and gratified in seeing
so many here was interested in all she had
heard, particularly in the talk on the “Evo-
lution of Woman;” thought it was a very
nteresting subject said the Relief Society
work was increasing very materially. She
was proud of Box Elder stake; spoke of
President Lorenzo Snow and his sister
Eliza R. Snow, and the work done in this


[Column 1]
stake; spoke on the outlines and the high
work they hoped to accomplish; said they
“desired to have weekly meetings held gen-
erally; spoke on and explained a summary
report they would expect at the October
conference on the work we were doing in
the stake; advised the sisters in looking after
their children and on promoting faith in
them; said We are a favored people. May
the Lord bless you all.
	President Sarah Stohl hoped all would
stay and participate in the social noon hour;
felt we had been inspired in our work in
holding our weekly meetings and in our
getting out report blanks; felt the Lord
would bless us with His spirit today; that
we would have a good social time together.
	Singing, “Sowing, daily sowing.”
	Prayer by Brother Oluf Jensen.
	2 p. m.—After opening exercises min-
utes of previous afternoon conference read
and approved.
	President Sarah Stohl was pleased with
the good attendance this afternoon; said we
would hear from some of the sisters, and
have a report for one month read.
	Sister Rose M. Wheatly gave a report of
Honeyville association.
	Sister Julia A. Richards read a report of
the work done in the stake for one month.
Kindergarten work was taken up. In-
troductory remarks were made by Sister
Lula B. Call, stake chairman of kindergar-
ten work; was thankful for this work as it
opened up an avenue for our minds and
thoughts to work upon; spoke on the lec-
tures and games, and the way the lessons
were to be handled in the associations.
	Sister Emeline P. Watkins combined the
two lessons, The Child as an Imitator, and
Social Development, and also gave briefly
a sketch of the Montessori Mother, and the
work in her school.
	Supplementary Kindergarten work by
Sister Emma Vance; treated in general the
work of the outlines as given in our weekly
meetings.
	Sister Emmeline B. Wells said one would
seem certainly uplifted in what we had
heard this afternoon; spoke in regard to
nurses and their high price; said they were
going to have Relief Society nurse classes
again; spoke on genealogy work, and organ-
zing of classes; also on obedience; related
ncidents of her own conversion to the
Church, and her acquaintance with the
Prophet, and her feelings when in his pres-
ence; gave many of the qualifications he
possessed; bore a strong testimony to the
truth of this Gospel.
	Brother W. C. Horsley said we must
work more unitedly together to make a bet-
ter community; spoke on company that
some of our young girls keep; read a short
piece on unity.
	President Oleen N. Stohl said there has
been a sweet influence here all day; had been
nterested in the singing; said we were born
spirits of our heavenly parents and we had
to go through experiences to become per-
fect; spoke on the power of the evil one, and
how he works to try to overpower; said the
struggle was on, and it was with us to try
to do our part and it was worthy of our best
efforts to press on. May the Lord bless us
all in this great work.
	President Sarah Stohl said she would like
to tell the sisters that Sister Wells’ age was
85 years, and her dress was home made silk;

[Column 2]
was well pleased with the social hour, and
hoped to have more attend our meetings;
said a few words on the free will offering
to help defray the General Board expenses;
made other closing remarks.
	Sister Wells wished to express her feel-
ing s for her kind reception, and the beau-
tiful things she had heard, and for every-
thing said and done. During the confer-
ence beautiful music was rendered.
	Conference adjourned for six months.
	Singing, “Oh, awake my slumbering min-
strel.”
	Benediction by Emmeline B. Wells.
				SARAH E. STOHL, Pres.
	ANNIE H. LITTLEWOOD, Stake Sec.

			ONEIDA STAKE.
	Minutes of Oneida stake Relief Society
conference held in the First Ward assem-
bly hall, June 28, 1913, President L. B.
Benson presiding.
	There were present: President Emme-
line B. Wells of the General Board, Lydia
D. Alder of Salt Lake, Stake Counselor
Taylor Nelson, and 13 members of the Re-
lief Society board. After opening exercises
the statistical and financial report was read.
	President Benson reported the Relief So-
ciety organization of the stake in good or-
der, the aged and poor being well cared for,
the lessons especially being appreciated.
	Sylvia L. Jensen reported the mothers’
work and showed the benefit of this study.
	A review of the Book of Mormon as
taken up by the Relief Society was given by
Lydia N. Benson.
	Lesson 6 from- Book of Mormon study
was given by Amy C. Ballif.
	The following local societies, reported:
Weston, Mink Creek, Preston 4th and 3rd
wards.
	President Emmeline B. Wells addressed
the conference; said she was delighted to see
the improvement that is manifest. Encour-
aged presidents to work for a better average
attendance. As our work is more systematic
we should hope for greater results arid be-
come more intellectual, not forgetting the
spiritual part. She also urged that the
genealogical work be taken up in this stake.
For general information it was asked that
a record be made of all things accomplished
in the Relief Societies, such as making of
quilts, building houses, Sunday eggs gath-
ered, etc. All contributions for any great
cause should be sent to the General Sec-
retary.
	President Benson explained the transac-
tion of sending the wheat to the Richfield
elevator.
	Afternoon Session—Singing, “Our God
we raise to Thee.”
	Prayer by Bishop Stone of Mapleton.
	Singing, “School thy feelings.”
	Roll was called, 19 societies represented.
	Local societies represented and reported
as follows: Oxford, Treasureton, Glencoe.
	Lydia D. Alder bore testimony to the
Gospel and spoke on the “Holy Land.”
	President Wells again addressed the con-
ference; spoke on the interest our people
have in Joseph Smith, and of his wonderful
work, related how she first saw him when
a girl and of the wonderful thrill that she

[Column 3]
felt, of the divinity of his work, and of her
baptism on March 1, 1842. Told of a
miraculous healing of a lame-girl on this
same day. Bore a strong testimony of the
power of the Prophet, said she heard all
of his last addresses and described very
minutely what is known as the “Transfig-
uration.” Told of her acquaintance with
Mother Whitney, who had the gift of speak-
ing and singing in tongues, which the
Prophet said was the language. spoken in
the garden of Eden. Invoked the blessing
of God on all.
	Solomon H. Hale told of his having seen
the Prophet, of his love for and blessing his
mother. Spoke of Emma Hale as an intel-
ligent, beautiful woman, an “elect lady,”
the first president of the Relief Society.
	President Benson said Sisters Head and
Packer, living now in Preston, had both
seen the Prophet and the “Transfiguration.”
	President Taylor Nelson said his father
was baptized by the Prophet in July, 1842,
is still living.
	President Taylor Nelson prayed that all
would remember the testimonies that they
heard of the divinity of the Prophet and his
wonderful work.
	Geo. C. Parkinson appreciated the priv-
lege of being present to hear the testimonies
of the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph
Smith.
	Singing, “For the strength of the hills we
bless Thee.”
	During the services beautiful music was
rendered by the Misses Merrill, Kershaw,
Nelson, Packer, Paul Benson, and a recita
tion by Linda Benson.
	Benediction, Emmeline B. Wells.
			PHEBE A. M. MCNIEL, Sec.

		NORTH SANPETE STAKE.
	Relief Society conference of North San-
pete stake held in Mt. Pleasant, June 29,
1913, President Williamina Ericksen pre-
siding.
	Roll was called, showing 75 visiting offi-
cers and members present. Minutes of
previous conference were read and accepted.
	President Ericksen welcomed the sisters
and was indeed pleased to see so many
present; was also pleased we had a sister
from the General Board to visit us.
	The General Board and local officers were
sustained.
	Sister Larsen from Spring City and Sister
Guymon from Fountain Green each report-
ed their wards as doing the best they could
and preparing for the calls made of them in
various ways.
	Sister Sarah Fowles reported the Fair-
view ward as also doing a good work. In
the last four years had gathered Sunday
eggs amounting to $2,000. Had assisted the
bishop in the building of the meeting house,
with donations and Sunday eggs, $3,000.
	Sister McLellan from the General Board
was indeed pleased to be present, and
thought it a great pleasure to the president
to see such a large attendance from the
adjoining wards. She had learned to love
the Relief Society work since she had been
called to work with the sisters. We learn
to do by doing. President Smith advised
the people to teach our children in regard


[Column 1]
to styles and fashions. Each organization
should sustain every other organization. The
Lord overrules all and He makes no mistake
in choosing our leaders. Brought greetings
from President Wells. At her advanced
age is still active; was visiting four confer-
ences. Said it was the largest forenoon ses-
sion she had met; felt Sister Wells would
be delighted to be here this morning. Spoke
of temple work and the laying away of the
dead; gave some instructions as given by
Joseph E. Taylor, in laying away the dead.
The Relief Society sisters should know how
to do these things correctly, they should be
authority on this subject. The position of
the Mormons in an educational way stands
third in the Union, even if we are misrep-
resented in the world. Advised all to look
after their genealogy, keeping proper re-
cords and having work done. The General
Board had opened a house for the accom-
modation of visitors and girls coming from
the country.
	Sister Maud Accord from Spring City
gave a talk on “Self Improvement.”
	Closing remarks by President Ericksen.
	Relief Society conference reconvened at
2 p. m., President Ericksen presiding.
After opening exercises President Ericksen
made a few remarks.
	Sister Mary J. Blackman, of Moroni, gave
a talk on “Charity.”
	Sister McLellan was indeed pleased to
meet such a large audience of both men and
women; spoke of her labors in the mission
field; explained the mission work and bless-
ings received through our efforts put forth
in doing good; spoke of her visit to Nauvoo
and Carthage jail; gave some very
good advice to the teachers and encouraged
them in their noble and grand work.
	President C. N. Lund felt pleased and
much interested in the meetings of the day,
and the good attendance from the wards;
was thankful for the timely and good ad-
vice given, and it was important that all
sisters be present to receive such instruc-
tions; felt this was the best conference held
in the stake; was grateful for the Relief
Society organization.
	Sister Estella Miner from Fairview gave
a very excellent reading, “The Artist’s
Picture.”
	Closing remarks by President Ericksen.
The stake officers had made an effort to
visit all the wards in the stake before con-
ference.
	Beautiful music was rendered by the choir
and the Misses Lewis and Price.
		FRANCES E. CHRISTENSEN,
						Stake Secretary.
			OGDEN STAKE.
	The annual conference of the Relief So-
ciety of the Ogden stake was held in the
Relief Society hall, at Ogden, Utah, on
saturday, July 19, 1913, at 10:30 a. m. and
2 p. m. with a prayer meeting at 10 a. m.,
preceding the morning session.
	Owing to the illness of Stake President
Sarah M. Taylor, she was unable to meet
with us and 1st Counselor Isabel Foulger
presided and conducted both sessions of
the conference.
	Present on the stand were Sisters Julia
P. M. Farnsworth and Alice M. Horne of
the General Board of the R. S., Elder
Elijah A. Larkin of the High Council, Sis-

[Column 2]
ter M. Maddock of the Y. L. M. I. A. stake
Board, eleven members of the R. S. stake
Board, and president or representative from
each of the local associations.
	After the opening exercises Second Coun-
selor L. Letitia Richards welcomed all pres-
ent.
	Reports from the local associations fol-
lowed, a special feature of which was with
reference to attendance of officers and work-
ers at sacrament meetings, preparation meet-
ings and prayer meetings and the effects of
the same on the Relief Society. The results as
reported were that the sacrament meetings
are being better attended by our officers than
formerly, which means a larger spiritual
growth; the preparation meeting is aiding
them in better preparation of lessons and
conducting of meetings and general detail,
while the prayer meeting, preceding the gen-
eral meeting, fits and qualifies each attend-
ant for the work in hand. The sick and
poor were being cared for and the work in
general progressing.
	A most excellent paper on “The Value of
Our Class Work,” was given by Sister
Vincy R. Barker, after which Secretary Nel-
lie Becraft briefly reported the work done
by the R. S. stake Board during the past
three months; weekly visits are made to
the local associations and help given them in
every way possible, besides a large num-
ber of visits to the sick are made.
	Sister Farnsworth of the General Board,
was delighted with the spirit of the confer-
ence, the singing, the reports and every-
thing done and felt that benefit would result
from the same.
	Sister Horne of the General Board felt it
to be a privilege to be present; had looked
over our “outlines” and was convinced more
deeply than before, of the practicability of
each stake planning its own work.
	After singing, the benediction was pro-
nounced by Counselor Larkin of the High
Council, and during the noon period a
luncheon was served and a social time was
spent.
	The afternoon session was a Memorial
Service in memory of Weber stake first Re-
lief Society President, Sister Jane S. Rich-
arde.
	In addition to those on the stand at the
morning session there were present Charles
C. Richards of the stake Presidency
and Elder William S. Wright of the 
stake Presidency of the Y. M. M. I. A., who
with Sister Maddock of the Y. L. M. I. A. 
added to the enjoyment of the conference by
their sweet singing.
	After the opening exercises a Life Sketch
of Sister Richards was given by Sister Nel-
lie Becraft.
	Sister Farnsworth of the General Board
paid a beautiful tribute to the memory of
Sister Richards, whom she had known and
loved and always looked upon as one of the
foremost women in the church; thought
this day should continue to be fittingly ob-

[Column 3]
served as it meant so much to the sisters and
to the community where Sister Richards had
accomplished so great a work.
	Sister Horne of the General Board con-
sidered it a great privilege to have known
Apostle and Sister Richards; they were
both the embodiment of all that was good
and noble. Sister Richards was a woman
of great wisdom and of the broadest char-
ity; it has been well said that she was a 
statesman and her executive ability of a very
high order; her home life was most beauti-
ful and she was certainly worthy of being
the first Relief Society stake President.
	President Richards has heard so many
good things said of his parents that his
heart was deeply touched; he was glad of
the work they had done, the record they
had made and the treasures they had laid
up where neither moth nor rust could cor-
rupt nor thieves break through and steal.
	Counselor Foulger said our minds have
been carried back to the days of our child-
hood, when Sister Richards gathered in all
the young girls, teaching us valuable les-
sons in her motherly way, until we were fin-
ally organized into the Y. L. M. I. A. Hers
was a beautiful life service,  nothing was
ever allowed to interfere with duty.
	We feel that our conference was a most
enjoyable one and one to be remembered
and cherished.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	The Pacific Coast Woman’s Press. Asso-
ciation open their meetings this year with a
splendid program, beginning Sept. 8. Much
attention in their papers and discussions is
given to the Panama Canal—that being for
the present the most absorbing topic for
the western press. Monday, Sept. 22, is
Members Day, when no guests will be per-
mitted, no papers read and all talks limited
to two minutes. There will be besides the
business of the association, discussions on
the following subjects: “Within the Law,”
“My Little Sister,” “The New Chivalry;”
and it is safe to predict a very lively time
among the women editors during these dis-
cussions.


THIRTY-FOURTH
	ANNUAL ANNOUNCEMENT
				OF
		Dr. Ellis R. Shipp’s
	SCHOOL OF NURSING
		AND OBSTETRICS
	Beginning October 6, 1913.
		Hours 9 to 12 a.m.
For full particulars communicate with
		ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D.
713 Second Avenue, Salt Lake City, Utah

R K. THOMAS CO.,		67-69 MAIN STREET,
						SALT LAKE CITY.
	The most becoming Styles in Ladies’
	Suits, Coats, Dresses, Skirts, and
	Waists at Popular Prices. ....
THE STORE WHERE YOU CAN FEEL AT HOME


<Marilla M Daniels>
					WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
		The Organ of the Latter-day Saints’ Woman’s Relief Society.
