Vol. 41.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY, 1914		No. 13.


CONTENTS.
To the Relief Society..............................	89
The Nobel Prize Winner.........................	89
A Sketch.................................................	90
Rebecca E. Standring.............................	91
Madame Bernhardt Honored..................	95
Mary E. Leightner...................................	95
Relief Society Reports: Box Elder Stake	95
Madame Davenport, Age 90, Addresses
	Ladies’ Club....................................	96
Editorial:
	President Smith’s Visit to Arizona..	92
	Eliza R. Snow.................................	92
	Sarah E. Russell..............................	92
	Humanity vs. Millinery...................	92
	In Sickness......................................	94
Notes About Women...............................	94
Notes and News......................................	96
Obituary..................................................	96
Poetry:
	Life is Worth the Living.................
	.................Sarah E. Russell (Hope)	89
	Bingen on the Rhine...Lydia D. Alder	95


LIFE IS WORTH THE LIVING.
Oh life is worth  the living, from the cradle to
	the grave,
With all its light and shadow, if the spirit
	is but brave;
For the mystic web it weaveth, touched by
	memory’s magic spell,
Are pictures in soul chambers where the spirit
	loves to dwell.
Oh life is worth the living, for the sunshine
	and the dew,
The diamond dew that sparkles, like a sweet
	thought pure and true,
For the little warbling songbirds—the tree
	tops soaring high,
For the music of the breezes so softly pass-
	ing by.
Oh life is worth the living, for the little
	baby’s smile,
It’s loving touch and prattle, the lingering
	hours beguile;
For the glow and warmth of youth time, life’s
	mystic fairy-land
For the pearls and gems that sparkle along its
	golden strand.
Oh life is worth the life, for fond parental
	love,
Type  of that higher parenthood, in our dear
	home above,
For the silver threads of friendship twining a
	cable strong
For the touch of sweet humanity, in life’s un-
	numbered throng.
Oh life is worth the living, to know God live[-]
	on high,
That the spirit is immortal, and can never
	never die,
To know that His great kingdom, is buil[-]
	upon the Rock,
To stand against the wildest, the tempests’
	fiercest shock.
Oh life is worth the living, for the wrecks
	along the shore.
Where the wild waves dash upon them, and
	the ships return no more;
For they are safely anchored, in the Heaven
	of the blest,
Where the wicked cease from troubling, and
	the weary are at rest.”
			Sarah E. Russell (Hope).


Take joy home, and make a place in thy
great heart for her, and give her time to 
grow, and cherish her. Then will she come, 
and oft will sing to thee when thou art work-
ing in the furrows; aye, or weeding in the
sacred hour of dawn. 
	It is a comely fashion to be glad; joy is
the grace we say to God.—Jean Ingelow.


TO THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
Beloved Sisters:
	As we are now just entering the New
Year, 1914, it seems an appropriate time,
as it certainly is a pleasant duty, to wish
you a happy and prosperous year, coupled
with the hope that you, with us, will try to
make it the very best year that has ever
yet transpired for the Relief Society, as
well as for ourselves, our families and our
kindred.
	We are keenly sensible of and grateful
for your faithfulness and diligence in the
years that are past. But we also know that
we learn by doing; and we believe that
your past experiences have given you such
knowledge of the work that you are now
better qualified than ever before to attain
to excellence in all that pertains to our
great calling. These experiences qualify
you for improvement, in the greater under-
takings that now loom up before the society.
These are of such value and magnitude
that we cannot afford to let them pass.
Rich opportunities are offered for us to put
forth our best efforts; we are encouraged
to strive for the advancement of all that is
noblest and best, and should exert the
utmost diligence in the wide field of spir-
itual culture, thus making sure of the satis-
faction that comes from ministering to those
in need of kindly deeds and the sweet char-
ity that never faileth. The Savior is our
Pattern and Guide; and if we follow His
example and teaching we cannot fail to
meet with His favor and approbation.
	The education our sisters recieve in the
Relief Society is valuable beyond price. It
embraces many things not taught in col-
leges. We know whereof we speak when
we assert that the Relief Society, even back
in the past long before we had the many ad-
vantages we have at present, was a source
of higher education and benefit to those
who were faithful in its service and in the
duties and obligations connected with it,
than any or all other agencies within their
reach. The Relief Society has given to its
members a lofty sense of honor and a true
conception of the duties pertaining to the
activites of life and its value—all in such
sweet simplicity that every one could com-
prehend, through the spirit of our religion,
pure and undefiled. And we maintain that
no school of philosophy could have taught
so successfully as has our society, the science
of true charity and good fellowship to
women of different nations and different
temperaments, or could have created the
love and union that have existed in the so-
ciety throughout the Church of which our
sisters in this organization are for the most
part faithful members.
	We trust our sisters will not think we in-
dulge in a spirit of boasting. We have no
such thought. But having been acquainted
with the movement for many years, and
having personally known and labored with
all the former leaders who championed
Relief Society work from its very begin-
ing, we feel impressed by the dignity of

[Column 2]
this, the first woman’s organization in the
Church, and would like to awaken those
who are indifferent to its significance as a
school of spiritual and moral advancement.
As the years roll on, still greater achieve-
ments will be reached by those who shall
be identified as members with this society.
We feel perfectly sure that this will come
to pass. The assurance of its solidarity is
the harmony that has existed and does ex-
ist between its members in whatsoever land
they may be, or whence they may have come.
The material growth and enterprise mani-
fested during the past year seem in our esti-
mation to have surpassed the showing of any
year in our history. But we must not be
content with the progress made, we must
strive for more. We must each of us seek
for an increase of faith in our Heavenly
Father, and in the Gospel that has been re-
stored in this day and age. We must be
careful of our example in all that pertains
to our conduct and to our conversation and
lives. We must not only look to the ma-
terial well-being of our own households, but
must see to it that in the manners and cus-
toms of our homes and families we may be
examples worthy of imitation. There is
much to look forward to in the coming year.
Let us never lose sight of the high calling
to which we have been chosen, and set apart.
Let us seek to excell in all the virtues that
pertain to our work in charity, benevolence,
purity and uprightness, in our own lives, in
order that we may worthily seek out the
needy and unfortunate and stand firm
as the “Rock of Ages” for the truths
we have embraced--setting an example in
all things great and small, of which we
never need be ashamed.
	And now, beloved sisters, in closing, accept
this expression of our love and commenda-
tion for the great and good work you have
accomplished, not only in the past year, but
in all the years you have labored. Rest as-
sured that you will in no wise lose your re-
ward. May our Father in Heaven bless you
and yours, and prosper your endeavors in
whatever you undertake in the interest of
the society, and the enlightenment and bene-
fit of those with whom you labor.
“Cast your bread upon the waters, and
it will return after many days.”
				Faithfully yours,
		EMMELINE B. WELLS,
		CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS,
		JULINA L. SMITH.


THE NOBEL PRIZE WINNER.
	The Nobel Prize for literature for 1913
was awarded to Rabindra Nath Tagore, a
Bengali poet. The man thus honored is of
a notable Bengal family, famous both for
wealth and intellectual attainments.
	Born in 1860, Tagore’s first few years of
childhood were spent at Calcutta and in the
vastnesses of the Himalayas. At seventeen
he was sent to England, where he thorough-
ly acquainted himself with the English lan-


[Column 1]
guage and English literature. After return-
ing to the Orient he wrote a great deal for
magazines, but though this work held a
strong fascination for him, his remarkable
versatility early marked him as a poet, and
also showed his powers as an educator and a
philosopher as well as a journalist.
	Tagore’s early poetry shows marked ro-
manticism, probably caused by the influence
of the English romanticists, Byron and
Shelley. This sensualism became so great
in some cases that several of his early works
were discountenanced by the more conserv-
ative Bengali. We are told, and this is
probably one of the causes for his extreme
romanticism, that he returned from Europe
distinctly Epicurean; that he lived, for a
time, sumptuously, in the proverbial Ori-
ental magnificence, until the awakening of
his riper, greater powers revoked the sen-
sualist and called forth the higher spirit-
ualist.
	Tagore’s poetry, unlike the works of other
Oriental philosophers in his conception of
the Deity and Eternal love, is still more un-
like the works of any European or Amer-
ican poet. The lyric beauty and utter in-
dividuality of some of his lines reminds one
somewhat of our own Walt Whitman. But 
such high-mindedness, such grace and 
majesty, we find more suggestive of the
works of Dante and Milton. It may be re-
marked here, that judging from the sketches 
and paintings of Tagore, his face bears no
little resemblance to that of the great Italian
master, Dante.
	He is a born poet; a study of his lines re-
veals deep, meditative serenity. His words
are delicate and expressive with a charming
abundance of suggestiveness. His deep pa-
triotism is shown in these lines:
	“To thee, my motherland, I dedicate my
body, for thee I consecrate my life, for thee
my eyes will weep, and in thy praise my
music will sing.
	“Though my arms are helpless and power-
less, still they will do the deeds that can
only serve thy cause; and though my 
sword is rusty with disgrace, still it shall
sever thy chains of bondage sweet mother
of mine.”
	The MacMillan company has recently
published the works of Rabindra Nath Ta-
gore. These include “Gitanjali” (Song
Offerings), a collection of prose translations
made by the author from the original Ben-
gali; “The Gardener” (Poems of Youth) ;
“The Crescent Moon” (Child Poems); and
“Sadhana: The Realization of Life,” a vol-
ume of essays.
	In the following selections from the
Gitanjali we note a Psalm-like dignity, a
rich majesty suggestive of that other Ori-
ental poet, Omar Khayyam, a hint that
these works may be the key that shall un-
lock untold treasures of unwritten Oriental 
literature:

“ *	*	* The onrolling flood of the love
	eternal
Hath at last found its perfect final course.
All the joys and sorrows and longings of the
	heart, 
All the memories of the moments of ecstasy,
All the love lyrics of poets of all climes and
	times
Have come from thee everywhere
And gathered in one single love at thy feet.”
	“Where the mind is without fear and the
head is held high; 
	“Where knowledge is free;

[Column 2]
	“Where the world has not been broken up
into fragments by narrow domestic walls; 
	“Where words come out from the depth of
truth; 
	“Where tireless striving stretches its arms
toward perfection; 
	“Where the clear stream of reason has not 
lost its way into the dreary desert sand of dead
habit; 
	“Where the mind is led forward by thee into
everwidening thought and action—
	“Into that heaven of freedom, my Father, let
my country awake”
							—C. W. C.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			A SKETCH.
	[The following article was read by the
author before the Utah Woman’s Press
Club, Jan. 7, and by unanimous resolution
of the members present, its publication was
requested in this issue of the EXPONENT.]

	The maples on the mountain sides are
turning golden, the great Artist of the sea-
sons is arraying in a carnival of colors the
landscapes for their autumn holidays, be-
fore they shall be clothed in their winter
robes of snow.
	And this calls to mind the maples of far
away on the rugged, ocean-voiced coast of
the Atlantic, where lie the New England
States, where Prophet and Patriarch, also
many of the first born of the Gospel of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, were born and
baptized into His Church.
	There, on February 29th, 1828, at Peters-
ham, Worcester County, Massachusetts,
was born Emmeline B. Wells, the subject
of this sketch, amid the grandeur of ocean
and mountain scenes, amid the environ-
ments of patriotism, religious influences,
cultured associations, hereditary endow-
ments and highest ideals of home and wom-
anhood.
	With her spiritual eyes fixed upon the ex-
emplers of her progenitors, and the awak-
ening of new ideals possible in the near fu-
ture, grew to maidenhood this gleaner of
sheaves of knowledge, which should become
her principal and bear interest of intellec-
tual riches and influence in the years to
come; also a queenly place and power in the
kingdom yet to be; that kingdom yet a
dream of the future to all earth’s wisest
scholars and worshippers; a hope and dream,
to all the world, save to the youthful
Prophet—Joseph Smith.
	It was in July, 1859, that I first met Sister
Emmeline B. Wells, at the old Wells House
where the Templeton now stands. At that
time I had no idea that the introduction
meant a future acquaintance and associa-
tion; it seemed merely a social formality,
for in the days when I was a young lady,
such as I, were supposed to profit by listen-
ing to the conversations of their elders.
However, having been acquainted with a
mutual friend, Mrs. Ellen McGary, first in
San Bernardino, California, and later in
Beaver, Utah, who had often spoken of her
old friend Emmeline, her personality, and
abilities, I felt somewhat acquainted, even
at the respectful distance I occupied. So
several years passed by and although I be-
came better acquainted with some of the
daughters of General D. H. Wells, and
their mothers, it was not until Sister Emme-
line B. Wells was called to occupy the edi-
torial chair of the WOMAN’S EXPONENT
that I was drawn nearer to her through my .
labors as secretary of the Y. L. M. I. A.,

[Column 2]
Relief Society, and the semi-monthly meet-
ings in the Fourteenth Ward, and an occa-
sional contribution to the WOMAN’S EXPO-
NENT. 
	From the beginning of our acquaintance
(after it became such) I have felt a partic-
ular special attraction in her personality, her
face and figure (I’ve never seen a photo-
graph or a painted portrait that did her jus-
tice), her type of mind, practical versatility,
her fund of information and her history
with the Church; but—all of these not ex-
pressing certain qualities which make the
woman, I mean as she is to me personally,
I can sum it up best thus: It’s the New
England of it. You may study and under-
stand it, if you are New England born (as
I was: in Boston).
	No matter where you were born, dear
reader, you know that the spirit of your
native land still claims its kinship with you
wherever else you may hereafter dwell, or
what cause you may espouse; and though
the Gospel makes of us all strangers hereto-
fore, one family of one Father.
	When I heard of the accession of Emme-
line B. Wells to the presidency of the Relief
Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, throughout the world, I
said: That is as it should be. There is no
one else so well qualified to fill that posi-
tion. Sister Wells has been with the Relief
Society as member and later as secretary
(you might say historian) through its up-
ward growth till she knows every branch of
its genealogical tree, and all the fruits it
has borne; she could give you the figures.
	Was she not beside “Aunt Eliza,” “Aunt
Zina,” and “Sister Bathsheba,” ever ready
with her invaluable aid? Did they not know
her thoroughly, her reliability and accuracy
in every detail? Her promptness to serve
and rejoice in serving? And did they not
love her? Did she not share the exodus
with them and bury her dead as they did,
outside their beloved Nauvoo, and traverse
with them that memorable march from civ-
ilization to the shores of the Dead Sea of
America? Fitting it is, that Emmeline B.
Wells should unveil the Sea Gull Monu-
ment, for she was here when they, the
heaven-sent birds, halted the impending
famine.
	Has she not, through the WOMAN’S EX-
PONENT, given voice to her sisters and kept
record of their progress?
	Though her ideal in journalism would
have been a magazine of high character, she
has faithfully labored with the lesser publi-
cation because it was needed, and the “sis-
ters’” resources were limited to this at the
present.
	Some of America’s great men have been
compared to the “mighty oak,” “the tower-
ing pine,” etc.
	Because Emmeline B. Wells was New
England born, and because she was born in
Massachusetts, where, in the days of her
girlhood, the sugar maple was perhaps of
more importance than any other tree (to
the mothers), in my own heart I select the
sugar maple as her emblem. Is it not ap-
propriate?
	Did it not give the sweetening that was
needed to the Puritan housewives? And it
was not passed under government inspec-
tion to prove its purity; and who cared then
what other countries made sugar, or if they
made it cheaper and wanted to send it here


on the “free list” and upset all our home
sugar factories?
	No, each neighbor owned his own sugar
plant on his own farm, and had his “sugar
making” time undisturbed and unlimited in
supply, and what an occasion sugar making
was, and what other sugar or syrup can
taste better? It needed no protecting “trade
mark,” the color and the odor verified its
individuality among the sweets.
	What other tree has such autumn leaves,
that everyone wants to gather and press,
and keep, or to decorate the home with, as
the sugar maple? Of course, other states,
north and south, have the sugar maple, but
it is of the trees of her state and herself that
I am writing.
	Sweetness from its heart in the early
spring time (She was born just before those
camp fires in the woods were lighted, and
men and maidens bore the wooden buckets
of maple sap to the huge kettles that were
kept boiling day and night.)
	Wealth of color and beauty in its falling
leaves in autumn, its latest gift to rich and
poor alike, it is like her. Has she not given
the sweetness of her best years and now, in
the autumn of her life, are not her leaflets
of thought bright and treasured?
	O you artists of gloomy canyons, torrid
deserts, ocean sunsets and moonlights, and
every other kind of picture—who has ever,
who is going to immortalize himself by a
picture of a ‘sugar camp” among the maple
trees and the nut trees, while the snow may
still be seen in the untrampled background?
It is one of America’s chief assets, and dear
to so many hearts. There are the mighty,
protecting forest branches overhead, the fire
lights and the faces, the industry itself with-
out the beauty? destroying smoke stacks and
noise of the machinery, in the primeval for-
est.
	It is grand to have been born there, and
of those ancestors. Blended in her fragile
women is the heritage of those men and
women who counted no sacrifice as too
great for religious and political freedom;
who had braved the rigors of climate, the
Indians and the perils of the Atlantic coast,
for the lives of those who went down to
the sea in ships has been closely interwoven
through the character of all who dwelt in
the New England States.
	Why, then, should she not be the woman
that she is, with the Gospel to lead her? 
	Who among us, though, is better pre-
pared like her, to meet the representative
women of the world, no matter what their
great work or station?
	Emmeline B. Wells, as ambassadress of
the women of Zion, would be bearer of
credentials, the highest that could be be-
stowed, because she is in the service, not of
any earthly potentate, but in the service of
the Church and kingdom of our Father and
His Son Jesus Christ. 
	May her example be a stimulus to the
daughters of Zion to attain unto the call of
the future to each and every one of us in
our place and calling; and may her pres-
ence be among us still for many years to
come.
	With love and respect,
		Your Sister in the Gospel,
		AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
	Erda, Oct. 4th, 1913.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
REBECCA E. STANDRING.
	On Friday, the 19th of December, oc-
curred the death of Sister Rebecca E.
Standring, one of the staunch and devoted
women of the Relief Society. While for
some time past Sister Standring has not
been in good health, it was only a month
before her death that she was honorably
released from the position of President of
Alpone Stake Relief Society.
	Sister Standring was born February 20,
1828, at Northampton, England. She was
the daughter of William and Charlotte Ford
Smith, one of eleven children, two brothers
and two sisters now living. She joined the
Church in February, 1851, and emigrated to
America four years later, remaining in New
York and Dayton, Ohio, two years before
coming to Salt Lake City, where she ar-
rived in September, 1857. At the time of
the “move” she went to Springville, and in
1859 was married to Edwin Standring at
Lehi where she has ever since lived.
	At this time Sister Standring became
quite a leader among her associates both in
religious and social circles. She was a mem-
ber of the Lehi choir and the first lady
teacher in the Sunday school of that ward, a
position which she faithfully filled for thirty
years. She was a member of the Home
Dramatic Club and in many roles displayed
marked ability. For ten years Sister
Standring was secretary of the Lehi ward
Relief Society, and in 1879 became ward
president. At the organization of the Al-
pine stake 1901, Sister Standring was elec-
ted to be stake president of the Relief So-
ciety, in which position she was most effi-
cient and much beloved. When the Relief
Society was incorporated in 1891, Sister
Standring was elected on the direstorate and
served in that position until 1901. She at-
tended the business meetings of that body
at her own expense most faithfully, and was
considered a valuable member of the general
board both on account of her good counsel
and executive ability, but owing to the more
frequent meetings and the many calls for
the members she with others living at dis-
tances, were released. She gave her time
and service to the Lord’s work, and was one
of the most devoted, and untiring laborers
in the Relief Society cause. She has worked
for the living and the dead in the St.
George, Manti and Salt Lake temples. Sis-
ter Standring was not blessed with children
of her own, yet she had been a devoted
mother to her adopted children. Many will
always remember her and cherish that mem-
ory in their hearts.
	Her call to labor in higher fields and her
release from earthly chains came at the ad-
vanced age of nearly 86 years after a long
life of loving. The associate members of the
Alpine Stake Relief Society Board pay the
following beautiful tribute.
	During the past twelve years that we have
been working together as a Board, she has
been the guiding spirit of the almost num-
berless efforts for the advancement of the
Sisters in the Alpine Stake. Has she ever
failed in doing her part? ask those with
whom she has labored. Ask those who
have heard her voice raised in defense of 
truth; and prayer to God. We cannot for-
get that she has set before us the noble ex-

[Column 2]
ample of a pure and blameless life, and has
guided her throne with all womanly virtues.
She has shown her excellency in her public
duties, in her religion, and in the advance- 
ment of woman kind. She has on many oc-
casions inspired us to put forth our utmost
efforts to live a nobler and purer life. What-
ever is best in womanhood is exemplified in
her life. We will remember her best for
those qualities which every woman can pos-
sess. It is what one does and what one
really is that counts in the end. The long
and beautiful life of our Dear President,
will ever be a living example for all the sis-
ters who knew her in this Stake of Zion. Her
genuine good qualities, her devotedness to
duty, and her noble example, will be as a
beacon light to us all. No more fitting
words of her life could be quoted than is
expressed in one of the proverbs, "She has
stretched out her hand to the poor, yea
she has reached forth her hand to the needy,
she has opened her mouth with wisdom,
and in her tongue was the law of kind-
ness, she looked well after the ways of her
household, and ate not the bread of the 
idler.
	We, her sisters are delighted to honor
her and her memory for ever. On account
of ill health she was released as President
of the Alpine Stake Relief Society by
the sisters at a conference held at the Amer-
ican Fork First Ward, October 19, 1913.
And was officially released at a quarterly
conference held at Lehi, October 26, 1913.
She passed from this life December 19.
1913, at the age of eighty-five years, nine
months, and twenty-nine days. She leaves
two adopted children, Alice Standring 
Royle, and John Standring. A whole com-
munity and a large circle of friends to
mourn her loss. She died as she had lived, 
a true and stalwart, faithful, Latter-day
Saint. 
	Sister Standring’s funeral was held
Monday December 22, of which event, Mrs.
Julia P. M. Farnsworth furnishes the fol-
lowing:
	Sisters Cannon and Julia P. M. Farns-
worth were appointed by President Wells,
to go to Lehi and attend the funeral of
Mrs. Rebecca Standring, and represent the
General Board. The services were held
in the Lehi tabernacle, and conducted by
Bishop J. H. Gardner of the Second Ward. 
	The singing of the choir was beautiful,
and appropriate. Mrs. Clifford Young and
Mrs. F. F. Kirkham gave solos. There
were many lovely flowers. The speakers
were, President James H. Clark and Able
John Evans of the Alpine Stake presidency,
T. R. Cutler for many years, bishop of
Lehi, Mrs. S. L. Chipman counselor of
Sister Standring read a fine sketch of
Mrs. Standring’s life.
	The building was well filled, and all who
addressed the meeting testified of the noble
life work of Sister Rebecca Standring;
Mrs. Cannon spoke of working with her in
the Salt Lake temple and on the General
Board; Mrs. Farnsworth spoke of her
womanly qualities, as a home maker and
gentle woman, as an efficient director and of
the love and high esteem in which she was
held by our president, Sister Wells and all
her associates, William Southwick, a life
long friend dedicated the grave.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop’s
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH	-	JANUARY, 1914


HUMANITY VS. MILLINERY.
	To “my lady” who decks her hat in gay
plumage, the following interesting paper on
the above subject, given by Miss Linda
Jessup of this city at a recent gathering of
fashionable women, will be somewhat in-
structive in fact, the subject will doubtless
be of interest and information to all women,
for while Miss Jessup handles the matter of
birds and their plumage for adornment, in
a somewhat humorous vein, yet she does not
fail to show the seriousness of the matter
as well. It is to be hoped that the women
who desire moderation in all things and can
wield an influence for good among their
kind, will heed the lesson taught by the
perusal of this article and use it for hu-
manity’s sake:
	“We have admired and then copied our
distant cousins, living closer to nature than
we, who with the daring of the simple life
appeared at the great ceremonials clad in
nature’s true garments, their birthday
clothes, but topped always by a magnificent
headdress. Not to be outclassed we have
wares that engulf us of Pocohontas trim-
mings, a Zulu top feather, a Navajo war
bonnet, or Black Hawk feather piece.
	“If by some great act of misfortune one
of our number found herself alone on Bird
island, foodless, clotheless, bonnetless, even
as the Indian woman of early tradition,
whom the histories tell us was found on one
of the Santa Barbara channel islands after
a desertion of twenty years, her modern
sister’s ability to fashion a garment from


[Column 1]
birds’ feathers, a needle from a slender
bone, and food from the same source, would
be consistent and applauded around the
world, with a contract drawn for a series
of moving pictures. But only a few of us
can be candidates for a Crusoe existence.
	“We do, however, crave the coverings
that nature has given the natural inhabi-
tants of the Bird islands, and do not scruple
to use every means to transfer that covering
from their bodies for our personal adorn-
ment. If it were only bad for the com-
plexion or caused horrid lines and blemishes
to wear dead birds, like so many scalps,
there might then be an immediate remedy
for this wretched fashion, but the aigrette
is beautiful and becoming in its airy grace,
and so the massacre goes on, or rather, this
statement should be qualified and used in
the past tense. In the passage of the
plumage bill that is a part of the new tariff
law, the ornithologists, agriculturists, scien-
tists and friends in general of the birds with
bright or dull plumage sincerely hope they
see the beginning of the end, but, as our
state game commissioner says all new laws
have to be tried out, it is still too early in
its passage to have noted great results. We
have incurred the wrath of incoming trav-
elers, who, through ignorance of the new
law, or otherwise, have failed to declare
those delicate bits of adornment—the
aigrettes. One opera singer screamed out
her wrath when ordered to give up $1,000
in aigrettes that she had brought to this
country for stage purposes, and was loud in
her denunciation of this free land, suggest-
ing to the custom inspectors that the Statute
of Liberty be removed from its pedestal.
This new law reads:
	“ ‘Aigrettes or other bird plumage, whose
importation is forbidden by the new tariff
law, must be removed from the hats of in-
coming travelers and turned over to the
custom authorities before the travelers
leave the wharf. Secretary McAdoo today
so ruled because of reports that an aigrette
had been snatched from the hat of a woman
at New York.’
	“ ‘That the importation of aigrettes, egret
plumes or ‘osprey’ plumes, and the feathers,
quills, heads, wings, tails, skins or parts of
skins of wild birds, either raw or manu-
factured and not for scientific or educational
purposes, is hereby prohibited ; but this pro-
vision shall not apply to the feathers or
plumes of ostriches, or to the feathers of
domestic fowls of any kind.’ Think what
it will mean for the whole of the United
States by only six lines of national law to
end the disgraceful bird slaughter that is
going on in response to the demands of the
traders in American fashions.
	“Our dictators of fashion declare three
feet of lonesome trimming dangling from
the rear of our head coverings the correct
style for winter, and, with the assurance of
the feminine, we accept the crazy style, ap-
pearing in the street, in places of worship,
the ballroom, yea, even in Mr. Harriman’s
autos, do we assist those public servants in
polishing spots in the car windows. Truly
our sympathy goes out to the long suffering
individual in the crowded car, on being
sweetly addressed by the lady standing in
front of him, with, ‘Does my feather annoy
you,’ This after frequent punctures over
his countenance and a pair of inflamed eyes.
‘O no madam, I cut it off ten minutes ago.’
	“There will come a certain reaction, and
the season of 1914 may find the demure

[Column 2]
Quaker bonnet or even the calico sunbonnet
minus even the tail feathers from the barn-
yard fowl. A little extract from a paper
read at the annual convention of the New
York state federation by Mrs. May Riley
Smith will give a slight idea of the obstinacy
with which the gentle sex has fought against
every advancement by those hoping to save
the remnant of bird life. Extract: ‘Have
you read and did you shiver as we did over
the action of the forestry committee of
women in St. Louis, to whom the state fed-
eration referred the audubon pledge? Utter-
ly blind to, and apparently ignorant of the
economic relations between the insect, the
bird and the tree, which it is supposed to be
the object of a forestry committee to pre-
serve, the secretary civilly remarked: ‘I
must refuse to subscribe to that sort of
thing, because if I want to wear an aigrette
I shall certainly do so, and my conscience
won’t hurt me a particle.’ And the chair-
man agreed that ‘We must refuse to ad-
vocate the pledge, for I intend to wear one
of those very things on my hat.’ And the
newspapers that chronicled this decision
added: ‘The clubwomen of St. Louis will
not uphold the forestry committee in this
action.’
	“It is the manner of this decision, the
defiance of public sentiment by women that
hurts most in this occurrence. It was a
happy moment to turn to the delightful re-
port of ‘The Bird Masque’ given the latter
part of the summer in New Hampshire near
President Wilson’s summer home. Great
interest was aroused, not alone because of
the interest and principal parts taken by the
President’s daughters, but the beauty of the
play, its settings, out of doors and the pop-
ularity of its author, Percy Mackaye.
	“The case is far more serious than the
world at large suspects. But for the profits
the birds would be unmolested, and no un-
protected wild species can long escape the
demands of commerce. From the trackless
jungles of New Guinea, round the world
both ways, to the snow-capped peaks of the
Andes no unprotected bird is safe. Amer-
ca’s share in the destruction of the birds
for adornment purposes is 150,000,000—
Europe the same, and England 30,000,000
yearly. Millions each year!
	“Do you not marvel that Uncle Sam sat so
comfortably in his big arm chair with a bird
on one arm (and we, as a nation, not even
holding that bird sacred), complacently
waving the stars and stripes with the other
hand over his almost birdless fields? The
brilliancy of the plumage or the brightness
of the song does not argue that the feath-
ered creature is useless.
	“One pair of rose breasted grosbeaks can,
in a week, destroy all of the potato bugs on
an acre of potatoes and then keep the vines
clean for an entire season.
	“Whereas, two boys with a bucket of
paris green at a salary of one cent for every
hundred slain bugs, cannot even approxi-
mate that record. Chemistry has brought
its past breakers to great proficiency, but the
insects continue to work too insidiously and
too quickly for man adequately to cope with
them. It is for you to remember, when you
come to select your new hat, that the insect
rises as the bird falls; $200,000,000 losses
to agricultural interest is the record of the
insects in the United States, and this does
not include damage done to ornamental
shrubbery, shade and forest trees.
	“The robin has also been marked for

[Column 3]
wholesale slaughter. One small town in
Tennessee sends each year to the market
enough to bring in $500, with the price at
5 cents a dozen—125,000 robins. The fact
that a particular bird is not wanted for the
time being, is no proof of its safety. As in
the case of the grebe, it may suddenly be
declared fashionable, and the grebe was
killed off by the thousands around the lakes
in Oregon.
	“Some birds are brought into the market
as an experiment. They are killed, not be-
cause there is a demand for them, but on the
chance that the demand may be created
This shows the danger in which every spe-
cies of finely plumaged bird stands until
legislation interferes. The question that
thousands of working people would be
thrown out of employment if the fancy
feather trade were taken from them has no
foundation.
	“This material gives less labor to the
working class than probably any other kind
of trimming that could be or would be em-
ployed in its place. The profit does not go
to pay the wages of a large number of
hands. It goes to the few firms who con-
duct the business. When the wild birds can
no longer be obtained, ostrich and poultry
feathers remain, and there can be no doubt
that the use of artificial flowers and berries
and of ribbon and fancy ornaments would
increase and give more employment in the
labor market than is now given by the wild
bird plumage. Mr. McClain, in his speech
before the senate in August, refers to the
persistency with which the milliners’ asso-
ciation circulated the idea of the artificial
osprey or egret plume. The feathers were
no longer to be labeled real. Assistants were
instructed to assure lady customers that
these delicate sprays were manufactured by
the millions out of quills, horse hair, and
other material, by an army of workers who
earned their living by this pleasant and ar-
tistic work.
	“The fraud flourished until 1908, when it
became evident that the force of mere repe-
tition which had proved so successful with
an uncritical public would not stand investi-
gation before a serious tribunal.
	“The invention of artificial ospreys was
discarded for that of molted feathers. The
sprays were admitted to be real, but it was
no longer cruel to wear real plumes. They
had simply been picked out of the nests
after the birds had raised their young and
left them. That is a myth. A few torn,
badly frayed plumes are occasionallly picked
up from the swampy breeding grounds that
have been shed after nesting, but these are
too poor to command any price. These
plumes or aigrettes are in effect the mar-
riage wing of the snowy heron, or egret.
They are sometimes called ‘the love feathers’
of the birds. The story of the aigrette trade
deals with the slaughter of the innocents by
the slow process of starvation, a method
which history shows has never been followed
by even the most savage race of men deal-
ing with their most hated enemies.
	“This war of extermination which has
been carried forward unchecked for years
could mean but one thing, namely, the rapid
disappearance of the egrets of the United
States. As nesting birds they have disap-
peared from New Jersey, Maryland, Vir-
ginia and also those states of the Mississippi
valley where at one time they were to be
found in great numbers. The efforts for the 
preservation of the egrets and herons are


[Column 1]
now being pushed with greater vigor than
ever before. These aigrettes, torn from the
back of the bird during the nesting season
only, now sell for twice their weight in gold.
From $32 to $80 an ounce. Remember, one
aigrette costs five lives—the mother bird
and the four nestlings. Robbing hen
roosts grades as a respectable occupation
compared with plume hunting. One
commercial plume hunter boasted of hav-
ing killed 125,000 birds. All the collec-
tions in this country, caged and stuffed, do
not count as many skins as are sold for mil-
linery in one London auction, and there are
several auctions in a year. The imports of
millinery feathers to this country alone are
valued at $11,000,000, while the valuation of
the diamond imports at the last census was
about $12,000,000.
	“In the southern part of our country a
few years ago there must have been 500
varieties of our daintiest bits of animate
feathered life, the humming bird. Only a
few varieties are seen now. Many winter in
Cuba or Mexico and along our western
coast. In Cuba, as well as in the United
States, the humming birds have been killed
off by the thousands to swell the London
feather trade. They sell from a fraction of
a cent to 2 cents apiece, and some unfortu-
nate with $10,000 too much money for his
own good paid that price recently in Paris
for a cloak made of humming-bird skins.
	“The King of the Cannibal Isles who re-
quested that humming birds’ tongues on
toast be served him for breakfast had noth-
ing over the wearer of the cloak. The an-
cient Mexicans looked upon the humming
bird as emblems of the soul, as the Greeks
did the butterfly, and held that the spirits
of their warriors who had died in defense
of their religion were transformed into these
most brilliant of living creatures, and yet
in later years these birds were marked out
for such slaughter. In Oregon only a short
time ago there were more Chinese pheasants
than there were in China itself, and yet in
Oregon recently 50,000 of these pheasants
were killed in a single day. The hunter has
pronounced the doom of the woodchuck,
and the milliner has sentenced the bluebird.
The passenger pigeon, once so plentiful, is
now absolutely extinct. If the rumor that
an Oregon university professor has discov-
ered the nesting places of a group of these
birds in her state be true, there will be great
rejoicing. The one live specimen in the Cin-
cinnati zoo died last summer. They used to
be butchered in their breeding places by the
wagon loads. It afforded plumage and
made rare sport.
	“On the Bahama islands and in Florida
were formerly large rookeries of the flamin-
go which are now nearly extinct, and great
numbers of the white ibis, which shared in
the popularity of its delicate plumage with
the egret.
	“If only we had had sufficient sentiment
to hold this bird sacred as the early Egyp-
tions did! Two thousand years ago it was
to commit murder to kill one of these birds
in Egypt. They symbolized the soul of a
departed.
	“This superstition of the Egyptians was
so strong that burial grounds were laid out
for the ibis, their bodies were embalmed,
wrapped in costly wrappings and placed in
pottery coffins. The jackal shared in the
reverence with the bird, as he was delegated
to accompany the soul of the departed on its
journey across the great desert to the final

[Column 2]
oasis, the jackal being the only creature
capable of finding its way across that great
trackless plain. Before the ibis and the
jackal start out across the desert, the soul
of the departed is weighed against an os-
trich feather, and if not found wanting in
the balance he is permitted to start on his
hunt for the oasis.
	“The government of India made the ex-
port of skins and plumes from India illegal,
and yet naturalists and others interested in
the matter saw that in spite of this prohibi-
tion the feathers of the birds peculiar to the
East Indies continued to be offered for sale
in London.
	“It was then learned that many cases were
imported as cow hair or horse hair, a layer
of horse hair covering perhaps thousands
of skins.
	“Yet back of the feather merchant and
plume hunter, who supply the skins, are the
men who make a fashion for women and
then impose it upon them subtly, irresistibly
	“The rebellion of Audubonists against
wanton waste of the prettiest thing in nature
ought to begin, it would seem, not in the
rookeries, not in boudoirs, not in milliners’
shops, not in feather dealers’ warehouses,
but in those lofts in Paris where modes of
headgear are designed and, by authority
more autocratic than a czar’s, more respect-
ed than a pope’s, are enjoined upon a civil-
ized woman as ‘the latest things.’
	“Who did kill Cock Robin?	Nobody
clamors for the distinction:
		“‘Not I,’ said the plumer,	
		‘It’s nothing but rumor.’
		‘Not I,’ said the birdman,
		‘I’m half brother to Pan.’
		‘Not I,’ said the seller,
		‘It’s some brutal feller.”
		‘Not I,’ said the hatter,
		‘See Paris in the matter.’
		‘Not I,’ said the cat,
		‘Would I ever do that?’
		‘Not I’ said the collector,
		‘I’m partly protector.’
		‘Not I,’ said the dame,
		‘’Twas dead when it came.’”


PRESIDENT SMITH’S VISIT TO ARI-
			ZONA.
	The recent visit of President Smith and
party to the stakes in Arizona was a most
delightful occasion to the people of that part
of Zion. One purpose of the visit was the
dedication of the twin chapels at Mesa, but
many other matters of interest were at-
tended to.
	There are many of the Saints who were
forced to leave their homes in Mexico
among the people visited and to them the
wise counsel and comforting words of their
loved leader was much appreciated. A most
touching and beautiful incident of the trip
was when seventy-five children passed in
line and each one presented the President
with a rose—one for each year of his life
—one little girl saying, “for our dear
Prophet, because we love you.”
	Accompanying President Smith were
Mrs. Smith and two of the President’s
daughters, President Anthon H. Lund, Pre-
siding Bishop C. W. Nibley and Mrs. Nib-
ley, and Elder George A. Smith of the
Council of the Twelve. Later the party
was joined by President Francis M. Lyman
and Elder Joseph F. Smith, Jr., of the
Council of the Twelve, and Superintendent
Horace Cummings of the Church schools.
	The visit of the Church authorities was
a rare treat to the Saints in Arizona and
one long to be remembered. The assem-
blies both at stake conferences and schools
were so large that many could not gain en-
trance. That much good will accrue from
this visit is certain.


ELIZA R. SNOW.
	On the 21st of the current month occurs
the 110th anniversary of the birth of that
great and honored woman, Eliza Roxy
Snow Smith. She was a peer among women,
and as a leader of the women of Zion may
her name be ever remembered.
	Like Miriam of old she cheered the wan-
dering children of God with songs along the
dreary journeying way and lent aid, com-
fort and counsel to the faint-hearted and
the weary.
	With great fortitude and mastery of self
she forsook bright prospects of literary and
social attainments, and cast her lot with a
people persecuted because of their faith.
Yet in the hearts of that people she found a
place of refuge. Her hymns sung in the con-


gregations of the Saints have immortalized
her name among the younger generations,
still we do not forget that her greatest work
was achieved, not so much through the ex-
ercise of her loved gift as in the broader
field of organization. From north to south,
from east to west, she traveled; not in the
ease of Pullman cars, as we today may go,
but in all kinds of vehicles and every kind
of weather, organizing branches of the Re-
lief Society, and teaching words of truth and
wisdom to the women of Zion.
	The women of the Relief Society should
sometimes recall the names and works of
those great women of the past to whom so
much is due.


[Column 1]
		SARAH E. RUSSELL.
	The harvest of the Great Reaper this
past year o’erflows with names of the great
and worthy. With sighs and tears we scan
the long roll, noting here and there a friend
and co-laborer in the great work of the
kingdom of God. It may be in different
lines, some as educators, some ministers,
some social service workers, others writers
and poets and among the last, we read the
name of Sarah E. Russell known to the
many readers of the Exponent as “Hope.”
Her beautiful poems have graced the pages
of this paper for many years and like the
soul of the author, breathe simplicity, hu-
mility, love, forbearance, charity and faith.
	The many friends of Miss Russell were
shocked to learn of her demise which oc-
curred Sunday the 28th of December, at
3 o’clock in Tucson, Arizona. One thing
which makes the death seem particularly
sad is the fact that in all probability, Miss
Russell was one of the victims of the Mexi-
can exodus. She, with her family were
very reluctant to leave their homes in Mex-
ico and notwithstanding the many and ur-
gent requests from friends and relatives in
Utah to give up their Mexican holdings
and come back they positively refused to
leave until forced to do so by the Mexican
outrages, only then going into Arizona with
full purpose of returning to Mexico when
conditions became more settled.
	Sarah E. Russell was the daughter of
Isaac and Mary Walton Russell, and was
born at Far West, Missouri, Aug. 12, 1840.
The family of Isaac Russell, with those of
John Taylor and Joseph Fielding, were con-
verted to the Church by Parley P. Pratt, in
the spring of 1836. John Taylor met Parley
P. Pratt at the home of Isabella Russell
Walton a sister of Isaac R. Russell, in Tor-
onto, and later, Mrs. Walton took Elder
Pratt to her brother Isaac, who resided on
his farm at Charletton’s settlement, now
Downsview, a few miles northwest of Tor-
onto. Isaac Russell and Joseph Fielding
owned adjoining farms in this village. They
both joined the Church under the ministry
of Elder Pratt, and were among the first
missionaries to Great Britain in the follow-
ing year, 1837, when the British mission
was opened at Preston, where Joseph Field-
ing had relatives. The first public sermon
in England was preached at the Cockpit at
Preston in July on the first Sunday after the
arrival of the elders in Great Britain. The
first baptisms were performed in the river
Ribble at Preston. Many converts were
made, and the Church was established in
the British Isles.

[Column 2]
	Isaac Russell’s family resided at Kirtland
during his absence and upon his return,
joined the Saints at Far West, where Sarah
E. Russell was born. The father died at
Richmond, Missouri, in 1884, at the age of
39, leaving his widow, Mary Walton and
six young children. The family remained
at Richmond until 1861, when they came
to Utah and settled in the Fifteenth ward of
Salt Lake City, where Sarah E. Russell
formed many, dear and lasting friendships.
In 1882, Miss. Russell accompanied her
younger sister, Isabella M. Johnson, to
Mesa, Arizona, and thence to Mexico. They
were residing in the valley of Chuichupa,
when the present revolution in Mexico com-
pelled them to abandon their homes, and they
came as refugees into Arizona, where they
have since resided.
	Sarah E. Russell is survived by her
youngest sister Isabelle M. Johnson, who
was with her at the hour of her death and
had been her inseparable companion in life;
and by the children of her deceased broth-
ers and sisters, George W. Russell, Mary
W. Gray, Samuel Russell and Ann Jane
Howley.
	It is the regret of her many friends in
this city that they have been separated
from her in the latter years of her life and
they could not be near her in the hour of
her departure. To them she will be of hal-
lowed memory.
	The last poem written by Miss Russell
(Hope) for the Exponent was descriptive
of the condition of the Mexican refugees
and most pathetic, however, one of her
most inspired poems we think is the one
on the front page of the present number,
which we reprint from an early paper so
like it is to her, whom we now mourn.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN SICKNESS.
	It is quite surprising how few young
women avail themselves of the opportunity
to learn anything about the care of the sick
and yet most of them expect to become
mothers and have the care and training of
little children. Probably ignorance has been
the cause of more suffering and death among
children than disease, and in this day there
is little excuse for such ignorance. Nearly
all the magazines contain articles for young
mothers and from the last number of
“Woman’s Magazine’’ we cull a few instruc-
tions prepared by a trained nurse. She
writes:
	“The dangers of contagious disease are
much increased by possible complications
and the serious effects that often follow. 
The early symptoms of many contagious dis- 
eases are those of a common cold and people
are thus exposed unawares. Children should
be taught never to kiss persons suffering
from colds, never to use the handkerchief
of another nor to drink from a common cup
or glass.
	“Should a child succumb to contagion,
isolate it in a large, well ventilated room,
free from draughts and accessible to sun-
shine, place the bed out in the room shaded


from strong lights and facing away from the
window.
	“Chicken pox appears about two weeks
after exposure, usually with slight fever.
There is an eruption within the first twenty-
four hours of crops of reddish pimples,
thickest on the back, which become blisters
in a day or so and scale off in a week.
	“Keep the child quiet in bed on a light
diet while the fever lasts and isolated until
the last scale has fallen. Inflamed eyes,
which often accompany this disease as well
as measles, should be guarded from bright
light and relieved by cold compresses. Ex-
posure after the disease often results in se-
vere bronchitis or pneumonia.
	“Measles develop about ten to fourteen
days after exposure, are very contagious,
and may be carried in the clothes.
	“The disease begins with red weeping
eyes, nasal discharge, dry cough and all the
symptoms of a severe cold. It is accom-
panied by fever, loss of appetite and on the
third or fourth day irregular patches of
small dark red raised spots appear first on
face, neck and arms, and later in trunk and
legs. There is also itching of the skin espe-
cially during peeling.
	“The child should be kept in bed until the
fever is over and the eyes carefully guarded
from strong light and bathe them three
times daily with boric solution. Cleanse the
nose and throat from discharges and do not
permit mouth breathing. The bowels should
be kept open, as the disease is partly thrown
off in that way.
	“The diet for a baby should be milk, for
older children fluids during the fever and
semi-solids later on.
	“Even the mildest cases should be rigidly
cared for, since eye, ear, nose and throat
troubles often complicate or follow measles.
It is advisable whenever a rash appears to
call in a physician or some one who can
accurately diagnose the case.”


NOTES ABOUT WOMEN.
	Mrs. Lillie Devereaux Blake, a pioneer in
the cause of woman suffrage, died in a san-
itarium at Englewood, N. J., December 30,
1913, aged 80 years. She had been ill for
several years, and recently had a turn for
the worse, when it was seen that because
of her advanced age her recovery was hope-
less.
	Mrs. Blake was the author of several suc-
cessful novels in her earlier years, but de-
voted the greater part of her life to cham-
pioning the cause of woman’s rights. She
was born in Raleigh, N. C.
	Another woman Mayor has been elected
in Oregon. A dispatch from Troutville
says that Mrs. Clara Larrson has been
chosen to that office by a majority of five
over the man who opposed her.	
	Oregon’s other woman Mayor is Miss
Clara Munson of Warrenton, who was
elected by the Citizens’ ticket last year.
	The town of Kanab, Utah, has a woman
mayor and the city council is composed en-
tirely of women. The executive ability of
women is gradually being recognized not
only in the suffrage states but the recent
appointments of women to Federal positions
shows that President Wilson realized, the
fact that women of the nation should
receive some public recognition.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


BINGEN ON THE RHINE.
		(A Story Re-told.)
O Bingen, storied Bingen, a favored lot is
	thine,
There nestling by the mountains beside the
	glorious Rhine;
Where maidens oft were weeping and sighing
	“Love of mine,
Come back, come back to Bingen,” fair Bingen
	on the Rhine.

And tearful mothers praying, still say “Thy.
	will not mine,”
Though far away is sleeping the soldier of the
	Rhine.
The dying eyes fast closing saw where the
	sunbeams shine,
On that dear home in Bingen, loved Bingen
	on the Rhine.

Escapes a sigh, a heart throb, I cannot but
	repine;
I see that soldier dying who babbles of the
	Rhine,
And happy days of childhood, loves of that
	earlier time;
When fading was the picture of Bingen on the 
	Rhine.

The battle long hath ended, sad memories
	round it twine,
But ne’er will be forgotten the soldier of the
	Rhine.
He marched away in triumph, fast stepping, 
	straight in line,
But ne’er returned to Bingen, the home be-
	side the Rhine.

And other hearts have broken, crushed by the
	woes of Time
That in the hour of passing sighed “Bingen
	on the Rhine.”
O peaceful is thy beauty when sun, or moon-
	beams shine
Appears as scene elysian the gently flowing
	Rhine.

So in life’s closing moments the heart doth
	ever pine,
For childhood days in Bingen, fair Bingen on
	the Rhine;
Soft evening shades are falling, the sun’s rays
	fast decline,
But loath I leave thee Bingen, O Bingen on
	the Rhine.

There is a something whispers as if a breath
	divine,
The tales of love and parting beside the witch-
	ing Rhine;
A[-] rapture strange, mysterious, o’er fills this
	heart of mine,
And tear drops fall unbidden while sailing on 
	the Rhine.

There comes a sadness o’er me, and thoughts
	none may define,
Not known before beholding the grandeur of
	the Rhine;
And in the days far coming, will memory round
	it twine—
Bring dreams forever cherished, I dreamed be-
	side the Rhine. 
					LYDIA D. ALDER.


[Column 1]
MADAME BERNHARDT HONORED.
	From Paris comes the news that at last
the name of Sarah Bernhardt has been
added to the roll of fame of the Legion of
Honor. Her claims have been put for-
ward several times but the influence of
 a strong element in French society pre-
vented the French actress from obtaining
the decoration.
	Among the famous women who are pos-
sessors of the red ribbon are Adelina Patti,
Mme. Curie, the Baroness de Rothschild,
Mme. Paquin, and Mme. Dutrieu; the
aviator.


MARY E. LEIGHTNER.
	Another noble and true woman whose
death it is our sad duty to chronicle is Sis-
ter Mary E. Leightner, who died Dec. 17,
1913.
	Sister Leightner was born April 9, 1818,
in Lima, New York. She joined the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in the
fall of 1830, just six months after the
Church was organized, or at the time Oli-
ver Cowdery, Peter Whitmer and Zeba Pe-
terson came to Kirtland, Ohio,  and estab-
lished a branch of the Church. Father Mor-
ley was ordained an elder to preside over
this branch of the Church.
	Sister Leightner was one of those chosen
spirits who seemed called for the special
purpose to help in the building up of the
kingdom of God upon the earth. She
passed through all the trials and persecu-
tions of the Saints in Missouri and Illinois,
and with unfailing faith endured many
hardships. She was sealed to the Prophet
Joseph Smith before his death.
	Sister Leightner moved from Salt Lake
City to Minersville, Beaver county, Utah, in
1863, where she made her home until the
time of her death. Her funeral was large-
ly attended by friends who honored and
loved her good and noble work.
	At her funeral letters of condolence were
read from President Joseph F. Smith and
Stake President J. F. Tolton. There were
present at the funeral, twenty-one persons
who had attended school as students of
Sister Leightner. Bishop Marshall, Elders
Myers, Banks, Lee and Wood, also Sister
Sarah B. Gillins, spoke words of consolation
and told of the faithful and unselfish life
of the good woman. She lived a life it
would be well to emulate. So, one by one
are passing from earth those who knew
the Prophet Joseph Smith, and whose tes-
timonies of him and his mission are so
treasured by the Saints.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		BOX ELDER STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of Box
Elder Stake held at Willard, Nov. 15th,
1913.
	President Sarah P. Stohl presided.
	Present, besides Relief Society Stake of-
ficers: President Oleen N. Stohl, Counselor
W. C. Horsley, Bros. Burt, Cook, and
Facer of the High Council. Bishops Wright
and Hubbard and several brethren from
Willard.
	President Sarah Stohl announced this
conference was held in honor of two of our
old sisters. Sister Nancy Whitaker, a mem-
ber of the first organization at Nauvoo, and
Sister Bathia Wells, a daughter of Brother
Elijah Fordham. Said this morning’s ses-
sion would be in honor of the Prophet Jo-
seph Smith.
	Opened with singing, “Praise to the
Man,” etc.
	Opening prayer, Bishop Brigham Wright.
	Singing, “Oh, give me back my Prophet
Dear.”
	Minutes of previous forenoon conference
read and accepted.
	President Stohl was pleased to see such
a good crowd out this morning and that
the weather was so favorable; was pleased
to have the privilege of holding our confer-
ence here at Willard, and felt to appreciate

[Column 2]
the kindness and thank the sisters for their
invitation; appreciated the sisters of the
Stake Board and the work of the local of-
ficers; said we had held district conferences
in some of the wards and felt the work
was going on.
	Sister Mary Frodsham gave the 44th
chapter of the life of the Prophet, which
treats on the miraculous healing of Elijah
Fordham and others by the Prophet.
	Sister Bathia Wells, a daughter of Elijah
Fordham, bore her testimony, and gave in
detail the incident of the healing of her
father by the Prophet, said she knew the
Prophet, saw him taken to prison, and saw
his body when brought from Carthage, was
at the meeting, when the mantle of the
Prophet fell on Brigham Young, was thank-
ful to see this day, and if her testimony was
any good to strengthen the testimony of
any one, she wished to be of service;
thanked the Lord for her faith, and for His
blessings to her, and hoped she might ever
be found trying to serve the Lord.
	Brother George Harding had seen the
Prophet Joseph and remembered him quite
well; told how they used to hold meetings
in the grove, at Nauvoo; said the most im-
pressive things to him in connection with
the Prophet, was taking a message to him at
his home, and the fatherly talk, which he
gave him; spoke of his own baptism and
confirmation by Hyrum Smith; related an
incident just before the death of the Proph-
et. Bore his testimony that Joseph Smith
was a Prophet of God, and hoped we would
stand firm and steadfast to the principle
taught by him.
	The hymn, “The Seer,” was rendered by
Sister Lottie Owens.
	Sister Nancy Whitaker, one of the sis-
ters who belonged to the first Relief So-
ciety organized at Nauvoo. She told of
the work of the organization and the sew-
ing done, but on account of being rather
feeble, her age being nearly 94, her grand-
daughter, Martha Woodland, read her testi-
mony, which she had previously written
down, as she had told it.
	President Oleen N. Stohl had been very
interested in this meeting, and could not
help but say Joseph Smith was a prophet
of God; bore his testimony to the same; said
he was glad to say that those who would
accept the Gospel would have thep rivilege
of bearing this testimony; said if we have
faith and can live the Gospel we can have
the privilege given us to do all the things
required of us; spoke on the growth of this
Church, especially in the organization of
the Relief Society, and the inspiration of
Joseph Smith to organize it, said if you
want to be happy, do something in the
Church, and if you don’t accept this mis-
sion you will never feel good; encouraged
all to work and know for themselves that
this gospel is true; spoke on tithing and
keeping the Sabbath day holy, and other
laws of God, and the blessings received by
keeping them; said, Let us work for the
service of God each day, and put the best
we have into it. Bore a strong testimony
to the power of God in his own behalf, and
felt he could not appreciate the blessings of
the Lord enough. God bless you, my sis-
ters; I feel your hearts are in the work.
	President Sarah Stohl was thankful for
the presence of so many of the brethren;
said the afternoon session would be devoted
to Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith.


Sister Agnes Owens, president of Willard
Relief Society, felt to welcome all, and
wished all to stay to lunch.
	Singing, Doxology.
	Prayer, Brother Wm. Facer.
	Afternoon Session.
	Singing, ‘I’ll Serve the Lord while I am
Young.”
	Opening prayer, Sister Jane Owens.
	Sister Lula B. Call read and explained
the song, “Oh, my Father,” which was af-
terwards sung by the congregation.
	Roll call showing 260 members present,
the stake board answering, by sentiments
from Sister Snow’s poems and sayings.
Minutes of previous afternoon conference
read and approved.
	Sister Stohl hoped the same good spirit
which had been with us this morning would
stay with us this afternoon; wished to thank
the sisters of Willard for the splendid lunch,
and pleasant noon hour.
	Sister Rachel Evans gave a sketch of the
life of President Eliza R. Snow Smith.
	The hymn, “The trials of the present day,”
was sung as a duet by Sisters Eliza White
and Alice Nebeker.
	Five minute reports were given, on sew-
ing done, nights spent with sick, quilts
made, means gathered for wheat, and other
items for six months, by the secretaries of
the following associations: Willard, Perry,
Harper, Third and Fourth Wards of Brig-
ham City.
	The “Hymn, “The Lord has imparted
from above,” was sung as a solo, by Sister
Della Nuttal.
	Reports continued, Brigham City First
and Second Wards, Bear River City and
Honeyville.
	Sister Mosiah Evans of the Bear River
Stake Relief Society, was pleased to be
here today, and visit with us in the confer-
ence; said she had heard much today that
would increase her faith; thought the tes-
timonies of those old sisters was a great tes-
timony to us; felt we ought to be so thank-
ful that we belong to the Relief Society, and
may we be inspired to go on and lead bet-
ter lives was the blessing she asked for all.
	Bishop Jos. Hubbard said it had been a
day of rejoicing to him, in listening to the
program and the testimonies of the sisters.
Felt it an honor to have this conference
held here and felt to extend a glad wel-
come to all; felt this conference would do
much good in helping to create interest in
this work.
	President Stohl was sorry the time was
so short, as we could not hear from all we
would have liked to hear from; said Presi-
dent Stohl wished her to express his appre-
ciation for the welcome extended to us;
was pleased with the reports, but felt there
was room to do better. Let us put forth our
very best efforts to further this work.
Wished again to thank the sisters and may
the Lord bless all.
	Singing, “Truth Reflects upon Our
Senses.”
	Benediction, Patriarch Edwin Cordon.
		SARAH P. STOHL, President.
		ANNIE H. LITTLEWOOD, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


OBITUARY.
	Resolutions of respect to Sister May Ash-
worth-Booth, passed by the Relief Society
Board of Utah stake, of which she was sec-
retary:


Whereas, Our Heavenly Father has, in His
infinite wisdom, taken from our midst our es-
teemed and dearly loved sister, May Ashworth-
Booth; and,
	Whereas, The intimate relation held during
a long period of time, by her, with the mem-
bers of this Board, makes it fitting that we re-
cord our appreciation of her; therefore,
	Resolved, That the wisdom and ability which
she has exercised in aid of our work by counsel
and service, will be held in grateful remem-
brance;
	Resolved, That the removal of our dear sister
from our midst leaves a vacancy and a shadow
that will be deeply realized by all members of
the Board and its friends;
	Resolved, That with deep sympathy with the
afflicted relatives and friends of the departed,
we express an earnest hope, that even so great
a bereavement, may be overruled for their
highest good.
	That we unite our sentiments with our loved
sister Aretta Young, in her following tribute:

	Oh, Friend:
Thou hast too early gone to thy long rest:
Dear one, good-bye;
We would have kept thee,
(’Twas our hearts’ desire),
Within our domain here,
To make the world more dear,
More rich in friendship’s great bequest;
But thou didst tire
’Neath mortal pain and weariness,
And God hath called thee to thy rest:
	Beloved, farewell!

In grief our hearts are still,
He knoweth best, dear heart,
Bowed ’neath the Father’s will;
Why we should part;
And since thou'st passed the "Silence drear,”
Death’s gloom hath less of awesome fear—
The lonely pathway more of light;
Sweet friend,  good night.

	Sister Booth was born September 28,
1874, to Wm. and Mary E. Ashworth, in
Beaver, Utah. She graduated from the B.
Y. A. (now U.) in 1895; was married to
A. L. Booth of Provo in Salt Lake Temple,
in June, 1900; gave birth to five children,
three of which she laid away at birth. She
is survived by husband, two little daughters,
father, mother, six brothers, four sisters,
many other relatives and friends. She was
always a faithful worker in the Church.
	Died, Oct. 10, 1913, Provo, Utah. 
				ALICE T. BLAKE,
				EUNICE S. HARRIS,
				SARAH HOLDAWAY,
							Committee.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	A band of First Settlers, in Quaker dress,
will march in the parade which the Pennsyl-
vania suffragists are planning to hold in
Philadelphia. The Friends were probably
the earliest of modern religious denomina-
tions to give women equal rights in the
church—or rather in the meeting house—
and in colonial days Hannah Penn for some
time acted as Governor of Pennsylvania.


MADAME DAVENPORT, AGE 90, AD
	DRESSES LADIES’ CLUB.
	The absolute demonstration of a new out-
look for the human race was made re-
cently at the Ladies’ Literary club in
Salt Lake City, when Madame Charlotte
de Goliere Davenport personally illus-
trated the possibility of retaining at
90 years of age the appearance, viva-
city, physical elasticity and mental vigor,
not of youth, yet of the best of an early
prime. Madame Davenport, claiming to be
in her ninetieth year, and the mother of 24
children, appears hardly 50, and moves,
speaks and talks with the charm of a girl
of 20 years.
	Her points were made with a freshness
and wit which kept her audience bubbling
with laughter at times, and interested and
enthusiastic throughout.
	“Many people are sick,” said the speaker,
“because they are too lazy to take the trou-
ble to be well, or because they selfishly cling
to their ailments, loving them too well to let
go.” She illustrated her belief with many
interesting incidents, and continued: “There
is but one class of people for whom I have
a contempt—it is the sick. I have helped
to cure many people by showing them they
should be ashamed of their ailments instead
of exploiting and boasting of them. That
is what I call complaining—it is boasting—
and by it the sick build up what they pre-
tend to want to get rid of.”
	Madame Davenport is on her way to
California to teach a class of 75 women
“how to take care of themselves.” She has
been eight times around the world; served
38 years as private teacher of hygiene to
the empress of Austria, and now holds a
pension given her by the emperor Franz
Joseph. It is at periods like that in which
she measures her life: “I taught 25 years,”
at such a place: “I studied that science for
65 years,” and so on. Madame Davenport
states that she has a son 71 years of age,
one of 11 sons out of the 24 who are still
living. She remained in the city a week,
and it was hoped would address the young
girls, in whom she declares she is especially
interested.


THIRTY-FOURTH
ANNUAL ANNOUNCEMENT
			OF
	Dr. Ellis R. Shipp’s
	SCHOOL OF NURSING
	AND OBSTETRICS
	Beginning October 6, 1913.
		Hours 9 to 12 a.m.
For full particulars communicate with
	ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D.,
713 Second Avenue, Salt Lake City, Utah

R. K. THOMAS CO.,	67-69 MAIN STREET,
					SALT LAKE CITY.
	The most becoming Styles in Ladies’
	Suits, Coats, Dresses, Skirts, and
	Waists at Popular Prices.
THE STORE WHERE YOU CAN FEEL AT HOME


[---]
Mary A White
					WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
		The Organ of the Latter-day Saints’ Woman’s Relief Society.
