Elder David B. Haight Called to Be an Assistant to the Twelve Elder David B. Haight was sustained as an Assistant to the Twelve at the Solemn Assembly held at General Conference April 6, 1970. At the time of his call to be a General Authority, Elder Haight was serving as assistant to President Ernest L. Wilkinson at Brigham Young University, and had served as a member of the Church Priesthood Missionary Committee, and as a Regional Representative of the Twelve. From 1963-1966 he served as president of the Scottish Mission. Prior to that he served for twelve years as president of the Palo Alto Stake in California.

Elder Haight has been active in civic affairs throughout his lifetime. He served as mayor of Palo Alto, Chamber Downtown tion, director of the Red Cross Peninsula Blood Bank, on hospital and area councils. His business activities have included executive positions with ZCMI in Salt Lake City, and with Montgomery Ward in Chicago. Since 1952 he has been president of a retail store organization in Palo Alto.

Elder Haight was born in Idaho, on September 2, 1906, a son of Hector C. and Clara Tuttle Haight. On September 4, 1930 he was married to Ruby Olson of Salt Lake City. They are the parents of two sons and a daughter, David B., Jr., Robert Peter, and Mrs. Karen Huntsman.

Elder William H. Bennett Called to Be an Assistant to the Council of The Twelve On April 6, 1970 at the Solemn Assembly of the Annual General Conference of the Church, Elder William H. Bennett was sustained as an Assistant to the Council of the Twelve. At the time of his call, Elder Bennett was serving as Director of Extension Services at Utah State University, a position he has held since 1962. He was serving in the Church as a Regional Representative of the Twelve. He has been a member of the Priesthood Missionary Committee, the Priesthood Welfare Committee, a counselor in the East Cache Stake Presidency, and counselor in the Madison Branch Sunday School.

Elder Bennett holds BS. And M.S. Degrees from Utah State University, and a Ph.D. 408 from the University of Wisconsin. He has served at Utah State University as Dean of the College of Agriculture, assistant director of cooperative extension, and as associate professor of agronomy. He was president of the Utah State Ag club and won the President's Citation from the Soil Conservation Society of America, along with several other awards and citations.

Elder Bennett is a native of Taber, Alberta, Canada.

He was born November 5, 1910, a son of William Alvin and Mary Walker Bennett. He is married to Patricia June Christensen, and they have one son and five daughters: Camille Kay, William Bradford, Mary Ann, Julee Hazel, Deborah Pat, and Jacqueline Bennett.

PHOTOGRAPH BY Se: Vi) Written P But; to t, 'V© fathered. 4 end VOL Ain inle leat "