Rise and Shine" Marian R. Boyer Member, General Board of Relief Society

LeGrand Richards and his wife Ina Ashton Richards at the time of their 50th wedding anniversary. They have since celebrated their 60th anniversary.

Nearly every morning of my childhood I was awakened by my father calling from the bottom of the stairs, "Rise and shine. Get up and put on your beautiful garments." Father has habitually been an early riser. The sound of water in the shower or from the hose outside has always been accompanied by Father's less than melodious voice. In true operatic fashion he serenaded us with such songs as "Nellie Bly Caught a Fly and Tied It to the Sky," "She's Only a Bird in a Gilded Cage, a Beautiful Sight to See," and "Two Little Girls in Blue." His days always commenced as he has lived his life—with faith, enthusiasm, and "gusto."

I would have to admit 410 his love for the Church and Heavenly Father came first, with the family a close second. In fact, Mother always claimed she was married to the family and Father to the Church. Father was taught the closeness of family ties in his own home. There were fifteen brothers and sisters who were devoted to each other. They were guided by a loving father and mother.

A favorite story of mine, which Father tells, occurred at Christmas time when he was working in Salt Lake City and his father's family was living in Tooele. It had been a tradition for the family to be together for the holidays. Arrangements had been made for Father to catch the late train for home on Christmas Eve. It took longer than usual for him to finish his work so he missed the train. The thought of not being with the family being a dreary prospect, he hired a horse and undertook the forty-mile trip on horseback. It was a cold night, with heavy snow falling. He wondered if he had been foolish to attempt such a journey and nearly turned back several times. The wind whipped the snow and seemed determined to keep him from his destination. When the train arrived in Tooele without him, Grandfather (George F. Richards) knew that Father would try to reach home some other way. One of the boys in the family was sent by horse and buggy to find the nearly frozen traveler. As Father was wrapped in blankets and settled in the buggy, he remarked to his rescuer, "I knew Father would send someone."

The same family closeness carried over into our own home. We had family nights when I was very young, usually with our own family, but sometimes with other families in the ward. Fast day was always a special day. Father, when bishop of Sugar House Ward, let the children of the family help count the fast offerings and tithing. In those days donations were not made by check, but in silver and greenbacks. In fact, I even remember a few gold pieces. What fun the family had around the dining room table making stacks of coins and piles of greenbacks! How proud we felt when we were given the responsibility of counting the money!

Many lessons were learned and experiences related as the tithing was carefully counted and put in bags for delivery to the bank in the morning. Father always put the bags in the pan cupboard saying that if anyone tried to take them, at least he would be sure to hear.

Many of the best times the family had centered around Church activity. As we were growing up a new meetinghouse was built. We were "permitted" to donate our war bonds to the building fund to pay for a bench in the chapel. I have memories of taking lemonade to the ward for the men working there; of Mother making pies for the carnival given to raise money; and of the whole family being involved in every project. We were proud of our father as the bishop, even though we resented constantly being reminded of our responsibility to be good examples to the other ward members.

As children we lovingly called our father "Busy Shop" instead of bishop. A few years after the chapel was built and the organizations were running smoothly, the call was made in General Conference for men to go on a six months' mission. Typical of Father, he volunteered. This was his third mission. His first mission, as a young man, was in Holland. A few years later he returned to Holland as president of the mission. At this time there were three children in the family (all girls). Another girl was born while we were there.

By the time Father went on his third mission, which was to the Eastern States, the family had four, each player attempts to pull the other over by locking inside legs. This has been a favorite sport of Father's. He has achieved an agility and never have I seen anyone able to throw him. This day Father made short work of some of the older boys. He threw them over quickly and then challenged one of the grandsons who had a job working with a jackhammer to acquire physical fitness for football in the fall. On the first try, Father flipped him over easily. I believe the young man was a little afraid of his own strength as compared with that of his grandfather. On the second try the football player was again flipped over. After the third time we proclaimed Father the champion Indian Wrestler. He still reigns supreme.

The memory of my father will live in the lives of many by reason of his missionary zeal and Church activity, but I shall always remember him for his love of family and children. At Christmas time it is traditional for him to carry a bag of silver dollars for the little ones. He delights in hearing the children sing the Primary song, "I Always Have a Happy Feeling When I Go to Church." I shall always remember the precious letters I have received from him on Mother's Day, but most of all, I shall always be grateful for Father who has strengthened our eternal family ties by officiating at the marriage of four of our children in the temple.

These are some of the sweet remembrances I have of my father.