JAPAN Lovely Land of Contrasts
Caroline Eyring Miner

Tony, our guide in Kyoto, Japan, the ancient capital, tiptoed up to a wooden box near the big Torii gate, the largest in the world, and threw in some coins. Then he clapped his hands in a pattern of seven claps to draw the attention of the universal gods before he prayed for his heart's desire. With such magic claps, we open this brief account of Japan—lovely land of contrasts.

Japan is a land with the very old and the very new side by side as you will see both in the ancient kimonos and westernized costumes which the people wear. You will notice contrast in the quick restlessness of the city people since World War II who seem to belong to nothing at all, and the tradition-bound peasants of the little villages.

Japanese people love baseball and yet cherish sumo, an ancient form of ritualistic wrestling. You will notice contrast in the green and flowering islands and the neon-lighted capital of Tokyo. Soaring over Tokyo for an hour and a half before we could land, we saw the sacred Mount Fuji, through the clouds far distant, and below us the teeming city.

Rimming the bay were strange fishing boats, green hills bordered by clusters of tiny tile-topped houses huddling along winding, hilly roadways. Japan is ancient and modern, happy and sad. The drabness of the houses of Tokyo contrast with the lively silks of the ceremonial kimonos seen in the country areas.

I think of the complexity of Tokyo, largest city in the world, of the Ginza particularly, in contrast to the quiet rice paddies and lake areas. I contrast the crowded water fronts with the quiet little country villages shuttered and sleeping in the weeping rain. In Japan the very young and the very old are loved and cherished, another contrast.

The practical business men of Tokyo contrast with the starry-eyed in city and country who are lovers of cherry blossoms and of the waxing and waning moon, and of blue morning glories and flaming maples. Japan is a land of big business and of little home businesses. It is the most highly industrialized and westernized nation in Asia and stands as a symbol of progress.

Japan is a very small country composed of 142,726 square miles and is slightly smaller than Montana, a State in the United States. It is made up of four large islands, Honshu, Kyushu, Hokkaido and Shikoku and 3,325 smaller islands and islets extending in a 1200 mile curve off the northeast coast of Asia. It has great variety in surface features because the earthquakes have constantly changed this land.

The islands are mountainous, volcanic, with very irregular coastlines. Fertile land is limited, so even much of the lower mountain area is farmed. As I traveled through the countryside, I thought that even the forests looked as if they had been raked and cultivated as every inch of good land is precious.

The rivers are short, falling steeply in many places, so there is much water power available for electricity. There are five hundred volcanoes, some still active. The sleeping volcano, Fujiyama, with its perfect cone, is the highest point in these rocky islands, reaching 12,395 feet. It is sacred and famous the world over. Tourists search for it to photograph its beauty but find it cloud-enshrouded much of the time.

The climate of Japan is mild and temperate except on the northern island of Hokkaido, where the climate is much like the extreme northeastern part of the United States. Rainfall is heavy, the rainiest months being May and June. The climate is moderated by the warm Japanese current. The average yearly temperature is close to seventy-two degrees Fahrenheit with summer temperatures up to ninety degrees.

I found I could not stand to wear a plastic raincoat in the summer because of the heat.

Because of the heavy rainfall, the islands are emerald green with luxuriant growth covering the slopes of the mountains. Beautiful evergreen trees are everywhere in the mountain country and even in the rice country there are little forested areas surrounding village shrines. The forest area is over half subtropical, a mixture of broadleaf evergreens and conifers. The temperate forests are largely oak, maple, and elm.

The forests provide charcoal, wood pulp, fruits, nuts, bamboo, and mushrooms. Flowering azalea, plum, cherry, and chrysanthemums are everywhere in their seasons, making this lovely country a flower garden. Japanese gardens are famous for their pools with lotus blossoms and water lilies and huge gold fish.

Some of the gardens are famous for the miniature trees and plants, dwarfed by a special process known by these expert, painstaking gardeners. 

Birds are numerous and varied in Japan, some of the well-known ones being herons, hawks, nightingales, sparrows, cuckoos. Songbirds are enjoyed and protected.

Only the brown bear, wild boar, and a few poisonous snakes are harmful animals found in Japan. Nara is famous for the many tame deer that wander around in the park area near the shrines and delight the tourists and children. Few places are far from the sea in Japan and few are far from mountains. This makes for magnificent scenery and for pleasant activities, mountain climbing and fishing and sailing. There are some beautiful lakes in the mountain areas and many resort hotels in the scenic parts of the country.

Japan has over 100 million people and is therefore the seventh most populous nation in the world with only a rank of fiftieth in area. Sixty-five per cent of the people live in the cities. Seven cities in Japan have over a million population and Tokyo has more than ten million people. Osaka, the site of the International Exposition for 1970, is the leading commercial and industrial center. It has more than three million people. Kyoto is a beautiful green city with many unusual shrines and gardens. Block printing, jewelry carving, silk weaving plants are some of the artistic industries we visited. We saw workmen washing great strips of dyed silk in the canals.

Japan is the only Asian country with a great middle class. The family is the basic unit of Japanese society and parents exercise a good deal of control over the children. We visited a farmer's home in which a grandfather lived with the young couple and their three small children. The kitchen and storeroom were on a lower level than the bedroom and dining room and front room. There was a Shinto family altar and a Buddhist altar in both living room and kitchen. A cow was in a little shanty lean-to at the back. The people of Japan are almost one hundred per cent literate. They love their country, and I saw large groups of sight-seeing students in dark uniforms at almost every shrine. Japan publishes more books than any other Asian country, and Tokyo is the publishing center of the Orient. Through education people get ahead in Japan and a degree from Tokyo University almost insures a person a good marriage, still largely arranged by the families through go-betweens. It also insures a good position.

Japanese art emphasizes nature and, even today, this has withstood pressures of modernization. I brought home some beautiful wood-block prints distinctly traditional in design. Pottery and china use the flower designs rather extensively. Noritake china is commonplace in the United States where the price is reasonable for a beauti-ful set of dishes. Japanese architecture reflects the traditional and is influencing architecture in the United States. There are many famous gardens, including the Katsura Imperial Villa, and the very sophisticated rock garden of Ryoanji Temple, both in Kyoto.

The main industries of Japan are agriculture, fishing, manufacturing, and processing. The biggest handicap to industry is the lack of raw materials. Japan has sulfur, a little low-grade coal, and just a little oil. Almost all metals must be imported. Japan must trade or perish and she must manufacture and process to trade. Japan leads the world in the production of cameras, bicycles, motorcycles, transistorized radio and television receiving sets, and electronic microscopes and is doing very well in the automobile business as well.

On May 3, 1947, the new postwar Constitution went into effect. It vests sovereignty in the people and makes the Diet (Congress) the highest institution of State power. There is a two-party congress. The Emperor is now the symbol of the State and the unity of the people. He only performs ceremonial functions. The Prime Minister and his Cabinet are the organs of real power. The courts are a separate entity. With these features, Japan is called a constitutional monarchy. Japan has forty-six Prefectures or States, each of which elects a governor. The cities also have their elective governments.

Many famous temples and shrines are scattered throughout Japan. There is a saying to the effect that if you have not seen Nikko you have not lived. This is an elaborate shrine set in a forest. I was intrigued with the many prayers tied on the branches of the trees leading to the shrine placed there by those who desired special blessings. It is at this shrine that you find the famous monkeys engraved with the idea: see no evil, hear no evil, speak no evil.

A sukiyaki dinner in a large restaurant in Tokyo was a notable experience. The waitresses who prepared the food as we all knelt or sat on pillows about low tables, then sang and played quaint instruments and childish games.

Buddhism, Shintoism, and Confucianism, are three important Oriental religions of Japan. The usual faith is a combination of Shinto and Buddhism. It has been estimated that there are thirty-eight million Shintoists, sixty-five million Buddhists, and only 850,000 Christians. Freedom of religion is guaranteed.

In 1901, three stalwart missionaries, Heber J. Grant, Horace S. Ensign, Louis A. Kelsch, as well as a young elder Alma O. Taylor, only eighteen years of age, sailed to Japan to open that far distant country to the preaching of the gospel of Jesus Christ. President Grant spoke these prophetic words: "I have the assurance in my heart that there will be a great and important labor accomplished in that land (Japan). The inhabitants are a wonderful people." (Conference Report, .)

In addition to the four missionaries mentioned above, who at different times served as presidents of the Japanese mission, Elbert D. Thomas, H. Grant Ivins, Joseph H. Stimpson, Lloyd O. Ivie, and Hilton A. Robertson served as presidents. This was during the early period when translating was an important part of the work. Proselyting continued in Japan until the withdrawal of missionaries in 1924 due to the feelings of the Japanese toward the United States. The Japanese mission was reopened in Hawaii among the Japanese there, and the Church branches in Japan were directed from that island. This was considered the second period of the mission.

After World War II began the third period of missionary work in Japan, starting in 1948 and continuing to the present. This period was begun under the leadership of President Edward L. Clissold. Many of the Occupational Forces were Latter-day Saints, and they assisted greatly in a spiritual as well as a financial way. Elder Matthew Cowley was the first General Authority to visit Japan after the War. He arrived in 1949. There were 2,200 people attending the meetings held by twenty-seven missionaries. Other General Authorities who have visited and encouraged the people in Japan have been Elder Harold B.

Lee in 1954, who was instrumental in having the work begun in Korea and the Philippines;