The Fulfills Its Purposes Irene W. Buehner, Member, General Board of Relief Society Six stakes prepared beautiful displays for the Magazine department of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, . The various purposes for which The was published provided the theme for each stake to develop as it chose. Sisters from many parts of the world admired the displays, and Magazine representatives, particularly, gained renewed enthusiasm to encourage the reading of The .

"PROMOTES THE WORK OF RELIEF SOCIETY" Oquirrh East Stake Evalyn O. Olsen, A Stake Relief Society President TREASURE Connie K. Johns, Higga Seek Ii6 Stake Magazine Representative TRANSPARENCIES BY J M. HESLOP Lovely white handmade lace draped over blue silk, covered the table. An antique trunk with raised lid revealed the "Treasures of The ." From the interior of the trunk sparkling jewels and rich velvet fabric spilled onto the table depicting the "treasures." Gold foil discs placed on the table held open Magazines which indicated how the many programs of Relief Society are effectively promoted by the Magazine.

"EDUCATES, DEVELOPS, BENEFITS LATTER-DAY SAINT WOMEN" Bonneville Stake Elisa R. Wirthlin, Stake Relief Society President Isabelle Peterson, Stake Magazine Representative Three large blue frames edged with gold stood on the table which was attractively covered with a tailored blue cloth. The beautifully découpaged pictures within the frames were taken from s to portray the theme assigned. The "Editorials," "Spiritual Messages," and "Homemaking" all were designed to educate, develop, and benefit women.

"SERVES AS A HISTORY OF RELIEF SOCIETY" Provo Stake Grace S. C. Milner, Stake Relief Society President LaRue B. Davies, Stake Magazine Representative A large green burlap-covered disc provided an attractive background for the lovely quilted Relief Society emblem and other cleverly contrived colored felt pictures of historical interest. Gold doilies placed on the blue cloth-covered table framed the articles and pictures taken from The which portrayed events from the pioneering and colonizing periods up to the present day. This display pointed out that each issue of The is carefully and accurately preserving a choice historical heritage for future generations.

"ENCOURAGES CREATIVE WRITING" Wells Stake Pearl E. Lund, former Stake Relief Society President (now a member of the General Board of Relief Society) Gertrude S. Fullmer, Stake Magazine Representative The Wells Stake featured Alice Morrey Bailey as representative of the many writers who have been encouraged by having their prose and poetry printed in The . Alice Morrey Bailey is an artist in many fields of endeavor. She designed and assisted in the preparation of this display. An elegant burgundy velvet cloth covered the table. An enlarged in a gold frame was placed on an easel behind the table, and the center of interest was the thirty-one bound volumes of the Magazine marked to indicate the issues which contained the published work of Alice Morrey Bailey.

"THE IS READ AROUND THE WORLD" University West Stake Annie M. Ballantyne, Stake Relief Society President Margaret D. Scott, Stake Magazine Representative This display dramatically depicted the world-wide distribution and influence of The . The University West Stake created a beautiful paper maché replica of a world globe. The round table was draped with an exquisite gold satin cloth. Miniature flags of various countries marked areas where the Magazine is being sent. Blue ribbons connected the map areas with the open s artistically arranged around the table. The Magazines featured an article or indicated a contributor from that particular part of the world.

"CONVEYS INTERESTS, OPINIONS, AND STANDARDS OF RELIEF SOCIETY" Mesa Stake Ada J. Jones, former Stake Relief Society President (now a member of the General Board of Relief Society) Ethelyn J. Madsen,