Lilies of the Garden and Field Leila Grace Bassford LILIES—what vistas of enchantment the word evokes. We conjure up in our mind's eye tall flowering spikes of trumpet-like blooms, or tiny groundhugging species that literally carpet their own particular spot of earth. But whatever the variety, it is always rewarding to have lilies in the garden. Known as the aristocrats of the garden, they lend distinction and beauty wherever they are placed, and their culture is surprisingly easy. For most varieties, given a minimum of tender loving care, a well-drained, partially shaded location, a bit of fertilizer, plus plenty of humus (half decomposed leaves are good for this purpose), and they will thrive and reward you with an abundance of extravagantly rich and fragrant bloom. VARIETIES Most of the better known garden lilies are hardy and multiply rapidly, and in a few seasons the lily culturist will 442 have extra bulbs and clumps of well-rooted plants to share with her fellow gardeners, which is half the fun of gardening. Two of the most popular tall garden species are the pure white Madonna Lily (Candidum) and the Regal Lily (Regale), white with lilac and brown shadings on the outside, and yellow shadings on the inside base. Both of these species adapt themselves well to garden conditions, and propagate readily. Day Lily (Hemerocallis) has long, sword-shaped leaves, and the multiple flowers, each lasting but a day, are borne on a tall leafless stalk. The older varieties shade from pale lemon to deep orange. The newer hybrids come in mahogany, rose, bronze, and red shades. These are a favorite with many gardeners, as they are exceptionally hardy, thrive almost anywhere, reproduce enthusiastically, and are a colorful and decorative addition to the midsummer garden. Even the dainty Lily of the Valley (Convallaria Mayalis), with its graceful spike of white bell-like blossoms, whose appearance of fragility belies its hardiness, has all the charm, in miniature, of its taller, more imposing sisters. WATER LILIES The Water Lily (Nymphaea) is probably the most versatile of all garden lilies. The varieties include both the hardy, and the tender or tropical, the latter having both day-flowering and night-flowering types. The hardy types range in color from pure white to deep vermilion, with all sorts of shadings in yellow, bronze, and copper. The color range of the tropicals is an infinitely varied palette of blues, violet and purple, pinks, deep rose, and dark red. Most growers like to have some of both varieties in their pools. But one must be careful not to crowd them. They need room. You have no pool, and yet you love water lilies? Sink a galvanized laundry tub into a sunny spot in your garden, fill a box or other suitable container with at least a cubic foot of good rich soil, and plenty of nutriments (water lilies are gross feeders), plant one root of your choice therein, and submerge the whole in your laundry tub with eight to sixteen inches of water above the crown of the root. And there you are. Or there your lily is, when it has absorbed the proper light and heat to bring it to perfect bloom. Lilies of the Garden and Field WILD LILIES Equally as lovely as their cultivated sisters are the "lilies of the field" that star nature's wilderness gardens. Almost as soon as the snow melts, we find the petite Glacier Lily (Erythronium), sometimes called Dog-Tooth Violet, although it is not a violet at all, but a lily, blooming in the canyons and higher elevations. Indeed, I have seen them in Glacier National Park before the snow melted, whole fields of them, "fluttering and dancing in the breeze" like Wordsworth's daffodils, their brilliant, nodding yellow heads with drooping brown stamens in delightful contrast to the fields of snow at the base of the cliffs. The Sego Lily, a member of the Mariposa Lily family (Calochortus), with its thick creamy white petals and heart of gold, blossoms in May in sunny, sandy locations. It is especially beloved by Utahns, and is their State flower. As the early Mormon pioneers in the Utah valleys discovered, it has an edible root, and they used it to supplement their meager diet before the development of their crops. Transparencies by the Author