Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family
Preview of Lessons for 1970-71
Textbook: Out of the Best Books, volumes 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5, by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas

When the present cultural refinement program was first developed seven years ago, it was planned to be a six-year program using a series of books on literature to be written by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas and correlated with music and the fine arts. That program has now functioned for the past six years, using volumes 1 to 5 of Out of the Best Books. It has been decided that the lessons this year (1970-71) will continue to be based on the materials already available in the five volumes of Out of the Best Books.

In the hundreds of letters received from Relief Society sisters commenting on the Out of the Best Books series, the principal criticism has been that in each lesson there was so much material that it could not all be covered in one lesson period; hence the class leaders and members were concerned in trying to cover much or in trying to decide what to teach and what to omit. A great deal of material was placed in each lesson for two reasons: first, to provide a variety of readings so that each class leader could find some selections particularly appropriate to the sisters in her group, and second, to furnish a rich offering of selections that Relief Society women might take into their homes for stimulating, enriching reading within the family.

Even though both of these purposes are very sound, we realize that it may have created a problem for cultural refinement leaders. It has been decided, therefore, that for 1970-71, approaches somewhat different from those used for lessons during the past six years will be employed. There will be seven new lessons and not just duplicates of lessons already studied. Each lesson will refer to a number of selections spread throughout the five volumes so that the class leader will have an opportunity to choose certain selections which may have been passed over in her Relief Society group or which she may want to reemphasize for the particular needs of the group.

In each lesson the focus will again be upon the enrichment of Latter-day Saint women's lives through the cultural arts, in harmony with the ideals of the gospel. In addition to presenting lessons as stimulating and valuable as possible for the Relief Society sisters, class leaders should particularly encourage all Relief Society members to share with their families the many excellent reading selections found in these volumes.

The outline of individual lessons for 1970-71 is as follows:

Lesson 1—A Family Reads and Sings Together
Northern Hemisphere: Fourth meeting, 
Southern Hemisphere: Fourth meeting, 
Objective: To present selections that enrich family discussions, provide wholesome entertainment and strengthen family relationships.

Music Commentary: The following musical selections are suggested to correlate with the objective of lesson 1. We encourage class leaders to consult with their respective choristers and organists as to the preparation and presentation of them.
Title Composers Publisher
Homing Salmon—Del Riego Chappell & Co., Inc. 3013 SSA
There Is Beauty All The Church of Jesus Christ Around of Latter-day Saints Hymns, no. 
'Mid Pleasures and Payne—Bishop The Church of Jesus Christ Palaces of Latter-day Saints Hymns, no. 
Lesson 2—A Thankful Heart
Northern Hemisphere: Fourth meeting, 
Southern Hemisphere: Fourth meeting, 
Objective: To encourage within a woman a spirit of faith and gratitude to God and an attitude of reverence and worship through poetry and the other arts.

Art: "'Sunflowers'' by Claude Monet (1840-1926) French painter
Reproduction of Painting, page 448 The , 

Commentary, p. 
Lesson 3—Sisterhood in a Worldwide Church
Northern Hemisphere: Fourth meeting, 
Southern Hemisphere: Fourth meeting, 
Objective: To develop an appreciation for the various cultures of the women in the Church through showing how people throughout the world share a concern for the good and the beautiful.

Music Commentary: The following musical selections are suggested to correlate with the objective of lesson 3. We encourage class leaders to consult with their respective choristers and organists as to the preparation and presentation of them.
Title Composers Publisher
The Gospel Gives Belle S. Spafford—J. Christian Co.
Unbounded Strength Alexander Schreiner (to women in these last days) 1053
My Cup of Joy Ruth B. Lehenbauer Pioneer Music Press 1008 SSA
In a World Where Sorrow Smith—Excell The Church of Jesus Christ Hymns, no.

Number of your choice 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 | agree to buy a minimum of four LDS Books Club selections during the next 12 months at the regular advertised price. A New Series on the Pearl of Great Price

A new series on the Pearl of Great Price, researched and written by Roy W. Doxey. The eight lectures offer "Comprehensive coverage of Pearl of Great Price." An indispensable supplement to the Spiritual Living Lessons for both teachers and students. Topics discussed: 

- The Origin of the Pearl of Great Price
- The Doctrine of the Godhead 
- The Premortality of Mankind
- The Creation
- The Eternal Nature of the Gospel
- Satan and Mankind
- The Atonement of Jesus Christ
- The Lord's Work and His Glory

Also available is the Pearl of Great Price Bibliography by Dr. James R. Clark. The reader will find this publication an excellent source for scholarly research which presents a variety of viewpoints concerning the Pearl of Great Price.

BYU PRESS Publication Sales 
205 UPB Provo, Utah 84601

Please send me copies of:
- Lecture Series on Pearl of Great Price $2.25 each plus 25c mailing and handling.
- Copies of Pearl of Great Price Bibliography $.75 each plus 25c mailing and handling.

Name __ Address City State

478 KSL Radio's Hill Cumorah Tour 
16 days departing July 18 and July 25, 1970. $310 per person
23 Day Tour including Canada departing July 25, 1970. $438 per person

For details, write: KSL RADIO 
145 Social Hall Ave. Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 home of radio

NORTH PACIFIC COAST TOUR June 11-20
HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT TOURS 16 and 23 Days—Leaves July 
CANADIAN ROCKIES and NORTHWEST TOUR August 17-30
HAWAII ALOHA TOUR October 8-21

Call or write for itineraries 
James Travel Tours 
2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723

Lithdey Congratulalicns

Names of Latter-day Saint women who have reached the ages of ninety or older may be submitted by anyone for inclusion in the Birthday Congratulations column. The full name (maiden and married), age, month of birth, street address, city, state, and zip code, should be submitted at least three months before the birthday.

Mrs. Martha Swenson Richards Pocatello, Idaho
Mrs. Amelia C. Humble Bartsch Salt Lake City, Utah
Mrs. Lilley Gange Coles Driggs, Idaho
Mrs. Clara Collard Nielson Provo, Utah
Mrs. Lily White Parker Kennewick, Washington
Mrs. Catherine Archibald Atkinson Sait Lake City, Utah
Mrs. Carrie Riggs Phelps Tucson, Arizona
Mrs. Sophia Jensen Potter Las Vegas, Nevada
Mrs. Freda Johnson Christensen Kearns, Utah
Miss Phebeth Ann Seymour Salt Lake City, Utah
Mrs. Emma Ray Riggs McKay Salt Lake City, Utah
Mrs. Elizabeth Elyra Allred Aiken Salt Lake City, Utah
Mrs. Jennie Mable Brooks Pinkham Avery Suncock, New Hampshire
Mrs. Freda Johnson Christensen Kearns, Utah
Mrs. Kathrine Jensen Olsen Elmonte, California
Mrs. Eleanor Post Peterson Safford, Arizona
Mrs. Amanda Munk Smith Logan, Utah
Mrs. Margaret Boyle West Salt Lake City, Utah
Mrs. Sarah Groves Crosby Bountiful, Utah
Mrs. Eva Elmina Penrod Sabin Boise, Idaho

Mrs. Edith Loretta Drake Tingey Centerville, Utah
Mrs. Elizabeth Bailey Yeates Logan, Utah
Mrs. Anna Norblad Anderson Tooele, Utah
Mrs. May Pratt Silver Edgeworth Huntington Park, California
Mrs. Ida Bertha Zollinger Hill Rexburg, Idaho
Mrs. Ella Berry Leigh Cedar City, Utah
Mrs. Susan Adams Lewis American Fork, Utah
Mrs. Ida Walser Skousen Chandler, Arizona
Mrs. Annie Eliza Burrell Carroll Salt Lake City, Utah
Mrs. Inez Curto de Guinaldo Buenos Aires, Argentina
Mrs. Susannah J. Fowler Henefer, Utah
Mrs. Emily Maria Maddison Hanson Providence, Utah
Mrs. Maria Ann Porter Hardy Ogden, Utah
Mrs. Mildred Ann Couch Harter Bend, Oregon
Mrs. Ella Matthews Hymas Ovid, Idaho
Mrs. Elenora Jensen Cleveland, Utah
Mrs. Martha Marie Hansen Lindstrom Tacoma, Washington
Mrs. Amber Irene Severe Palmer Pocatello, Idaho
Mrs. Lydia Willis Paskett Henefer, Utah
Mrs. Laura Emily Nay Stark Marysvale, Utah
Mrs. Anna Neal Greenwood Waters inkom, Idaho

479 - BUY ONE BOOK & GET ONE FREE for joining BEEHIVE BOOKCLUB (Purchase $4.95 and choose any $3 Book Free!)

P R I Z E 2 X e f = 5. = i) ~ 3 P a s * L i S e n * S s x g B R!? %. R s r y = & Q Q: 20 MORMON CLASSICS: "Books that continue to prove their lasting value!"

1. Mission Bible 15.50
2. Missionary Triple Combo 11.00
3. Marvelous Work & Wonder 1.95
4. Jesus the Christ—Talmage 23.50*
5. Articles of Faith —Talmage 21.05" 
6. House of the Lord —Talmage 2* 
7. Teachings of Joseph Smith 3.95
8. Essentials in Church History 5.95
9. Answers to Gospel Quest. 5 vols. 3.25 ea*
10. D&C Commentary 4.95
11. Meet the Mormons—Green 2.95* 
12. Discourses of Brigham Young 4.95
13. Gospel Doctrine J. F. Smith 4.95
14. Art of Home Making-Hoole 4.25
15. Comp. Hist. Of Ch. 6 vols. 4.50 ea.
16. Doc. Hist. Of Ch. —Smith 7 vols. 4.50 ea. Discourses of J. Smith 4.95
18 Highlights in Life of Pres. McKay 4.95
19 Mormon Doctrine —McConkie 6.95
20 BofM Digest— Hawkes 4.50

21. Out of Best Bks. Vol V Special 3.00*
23. Beginnings— Pearson 2.50* 
24. Ancient Apostles 2.95* 
25. Just a Minute—; Landau 5.50
26. Prophecies & Prophetic Promises of D&C 4.95

*