Cathedral Valley Winifred N. Jones F I had known what that Sep- | tember day would bring, I ~~ wouldn't have been so reluctant to awake when the alarm shrilled in the pre-dawn blackness. It was a cloudy, cool morning and I wondered if any scenery could be worth getting up that early. But we found scenery that was worth not only the early rising, but the long ride, the dust, and hiking. We went to Cathedral Valley! The very mystery of its location stimulated our interest in this far valley lying somewhere in the wild canyon country south of Price and the level cliff country, and southeast of Emery and the strange "castle country." It was still dark when we left our homes in Provo, Utah, and as we started up Spanish Fork Canyon the dawn was brightening in the east. As we drove out of Price the sun was touching the tabletops of the dark mountains which rise above the peculiar olive-drab reaches of the valley. The general effect of dreariness was heightened by small, sharp, isolated mounds of dirt which contrasted with clay or mud, showing signs of heavy erosion. 'This part of the trip affects the observer with a weariness of soul which seems almost like a preparation in contrast to the magnificence farther south. We followed the highway to Emery and thirteen miles beyond, then we turned off on a dirt road leading east past some coal mines and piles of volcanic ash. Here we drove through a long stretch of Utah desert with eerie rock formaPage 590 of eastern Utah, tions, small vegetation, and the eternal variance of color. A line of pink cliffs suddenly broke this panorama, and the country changed character with a suddenness that startled us.. Here the hills were strewn with black boulders of lava as though tossed there by a petulant giant tired of a game. In the roadbed itself, and on the hillsides, agates and jaspers were lying with their brilliant pink, salmon, and orange colors contrasting with white and green markings. A real find for a "rockhound." But we were searching for a greater spectacle, and we found it. Twenty-five miles from where we had turned from the highway we stopped our car at the top of a valley rim. For here in this almost unknown country we had reached the spot where only horse, jeep, or "Shank's Pony" could go across country. This particular section of Utah was long familiar to stockmen and a few intrepid prospectors, but otherwise was virtually unvisited until 1945 when Worthen Jackson of Fremont, Utah, took a group of soldiers into the area to hunt for a crashed plane. New discoveries are still being made in the area, which includes both East and West Cathedral Valleys. Several previously hidden canyons have recently been disclosed which contain magnificent cathedrals of red rock. One spot in this wonderland is crisscrossed with lava dikes, some of which rise two hundred feet in the air. CATHEDRAL VALLEY Willard Luce 591 aaa E ae THE GREAT STONE CATHEDRALS GOME of these lava dikes were before us now, not quite that high, but sharp and black against the sky like borders of mourning. They are called the Walls of Jericho. We looked down from the valley rim and before us was the wonder of West Cathedral Valley. From the floor of scrub sagebrush in the narrow valley the towering cathedrals rise in sheer magnificence. Carved from red sandstone, they mount hundreds of feet and are domed with gray caps of a hardier stone. Where this capstone has eroded, the rains and winds have shaped the cliffs into pinnacles, spires, and chimneys with long flowing lines which rise directly from the valley with little or no slope. The quietness of the valley moves into your very being as you stand literally spellbound by the spectacle. Since water is scarce and vegetation sparse, there are only a very few desert creatures to disturb the stillness. As we walked along, the forms of the cliffs seemed to alter as our perspective varied. A few, though, were of definite shape. At one side was a gigantic lady's slipper, and at another a fireplace and chimney. In between two of the cathedrals was a tremendous "V," with sides perfectly matched, cut in the smooth, red wall. We stayed until late afternoon, taking pictures and watching the shadows change patterns on the brilliant color. Finally, we had to leave. 'Trudging back up the sandy trail to the car, we were filled with calm and a new respect for the mayesties of nature. As we began the long north trip home, three eagles soared high above us in lazy circles as if they knew security here from man's encroaching civilization. Dwarf Iris Sylvia Pezolt FTER Herb left for work Dora Baker took the morning paper from beside her husband's plate. She picked up a piece of toast to munch, patted the bouquet of dwarf blue iris that Herb brought home last night, and spread out the newspaper. Funny how Herb liked the early spring iris. They had thought he could have a bed of them at their new home, but the raw yellow dirt from the cellar excavation was fatal to the few he transplanted. She sighed and glanced at the headlines. | "Eastern Situation Still Tense!" Eastern Situation—that meant Korea. Was Jim?—she wouldn't read it. She twitched the paper and turned to the inside section. A cartoon on the classified page offered relief, and as she bent closer to focus her glasses on the caption, an address leaped out of the box ad next to the cartoon. The address of her old home! Yes, there was no mistake. It said For Sale. For sale again after two long years. 'Two years of regret, of wishing herself back, of nights when tears burned her eyes and made her head ache, of days of constant comparison between this small, new, ultra-modern stucco, and the big, old, shabby frame house. Two years of silence for fear Herb would suspect how she felt. For it was she who had wanted to move. She had said she wanted a smaller, more up-to-date house. She had complained of the big, oldPage 592 fashioned frame house, of the long, narrow windows that took twice as much ladder climbing to wash as small windows. She had said that the old furnace gobbled fuel, and had refused to listen when Herb had pointed out that they were warm during the big blizzard a few years ago because of the large storage space for fuel. That the new house would be closer to Marjorie's school was the argument that decided Herb at last. "It would be closer to Marjorie's school," he admitted, opposing the move as usual, "but she won't always be going to that school. Next year it's college, and then maybe marriage." "Then we won't need so much room," Dora had declared triumphantly, clinching the argument. "Then there are those stair posts. Every one is loose at the bottom. You've never taken off the gate at the head of the stairs we put there when Jim was a baby." "Kept him from falling down stairs,' he had chuckled, turning automatically to the radio, as he did whenever Jim was mentioned. The radio and the iris bed were Herb's life. He had chosen the spot by the incinerator for his iris bed when they bought the frame house in the first years of their marriage, and the warmth did seem to bring the shoots up and the blue buds out earlier than in any other bed in the neighborhood. And now there was a chance to go back. DWARF IRIS But this she couldn't admit to Herb. She'd said too much against the old home. She'd have to manage it herself. 'There were her bonds, and the money from the sale of the old house in their joint account. 'That would be enough for a deposit. Time enough to tell Herb after. 'Then she could eat humble pie, she'd have her home again. She'd see the real estate man today. Her heart sang as she thought of being back in the old neighborhood, only a few blocks from church, and close enough to run in for a chat, in a house dress, with ever so many old friends. Perhaps she'd better call the real estate agent. She'd make sure he was in. It might be necessary to go this morning. Carefully folding the paper back to the advertisement, She dialed. Only the buzz, buzz of the busy signal answered. T' was at a sewing meeting she'd first heard about her new stucco home. Someone was telling about the lawyer who had come from another town to take the place of the young Mr. Jackson who was called back into military service. "He has a houseful of children," She had heard an animated voice say, "and all he can find is this cunning little two-bedroom number over on the other side of town." "He needs your big place, Dora," the hostess laughed. Dora hadn't laughed. She could hardly wait for the meeting to end to hunt up the lawyer and talk of exchanging houses. Herb had said no more, but she'd seen him bending over the iris bed that night long 593 after it was too dark to distinguish flower from weed. The new house cost more than they had wished to pay, but the old house brought more than they expected, so Dora shrugged it off. Moving was worse than she anticipated, for the accumulations of twenty years didn't fit easily into the smaller house. They owned too much furniture for such a streamlined place of efficiency, yet nobody wished to part with anything. Even Marjorie, whom Dora felt she could count on as an ally, proved petulant about the arrangement of the house, which seemed too open. "Goodness, Mother," she said, glancing around the living room and through the nearby bedroom doors, "I can't bring my friends here. We'll be in Dad's hair all the time. You know how he likes the radio." But it was really Jim's letter that spoiled the new house for her. Jim had sailed across the Pacific before she had found the place, and since his letters were addressed to their postoffice box she did not take time, in the hurry of moving, to explain. Then she could not. "It is such a comfort," Jim wrote, "to think of you all safe and happy at home. When I am tired or cold, or dirty, or scared, I shut my eyes and see Dad weeding the iris bed or Mother sitting at her sewing machine with all the mended clothes hanging on the gate that kept us kids from falling downstairs. And I think of my own little room where I was always warm, and the bathroom with so much hot water, and (Continued on page 639)