[Vol2 | January 1915 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial]

EDITORIAL .   RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Susa Young Gates Business Manager Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah.Vol. II January, 1915. No. 1 Genesis. The most interesting phase of human life is its beginning? the entrance into life of a human soul, with its beautiful and grave possibility. The early spring is the most delightful time of the year, when the pussy willows are blushing under the warming rays of the sun, and the delicate greens of the ditch banks are showing through the brown earth crust. The organizations of materials for the building of a great ship ? the focusing of intellects on the launching of some great national enterprise ? all of these inspire the deepest reverence, and the most earnest thought. Creation. The creation of a world, of a house, or of a loaf of bread, is but the assembling of forces and materials which are co-existent with our Heavenly Father. We do not create anything materially; we only fashion and organize. Is this not true also of the spiritual world? While we may seem to discover new truths, or organize new forces, it is but our personal discovery of truths and forces which are co-existent with us. We are like children playing with a kaleidoscope. There are all the bits of glass, colored and shaped, which lie before our eyes; and, as we turn them, they constantly form new combinations. 
 Second Literary This new Relief Society Magazine which Child of the the General Board are creating, with so Relief Society. much hope, so much faith, some dread, and fear, and trembling anxiety, ? this new literary venture is not the first creation of this great Relief Society. Brigham Young and Eliza R. Snow started the Woman's Exponent, over forty years ago, with Lula Greene Richards as editor, made it the organ of the Relief Society of the Church. The wonderful work accomplished by that literary missionary under the editorship of President Emmeline B. Wells will not be fully known until eternity unlocks the doors of human endeavor, and gives us the scales with which to weigh mortal efforts. Watchful This magazine is, in its way, the new-born babe Care Over of the Relief Society. All of us are more or less Its Infancy. concerned in its parentage, birth, and beginning. Its genesis, its creation, has become a part of the lives of us all, and although its foster mothers of the General Board may have an extra charge concerning its infantile years, and the stages of its further development, still, it is to my dear sisters of the Relief Society everywhere that the magazine must look for nourishment, for support, for means of education, and for full development. This magazine belongs of right to every woman in the Relief Society throughout the whole Church. The Mission of It is impossible for us to be sure what any Our Magazine. child of ours may become. How much more impossible, then, to forecast what shall be the future, the final character, of this literary infant, newly-born. If the Editor of this enterprise might shape its policy and fashion its fulfilment, she would have this magazine filled with the Spirit of the Lord from cover to cover. In order to do that, no article should be published which would encourage vanity, hurtful luxury, sin, or any evil passion of the human breast. Rather would we make of this magazine a beacon light of hope, beauty and charity. The Christian world have all the virtues. They practice many of the moral precepts of true religion; they are charitable, kind, honest, and intelligent. They lack one thing, and one thing only, and that is the Gospel of Jesus Christ in its fulness, taught by those having authority. It is, therefore, the spirit and genius of the Gospel which we would like to develop and expound brightly, attractively, cheerfully, and hopefully, to the readers of the Relief Society Magazine. Guide Lessons. This year our lessons will comprise four subjects. After much thought and consultation, it has been decided to use our Literature and Home Gardening lessons as articles, or departments, in our magazine. Therefore, we will have ten lessons each in Theology, Genealogy, Ethics, and Art. The lessons in Theology are taken from Gospel Themes, by Elder Orson F. Whitney. This was used as a Manual in the priesthood course, in 1914, and most of the sisters have access to that book. Lest any should not, we are reprinting that portion covered in our lessons. The Genealogical Lessons are based on the Lesson Book published by the Genealogical Society of Utah, and all the sisters, practically, have that book. Hence, no material will be republished. The Art Lessons are taken from Devotees and their Shrines, and the sisters have this book also, or can easily secure it. Hence, only outlines are given of this study. We invite your serious attention to the lessons that follow, and only add that the General Board stand ready to aid you wherever and whenever you may ask