Award Winners Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Prize Poem Contest
THE Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the names of the three prize winners in the 1942 Eliza R. Snow Memorial Prize Poem Contest. This contest was announced in the August 1942 issue of the Magazine and closed October 15, 1942. The first prize of $15 is awarded to Dott J. Sartori, 3388 So. 9th East, Salt Lake City, for her poem "Your Heritage." The second prize of $10 is awarded to Beatrice K. Ekman, 287 Eighth Ave., Salt Lake City, for her poem "While the Earth Turns." The third prize of $5 is awarded to Linda S. Fletcher, Apt. 320 - 20th So. York Street, Denver, Colo., for her poem "Symphony of the Snow." This poem contest has been conducted annually by the Relief Society General Board since 1923 in honor of Eliza R. Snow, second general president of Relief Society and a very gifted poet. The contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women and is designed to encourage poetry writing and to increase appreciation for creative writing and the beauty and value of poetic verse. Prize-winning poems are the property of the Relief Society General Board and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rate. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. There were 63 poems submitted in this year's contest. The General Board congratulates the prize winners and expresses appreciation to all entrants for their interest in the contest and the general excellence of work submitted. The Board sincerely thanks the three judges for their valuable assistance in selecting the prize-winning poems. The contribution of the General Board's poem committee is also greatly appreciated. The prize-winning poems, together with photographs of two of the prize-winning contestants, are published herewith. The photograph of Linda S. Fletcher, winner of third prize, was unavailable.
Page 11
Prize-Winning Poems Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Prize Poem Contest
DOTT J. SARTORI BEATRICE KNOWLTON EKMAN