Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon WITH time, woman's sphere has expanded from the primitive dugout to the whole intelligent universe. In today's world, woman is laborer, mechanic, soldier, doctor, lawyer, scientist, statesman, nurse, teacher, philosopher, poet. Never has she had such power to shape the destiny of men and of nations. God grant she may use her strength wisely and kindly and justly in helping to rebuild the shattered world! RENSELAER POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE, the oldest engineering college in the nation, now for the first timeis adinitting women both to the student body, and to the faculty. IN the University of Southern California two departments are headed by women: the German, by Mrs. Ruth Day, and the Latin by Dr. Ruth Brown. MRS. E. O. HOWARD, "mother" of Salt Lake's beautiful Memory Park, which hallows the memory of the dead heroes of World War I, has lost a grandson in the present conflict. In the former war her only son, a captain in the American forces, died in the Argonne just before the Armistice. His only son, who was born shortly after his father's death, a flyer in the Eagle Squadron, gave his life in this struggle. WENDELL L. WILLKIE reported that Mme, Chiang Kai-shek is the only individual he 'ever met whose personality far exceeds the build-up of press agents. America feels high enthusiasm for the visit Page 34 of this wise, sympathetic Chinese woman who has stood beside her husband in battle and counseled him in his overwhelming difficulties. THE entire personnel of one aircraft factory in Britain is made up of women. MRS. JULIA ELLERTSON ROBINSON, 94, died recently in Salt Lake City. N the American Bundles for Britain campaign, the Red Cross contributions alone have totaled $31,000,000. THE WAACs are to be increased from 25,000 to 150,000. HE spirited young Russian sniper, Lieutenant Lyudmilla Pavlichenko, has captivated American audiences by her intelligence, character, and sincerity. She fights to preserve home and country. She hopes to marry and rear a family after the war. DONNA D. SORENSEN, former counselor in the General Presidency of Relief Society, and a present General Board member, and Leona F. Wintch, General Board member, have each recently given birth to a son. PHILOSOPHY in a New Key: a Study in the Symbolism of Reason, Rite, and Art is a new scientific book of worth and originality by Dr. Suzanne K. Langer of Radcliffe College. One challenging idea in this book is that "man can adapt himself somehow to anything that his imagination can cope with." EDITORIAL Vol. 30 JANUARY, 1943 No. 1