Notes From the Field" appear in the Magazine for June 1942, page 420.
RELIEF SOCIETY CENTENNIAL OBSERVANCES
Juab Stake (Nephi, Utah)
FOLLOWING is an account of the centennial observance of the Juab Stake Relief Society, of which Chloe N. Bailey is president, which appeared in the Nephi Times News: "The observance of the Relief Society centennial was held in local wards of Juab Stake on March 17. Through the courtesy of the General Board of Relief Society, a centennial gift was presented to each ward in the form of a phonograph record containing centennial messages from President Heber J. Grant and President Amy Brown Lyman. "The North Ward Relief Society planted a tree in accordance with the recommendation of the General Board. A short program was given in connection with the tree-planting on Tuesday afternoon, March 17. Talks were given by A. E. Smith, bishop, and Robert P. Garrett, counselor. The record sent by the General Board was played. The tree, a cutleaf weeping white birch, was planted on the North Ward Relief Society grounds. "On Tuesday evening, a pageant, "The Gate Beautiful" was presented by the North Ward Relief Society to members of the three Nephi wards. The pageant was under the supervision of President Mary E. Boswell and was directed by Ellen
Page 48
Garrett, Fern B. Garrett, and Minnie J. Smith. Music was furnished by the Monson sisters of American Fork, a quartet consisting of Afton Lambert, Emma C. Cannon, Eugene Beck, and Nello Sudweeks, which sang appropriate selections, and solos were given by Verda Beck and Emma C. Cannon. Mrs. Douglas Jones was the reader, and members of the cast were Relief Society women of the North Ward. The pageant was a most creditable performance. "The Nephi Ward observed the centennial with an appropriate program which consisted of an account of the first Relief Society organization given by Birdie C. Jones; humorous selections by Florence R. Winn; a duet by Susannah and May Wilkey; cello solo, Vivian Hoyt; tribute to former presidents of the Nephi Ward Relief Society, given by Priscilla Wilson. Each president was presented with a flower. A reading, 'I Am Proud' was given by Mrs. Douglas Jones. Mrs. Laura B. Brough made an interesting report of changes in transportation, dress, home conveniences and status of women during the one hundred years since the founding of Relief Society. A chorus of Singing Mothers rendered two selections.... "In the South Ward an address of welcome was given by counselor NOTES FROM THE FIELD 49 CENTENNIAL PAGEANT, "THE GATE BEAUTIFUL" Woodruff Ward Relief Society, Snowflake Stake Jennie Hobbs. Former stake presidents, Addie Cazier, Unity Chappell, Maude Forrest, and Edna J. Cazier gave brief reports of the accomplishmerts of the Relief Society of Juab Stake under their respective administrations. A piano duet was given by Julia and Mignon Pyper, and Zelma Golden and Ida Memmott sang a duet. A centennial play 'Is It Possible?' was presented under the direction of Louise C. Vickers. Flowers were presented to the former stake and ward presidents and counselors, to the oldest visiting teacher, the youngest members of the Relief Society, and to the mother with the largest family. At the close of the program, refreshments were served. "The Mona Ward observed the - centennial by a social held in the afternoon for all women of the ward, at which time the record from the General Board was heard and birthday cake was served to all present. In the evening, the play 'Is it Possible?' and a pageant 'By Their Fruits Ye Shall Know Them' were presented by the women of the ward. The Singing Mothers furnished the music for the performance. The play and pageant were under the direction of Lizzie W. Kay and Erma Keyte." Snowflake Stake (Snowflake, Arizona) LOVINA E. LARSON, president of Woodruff Ward Relief Society, sent the accompanying picture of a beautiful and impressive pageant presented February 13, 1942, at the ward centennial celebration. It was entitled "The Gate Beautiful."  SINGING MOTHERS' CHORUS, NORTH IDAHO FALLS STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY CAST OF CENTENNIAL PAGEANT, "MOTHERS AND DAUGHTERS OF THE AGES," IDAHO FALLS FOURTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY, NORTH IDAHO FALLS STAKE NOTES FROM THE FIELD North Idaho Falls Stake (Idaho Falls, Idaho) ELLA A. EVANS, second counselor in the Relief Society presidency of the North Idaho Falls Stake, submitted the following report of centennial activities in this stake: "We wish to report to you some of the centennial activities of our stake. We presented the cantata 'Resurrection Morning,' by B. Cecil Gates, as a stake unit of one hundred Singing Mothers. The chorus furnished the music for our stake conference. The cantata, conducted by Mrs. O. D. Hendrickson with Mrs.. J. O. Mellor as accompanist, was presented Sunday afternoon, March 15, 1942, in the stake tabernacle. It was very well rendered to a large audience. We had members participating from eleven of the twelve wards and branchesone branch being sixty-three miles away. We held a prayer meeting with all chorus members before the concert, and then presented cach member with a golden boutonniere, and the chorister and organist with a blue and gold corsage. "At this meeting we displayed the scrapbooks made by eleven of our twelve wards and branches. In their arrangement the books showed much originality, artistic ability, and historical worth. A volume of Gospel Standards by President Heber J. Grant was presented, to the centennial chairman of the Ucon Ward as a prize for the best scrapbook. "On Monday, March 16, we left daffodils with twelve Latter-day Saint mothers, reminding them of the centennial observance the next day and of the time of the radio 51 broadcasts from Salt Lake City. From the interest shown by these mothers, we certainly felt well repaid for the calls we made. "On March 17, the Idaho Falls Fourth Ward held a special centennial program with President Luna Norton and counselors in charge of arrangements. Under the direction of Mrs. Jacob H. Trayner, with Mr. Trayner as reader, a pageant in twelve scenes, entitled 'Mothers and Daughters of the Ages,' was presented with special costumes and lighting effects to a full house. Mrs. J. O. Mellor, pianist, and Dorothy Burnham, violinist, rendered appropriate music during the pageant. Twenty-six persons represented the various characters portrayed. One scene showed a reproduction in giant size of the cover of the January 1942 issue of Reproduction of cover of January used in pageant by Idaho Falls Fourth Ward Relief Society  CENTENNIAL TREE-PLANTING CEREMONY ON NEW IDAHO FALLS TEMPLE GROUNDS, NOVEMBER 4, 1942 Members and officials of the North Idaho Falls, Idaho Falls, and Yellowstone Stakes participated. Thewhich was a picture of the proposed centennial memorial campanile to be erected on Temple Square in Salt Lake City. "The Osgood Ward made nearly 200 handprinted programs for their celebration. The entire evening performance in this ward was very fine and well presented. "All Relief Society organizations in our stake participated in a centennial tree-planting service in their respective wards, using the centen-. Nial markers." On November 4, 1942, members and officials of the North Idaho Falls, Idaho Falls, and Yellowstone Stakes participated in a tree-planting ceremony at the new Idaho Falls Temple grounds. A beautiful blue spruce was planted on the northeast corner of the grounds, and a special marker was placed nearby. An excerpt from an account of this activity in the Idaho Falls Post-Register of November 12 states: The following program was presented: community singing conducted by Mrs. J. O. Mellor; invocation by Mrs. Grant M. Andrus; address of welcome by president Ethel Miles [North Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society president]; selection by a trumpet trio composed of Don Julian, Ray Bennett and Fred Haroldsen; a talk, "Special Thoughts on Trees," by Mrs. Joseph Brunt; dedicatory prayer by Joseph A. Brunt. Mr. Brunt, representing the North Idaho Falls Stake, J. W. Telford, representing the Idaho Falls Stake, and Horace A. Hess of the Yellowstone Stake,. Assisted in placing the soil on the tree. Mrs. Miles, President Cora Christensen of the Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society, past stake presidents, and honorary officers also participated NOTES FROM THE FIELD in the ceremonies. The program was under the direction -of Mrs. G. S. Evans, assisted by Robert F. Woller, temple gardener. Sister Evans stated in a subsequent letter of November 23 that, "We are very thankful to Brother Woller, the temple gardner, and Brother Irvin T. Nelson, Church landscape architect, for assisting us and granting us this privilege. We had had stormy weather for several days, but the morning [of November 4] was clear, although cold. The program was short but well attended by approximately 100 people, and everyone seemed thrilled with the occasion. After the ceremony, the members who wished to go were escorted through the temple. We surely felt that the efforts were worth while." Seattle Stake (Seattle, Washington) HE Bremerton Ward Relief Society reported its centennial birthday party, held March 17, 1942, as follows: "The ward chapel and recreation hall were decorated in the Relief Society colorsblue and gold. The opening feature of the celebration was a tree-planting ceremony, at which time we planted a tree on the chapel grounds. Appropriate remarks were made by Bishop John J. Fry, and the song "Trees was sung by Ruth Fry. "After this ceremony, everyone went into the chapel, where an impressive birthday cake held a place of attention, and a candle-lighting ceremony was given in honor of new members.. Our president, Chloe Later, presided, with Linda Eddington, second counselor, and Bertha 53 McCleary, coordinator, assisting her. Each new member of the past year was presented with a lovely corsage. "Another feature of the evening's entertainment was a cantata entitled 'Messengers of Mercy,' by Gladys Rich and Minnie D. Warner, presented by the Singing Mothers under the direction of Sarah Hickman, with Mercia Haneberg as accompanist. A very lovely pageant, 'The Guardianship of Life,' was presented under the direction of Rose Willey and President Chloe Later. It had a cast of about twenty people. Violet Nerden, soloist, was accompanied by Alta Larson. Thelma Higbee was the reader. "One feature of the program, the words of greeting by recording from President Heber J. Grant and President Amy Brown Lyman, was greatly appreciated. Ethelyn Lay and Chloe Stayner had charge of refreshments. 'The one hundred people present declared that the party was one of the loveliest ones of the year." Los Angeles Stake (Los Angeles, California) THE Beverly Hills Ward Relief Society, of which Estella C. Dalton was president, presented a unique centennial program using letters, tableaux, and a cantata to depict "Relief Society Beginnings" and "A Century of Achievement." Helen Cottam, secretary, reported the observance as follows: "Letters narrating 'Relief Society Beginnings' were written for the occasion by one of our members, Isabel Vine Broadbeck. They were tead by a reader dressed in a typical 1842 costume, who was shown writing them in her Nauvoo home. Be- tween the reading of each letter, our Relief Society chorus, assisted by Lola Brimley, director, Mary Rex, accompanist, and Jessie Turner, soloist, sang selections from the cantata 'Messengers of Mercy,' by Gladys Rich and Minnie D. Warner. In conjunction with the readings and the rendition of the cantata, tableaux in costume and with stage properties were, presented to show scenes related to the letters." An original poem, "A Century of Achievement," written by Alva Wilson, was given by two women, Emma Gardner representing Emma Smith, and Ruby Armstrong representing a modern Relief Society president. This was given just before the final tableau depicting "Women of Service in 1942." Estella C. Dalton, former president, is now president of the Los Angeles Stake Relief Society, and Frances Willardson is president of the Beverly Hills Ward. South Sanpete Stake (Manti, Utah) CLARICE B. TUTTLE, former president of the South Sanpete Stake Relief Society, submitted a newspaper report of the very successful centennial observance held by the three wards of Manti, and also a report from the three Ephraim wards. The Manti Messenger contained the following account of the Manti celebration: Sunday, Monday, and Tuesday [March 15, 16, 17, 1942] were gala days for the Relief Society organizations of Manti, culminating years of untiring and ceaseless effort directed toward building a bigger and better organization, an effort which has been crowned with glorious success. Officers and teachers have worked energetically to prepare the three-day celebration in honor of the centennial observance of the L. D. S. Relief Society. Their efforts resulted in one of Manti's most elaborate celebrations, enjoyed by old and young of the entire community. Commencing Sunday night, a cantata, "Resurrection Morning," written by B. Cecil Gates, was presented to the general public by the Singing Mothers of the three wards, under the direction of Cleo Christensen, with Mrs. Louise Hulme at the piano. Mrs. Bernice B. Keeler and Mrs. Leona F. Wintch were the readers. Before the cantata, Mrs. Clarice B. Tuttle... Gave a speech of welcome. A salute to the Relief Society was given by President Leland E. Anderson, the response by Mrs. Merle Poulson, president of the Center Ward Relief Society. Mrs. Viola Tatton was in charge of decorations. Monday afternoon a reception and program was held in the Center Ward Chapel, with so many in attendance that benches and chairs would not suffice. A fashion show depicting styles from 1842 to 1942 was directed by Mrs. Ruby K. Riddle.... Mrs. Alfreda Nielson was in charge of the music and refreshments. Monday night a married folks' dance was held in the Armada. It was one of the biggest dances of the year, and one of the most enjoyable. Many of the dancers came in costumes, which varied in kind and color from the humble overall to the dignified Prince Albert, and from the house dress of years gone by to the colorful gown of the gay nineties. Tuesday morning, a throng of people visited the temple, where the Singing Mothers furnished the music. Tuesday afternoon and evening in the Manti Theatre a pageant, "By Their Fruits Ye Shall Know Them," written by Moroni Smith of Richfield, was presented. Mrs. Ada Dyreng was in charge of the pageant, assisted by Mrs. Edna Allred and Mrs. Blanche Garbe. Taking part in the pageant were sixty people. Singing for the pageant was done by the Singing Mothers directed by Mrs. Cleo Christensen. The three-day Ephraim observance was also very successful. The first session was held Sunday evening, March 15, in the tabernacle, under the direction of Anna Rasmusson  NOTES FROM THE FIELD 35 FIRST EPISODE OF PAGEANT, "BY THEIR FRUITS YE SHALL KNOW THEM," MANTI WARDS, SOUTH SANPETE STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY Leona F, Wintch, Relief Society General Board member, is in front row, center, representing Emma Smith; on her right is Winston Crawford representing Joseph Smith e FOURTH EPISODE OF PAGEANT, "BY THEIR FRUITS YE SHALL KNOW THEM," INCLUDING SINGING MOTHERS WHO SANG FOR THE PAGEANT of the stake board. Seventy-five Singing Mothers wearing white blouses made an impressive sight when they sang "Resurrection Morning." They were assisted by Melba Armstrong, conductor, and Phylis Armstrong, accompanist. 'The stage setting was appropriate for the rendition of the cantata. The bishops of the Ephraim North, South and West Wards offered the prayers and also assisted backstage. Under the direction of Olivia Anderson of the stake board, general chairman, the activities on Monday afternoon featured a relic display, modeling of old hats and costumes of long ago, dancing of the minuet, and singing of old-time songs. "Sister-cake" with its cardamon flavor, peppermint candy, dried apples, and punch were served by ladies in costume. Tuesday, March 17, members from the Ephraim West Ward attended the morning session at the Manti Temple. In the afternoon, three inspirational episodes were enacted under the supervision of Vera Erickson of the stake board. They were: first, dramatization of the organization meeting of Relief Society; second, an episode emphasizing the importance of attendance at Relief Society, in which was dramatized the story of two young women who never 'found time to support Relief Society; and, third, a pantomime of nations coming through a membership arch. After this episode, candles on a centennial cake were lighted. This cake was made of seven pounds of popcorn. According to the report from the Ephraim wards, the costs incurred in conducting this three-day celebration were very low. Anna Rasmusson is now president of the South Sanpete Stake. CENTENNIAL CANDLE-LIGHTING CEREMONY Brigham City Third Ward Relief Society, Box Elder Stake  DEPARTMENT Sheology and Sestimony "Articles of Faith," By James E. Talmage Lesson 15 The Book of Mormon (Continued) Article 8: "... We also believe the Book of Mormon to be the word of God." (Tuesday, April 6, 1943) Condensation of Chapter XV of Articles of Faith by Talmage (This condensation is placed in the Magazine in the hope that it will result in more class members familiarizing themselves with the lesson.) The Authenticity of the Book of Mormon The authenticity of the Book of Mormon constitutes our most important consideration of the work. Announcing to the. World the message of a departed people, written by way of commandment, and by the spirit of prophecy and revelation, this book is entitled to the most thorough and impartial examination. The Latter-day Saints base their belief in the authenticity of the book on the following proofs which will be discussed: 1. The Nephite and the Jewish scriptures are found to agree in matters of tradition, history, doctrine, and prophecy which the separate records treat. In a careful comparison of the prophecies of the Bible with corresponding predictions contained in the Book of Mormon, each of the records is corroborative of the other. 2. Ancient prophecy has been literally fulfilled in the coming forth of the Book of Mormon. Enoch (Pearl of Great Price, Moses 7:59- 62), David (Psalms 85:11), Isaiah (Isaiah 45:8), and Ezekiel (Ezekiel 37), as well as other prophets knew and prophecied of the book. Ezekiel 37:15-17, reads: "The word of the Lord came unto me, saying, Moreover, thou son of man, take thee one stick, and write upon it, For Judah, and for the children of Israel his companions [signifying the Bible]: then take another stick, and write upon it, For Joseph, the stick of Ephraim, and for all the house of Israel his companions [signifying the Book of Mormon]: And join them one to another into one stick; and they shall become one in thine hand." 3. The internal consistency of the Book of Mormon sustains belief in Page 57 its divine origin. The parts bear evidence of having been written at different times and under widely varying conditions. The book maintains consistency throughout; no contradictions, no disagreements have been pointed out. 4. Among the most conclusive proofs of the authenticity of the book is that furnished by the demonstrated truth of its contained prophecies. The predictions contained within the Book of Mormon may be classed as (a) prophecies relating to the time covered by the book itself, the fulfillment of which is recorded therein; and (b) prophecies relative to times beyond the limits of the history chronicled in the book. Prophecies of the first class named are of minor value as proof of the authenticity of the work; nevertheless, to the conscientious reader the genuineness of the book will be made apparent in the literal realization of the numerous and varied predictions relating to the fate, then future, of the people whose history is given in the record. Prophecies of the second class are numerous and explicit. Many of them have special reference to this last dispensationthe Dispensation of the Fullness of Times. Among the most remarkable Book of Mormon predictions incident to the last dispensation are those that relate to its own coming forth and the effect of its publication amongst mankind. Joseph's great prophetic utterance is to be found in part in II Nephi 3:11-13. The literal fulfillment of this prophecy in the bringing forth of the Book of Mormon through Joseph Smith is well evidenced. That the new scriptures would be rejected by the Gentiles was known by Nephi, who recorded this: "A Bible! A Bible! We have got a Bible, and there cannot be any more Bible." (II Nephi 29:3; read the entire chapter.) 5. The archeology and ethnology of the Western Continent contribute some corroborative evidence in support of the Book of Mormon. Among the most significant of the discoveries respecting the aboriginal inhabitants of the land, are the following: (a) that America was peopled in very ancient times, probably soon after the building of the Tower of Babel; (b) that the continent has been successfully occupied by different peoples, at least by two classes, or so-called races, at widely separated periods; (c) that the aboriginal inhabitants came from the East, probably from Asia, and that the latter occupants, or those of the second period, were closely allied to, if not identified with, the Israelites; (d) that the existing native races of America form a common stock. It is very apparent that each of these discoveries is fully sustained by the Book of Mormon record. Let not the reader of the Book of Mormon content himself with such evidences as have been cited concerning the authenticity of this reputed scripture. There is promised a surer and more effectual means of ascertaining the truth or falsity of this volume. Like other scriptures, the Book of Mormon is to be comprehended through the spirit of the scripture, and this is obtainable only as a gift from God. But this gift is promised unto all who shall seek it. Then to all let us commend the counsel of the last writer in the volume, Moroni, solitary scribe who
sealed the book: "And when ye shall receive these things, I would exhort you that ye would ask God, the Eternal Father, in the name of Christ, if these things are not true; and if ye shall ask with a sincere heart, with
59
real intent, having faith in Christ, he will manifest the truth of it unto you, by the power of the Holy Ghost. And by the power of the Holy Ghost ye may know the truth of all things." (Moroni 10:4-5)
LESSON PLAN
Lesson Aim: To prove the authenticity of the Book of Mormon
Suggested Material Outline
I. Proofs of the authenticity of the Book of Mormon A. Agreement of the Bible and the Book of Mormon
1. Records agree in matters of tradition, history, doctrine and prophecy (See Appendix 14:5) B. Prophecies concerning the Book of Mormon
2. Ezekiel's vision most significant (Ezekiel 37)
3. Isaiah's prediction literally fulfilled (Isaiah 29:11-12) C. Internal construction of the Book of Mormon This concerns the doctrinal unity of the book, its consistency of language, its general harmony and Joseph Smith's inability to compose such a work without divine help. D. Book of Mormon predictions
4. Prophecies fulfilled in the Book of Mormon
5. Future prophecies not yet fulfilled (See II Nephi 3:11-13; II Nephi 29 E. Archaeology of the Western Continent
6. Value of external evidence Sometimes we are inclined to lay too much stress on external evidence, as if it were conclusive, whereas it only shows a tendency in the direction of the truth of personal testimony.
7. Evidence of American antiquities a. Civilization here before discovery of America by Columbus b. This civilization comparable to that which existed in the Old World c. Monuments are found where Book of Mormon requires them to be d. Evidences of successive civilizations in ancient America F. The classes of American aborigines (1.) Archaic (2.) Toltec-Mayan (3.) Aztec
Suggested Method Outline
I. It is suggested that class members who are capable and who do research well, be assigned, at least a month in advance of presentation, the five major sections of this lesson outline. In making such assignments, it is suggested that the class leader bear in mind the following procedure: A. Enough time should be spent with the class member assigned the task to make the assignment very clear. If necessary, the assignment should be written out by the class leader, and then the member should be given time to ask questions concerning her assignment. B. Class leaders should make the time limit explicit. This is very important if the lesson is fully covered in the time allotted. C. Class leaders should be responsible for seeing that material for use in the preparation of assignments is available. D. Some follow-through on the assignment should be made by the class leader to check on the progress of each assignment, and this should be done before the actual day of presentation. II. Class leaders should allow themselves time to summarize the major points of the lesson in order to make a unified whole and to increase learning. Part of this summary could be gathered from the class by skillful questioning. (Consult any book on teaching methods for help on how to formulate questions. If a blackboard is available, it would be helpful to list thereon the major points covered in the lesson.)
References Roberts, B. H., A Comprehensive History of the Church, Vol. I. Talmage, James E., Sunday Night Talks. Thompson, E. H., People of the Serpent. Talmage, James E., Articles of Faith, "Appendix" 15, Notes Relating to Chap. 15
Visiting Teachers Messages to the Home
Lesson 7 Care of the Body as an Expression of Faith (Tuesday, April 6, 1943)
LATTER-DAY SAINTS attach great importance to the proper care of the body. No one can attain his highest usefulness, happiness, or intelligence, who injures his body by improper living. In the Doctrine and Covenants there are many revelations regarding the human body and its importance as an instrument of the mind. "The spirit and the body," we are informed, "are the soul of man." (Section 88:15) And in another place we read that the spirit manifests itself through the body. Therefore, the physical condition of the body either facilitates or hampers expression of the spirit. Such things as food, clothing, proper housing and living conditions
are "given to strengthen the body and enliven the soul." (Doctrine and Covenants 59:19) Section 88:124 gives instructions for the maintenance of the body. "Cease to be idle; cease to be unclean;... Cease to sleep longer than is needful; retire to thy bed early, that ye may not be weary; arise early, that your bodies and your minds may be invigorated." Then there is the Word of Wisdom (Section 89), which offers specific instructions: tobacco, "strong or hot drinks," excessive meat eating are "not good for man;" while fruit in the season thereof is good for the use of man, and wheat is specially "for man." Obedience to these teachings is attended by certain blessings. There are also revelations in the Doctrine and Covenants which indicate that the care of the body is a religious duty. The attitude of the mind and the emotions one cultivates have an effect on the health of the body. This fact was enunciated by Jesus and it
*Discourses of Brigham Young, page 283, makes clear that President Brigham Young regarded tea and coffee among the hot drinks referred to in Doctrine and Covenants, Section 89.
61
finds ample justification, if any is needed, in what we know from the study of the body. Christ assures us that fear, anger, hate, with kindred emotions, are a source of injury. He puts it theologically: "Thou shalt not be angry with thy brother." But science gives us the reason. Says Herbert Spencer, in his Data of Ethics: "From biology we learn that no act should be committed or thought entertained which weakens the body, for thereby the human being is rendered unfit for the duties of life." Obedience to the laws of health, both those revealed through religion and those discovered by man in his search for truth, express our faith in the teachings of the Church so far as concerns the sanctity of the body.
Discussion
1. What should be the attitude of all citizens toward community health?
2. In what ways can women cooperate with the civil authorities in maintaining healthy conditions in the community?
3. Discuss Doctrine and Covenants 88:124, with regard to proper rest; also Gospel Doctrine by Joseph F. Smith, page 461.
4. What are the physical effects of fear, anger, hate?
5. What are the blessings promised those who obey the Word of Wisdom?
Work-and-Business New-fashioned Thrift
Lesson 6 Clean Things Last Longer (For optional use on Tuesday, March 9, 1943)
NOT only is "cleanliness next to Godliness," but it is also economical. It is easier to keep clean than to make clean. Dirt wears things out, whether they be fabric, wood, plaster, leather, or fur. Good materials are entitled to good care. Waiting until they are very dirty before cleaning them means added rubbing and scrubbing that wears things out as much as does the dirt that is ground into them in the first place. While it is necessary to keep things clean to conserve them, it is also necessary in cleaning them to use the process best suited to the material or fabric involved. Some fabrics take kindly to mild soap and water, while others require dry-cleaning agents. The difficulty today is in knowing the material with which one is dealing. Rayon, the versatile fiber, is woven into a variety of fabrics; and since these fabrics are so extensively used, it is important to have a knowledge of their care. Some rayon fibers lose their strength when wet; others are dissolved when cleaning agents are used; and some are melted by the use of too much heat. The cleaning of any material containing rayon fiber depends on the nature of the weave as much as the fiber itself. Rough or creped surfaces should usually be dry cleaned. If material can be washed, the kind of soap, the temperature of the water used, the handling while wet, and the length of time given for drying are important items to remember. All fabrics of rayon, silk, and wool, whether used for clothing, upholstering, curtains, draperies, or rugs, require a mild soap, luke-warm water, little handling with no harsh rubbing or wringing. A long time is required for properly drying all of these fabrics except pure silk, which dries quickly. The amount of soap required will depend upon the harshness of the water, and whether or not a softening agent is used. Trisodium phosphate is a good detergent. Sheer fabrics when washed should be rolled in a soft absorbent cloth, such as a turkish towel, to absorb the excessive moisture, and they should be ironed with a warm iron while damp. Some fabrics, because of fineness, construction, or color, respond best to dry cleaning, and if done at home, extreme care should be taken in the handling of articles and in the selection of the cleaning agent to be used. Whether laundering or dry-cleaning method is used, stains should be removed from the article before the whole article is cleaned. The proper time to remove stain is when it is fresh. Air, heat, and water may change the character of the stain and make it difficult to remove, if it can be removed at all. It is much easier to remove a stain without injury to the fabric if the kind of stain is known. Most ordinary stains on tub-fast, washable materials, such as cotton or linen, can be removed with warm water; or in case of fruit stain, boiling water poured from a height. Stubborn stains, like ink, require special treatment.* Clothing and fabric articles that can be handled easily should be brushed often and regularly. Dust and dirt work into the meshes of the weave and cut the threads. The best time to brush clothing is immediately after wearing. Underwear and stockings should be washed often; fibers deteriorate with perspiration and body acids. In most homes, rugs and upholstery usually get a bigger share of the wear than other articles. To avoid some of this wear, they should have a quick daily cleaning, rather than to allow dust and dirt to work into the pile. A more thorough cleaning should be given weekly. The best cleaning implements to use are a vacuum cleaner and a carpet sweeper. Sweeping with a broom, especially against the pile, will further embed the dirt, and may tear or damage the soft, wool nap. Greasy spots and soil cause dirt to stick, which, in turn, dulls the colors. A good nonflammable cleansing fluid will brighten colors and remove spots. Some kinds of rugs and upholstery can be shampooed with safety if a thick jelly-like suds is made of neutral soap and applied with a brush using a circular motion. The lather should be scraped off with a dull broad knife, and then wiped off with a damp, clean cloth wrung out of clean warm water. This process should be repeated as many times as is necessary to remove all soap and soil. As little water as possible should be used. Articles should be allowed to dry thoroughly before being used. A thorough cleaning occasionally by an expert will prolong the life of such furnishings. Hard shaking of small rugs breaks the backing and unravels the ends or fringe. A rug laid on a smooth surface or over a pad not only wears longer but is easier to keep clean. If slip covers are used, they should be removed often enough for cleanliness and to make sure that moths do not lurk beneath them to feast on the precious fabrics of the davenport or chairs. Tablecloths, luncheon cloths, and
*See America's Housekeeping Book, Chapter 25, p. 323.
napkins are made of various kinds of fabrics, such as cotton, linen, rayon, silk, and Cellophane. Linen and cotton, if white, can stand hot water; if colored, warm water should be used in washing. They should be washed quickly, rinsed thoroughly and, if white, dried in sun; if colored, they should be dried in the shade. Grass linen is stiff and should be handled carefully so as not to break the threads. Cotton and linen require a hotter iron in pressing than do other fabrics. Mats made entirely of Cellophane only need to be wiped with a damp cloth to clean. A bit of starch in the rinsing water will give cotton a gloss when ironed and keep it clean longer. Never use starch for other materials, especially linen. If ironed linens are rolled on a pasteboard or paper roll rather than folded, they keep fresh, clean, and wear longer. The folds in larger cloths should be changed occasionally to prevent wear along the line of the fold. Bedding should have its share of care. A clean, soft, but firm mattress, fluffy clean blankets, and clean sheets are inviting and help one to rest well. Soiled bedding is not nearly so warm as clean bedding. Regular airing and sunning of the mattress will keep it fluffy. A mattress should have a cover that fits snugly and that can be removed for washing. The rules for washing table linen apply also to bed linen. Over-washing of woolen blankets mats the
63
nap and causes harshness and shrinkage. Blankets will be fluffy and soft if dried out-of-doors on a mild, breezy day. Sheets hung straight and smooth on the line, dried, and then carefully removed and folded, need
64
not be ironed other than to press the hems. Occasionally the wood of furniture needs a thorough cleaning with thick soap suds to remove the grime and smoke that collect and dull the beautiful surfaces. In modern heated homes, furniture gets too dry, which sometimes causes it to crack and come apart. If washed carefully, a small part at a time, without much water, wiped thoroughly dry with a soft cloth, and polished with a good furniture polish rubbed with the grain of the wood, the wood of most furniture will look like new, and the little bit of water used will help restore the moisture drawn out by overheated houses. Floors often become loose and squeak from the same cause. Floor surfaces should be kept clean, and the finish, whether oil, wax, paint, or varnish, should be well applied. This prevents the floor from wearing, whether it be wood, linoleum or tile, and is particularly important where floors receive great
wear. Too frequent and too generous use of soap and water has a tendency to deteriorate rather than preserve some finishes. Each kind should have its own treatment. Paste, liquid or self-polishing wax are sometimes used too generously. When there is an accumulation of this wax, it should be removed; the floor should be thoroughly cleaned and new wax applied. Painted walls may be cleaned with a mild soap and water, or a water softener or solvent and water. They should be wiped well after washing. Long even strokes should be used when wallpaper and calcimine are cleaned with the dough-like preparations now on the market. Rubbing back and forth makes streaks and embeds the dirt in the paper. The main point to remember in cleaning all materials and articles is that they should not become too soiled.
NOTE: America's Housekeeping Book, sections one, two, and three, pp. 131-335, contains a wealth of material on this subject.