Point Rationing
Note: The following information from Justin C. Stewart, Utah State Information Officer, Office of Price Administration, is of interest to Relief Society women:
WITH the introduction of "point rationing" early in 1943, consumers must learn to shop with a new kind of currencyration points. This will not take the place of our accustomed money and tax tokens, but will be in addition to them. When buying, the housewife must know the ration point value of each commodity as well as the money value. Point rationing will be accomplished through the use of War Ration Book No. 2 which will be issued to all consumers shortly after the first of the year. It will be used to ration groups of related or similar commodities which can be substituted for one another in actual use. It will not replace the straight coupon system for such goods as sugar, because that system is more appropriate for standardized commodities used by everyone and of which there is a large enough supply to give everyone a usable share. Cereals might be used as an example of how point rationing will work, although there is no present plan to ration them. Oatmeal, cornflakes, wheatflakes, and branflakes are related commodities which can be substituted for one another in the daily diet. Suppose that there were a shortage of branflakes and the Government was to try to ration them as it rations sugarthat is, an equal amount for everyone each month. Because of the shortage, and because branflakes would thus be allotted to people who don't buy them regularly at all, the result would be a very small share for each individual, just
Page 46
a few ounces a month, too little to do anyone any good. This also might mean a buying rush on cornflakes by those who usually buy larger amounts of branflakes than would be allowed by the ration. Or it might mean a rush to buy oatmeal or wheatflakes, and thus the supply of these cereals might quickly disappear from the stores, and many people wouldn't get any cereals at all. This illustrates that while dividing the supply of any one of the cereals would give each individual only a small equal share, dividing the total supply of all of them would give each individual enough for his basic cereal needs. If we were rationing cereals under the point system, all types could be purchased by using the same ration coupons. However, each kind of cereal would be given a point value. A low-point value would be given to the more plentiful items and a high-point value to the less plentiful ones. Each person would then be allowed, for example, 48 points to buy cereal during the month. Suppose cornflakes are plentiful and are assigned a value of one point per pound; the supply of wheatflakes is a little less plentiful and is assigned two points per pound; and branflakes very scarce, hardly available at all, are assigned eight points per pound. In this example, the individual could buy two pounds of cornflakes and surrender only two of his 48 ration points. On the other hand, if he purchased two pounds of branflakes, he would have to surrender 16 of the 48. Thus consumers will be discouraged from buying the high-point value commodities that are scarce and will be encouraged to buy the low-point value commodities of which there are large supplies. The Government will be able to change the point value from time to time according to the supply of the various commodities, thus insuring the fairest possible distribution of goods. Ration Book No. 2 will have stamps of two colors, blue and red. One color might be used for meat. The other color for some other group or related commodities, such as cereals. Each stamp will have a letter of the alphabet marked on it"A" through "Z." These letters will be used to indicate the time in which the stamps should be used. There will be four "A" stamps, four "B" stamps, four "C" stamps, etc. One of the "A" stamps will be marked with the figure 1; one of them, the figure 2; one, 5; and one, 8. The numbers will indicate the point value of the stamps. Thus the four "A" stamps, which will be numbered 1, 2, 5, 8, will have a total point value of 16; the four "B" stamps a total point value of 16; the four "C" stamps a total point value of 16, etc. Suppose the A, B, and C stamps are allowed for the first month of cereal rationing. We should have a total point value of 16 "A" stamps, 16 "B" stamps, 16 "C" stamps, a grand total of ration points for the month of 48. The following month, stamps marked D, E, and F might be used, thus giving a 48 point ration for the second month. In this way, each consumer may "spend" his points to buy any of the items in the point ration group in any way he likes, but when he has "spent" all of his points for the month, he will not be able to buy any of these items until the next ration period. Those who choose to buy commodities having a low-point value will get more for their ration than those who choose to use up their points on high-point value commodities. When buying, therefore, consumers must ask themselves not only whether they can afford the dollars and cents price of rationed commodities, but also whether they can afford to "spend" their points in that particular way. This will require careful budgeting of both money and ration points. At the same time, planning must not be too rigid. There is no possibility in wartime of guaranteeing that the storekeeper will have all of the favorite standbys on hand at all times. There may be a smaller supply than usual or a larger demand than was expected. It may be found that some of the favorite items in a group are not "best buys" in ration value. In that case, in order to get the most out of her family's point allotment, the housewife will find it desirable at times to buy "second choices."
THE SUCCESSFUL WAY
Doing an injury puts you below your enemy; revenging one makes you but even with him; forgiving it sets you above him.Benjamin Franklin.
FROM THE FIELD
Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer
Regulations governing the submittal of material for "