All That Glitters." The second prize of $20 is awarded to Blanche Kendall McKey, 2821 Porter Ave., Ogden, Utah, for her story "Silent Strings." The third prize of $15 is awarded to Mary Ek Knowles, 1025 Darling St., Ogden, Utah, for her story "The Gold Watch." This short story contest, first conducted by the Relief Society General Board in 1941 as a feature of the centennial observance, was made an annual contest in 1942 inasmuch as the centennial short story contest had been so enthusiastically received and inasmuch as sponsorship of story writing is of equal importance to that of poetry writing in which the Board conducts a contest annually. The contest is open only to Latter-day Saint women who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication by the editor of a publication of recognized merit. The three prize-winning stories are to be published consecutively in the first three issues of the Magazine for 1943. Prize-winning stories become the property of the General Board and may not be published by others except by written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other stories entered in the contest, paying for them at the regular Magazine rate at the time of
Page 16
publication. A writer who has received first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. Twenty-one manuscripts were submitted in the contest for 1942. While some of these failed to qualify as short stories, being sketches rather than short stories, and while others showed a lack of consistency between incidents related in the story and the time and setting of the story, all work entered in the contest revealed writing ability. The General Board congratulates the prize-winning contestants and expresses appreciation to all whose work was entered in the contest. The number of manuscripts and the type of work submitted during the first two years of the short story contest are very encouraging and indicate that, like the Eliza R. Snow poem contest, the short story contest will become one of the important activities sponsored by the General Board, and through this activity high quality fiction-writing among Latter-day Saint women will be stimulated. The General Board sincerely thanks the five judges for their careful consideration of the stories and for the excellence of their judgment in selecting the prize winners. The services of the General Board's short story contest committee are also greatly appreciated. Stories, together with photographs of the award-winning contestants, will appear in theas follows: January, 1943, "All That Glitters," by Norma Wrathall; February 1943, "Silent Strings," by Blanche Kendall McKey; March 1943, "The Gold Watch," by Mary Ek Knowles.
All That Glitters Norma Wrathall First Prize Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest
"WANTED: At once. Women between ages 18 and 40 to work in war plant cafeteria. Wages, $80 per month. Transportation and one meal furnished. Apply at..." The newspaper slid from Emily Merrill's hand: "Wanted... $80 per month...." Her eyes sought out the worn linoleum, the scuffed chairs, the kitchen curtains, which in spite of frequent laundering refused to stay crisp. She looked down at her thin red hands, idle for once in her lap. How long had it been since she had had money to buy anything she really wanted? Somehow it had taken all they could scrape from the farm to meet expenses and make payments on the mortgage. She sighed. Of course, Jack was working at the plant himself, but he said that every cent they didn't have to use on absolute necessities must go on the debt, now was his chance to "get out from under" as he put it. Well, all the more reason she should earn a little. She folded the ad page and put it carefully in the cupboard drawer. Why it was wonderful, that's what it was; it was her golden opportunity. She hummed a tune as she prepared the evening meal. By the time the family was assembled around the supper table, a definite plan had taken form in her mind, but she waited until Jack had finished eating before she said anything. "Never try to convince a man whose stomach is empty," her grand-
NORMA WRATHALL
mother had always said. Besides, Jack always read the paper at the meal table. At last he finished his dessert and put down the paper. Emily drew a deep breath, pushed her hair back of her ears, and began. "I don't like it," Jack pronounced emphatically, as she paused for another breath. "I don't want my wife running around in any workman's cafeteria, waiting on a lot of foreigners and...." Emily was prepared for opposition, but before she could say anything more, sixteen-year-old Etta inter-
17
Page 17
18
rupted: "Don't be so old-fashioned, Dad. All the women are working nowadays. A woman's place isn't just in the home any more, you know." He drew his brows together at her condescending tone. This red-headed daughter of his certainly needed her come-uppance for a change. Emily rose hastily to pour oil on the troubled waters. How alike they were, ready to flare at the drop of a match, her sandy-haired husband with his threatening brows, and the girl with her head on one side, staring back at him from under impudently lowered eyelids. "Of course, Etta, a mother's first duty is to her family," Emily said quietly, "but I'm sure I can manage home and job too, right now; the twins are getting older, and you can help with the housework." She was a quiet-mannered woman, with dark hair and soft brown eyes which belied the inner strength her husband had been heard to call stubbornness. By the time she had finished packing his lunch box, with Etta safely out of the way on an errand at the drug store, she had won his consent to her plan. The children were in school all day, and by carefully planning her work, she thought she could manage it. She would arrange for the nine-year-old twins, Billy and Betty, to stay after school with Great-aunt Bessie, a childless widow who had always been fond of them. And Etta could take care of herself, and do a good share of the housework. Emily's agile mind swept on to the systematic planning of her day's work: the breakfast to be cooked early, and served to the children later by Etta; the lunches for the entire
family to be prepared the night before; a hot, cooked dinner in the evening after she came home from work. She could do the washing and ironing and clean the house on her day off. Really, it all seemed so simple. Even Aunt Bessie's lack of enthusiasm failed to dampen her spirits. "It would be different if you had to work, Emily," Aunt Bessie said. "If that were the case, I'd move right in and help you, if necessary. But I should think that with Jack working.... Well," she sighed, "all I hope is that I don't have one of my headaches on the days the children are here." She shook her head dolefully and went on, as Emily thought, "making mountains from molehills."
EMILY would never forget the day she brought home her first pay check. She sat down and kicked off her shoes to ease her burning feet while she tore open the envelope. Let's seenew linoleum should be the first thing to buy, and some crisp new curtains. And she did want to make a down payment on bed divan for the living room. That old couch was such an eyesore. Her pleasant reverie was broken as the screen door banged, and the twins came bouncing into the room. "Hi there, mom," cried Billy, "Isn't supper ready yet? Gee whiz, am I starved!" Billy was always hungry. He grabbed a piece of baker's bread from the box and stuffed it into his mouth. "Not so much slang, dear. Yes, I'll have it ready in a few minutes." Little needles shot up the backs of her legs as she bent her energy to the task. Goodness, it was getting late. "Say, mom," called Betty from the bathroom, where she was washing her hands, "Aunt Bessie said to tell
ALL THAT GLITTERS
you, of course we're welcome to stay there, but Billy'd have to do better. Know what he did?" She pointed an accusing soapy finger. "He put two toads in Aunt Bessie's goldfish bowlright in with the fish. 'Magine!" Betty set her lips self-righteously. "Yah, an' what if I did, ole Miss Smarty! And mom, know what she did?" Billy's voice was loud with scorn. "Kept coming in the house with her roller-skates onright on the linoleum Aunt Bessie'd just waxed. She said...." "Oh, children, stop it. Mother's too tired tonight. And Billy, get the broom and sweep up all that mud you dragged in. Betty, help mother set the table. And put away your school things. Oh, dear, Etta's not home from school yet, and it's nearly six." Her voice rose in strident irritation. She found herself wondering, a little grimly, if Aunt Bessie still could be heard to wish piously that the Almighty had seen fit to bless her with a family. They were half way through supper by the time Etta came in, tossing her sweater over a chair. Emily looked fondly at her daughter whose red-gold hair framed a piquant face with dancing brown eyes. Etta went at once to the kitchen mirror and began a careful inspection of her complexion. "Where've you been, Etta?" asked her father, abruptly emerging from his newspaper. "Over to Meryl's," answered Etta, patting her curls. "I ate supper over there." "You're supposed to be home when your mother comes. You should help out a little. And who is Meryl?" "We were practicing a song and
19
dance act for assembly. Meryl's so talented." She turned around, executing a dance step. "Meryl Sisom. You know, Mother." "Some new people who just moved into town. They live over in the old Jacobs' home," explained Emily. Jack grunted. "Humph. Well, you see that you bring Meryl or whoever she is over here to practice so you can help a little. And that's final!" He brought his fist down on the table with a bang. "Oh, all right," Etta pouted. "Mr. Sisom makes simply scads of money," she went on, with a side glance at her father. "Meryl has awfully smart clothes. She's getting a new chubby fur jacket. Wish I could," she sighed volubly. Jack paddled off to the living room in his stocking feet to finish his nap, muttering that the money some people were spending was ridiculous, and Emily began clearing the table. "Maybe we can manage the jacket later on," she said to Etta who was helping. "Now hurry, dear, you'll be late for Mutual. It's Tuesday night, you know." "Oh, I'm not going tonight," replied Etta, "Meryl doesn't want to join. She says the things they do at Mutual are childish."
AS the weeks hurried on and the tag ends of work from even Emily's careful planning began to pile up, she tried to grow accustomed to the lint which accumulated under the beds from her one "free day" a week to the next. She trained herself not to notice the pile of mending which grew steadily higher on the sewing machine, or the ironing which hung perennially on the clothes' rack. But by the time the short cold days of winter had set in, she began to worry about Betty's frequent colds. Emily knew that Aunt Bessie, really the soul of kindness, nevertheless must have her house neat, and that often the twins played out-of-doors late on chilly afternoons with sweaters unbuttoned and caps left carelessly in the house. She tried to console herself with the knowledge that, as she always worked day shift, she was at home evenings to see that the children went to bed on time, with colds doctored if necessary. Somehow, she had ceased to talk over family troubles with her husband. By the time she had finished her almost endless evening tasks, he was usually asleep in his chair; or, if he was working night shift, he had to leave for work soon after she came home. And, like herself, he seemed too tired for much conversation. The few words they had for each other were merely moments snatched from seemingly more essential things. She would have liked to talk to him about the sealed note addressed to her which fell from Bill's overall pocket one night as she was hanging up the children's clothes. "Mrs. Merrill," it began, "if possible, will you please see that Billy gets some extra drill on his 'times tables' each evening? Otherwise, I may have to put him in a slower group. Your cooperation will be greatly..." and signed with the teacher's name. A guilty flush spread over Emily's face. The afternoons and evenings of over half the season had slipped away, and Billy had gone joyfully on, his "times tables" cards, sent home earlier in the year, reposing in the cupboard drawer. It was only a few days later that the foreman, Mr. Walters, told Emily that she would have to work night shift for several weeks; he was short of experienced women for the night work. "It will mean that you'll have to see to getting the twins to bed," she told Etta, as they prepared supper. "Your father is on the afternoon shift, and I have to leave right after supper." Etta didn't reply at first, but went on setting the table. "I've a chance to work evenings and Saturdays down at El Dansante Cafe, waiting on tables," she began at last. "Oh, but Etta," Emily's voice lifted in quick concern. "I don't want you to work down there. It'll be too hard on you. Anyway, I need you here at home." She forced her lips to smile. Etta glanced curiously at her mother; and the older woman realized, with a pang, that her daughter suddenly seemed grown-up, an adult who faced her with alien eyes. "But Mother," replied Etta, "you don't stay home. Why should I?" In the end, Etta won her parents' grudging consent to take the job; the hours wouldn't be long, and the proprietor promised to see that the girls got home safely. Emily prevailed upon Aunt Bessie to keep the twins at night, and for a while everything seemed to go smoothly again. Emily couldn't remember, later, just when she first began to notice a change in Etta. It may have been the morning Jack told her that their daughter was staying at El Dansante to dance long after her work was finished. "I've spoken to her about it. But I'm to go on night shift myself, now, so you'd better remind her to get home early," he warned Emily. One afternoon, she was roused by

ALL THAT GLITTERS
the sound of Etta's and Meryl's voices in the kitchen. She glanced at the clock. Only two-thirty; they should still be in school. She frowned as she slid her feet into slippers and pulled her robe around her shoulders. It was hard enough to get a little rest, what with the essential housework lasting most of the forenoon. "How is it you two aren't in class?" she asked, opening the kitchen door. "Oh, we... That is, I... Got a call to go to work a little earlier," answered Etta lamely. "But Etta, you shouldn't miss school for any other work." Emily tried to keep the panic out of her voice. She realized, without knowing why, that this had happened before. "Oh, Mother, don't be silly." Etta's young face flushed with embarrassment. She glanced at her friend, who was watching with a little amused smile. "Well, let's not have it happen again." Emily turned back to the bedroom, suddenly conscious of her tousled hair and crumpled robe under Meryl's cool appraising eyes. Funny she'd never noticed before what a bold look the girl had, with frankly darkened lashes and too bright lipstick. It was later that same afternoon that she found Meryl's compact on the kitchen table. Only, as it sprang open in her hand, it contained not rouge and powder, but cigarettes. Etta, questioned about the matter, replied sulkily that she didn't know if Meryl smoked; it wasn't any of her business anyway, was it? The incident was crowded back in Emily's mind by the endless tide of work that pushed her on.
21
Then one Friday morning Emily was searching for her coat, getting ready to go home. She hummed a tune, thinking of what Mr. Walters, the foreman, had said as she left her work. "It's time for you to change back to day shift again Sunday, Mrs. Merrill. You've done so well, I want you to supervise the women workers. Only thing, you may be 'frozen' to your job for the duration, and you'll have to take your turn at the night shift. But it'll mean an increase in pay. Let me know when you come back Sunday." Preoccupied, she was at first unaware of what the women on the other side of the rack were saying. "...Well, if Etta were my daughter, I'd never let her run around with that Meryl Sisom." "...Humph. I guess she's just as bad as the rest. Out all hours of the night. The whole crowd smoking and drinking, so I hear." The door banged after the women. Emily stood clutching her coat, their words still ringing in her ears. Of course, it wasn't true! It couldn't be. Not Etta. Then she remembered the cigarette case. The ride home in the crowded bus seemed endless. She found Jack in the kitchen, gloomily cooking his breakfast. Emily sat down by the table and pushed back the stale dishes from last night's supper. If only she could stop shaking while she told him. He said nothing at first, and Emily thought that, oddly, he didn't seem surprised. "Well, Emily," he said gravely at last, "I don't know as I blame you for trying to earn a little extra. Heaven knows you deserve it, after all your years of going without. But this old 'home ship' of ours needs a pilot at the helm. Go into the living room." "Go into... But what...?" "Just go on in. You'll see." He pushed back his chair and followed her. For the rest of her life Emily would remember the scenethe early light mottling the rug, the fur jacket flung carelessly on a chair, and on the new divan, the girl lying asleep, still fully clothed, her bright hair spilling over the dark cushions. Emily opened her mouth, but no words came. Her feet were like lead as she walked across the room and bent down. She hadn't known how her knees were trembling until they gave way and she sank down on the edge of the divan. "Oh, Jack, Jack!" she sobbed, "she isn't... That is, I thought...." "No, she isn't drunk," said Jack bluntly, "just given out from dancing at that fool place where she works. [ put-my coat over her when I came in from work. Now, don't cry, Emily, she's all right  so far, at least." He put his arm around her shoulders, and in an instant the aloofness of the past months vanished in their common bond of concern. Then the rough gentleness in his voice gave way to sudden anger. "But I won't have it. This is the end. No daughter of mine...." Etta sat up, rubbing her eyes. "Gee, what's the matter? Say, I didn't intend to stay here all night." "All night!" Her father's voice exploded like a storm. "Don't worry, daughter. You haven't been here all night! Now just you listen to me." His angry words beat upon Etta's bowed head. But Emily, still dabbing at her eyes with her wadded handkerchief, had made up her mind at last. She had gone to the hall phone and dialed a number. "Hello, is this... Oh, all right. Just give Mr. Walters a message for me, please. Tell him that Mrs. Emily Merrill will not be at work... Any more." >