Work-and-Business Meeting: All Relief Societies in war risk areas, and all others desiring to do so, are requested to conduct a demonstration of the articles recommended for the family first-aid kit. This demonstration is scheduled for the February work-and-business meeting, unless otherwise announced, and where possible is to be conducted by an individual acquainted with first-aid practices who will explain the use of the various articles and demonstrate the making of triangular bandages and splints, so that these articles can be made in Relief Society work meeting (or in the home) and added to the family first-aid kit along with articles which are purchased.
Relief Society Home-Nursing Supply Chest: The General Board recommends that every ward Relief Society wherever located arrange to accumulate a supply of articles ordinarily needed for home nursing in case of sickness or disability, such articles to be either rented or loaned according to circumstances of families using the supply. Believing that many families have such articles which are not in use and which they would be willing to give or lend to Relief Society supply chests, particularly at the present time when some articles cannot be procured by purchase, a survey form accompanies the leaflet to be distributed by visiting teachers in February upon which families may specify such articles as they would be willing to give or lend to such a home-nursing supply chest.
Adequate Bedding for All L. D. S. Families: During the past few years, many stake and ward Relief Societies, at the suggestion of their respective Church Welfare Committees, have conducted bedding projects to encourage and assist all families within their boundaries to be well equipped with good beds and bedding. The Relief Society now urges all families to make a follow-up check of their bedding facilities and make an effort to provide themselves with any additional bedding which is needed. Comfortable and adequate bedding is particularly needed at this time because of curtailment of the fuel supply in many communities due to exigencies of war and because of the need for protecting the health of every individual during this war period while nursing and medical facilities and supplies are limited. Because of present conditions with respect to labor, materials, and war production, only those bedding supplies which are currently needed should be procured at this time. Suggestions have been issued to ward Relief Societies for cooperative plans whereby members supplying their own materials may have quilting done at Relief Society meetings.
Women Advised to Take Courses in First Aid and Home Nursing: The General Board of Relief Society again advises that all women able to do so take the Red Cross course in first aid or home nursing, or both. Many Relief Societies are arranging with the local Red Cross chapter for these courses to be given in the wards, and members may make inquiry of their local Relief Society president or their local Red Cross chapter concerning such courses.
Other Recommendations Applicable Only in War Risk Areas: The General Board recommends that in war risk areas, ward Relief Societies procure ward first-aid supplies to be kept under jurisdiction of the Relief Society in ward meetinghouses. A recommended list of such supplies for these areas is contained in a bulletin dated December 29, 1942 and sent to all stake, ward, and mission Relief Society presidents. This bulletin also recommended that in war risk areas at least one woman in each stake be called to prepare herself as a Red Cross first-aid instructor who will conduct first-aid classes for the convenience of the women in the local wards of the stake. In these areas an additional survey is to be made by the visiting teachers in February to ascertain supplies which families would be able to make available, upon call of the ward Relief Society president, for use in case of emergency entailing temporary housing other than in homes. Accordingly, in sections considered by stake or mission authorities to be war risk areas, a special survey form for this purpose will accompany the leaflet to be distributed by the visiting teachers during the month of February.
Petitions on Informative Labeling
The General Board of Relief Society is cooperating with the National Council of Women in petitioning the Office of Price Administration to require that goods bear informative labels clearly stating what an article is, of what it is made, how it is made, what service it will give, and how it should be cared for. All Relief Society members in the United States can help achieve this desirable goal by signing petitions which will be explained and circulated at a Relief Society meeting.
Suggestive Program for Sunday Evening, March 7, 1943
IN a letter dated April 26, 1942, the First Presidency designated the evening meeting of Fast Sundays for use by the auxiliary organizations. At a meeting of the general executives of the auxiliaries, the Fast Sunday evening meetings of November and March were assigned to Relief Society. Ward Relief Society presidents may therefore consult their respective bishops and ask for permission to arrange for a Relief Society meeting on the evening of March 7, 1943. This is a very favorable Sunday on which to present a Relief Society program, coming as it does on the first Sunday of Relief Society anniversary month. The General Board submits the following suggestive program for use on this evening. Wards desiring to plan their own programs are at liberty to do so. Much of the material for the suggested program is drawn from The American Citizens Handbook recommended for use in the