YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING "There is no need. It will always be there, in my mind." Belle spoke sharply. "I have the feeling that you are being more faithful than he would be in a like situation." "You did not like him," Selena reminded her, as though speaking to a child. "You can say that if it pleases you, but you have no proof." "T '' Belle opened her mouth to say more, then she thought better of it. She called to one of the oxen instead, as Selena lapsed back into silence. Determined that she would not prove to be a drawback to the day's progress, Belle had had her oxen yoked and ready for the day's journey before anyone else in camp. The same thing was true that night. She could unyoke a team of oxen as quickly as any man in the wagon train. Since she had a special reason for wanting to do so, she made it a point to be just a little faster; to see that whenever Josiah came around of an evening, her team was already turned out to grass. They had been on the trail a week before Selena saw Lon Holiday. When she did, it took a moment before she could remember where she had seen him before. It was the deep blue of his eyes that recalled him—the young man at the cemetery on the day of the funeral. It was with an effort that Selena was able to speak civilly to him, remembering still her smoldering resentment. He nodded to Selena but directed his remarks to Belle. "T know Josiah can take care of his ten wagons all right but I want you to know I, too, am ready. To help in any way I can. I'm Lon Holiday and captain of fifty." WPe're getting along real well," said Belle, "'but thanks just the same. It does seem good to know there's someone looking out for us a bit." "Well, Josiah's a good man on a wagon train. There's nothing about this kind of traveling that he doesn't know," said Lon, facing Belle, but his eyes were on Selena. "Except how to hold his tongue!"' said Belle, sharply. Lon looked again at Belle and laughed. "You've had a word with him, have you?" "The first and the last," said Belle. "I've had all the words I care to have with him." "T've seen him in many a tight spot, but Josiah always finds a way out." "That's good," said Belle. "Just let him come around this wagon and he'll need to find a way out, quick!" Lon rode on toward the end of the wagon train, chuckling. "Now there is a man," said Belle, "one that you could depend on. Somehow I feel quite a bit easier, to know that our getting to the Valley doesn't depend upon the leadership of Josiah Blodgett." Selena did not answer, and Belle had the impression, as she 104 often did, that she was concerned little with the present. From that night on Lon Holiday made it a point to call at the Baldwin wagon each evening to offer his services. Selena answered briefly but very definitely each time that there was nothing he could do. Then one evening he came just as Belle was replacing the brake block that had come loose and fallen out. He took the axe from her capable hands and cut the stump of a tree she was working on, to size, and drove it in between the iron cleats. "There," he said, as he finished wedging the block in tight. "That ought to hold you for awhile. Better not tell your sister I helped. She might not ride in the wagon if she knew I fixed the brake block." "It isn't you particularly, with Selena," said Belle. "She's having a bad time. The best thing anyone can do right now is leave her pretty much to herself. Where are your folks, Lon?" "They couldn't accept the truth," answered Lon. "After I joined the Church, they. Couldn't accept me, either. They are still living, back in Massachusetts. And I am not welcome." "That's a coincidence," said Belle. "Same with Selena and me. Our folks couldn't believe it either, but we both knew the missionaries were teaching the truth, and we had to come." "You and Selena. I still find it strange to think the two of you are sisters." "It surprised you, did it? I'm not surprised. Everyone finds it hard to believe, what with Selena being dark and so much smaller and, well, just prettier than I am. ~ No one has ever taken us to be sisters, or for that matter, been hardly able to believe we were once they found it out." "Oh, I didn't mean..." began Lon, embarrassed by the turn the conversation had taken. "Tt doesn't matter," replied Belle, getting to her feet and picking up the axe, as Lon rode off. AT the evening dances around the campfires, Selena and Belle usually sat together, watching rather than dancing, but for entirely different reasons. Selena would have none of the gaiety and laughter and few of the young men were anxious to ask Belle. "T did. Just once," said John Meeks, "and that was enough. Why, she'd like to have picked me up and swung me clear off the ground every time the caller said 'Swing your partners.' I just don't think it's safe." This warning, coupled with the natural disinclination of the other young men to have Belle for a partner, kept her watching rather than taking part in the dancing. Any young man in the camp would have been pleased to dance with Selena. Many of them asked her at the beginning, but her repeated refusals were sufficient to discourage the most eager of the dancers. It almost angered Selena to see others gay and happy with the YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING memory of her own sorrow fresh and new. "Why do they have to dance so much?" she asked Belle as they sat in front of their wagon, the music filling the night air. "T should think once in awhile would be enough, but no, it's every single night except Sunday." "They need to dance, Selena," Belle answered. 'They have all had just as hard a day as we have. They need to relax." "That's just what I mean." Selena spoke heatedly, 'Only day before yesterday old Brother Christiansen was buried along the way. And here they are, again tonight, dancing as though nothing had happened." "We can't just give ourselves up to grief and sorrow, Selena." Belle arose and stood tall beside her sister. "No one can keep on living with just memories." "Belle!"" Selena cried. "How can you be so cruel?"' She whirled, running toward the back of the wagon as Lon came around it from the other direction. She bumped hard against him and he caught her in his arms, steadying her a moment to keep her from falling. "I'm sorry," he apologized, and drew back as she regained her footing. "Let me alone!" she cried. "TI came at the wrong time, it seems," said Lon to Belle. '"Seems like I always show up at the wrong time, as far as Selena is concerned." ""There's never a right time to be around Selena these days," answered Belle. "I'd like to be of more help. You're too efficient, Belle. I'd feel a lot better if I could do something for the two of you." Belle looked at him squarely. "You mean for Selena." It was a statement, not a question. Lon did not evade it. "Yes, I do," he said. "But you are her family, Belle. I mean for you, too." Belle was quiet for a long moment, watching the dancing. "So that's the way it is." "That's the way it is,"' said Lon quietly. "That's the way it has been ever since I first saw Selena, back there at the grave in Winter Quarters." After a time, Belle spoke again. "It will take a long time, Lon." "IT have plenty. Someday I mean to marry Selena."