WORK MEETING The Latter-day Saint Home (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Discussion 16 — Planning Family Recreation Dr. Virginia F. Cutler For Second Meeting, Objective: To plan family activities constructively that will bring refreshment of strength and spirits after toil. Ir it is true that "all work and no play makes Jack a dull boy," and that "all play and no work makes Jack a mere toy," then Jack and his family might well find a course to follow that will avoid these extremes. 'There are Jacks and Janes who never see the sunset, or hear the rolling in of the tide; nor enjoy the beauty of a flower, bird, or tree, nor have time for anything creative on their own. Of course, Jack and Jane must strive for academic excellence, if they are to survive in the twentieth century world. 'They must not be impoverished in experience if they are to understand the moral, social, aesthetic, and spiritual values that give real meaning and purpose to life and enrich the common culture. What educates most is the immediate experience of a child within each situation. Thus the familv educates and is the chief agency through which Jack and Jane may develop some balance in living. Experiences provided through creative activity in the home and through excursions, nature walks, and flying 144 kites, or other family interests help keep the balance. One little Jack, aged five, and his family had an excursion to a cave where he learned about stalactites and stalagmites. He learned to say these tongue-twisters and bought a piece of polished stalactite which started his rock collection. He wanted to know what the rock was made of and what conditions in the cave produced it. Friends and relatives, noting his great interest in rocks, brought him specimens, and after a year there were so many rocks that it looked as if they would take over, and the family would have to move out. After this experience, it is unlikely that Jack, now grown, would build a bomb shelter, but he is on the team to investigate one's tolerance for carbon dioxide while in a submarine and is applying the findings to determine one' tolerance for carbon dioxide while in a space capsule. It is very likely that the family excursion to the cave and the follow-up activities had something to do with Jack's present interests. Another little Jack took to carving animals out of soap after a family excursion to a children's museum. Within a year there were soap animals marching across the mantel and on every bookshelf, and enough soap shavings to do the family wash. The soap menagerie increased as nature walks introduced new subjects and the interest progressed to the media of wood and clay. At age thirty, the Christmas present to the five children and his wife was a bust of each which had been molded in clay, then cast. This was a creative experience in which all six participated. A victim of polio was a paraplegic at age one. At forty-one he could look at his family with pride, and at his comfortable home and mountain cabin, and car that he could drive, and feel a great sense of accomplishment in not owing anyone and being able to support himself and family. This remarkable achievement can be traced back to excursions with his father to the smelter to see the big time clock which his father repaired. He developed a keen interest in clocks and watches and learned all the intricacies of the trade, enough to earn his livelihood. Where do ideas begin that help to make a life? Seeds are planted early, and what may seem to be casual, unimportant events may have ingredients for greatness, if pursued. Excursions, nature walks, visits to museums, and backyard picnics provide experiences for enLESSON: DEPARTMENT richment throughout life and should be part of the weekly schedule. 'The vacation in the mountains or at the seashore takes long-time planning and budgeting, but the happy memories of such events bring dividends, year after year. Recreation, by definition, is "'refreshment of strength and _ spirits after toil; diversion; play; to recreate." No better example of "refreshment of strength and _ spirits after toil" could be seen than families of Thailand flying kites in the high wind. In most instances each family member helps to make his own kite. There are boy kites and gitl kites, and large and small ones, each with its own distinctive pattern. All ages participate in the sheer joy of the majestic sky dance of the kites. They laugh and shout and sing as the wind blows through their hair and wraps their sarongs and pakimas more tightly about them. After a day with the kites they can say Mai Pen. Rai (never mind) more easily as they meet problems and troubles along life's way. What is more precious than the memories of happy hours when mother and father, sons and daughters, meet together to laugh and play and bring refreshment of strength and spirit, and a bond of family togetherness greater than before? What "recreative" activities do you share with your family week by week? And what are your plans for some soul-lifting days away from home in the year ahead?