SOCIAL SCIENCE °¢ Divine Law and Church Government ': [ts Organization and Structure Lesson 14 — Summary of Organization and Structure of the Church Elder Anil S. Ballif For Fourth Meeting, Objective: To emphasize the evidence of divine influence in the structure and operation of Church government. The Church is the body of believers, organized [by the Priesthood] according to divine law. It is invested with the necessary rights, powers, and authority to carry forward on earth the purposes of the Almighty Father as contained in his plan of salvation for his children on earth (Wiptsor, Joun A.: Program of the Church, 1941 edition, page 22). Zion, ""The pure in heart," the kingdom of God here upon the earth, is The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and no other, and with its divinely restored power of the priesthood of the Living God, with its ordinances, organizations, agencies, and facilities, and with its message of pure, eternal gospel truth, it reaches out the hand of fellowship to the whole human family, to lead our Father's children into transcendent joy, eternal progress, and the presence of our Lord (RicHarps, STEPHEN L: Where Is Wisdom? Page 406). The Priesthood is a dynamic creative power and a directing force upon the earth. Adam held the Holy Priesthood after the order of the Son of God. In the various dispensations of time, God has activated his Priesthood, instituted his government, and offered his services to the human family. Having in mind the welfare of his children and being constantly 152 aware of the purpose of creation, God has revealed a system of government for his Church that would make possible peace on earth and good will among men. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is the kingdom of God upon the earth today. In it there is a fulness of the gospel being administered by his authorized agents. 'This means that' all the wisdom, counsel, and direction (divine law), that God has ever revealed to man to assist him in his quest for joy, happiness, and exaltation have been restored. The Restoration of the Priesthood The 6th of April, 1830, was both a climax and a beginning in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. The major event in its history took place in a grove in early spring of 1820. In this quiet, peaceful place the testimony of the ancient scriptures was verified as the boy Joseph Smith beheld the Father and the Son. Their declaration to him, that the Church of God was not upon the earth, began a chain of events that climaxed in the organization of the Church. These events included instruction and training by heavenly messengers, the key events happening in May and June of 1829, when the power and authority to act officially for God upon the earth were conferred upon Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery by John the Baptist and apostles Peter, James, and John, the men Christ had chosen in the meridian of time to head his Church following the crucifixion. Shortly after the restoration of the Priesthood, the translation' of The Book of Mormon was completed. It became a new witness for God testifying of the mission of Jesus Christ. With the Holy Priesthood as his authority to act and the witness to the world of the fulness of the gospel contained in The Book of Mormon, the Prophet Joseph brought the first phase of his work to a focal point with the orgnization of the Church. Church Government Is the Priesthood in Action It is most significant to note how little attention was given to the structure of Church government until the Priesthood was conferred upon Joseph and Oliver. We believe that a man must be called of God, by prophecy, and by the laying on of hands, by those who are in authority to preach the Gospel and administer in the ordinances thereof (Fifth Article of Faith). After the Priesthood was given to them, Joseph and Oliver explained ) the principles of the gospel, baptized ) those who received a testimony, and - then set up the official organization LESSON DEPARTMENT and government of the Church (see Section 20 of the Doctrine and Covenants). Patterned after the structure of the Church Jesus had established while he was upon the earth. The Enlightenment of the Holy Ghost The Prophet Joseph informs us that immediately following their baptism, the Holy Ghost fell upon them and they prophesied of important things to come. Joseph says: Our minds being now enlightened, we began to have the scriptures laid open to our understandings, and the true meaning and intention of their more mysterious passages revealed unto us in a manner which we never could attain to previously, nor ever before had thought of... (Pearl of Great Price, Joseph Smith 2:74). After receiving the authority of the Priesthood and the enlightenment of mind from the Holy Ghost, the Church was organized. Through the process of inquiry and revelation, the Prophet received the detail of the structure and government of the Church, not all at once, but step by step until an organization unequaled by the efforts of man, has been perfected. The Sacredness of Priesthood Callings In our course of study we are concerned with the fact that the Priesthood was restored and is the basis upon which Church government and organization are built. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was not founded upon protests against the alleged mistakes of any existing Churches. It was founded 153 BEAUTIFUL - SACRED MUSIC THREE PART WOMEN'S CHORUSES FORTH IN THY NAME, O LORD I GO Schumann'.20 GOD IS LOVE 00 Shelley.20 HEAVENS ARE TELLING Haydn.25 IF YE LOVE ME, KEEP MY COMMMANDMENTS Madsen.25 IN THY FORM Madsen'.20 LET THE MOUNTAINS SHOUT FOR JOY -Stephens.20 LO, MY SHEPHERD IS DIVINE —_ iHaydn.22 LORD'S PRAYER Gates.20 LORD, WE DEDICATE THIS HOUSE TO THEE Madsen.20 MY REDEEMER LIVES Gates.20 O DAY OF REST AND GLADNESS Schumann.20 OMNIPOTENCE Schubert.20 Use this advertisement as your order blank Music Sent on Approval | DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY | 15 E. Ist South 1! Salt Lake City 11, Utah i Please send the music indicated above. 1 1 [] On Approval [] Charge [] Money Enclosed | | Name | Address 1 i 1 City and State Daynes Mise | badbaad 15 E. Ist South! SE es ee ee oe ee eee es ee se ee 2 ee ee ee eee ee ee eee eee ee eee eee eee a a oe ee ee et ee ee ee ee Se Set ees we,? Salt Lake City 11, Utah by the Priesthood of God through direct instructions from Christ himself. We must keep in mind that every office and calling in the Pnesthood, both Aaronic and Melchizedek, is sacred and important to the work of the Lord. To be ordained to a calling in the Priesthood is a distinction, and to function in the government of the Church is an honor and a blessing. To be worthy to act as the authorized agent of God, exercising his power among men, demands God-like actions in all areas of human behavior. The nearer men come to perfection, the greater their effectiveness in their Priesthood callings. Therefore, as the body of the Priesthood _ bearers achieve this perfection, it is reflected in the operation of the Church. The Worth of Souls The importance of the Priesthood in Church government is pointed out in the above discussions. Nothing can be done officially without the authority of the Priesthood. It should also be pointed out that the government of the Church, the total organization and program of the Church, are designed by the Creator for the welfare of man. There is much evidence to support the statement that God's major purpose and concern is the perfection of man. For example, in the beginning all the intelligences existed coeternally with God. The personality of man _ becomes sacred by the fact of the spiritual Fatherhood of God; and as a major evidence he, the Father, gave his Only Begotten Son as a LESSON DEPARTMENT Sacrifice to Open the Way for all LET S Lp: mankind to have "verlasting life 'oon FRETRAVEL Whenever the urch of Gog has To C€n upon the rth, j Major dut HAWaI! End SOurH PACIFIC has been to in Mankind of the (New low fares) Purpose of life, man' telationshj _ to God and to man, and to make 2] — eee Tours Man aware of his own POSsibilities (Save 39%) i T€sPonsibilities 48 a child of HE HOLy LAND: includ Egypt, 1 bano Jordan Israel} Calling Cople to Fepentance, or withers" Gjreces anette! - ~ tO accept the Pattern of Jife that Il assure t of their STeatest HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT accomplishments In lif an exaltaincluding World's Fait', New York 10N in the Celestia] kingdom, Is the (With Dr 7 Edgar Lyon) Bo assignment of he Priest. Vai eal come and MURDOcK TRAVEL, INC (Bonded) P F lesth d Quor Ums and (Your Experienced Travel Counselor) Church Organization 4 South Main Street To bee €ctive in the lives of peo Ple and; the 6 | Such as "8, quorum of CY administer the Church Stake, Ward SSI S€rvices; (: ) to aU pertains to th Handbook, Page 21.) The quorum st, 4S an organized body of the P hood implies Usiness | Patriarchs ] Standard of 18N priests' Mission Presidents, cletks, ang high Councilors | S (without | h member. Ion from a Genera] C, Assistants to the residents of ained high PProved by the > ANd Is set apart by € Proper Genera] Authoritie POUR Ob j.. | then Proceed to gal] the neces anch Presidencjes When Tanches ar In the adminis. Trative Officers and Organizatio Its €€0graphic units. Emment j; Y a president called - and 5 IS the function of Priesthoo the First Presi- " President with Ors preside jn the Tanch and dj C presidents aT€ appointed an ~ Fresident, with his part by them Ounselors, the "uorum of the | Welve, the Pa larch € missio Counsel] d set 'Y Tepresent the Irst Tesidency an Conduct the sie Ssistants Officia] business Of the mice; to the Twelve, the even Presiden ts of Seventy, and t di Optic MISsion yper the direction of the F; e residing Bish. Ncy, Constitute the Gen porting units to the branches, wards, stakes, and missions. They provide the manpower that the officers of these organized units need, in order to carry out the program of the Church. The ecclesiastical line of authority governs and operates the program of the Church. The Priesthood line of authority is responsible for developing leadership abilities in each quorum member through the Priesthood objectives. All Church members are subject to call by the proper ecclesiastical authority to fill the offices in the Church program of branch, ward, stake, or Church. Membership in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints means activity in a good cause. It calls for an applied testimony of the truthfulness of the gospel, "be ye doers of the word, and not hearers only..." (James 1:22). As has been indicated, the quorum is the training ground for leadership in the Church. An important characteristic of leadership is how to be a good follower. Quorum membership implies a desire to prepare, to Improve one's ability to do something for others and do it to the best of one's ability. Ward and branch membership is the place where this preparation is put into action. The Gospel of Repentance The gospel of Jesus Christ is a gospel of repentance. Christ gave mankind a perfect example and presented a way of life that would lead to perfection. "Therefore to him that knoweth to do good, and doeth it not, to him it is sin" (James 4:17). The call to repentance is extended to people everywhere, in all walks LESSON DEPARTMENT WORLD'S FAIR TOURS 21 days — June 21 to July 11: World's Fair, Church historical places (does not include Pageant). — 27 days — July 13 to August 8: World's Fair, Church historical places. Includes Hill Cumorah Pageant. Also, Quebec and Montreal, Canada. 24 days — July 23 to August 15: World's Fair, Church historical places, including Hill Cumorah Pageant. =< All tours include: Show at Jones' Beach, Rockettes, Top Broadway Show and a special event ticket at World's Fair, etc. <p Esther James Tours 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 Phones: EM 3-5229 — EL 9-8051 and stations of life. The great objective is to bring all mankind into the light, knowledge, and wisdom of the Creator. This is the only approach to perfection. Any individual who does not do as well as he knows how has need of repentance. People should never stop extending their knowledge of all that is good. In the program of the Church, the idea of repentance is given constant attention. Human nature must be disciplined. The appetites of man must be controlled for his own good and advancement. True repentance means a _ permanent change in behavior. The plan of life and salvation teaches all men the value and benefit of righteous living. The wayward are given special attention with the hope that they will recognize their mistakes, exercise their agency, and elect to follow the design of the Creator. The emphasis of divine law is on rehabilitation of the wayward through wisdom, guidance, mercy, and love. The courts or councils of justice in the Church are designed to bring people to repentance. They are to bring to light the truth in the case, not to condemn and destroy, but to encourage re-orientation of life in harmony with the eternal values of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Even when it is necessary for the Church court to pronounce the severe action of excommunication, forgiveness must always be in the hearts of the members of the Church. Jesus said he would forgive whom he would, but we as individuals must forgive all. The authorized judge in a Church court is not required to forgive the sins of individuals, but may be in a position where he must exact severe penalties. Certainly every judge, however, should have the spirit of forgiveness in his heart. It must be remembered that councils of justice are helpful, even essential, to personal development of offenders in that they tend to stimulate the art of discipline and self-control. The courts of the Church support and sustain the high ideals and values in our way of life. It should be remembered that love is the real motivation of the Priesthood and should be basic to all human association. Certainly the dispensing of justice in the Church courts should be as full of mercy as is assured by the Master, himself. Church Government Was Initiated for Man's Advancement Jesus dedicated his life to the service of his fellow men. This is the pattern he set for each person who enjoys membership in his Church and kingdom. Every person in the Church is a potential leader and if each one follows the program of the Church, he can prepare himself to perform any duty assigned him in the Church. One needs humility, sincerity, faith, and a willingness to work hard, to be successful as an officer or teacher. The opportunities and responsibilities involved in a calling in Church government are about equal in their bearing upon the person involved. 'The opportunities result in growth and development of the individual. 'The responsibilities require service to others, assisting them in their pursuit of happiness, understanding, and perfection. This unselfish dedication to service increases the efficiency and effectiveness of the person and builds a confidence and competency in his leadership. The compensation is great in net returns to the individual accepting a calling. The true value of service is derived from the consecration of time and talent to the work of the Lord which, in simple terms, is the uplifting of mankind. References Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 18; 20; 27; 42; 43; 58; 102; 107; 114; 115; 121; 127; and 132. WiptsoE, Joun A.: Priesthood and Church Government, Chapters 9; 10; 11; 12; 13; 14; 15; 16; 17; and 18. SMITH, JosEPH Fretpinc: Essentials in Church History, Chapter 9. Pearl of Great Price: Joseph Smith. Articles of Faith, Chapters 10; 20; 23; 24. Thoughts for Discussion 1. What evidence can you give of the divinity of the Church? 2. What is the real objective of Church government and organization?. Why was it necessary to restore the Priesthood before the organization of Church government? 4. Accepting the fact that the Priesthood is the power of God and that Church government is this power in action, what importance do we give the program of the Church in our everyday life? 5. How important are the principles of repentance and forgiveness in the operation of Church government? 6. How important are you as an individual to the operation of Church government? BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $2.75; Leather Cover — $4.20 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Up to 150 miles.35 1000 to 1400 miles.64 150 to 300 miles.39 1400 to 1800 miles.76 300 to 600 miles.45 Over 1800 miles.87 600 to 1000 miles.54 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Ere EMpire 4-2581, 33 Richards St., S. L. C., Utah, —_— DPESERET[REwS PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 ZIMS Established 1932 ALL THE NEW HANDICRAFT MATERIALS — AND ALL THE OLD FAVORITES. Send 25c for new 1964 catalog, and receive, free, our newest booklet, "Satin Wrappin' " — directions for ribbonwrapped styrofoam novelties. Cost of catalog deductible from first order. Discounts to Groups —