[Vol8 | February 1921 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons for April]
Guide  Lessons  for  April 
LESSON  I. 
Theology  and  Testimony 
First  Week  in  April. 
SALVATION  FOR  THE  LIVING  AND  THE  DEAD. 
CHURCH    ORGANIZATION. 
All  group  life  must  be  organized  civilly  and  socially,  or 
chaos  would  result.  One  man  and  one  woman  may  live  together, 
with  their  family,  if  it  is  small,  and  live  without  strife,  perhaps, 
for  a  period,  in  a  desert  or  on  an  island.  As  soon,  however,  as 
the  family  increases,  marries  and  sets  up  other  family  groups, 
there  must  be  rules  and  regulations,  in  order  to  curb  the  strong 
and  to  protect  the  weak.  Two  men  may  want  the  same  thing, 
and  each  may  have  a  more  or  less  just  claim.  Who  shall  decide 
between  them  ?  Shall  they  fight  it  out  or  refer  the  case  to  some 
trusted  third  person?  No  two  human  beings  see  things  exactly 
the  same.     All  life  is  a  series  of  compromises. 
The  need  for  organization  in  civil  and  social  life  is  dupli- 
cated by  the  need  for  organization  in  religious  or  spiritual  life. 
The  laws  that  underlie  human  life  and  its  individual  complex- 
ities are  similar  to  those  which  underlie  life  on  the  other  side. 
If,  as  we  believe,  there  will  be  no  strife  nor  confusion  in  the 
higher  spheres  Over  There,  it  is  because  those  who  enter  the 
higher  spheres  over  there  have  learned  about  the  laws  which  ban- 
ish strife  and  confusion  and  have  had  strength  to  live  by  them. 
May  it  not  be  almost  as  injurious  to  society  for  a  weak  person  lo 
give  in  and  be  imposed  upon  all  the  time  as  it  is  for  the  strong 
person  to  be  cruel  and  selfish  in  his  or  her  conduct? 
There  are  many  laws  which  pertain  to  the  kingdom  of  heaven. 
And  there  is  no  line  to  mark  the  division  between  the  temporal 
and  the  spiritual.  Right  is  right,  truth  is  truth,  law  is  law,  here 
and  hereafter.  If  there  is  law,  there  must  be  those  who  under- 
stand and  administer  the  law.  The  individual  must  be  protected 
from  the  group,  while  the  group  must  be  protected  from  the  in- 
dividual. 
Organization  is  therefore  a  vital  need  of  religion.  In  the 
dawn  of  man's  histor}^',  the  father  ruled  over  his  family  in  the 
patriarchal  order  and  united  both  civil  and  religious  office  in 
himself.  The  eldest  son  carried  down  the  authority  and  organ- 
ization.    When  groups  congregated  and  built  cities,  more  elab-
