[Vol8 | February 1921 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: New Issue of the Book of Mormon]

Book of Mormon lesson, by ward member; Vocal music, by ward members; Short talks on prayer, by Stake Board member; Short talks on chaperonage, by Stake Board member; singing by ward choir, benediction by Relief Society member. North Davis Stake. The following excellent outline was furnished the visiting teachers of the North Davis stake by the Stake Board, to be used on their visits for the month of January, 1921. THE WORD OF. WISDOM 1. What is the "Word of Wisdom?" (Read Sec. 89 of the Doctrine and Covenants.) (1) A revelation given to the Prophet Joseph Smith, February 27, 1832. (2) What things are condemned in the "Word of Wisdom?" a. Wine and strong drinks. B. Tobacco. C. Hot drinks. D. Excessive or heavy use of meat. (3) Things recommended by the "Word of Wisdom." a, Herbs and fruits. B. Meat in proper amounts and during the appropriate seasons. C. Grains and vegetables. 2. Purpose of the revelation. (1) For "temporal salvation of all Saints in the last days.' a. As a means of securing and preserving health and strength. B. To keep the body clean and pure. 3. Promises made to those who keep this law. (1, Health; (2) Wisdom and treasures of knowledge; (3) Great vitality— shall run and not be weary; (4) Long life. 4. Ways in which the principles of "Word of Wisdom"' is being most commonly violated among our people. (1) Alarming increase in use of tobacco. (2) Common use of hot drinks, (especially tea and coffee). (3) Heavy use of meat. 5. How can we bring about a better observance of this principle? (1) Through convincing individual members of the Church that: a. The use of anything forbidden by this law NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 109 impairs the health and strength of the body and makes one a prey for disease; b. One's mind is less fit; c. No person can do his best as a citizen, a student, a workman, or a member of his Church unless he observes this law; d. God requires obedience to this principle by all who love and respect him. Special Health Lectures. During the month of December, special health lectures were given to the combined Relief Societies of the Salt Lake City stakes by Miss Charlotte Dancy, former superintendent of nurses at the L.-D. S. Hospital, and now a lecturer on health, Utah Agricultural College. The subjects were, Elimination, Tonsilitis, Dress, and Hydrotherapy. Demonstrations were given in connection with the lectures and much practical information was gained which will be most beneficial in the families of those who availed themselves of the splendid course. PAPAGO INDIAN RELIEF SOCIETY. Maricopa Stake. The Papago Indian Branch recently held a fair and bazaar, at the reservation school, for the purpose of raising funds for the society. They realized over $80. In connection with the bazaar they sold sandwiches, molasses cake, and soft drinks colored with berries. At the stake board rummage sale, they, with each of the other wards, had charge of a booth which they deco- 
 Rated and supervised. Papago Branch has donated $40 toward the Arizona temple. Mrs. Nellie San Tao, a graduate of the Phoenix Indian school, is president of this branch. FAIR EXHIBIT OF PAPAGO INDIANS.