[Vol8 | February 1921 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons for April]
Guide  Lessons  for  April 
LESSON  I. 
Theology  and  Testimony 
First  Week  in  April. 
SALVATION  FOR  THE  LIVING  AND  THE  DEAD. 
CHURCH    ORGANIZATION. 
All  group  life  must  be  organized  civilly  and  socially,  or 
chaos  would  result.  One  man  and  one  woman  may  live  together, 
with  their  family,  if  it  is  small,  and  live  without  strife,  perhaps, 
for  a  period,  in  a  desert  or  on  an  island.  As  soon,  however,  as 
the  family  increases,  marries  and  sets  up  other  family  groups, 
there  must  be  rules  and  regulations,  in  order  to  curb  the  strong 
and  to  protect  the  weak.  Two  men  may  want  the  same  thing, 
and  each  may  have  a  more  or  less  just  claim.  Who  shall  decide 
between  them  ?  Shall  they  fight  it  out  or  refer  the  case  to  some 
trusted  third  person?  No  two  human  beings  see  things  exactly 
the  same.     All  life  is  a  series  of  compromises. 
The  need  for  organization  in  civil  and  social  life  is  dupli- 
cated by  the  need  for  organization  in  religious  or  spiritual  life. 
The  laws  that  underlie  human  life  and  its  individual  complex- 
ities are  similar  to  those  which  underlie  life  on  the  other  side. 
If,  as  we  believe,  there  will  be  no  strife  nor  confusion  in  the 
higher  spheres  Over  There,  it  is  because  those  who  enter  the 
higher  spheres  over  there  have  learned  about  the  laws  which  ban- 
ish strife  and  confusion  and  have  had  strength  to  live  by  them. 
May  it  not  be  almost  as  injurious  to  society  for  a  weak  person  lo 
give  in  and  be  imposed  upon  all  the  time  as  it  is  for  the  strong 
person  to  be  cruel  and  selfish  in  his  or  her  conduct? 
There  are  many  laws  which  pertain  to  the  kingdom  of  heaven. 
And  there  is  no  line  to  mark  the  division  between  the  temporal 
and  the  spiritual.  Right  is  right,  truth  is  truth,  law  is  law,  here 
and  hereafter.  If  there  is  law,  there  must  be  those  who  under- 
stand and  administer  the  law.  The  individual  must  be  protected 
from  the  group,  while  the  group  must  be  protected  from  the  in- 
dividual. 
Organization  is  therefore  a  vital  need  of  religion.  In  the 
dawn  of  man's  histor}^',  the  father  ruled  over  his  family  in  the 
patriarchal  order  and  united  both  civil  and  religious  office  in 
himself.  The  eldest  son  carried  down  the  authority  and  organ- 
ization.    When  groups  congregated  and  built  cities,  more  elab-

GUIDE  LESSONS.  115 
orate  organizations  were  needed.  The  ancient  world,  both  He- 
brew and  Pagan,  had  complex  systems  of  civil  and  religious  or- 
ganizations. In  the  Pagan  nations  the  priestly  and  civil  offices 
were  usually  separated.  When  Moses  made  his  people  ready  for 
group  life,  before  they  reached  Judea,  he  united  the  civil  and 
religious  offices,  in  a  way,  as  did  Joshua  and  the  Judges.  But 
when  Saul  became  king,  and  the  two  offices  were  divided,  they 
remained  so,  as  long  as  the  Hebrew  nation  survived.  Modern 
European  nations  are  a  compromise.  The  czar,  the  kaiser  and  the 
English  king  were,  and  the  king  is  still,  ex-officio  heads  of  the 
ruling  state  religion. 
According  to  the  Encyclopedia  Britannica,  in  the  article  upon 
church  history,  from  which  we  have  quoted,  we  learn  that  at  an 
early  date  there  were  regular  officers  in  this  or  that  local  Chris- 
tian church  whether  that  church  was  in  x\sia  Minor,  Rome,  Jeru- 
salem or  Egypt.  (The  Jewish  church  was  disorganized  after  the 
crucifixion  of  the  Savior,  and  has  never  been  organized  since 
with  a  central  authority  or  corporate  government.  Each  syna- 
gogue controls  its  own  affairs  and  is  independent  in  its  activities.) 
The  Catholic  church  makes  no  claim  for  organization  of  the 
higher  or  Melchizedek  Priesthood.  The  Pope  is  the  ruhng 
"bishop,"  who  claims  his  office  in  descent  from  the  original 
"bishop"  of  Rome.  "Under  him  are  cardinal  bishops  and  bishops 
in  ordinary.  The  cardinals  are  the  princes  and  senators  of  the 
church,  being  as  well  the  counselors  or  the  vicars  (which  means  a 
substitute)  in  the  office  of  the  functions  of  the  pontificate.  There 
are  three  major  orders  of  the  priesthood  in  the  Catholic  church 
and  four  minor  orders.  The  major  orders  are  bishops,  priests, 
deacons  and  sub-deacons.  The  four  minor  orders  are  acolytes 
(an  attendant  upon  a  clergyman),  exorcists  (one  who  purifies 
from  evil  spirits  by  adjurations  and  ceremonies),  readers,  (lec- 
turers in  a  college  or  university),  and  doorkeepers  (a  porter)." 
( See  Encyclopedia. ) 
The  countries  are  divided  into  various  circuits,  each  one 
called  a  diocese,  and  each  diocese  is  placed  under  the  charge  of 
a  bishop,  or  his  subordinate,  an  archbishop.  Priests  or  repre- 
sentatives of  the  bishop  of  the  diocese  have  charge  over  the  unit 
congregation  of  the  church  called  parishes  in  all  towns  or  cities 
according  to  the  size  of  the  unit. 
Early  in  the  second  century  the  three  permanent  officers  of 
the  church  were  the  bishop,  presbyter  (or  priest)  and  the  dea- 
con. Their  offices  were  needed  to  administer  charity,  direct 
public  services,  and  to  discipline  offenders.  The  bishops  them- 
selves were  "substitutes"  for  the  apostles  and  prophets,  some  of 
whom  it  is  said  still  lived  in  the  early  second  century.  About 
the  end  of  the  second  century,  because  of  an  uproar  raised  by  a