[Vol8 | February 1921 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman]

Notes from the Field By Amy Brown Lyman New Zealand Mission. 'The following very interesting letter has been received at Relief Society Headquarters, addressed to the mothers of the New Zealand missionaries in Utah and Idaho: Dear Sisters; A word from the latest arrivals in this mission may be welcomed at home. On the morning of November 9 there assembled on wharf No. 33, at San Francisco, President George S. Taylor and family, Elders Erwin Moser, Gerald Heaton, James Rawson, Wallace Martin, Edward Hayes, of Utah, and Elders Francis Wilcox, Edward Stanger, James Thornton, and Peter Johnson, of Idaho, all ready to sail, with many others for a foreign shore, on the English vessel Afarama. About noon we set sail with but one familiar face on shore to wave the farewell, Elder Lafayette Holbrook, who will always be remembered as the one home-folk to say adieu. The first day the sailing was beautiful and we were quite happy. By morning the scene had changed; waves were now to be seen, and the sea became rougher hour by hour. Before going on deck we were informed that there was much sickness on board. And we were soon convinced. All day, and for days, there were pale faces and staring eyes. Many good sailors were around as usual, but a few of our party were willing to miss their meals. Soon all were well again and enjoyed the games and pleasures of the deck. Tor two weeks we saw nothing but the beautiful sunlight, the clouds, and the restless deep. At last, about 4 p. M., November 20, we reached a most beautiful tropical island. Tahiti. We were met by Elders Steedman and Streeper, who welcomed, as new companions two of our party, Elders Martin and Hayes. We all went ashore and spent a very pleasant evening at the L. D. S. Mission Home. Next morning we attended the Sunday school with the elders and Saints of the Island. Then, at 3 p. M., we sailed, this time with more courage, for now we felt that our trip would soon be over. Two days later we called again at another beautiful island in the tropics—Rarotonga. November 30, at 9:30, we anchored at Wellington. Later we were met by the secretary of this mission, Elder Schwendiman and Elders Buttle, Stallings, Hunsaker and Clark, who were laboring near Wellington and on the South Island. Though strangers, we were soon acquainted, talking about the home land and: loved ones. A meeting was held in the evening and next morning we parted, the elders returning to their labors and the new ones going to Taharaite where they are to spend some time NOTES FROM THE FIELD. | 105 learning the Maori language, and the rest continuing to Auckland, the Mission headquarters. On the way we were met at different stations by Elders Barber, Anderson, Maughan, Hall, Winn, who were well, and greatly enthusiastic over their labors. About 7 a. M. December 2, we were met at the Auckland Station by conference President Willie, assistant secretary Madsen, and Elders Hall and Castleton. Ere long we were welcomed at the. Mission Home by Sister Schwendiman and son, Fred, On the boat our boys were noted for their clean, manly habits. They spent some time each day in study, then enjoyed the sports and pleasures of the company. They assisted much with the evening entertainments. Elder Martin pleasing many with his beautiful music. Now, dear mothers, you have nothing to fear in your sons, for they are all splendid young men, and have each a desire in their hearts to do their full duty in carrying on the work of the Lord; but let us have your prayers and best wishes. Your Sister, Ida A. Taylor. Central States Mission. At the St. Johns conference, of the Central States Mission, when the new church at 1857 South Wichita, Wichita, Kansas, was dedicated on December 4 and 5, a Relief Society was organized by Mrs. Charlotte T. Bennion with the following officers; Frances W. Kimball, president; Olie Holmes, first counselor; Carrie Julian, second counselor; May Burk, secretary and treasurer; Lulu Thompson, assistant secretary and treasurer. Pesident Samuel O. Bennion and Elder Richard R. Lyman were in attendance at the conference and were the principal speakers. Elder Lyman offered the dedicatory prayer. The twentyfour elders and five lady missionaries who are working: in this district were all in attendance, and at the Sunday afternoon session there were present in all, 200, many of the Saints from 'the surrounding country coming in for the services. The sing-- ing was furnished by the Independence choir. Canadian Mission. ° Although Winnipeg branch of this mission is small, the lack in numbers is made up by the interest of the members, The outline of lessons is followed as nearly as possible, and among the activities the members are sewing for busy mothers who have had sickness, and are visiting all sick members, both at the hospital and at home. European Mission. In a report from Mrs. Lucy Woodruff Smith, president of the Relief Societies of the European mission, we learn that she 
 Has recently visited branches of the organization in Basel, Lucerne and Bern, Switzerland; Frankfort and Berlin, Germany; Copenhagen, Denmark; and Christiania and Bergen, Norway. The largest organizations of the Relief Society at present are in the Swiss and German mission, that at Berlin having the largest membership of all. They average 100 and 110 at their regular meetings. Mrs. Smith says that the Saints on the continent are deeply interested in human welfare work. The Relief Societies in Basel, and other Swiss cities, have done a very large amount of work for the Saints in Austria and Germany and they are all assisting generally in caring for children, Little children are being sent in relays to Switzerland and to Scandinavian countries to be fed for a season, and then returned to their home. People receiving the children must guarantee their railroad fare both ways, and, of course, all expense in caring for them. In France, Switzerland and Germany the people are still eating dark bread. When the new harvest is gathered, they hope to have a change. The new mission house in Basel is a credit to the Church, and has been kept in splendid condition by President and Mrs. Cannon, Vasatch Stake. The Wasatch stake is the first to send in annual membership dues for 1921. The check covered 100% for this stake. Pocatello Stake. On December 3, the officers and members in the Pocatello stake gave a testimonial to their former officers, Mrs. Emily Gladwin; her counselors, Elizabeth Priest and Sarah E. Clark and the secretary-treasurer, Mary Ann Edgley. Two hundred fifty were in attendance. After a very interesting program a luncheon was served and old time dances were indulged -in. — The guests of honor were all presented with beautiful finger rings. San Luis Stake. A great loss has been sustained in the death of Mary Holman, who passed away last August while in Utah, where she had been called to her mother's death bed. Three weeks after the death of her mother, Mrs. Holman passed away. Her body was taken home to Manassa for burial. The funeral was one of the largest and most impressive ever held in the stake. Mrs. Holman was greatly beloved by all who knew her and will be greaty missed in Relief Society and community circles. NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 107 Cache and Logan Stakes. Tuesday afternoon, November 16, the members of the Cache and Logan stake Relief Societies held a testimonial for the retiring president, Lucy Cardon and her board. President Ellen _ Barber conducted the exercises. Mrs. Cardon's favorite hymns were sting: "How firm a foundation," "Our mountain home so dear," "Truth reflects upon our senses." The address of welcome was given by Mrs. Martha W. Carlisle, in which she reviewed the long and useful life of Mrs. Cardon, how she had joined the Relief Society when it was first organized in Logan, while she was but a girl, and had labored as an officer for 43 years in the Cache stake. Mention was made of Mrs. Mary E. Smith, who had served as Mrs. Cardon's secretary for 27 years, and of Julia Blair, who had served as treasurer. Mrs. Cardon's board had always been united and labored harmoniously for the best good of the work. Attention was called to the fact that although Mrs. Cardon had been very active in Relief Society work and had for years officiated in the Logan temple, she had brought up a large family of excellent children. President Budge referred to the great faith and spirituality of Mrs. Cardon, and of her even temperament and good poise. President Joseph E. Cardon spoke of Mrs. Cardon as a neighbor, calling attention to her patience with their boyish pranks as children and to her genial good nature. Mrs. Lizzie Owen of Cache stake made a short talk naming the guests of honor of the day as President Lucy S. Cardon, Counselors Margaret Morrell and Kinnie B. Caine, Mary E. Smith and Ruth E. Moench, who were each presented with a token from the members. A reading was given by Mrs. Lulu Farrell, a solo by Mrs. Jane Thatcher, and an organ solo by Professor Clark. The opening and closing prayers were offered by Elders John E. Carlisle and John T. Caine. Rigby Stake. The following interesting items were taken from reports given at a very profitable conference held in Rigby stake on December 3, at which the attendance was excellent, in spite of the disagreeable weather; Mrs. Ann Raymond and Mrs. Elizabeth Cotrell, district teachers in the Menan ward, in visiting two districts, traveled 33 miles; two wards, the Rigby first and second tied with the exception of a fraction of one percent in favor of Rigby second, on 100% ward teaching for the past year, for which a book, Articles of Faith by Talmage, was given by the stake board as a prize for this excellent work. The ward receiving the prize, and which was organized ten months ago with 
 44 members, has a present membership of 95 with 51 average attendance: 63 subscriptions for the Magazine are taken in the ward. The following ward committees are giving excellent service: a sewing committee for the work meeting, and a committee to look after the sick and to assist where there is death. During the ten months their receipts have amounted to $787.82. Idaho Stake. Following is the program of the Relief Society ward conferences, which have been held in the various wards of the Idaho stake;