[Vol8 | February 1921 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: World Happenings James H. Anderson]

World Happenings By James H. Anderson Ttaly voted in November, 1920, to give equal suffrage to women. The American Congress proposed to stop immigration from Europe in the near future. Home-rule for Ireland was adopted by the British parliament in December, but peace there is not assured. A. Lucy Stone, weight 668 pounds, said to be the heaviest woman in the world, died at Bristol, England, in November. In Ireland, Sunday, November 21, is chronicled as "bloody Sunday," because of the murders and riots, particularly in Dublin, In Utah, at the November election, of 58 candidates for the legislature, the Republicans elected 57. In Idaho, the Republicans elected 90 out of 98. Queen Mary of Great Britain trims the hats of her daughter, Princess Mary, and it is said makes a very tasteful job of it. The princess is a grown-up young lady. Jews and Catholics are developing much antagonism to each other about Palestine, according to the trend of affairs in the middle and southern European nations. John D. Rockefeller, the Philadelphia oil king, had given $475,000,000 to educational institutions up to the end of 1920, thus making beneficial use of his wealth. In Salem, Oregon, there were reported to have been 700 cases of typhoid fever, in November, in less than 10,000 population, or one person in every 13 in the city. Soviet government in Russia is developing from a mass of pure democracy of the working class to a representative government in which all classes may have a voice. 
 In China, it is computed that 20,000,000 people are famine sufferers, and parents are selling their children to anyone who will promise to keep them from starvation. Charles R. Mabey, a native of Bountiful, Utah, became Governor of Utah on January 3, 1921, having been elected in November, 1920, for a term of four years. A wave of crime, including murders, burglaries, crimes against young women, and similar atrocities, swept over the large cities of the United States the closing months of 1920. - The Greek elections in November overthrew the Venizelist party and recalled King Constantine, whom the entente allies had deposed. Constantine resumed the throne in December. In Utah and other western states, legislation is sought to check the double brevity in bathing suits. The scrimp suits worn by men bathers are more offensive than even those of women. "Psychical life is immortal," is the announcement of the German medical specialist, Carl Ludwig Sleich, in December, and he proceeds to prove it. That is the Bible teaching, from Genesis on Ancient stone relics confirming the account of the destruction of Sennacherib's army as given in the Bible (2 Kings 19, RB. C. 710), were brought from Palestine to England in November, 1920. A mail train robbery, the greatest known in the United States, was committed in Iowa in November, by three boys under the age of twenty years.. Most of the loot of $3,500,000 was recovered. Anite Erhman, 26 years of age, niece of a former president of the republic of Panama, is said to be the brightest and most influential person in Panama politics, and to be in no sense an ambitious intriguer. President Wilson accepted the league of nations invitation to arbitrate between Turkey and Armenia, but in December the Russian soviet took control of Armenia, so that this latter nation does not now exist. WORLD HAPPENINGS. 103 At Zion Vity, Illinois, the women members of the congregation who come into church in abbreviated fashionable attire are covered, by attendants, with shawls to eliminate the undue display of female charms. Terence McSwiney, lord mayor of Cork, Ireland, succeeded in starving himself to death on the 47th day of his hunger strike in a London prison, where he was confined for his connection with the Irish troubles. France, Great Britain and Italy entered into a triple alliance in November, for the preservation of each others' interests in Western Asia. This pact is claimed to be a violation of the League of Nations arrangements. President-elect Harding announced in a public address in December that he did not "think a government can be just if it does not have, somehow, a contact with the omnipotent God." See Book of Mormon, Ether 2:12. Earthquakes on December 17 and 18 took a toll of over 3,000 lives, Asia, South America, Africa, and Southern Europe, being affected. The heaviest loss, 2,000, was in China, then 500 in Argentina, and 200 in the Balkan States. France now claims that if the $46,000,000,000 German indemnity be not paid promptly, France, and possibly all Europe, will be brought down in financial ruin. Viewing Germany as the financial savior of Europe is a strange parody, with the events of the past seven years. The Sheik-ul-Islam, chief ecclesiastical authority in Turkey, has forbidden Moslem women to be seen in public with men or to be employed in an establishment with men. He also forbids all Moslems to enter into the wine trade or to make wine. The order is in the interest of morality. Judge Rutherford, of New York, president of a Bible students association, is making a world tour as a lecturer, and is announcing that the present world troubles "will end in the year 1925, and from then on this will be a new world in which millions will know perpetual life and peace and happiness on earth." He makes his computations from the Bible, with merely a supposable and manifestly uncertain starting point.