Accessories for the Thanksgiving Dinner By Lucy Rose Middleton AST year we described and gave recipes for a_ typical Thanksgiving dinner. The disnes chosen were of American origin as befits this day which is so closely connected in our minds with the arrival of the Puritans at Plymouth in 1620. This year we will not repeat from start to finish the details of a full Thanksgiving dinner, for the basis of the meal is likely to vary little from year to year. It is the accessories or "trimmings" of the dinner which are best calculated to-add dis- - tinction and grace to the result. Some of the following suggestions may help you to add the touch which distinguishes the elegant and artistic from the commonplace: Cranberry Cocktail Cook 1 quart of cranberries in 1 quart boiling water until berries pop open. Strain through a cheese cloth bag. Do not press the fruit as that tends to make liquid cloudy. To the juice add 1 tablespoon lemon juice, few grains of salt, and 3/4 cup sugar. Return to the fire and bring to a boil. Serve cold in cocktail glasess. Garnish with lemon slice. Frozen Fruit Cocktail 1 cup orange juice 1 cup grapefruit juice 1 cup apricot juice 1 cup water 1 Cup orange pieces 1 cup apricots 1 cup grapefruit 1 cup sugar Boil the sugar and water together for 5 minutes. Cool and add the fruit juices. Freeze to a mush and mix the fruit cut in small pieces. Serve in cocktail glasses and garnish with mint. Stuffed Onions Cook 6 onions in boiling salt water until tender, drain, and let cool. Remove the centers of each, being careful not to break the outside layers. Saute 3 finely chopped mushrooms in melted butter, add 11/2 cup bread crumbs, the pulp removed from the center of the onions, a few grains of salt and pepper, 1 teaspoon melted butter and enough cream to bind the ingredients together. Use this mixture to fill the centers of the onions. Bake ina buttered baking dish in a 350 degree oven until tender, about 20 minutes. Baste several times with melted butter in hot water. If a mild flavored onion is desired, change the water once or twice. Place a roasted turkey on a platter. And surround it with the stuffed onions. Oyster Stuffing for Roast Turkey 3 cups bread crumbs Y cup melted butter 1 teaspon salt 4 teaspoon pepper 1 small chopped onion 676 2 cups chopped celery 1 pint oysters Mix the bread crumbs, oysters, and melted butter and seasoning. Add enough of the oyster liquor to soften the dressing. For a large turkey this amount would have to be doubled. Harvest Salad 1 cup boiled salad dressing 1 cup creamed cheese 1 cup cream, beaten stiff 1 tablespoon gelatin Y% cup almonds, chopped 1 small can shredded pineapple ½ cup maraschino cherries 1/2 cup green grapes 1/2 cup diced apples 1/2 cup diced celery Mix the creamed cheese with the salad dressing and the whipped cream. Soak the gelatin in 1/4 cup cold water for 5 minutes, then dissolve over hot water. Add to the shredded pineapple. Set in a cool place until the mixture begins to thicken, then add the fruits, celery and nuts. Mold. Serve on lettuce and top with salad dressing and paprika. Orange and Grapefruit Salad Peel, section, and remove membrane from oranges and grapefruit. Shred pimento and break pecans. Place on crisp Romaine lettuce and serve with fruit French dressing. Fruit French Dressing Y, cup salad oil 3 tablespons lemon juice 1 tablespoon orange juice  tablespoon grapefruit juice Dash of paprika 1/4 teaspoon salt Mix all together and shake in - fruit jar before serving on fruit salad. Carrot Pudding 2 cups flour 1 cup suet chopped fine 11/2 cups brown sugar 2 cups bread crumbs 2 eggs 1 teaspoon cinnamon 1/2 teaspoon cloves 1 cup carrots, ground 1 cup currants 1 cup raisins 1 cup almonds 1/2 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon nutmeg 1 teaspoon soda dissolved in 1 tablespoon warm water Sift the spices and flour together and add the suet, crumbs, sugar, carrots and beaten eggs. Mix the raisins, currants, almonds together and add to the batter. Add the soda dissolved in the warm water last. Put into well buttered cans and steam for 3 hours. Serve with Sterling sauce. Sterling Sauce Y% cup butter 1 cup brown sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 4 tablespoons lukewarm milk or cream Cream butter and mix with sugar gradually. Then add milk (or cream) and flavoring drop by drop to prevent separation.