Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, December 1, and December 15, 1893 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMeEN OF ALL NartIOoNs'" M. ISABELLA HORNE: President Horne had the honor of belonging to the Relief Society in Nauvoo, which was organized by the Prophet Joseph Smith, and had the unspeakable pleasure of listening to the melody of his voice, giving instruction to the daughters of Zion, he having turned the key for the redemption of women.... Long and often has this woman (Sister Horne) raised her voice in exhortation, instruction and love, to her sisters, many of whom can testify that from her lips has fallen the soft word that first caused them to think, and inspired in them the desire to reach out to more glorious possibilities of intelligence and progress. Her instructions to maid, wife and mother, explaining the mission of woman, in bearing the souls of men, her duties to them, her home and her husband are beyond price. —Lydia D. Alder - THANKSGIVING We thank thee for all of life's seasons, For springtime, for winter and rain; We know that in time all thy reasons To our wond'ring souls will be plain, We thank thee for hopes thou hast given Of a life immortal and free, That beautiful respite in Heaven, When again we come unto thee. —E. R. Shipp BLACK FRUIT CAKE: Cream together one pound of brown sugar and one pound of butter. Beat the yolks and whites of ten eggs separately. Add the yolks, with one pound of seeded raisins, one pound of currants, and a half pound of sliced citron, one third of an ounce each of ground cinnamon and nutmeg, and one-quarter ounce each of ground mace and cloves, also one pound of flour that has been slightly browned. Add the whites of the eggs. Mix and beat well. Turn into a mold and bake for five hours in a moderate oven. Before using ice and decorate with candied fruit. MEXICAN ITEMS: Perhaps some of our dear brethren and sisters in more. Favored and civilized places wonder if our Heavenly Father would stoop to care for those poor exiles in this far off land, but it is so, and here in this place I have learned the sweetest lessons that the Gospel has ever taught us. Here under a lonely roof I have had an opportunity of learning to thank God for blessings, thank him for trials, and suffering.... But we will learn in the end that one blessing we never have been deprived of, and that is the tender watch-care of our eternal Heavenly Father. —S. T. Brimhall LESSON Thus anciently were holy women taught, By Christ's Apostles, great, inspired men; Today are glimpses of those lessons taught; Apostles, Prophets teach the same again. C —L. Lula Greene Richards Page 822 -. MONG the new books written ~ by women about women are the following: Willa Cather, by Elizabeth Shepley Sergeant, a memoir of the eminent novelist of the American scene; Until Victory: Horace Mann and Mary Peabody, by Louise Hall Tharp, the life story of a New England schoolteacher, sister of Mrs. Nathaniel Hawthorne, who married the great pioneer educator, Horace Mann; How Tolstoy and His Wife Lived, by their daugh-. Ter Alexandra Tolstoy, life of one of the world's greatest novelists and his wife, who could not share his dreams; Woman at Work: The Autobiography of Mary Anderson, as told to Mary N. Winslow, achievements of the Swedish immigrant girl who became director of the Women's Bureau, United States Department of Labor, and devoted her life to national and international efforts for the betterment of women workers. N September, two months before turning one hundred years old, Mrs. W. N. B. (Emily M. Phipps) Shepherd, Salt Lake City, passed away. She was the mother of ten children—all musically gifted—of whom three, Arthur, Charles, and Albert, have won national reputations. AULINE (POLLY) OLSEN, eighty-three, of Annis, Idaho,