Good Will Toward Men'"' Helen Hinckley Jones HE familiar "good will toward f= men" of the angels' Christmas song took on a new and sweeter meaning for our family the year that Emilie, a vibrant young French student, lived in our garden apartment, and all roads seemed to lead from Pensacola, Florida, to Altadena, California. When we invited Emilie to share our family Christmas, she said with real regret, "I'd love to, but I'm expecting a friend from Pensacola." "Bring him, too," Ivan, my husband, urged, knowing that a young cadet away from his beloved France | for the first time might be a little homesick for a family. At one o'clock on the morning of December 24th, an urgent chiming of our front door bell awakened us and, sleepily, Ivan stumbled to the door. I lay listening. A greeting in halting English Ivan's response in easy French (Ivan served his mission in France).... A relieved torrent of French from the stranger Acall to Emilie. Her high-pitched bubbling speech added to the men's voices. I have a listening acquaintance with French, but not at that distance nor at that speed. My curiosity practically pushed me out of bed before Ivan returned. Louis had arrived, and Emilie had directed him to Cal Tech's International House. "Why didn't you put him to bed in the guest room?" I asked. "Didn't think of it," Ivan confessed, and added, "he had a ride Page 832 back down town, anyway. He came with an American cadet on his way to Fresno." Four o'clock. Again the door bell. Again Ivan. Stumbled sleepily through the house. Again a conversation in French. Louis back? I wondered. But no. This voice was softer, younger, the accent different, the upward inflection more pronounced. Finally — footsteps mounted our uncarpeted stairs. Returning to bed, Ivan said that Jacque, another cadet, had hoped that Emilie could direct him to a French hotel. He had her name and address from Louis. Since Jacque "had no English," Ivan had felt paternal and had sent him up to our guest room. Our daughters, six and _ nine, watched Jacque at breakfast with much the same expression that they gaze through the bars at the wonderful animals in the zoo, as Ivan and Jacque—by this time Ivan and I were affectionately calling him Petit Jacque, not because he was really small, but because he seemed so terribly young — chatted and laughed and demolished a platter of pancakes and sausage. FTER breakfast we took him over to Hollywood to meet a "friend by mail" who had offered to show him the town. We gave him exact instructions for returning to us by bus, but when evening came and we had to leave for a family dinner engagement, we went reluctantly, after pinning a French note for him to the front door. "GOOD WILL TOWARD MEN" When we returned a few lines had been added to the note, giving a telephone number and an address. Ivan called the number, "Have you a French cadet from Pensacola?" "Yes. We picked him up hitch hiking from Los Angeles. We took him to your place, but you weren't home. He's waiting here for you." We drove about a mile to the address on the note. 'There was a French cadet, all right, but not our Petit Jacque. 'This cadet was older, his accent showed he was from the north of France, not the Midi, as Jacque was, and his name was Michel. He had hoped that Emilie could direct him to a French hotel. HRISTMAS Eve, and our house was a French hotel! Louis and Michel occupied my study, Jacque, the guest room. What a wonderful day Christmas was from stocking-emptying time to the bedtime carol sing around the lighted tree, with Emilie and the three French cadets from Pensacola. We heard little of French customs or politics, much of rapid 833 fire banter, gay young laughter. All over the house were lively French faces, willing French hands. Our home was their home, our country their country for this blessed day at least. When the day was over, and our girls went to bed, Jacqueline sighed. "T think we won't ever have another Christmas as good as this one!" And Sammie, with six-year-old simplicity, added, "Daddy, I knew people spoke French, but I didn't know they talked it." And as she was just about to go to sleep, "Jacqueline, don't -you just love them? They don't talk like us, but they feel like us." "Good will toward men" the angels sang. And it's easy to feel good will when people from other parts of the world are folks, not statistics, not populations. Always, I think, when France or the French are mentioned, our little girls will find it hard to believe anything ill about them. They'll think, instead, about that "very best" Christmas, when all roads seemed to lead from Pensacola, Florida, to Altadena, California. — 2 S nowf all Enola Chamberlin There is no beauty like the falling snow— No loveliness like flakes succeeding flakes Until the clouds in downy whiteness flow To earth; and distance, like a crystal, breaks Before the eyes. The hills are lost, the trees, Unpatterned shadows in a misty world, Could be great giants crouched upon their knees, Or seaweed from Sargossa oceans swirled. And it has fallen, fallen through the years, From dusk to dawn and back to dusk again, Has fallen on the laughter and the tears, The love and hate, the rise and fall of men. And now today once more quite silently It brings its beauty for the world to see.