Making Cloth Books Elaine C. Nichols mY nny MY BOOK A APPLE C) \ B BOAT yn - he F FAWN wt mother doesn't have some mementos of her children, especially from the time when they were very young, perhaps a dress, a bonnet, or a well-loved toy of some kind? In the case of toys, they are oftcn used by a second generation of children, and sometimes by even a third, as grandmother or great-grandmother brings them out. Fotu op = My own grandmother has just such treasures, and among them are some old books, worn, gray, and faded with many washings, but nonetheless enchanting for a very small child who likes to look at the pictures and name each object. Remembering from my early childhood my delight in these books, I determined to make a cloth book for my eighteen-month-old son to enjoy now, and perhaps for others to enjoy later. Since making such books I have found that they sell well at bazaars, and that they are simple enough for young girls to make to help fill honor badge requirements in Primary and Mutual. Nueces and nephews enjoy these books. So, as a gift from the heart, requiring some thought and effort, as a bazaar item, or as an idea for helping others learn creatively, try making cloth books. Materials One yard unbleached muslin Six-strand embroidery thread One set of transfer patterns Directions 1. Cut 4, 5, or 6 pieces of muslin, 16 inches by 10 inches. 2. Fold in half and crease to form center division. 3. Unfold and stamp a pattern on each section. 4. Embroider with appropriate simple stitches. 5. Fold again in half on crease with folded edge becoming the might cdge of the page. 6. Trim cut edges (top and bottom of pages) with pinking shears to form a book. 7. Sew pages at the left one-half inch from the edge. Variations A. IN MakINnc THE Book 1. The book may be pinked on top and bottom and a piece of bright-colored material one inch wide sewed down the left side to form a bright strip of material which covers the unpinked edge and makes a most attractive finish. Page 834 MAKING CLOTH BOOKS 7 835 2. The book pages may be turned wrong side out and sewed three-eighths of an inch on the top and bottom, then turned right side out, and a one-inch strip sewed down the left side when all the pages are assembled. 3. Whatever way the book is finished, put a title on the front cover, such as "My Book," "Baby's Book," "Toys, "A B C's," or "My Dolls." These little books can be washed and ironed as often as needed, and they will last and last. B. In PATTERN 1. There are many transfer patterns of animals, flowers, dolls, houses, and other objects which can be found by looking through the pattern books in stores. 2. If you are an artist draw your own objects. 3. If you're not an artist and can't find a pattern for what you want, look through your magazines until you find the picture you want and then trace it. This is especially helpful when you want a picture of a spoon, a chair, a dress, a flower, or some other simple object familiar to a child. C. In Materiats Usep 1. Objects may be made of gay prints or plain colors or combinations of these and appliqued on the muslin either by hand or by sewing machine. 2. Objects may be painted on the muslin with textile paints. 3. If the objects are simple enough in outline, bias binding or rick rack may be used. 4. Combinations of any of these may be used. > Chaisunas Giving Luella N. Adams hi Christmas losing its true significance? Originally, gifts and happiness were intended to symbolize the birth of Christ. As time has passed, this important holiday has largely become a time of celebrating and gift giving, and it has become far too commercial to many of us. Commemorating the birth of our Lord and Savior, having peace, happiness, and good will in our hearts should be the purpose of Christmas—a time to bind family and 'friends. These precious values cannot be purchased. The gifts given us by Jesus have brought more real joy to mankind than all the worldly gifts money can buy. - To many people, the Christmas season has become a time of frustration and strain, physical strain, nervous strain, financial strain. Of course, Santa Claus will always bring gifts to children, but children are often confused with too many things. Start early to prepare for Christmas, remembering "the gift without the giver is bare." A great-grandmother makes aprons all during the year for her family and friends. Think of the happy memories as she stitches, and how the aprons will be appreciated. A letter or note to friends rarely seen will bring joy. These could be written days ahead. A word of greeting written on the Christmas card gives a personal touch. In purchasing these cards remember the sacred theme of the season. ' The true spirit of Christmas comes through being generous in love and friendliness, not so much in material gifts. Most of all at this glorious season, we must not forget to remember him whose gift to all mankind was the supreme gift.