Social Service
(Fourth Week in January)
Lesson IV. TYPICAL BEHAVIOR IN CHILD GROWTH
Each child in each situation is a problem. The aim of this lesson is to help parents see clearly that they can't work by means of rules or formulae but must determine their course of action in each case by observing and interpreting the facts peculiar to each case. The importance of interpretation in such cases should be made clear to the class. The ability
684
to interpret a child in a situation is dependent in part on knowledge of general principles of child growth and development. Age is always changing. Maturity modifies all phases of child behavior.
Suggestions for Procedure: The teacher should call the attention of the class to the reading guide given below. The questions listed are answered in the reading material. Have the class do this reading before the discussion. The teacher should supplement by means of short lectures on the material given in "White House Conference 1930," pages 53-60 in which the general problem is discussed; page 62 where "mental growth" is defined. A class member may be assigned to report on the illustrative description of the four-year-old as described on page 157.
Reading guide for class members?"Growth," pp. 15-18.
1. What are the two practical uses to be made by parents of a knowledge of typical abilities manifested by children at various ages?
2. Just how does the author relate bodily and mental growth?
3. Does bodily growth generally precede by natural processes the development of nervous control of the various activities of the body?
4. Define "behavior" and "adapt" as used in the text.
5. How have the standards of behavior been determined?
6. How would you compare an individual child with the standards given? See also the supplementary material.
7. What two reasons are implied in the statement about the child feeding himself which must be considered in interpreting a child who seems not to be developing as rapidly as is indicated in the standards.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Supplementary material for class use:
I. Need for this lesson: "The new education already recognizes that the child has an inchoate, developing mind, and today vast strides are being made in fitting teaching procedures to that growing, developing mind. There is much theory, considerable investigation, and but little practice in arranging the child's life with regard to his physical development. The emotional side of the child is even less understood. There is an outstanding need for the facts of growth and development, and their relation to the adjustment of the child in the home and the school, to be in the hands of all whose lives touch the life of a child. When this happens, all education can be oriented to physical, mental, and emotional growth. The educative moment of each organ of the body will be taken advantage of and habits produced that in their sum total will finally appear as adult character." (Inskeep: Child Adjustment in Relation to Growth and Development, pp. 1-2).
II. Some Facts on growth. Physical growth is rhythmic?one part of the body grows more rapidly at one age and more slowly at other ages when other parts grow more rapidly. As each section of the body grows there is an harmonious development of all parts involved. When this harmony or rhythm of growth is upset there begin behavior problems. As growth proceeds in this way bodily proportions are different at different ages. No problem is more important for both health and behavior than the adjustment of school seating to these periods of physical growth. A class member could be asked with profit to study the local conditions of school seats and make a report to the class.
Curti describes the process briefly as follows: "The curve of general bodily growth as measured by weight and height rises regularly and steeply from three to about twelve. There is a rapid acceleration in both height and weight (the awkward age) between twelve and fourteen, which is one feature of the pre-pubertal changes that gradually result in a marked alteration of physical structure. At the same time, of course, definite and important internal growth changes are taking place. The curves for height and weight continue to rise until about seventeen, when the adult level is reached." (Curti: Child Psychology, pp. 78-79).
Height and weight tables are only indefinite measures of the normality of growth. Not too much significance should be given to them because of individual variations. Normal children will vary when measured by anatomical development from four to six years. It is very important that parents and teachers study anatomical age in making adjustments to children. Chronological age is not an index to real development.
Boys grow differently from girls. They seem to have the same periods of rapid and slow growth but these occur earlier in one sex than the other. Inskeep (pp. 18-19) presents the following table to show these differences:
HEIGHT
Boys More variable. Pubertal spurt at about thirteen years. Acceleration begins later and lasts longer.
685
Lower limbs grow most before fifteen years. At fifteen working boys taller. If growth is in normal increments before puberty it tends to be regular after puberty. Tall boys tend to become adolescent earlier than short boys. The pubertal spurt is sometimes preceded by a slight retardation in growth for height.
Girls Less variable. At seven years are a year nearer final growth. At twelve are two years nearer final growth. Average taller than boys from ten to fourteen years. Pubertal spurt at about eleven years. Acceleration begins earlier and is of shorter duration. Lower limbs grow most before twelve years. At fourteen working girls taller. Tend to reach final height earlier. If growth is in normal increments before puberty it tends to be regular after puberty. Tall girls tend to become adolescent earlier than short girls. The pubertal spurt is sometimes preceded by a slight retardation in growth for height.
WEIGHT
Boys Less variable. Heavier before six years. Heavier after sixteen years. WEIGHT
Boys Less variable. Heavier before six years. Heavier after sixteen years. Pubertal spurt in weight usually precedes the pubertal spurt in height.
Girls More variable in early years. Lighter before six years. Heavier nine years to sixteen years. Pubertal spurt in weight usually precedes the pubertal spurt in height. Increments of weight are higher from nine to thirteen years. Heavier for height.
A paragraph or two from the discussion of the table will indicate its significance: "The boy and the girl enter the primary school at the same age. Both are teething, but the girl is apt to be more nearly over the worst of the process of acquiring the first permanent teeth. By the time these children are ready for the second grade, the girl can sit longer without fidgeting because of tire, she can use her eyes longer, her muscular grasp of pencil and scissors is surer?she is a year older physically than the boy because she is a year nearer her final development. * * * The boy's writing is compared to the girl's and he is told to notice how much better and neater she does it. Her precision and quietness of movement are held up to him as a standard which he is alternately cajoled or commanded to reach. He is more immature, he tires sooner, he becomes restless, he is the naughty little boy that should be as quiet as good little Mary Jane. Some boys at this point develop a feeling of inferiority?a so-called inferiority complex?which lasts them throughout life. The majority, though, have virility enough to "start something" in the classroom. Why not show the teacher and the girls there is something, even if it is mischief, in which they can excel? Between seven and twelve, years fraught with the deepest of import for the child's future, the girl walks farther and farther ahead of the boy in her development. The schools continue to cling to the feminine standard and hold the boy up to a type of accessory muscular control and muscular coordination for which he is not yet ready. As the sexes near twelve, the problem of school discipline often becomes exceedingly acute. The boy becomes openly insolent in his rebellion, though he does not realize the cause of the trouble. The girl becomes supercilious and snippy in her superiority. She is becoming pubescent and her maturity of outlook, desire to appear well, and do the accepted thing, bring into high relief the angular, undeveloped, often slovenly boy.
"Give the boy a square deal from the
686
time he enters school. Take for granted that he will not ordinarily reach the girl's performance, so do not compare his work with hers. Nowhere in the world can comparisons be as odious as between sexes. Character, the sort that wears through life, is made best with only one kind of comparison, that with one's self. Make the classroom a place where success is possible because each boy's and each girl's work of today is compared with his or her work of yesterday, and improvement becomes a personal matter. All of this does not imply that there should be segregation of the sexes during the school years. Rather it suggests the scientific bases for a sympathetic understanding and evaluation of certain sex differences in growth during the educative period." (pp. 20-21)
III. The special problems of adolescence. The word "puberty" means the point in the development of the child when he or she first becomes capable of generation because of the maturing of the sex organs. "Adolescence" is defined as the period of growth or change from this point to maturity. The following descriptive statements are based on the discussion of this topic in Pechstein and McGregor: Psychology of the Junior High School Pupil.
The average age of puberty is the twelfth-thirteenth year among girls and the fourteenth year among boys.
The early adolescent period is marked by rapid bone and muscular growth followed by a slow growth of the trunk and general "filling-out" of the entire body.
Mental development seems to parallel physiological age somewhat closely so that school classification, recreational programs, etc., should be planned carefully in relation to physiological development.
Individualism, self expression, display, an effort to become an aggressive factor are tendencies that seem more prominent at this age.
The sex urge with its secondary
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
expressions in courtship, courtesy, parental interests, etc., is of course the center of emotional life.
Gregariousness, sympathy, kindness, and other social tendencies are expressed in participation in group activities.
New interests appear which seem to stimulate a greater activity of sensory discrimination.
The adolescent wants to know and to reason. Because of this there often seems to be an element of unpleasant independence. This is probably a misinterpretation. There is a real respect for leadership and guidance, but a refusal to accept mere dogma or general statements unsupported by facts and experience.
General intelligence matures. Future learning is an expansion of interests and the acquiring of a wealth of knowledge and analyzing life's problems by the use of the intellectual power that is developed.
Emotional disturbances are varied and intense. Enthusiasms develop rapidly. So, too, depressions and fears become marked. A natural social expression of the basic intellectual powers and physiological tendencies with sympathetic leadership will stabilize these emotions. The child shouldn't need "to fight" his way to adult rights.
IV. Heredity and Environment. An understanding of behavior as presented in this lesson implies that we know what to expect of a child at a given age. The first problem in doing this is to know how to interpret individual variations from the norms as presented. It needs to be repeated that everything studied in this lesson is in terms of averages to which the individual child will fit only approximately. The second real problem is to diagnose the child. His conformity will include both hereditary influ-
687
ences and environmental stimulations and rewards. Diet, clothing, crowding, overwork, poor ventilation, irregular sleep, no play, etc., are environmental forces that influence physical maturity. On the other hand heredity controls growth so that the rate at the beginning indicates the size at maturity.
Careful experimentations have shown (as reported in Part II of the Twenty-Seventh Yearbook of the National Society for the Study of Education) that children of marked differences in ability as measured by intelligence tests "cannot be equalized in achievement by equalization of opportunity."
"In conclusion it might be said that the final standing of an elementary-school class in relation to the other classes of the same half grade in a representative school system varies directly as the initial standing of the class is high or low, as the class is relatively over-age for the grade or under-age, as it is intelligent or unintelligent, and as it is taught by a teacher who is esteemed by her superiors or by one whose competence is not so well attested. Final achievement is a complex in which many factors are blended. Everything counts but nothing superlatively. Teachers are not miracle workers. In general, pupils and classes are not transformed in one semester or even in several. But there does seem to be a sort of differential pressure varying with the estimated ability of the teacher which, quite independently of other factors, parallels the variations in final achievement. It affects only very slightly the outcome of each semester of instruction, but its unique character suggests that the sum total of teacher influence on a given child or class would constitute very important data for the prediction of total elementary-school achievement. This uniqueness (approximate zero correlation between successive semesters or years) of teacher influence is probably the reason it is difficult to identify as a factor in achievement under ordinary school conditions of changing teachers. In general, each child or class in the course of an eight-year period is exposed to approximately average teaching ability, since there are about as many poor as
688
good teachers, and the effects of inferior instruction tend to cancel the effects of superior teaching in each individual case. Thus "quality of teaching received" is a fluctuating possession of a child or class, one almost impossible to identify, whereas intelligence and attainment-to-date, being present each year to about the same degree, are increasingly stable possessions which can be readily recognized and evaluated.
"Of all the environment influences by which we hope to improve humanity we are prone to depend most upon the teacher. Is it not significant that, as early as in the upper grades of the elementary school, if we consider only such relative achievement as actually takes place during one semester of instruction in reading comprehension, the influence of the teacher and evaluated. "Of all the environment influences by which we hope to improve humanity we are prone to depend most upon the teacher. Is it not significant that, as early as in the upper grades of the elementary school, if we consider only such relative achievement as actually takes place during one semester of instruction in reading. Comprehension, the influence of the teacher affords only a minor indication of the final standing in comparison with the influence of previous attainment and is far less important than that characteristic of each individual child (intelligence) which has attained such stability at three years of age as to justify predictions of future achievement? Nature and nurture seem to be inextricably intertwined, but he who would change markedly an individual's relative standing in school achievement by such teacher influence as has been measured here must not only begin early, but he must also insure a continuity of superior instruction."> (pp. 109) The reverse idea is also important. A child may have the ability to do, be endowed with power but if given no stimulus for expression, may even be inhibited from actually developing his power of control by parents or others. Or he may express a tendency naturally, receive an unpleasant reaction, and inhibit RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the tendency afterwards. These facts are referred to in the reading assigned for this lesson. Problem cases arise from failure to interpret childhood development. The following illustration shows how home tragedy may come from a failure to see how traits develop at puberty, though they may be somewhat delayed: "It was Hugh Norton's laziness, dirtiness, slovenliness and bad table manners which were largely responsible for the violence of his father's and mother's distaste for him?though other causes had helped to undermine their original parental love. Hugh was, they declared, an 'alien' in their otherwise congenial home; and the fact that he was making an excellent school record, was entirely honorable and truthful and had never brought the family name into any sort of disrepute, neither solaced them nor mitigated their aversion." (Sayles' "The Problem Child at Home, p. 50