Teachers' Topic
THE BEATITUDES
Aim: To enable us to more fully appreciate the Beatitudes, and to apply their beautiful truths to our daily lives.
"Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness: for they shall be filled."
The New Testament repeatedly states this doctrine. It is the doctrine that one gets what he asks for. Jesus said to his followers: "Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you." (Matt. 7:7). The blessing which is righteously desired is attained. What we really ask for, we get. We must not be satisfied with temporary values, but rather seek that which has permanent value. Then neither wealth, fame, nor knowledge can entirely satisfy the soul's hunger. "In a baffling and dimly lighted world, it is seldom that life is more than a frustrated endeavor and a blind groping. But if it be God that we are hungering and thirsting after, it is no futile quest."
The Doctrine and Covenants gives a beautiful promise which is full of comfort. "Draw near unto me and I will draw near unto you: seek me diligently and ye shall find me; ask and ye shall receive; knock and it shall be opened unto you." (Doctrine and Covenants, 88:63). "He that seeketh me early shall find me, and shall not be forsaken." (Doctrine and Covenants, 88:83).
Then the secret of our life's happiness is to want the best things and to want them with all our hearts. We must subordinate other interests and pleasures to this important quest, if we would be satisfied. We must be active spiritually if we would be "filled."
"Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven." (Matt. 5:16).
We can prove our love of God by radiating righteousness. If we really hunger and thirst after righteousness, then our duty is to do the will of Him who sent us here, and our hunger will be appeased. "He (the Master) satisfieth the longing soul," says the Psalmist, "and filleth the hungry soul with goodness."
The Master dictates His Kingdom. To those who seek it, He has given a promise, or a legacy, that they shall not seek in vain. True religion, or righteousness, is the secret of success in its broadest sense, because it means the abandonment of deceit and fraud, and the substitution therefor of the love of truth, and of the beautiful and good. It means the laying aside of sin and frivolity, and accepting in their place that which helps to build character and nobleness in one's service to God and man; it means the love of all mankind, the love of truth and right, the adoption of true Christianity. Those who hunger and thirst after righteousness in this sense shall be filled in the Kingdom of Heaven