Literature
THE DELIGHT OF GREAT BOOKS
(Third Week in January)
Sir WALTER SCOTT
"The men who have deserved well of their country are those who have set up a loftier standard for its gentlemen, who have in prosperity and adversity consistently followed the straight ways of honor, who have bestowed upon their fellow countrymen new cause to be proud of their native land, who have endeared her to other nations, or have given enjoyment to millions of her children. This is true service."?"Memoirs of the Life of Sir Walter Scott," J. G. Lockhart.
There are those who call Sir Walter Scott the wisest and greatest man of English letters in the nineteenth century. It is fitting then that during the centenary year of the death (September 21, 1832) of this great character that we make a pilgrimage to Abbotsford to pay homage and receive in return a more intelligent and sympathetic understanding of the human past.
Sir Walter Scott?Biography
The people of Scotland "gentle," or "peasant" have always thought much of ancestry, and no man was more interested in pedigree than the Laird of Abbotsford. "There are few in Scotland," says Lockhart, "who could trace their blood to so many stocks of historical distinction." A descendant from the Macdougals, one of the five oldest families in Scotland, Sir Walter Scott was not only a Scotsman but a Borderer. His forbears had always been aliens in the Highlands, the mountains northward of the Firths of Forth and Clyde, but on the mountains which separated England and Scotland the clans of Scott were the "greatest robbers and fiercest fighters among the border clans." Walter grew up when the Border was a subdued country, but he grew up with the stories of the wild deeds done by the men of his own name and blood. He let no family tradition drop: "rather he gave a sword and a cocked hat to each story," making all the world familiar with the history of a people and period which was rapidly passing to oblivion.
Walter Scott was born on August 15th, 1771, in Edinburgh. His father was a lawyer, a Writer to the Signet; his mother was a Rutherford, a woman fond of the best in literature and with a remarkable memory for history. At Abbotsford in Sir Walter's desk are six bright locks of hair of six brothers and sisters who were born and died before his own birth. Walter Scott's life-long malady, lameness, came at the age of eighteen months from an attack of infantile paralysis, which took the use of the right leg.
The making of the poet began when the lame child was sent to the grandparents' farm at Sandyknowe overlooking the Tweed and near the old peel tower of Smailholme; a district where "every field has its battle and every rivulet its song." The poet recorded the influence of these beginnings of love for his country and its history, also his passion for the beautiful countryside in the Epistle to Erskine in "Marmion":
"Then rise those crags, that mountain tower Which charmed my fancy's wakening hour.
And ever by the winter hearth, Old tales I heard of woe or mirth, Of lovers' sighs, of ladies' charms, Of witches' spells, of warriors' arms, Of patriots' battles won of old While stretched at length upon the floor, Again I fought each combat o'er."
When the boy Walter returned to Edinburgh to begin his formal education, naturally, he became the special care of his mother who encouraged him to spend his leisure in reading aloud to her. "Over and above the new delights of literature came the love of natural beauty, more especially where combined with ancient ruins."
Scott entered college in 1783 but was an irregular learner. On Saturdays he and his companions would set off with their books of romances to Salisbury Crags or Arthur's Seat. English romances could not keep them satisfied; they learned to read French and Italian so as to extend the romantic horizon. The outstanding friend of the student days was William Clerk. Together they studied law after it was decided that Walter Scott should follow his father's profession; together they assumed the "gown of advocate with all its duties and honors." For the next ten years Scott's active life was spent in the Courts of Edinburgh, because it was the desire of his father's heart. There was no force or enthusiasm behind his activities as advocate because the blood of the rover and soldier could find no means of expression.
When scarcely nineteen he met and loved Miss Stewart Belches. She loved and married another. Years went by and the vision faded into the lady of "Rokeby," of "Redgauntlet," and the "Lay of the Last Minstrel." In 1797 Scott's heart becoming "handsomely pieced" he married Miss Carpenter, of French origin.
680
Scott's married life continued for thirty years. Lockhart tells us, "Lady Scott was rich in personal attractions." Intellectual companionship she could not give her husband, but she never got in his way. Enjoying his successes and displaying fortitude during his reverses, the qualities that stand the supreme test were evident. When death removed her from his side Scott wrote in his Journal, "She was the faithful and true companion of my fortunes, good and bad." Children came to them, two boys and two girls, Sophia, Walter, Anne, Charles. Sophia early became her father's confidant. One of the delights of Scott's life was to hear Sophia sing "Young Lochinvar." Sophia became the wife of J. G. Lockhart, Scott's loving biographer.
For years Scott had been collecting the old Border ballads and the history of his loved countryside and its rough chivalry to save for literature. At the suggestion of James Ballantyne, a printer, the border tales were prepared for publication. In preparing "The Minstrelsy of the Scottish Border," Scott discovered his own power, the possibilities of his own talent. It was not long before he attempted imitation ballad writing in "The Eve of St. John." Encouraged by success, Scott began to plan an original poem, "The Lay of the Last Minstrel," a romance of chivalry. Forty-four thousand copies of this poem were sold during its author's life-time. Next Scott set himself to write a prose romance, "Waverley." When the opening chapters were submitted to Erskine, his literary confidant, the adventure was discouraged. Thus a new metrical romance was started, "Marmion," a tale of Flodden Field. In 1810 "The Lady of the Lake" was published, the best of
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
the narrative poems of Scott, for which the Highlanders took him to their heart. In 1814 he took up the unfinished "Waverley" and finished his first prose romance. In the next fourteen years twenty-three novels were written. All of these were published anonymously, partly for fear of injuring his reputation as a poet and partly for the joy of mystery. The financial success of these literary activities enabled Scott to purchase Abbotsford, a picturesque mansion. He lived there like a baron surrounded by retainers.
Financial trouble came upon Scott in 1826 through his partnership with the Ballantynes, his publishers. The liabilities were over ?100,000. Scott was not legally liable and could have allowed himself to be declared bankrupt. He set himself, however, to pay the debt. He was now fifty-five years old. Two days later he was at work on a new novel, "Woodstock." Four months after the crisis his wife, whose health had been failing for some time, died. It was a bitter trial. He left his dearly loved home and went to live in lodgings in Edinburgh so as to work harder. The rest of his life was spent "in an effort to maintain his honor as a citizen." Of the debts Scott actually paid ?70,000, the rest was covered by copyrights.
In 1830 Scott was stricken by paralysis; a voyage to Europe was made in an effort to regain his health. His return to Abbotsford in July, 1832, was marked by a loyal welcome from friends and dependents. After a few days he manfully tried to begin to work again but it was impossible. A few days before his death in a moment of consciousness he spoke to Lockhart, his son-in-law, "Be a good man?be virtuous, be religious, be
681
a good man. Nothing else will give you any comfort when you come to lie here." So died September 21, 1832, a knightly gentleman. Sir Walter Scott lies in Dryburg Abbey, where the music of the Border water fills the roofless aisles. There as the gravestone records, he was buried beside his wife, another line adds that here also "at the feet of Sir Walter Scott" lies John Gibson Lockhart.
Biographies have been called "lighthouses erected in the great sea of time." One of the greatest biographies ever written is Lockhart's "Life of Sir Walter Scott." It was not for nothing that the wise Jesuits had their young scholars read the "Lives of the Saints." There are lessons to be learned from the living of life. "Scott's life shed a light as well as a lustre on England. Every English speaking person should be familiar with his noble life."
Sir Walter Scott?Man
"Behind every book is the man." Understanding is the first thing we owe to the writer of a book. Scott's philosophy of life was Stoicism?"the noblest way of life" he calls it in his Journal. His kindliness and cheery disposition made him a lovable man. Born to be a "dweller in dreams, the historic past throbbed in his blood" crowding his life with old tales, old swords, old lances. Scott's feeling for Nature was deep and genuine. To Washington Irving he said, "If I did not see the heather at least once a year, I think I should die." He understood the human heart. He knew that goodness and badness are not geographical or social patterns but constant in human nature. His active principle of character was based on the theory that "not where men are but what they
682
do determines what they will become." Honor, loyalty, and truth were the chief elements of his religion. Believing that literature, not preaching has been the great civilizer, he taught in all his writings an appreciation of God and the world he created. In every relation of life Scott was as chivalrous as any of his knights.
Scott's latest biographer, Stephen Gwynn, closes his book thus: "He gave to the world, and he still gives, the privilege of his company; the right to be enchanted with his tales, and at the same time to drink in his love of courage, of generosity, of clemency, and of fidelity; to be instructed by his immense and varied store of knowledge, to share his delight in the force and beauty of colored speech; to partake in his wise and tolerant laughter. He will neither flout us nor lecture us, though we shall be left in no doubt upon what he holds honourable and what ignominious, and though we are more likely to learn from him how to make allowance for others than excuses for ourselves. The more one reads him, the more one reads about him, the more enviable those seem who were his friends and companions. But since no man that ever wrote had more gift for imparting his own enjoyments, we who are fortunate enough to share some of them have no need to complain."
Sir Walter Scott?Poet
"I am sensible that if there is anything good about my poetry it is a hurried frankness of composition which pleases soldiers, sailors, young people of bold and active disposition. I have been no sigher in the shades."?Scott, Journal.
Scott made his first appeal to the world as a poet. The inheritance of gypsy, rover, soldier in us responds to his
"Sound the clarion, fill the fife To all the sensual world proclaim One crowded hour of glorious life Is worth an age without a name."
In all literature there is no more beautiful dirge than "Coronach." Poetry was to Scott but the first
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
vehicle he found to carry the collection of Border tales and medieval romances which throbbed in his being. It is in the reading of the poems one catches first the full sweep of the ringing meter, it stirs the blood and the imagination and the true enjoyment comes when Scott's vitality and zest for life is caught as in?
"O! Young Lochinvar is come out of the west Through all the wide Border his steed was the best."
and?
"O listen, listen, ladies gay! No haughty feat of arms I tell; Soft is the note, and sad the lay, That mourns the lovely Rosabelle."
Sir Walter Scott considered the main end and object of poetry, music and painting to be the same; "that the powers of each of them rested not in furnishing the subjects of imagination ready dressed and served up, so much as in those happy and masterly touches which give play to the imagination, and exerted the fancy to act for itself by skilfully leading it to the formations of lofty conceptions."
Sir Walter Scott?Novelist
The novel is the modern epic, the popular form in which the life of our age is expressing itself. The novel has been widening its bounds since Defoe wrote "Robinson Crusoe." Before Scott the novel was merely a rambling adventure. Scott gave us the historical novel by making it embrace life in the past. Later Dickens made it a social record; Meredith made it a psychological study; Tolstoy gave it a social philosophy; the Russians have made it record the human soul. The novel must have all freedom if it is to reflect "All there is of life and death."
LESSON DEPARTMENT
Scott took a mass of life, medieval life, and displayed it in all its variety. His imagination nurtured by Border tales and ballads during the solitudes occasioned by lameness and his genius molded by Percy's Reliques of Ancient Poetry he became a narrator placing human passions in a halo of romance. Romance to Scott was not primarily the romance of love but the general romance of human life, of the world and its activities, and more especially the adventurous past. And so the panorama goes by knights, templars, palmers, crusaders, saints, lairds, ladies, bandits, and rovers; Saxon England, Norman England, Medieval France, and Scotland in turn form the background of the tapestry. Characters were not closely analyzed because the motive was the "pageanting of life." The greatness of Scott lay in "resting the interest of the novel on the unchanging fashions of the human heart."
Suggestions for Study
A. Materials
1. The Delight of Great Books..........Erskine
2. The Life of Scott.....................Lockhart
3. The Life of Sir Walter Scott........Gwynn
4. Private Letters of Sir Walter Scott...Partington
5. Sir Walter Scott...................Lang
6. Memoirs of Sir Walter Scott........Skene
7. The Friends of Sir Walter..........MacGunn
683
B. Projects
1. Songs of Scott set to music. a. "Soldier rest thy warfare o'er." b. "Hail to the Chief." c. "Coronach."
2. Readings. a. "Lochinvar." b. The conversation between Gurth and Wamba?"Ivanhoe," Ch. 1. c. "The Outlaw." d. "The Lay of Rosabelle."
3. Poems. a. "The Lady of the Lake." Note: Here a short synopsis of the poem could be given together with the reading of Canto III?The Gathering of the Clans.
4. Novels. a. "Ivanhoe"?a description of Saxon and Norman England. b. "The Talisman"?the story of the Crusades.
C. Suggestions.
1. The entire program could be comprised of short numbers including music, readings, a short biography, and stories from poems and novels, thus giving a broad view of the genius of Sir Walter Scott