Save the Wild Birds
By J. H. Paul

Birds are among the most beautiful and interesting of all living creatures. They are also among the most useful. Yet many species are becoming extinct, and others are rapidly decreasing in numbers.

The chief causes of this decrease are: (1) The destruction of their natural homes by the clearing of forests, draining of swamps, and cultivation of prairies; (2) the use of poison sprays which kill the insects upon which many birds feed; (3) the killing of birds by cats, both domestic and wild; (4) the shooting of birds by thoughtless persons; and (5) the robbing of nests by collectors and by mischievous boys.

What can we do to help save our birds? First, we can provide them with homes by putting up bird houses and by planting trees and shrubs that furnish food and shelter. Second, we can provide them with water for drinking and bathing. Third, we can feed them during the winter months when natural food is scarce. Fourth, we can protect them from their enemies, especially cats. Fifth, we can refrain from disturbing their nests during the breeding season.

Bird houses should be built according to the needs of different species. Some birds prefer houses with large openings, others with small ones. Some like to nest in colonies, others prefer to nest alone. The entrance hole should be just large enough to admit the bird for which the house is intended, but small enough to keep out larger birds that might drive away the rightful tenants.

Water is essential to bird life. A shallow pan or basin, kept filled with fresh water, will attract many birds to your yard. The water should be changed frequently, especially in hot weather.

Feeding birds in winter is both a pleasure and a duty. Suet, sunflower seeds, hemp, millet, and crumbs from the table are all good bird foods. The food should be placed where cats cannot reach it, and where it will be protected from snow and rain.

Cats kill millions of birds every year. If you own a cat, keep it indoors during the nesting season, or at least put a bell on its collar to warn the birds of its approach.

Never disturb a bird's nest. If you find one, observe it from a distance, but do not touch it or allow others to do so. The parent birds may desert the nest if it is disturbed.

By following these simple rules, we can all help to save our wild birds and ensure that future generations will be able to enjoy their beauty and their song.