The Peace of the Morning Maude Baggarley
======================================================================

PEACE OF THE MORNING Maud Baggarley. Oh, if only the peace of the morning Would go with us all the day, We might walk with souls undaunted All the long and solemn way; If its mystery and glory Would but linger in the heart, We might follow its high vision And with heroes there depart! Guide Lessons. LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. First Week in November A DAY OF REDEMPTION FOR THE LAMANITES. In our last lesson we told you that this is a day of fulfillment. We know that the hour of the Jew is at hand, and that his glory will soon descend upon him, and that the hour is not far distant when the law of the Lord shall go forth from Zion and his word from Jerusalem. In the same chapter of the Book of Mormon that speaks of the gathering of the Jews, in the latter days, there are also mighty prophecies concerning the remnant of the people that once covered this land. That this people are rapidly nearing the place, where they may rightly be regarded as a remnant, is evidenced in the fact that they are portrayed by artists as a vanishing race. Elder A. W. Ivins' statement of the fact that while thirty million Indians occupied Mexico, at the time of the Spanish invasion, there are no more than half that number today, is to the point. All travelers agree that the Hawaiian people are decreasing rather than increasing. The Indians on this continent have been the victims of their conquerors. In this regard, once again, we call to mind Elder Ivins' graphic account of cruelty imposed by the Spaniards on the natives of Mexico ? cruelty that beggars description, and resulted in the death of tens of thousands. Nor are we without blame in this matter, in this land of the free and this home of the brave. The famous witticism of a noted American, who said, "the Pilgrim fathers first fell on their knees and then on the aborigines," tells the tale. Nevertheless the hour of their bondage is passing, for it is decreed by our Father in Heaven that this people shall soon know who they are, and in due season be taught of the destiny that awaits them. To turn to the Book of Mormon as proof of what we have written we find: "And now the thing which our father meaneth concerning the grafting in of the natural branches through the fullness of the GUIDE LESSONS. 613 And surely the day is near at hand, when the prophecy concerning the restoration of the gospel to the Lamanites shall be fully realized. Certain it is of more than passing interest that the culminating promise, both to the Jew and the Lamanite, is practically the same. It reverts to that which the Latter-day Saints know so well, that to know God and his son Jesus, whom he has sent is eternal life, and eternal life is the greatest gift of God. When he shall reveal himself to the Jews, he shall stand upon the Mount of Olives, and show them the wounds in his hands and feet, which they shall recognize, and recognizing shall proclaim him to be their Redeemer. In the case of the Lamanites, the Book of Mormon tells us that the gospel shall be restored, that the people of Lehi shall obtain knowledge concerning their forefathers, and that they shall have a knowledge of Jesus Christ, even as their forefathers had that knowledge. One very sharp contrast exists between these people; for whereas the Lamanites are to be instructed concerning their forefathers, and be told expressly from whom they have descended, the Jews who were scattered to the four corners of the earth are not in need of such instruction. Concerning both peoples, we are led to believe that in the Lord's own due time, the gospel message will fall upon their ears as a voice that hath a familiar sound. They will accept of the gospel with a readiness that will indicate that they are to the manor born, which they are; for those who are of the blood of Israel do respond to the gospel message. Now are they confronted with the thousand perplexities of doubt and unbelief that are the plague of those who have much Gentile blood. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS. 1. Why will it not be necessary to teach the Jews of their origin? 2. What book will give the Lamanites the same knowledge concerning themselves that the Jews have been in possession of through all their wanderings? 3. Compare the condition of the American Indian today with his condition when America was discovered. 4. Which condition do you think the Indian prefers? 5. Relate any stories that you may know concerning Indians that would lead to the belief that they are capable of high spiritual, intellectual and artistic achievements. 6. Give the names of as many pieces of sculpture from Mr. Cyrus E. Dallin depicting Indian character as you can possibly recall. 7. Suppose the United States government believed the In- 614 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. dian to be a descendant of Joseph, do you think it would in any way affect its dealings with these people? 8. Tell some Indian story that will redound to the Indian credit. 9. Is there anything in the way that the people of the Hawaiian and Samoan Islands have accepted the gospel to lead us to believe, that in due season the American Indian of the entire continent will accept the gospel? 10. Make a summary of the prophecies and promises in relation to the Lamanites, found in the passages in your lesson quoted from the Book of Mormon. LESSON II. Work and Business. Second Week in November. LESSON III. Genealogy. Third Week in November. SCANDINAVIAN SURNAMES. Many of our faithful and superior Saints are descendants of Scandinavian ancestors. Indeed, when we study into this question we discover that all of the Anglo Saxon races, and perhaps the Celtic races, at least one side of the Celtic race, have all descended from Scandinavian or what is called now the Nordic races. The Latter-day Saints feel sure that all of these races either descended from the ten tribes themselves or that the seed of the original tribes who scattered into the north country was left in the Scandinavian or Nordic races as the tribes passed on their way into the north country. So that it is both interesting and instructive to study a little about the origin of the Scandinavian people and to inquire as to their methods of surnaming. The surname customs followed largely those of other Anglo Saxon races. The people nick-named their children. They gave them sire names, trade names, place names and official or descriptive names. They used suffixes and affixes while also they gave at times heraldic surnames. GUIDE LESSONS. 615 The confusing custom adopted by the peasants of calling the child by his or her father's first name and adding son or sen to it gives people the erroneous idea that they did not use any other surnames. The difference between that custom and the custom which obtained in Scotland was that the Scotch took the first name of the founder of the clan and then added Mac which means "of the clan" to all the descendants while the Scandinavians called the child by his first name adding the father's name with son added to it for each generation. Lars Jens-son would be the son of Jens but Lars's son would be called Hans Lars-son or sen, so that each time the surname or sire name was changed. Not until the year 1820 by a royal decree were surnames made obligatory and hereditary in Scandinavia. The Danish registers are quite as complete and easy to follow as the parish records of any other country. The tables given in the Surname Book of the Scandinavian kings furnish the basis of all Anglo Saxon descendants. QUESTIONS. 1. Who are the Anglo Saxons? 2. What is the difference between Scandinavian and Anglo Saxons? 3. Who were the Normans? 4. Who were the Celts? 5. What surname customs were followed among the Scandinavians? 6. What about the parish registers? 7. From whom are the Scandinavians descendants? 8. Give one of the tables found in the Surname Book? (Chap. 28.) Note. Have the class write down all Scandinavian names in the Society or the ward, with explanation as to origin and development of surname. SURNAME BOOK. The General Board have a few more copies of the Surname Book which we will now be willing to dispose of to individuals. They will soon be out of print, and then if wards do not have one, or individuals who are interested in Genealogy have none, there will be considerable loss and distress when the books are needed and not to be obtained. We suggest that all wards and interested individuals purchase them at once. 616 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. LESSON IV. Home Courses. Fourth Week in November. Thrift in the Home. One of the most important lessons learned by American women during the recent world war is the value of thrift in household management. In spite of their loyalty during the war, however, the American woman has yet much to learn about habits of thrift. Perhaps in no other one thing has she erred to the extent that she has in extravagance and general wastefulness. She lives in a country where it is comparatively easy to earn money and as a result, spends it without thought. To correct the habits of thoughtless expenditure, becomes now the home problem in the period of reconstruction. The United States Government has learned so thoroughly the great importance of the cooperation of the women that it has asked that steps be taken through the government agents, to assist the homemakers of the country to place the income and expenditures of the home on a business basis. It is hoped thus to establish thrift habits. Political economists hold that women control the expenditure of nine-tenths of all the money earned. It is also said that, because of our unbusiness-like methods, millions of dollars are wasted annually. It is an established fact that a business that is not well organized and managed according to business principles will fail. Now, it must be so likewise with the business of the home. If women control the expenditure of nine-tenths of all the money earned, it must be conceded that her responsibility is tremendous. Her business cannot be carried on in an indifferent, careless manner and meet other than failure. Business men all over the world know that foresight, system, the following of a budget, and the keeping of accurate accounts, make for success. Thrifty housewives also know from experience that the same principles hold for success in the business of the home. Hence the necessity for every household's making a budget and keeping a simple yet accurate system of household accounts, no matter what the income may be. If this is done it will help in eliminating work and anxiety and will make possible a saving of time and money. In this unusual time, when incomes are by no means increasing in proportion to the cost of living, and when there are so many de- GUIDE LESSONS. 617 mands on money that no income seems large enough to meet them, the housewife must adopt business methods in spending the income if she is to succeed in her chosen work and do her part in the reconstruction of the world. The object of the budget is to establish a working method of conservation of materials. At the same time the saving of health and energy must be emphasized by teaching the principle that "economy no more means saving money than it means spending money. It means administration of the house, its stewardship, spending or saving, whether money, time or anything else, to the best possible advantage." The handling of the income has in many families been the cause of serious misunderstandings. Young people starting out in life have no definite plans for the disbursement of the family funds. Too often they go into debt, expenses pile up, the funds are exhausted, and all is chaos. A plan for handling the money might have saved the situation. Such a plan is a budget. A budget is a planning in advance of expenditures in proportion to the income. In far too many households this is a mystery; expenditures are not planned ? they just happen. We have fat days and lean days, days of plenty and days of want. Christmas and holiday expenditures, sickness, accidents, and misfortune, lessen the days of plenty and add to the general worry of the family with a limited income. A budget planned under ideal conditions would find the father and mother and the children gathered around the table. The total income of the family would be determined. Then by mutual consent, they would make the general division of the income, and prepare the budget. There can be no fixed classification of household expenditures any more than there is a fixed standard of living for everyone. What seemed to be luxuries in the homes of our grandmothers are necessaries of the present generation. It is certain that in America standards of living are constantly rising. However, in dividing the income the first consideration is the food for the family. No matter what the income, the family must at least have sufficient food to meet the needs of the body. It is true economy to purchase foods that will keep the body well and in repair, and furnish it with energy with which it may do its work. An electric or gas engine will stop work as soon as it is out of repair or the source of energy is shut off. The human body also must be nourished and kept in repair and supplied with energy. While there are many ways in which one can economize in furnishing food for the family, one must not economize to a fault. So the first division of the income must be an adequate allowance for food. On very limited incomes say one hundred dollars a month for a model family of father, mother and three chil- 618 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. dren under fourteen years of age, the amount required would range from forty to fifty per cent, according to the present day prices. This amounts to one-dollar sixty cents daily or an average of ten and two thirds cents per meal. This amount will allow only for the necessaries of nutrition. There are no luxuries, no foods out of season, and only a very limited variety. The next consideration is shelter. According to some standards, a good home with furnishings beyond one's income would seem to add more to the family comfort than perhaps a more liberal food allowance. Such a family would economize to a fault in their food, and perhaps in their clothing, in order to secure a more attractive home. The safest division would allow from fifteen to eighteen per cent of the income for shelter. In cases where the family is buying a home the monthly payments may in safety reach twenty-five per cent of the income. The third division of the budget would be an amount set aside for clothing. It has been determined that fifteen per cent of the income almost invariably meets the needs of the clothing budget. This department of household expenditure offers many opportunities for economy. Many thrifty homemakers manage this department nicely on ten per cent of the income. Careful buying, remodeling, renovating old materials, and proper care of clothing afford many opportunities for cutting down expense. On the other hand, attempting to follow the prevailing fashions, gives no end of trouble to the family of limited income. The fourth division of the budget concerns the operating expenses. Operating expenses should be held down to from ten to twenty per cent of the income. Fuel, light, telephone and wages must all come out of this division. In many cases it will eliminate everything but light and fuel. It would be well, however, if a greater effort were made to keep ice during the warm months as it is a real economy in that it is a means of preserving food and making it possible to keep milk on hand for the children. In my home visits during the summer, I have found the majority of families using condensed milk because they had no ice. A division for incidentals must also be provided in the budget, since every family must meet the unexpected. In this division we place doctors', dentists' and oculists' bills; gifts such as Christmas, wedding, or birthday, lawyers' fees, and other unclassified expenses. This amount should if possible be held down to from five to ten per cent. The sixth division is that of the so-called Higher Life. Higher Life expenditure includes money spent for education, books, magazines, music, Church, charities, and amusements. The amount is usually out of necessity kept down from ten to fifteen per cent. Typical Budgets follow: GUIDE LESSONS. 619 Income $100.00. Food 40 or $40 Rent 20 or 20 Clothing 15 or 15 Operating 10 or 10 Incidental 10 or 10 Higher Life.... 5 or 5 Income $150.00 Food 30 or $45.00 Rent 15 or 22.50 Clothing 15 or 22.50 Operating 15 or 22.50 Incidental 10 or 15.00 Higher Life 15 or 22.50 Neither of these budgets has a special heading for savings, but every well organized home will lay up for a rainy day. It may be a few cents saved from the food budget, or the clothing budget, or some one of the other departments. While it is impossible to say that a family income will permit of any stipulated amounts being set aside as savings each month, it is absolutely necessary that every family save. It may be through a building society, an endowment insurance policy, war savings stamps, or liberty bonds. Questions. Who are the chief money-spenders in the home? What is the budget system? What would you call necessities? What are luxuries? How do you divide your income? What proportion should be spent for food? For clothing? For tithing and donations, For amusements? What is thrift? Globe Optical Company SALT LAKE'S LEADING OPTICIANS Established 25 Years. Phone Wasatch 5309. 11 EAST 2ND SOUTH. SALT LAKE CITY. NEKTO The Family Drink Drink it at Meal Time People are just coming to realize the value of a good drink at meal-time. If the drink is the right kind it adds greatly to the enjoyment of the meal. Nekto is really a meal-time drink. It tastes better than at any other time and being food as well as drink is properly a part of the meal. Try it in your home. Order a case from your grocer or druggist and enjoy your meals more than ever. CULLEN ICE & BEVERAGE CO. Salt Lake. Z. C. M. I. Factory School Shoes Made on the Munson Army Last or the English Toed School Shoes FOR BOYS, YOUTHS, LITTLE GENTS Ernest Lambourne SALT LAKE'S LEADING FLORIST 67 South Main Phone Was. 7516 Salt Lake City EVERYTHING FOR ELECTRICITY - AUTOMOBILE ACCESSORIES 51 EAST FIRST SOUTH WAS. 6760 Your Photographs Should Come From AMUNDSEN 249 MAIN STREET Better Work Because Better Equipment Established 1877: Phone, Was. 1370 STAR PRINTING CO. SUPERIOR PRINTING 35 P. O. PLACE SALT LAKE CITY THE BRUNSWICK-BALKE-COLLENDER CO. Carom and Pocket-billiard Tables for the home. Beautifully illustrated "Home Magnet" catalog furnished on request. 55-59 West South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah "DELIVERED EVERYWHERE" Ice Cream Special attention given to parcel post candy orders P. O. Box 1713 Salt Lake City Gospel Doctrine Selections from Sermons and Writings of President Joseph F. Smith. The Utah State National Bank The Melchizedek Priesthood Quorums have adopted GOSPEL DOCTRINE as a text for class study for the next two years. BANK OF UTAH SALT LAKE CITY Promises quick and efficient service. It contains 700 pages, with a photogravure Frontispiece and autograph of President Smith. Officers: Heber J. Grant, President Wm. R. Wallace, Vice President Henry T. McEwan, V. Pres. and Cashier Alvin C. Strong, Assistant Cashier Handsomely bound in cloth, $1.50 postpaid. Get the "Guide" to go with it. Price 15c. DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE 6 MAIN STREET The Utah Agricultural College (The Home of the efficient education) Announces its fall opening for SEPTEMBER FIFTEENTH Link up your ambition with a valuable training and prepare for a successful career. The following professions offer lucrative positions to women. Select your profession. The U. A. C. will prepare you to fill it. Home Economic Expert Home Maker Typewriter Institutional Manager Milliner Smith-Hughes Worker Teacher Musician Stenographer Dress Maker Bookkeeper Dietitian Nurse Rural Health Expert Cafeteria Manager Social Worker Office Manager Accountant Home Demonstrator Degree and vocational courses offered in the schools of: AGRICULTURE AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERING MECHANIC ARTS HOME ECONOMICS COMMERCE AND BUSINESS GENERAL SCIENCE ADMINISTRATION The annual catalogue is now ready. Write for it and for the Beautiful Art Booklet. Address The President's Office, Desk H, Utah Agricultural College, Logan, Utah. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Be thankful, O, my soul! For life, for partial health, for shelter, food and raiment. For friends, for friendly enemies, for the discipline of failure. For work; for the ability to work, the desire to work, and for opportunity to work. For a faith in God, in His Son, Jesus Christ, and faith in the mission and calling of the Prophet Joseph Smith! Be thankful, O, my soul, be thankful every daily hour, for life, for death and for the resurrection, O, be thankful! Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints No. 29 Bishop's Bldg, Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year? Single Copy 10c