6 EDITORIAL WELCOME, JUNE! AN old-time story relates that Father Time sends into his storehouse at the beginning of each year twelve persons who are to select the things they desire to bring with them when they come to earth. Thus each month comes laden with rich gifts. June brings Father's Day, Flag Day, a bevy of happy brides, vacations, beginnings of delightful trips on sea and land, a host of graduates who are told and feel that upon their shoulders rests the responsibility of setting the world right. June is a month of joy, of forward-looking thoughts, a time of beginnings, and so we heartily welcome her and give thanks for the wonderful gifts she brings. FATHER'S DAY ARS. J. B. DODD of Spokane, Washington, writer of legends, well-known as the creator of '"Children of the Sun," tribal studies of the American Indians, has the distinction of originating 'Father's Day. She started promoting the idea in 1910 as a tribute to her father, William G. Smart, a Grand Army of the Republic Veteran, who had reared his children after their mother's death. She launched the movement in Spokane by presenting a petition to the Ministerial Association of Spokane "urging such constructive teaching from the pulpit as would point out the importance of a father's place in the home, concerning the protection of womanhood and children, training of children and safeguarding the marriage tie." It was four years before Congress recognized the day. Its celebration has been of slow growth. While the newspapers helped by giving the movement publicity, they at first treated the idea rather facetiously. They said, "father's main duty in life is to pay the bills and crank the Ford." Now the day, the third Sunday in June, is coming to be more widely celebrated each year. The red and white rose is chosen as suitable flowers.. Telegrams, letters, visits, gifts to father, while not as numerous as those to mother, are constantly increasing in number. 400 S° many think fathers do not care for words of praise, appreciation and love. What a mistake! They are thrilled when their own children honor them. They are deeply moved when expressions of gratitude and love reach their ears. We hope every reader of our Magazine will do all possible to increase the expressed appreciation to fathers. May they be lovingly remembered not only on this day set apart in their honor, but every day may their children not only by word but also by living worthy lives honor their fathers who have so willingly toiled and sacrificed for the wellbeing of their sons and daughters.