[Vol3 | June 1916 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Granite Stake Relief Society Cantata]
Granite Stake Relief Society Cantata. The Granite Stake Relief Society gave so unique and so charming an entertainment on their Annual Day, that they were invited by the General Board to repeat the whole program on the evening of April 5th, that our visiting stake officers might attend in a body as the guests of our Board. So inspiring and original was the conception, so pleasing and successful were the results, that our readers will be glad to hear the whole story. The original inspiration came to the President of the stake, Mrs. Leonora Taylor Harrington, about a year ago, when she called her workers together and asked them to prepare an entertainment that should be descriptive of the origin and growth of the Relief Society. Many ideas were suggested, but the plan of writing a cantata, to be accompanied by a set of historic tableaux to be given by each ward, was finally adopted. We give here the program PROGRAM ANNIVERSARY DAY. 1. Selection Orchestra Invocation. 2. Cantata, "The Opened Door"...Relief Society Organisation. Words, written and arranged by Lucy M. Green Music composed by Ida H. White and Lucy M. Green. 1 The Story Mrs. Louise Y. Robinson 2. Organ Prelude, "Darkness" Ida H. White 3. Chorus, "For behold, darkness shall cover the earth"... Relief Society Choir 4. Chorus, "The Lord Shall Arise" Choir 5. Solo, Soprano, "Arise, Shine, for Thy Light is Come"... Mrs. Luella F. Sharp 6. Solo, Contralto, "The Key is Turned"...Miss Violet Felkins 7. Trio (double), "With Heavenly Inspiration" Mrs. Myrtle Doelle, Miss Annie Woodbury, Johanna Goebel, Miss Pearl White, Miss Theresa Horne, Violet Felkins 8. Solo and Chorus, "Blessed is he that considereth the poor" Mrs. Sharp and Choir 9. Soprano Recit., "Kindness, Love, Charity" Mrs. Luella F. Sharp 10. Duet, "Gentle Words" Mrs. Myrtle Doelle, Miss Annie Woodbury 11. Duet, "The Glory of God is Intelligence" Miss Johanna Goebel, Annie Woodbury
