Finland WHEN, on June 25, 1944, pro-German Risto Ryti, president of F inland, and Pre. Mier Edwin Linkomies, without the approval of Parliament, officially announced that an agreement had been reached with German Foreign Minister Joachim von Ribbentrop and Field Marshal General Wilhelm Keitel, as a result of which complete collaboration between the two count the Republic precarious, if not hopeless. For, as a result of this denouement, the Finns not only find themselves estranged from and at War with their erstwhile friends and admirers, but Practically precluded from the Possibility of negotiating any satisfactory peace with Russia. Furthermore, as an open ally of the Nazis, it is not expected that the Allied Powers, even if inclined to do so, will be able, at the future Peace Conference, to convince the Soviet Union that complete national restored. The crisis caused a mild revolution in Finland itself, which resulted, on August 1st, in the deposition of Risto Ryti and in the election of the aged, but colorful, Baron Carl Gustaf Mannerheim as his successor,: By its decision Nazi leaders, the neighbors, a hatred which dates back to the seventeenth century when the people fear that without the active Support of some strong power, that their country will be occupied by the Red Army, that the elite of the country will b and Asiatic Russia, just as the elite of the Baltic states of eastern Poland regardless of the justice or injustice of its Cause, the fact remains that the unhappy Republic is caught pitifully between the h lemma. Regardless of the outcome, the continued existence of the country as an independent, national state is seriously threatened. FINLAND a CZECHOSLOVAKIA ARCTIC OCEAN RUSSIA POLAND — —Drawing by Evan Jensen FINLAND In order to understand clearly the implications of the present Russo-Finnish War, it will be necessary to review, in some detail, the tragic nine-hundred- year Finnish struggle for independence. But, first, let us tur our attention to an examination of the topography and resources of this interesting country. Modern Finland contains an area of 147,761 square miles. The population in 1938 was 3,834,662. The country is bounded on the north by Norway; on the east by the Russian provinces of Arhangel and Olonetz; on the south by the Gulf of Finland; and on the west by the Gulf of Bothnia, Sweden, and Norway. The surface is a labyrinthic mixture of land and water; and the seacoast, especially in the south and southwest, presents the same succession of fiords and rocky headlands that characterizes the coasts of Norway and Sweden 622 The coast is studded with innumerable small islands and rocks called skar. These render navigation extremely dangerous, especially in the Gulf of Bothnia. The lakes occupy about twelve per cent of the total area, and the marshes, twenty per cent, so that Finland is more abundantly supplied with water than any other country in the world. The greater portion of the interior of Finland is a vast tableland, averaging in height from 350 to 4oo feet, and interspersed with hills of no great elevation. Immense forests cover one-half of the country. These consist chiefly of pine, spruce, fir, and birch. Although extending far north into cold latitudes, with a rugged climate and topography, Finland is an agricultural country. The principal crops are rye, barley, oats, potatoes, and hay. Lumbering is the most important industry. Cattle breeding is successful on account of the many natural meadows, the good pasturage, and abundance of water. Finland produces considerable quantities. Of iron, tin, copper, lime, granite, marble, and quartz. The chief exports in the order of their importance are: lumber, pulp and paper, leather, hides, iron ore, matches, ammunition and other explosives. The chief imports are: metal goods, machinery, textiles, and spices. A unique co-operative system has worked successfully throughout Finland for forty years. In 1939, there were more than 7,000 co-operatives with a total membership of 9,000. These societies handled about twenty-five per cent of the retail and forty per cent of the wholesale trade of the country. EFORE 1919, Finland was attached to Russia as a grand duchy. The Czar was recognized as grand duke and controlled the foreign affairs of the country; but, so far as internal affairs were concerned, save for the period from 1897 to 1919, the country functioned as an independent, autonomous state. The Constitution of Finland dates from the year 1788 and is based, besides, upon the pledge of Czar Alexander I in 1809 (when Swedish Finland was annexed to Russia), renewed by his successors, and upon the decree of the Diet in 1869. These guarantees were later set aside by Czar Nicholas II (1894-1914). The government of the country and the administration of justice under the Constitution were carried on by the Imperial Senate for Finland. This consisted of eighteen members appointed by the Czar and presided over by the governor general of Finland. Until 1897, all administrative appointees, including even the governor general were native Finns. The legislative function was exercised by the Czar and a Diet or Seim, without the consent of which no law could be decreed or repealed, no taxes imposed, nor soldiers levied. The Diet met every five years. It consisted of representatives from four classes or estates: the nobility, the clergy, the bourgeois, and the peasantry. The nobility were drawn from the heads of noble families, admitted into the House of Nobles; the other deputies were separately elected from their respective orders. The official language was Swedish. For administrative purpose, Finland was divided into eight lans or governments. The lans were divided into harads or districts, and these in FINLAND turn into parishes or communes, of which there were 480. To these were entrusted the management of local affairs. The administration of law lies, in the first place, with the Senate; in the second place, with the high courts established at Abo (modern Turku), Nikolaistad, Wasa, and Viipuri (modern Viborg); and, finally, with the district courts in the country and the municipal courts in the towns. The constitutional provisions enumerated above made Finland, until the days of Nicholas IT (1894-1914), the freest and best-governed portion of the Russian Empire. The established religion is Evangelical Lutheran. It was probably at the end of the seventh century that the Finns took Possession of what is now Finland. The newcomers found the Lapps residing in the country, The intruders seem not to have had any centralized governmental organization, but to have lived in separate communities and villages, independent of each other. These early Finlanders seem to have been both brave and troublesome to their neighbors; and their repeated attacks on the coast of Sweden drew the attention of the kings of that country. As a result, Kin Eric IX, accompanied by the Bishop of Upsala (an Englishman), and a considerable army, invaded Finland, in 1157, conquered the people, converted the country into a Swedish province, and baptized many into the Christian Church. The work of the Bishop of Upsala was long re-. Membered, and after his death he was canonized as St. Henry. Today, he is revered as the patron saint of Finland. The brilliant evangelical work of St. Henry was followed up by a second English bishop by name 623 of Thomas, who is said to have almost succeeded in detaching the country from Sweden, and forming it into a province, subject only to the pope at Rome. The conquest of Finland by Sweden provoked an almost continuous series of wars with Russia. These were all indecisive. However, in 1323, it was agreed that part of east. Em Finland should be attached to Russia, with the river Rajajoki as the boundary. The Reformed Lutheran religion was introduced into Finland in 1528, by King Gustavus Vasa of Sweden. King John III, his successor, raised the province into the dignity of a grand duchy. King Gustayus Adolphus, about 1600, established the Diet of Finland, a representative political body composed of four orders: the nobility, the clergy, the bourgeois, and the peasantry. This brilliant Swedish monarch also did much to develop culture in Finland by founding schools and gymnasia, building churches, encouraging learning, and introducing printing. ETER the Great was the first Russian Czar to challenge seriously Sweden's title to Finland. In 1710, he managed to obtain Possession of the towns of Keksholm and Villmanstrand. Within. Six years (1710-1716), despite the brilliant defensive efforts of King Charles XII of Sweden, the entire duchy came into his power. By the Treaty of Nystadt (1721), the province of Wiborg, comprising the entire eastern half of Finland, was ceded to Russia. The Swedes attempted to recover the ceded province, but were disastrously defeated: and, in 1743. By the Treaty of Abo, were forced to cede additional territory, including the important cities of Villmanstrand and Fredrikshamn. 624 In 1788, King Gustavus III, as already noted, gave to Swedish Finland those fundamental laws, incorporated into a formal constitution, by which the people are still essentially governed. In 1807, Napoleon concluded with Czar Alexander I the famous Treaty of Tilsit, negotiated on a raft in the river Niemen. "Hardly an inch of Russian soil was exacted—only a promise to co-operate in excluding British trade from the continent." Tilsit destroyed the Third Coalition, and made Napoleon master of the continent. Only Sweden and Great Britain remained under arms against him, and against the former he was able to employ both Denmark and Russia. Early in 1808, a Russian army crossed the Finnish border without any previous declaration of war, and simultaneously a Danish force prepared to invade Sweden from the Norwegian frontier. The ill-starred Swedish king, Gustavus IV, found it was all he could do, even with British aid, to fight off the Danes. Thus, left alone and unsupported, Finland was quickly overrun by Russians, and as a result, in 18009, Sweden was forced to cede the whole of Finland, including the Aaland Islands, to Russia. However, thanks to the generosity of Czar Alexander I, Finland did not enter Russia as a conquered province, but as a semi-independent grand duchy, with the Czar as grand duke. Alexander I also issued a manifesto in which he pledged to preserve the religion, laws, and liberties of the conquered country. This pledge was kept until the autocratic regime of Czar Nicholas IT (1894-1914). The old Russo-Finnish province of Wiborg (ceded to Russia in 1721) was reunited to Finland in 1811. In 1821, the seat of government was removed from Abo (modern Turku) to the present capital, Helsinki. The Diet which had not met for fifty-six years was convoked by Czar Alexander II in 1863, and has met every five years since. During the latter part of the nineteenth century, and especially during the reign of Czar Nicholas II (1894- 1914), Pan-Slavism, an intense Russian nationalistic movement, was inspired by journalists, patriots, and agents of the central government. The Pan-Slavic program sought: (1) to Russify the Russian Empire, that is, to introduce among _ the heterogeneous parts of the Empire, the language and institutions of Greater Russia; and (2) to extend this influence eastward and southward into Asia, and westward and southward into the Balkans. It became an asserted policy of the Pan-Slavists, therefore, to sympathize with and encourage the aspirations of Slavic peoples against Turkey, in Bulgaria, Serbia and Montenegro—not as a movement to annex these states but to establish Russian protectorates over Slavic autonomies. The Franco-Russian Alliance (1894) was meant to curb anti-Slavic policies of the Teutonic nations. The Pan-Slavic institutions which the government sought to perpetuate and universalize within the Empire were the Russian language, the Orthodox Church, agricultural rural communities, and political autocracy. The aim was to establish "one law, one language, one religion." Special efforts to Russify Poland, Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania were FINLAND made by substituting Russian for German place names, making the teaching of the Russian language compulsory in the schools, forbidding the teaching of German, suppressing free Speech, enacting prejudicial legislation against the hapless Jews and encouraging pogroms against them, and, finally, by adopting regulations which favored the Greek Orthodox at the expense of € Roman Catholic and Lutheran religions within the Provinces, Nicholas I] (1899) replaced all Finns by Russians in the government service, in constabulary subordinate to the Russian military organization, and practically converted the grand duchy into a Russian Province by decreeing that all Fj henceforth need be submitted to the Finnish Diet. Needless to say, the above measures were vigorously Opposed by the inhabitants of Poland, Finland, and the Baltic Provinces. Against all Opposition, however, the tireless and vigorous Plehve, Russian Minister of Interior, kept up an effective fight. Illegal arrests and banishments resulted. Newspapers and radical Periodicals were ruthlessly suppressed. In fact, any person in the disaffected provinces was liable to be apprehended by the police and imprisoned by governmental order who was merely suspected of harboring anti-Russian, liberal, or socialist opinions. 625 Taking advantage of the revolutionary unrest within Russia in 1905, occasioned by the unpopular Russo. Strike as a protest against Russian tule. Railway, steamship, telephone, were suspended. “Helsingfors (modern Helsinki), the capital of the grand duchy restored the Finnish Constitution, The strike ceased power of the Finnish Diet just preceding the outbreak of World War I, in 1914, aroused the liveliest apprehension in Finland.. He Finns, as well as the other subject nationalities of the Russian empire, including the Poles, Jews, recognition of national tights and self-determination. Russian Revolution of March 1917 destroyed the old Russian Czardom, the Finns were determined to free themselves entirely from union with (Continued on Page 639)