the prince of Ur, Patriarch Terah. Release this poor corpse, and let us give you money for a decent burial." The officer, himself none too intelligent, sat upon his horse, stupidly annoyed, thus to be interrupted in his official duties. A bit of human carrion, more or less, mattered little to him, but the interruption of his regular official duties was so unusual that he was quite at a loss how to proceed. Without replying, he rode back towards the city a few paces and, as his eye caught the figure of two well-known foreign merchants, he called out. "Javanu! here, this way. See, here are three wenches who say they are from the Palace of Terah, and they are asking for decent burial for this dirty slave, just dead in the market-place. What say you?" The man appealed to came trotting up, wide-eyed with curiosity, and the moment his eyes were clapped upon the three maidens, he shouted, "Daughters of Azzi-jaami. what luck to meet you here in the very outskirts of Ur — " "What ho, merchant," cried the officer angrily, "I have no time to listen to your wide-mouthed greetings to these daughters A PRINCE OF UR. . 331 of the house of Terah. Answer me my question, if you can. Are they what they claim to be?" "Who but a stupid clown of a guard would fail to recognize the pillars of polished ebony which grace the courts of my great friend Terah's dwelling? These are surely free-born daughters of the tribe of Terah." "But for the money," cried the officer rudely, "what money have you? Quick, for the people press about, and the carrion must be thrown under ground speedily or it will cause disease." The girls each emptied her small store of ready coins into the hands of the rapacious officer, but he still grumbled and cursed, under his breath, for the two merchant travelers had passed on down the road. The officer was about to order the cart to move onward when a tall form pushed through the crowd now gathered around the funeral procession, and Abram, with a little black child trotting at his heels, walked quickly up to the group beside the cart. The populace fell away in silent respect as the prince approached the cart, and even the officer touched his helmet and sprang from his horse to stand as the prince passed him. "What is it, daughters of Azzi-jaami? Why do you linger here?" "See, my lord," and they drew the covering from the bloated face of the murdered slave girl. "Ah," and Abram groaned as he saw the face. "Who is this?" They told him. Without more words, he told the driver of the cart to turn towards the upper end of the hills. He put money into the hands of the officer and sent him forward to purchase needed funeral supplies. He turned to the girls, and asked them sternly, "How has this thing come about? Can it be possible that this is the poor slave Mardan slew this day?" "It is the lord Mardan who hath wrought this wickedness," said Argob, the second daughter. "He was soon weary of the sister of our mother, and sold her into slavery to a merchant of Ninevah. It is only today that she returns, and behold!" "Thou hast much to do, Prince Abram," said the officer who had lingered near, "to answer for the crimes committed under thy father's roof-tree. Mardan hath more arms than the Goddess Mylitta and hath wasted more women than the God Merodach." "Doth thy father know that you are thus abroad in the streets of the city?" asked Abram, who knew the close guardianship put upon these comely maidens by their jealous father. "Nay, we have been led by the sorrow of our hearts rather than the wisdom of our heads." Abram said no more. But he walked slowly onward to the far northern slopes of this long sepulchral hill, and before fol
 lowing him, the three maidens stooped to the road and throwing sand upon their heads, they cowered in the folds of their abayas, and followed Abram with the black baby at his heels, all three of them walking along with swaying bodies and uttering the shrill minor wailing cries for the dead. The baby put up his arms for Abram to carry him, for the quivering notes of that minor wail now shrilled along a high nasal key or muttered in half-vocalized words, then dropping to a low tone, still in weird minor sounds, — chilled the baby's very soul, while it echoed down the crowded roadways and all the passersby made way silently and respectfully for the queerly assorted mourning party. The officer dropped away from them as they walked onward, but Abram led the strange procession with unchanged brows. It was fully an hour later when they reached one of the many little embalming shops close beside the better class of sepulchers, and here Abram ordered the body cleansed and prepared for speedy burial; while outside, the three sisters sat upon the hot pavements and wailed in true oriental fashion for their deceased relative. The baby was their own half-brother, but he would not venture near them while they were pouring forth their minor chants and wild wailing cries, for he was frightened; so he kept close beside his master's heels, secure in that great protection which all helpless, hopeless things felt when Prince Abram was near. At length the body was ready. A dozen hired wailers had joined the girls upon the sands, and the procession made its slow, and now respectable way up to a fairly decent cave or sepulcher — the wailers howling dismally —wherein were chambers divided into receptacles for the respectable moneyed class of the city's dead. And here the poor dead slave was placed, on a long ledge or shelf, laid upon her rig-ht side, and Adah, the eldest daughter was careful to place a large copper bowl of dates beside the body, and over its rim she drew the hand of the dead woman as if about to eat of the fruit in the bowl. With a last look of reverential farewell, the party left the sepulchre, and the mouth of the cave was sealed for a season. The three black maidens were very sad and silent as they emerged from the place of the dead. Abram asked them if they would let him send them in to the city on the backs of hired asses; but all three refused. Each was very glad thus to be released from their recent sad occupation — and all three were filled with a secret relief thus to be outside of their cramped and guarded quarters. Brought but recently to the palace of Terah from the vine-clad hills of the Accadian mountains, the girls were somewhat weary of the semi-concealment insisted upon by their strict father, and all were glad to wander slowly homeward in the cooling dusk of the evening. Therefore, Abram left them to stroll A PRINCE OF UR. 333 quietly along as they would to the palace walls; for he was well aware that the Assyrian customs were widely lenient in matter of freedom for women in civil and domestic life, although his own father and the master-workman, Azzi-jaami, were still fain to cling to the older customs of the patriarchal forefathers, which gave the women of the household far less freedom. Abram's mind was racked with the distressing scenes he had just witnessed, the murder, the burial, and the utter lack of human sympathy which he saw everywhere about him, for both life and for death. To Abram's keenly philosophical mind this frivolity of purpose, this cheap and illusory measure of life's deepest problems, was one of the most painful forecasts for the future of his beloved and beautiful native land. He walked rapidly away from the fretted environs of the city, and on along down the groves of acacia and palms, with the fullbearing date-trees on every side, until he reached the river banks. It was in the latter part of the month of May, and the scene upon which his eyes rested would have delighted a far less poetic and artistic soul than was that of the prince of Ur. The great river Euphrates was at its flood. But instead of allowing its heavy waters to cover the surrounding lands with unchecked wasting destruction, huge channels, canals and river dyke vah  to  s flowed through their sluices in regular and appointed fashion. Many of the canals had been made possible by the skillful advice of Abram's forefathers and the latest and greatest canal of them all was that which parted his father's mammoth plantation into a thousand fertile sections. Thus were the quickening channels of moisture led to the roots of every tree and plant, for not many weeks hence, the seeds thus moistened would spring forth into fully matured wheatheads, and the fields of grain would smile across the face of the landscape for miles inland from the shores of this life-giving river. Nothing could exceed the beauty and luxury of this riverside and its now verdant borders. Bee-eaters, kingfishers, herons, pigeons, hawks, and other birds, in all their bright and varied plumage, flew about the tree tops, uttering their several cries; and none seemed to notice the presence of this lonely wanderer along the river-banks. The great city and its noise and glamor were far away. Here was the quiet peace of the tropical evening. The groves of date-palms among which he wandered would soon show their clusters of gold and amber under the glowing green of dusky leaves. Abram raised his eye as he thought of the luxury with which he was surrounded. Here was his country's rarest product— the luxurious date-palm — and he himself stood in the midst of his father's magnificent groves which were famed from Nine vah Babylon. amber fruit-clusters were his father's These the gold to mines. For beside food which they furnished to his father's households, they served as noble merchandise to the neigh
 Boring nations; from tree trunk to leaf; the very kernels, when broken up were fed to his father's goats. An incision in the stems yielded a drink which took the place of wine to very many of the Chaldeans. The crowns which grew from the tops of the trees were boiled for food, as well as the inner fiber and piths. Mats and baskets were made from the leaves, while the stems furnished the pillars, roofing and furniture of many palaces; exquisite pieces of furniture were sent, when so fashioned, as far as Babylon, because of their artistic workmanship. The whole landscape about him was amazingly fertile and all was highly cultivated. Shady with palms and acacias, it was also rich in pomegranates, and golden with the finest wheat-fields. Millet and sesame grew to a fabulous height, and all kinds of grain plants produced two and even three hundred fold. Such was the enchanted land from which Abram feared in his inmost soul he must shortly flee, and set out as a wanderer and a pilgrim. Wearied by his long walk, Abram drew near one of the numerous boat-houses on the plantation. The servants in charge sprang intsantly forward as soon as Abram's form emerged from the forest path. "What is thy pleasure, O my lord?" asked one as he bowed low before the prince. Abram had been carrying the sleeping babe in his powerful, young, arms, but now, he placed his charge in the arms of the servant and bade him prepare a boat for a short row down the river. The breeze coming up from the gulf would fan his brows and the ride would quiet his thoughts. The servants filled the boat with richly embroidered cushions, and into these Abram laid the baby with great care. He leaned back in the bow of the slight vessel and just as they were about to >tart, another boat shot into view around the bend of the river. .\n elegant boat richly garnished was that with pale purple cushions, and red silken sails gleamed in the dusk of the evening's glow. On the low couch-like seat within, fanned by two nude female slaves and leaning in patrician ennui "upon the opalescent colorings of his downy nest, lay the bloated and yet elegantly formed head and face of the Prince Mardan. "What ho, Abram," cried he, his voice dulcet sweet with indolent pleasure, "it is mine own evening airing time that I am taking. Step, I pray thee, into mine own boat, and let my slaves row thee and me together, I would fain have converse with thee." Abram, always quick to accord forgiveness when it was asked or implied, looked gravely, yet with not unkind eyes, into the smooth face and the bold eyes of his distant kinsman. But he answered firmly. "Nay, Mardan. Thy luxurious appointments do not accord with my more simple tastes. Let our boats slip along side by side. A PRINCE Of UR. 335 Or come beside me here. Then, if thou hast aught to say to me, it can well be communicated. Mardan, courtier that he was, instantly sprang from his own boat, and with graceful gestures, he alighted deftly on his cousin's boat, while he offered also his own slave to fan the sleeping brows of the black baby resting on Abram's more meager cushions. As the boat shot swiftly but quietly into the midwaters of the river, propelled by the skillful oarmen on the sides, Mardan looked up casually into the face of his companion sitting upright among the cushions. Abram never lolled. "Abram," he said, 'T have been wanting to see you all this day. You know that thy father Terah has given much of the conduct of his affairs into my hands, while he is out with my father Nimrod's armies. I have sought to branch out in every direction to improve his properties. You know how I have traveled from Ninevah to Babylon to secure the richest merchandise, the rarest stuffs, and constantly to negotiate sale for our profit." Abram was quite aware also of the imminent danger involved to his father's property by reason of some of the wild speculations of this same princelet, but he was not given to much speech. So he merely sat a little straighter on the cushioned seat as if to listen with all seriousness to what Mardan might have to say. "You will recall that my own father Nimrod and I were on the very point of negotiating a sale of this very plantation with thy father, which would bring thy grandfather Terah many chests of golden treasures." "I have often wondered what possible use there would be in such a sale, Mardan," replied Abram gravely. "Where could we go to better ourselves? And what is the use of gold and silver, when there are no homes, no plantations, no fields or farms? I have also wondered why both my kinsman Harran and grandfather Terah could contemplate such a sacrifice." Mardan's brows flushed in the fading sunlight. "Why, Abram, how foolishly you talk. What can you, a philosopher, an astronomer, an irrigationist, a poet, a student know of money transactions? Leave such things to other and more worldly-wise heads." Mardan turned away as if looking over the vast spires and towers of the city behind them in soft contemplation. "No, "-he resumed, "I have found that thy father Terah will refuse to complete that sale. But when it was in contemplation, there were bills of sale made out in my favor, and on these bills usury was chargeable to the amount of several measures of gold. I have still those usury tables in my possession. And in thinking the matter over, it has seemed nothing but right that I should divide up my father's, my own and your portion into thirds, you receiving one-third, my father one-third, and myself one-third." (to be continued.)