THE RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENCIES.
	For the fifth time in the history of the
Church it became necessary to organize the
Relief Society or to place in office the gen-
eral head of that great organization of
women.
	Emma Smith, the Prophet’s wife was the
first president with Sarah M. Cleveland and
Elizabeth Ann Whitney for counselors,
three strong, spiritual, practical women
whose work in the association will ever
stand as a high example to the women of
Zion. Of these three, only one, Elizabeth
A. Whitney, came to the valleys of Utah
with the great body of the Church and
when it became expedient to reorganize
the general head, this sweet angelic woman
was sustained in her old place. The noble
and capable woman, Eliza Roxy Snow, was
president, with Zina D. H. Young and Sis-
ter Whitney for counselors. Under these
three sisters marked advancement along the
lines of Relief Society work was made. In
company with other chosen workers, they
traveled constantly effecting and perfecting
the organizations of women, not only wards
and stakes of the Relief Society, but the
Young Ladies and Primary Associations as
well. Sister Eliza was a great organizer
and possessed splendid executive ability,
which fitted her for this arduous and won-
derful work, and under her regime was ef-
fected the most perfect order and advance-
ment of organization and official duties. Af-
ter her death the saintly and beloved “Aunt
Zina” was called to the office of President
—Zina D. H. Young with Jane S. Rich-
ards and Bathsheba W. Smith as counselors.
The Relief Society has always progressed,
step by step, the different lines of work have
been taken up and advanced. Sister Emma
under the guidance of the Prophet, laid
the foundations and gave forth instruction
in all the different phases of the work.
Eliza R. Snow built up a magnificent struc-
ture, like the marshalling of a great army
to continue and carry out the designs of
the great founders, and Aunt Zina called
forth the best of woman’s nature and
through her lovely teachings and example,
the Relief Society excelled in the purpose
of its existence—Charity. The spiritual
growth among the women of the Latter-
day Saints was most marked. They be-
came comforters in every need, adminis-
tered to the sick and the afflicted, fed and
clothed the poor and rejoiced exceedingly
in the Lord’s service.
	In 1901 owing to the death of Sister
Zina, the Society again had to be organized
and Bathsheba W. Smith was called as
President with Annie Taylor Hyde and Ida
Smoot Dusenbury as counselors. Of Aunt
Bathsheba who has just left us, so much
has recently been said and written and her
work is still so fresh with us that it would
seem almost impossible to add more. Yet,
under the administration of these three able
women great progress has been made in Re-
lief Society work. Many if not entirely
new phases of the work receiving most ju-
dicious attention and assuming a systematic


condition. The general work became di-
vided into departments and great stress
was laid upon the duties and responsibilities
of mothers. The young people, their spir-
itual and moral welfare have been subjects
of great interest in the society work, trained
nurses for the poor, and the necessity of
women educating themselves for their high
calling in office as well as the great charity
of the work, have also been given marked
attention. Again, through dear Aunt Bath-
sheba’s death, the Society had to be or-
ganized. It would be impossible to tell the
general satisfaction of the people when it
became known that our Prophet, Joseph F.
Smith, had been inspired to place at the
head of this great Society Sister Emmeline
B. Wells for President with Sister Clarissa
S. Williams and Julina L. Smith for coun-
selors. These three will take up the work,
where the others laid it down and we doubt
not that in such an age as this, the most
marked advancement along all the lines of
work will be evident. May the Lord bless
them, strengthen them, lead them always
and forever.
