A PRAYER.
Dear Lord, kind Lord,
	Gracious Lord, I pray
Thou wilt look on all I love
	Tenderly today.
Weed their hearts of weariness;
	Scatter every care
Down a wake of angel wings
	Winnowing the air.
Bring unto the sorrowing
	All release from pain,
Let the lips of laughter
	Overflow again;
And with all the needy
	Oh, divide, I pray,
This vast treasure of content
	That is mine today.
		—James Whitcomb Riley.


[Column 1]
THE GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CON-
			FERENCE.
	The Semi-Annual Relief Society Confer-
ence for October, 1910, was held in the Salt
Lake Assembly Hall, Tuesday and Wednes-
day, October 4 and 5 and on Saturday, Oc-
tober, 8 an officers meeting was held in the
assembly room of the Bishop’s Building.
	The conference opened with memorial
services for the late President Bathsheba
W. Smith. The music for this occasion was
furnished by the Temple choir led by Pro-
fessor C. J. Thomas, and was beautiful and
impressive. The choir sang, “I need Thee
every, hour,” and during the services the
following solos were sung: “Oh death,
where is thy sting,” by Brother Siddoway;
“Oh, My Father,” by Brother Geo. D.
Pyper; and “Sweet promised land,” by Sis-
ter Lizzie Thomas Edward, closing with a
duet, “Who are these arrayed in white,”
by Sisters Lizzie T. Edward and Maria
Winder.
	The services were presided over by Pres-
ident Emmeline B. Wells and remarks were
made as follows: Sister Sarah Jennie Can-
non spoke upon the General Relief Society
work of Sister Smith, very beautifully
touching upon her association with the great
women of the past and her feeling of lone-
liness now that they all had gone before.
Sister Emma Woodruff spoke of Sister
Smith’s great work in the House of the Lord
and her wonderful attention and affection
towards the duties of her office as leading
woman in the Temple. Dr. Romania B.
Penrose gave a talk on her long and varied
work in the Relief Society referring to the
extent of it—she having been one of the
original members and working in different
offices ever since, until she finally became
the great leader of the whole Society. She
further said, “She was indeed a queenly
woman, and a faithful woman. She never
soiled her lips with one word against the
priesthood, she taught us to be loving, kind,
one toward another, she was a woman of
great virtue, a woman of great kindness, a
mother to many in Israel. Sister Carrie
S. Thomas read the following beautiful sent-
iment:
“I loved her gentle rule, ‘her gracious way,
Mother she truly was—and is today.’

Ever I see her with the old-time grace,
Her pretty smile and sweet angelic face!

Gone on to him she loved so dear (long ’neath
	the sod),
She now rejoiceth in the Paradise of God.

We’ll scarce have time to miss you mother dear,
So soon we’ll overtake thee—Heav’n is near!”

[Column 1]
	After which Sister Lizzie T. Edward sang
most tenderly—“The Promised Land.” Sis-
ter Annie Wells Cannon read a poem, “The
Chamber of Peace,” following which Sister
Julia P. M. Farnsworth read the resolu-
tions which had previously been accepted
by the General Board and were published in
our last number, the congregation stood
during the reading and said Amen at the
close. Sister Alice M. Horne paid a sweet
tribute to her dear grandmother, and
thanked the sisters for their kind expres-
sions.
	The services were opened with prayer by
Sister Susan Grant, and closed by Sister F.
M. Lyman.
	The regular meetings of the conference
began Wednesday morning. President Em-
meline B. Wells and counselors Clarissa S.
Williams and Julina L. Smith in charge. On
the stand were the members of the General
Board.
	A few words of greeting were given by
the president expressing the wish that we
would all unite as one in our great work and
exert our utmost energy to build up and
promote this great Society in the cause of
humanity; asked that the Lord’s choicest
blessings might rest on us all, that we might
have a glorious conference. The greeting
was responded to by Sister M. A. F. Keeler,
President of Utah Stake. She spoke most
beautifully of Relief Society work and the
responsibility that rests on its members as
teachers of mothers in Israel. In order to
lead to guide and to assist in our many du-
ties, we should be like the Savior as far as
it is possible. To the women of Zion much
has been given and much will be required.
Education is the unfolding of human na-
ture, the growing up of all things. Life
from first to last educates. The enlarge-
ment of woman’s sphere need not detract
from her first duties of motherhood. In
looking after our daughters let us not for-
get our sons.
	The tenor solo, “My God, my Father,
while I wait,” was sung by Brother S. J.
Winter after which Judge Alexander Mc-
Master, of the Juvenile Court gave a most
interesting and instructive talk to the wom-
en, whom he addressed as the mothers of
Israel. First paying a tribute to the pres-
ident Sister Wells, having known her ever
since he was a little boy and having worked
on her magazine—The Woman’s Exponent
—he felt that no one knew the magnitude of
her work or the untiring labor of this gifted
woman. The judge referred to the unsel-
fish and gentle labors of the Relief Society
and thought the women in the organization
might be very helpful to the Juvenile Court.
He gave interesting recitals of conditions
concerning parents and children and the
laws governing them in early Rome and
England, and the revision and extinction of
some of these measures as time advanced,
until now all civilized people realized that
children should be dealt with in an entire-
ly different manner to adult criminals. He
urged parents to be careful about children
being out beyond the curfew hour and gave
many instances of delinquency because of
the breaking of that law. He urged the
parents to be watchful and careful and spoke
very strongly concerning the cigarette habit
saying, if your boy comes home with the
scent of tobacco about him never rest until
you find the scoundrel who sold that boy
tobacco. He is a violator of the law. No

[Column 3]
law is adequate to punish that man who de-
stroys your boy’s honor. He spoke very
strongly, also about the liquor habit among
young people, and closed by praying the
God of hosts to help every mother to strike
and strike hard to put down these evils that
lead to delinquency among children.
	Mrs. Agnes Olsen Thomas sang, “Rest
in the Lord,’ after which the two addresses
on amusements, given in full in another part
of this paper, by Sisters Annie K. Hardy
and Amy B. Lyman were given, and the
morning session closed by the congregation
singing, “The Spirit of God like a fire is
burning.” Benediction by Counselor Julina
L. Smith. The afternoon session of the
conference the following songs were sung:
“Mortals Awake,” “A Poor Way-faring
Man of Grief,” and “Our Mountain Home
so Dear.” Two beautiful solos were sung,
one by Miss Minnie Poulton, and “Rock, of
Ages,” by Lizzie Thomas Edward.
	Interesting and instructive remarks per-
taining to the work of the Relief Society
were made by President Emmeline B. Wells,
First Counselor Clarissa S. Williams, Sis-
ter Georgina Mariott, President of North
Weber Stake and Sister Annie S. Musser,
president of Liberty Stake, Sister Emily S.
Richards, spoke on suffrage. All the coun-
sel and advice was most excellent, but there
is not space in this issue to publish it. The
opening and closing prayers were offered
by Sister Rebecca N. Nibley and Minnie
H. James.
	The officers meeting, held on Saturday,
was given up almost entirely to answering
questions on Relief Society work and was
quite interesting. The conference was ad-
journed for six months.
			ANNIE WELLS CANNON,
					Acting Secretary.


