THE ISLE OF THE LONG AGO.
(From the Atlanta Georgian and News.)
Oh, a wonderful stream is the River Time,
	As it flows through the realm of Tears,
With a faultless rhythm and a musical rhyme,
And a broader sweep and a surge sublime
	As it bends with the ocean of years.
How the winters are drifting like flakes of snow
	And the summers like buds between;
And the year in the sheaf—so they come and
		go
On the River’s breast with its ebb and flow,
	As they glide in the shadow and sheen.
There’s a magical Isle up the River Time
	Where the softest of airs are playing;
There’s a cloudless sky and a tropical clime,
And a voice as sweet as a vesper chime,
	And the Junes with the roses are staying.
And the name of this Isle is the Long Ago,
	And we bury our treasures there;
There are brows of beauty and bosoms of
		snow—
They are heaps of dust, but we loved them so!
	There are trinkets and tresses of hair.
There are fragments of songs that nobody
		sings
And a part of an infant's prayer,
There’s a harp unswept and a lute without
		strings,
There are broken vows and pieces of rings,
	And the garments she used to wear.
There are hands that are waved when the fairy
		shore
	By the mirage is lifted in air;
And we sometimes hear through the turbulent
		roar
Sweet voices we heard in the days gone before,
	When the wind down the River is fair.
Oh, remembered for aye be the blessed Isle
	All the day of our life till night,
And when evening comes with its beautiful
		smile,
And our eyes are closing in slumber awhile,
	May that “Greenwood” of soul be in sight.
					—Benjamin F. Taylor.


[Column 1]
			AMUSEMENTS.
		By Amy Brown Lyman.
	Proper amusements for the young, (the
subject I have been asked to speak upon) I
regard as a subject of the greatest impor-
tance.
	The lives of our children are largely influ-
enced by the amusements they indulge in
and the friends they meet in a social way.
	Providing amusements is a problem that
confronts every parent, it comes up for set-
tlement in every home, and the parent who
does not solve this problem by giving it the
most careful consideration, and by actually
providing and directing such amusements
leaves the young people to do this for them-
selves and thus opens wide before them the
door that may reveal to them paths that lead
to ruin.
	The rearing of a good and well trained
family is for parents their most important
work. What doth it profit them if they gain
the whole world, which endures for time
only, if by so doing, they jeopardize the
souls of their own children which are to live
throughout eternity.
	Human nature is such that the minds of
young people and their bodies also are al-
most continuously in an active state, it is
therefore very important for parents to pro-
vide for them an abundance of proper physi-
cal and mental activities.
	Since the old adage that all work and no
play makes the dull boy, is kept constantly

[Column 2]
in mind by those who are successful in pro-
viding proper activities for the young, and
since it is also equally true that too much
play and little or no work makes an actively
bad boy—therefore it is of the utmost im-
portance for parents to provide for their
young people, first, a proper amount of well
directed work, and secondly, a proper
amount of appropriate and proper amuse-
ment.
	Amusements, the preparations for which
are planned by the young people themselves,
are generally to be preferred to those which
are provided by persons whose primary ob-
ject in conducting places of amusement is
for financial gain.
	When a young people’s organization gives
a ball or banquet a part of the membership
prepares the program, another committee
oversees the refreshments, still another
serves as reception committee, and in var-
ous ways such an entertainment gives em- 
ployment or amusement to the young people,
which, in many respects (because of the
training it brings) is of greater value than
the party itself. Inexpensive banquets which
require time and effort to prepare program,
menu, speeches, and other entertainment will
prove more entertaining often than dancing
parties, and at the same time will be a means
of giving practice in public speaking, and a
general uplift in lines of culture and educa-
tion.
	Local theatricals and concerts are fre-
quently critized because it requires so much
time and effort to make them reasonably
good, and the results achieved are generally
regarded as comparatively poor compensa-
tion for the efforts put forth; but to my
mind, the greatest value in these entertain-
ments is the discipline, training and experi-
ence which making the needed preparation
must necessarily give.
	Without giving further examples I may
state the general proposition which I am
endeavoring to demonstrate as follows:
The prime object of providing proper and
abundant amusements for young people is
to keep their minds and bodies so thorough-
ly occupied, doing desirable things, that
there will be no time and no place for their
thinking or doing improper things.
	There are two things in connection with
this subject that I desire to draw to your
attention especially—first, the importance of
learning some thing definitely about stran-
gers before they are permitted to associate
with our own young people.
	Secondly—the importance of providing
chaperones to accompany our young people
when they are associated together in their
amusement. As one bad apple in the bin
soon spreads decay to all its neighbors, so
does one improper associate contaminate,
more or less, all his companions. For this
reason we cannot exercise too much precau-
tion in choosing, for the associates of our
young, those of our own neighborhood and
those from abroad whose association will
tend to lift up rather than to lower their
standard of life and conduct.
	Strangers or even young men of the
neighborhood will place a value on the ac-
quaintance with your daughters, just in pro-
portion to the demands in conduct which
you require of those whom you receive into
your homes.
	Girls and boys who have been brought up
thus protected and guarded are always ad-
mired and their company and association is

[Column 3]
sought after by the best people in the com-
munity, both old and young.
	The question of proper chaperonage or
giving protection to our young people has
been, I fear, somewhat neglected in our
communities and in some instances at least
where young people have gone astray, their
parents, though they feel that they have
done their best may not be entirely free
from blame.
	Young boys and girls know nothing what-
ever of their own nature—they are abso-
lutely ignorant in this respect. They have
no idea of the temptations that may come
to them nor the nature of these temptations,
and to allow them to come and go when and
where they please is to run a risk that no
Latter-day Saint can afford to do. There
should always be older people or chaperones
wherever there are gatherings of young peo-
ple. The chaperones are not there to criti-
cize or make things unpleasant but to join
the young people in their pleasures and at
the same time to guard them from every
thing harmful or objectionable.
	For example, where young people attend
dancing parties definite provision should al-
ways be made for older people to be pres-
ent from the beginning to the close of the
entertainment. The dangers, too, which
surround young people who indulge in can-
yon parties, lake parties or other camping
pleasures are such that parents can never
safely permit their young people to partici-
pate in them, except when they are carefully
guarded by the constant presence of chap-
erones.
	Some mothers may say, “I can trust my
children, I know they are absolutely safe
wherever they go.” But how can any moth-
er know what her daughter will do if she
is surrounded by evil temptations, the na-
ture and danger of which are wholly un-
known to her? How can any mother know
that her son will be able to successfully re-
sist temptation even of the most dangerous
and deadly sort if it comes to him when fie
is wholly unsuspecting, and in a form with
which he is not familiar. Even old and ex-
perienced people are often surprised at what
they themselves do when they -are confront-
ed suddenly with an unfamiliar emergency
and notwithstanding their age and exper-
ence, under such conditions they sometimes
make serious mistakes.
	I will say in conclusion that it seems to me
it is practically impossible for us to have
our children so well trained that we can
know they will always have the necessary
strength and power required to enable them
to resist successfully all temptations that
may come to them. We should teach them
carefully and prayerfully, but in addition
we should be with them as much as possi-
ble to protect them from harm and assist,
them in passing safely all points of danger
which cannot be avoided.


Miss S. Belle Chamberlain, of Boise, who
is serving her second term as State Super-
intendent of Public Instruction of Idaho,
has announced herself as candidate for re-
nomination. Miss Margaret Keenan, prin-
cipal of the Nampa High School, has an-
nounced her candidacy for the same office.
She has been in Idaho school work for elev-
en years and is a member of the State Edu-
cational Council.


