SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.		-		OCTOBER, 1915


[Column 1]
		EXTREMES IN DRESS.
	A great deal has been said and written re-
cently by our people and in fact by many
speakers and writers in Eastern and English
journals and newspapers about the ex-
tremes of women and girls in the way of
dress, style of hats, and wearing the hair.
The fashions, or some of them, at least, are
hideous, not to say ridiculous as well, and
it is really alarming to the thoughtful and
sober-minded, lest there should be evil con-
sequences.
	Those who believe in simplicity seem to
have gone out of date altogether; never-
theles it is the girl or the woman in sim-
ple costume that is most attractive and in-
deed more charming and artistic.
	Without alluding to all the extremes that
prevail at the present time, just one or two
things are terrifying, to say the least. The
hobble skirts, that seems the extreme of
nonsense, and renders the wearer liable to
accidents, if moving about at all, and what
sweet, pretty young woman should put on
any trammel that would hinder her from
having perfect freedom of action, seems
very strange. The shorter skirts of late
years have been a great comfort, all who
wore them could move more freely and were
not in danger of carrying dirt and dust
about as when long dresses were in vogue,
certainly it was a step in the right direction,
now comes the hobble skirt; however any
woman may content herself with thinking
the hobbie skirt becoming or graceful, it can
never become a universal fashion.
	But the hats that have become so popu-
lar are awkward and objectionable; they
occupy too much space; there is nothing
graceful or elegant about these enormous
hats, and as for the heads, one would think
they would ache incessantly; and were they
even comfortable to the wearer, they are
very disagreeable to other people in close
proximity, although it is scarcely possible
to get very near to the person with one of
these enormous hats.
	And the head underneath, with its puffs
and its rats, and where did it all come
from? Even though one could be sure of
this false hair, or puffs or braids, or rats,
or whatever name it may be called, it is
unwholesome for the brain anyway; and
likely to produce disease, if not death.
	It is really grievous to those who take
these dreadful fashions into consideration to

[Column 2]
think of the serious consequences that may
befall those who indulge in these extremes,
and who imagine that such fashions or styles
add to their attractiveness or to their ap-
pearance.
	The old-fashioned girl in the past, and
not so very long ago either, thought a fine
head of hair was her crowning glory, but
now that is all changed. It must be un-
healthy, and why our dear, beautiful girls,
trained in the correct modes of living and
of dress, should desire out of the way styles
in costumes one is at a loss to imagine.
	But aside from its being unbecoming, and
hurtful, and nonsensical, there is to us as
Latter-day Saints another more serious side
to the subject: it is the spiritual side. We
have been warned and forewarned against
following the fashions of the world, and
the Bible and Book of Mormon, in the most
serious way, proclaim the consequences of
following after those whose minds and
hearts are set on these vain and foolish
things.
	Let your garments be plain and the work-
manship the beauty of your own handiwork.
This we have heard always, and it has come
to be a universal maxim.
	It is still fresh in the minds of our middle-
aged women of today, how strenuous Pres-
dent Brigham Young was on this matter
of dress, and how averse he was to any of
our people, and especially his own daugh-
ters, following what he termed the vain and
silly fashions of the world.
	Retrenchment was the watchword for
some years, and yet retrenching then, when
we look back upon those days in the “sev-
enties,” seems almost a burlesque compared
to what we really ought to retrench from
nowadays, either in dress or modes of liv-
ing.
	And it introduces too into our midst an
element of caste which we should never
foster or encourage, as Latter-day Saints.
	It is not the spirit or sentiment of the
true Gospel of the Savior, and we who per-
mit such an influence and do not try to dis-
courage it cannot hold ourselves guiltless.
	We talk much of the simple life, but how
few practice it. It is said of some of us
who try to maintain that to be plain and
neat in our dress is all that is essential, “O,
well, you are no longer young and you do
not feel this as we do because you are ‘out of
the swim.’ ” That may be so, too, in a
way, but the Prophets and seers and reve-
lators gave us the word of the Lord on
these subjects, and the Scriptures in which
we as a people implicitly believe, tell us
plainly what will befall the daughters of
Zion in the last days. “The calamities oc-
casioned by sin.” One of these says, “There-
fore the Lord will smite with a scab the
crown of the head of the daughters of Zion,”
etc.
	Read the third chapter of Isaiah, com-
mencing with the 16th verse.
	In very many respects it would even be
better for us to go back to the primitive
ways of the Puritans than to follow the out-
landish prevailing fashions of today, that are
making such class distinctions that are fatal
to our best interests and in direct opposition
to the spirit and genius of the Gospel of our
Lord and Savior.
	The Lord will chasten us severely, there
is no doubt, if we by holding our peace
pass it over. Let those who realize what
these excesses will lead to among our young
people lift a warning voice and seek to

[Column 3]
maintain a simplicity in dress and in home
life, that class distinction may not be per-
mitted to flourish among our young people
or even the older ones, but that the bless-
ings that follow right living and upright
conduct in all our affairs may continue to
abide in our midst and that we as a people
may escape the contaminating influences of
those who live for self.


