WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			AMUSEMENTS.
[Address delivered in the Salt Lake Assembly.
Hall, October. 4, 1910, by Annie Kay Hardy.]
	Judge McMaster has been telling us about
conditions of the children and the efforts
that are being made to protect and reform
them. Before us we see an army of moth-
ers and Relief Society workers who are
striving to prevent defiance of law by the
young. Do we need our mother’s classes?
	It may seem peculiar to introduce a text
in beginning a talk on amusements. In sec-
tion 59, Doctrine and Covenants, verses 18,
19 and 20, the Lord said to the Prophet, Jo-
seph Smith, (Aug. 7, 1831): “Yea, all
things which come of the earth, in the sea-
son thereof, are made for the use and benefit
of man, both to please the eye and gladden
the heart.
	Yea, for food and for raiment, for taste
and for smell, to strengthen the body and to
enliven the soul.” And, now mark, a cau-
tion is given—“And it pleaseth God that he
hath given all these things unto man; for
unto this end were they made—to be used
with judgment and not to excess.”
	“All work and no play makes Jack a dull
boy” is the old, true saying, and it has been
the policy of our Latter-day Saint leaders
to encourage proper amusements and recre-
ations that will enliven the souls of the peo-
ple. The cultivation of music, the drama,
dancing, social gatherings, literary societies,
picnics, etc., have surely allowed no time
for melancholy.
	When evening parties begin at the time
they should be ending, judgment is not dis-
played; when amusements are so frequent
as to result in dissipation of money, health,
and time, one may claim there is excess in
violation of the revelation quoted.
	There are physical and mental dyspeptics
—and, one may add pleasure seeking dys-
peptics. Something is wrong when mothers
say: “My daughters are going the whole
time. I scarcely see them, A birthday party,
a ride, a shower, a wedding, a picnic, a
Lake party, society fetes, etc.,” and they
must have becoming dresses and accessories
for these occasions. Fashion is so dicta-

[Column 2]
torial that it may be of little purpose to
hint that when it infringes on the health
and comfort of its victims by leading them
into the preposterous, reason should strug-
gle to gain a little ground. The style of
doing the hair, and the hats have been mon-
strous of late, and now we are confronted
by the hobbie skirt. Our shoe men state that
the young and older ladies who wear french
heels, are suffering by the score with flat-
tened insteps.
	The young do not wish to appear singu-
lar, still it is possible to avoid extremes and
what leads to deformity, or to an expense
that works hardship on an already over-
burdened father and mother. Neither is it
fitting for Latter-day Saint girls to uphold
a fashion contrary to delicacy, notably, the
decollete gown.
	There is a growing curse in the love for
excitement that is being fostered by caterers
to the public; shooting the schutes, scenic
railways, joy riding, or dangerously rapid
motor riding, too excessive athletic sports
when not closely supervised.
	Fathers and mothers are grieving over the
temptation the cheap theatres are to their
children, especially the young boys. If they
earn a little money they have no disposition
to save, wishing to take in the “shows” that
often give exaggerated ideas of life, also,
frequently being tainted with coarse and
suggestive references or that which is preju-
dicial to right thinking. And mothers plead,
my neighbors let their children go, and mine
feel that I am tyrannical when I refuse.
There should be a mother’s union.
	A restless world seeks pleasure by run-
ning here and there. To day’s excitement
only anticipate the ones that are to follow
tomorrow. This does not mean a rest and
a change—just a continued excess.
	In some of our stakes, one evening a week
at home with the family is being inaugu-
rated, for reading, music and conversation
and the young people are surprised that so
much genuine enjoyment and profit can be
obtained in this way.
	The old fashion of having our social gath-
erings made up of all ages, grandparents,
fathers, mothers and children was truly
ideal, the zest and joy of the young inspired
the old; in turn, their stability and wisdom
checked extremes, so they were mutually
beneficial. Let us have play, comradeship,
chumminess between parents and children.
Love, sympathy and interest. Fathers
should play ball, pitch quoits, etc., with the
boys. Take them on the excursions they,
love; teach them how to swim, fish, shoot;
be interested in their home and school sports
and always have plenty of innocent attrac-
tions at the fireside, with a place there for
the boys and their friends, so that the ditch
bank and street corner will never know
their presence. The coming of darkness
should call the boys and girls into the home
long before the curfew sounds.
	Mothers, direct, the play world of the little
girls, and play with them sometimes. Know
their companions, visit their school, the or-
ganizations to which they belong, give them
little parties at suitable hours, be interested
in their love affairs when they begin. While
we deplore extremes in dress, give the girls
an opportunity to choose the colors they
like, and the fabrics, too, when reasonable.
Teach them to make their own dainty un-
derwear, be reasonable but firm, and this
will help save our children.”

[Column 3]
We need amusements and only cry out
against excesses.
	“Man is that he may have joy.”
	As a great orator said: “In a world
where God lets His lambs frisk, and His
trees toss, and His brooks leap, and His
stars twinkle, and His flowers make love
to each other, I know He intended men at
times to laugh, and sing and sport.”
	Judge McMaster says: “The strong
arm of the law is operative to reform the
erring youth; as women in Israel we have
God’s great law of love to prevent their
going astray.”


