A SHORT SKETCH OF A NOBLE
				WOMAN.
	Who Died July 6, 1910,, at Hatch, Idaho.
	Christina Young Higginson was born in
Scotland, July 31, 1844 was the daughter of
Nairn Young and Margaret Adams. Her par-
ents died when she was very young, leaving
her in the care of her grandmother, who also
died when she was thirteen years of age. Her
parents were members of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, and she grew up
a firm believer in all the principles of the Gos-
pel. When she was eighteen years old she left
her native land and all that was dear to her,
and came to Utah to cast her lot with the
people of her faith. She left Scotland without
purse or scrip, for the President of the branch
told her if she had faith she could go to Zion.
She left Scotland in the spring of ’63, reaching
Salt Lake City in September of the same year,
and soon after was married to Wm. T. Higgin-
son. She was the mother of eight children,
five boys and three girls, two of the girls hav-
ing gone before her to Home above. Her
youngest son was in the mission field, and he
did not reach home in time to see his mother
alive, but has since gone back to finish his mis-
sion. She also leaves a blind son. She was a
true, faithful Latter-day Saint, and was ever
ready to defend the Faith. She filled many po-
sitions of trust in the Church and was president
of the Relief Society at the time of her death.


She held that position for 25 years and was
loved by all associated with her, and all feel her
loss deeply, for she was like a mother to all in
the ward and for miles around. She has been
like a ministering angel to the sick and suf-
fering and was ever ready to lend a helping
hand in distress. She was very successful as a
midwife, having acted in that capacity for 27
years. Her life has been a busy one till the
close. She was of a cheerful disposition, al-
ways had a word of cheer and comfort for
those in sorrow. She was a born poet and
many have been cheered by the products of
her gifted pen. She was large-hearted and
brave and the soul of honor. I can speak from
experience for we have been companions for
over 37 years and have shared each other’s joys
and sorrows. I ever found her to be true as
steel; our love for each other was steadfast
and true, and I feel that even death cannot
separate us. We are parted for a little while,
but in the great hereafter I know we will meet
and still love each other. She has gone but
her good works will follow her.
	She has earned her rest.
	She leaves an aged husband and six loving
children and thirty grandchildren to mourn her
loss. Her funeral was well attended, friends
coming from far and near bringing flowers to
strew on her casket. Among them was a beau-
tiful wreath presented by the Hatch Relief So-
ciety in token of their love and esteem for their
beloved President.
					Hattie J. Higginson.
	Hatch, Bannock Co.


