CONFERENCE REPORTS.
	NORTH SANPETE STAKE.
	Relief Society conference of the North
Sanpete Stake was held in Fairview, June
24, 1910.
	President Williamina Ericksen presiding:
Singing, “We Thank Thee O God for a
Prophet;” prayer by Brother C. K. Hansen
of Fairview; singing, “School Thy Feel-
ings.” President Ericksen greeted the sis-
ters and bade them welcome; was glad to
see so many out and meeting under such
favorable circumstances. Indeed pleased to
have with us Sisters Farnsworth and Rich-
ards of the General Relief Society Board.
	Sister Miner reported the Fairview ward
as still prospering; were in touch with all
the sisters of the ward, had an increase in
attendance. About all the young sisters of
the ward had joined the Society. Pres. An-
nie P. Candland reported the North Ward of
Mount Pleasant as in a good condition.
Number in attendance had increased. Teach-
ers were taking a great interest and were
the back bone of the work.
	President Ellen C. Tulegren reported the
Spring City ward as being in an excellent
condition. Had good counselors and they
were united in their work. They had over
twelve hundred bushels of wheat and fifty-
four dollars to buy more wheat.
	Tressie Larsen of the Mount Pleasant
South ward rendered the solo, “Love Di-
vine.” Sister Farnsworth of the General
Board was very pleased to be with the peo-
ple of Sanpete, and was thankful for the
courtesies received from Sister Fowles and
Brother Bush. Relief Society work was
growing every day. Parents had a great
responsibility in caring for their children.
She had traveled a great deal and visited
a great many European cities and found
the Scandanavians to be the good industri-
ous people. Read the piece, “Tired Moth-
ers.” Spoke of President Bathsheba W:
Smith’s illness. Encouraged all to do their
duty in Relief Society work, but never ne-
glect husband, children and home, for that
was our first duty to care for them. Re-
ported her visit with the Elders in Europe
and encouraged the mothers to educate their
sons in Relief Society work as they were
called on in the mission field to organize
societies and give instruction in that line.
Mothers keep girls from Salt Lake City on
account of temptation there which we do
not have in the country. Sanpete stakes in
every respect were among the lead. En-
couraged all to go on in the good work.
	Sister Richards of the General Board was
very pleased to meet with such a pleasant
and cheerful audience, considering many


[Column 1]
had traveled several miles that morning.
She had been a Relief Society worker for
forty years. Was here to visit and encour-
age instead of teaching. Had a great deal
of work to do, but gave her Relief Society
work the preference. She felt the Relief
Society work was a great work, and to do
for our sisters and loved ones all we can
while they live.
	A reading, “My mother,” was given by
Sister Sanderson of Fairview. Sister Baj-
nal reported the Chester ward. They had
not held meetings regular on account of so
much sickness. Wales ward was reported
by Sister Ethel R. Dorius. Young mothers
were taking a great interest and a good at-
tendance considering the small ward. Re-
lief Society among first to help bishop and
missionaries.
	Stake Counselor Isabelle Allred reported
the work of the stake officers. All wards
had been visited except two, and they were
not on account of sickness.
	President Levee T. Stewart reported the
Milburn ward as having a good attendance
considering the scattered ward. Young
mothers were taking an interest in the work
and all felt well in the cause.
	President Ericksen made a few closing re-
marks. Singing, “Come, Come ye Saints,”
prayer by Sister Celia Rasmussen.
	Conference reconvened at 2 p. m.: Sing-
ing, “Arise O Glorious Zion;” prayer by
Bishop Peterson of Fairview; singing by
the choir.
	President Hardy of Moroni reported her
ward as still improving. All were united
and she felt they were doing a great work.
	President Carrie Ericksen of the Mount
Pleasant South ward reported. Meetings
were interesting; mothers meetings success-
ful; financial conditions very good. They
helped missionaries and looked after the
poor. Had a good class of teachers who
were a great help. It was their aim to have
all the sisters of the ward, belonging to the
Church, enrolled in the Relief Society.
	Sister Larsen from Moroni favored us
with a song. Talk on the “Early training of
the child,” by sister Alberta Jacobs of the
Mt. Pleasant North ward.
	Sister Emily Richards gave a very inter-
esting talk, full of encouragement and good
advice. Reminded the parents of the care
of their children. Could feel the Relief
Society was making great progress, as they
were represented nationally and internation-
ally.
	Song by Sister Kate Reese Lewis, of
Wales. Sister Farnsworth invited all Relief
Society workers to visit the Relief Society
apartments in Bishop’s Building, Salt Lake
City. Said there were seven hundred Re-
lief Society officers and forty thousand mem-
bers. Sister Penrose had organized many
Societies in the British Isles. Gave valu-
able advice and encouragement.
	President C. N. Lund, of the North San-
pete Stake, was pleased to be present and
partake of the pleasant and peaceful influ-
ence that existed, was grateful for the work
of the sisters in the stake. Asked the Lord
to bless and propser them.
	Sister Celia Rasmussen explained the
plans prepared for the year’s work. Presi-
dent Ericksen felt thankful for the good
time we had had and also for the visit of
the sisters from the General Board.

[Column 2]
	Song by the male quartett of Fairview.
Benediction by Sister Eva Sorensen.
			FRANCES E. CHRISTENSEN,
							Stake Secretary.
			ST. JOSEPH STAKE.
	The Relief Society of the St. Joseph Stake
convened at Thatcher, Sept. 9, 1910, Presi-
dent Elizabeth W. Layton presiding. Among
the visitors were President Andrew Kim-
ball, and Bishops from the several wards.
A good representation of the Relief Society
of the different organizations were present.
Conference opened by the congregation
singing, “High on the Mountain Top.” In-
vocation by Brother E. S. Carpenter.
“Should you feel inclined to censure,” was
sung, after which President Elizabeth Lay-
ton, in her opening remarks, regretted that
all the sisters in the stake were not present,
for she felt that we would have a time of
rejoicing together. Thought that the moth-
ers should make a special effort to come
out on such an occasion. Solicited the faith
and prayers in behalf of our beloved Presi-
dent, Sister Bathsheba W. Smith. Was
disappointed that we have none of the Gen-
eral Board to visit us. First Counselor Sa-
lena Phillips was excused on account of sick-
ness.
	Second Counselor Fannie W. Kimball
spoke on the propriety of storing grain, gave
incidents illustrating the importance of this
movement, encouraged the various organiza-
tions to store all they could, and in the best
possible manner.
	Greetings and congratulations from Pres-
ident Bathsheba W. Smith were read by
the secretary. Sisters Elizabeth Moody and
Emma Merrill having lately returned from a
visit to Utah, and who are members of the
Stake Board, each gave a short talk of en-
couragement to the sisters, felt that our Re-
lief Society organizations were up-to-date
in all their different departments, and con-
gratulated those present on conditions
among us being so favorable. A sacred solo
was rendered by Sister Clara Brinkerhoff.
	A splendid talk on woman suffrage was
given by Chairman of the County Associ-
ation, Sister Inez Lee.
	After emphasizing what had been said on
the storing wheat, President Andrew Kim-
ball took up the subject of children’s atti-
tude toward, and respect to parents. Dwelt
upon the importance of parents being kind
and dignified in their demeanor toward their
children, having respect for all those in au-
thority, that they might set an example
worthy of being followed. After singing,
“The Spirit of God,” etc., benediction by
Mary K. Taylor, conference adjourned un-
til 2 p. m.
	After the usual opening exercises, Mrs.
W. M. Burke of the Anti-saloon League
of the Territory, gave an able and instruc-
tive talk on prohibition and franchise.
Showed how impossible it is to vote intelli-
gently unless one is fully qualified for the
same, and now that we are about to enter
the union, advised the sisters to inform
themselves regarding the franchise move-
ment. This was followed by a sacred solo
by Sister Alice Pace. A paper on hygiene
and sanitation was read by Sister Pearl
Udall, which contained many salient points
for parents in the care of children, and
showed how often disease comes in our
midst through neglect and carelessness.

[Column 3]
	After a few choice closing remarks, Pres-
dent E. W. Layton announced that the con-
ference would be adjourned for six months.
All sang the “Doxology,” and benediction
was, pronounced by Brother Frank Kirby.
			JOSEPHINE KIMBALL,
							Secretary.


