LUCY WALKER KIMBALL.
		(Autobiography.)
	Lucy Walker Kimball was born April
30, 1826, in the town of Peacham, Cale-
donia Co., Vermont. She was the daughter,
of John Walker and Lydia Holmes. Her
mother was born April 18, 1800; married
April 18, 1819. Her Father was baptized
into the Church of Jesus Christ in 1832;
the mother, two years later. They left Ver-
mont in 1834 for the West. They found a
small branch of the Church in Ogdensburg,
New York; some of Brother Kimball’s first
converts, preparing to go west also. The
father was induced to remain with this
branch until 1837. During the year 1835
the children, who were eight years and up- 
wards, were baptized by Elder Abraham
Palmer. They were full of faith, having
been taught to pray for their parents, and
received the Holy Ghost by the laying on of
hands, and the signs followed them. Some
spake in tongues, others prophesied; again
others had the gift of faith to heal the sick,
etc. One of this little band prophesied that
before we reached our destination we would
be surrounded by armed mobs with black-
ened faces, and would need much faith in
God to endure the many persecutions and
trials before us, and that some of our num-
ber would lay down their lives; others see
their brethren shot down before their very
eyes. This was verified in the wholesale
slaughter at Haun’s Mill.
	Notwithstanding what was said we did
not falter in our faith but started on our
perilous journey trusting in God. We
passed through Kirtland just after the
Saints had left for Far West. When we
arrived in Caldwell County we were sur-
rounded by a mob of about forty persons
with blackened faces. They hooted and
yelled and looked more like demons than
human beings. It was early one December
morning when this occurred. They ordered
my poor, delicate mother out into the deep
snow, searched our wagons, took from us
our arms and ammunition, pointed their
guns at us children to intimidate us and
cursed and swore in a most frightful man-
ner. One of the neighboring women had
intruded her hateful presence into our camp,
urging them to shoot. “Shoot them down,”
she cried, “they should not be allowed to
live.” The question may be asked how did
we feel under these circumstances? I can
speak for one, I did not tremble—I did not
fear them. They looked to me too insignifi-
cant, and I felt to trust in One, (although
but a child) who held our destinies in his
own hands.
	We continued our journey until we came
to a settlement on Shoal Creek, five miles
distant from Haun’s Mill; my father and
another of the brethren went to the mill
to hold council with Brother Joseph Young
and others, as to what course was best to
pursue under the circumstances. They were
in a blacksmith shop when a mob appeared
in sight, formed in line and without giving


[Column 1]
any warning whatever, commenced, firing
upon them, men women and children. The
first ball fired by the enemy lodged in my
father’s right arm. He returned the shot,
but found it impossible to reload. He then
ran down the bank of the creek, and just
before him one of the brethren, in ascending
the opposite bank, was shot down. He
stepped under some lumber leaning against
the bank, which afforded very little if any
protection, but, in answer to prayer, their
eyes were blinded, and, although they looked
directly at him, yet apparently, did not see
him, passed on, declaring with an oath that
not another Mormon was to be seen. He
remained there until all was silent, then ven-
tured forth to witness the dreadful scene of
the massacre.
	In the shop lay the lifeless body of the
son of Warren Smith with his brains beat-
en out with the breech of a gun, and an-
other of the same family with his thigh
torn entirely away and apparently mortally
wounded. A little further on an aged man,
Father McBride, lay weltering in his gore.
It was not enough to shoot him down, but
the murderers had found an old scythe with
which they had mangled that venerable head
in a most horrible and sickening manner.
A young woman was also found behind a
huge log, where she had fallen in a fainting
condition, with a wound in one of her hands,
and several bullet holes through her cloth-
ing. A volley had lodged in the log. If a
man had on a good coat or a pair of good
boots they were stripped from their bodies
in a most brutal and inhuman manner, while
the victims were in the agonies of death.
My father aided in dressing the wounds of
those worse off than himself, and to bury
the dead as best he could with his left hand.
His own arm was not cared for or scarcely
thought of in the midst of the terrible suf-
fering of others, until it was in danger of
mortifying. Besides, the country was in
such a state of excitement that he had to
hide from place to place and came near
losing his arm. Two weeks, later he re-
joined his family, pale and emaciated. My
brother William had gone in search, hav-
ing learned that father’s life had been
spared. These two weeks were full of the
keenest anxiety.
	On the night of this fearful slaughter,
a young man came running through the
woods and deep snow, bare-headed, telling
us that an armed mob had surrounded
those at the mill, and were murdering men,
women and children, and would soon be up-
on us. This news caused a regular stam-
pede in our little company, as some of our
company had gone to the mill. Some of the
women took their little ones in their arms;
while others clung to their clothes; a loaf
of bread and a blanket or two were car-
ried by older members of the family, and
all rushed deeper into the snow and adja-
cent timber. Mother pleaded in vain for
all to remain in camp, as there would be
no possible safety in such a flight. The
cries of the famishing children would be-
tray them, besides they could have no fire
as this would attract the attention of the
mob. My mother and Sister Davis, (whose
husband had died en route, and whose loss
was deeply mourned by all) remained in
camp, called their children together, prayed
with them, soothed their fears and assured
them that the same God whose watchcare
had been over, us during our journey thus
far, was our friend still and would protect

[Column 2]
us. We went to bed feeling that we were
safe, and God was our friend; but when
the morning dawned and I looked into my
mother’s pale face, I was positive she had
not closed her eyes and felt, child as I was,
guilty that I had suffered myself to be
lulled to sleep by her magic words of com-
fort, while she had kept a vigilant watch
during that fearful night of keenest anxiety.
Those who left camp returned exhausted
and almost famished.
