NEW PRESIDENCY OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY.

[Column 1]
THE NEW PRESIDENT AND COUNSEL-
	ORS OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
	The new president of the woman’s Re-
lief Society—Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells—is
perhaps better known to the readers of this
little paper than any other woman in the
world, for her position as its editor has
made her name a familiar household word
among all the Latter-day Saints. Never
a number of the EXPONENT is issued that
does not contain something from her pen
and many times nearly the whole number
is her work. It may be a poem or historical
sketch, signed Aunt Em, or a theme or
editorial unsigned, but at any rate the paper
is generally an evidence of her untiring
brain activity.
	As a worker in the Relief Society her ef-
forts are also well known among the peo-
ple, for she has been actively engaged in
this work for the past forty years. Fore-
most in all interests in the state for good
but especially for the good of women Mrs.
Wells has always stood, until it is universal-
ly conceded that she is the great leader
among the women of Zion and has endeared
herself to all classes by her gracious help-
fulness and charming personality. More-
over, she is now the only one engaged in
the work of that galaxy of noble women
who were so active in the reorganization of
the Relief Society after the settling of the

[Column 2]
valley—a precious link between the historic
past and the glorious present. How beauti-
ful it is to know, that her long and loving
service has received this honored recogni-
tion.
	The choice of Counselors also has met
with universal favor, both Sister Williams
and Sister Smith being women well known
and beloved, and actively engaged along the
lines of Relief Society work.
	Sister Clarissa S. Williams, the first coun-
selor, has for the past nine years acted as
general treasurer of the Society in which
office and also as a director of the Society
her work has been invaluable. Though
quite a young woman, she perhaps bears the
unique distinction not borne by any other
woman, of having served in every capacity
in the Relief Society. She became a mem-
ber when just a girl of seventeen and was
soon called to act as ward teacher. Later,
she was made secretary and from that to
ward president. A position which she re-
signed when placed on the general board
and called to act as treasurer for the whole
Society. Still later when the Salt Lake
Stake was divided her services were again
required in a local way and she was asked
to assume the office of president of the
Relief Society of the new Salt Lake
Stake together with her present position as
a general officer, a position which she most
admirably filled, for some years resigning
therefrom only after planning and promot-
ing the work in the stake in a most effici-

[Column 3]
ent manner. Sister Clarissa is one of those
broad minded and well balanced women
who naturally become leaders, drawing all
people towards them by their personal mag-
netism. Her practical knowledge of Relief
Society work in every department perfectly
fits her for this new position and her coun-
sel will certainly be wise and helpful.
	Sister Julina L. Smith, the second Coun-
selor is also a practical and energetic work-
er among women having been a member of
the General Board for the past eighteen
years. While her line of work has been
mostly as a home maker she has not con-
fined her talents nor interests entirely to
her own family, but has reached out her as-
sistance and help in numberless ways and
many there are who praise her and call her
blessed. She has made a study of nursing and
obstetrics as well as every thing pertaining
to the essential duties of motherhood and
home making, and her excellent qualities
and attainments will surely be appreciated
by her co-workers. She is endowed with
that perfect mother love coupled with a true
sense of the responsibilities of child culture
which will enable her to impart valuable
instruction to the anxious mothers and her
deep religious convictions will have a fine
spiritual influence among the relief workers.
	Such a presidency bids us expect a rapid
growth in advancement and progression and
numbers.
	May heavens richest blessings be theirs.
