JULIA WARD HOWE.
	The past century has produced many
men and women of renown in various fields
of advancement; and among women of cul-
ture and literary achievement none stood
higher in our estimation, or did more meri-
torious work than Julia Ward Howe, who
died recently in her ninety-second year. She
continued in public life up to the time of her
departure to the “better land.” fulfilling du-
ities and obligations that were essential to
the welfare of men and women, in promot-
ing the best interests and tending to the
highest cultivation of all that is uplifting in
the elements of progress, in the homes of the
people and in this free land.
	The galaxy of great people with whom
her life had been associated is broken up,
and nearly all have gone on before, and
have “crossed the boundary that we call
time.” Clara Barton of the Red Cross and
Caroline M. Severance, one of the very first
founders of literary societies and coteries,
these two of that period are still living,
Clara Barton near Boston, and Mrs. Sev-
erance in Pasadena.
	Perhaps no other woman of her time is
so well known at home and abroad as Mrs.
Julia Ward Howe. Her most famous hymn,
“The Battle Hymn of the Republic,” has
been sung in several languages in many
lands.
	Julia Ward Howe was born in New York
City, May 27, 1819, she was the daughter
of Samuel Ward and Julia (Cutler) Ward.
Her father was descended from Roger Wil-
liams, and Governor Samuel Ward of Rhode
Island, who was a member of the First and
Second Continental Congresses. Her moth-
er was of Huguenot blood and was a grand-
niece of General Francis Marion, known in
the Revolution as “The swamp fox of South
Carolina.’ Little Julia’s mother died when
Julia was five years old. Her father was a
man of wealth and influence, the first presi-
dent of the Bank of Commerce, New York,
and a founder of the University of the City
of New York. He was interested in various
lines of philanthropy and is said to have
founded the earliest temperance society in
America.
	It would be useless to attempt telling of
Mrs. Howe’s life work in a brief news-
paper article. Much has been written of
her in the magazines and periodicals of the
day, and during the time of her life; she has
published several books, written manv po-
ems, and has been connected with news-
papers especially women’s papers for the
last forty years, and she has been president
of the New England Women’s Club many
years, this club antedated, Sororis, she was
one of the leading members of the Radical
Club and of the Town and County Club of
Newport, a lecturer for years at the Concord
School of Philosophy and drew its biggest
audiences; and was president of the Au-
thor’s Club till her death.


[Column 1]
	Mrs. Howe considered “The Women’s
Congress” one of the most valuable parts
of her work, this was known as the A. A.
W.—“Association for the Advancement of
Women,” and this congress held annual
meetings in different cities of the United
States and Canada. Mrs. Howe was an
ardent woman suffragist, and she often told
the story of her conversion to it, and added
that she was glad she joined this movement,
because it brought her into such high com-
pany.
	A list of her books includes. “Passion
Flowers,” “Words for the Hour.” “A Trip
to Cuba,” “The World’s Own,” “From the
Oak to the Olive,” “Later Lyrics,” “Sex and
Education,” “Memoir of Samuel Gridley
Howe,” “Life of Margaret Fuller,” “Mod-
era Society,” “Is Polite Society Polite,”
“From Sunset Ridge,” “Reminiscences,”
“Sketches of Representative New England
Women.”
	Miss Ward was never fond of dress and
as a child was so absorbed in books and
study as to be careless of her appearance; it
is said her sister met her one day returning
from school with one blue shoe and, one
green, and “later it is recorded her sisters
had great difficulty in persuading her to
choose the stuff for her wedding gown.
Julia grew to womanhood dreamy and ab-
sent, absorbed in severe study and compos-
tion.”
	When she was twenty-two years of age
she spent a summer in Boston, where she
met Dr. Samuel Gridley Howe twenty years
her senior. The doctor was already famous;
in 1824, a student fresh from Brown Uni-
versity, he had gone to Greece to fight with
Lord Byron in the uprising of the Greeks
against the Turkish yoke. It is stated that
after two years he returned home raised a
large relief fund and went back with a ship
load of food and clothing which he dis-
tributed himself, he stayed for a time to help
start trade and commerce in the devastated
country. Doctor Howe afterwards helped
the French to establish their second Re-
public, and later with J. Fenimore Cooper
and S. F. B. Morse (the inventor of the
telegraph), he aided the Poles in their un-
availing struggle against the combined ty-
ranny of Prussia, Russia and Austria. Doc-
tor Howe went to Germany carrying a
Polish Relief fund, and was arrested and
imprisoned in Berlin, and afterwards ex-
pelled from the country. Later he was in-
terested in Garibaldi and Cavour in the fight
for Italian liberty. It is said that Mrs.
Howe at the time of her death was looking
forward to meeting Garibaldi’s grand-
daughter who is now visiting this country.
	Dr. Howe was a friend to the Irish im-
migrants who came to this country years
ago in crowds and were very unpopular. At
the time when there was an anti-Irish riot
in Boston, Dr. Howe hurried to the scene to
protect the Irish from the mob, he found
there a tall young man, a stranger to him,
who had come on the same errand, it was
Charles Sumner, and they became close
friends.
	In 1833 Doctor Howe began his great
work for the blind; Julia Ward visited the
Perkins Institute for the Blind with Long-
fellow and Sumner in 1841, there she had
her first sight of Doctor Howe on his black
horse. “A noble rider on a noble steed” she
described him. In 1843, Doctor Howe and
Miss Ward were married and went abroad

[Column 2]
with another newly married couple, Mr. and
Mrs. Horace Mann.
	Doctor Howe had already become famous
the world over through Charles Dickens
in his American Notes of his successful ef-
forts to educate the deaf, dumb and blind
girl, Laura Bridgeman; and their trip
abroad was like a triumphal progress. They
spent some months in Rome where their eld-
est daughter was born and was named Ju-
lia Romana; when they returned to America
Doctor Howe resumed his work at the Blind
Asylum, and Mrs. Howe was busy for years
caring for her home and children, a son
and four daughters lived to grow up, anoth-
er son died when three years old.
	Mrs. Howe was an ideal mother, and most
hospitable in her home.
	It is impossible to give any good idea of
Mrs. Howe and her work in a few discon-
nected paragraphs, those who have known
of her life-long labors feel how inadequate
words are to convey to the reader a glimpse
of this grand woman, but her life will be
written by those well acquainted with her
magnificent work for humanity, and will
doubtless be a rich legacy to bequeathe to
posterity.
	Mrs. Howe passed away October 19,
1910, at Oak Glen her summer home at
Newport, Rhode Island.
	The Woman’s Journal of Boston, from
which most of these facts were gleaned, says
of Mrs. Howe, “In her later years Mrs.
Howe occupied a unique position. The
Americans are looked upon as a prosaic peo-
ple worshiping only wealth, and destitute of
idealism. The universal love and esteem
in which Mrs. Howe was held was due, not
mainly to her scholarship or her many-sided
ability but much more to her beautiful and
lofty character, and most of all, to the fact
that she represented the great old traditions
of the Republic. Whatever the cause—and
the wonderful enthusiasm felt for her is hard
to analyze—it was genuine and it extended
to all classes of society. *	*	* What-
ever assembly she entered—even of men, the
most commercialized, or of women the most
frivolous—all rose to their feet en masse
electrified by one spontaneous impulse, and
cheered her to the echo with real emotion
and enthusiasm.
	Funeral services were held for Mrs. Julia
Ward Howe at her summer home, near
Newport, R. I.
	She was robed in white, with the well-
known white cap upon her head and over
it the doctor’s hood conferred upon her by
Smith College a few days before her death,
with the degree “Doctor of Humanities.”
	The memorial service in Boston was at
the church of the disciples of which Mrs.
Howe was a member.
	The casket was draped with laurel stream-
ers and purple orchids, the church in front
of the flag-draped pulpit was banked high
from wall to wall with magnificent floral
pieces from numerous societies and friends.
The congregation was from all the walks of
life, rich and poor, white and black.
	Of the eight pall-bearers five were Mrs.
Howe’s grandsons and the other three were
husbands of her granddaughters.
	“Mrs. Howe was buried beside her hus-
band in Alt. Auburn cemetery, a place des-
tined to be a shrine for pilgrims who will
come to honor her in company with Long-
fellow, Lowell, Holmes, Brooks. Agissiz
Summer and other immortals of Alt. Au-
burn.”

[Column 3]
	“During the day memorial services were
held in all the public schools of the city, the
Battle Hymn of the Republic being sung,
and other poems of Mrs. Howe’s recited by
the pupils.”


