[Vol45 | December 1958 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Lesson | Title: Social]
Social Science—Latter-day Saint Family Life Lesson 19—"We Seek After These Things" Elder John Farr Larson For Tuesday, March 24, 1959 Objective: the home. EY ERY family has the responsibility of establishing a way of life which will develop a stable sense of values for its members. 'The ability to put "first things first'' is developed through wholesome pursuits and the wise application of "heart, might, mind and soul." If the home is well balanced, family members will naturally develop interests in worthwhile things and will be greatly aided in becoming welladjusted individuals. Family strength, solidarity, and happiness are enhanced when family members individually are healthy, happy, well-adjusted persons. 'The personality of man, like his physical body, is best nourished by proper diet. Each grows best through a balance of wholesome foods. A harmful ingredient not only fails to aid growth, but may interfere with normal development. I'wo of the dietary needs of the personality are education and spiritTo illustrate the importance of wholesome educational influences in uality. (See Lesson ii, "As the Twig Is Bent.") In this lesson, we shall study the role of the family in providing the proper stimulation to help its members grow spiritually and intellectually. Used as the Lord intended, education can become a powerful tool in molding abundant living and useful citizenship, now and hereafter. Family Education Throughout the history of the Church, our people have fostered good educational institutions, believing that intellectual progress is an essential part of our mortal existence. As our pioneer forefathers moved from place to place, the establishment of schools was second only to finding a place of worship. From the moment they arrived in the "valley of the mountains," plans were made to construct schools of a permanent nature where the best of instruction for their children 856 could be offered. Such gems as the following have been constant reminders to develop our minds: It is impossible for a man to be saved in ignorance (D & C 131:6). Since this quotation means ignorance of Jesus Christ and the laws of salvation, it is an admonition to pursue gospel scholarship. Elder Mark E. Petersen said:... Education, which fails to build faith actually is a system of ignorance, it is a system of blindness, it is a system which alienates people from the way of God (The Relief Society Magazine, January 1952, page 9). The glory of God is intelligence, or, in other words, light and truth (D & C 93:36). Our present educational systems offer good opportunities to all who are willing to seek them. In the child's early years, educational planning is primarily a parental responsibility, but thereafter, it is basically a joint venture between parent and child. In planning its educational program, each family might well consider: 1. How can we instill within our children a love of learning? A desire for higher education? 2. How much education does each child require? 3. How shall we select the schools to be attended? 4. How shall the schooling be financed? 5- How much vocational and job-placement guidance should children receive? Desire for Learning The desire for learning is born and developed in the home. Children search when stimulated by parental interest and encouragement, and searching is learning. 'The environment of the home,. Which RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1958 includes many aspects as we have learned, is probably the greatest single influence on intellectual attainment. As the child reaches out for knowledge, and as he uses it, he experiences sensations varying from pleasure to dissatisfaction. Parents are uniquely equipped to help their children feel the pleasure of accomplishment. If a child's early learning experiences are pleasant and effective, an unquenchable thirst for knowledge is developed, satished only by the consistent acquisition and use of knowledge. Praise should be strong when success is evident, and encouragement ready when the effort and work need improvement. Confidence in the child's potential should be expressed, thus helping him surmount his difficulties. Bacon once said, "reading maketh a full man," and Latter-day Saints have always regarded seriously the admonition:. Seek ye diligently and teach one another words of wisdom; yea, seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom; seek learning, even by study and also by faith (D & C 88:18). If good books and periodicals are always available in the home, children will never be content with mediocre literature, but will grow up with an appetite for the best. When parents take the time to read aloud from good books to small children, a new world opens up which can grow richer through the years. Reading readiness is not the only pre-school preparation which helps a child adjust to the learning process effectively. Parents should also see the importance of a normal social adjustment, self-reliance, self-discipline, proper work habits, sound LESSON DEPARTMENT health habits, normal physical growth, ability to share with others, active interest in others, and knowledge of the world in which we live. All of these things and more, contribute to setting the stage of the child's "love of learning" and make the learning delightful. Parents can also encourage good study habits by providing in the home adequate lighting, quiet atmosphere, and clean, comfortable surroundings. 'The family library, with such helpful reference material as parents can afford, should be planned to invite its use. In addition, children should be encouraged to use the public library and should be familiar with its procedures. Parental visits to school give encouragement and status to children and provide parents with an awareness of school difficulties, so they can aid in the happy school adjustment of the children. Perhaps, parents can best give children a desire for education by exhibiting the results of their own learning through good living and by showing a continuous interest in studying and progressing with their children ("Live and Learn Forever," Relief Society Magazine, December 1957, page 816). Children should be taught to visualize the breadth of education; that it is more than going to school; more than learning how to make a living; that it is a life-long process of learning how to live. One of our prophets has said:. Eternal progress can be enjoyed only when the principles of eternal life are associated with their daily existence. Education that has for its highest ideals the pursuit of worldly ambitions is wanting in that free and unrestrained flow 857 of the spirit which makes for higher freedom and a more wholesome life (Gospel Doctrine, Ninth Edition, Joseph F. Smith, page 353). Intellectual Capacities Intellectual capacities differ and, for this reason, it is unwise for parents to compare the accomplishments of different children. It is discouraging and unfair to the less gifted. Each one should feel that he is competing only with himself and that his best effort should be his goal. Each child should be encouraged to develop in its own way, thus recognizing that each is different in capacity, interest, and achievement. To force a child into a mold of another is to suggest failure. The same effect generally results when a parent attempts to achieve vicariously through a child that which the parent failed to achieve. The oft dreamed wish of a mother that her son grow up to be President is a desirable goal and a possible source of real stimulation, if mother (and father) deal with it wisely. A parent's strong desire for his child to achieve in a particular way is often defeated by too much parental direction. Education, like salvation, must be personally achieved. No child will "arrive" at a desired goal except on his own power and _parents' enthusiasm should not cause them to "force" the child, for he will never achieve in that way. He should be seeking his own goal. A desire to learn and a willingness to work are far more important than native brilliance, for few children fall into a genius class. The humility to be teachable is a valuable asset in the learning process. When some children become discouraged, thinking they are not as 858 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1958 endowed as others, perhaps these words would. Be timely:... The spirit of genius is the spirit of hard work, plodding toil, whole-souled devotion to the labor of the day (Gospel Doctrine, Ninth Edition, Joseph F. Smith, page 370). Higher Education Students should be encouraged to seek as much education as their chosen vocation or profession require and as circumstances permit. A college education, properly applied, can be a valuable "passport to better living" throughout their lives. The schools selected usually depend upon geographic location, specialized courses offered, finances involved, and, perhaps, Church affiliation. If these items are discussed and decided on a family basis, family members can better help each other achieve their desired goals. Generally speaking, students appreciate their education more and apply themselves better when they carry some portion of the financial load. It is not uncommon in this day to see young families join in helping father get his education. While this generally involves some sacrifice, it cannot be regarded negatively, for such an experience is laden with blessings for all the family. Vocational Guidance Vocational choices should be made by the individual concerned, because success is more apt to be had in a field of interest. But interest should not be the sole criterion. We may be interested but not adapted. Parents should provide some guidance and thus prevent unhappiness and disappointment later on. Professional counseling is also available and should be sought early enough to make the school program effective. Follow-up counseling to insure successful on-the-job adjustment is also helpful. In choosing vocations, their prastical applications should be kept in mind. Seek to be educated in the highest meaning of the term; get the most possible service out of your time, your body and brains, and let all your 'efforts be directed into honorable channels, that no effort shall be wasted, and no labor result in loss or evil (Gospel Doctrine, Ninth Edition, Joseph F. Smith, page 351). While we are educating our children in all that may be termed the beautiful in science and art, we should not fail to insist that they shall learn to do practical things, and that they do not despise the common labors of life. Any other course toward them is an injustice to the boys and girls, as well as to ourselves and the community in general (Gospel Doctrine, Ninth Edition, Joseph F. Smith, page 344). Education for Women Education for women is desirable to improve their ability to fulfill their most important roles in life as wives and mothers, and to equip them to earn a living outside the home, if such becomes necessary. President Joseph F. Smith once said: It is very important to the welfare, usefulness, happiness, and comfort of our daughters (in view of certain circumstances) that they learn some branch of industry that could be turned to practical account in the way of making a living, should circumstances require it (Gospel Doctrine, Ninth Edition, Joseph F. Smith, page 352). Are you fitting them for the practical duties of mother and wife.... Or are you... Making them... Expert im ostentatious embellishments? Is mother doing all the work? If you say yes. LESSON DEPARTMENT you are not doing your full duty to your child (Gospel Doctrine, Ninth Edition, Joseph I'. Smith, page 344). The intellectual growth of Latterday Saint women has been greatly enhanced by the educational aspects of the Relief Society. 'Through this medium they are constantly improving their skills to be and become better wives and mothers. Education Is Long Lasting We know that educational progress, not necessarily academic, not only benefits family members by providing a more abundant life, but it also affects their eternal progression. 'The Lord requires that we study things of the spirit, that our greatest purpose be to build faith. In The Book of Mormon the ancient prophet said, "To be learned is good, if they hearken unto the counsels of God." No discussion of the role of education in Latter-day Saint family life can omit the need for gospel scholarship. Parents should teach their children the gospel. 'The Doctrine and Covenants clearly states that God will hold parents responsible for their teachings in the home. (See D & C 68:25-28. ) While secular education is desirable, it is the gospel perspective that we should seek—knowledge of God and his laws so that such knowledge can rise with us in the resurrection and give us eternal reward there. Whatever principle of intelligence we attain unto in this life, it will rise with us in the resurrection. And if a person gains more knowledge and intelligence in this life through his diligence and obedience than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come (D & C 130:18-19). This knowledge with other great 859 truths revealed by revelation in creases our obligation to improve our minds through constant study. It emphasizes the importance of placing our children under the influence of teachers with sound spiritual values. We have always been taught that a lifetime of learning is of no avail unless the Spirit of the Lord dwells with us and prompts us to use our learning wisely to benefit our fellow men. It is our responsibility as Latterday Saints to lead our families into wholesome educational and spiritual pursuits which will not only educate their minds, but gladden their hearts and enrich their souls as well. President David O. McKay has well summarized the purpose of true education: It is awakening a love for truth; giving a just sense of duty; opening the eyes of the soul to the great purpose and end of life. It is not so much giving words, as thoughts; or mere maxims, as living principles. It is not teaching to be honest, because "honesty is the best policy" but because it is right. It is teaching the individual to love the good, for the sake of the good, to be virtuous in action because one is so in heart; to love and serve God supremely not from fear, but from delight in his perfect character (Gospel Ideals, President David O. McKay, page 437). Questions for Discussion 1. Give a brief history of education within the Church since its organization. Describe the Church educational system today. 2. Why is it important for Latter-day Saint families to take advantage of the Seminary program? L. D. S. Institutes on college level? 3. What was unique about the education of Joseph Smith? 4. How can Latter-day Saints best keep growing intellectually and spiritually? 5. Discuss the gospel as a "schoolmaster." 860 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1958 6. What educational standards are givSACRED LADIES I °." 22°02": 7. Discuss John 8:32 "And ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make THREE PART I Supplementary References CHORUSES Ninth Edition, 1. Gospel Doctrine, Josepu F. Smirn, chapter 19, pp. 342- =a BESIDE STILL WATERS—Hamblen.25 354. >. BLESS THIS HOUSE—Brahe.25 2. Gospel Ideals, Davin O. McKay, ss. BRIDGE BUILDER—Dougall.20 I Chapter 32, page 429. 3. Latter-day Prophets Speak, chapter — CONSIDER THE LILIES—Scott.22 6 GLORY TO GOD—Bach-Wilson.25 397 Page 39": i — a, 4. "Values Derived From Reading pose GOD SHALL WIPE AWAY ALL Worthwhile Literature," Tuomas C. TEARS—Rom@. 222c2scececsesnenssese.20 Romney, The Relief Society Magazine, wa GRANT ME, DEAR LORD, DEEP February 1957, page 9o. PEACE OF MIND—Stickles 22 5. "Habits of Industry and Abundant Life for Children and Parents,'"' MADELINE a. HALLELUJAH CHORUS—Handel.22 B. Wirtuuin. The Relief Society Magaa HOLD THOU MY HAND—Briggs.20 zine, July 1957, page 420. Boil HOW LOVELY ARE THE 6. "Imperative for Youth: Stay in MESSENGERS—Mendelssohn. Ilid School," National Parent-Teacher, June » IF YE LOVE ME KEEP MY 1957, page 27. COMMANDMENTS=Medien _ 20 7. "A Reading Lesson for Worried Parents,' Lronarp J. Bucuner, National -" Lae Higa Nee Parent-Teacher, September 1957, page 20. HEARTS—Mendelssohn. 2 -: &e. Aaa " 8. "Our Son Likes Books—We Planned The above is only a small listing of It That Way," Puytiis G. STIGALL, the sacred music we carry for womens' National Parent-Teacher, April 1957, page voices. Try us for your requirements in 28. This line... - ' > 9. "Gifted Children," Paul Witty, NaMusic Sent on Approval tional Parent-Teacher, December 1957, Use this advertisement as yourorder blank Page 14. 10. "College: A Grade School DecisDAYNES MUSIC COMPANY. ————S™ ion," Nancy C. Wimmer, National Parent-Teacher, September 1957, page 24. 5 E. Ist South 11. "Dig That Dictionary," CHARLES 1 Salt Lake City 11, Utah Please send the music indicated above.:. W. Fercuson, National Parent-Teacher, May 1957, page 4. [LJ On Approval () Charge CF Money Enclosed Name 12. "Can We Predict a Child's IntelliAddress.. Gence?" Nancy Bay. Ey, National ParentCity & State Teacher, December 1957, page 22. 13. "Education Beyond High School," Supt. Of Documents, U. S. Government Printing Office, Washington, D. C., 25 Daynes Micke cents. LATALEL LAAT LILA Cea 14. "A College Where New Careers bi Lili. 15 £. Ist South Begin at Sixty-Five," Wiii1AM S.

Dutton, 145 NORTHUNIVERSITY, PROVO Salt Lake City 11, Utah I National Parent-Teacher, January 1958, page 14. LESSON DEPARTMENT 861 NOW TWO for ONE FOR THE SPEAKER or TEACHER An unlimited variety of choice, interesting material 1. THE BEST OF GORDON OWEN A collection of the best articles from his TV and Radio Programs 2. EAT AND BE MERRY (More than 400 entertaingly funny stories all in excellent taste) The Regular Price $3.50 NOW (while the supply lasts) ONLY $2.50 for both postpaid Send your order to: Gordon Owen 1534 Yale Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah CHRISTMAS HOLIDAY TOUR Eight-Day Tour Includes Tournament of Roses Parade Write about our Mexican Tour, European Tour, and also for the Hill Cumorah Pageant Tour for 1959. For further details write or phone: MARGARET LUND TOURS 3021 South 23rd East Salt Lake City 9, Utah Phone: IN 6-2909, AM 2-2337, CR 7-6334 THE SALT LAKE COSTUME COMPANY @ COSTUMES FOR ALL OCCASIONS @ COSTUME FABRICS AND TRIMMING @ HEADQUARTERS FOR AMERICAN FLAGS Please write or phone them at their NEW LOCATION. THE SALT LAKE COSTUME COMPANY 1701 South 11th East Salt Lake City 5, Utah Phone IN 7-9494 e BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover—$2.50 Leather Cover—$3.80 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles 35 150 to 300 miles. 39 300 to 600 miles - cc ece lle 45 re 4 600 to 1000 miles 0.0.00 54 1000 to 1400 miles 0. 64 1400 to 1800 miles 0 02.00000. 76 Over 1800 miles 0.00.000 U --.87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-258] 33 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah our flattering full length lon Gown y Si Delectable daintiness in easy care, long wearing nylon Classic V-neckline and full cut, comfortable sleeves. Soft pink, blue, yellow, green or lilac. 32-46 ZCMI LINGERIE Downstairs Store Mail orders to: MARGOT MANNERS, ZCMI Salt Loke City 10, Utah Please send the following Nylon Gowns at 2.98: Quan. Ist Color Znd Color Size Check or M. O. Name 0 cccscessccccccececccersecsessensnscascsecestecsereserenanpoasseaceeare oe City ceecesccessssssncncssscececcesssscasceaeeeses ZOMG sseee SEOPE oo crerees Include 20¢ postage for first gown, 7¢ each additional, Utah residents add 2% state tax. Charge RES ERK E> x RERELERES RRREELE KRRRKERL ELAR ESE RA ES EL TRESS LSLAR PRVUE A. RELIEF SOCIETY PINS: A-1. Double gold-filled (1/10 10 kt.}, polished back, solid gold safety catch $5.50 A-2. Gold-filled (1/10 10 kt.) $3.75 B. BRACELET: Gold-filled (1/20 12 kt.) $6.75 C. NECKLACES: Heavy chain necklace, gold-filled (1/20 12 kt.) $9.75 Gold-filled (1/20 12 kt.) light chain necklace i $6.00 ees « All prices include (Pendant on both necklaces is double gold-filled.) Federal tax (oe In pioneer days, the flowers of the Sego Lily festooned the foothills surrounding Salt Lake Valley, while the lily bulbs provided life-sustaining food. Thus combining beauty and service, the lily seems an especially appropriate symbol to represent the high ideals and impressive history of the Relief Society. The outline form of a single Sego Lily, the phrase "Charity Never Faileth,"' and the founding date have been incorporated in a beautiful set of jewelry, designed for the Relief Society by the artists and craftsmen of the world's largest custom jewelers—The Balfour Company. Mail orders direct to: GENERAL BOARD - RELIEF SOCIETY, 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City 11, Utah SPECIAL! SPECIAL! 1959 TOUR TO EUROPE IN JUNE Write for itineraries for the European, Hawaiian, and Historic Train Tours. Get your reservations early as groups will be limited. For further information Write or Phone: VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 East South Temple Salt Lake City 2, Utah Phone: EM 4-2017 LEARN TO TYPEWRITE! New Classes Begin Soon Adult classes for Relief Society and genealogy workers will teach beginning and advanced typing. Classes will run 6:30 to 8:00 p. M., Mondays and Thursdays. Individual help and instruction by professional teachers. Call for reservations and further information. LDS BUSINESS COLLEGE Phone EM 3-2765 70 North Main Salt Lake City 11, Utah Page 864 Birthday Congratulations