[Vol45 | December 1958 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Fiction | Title: Not to | Author: Sutherland]
["Not to the Swift,"— Chapter 6— Conclusion Deone R. Sutherland]

Her world Was crumbling into little pieces. "Bill," she choked brokenly, "please — take me to her." "Dad's on his way to pick you up," he said, consolingly. Then he added in his usual, big-brother Way, "Now don't make a scene, Kit. Dad wants us to let Mom think that we like the idea of having Christmas here in Center City. He had a hard time getting her away from home. So it's up to us to convince 810 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1958 her it's a great idea. Meet dad out in front in ten minutes. [ll follow you to the hospital." Kitsy put the telephone back in its cradle with a little sob. Mom was sick. Her precious, lovely, queenly mother, who was the best hostess in Orchardville, taking care of others with ease and grace and never complaining that the big house was too much work, was suddenly unable to do it any more. Now the house was dark and locked up, and Christmas had disappeared like a song blown away on a frosty wind. Shouldering into her coat, Kitsy ran from the room. She was halfway down the stairs when she met Marcia. Brokenly she _ repeated what Bill had told her. "Dad will be waiting," she said, trying to edge past her. But Marcia stood resolutely in the middle of the stairway. "Now, listen," she said. Her eyes had steely little glints. "Don't go out to meet your Dad until you can smile. He needs you to make him feel okay about all this." Anger flared in Kitsy. What made Marcia think she knew so much about the way to handle parents? "Look who's talking! You don't know what it's like to love a home the way I do—or to have your mother so sick you can't have Christmas. So let me go, Marcia." Blinking her eyes, Marcia turned her head, but not before Kitsy had seen her lips tremble. "Oh, Marcia—I didn't mean." Kitsy reached toward her. "You did!'' Marcia moved so Kitsy could get by. The hospital room was very white and still and Mom looked rested and almost happy. "Isn't this ridiculous?" — she laughed as she held Kitsy close. "I feel so well! But your father insists that I stay here." "He certainly does!" Dad laughed back. '"'She's going to take it easy from now on." "But what about Christmas?" Mom questioned anxiously, holding — to Kitsy's hands. ITSY swallowed hard, hoping her smile looked real and not like a dummy's grin. "We'll get along fine," she managed. "So please don't worry, Mom." "Peg and Sid will be leaving California in the morning,' Mom went on. "Why don't you and Bill convince your Dad that the best thing for you all is to go home and have a real Christmas." Dad shook his head. "Without you, Kathryn? Oh, no. We're all staying here in Center City for Christmas. I can have dinner here with you, the nurse says. Peg and Sid will be with Kitsy and Bill. So don't worry, darling. Let someone else take the responsibility for a change." "But, Richard!" Mom protested weakly. "I want Christmas to be the way it's always been for us." Bill came in then and gave Mom a big kiss. "That's for you!" ning. A starchy white nurse followed him in. She gave Dad a telegram. They all watched excitedly as he opened it. His lips quirked the way they did when he was very amused. '""Well—tell us!" Mom demanded. "It's a big surprise," he laughed. "Peg expects a baby any day now. They were planning to come here he said, grin- CHRISTMAS IS WHERE THE HEART IS hoping the baby might be born at our house around Christmas. But now, since they heard you were in the hospital, they'll stay home, of course." "A baby!" Mom said _ tearfully. "How wonderful. We could've had the baby for Christmas — if I hadn't been sick!" "Now, Kathryn," Dad soothed her. "I think it's high time Peg and Sid made a Christmas for themselves." "Yeah," Bill agreed. "Better late than never. I'll bet Uncle Sid is sitting on the moon." Kitsy felt sick all over as she kissed Mom gently, and tried desperately not to break down when she left the room with Dad and Bill. "I'm counting on you, Bill," Dad said. "See that your sister is taken care of on Christmas. I'll give you a check to cover meals at a nice place. Your gifts are at my hotel." His heavy dark brows drew together anxiously as he looked down at them. "We must let your mother think that this is fun for you both. That is her chief worry — that she is letting you down." Bill touched his shoulder. "Don't worry, Dad," he reassured him. "We'll be okay. Won't we, Kit? We'll have a big time. 'Tell Mom that." RIDING back to the dorm in his old car, Kitsy noticed Bill had slumped down in a sulky pout. "Pm in a spot," he said, avoiding her eyes. "Barbara wants me to go to Lakeridge to meet her folks now that I'm not going home for Christmas. After all, I am pinned to Barbara." Kitsy drew a long quivering 811 breath. Yes, Bill was pinned to Barbara; but did he have to go to her folks for Christmas, now, when she needed him so terribly? She turned her head, squeezing her eyes shut to hold the tears back, and watched the car lights on the slippery wet pavement. Bull was having a hard time steering. How would he ever take Barbara to Lakeridge in this shaking wreck? "You need a car, Bill,' she said, impulsively. "Dad should give you his car and get a new one. I'll ask him for you." He gave her a quick glance. "Are you kidding?" he asked. "No — I'm not kidding," she answered. ""This old thing is dangerous. Dad hasn't noticed it. 'That's all." His eyes were puzzled. "Why should you ask him for me?" he demanded. "Because I want you to look respectable when you go to Barbara's folks for Christmas." There! She had said it in one breath. And she had been very grown-up about it, too. Even Marcia with all her wise talk couldn't have done any better than that. Bill was very quiet and his eyes were worried. Kitsy knew he wanted to keep his promise to Dad, too. He will have to work it out in his own way, she thought sadly. "Where will you have Christmas?" he asked, abruptly. "Oh, here and there." She forced a carefree laugh as Bill stopped the car in front of the dorm. "Maybe at Harvey's Place," she added as she got out. "Harvey's Place!" he gasped. "You can't go there. No sister of mine is going to spend Christmas like 812 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1958 that. Where is your friend Marcia going?" "Any place where there's fun she answered. "But Christmas!" he exploded. "I won't let you." Kitsy spun around on her toes. "I'm on my own this Christmas, Bill," she said. "Ts that so!" he muttered. "Don't forget you're just a little freshman up here." "Tl learn," she called back as she hurried up the pathway. Bill must not know how awful she felt, how deserted. She reached a dark corner of the big porch before she began to cry. I"? HE lifted her head as the door opened. Marcia came out in her wool skirt and sweater. Kitsy could see her plainly in the shaft of light from the hallway. "Hi!" she called. "That you, Kit?" Kitsy dabbed at her eyes. She wouldn't let Marcia see her cry for a million dollars. Howie and Bart were lounging in big chairs in the living-room, but they unwound their long legs and got to their feet, lifting their hands ereeting her. Howie took her coat. "Hello, Kitsy," he said, almost gently. "We thought you might be hungry. Even little frosh should eat now and then." Gazing up at him, Kitsy thought he looked like a gentleman in that white shirt and black tie. And his brown hair was newly clipped to a shiny stubble. He's really goodlooking. Why hadn't she noticed before that his cyes were a nice steady gray? "Tm starving!" she admitted. "We thought you would be," Marcia said. "So I asked Mrs. McBride if we could use the kitchen to fix you some dinner." Kitsy tried to smile. They all knew her trouble. Marcia must have told them. But they weren't going to mention it or notice that she had been crying. 'They knew better than that. They went out to the kitchen and. Howie pushed her into a chair. Then he draped a towel over his arm pretending to be a waiter. "Would Madame like ze hot dog in ze bun or on ze plate?" he questioned, striking a pose. "She'll take st fied,' Bartesaid, pouring grease in a pan. "Boil it," Marcia ordered. "Fry these potatoes in that grease. And there's plenty of jello for all of us, with whipped cream." Sitting there at the kitchen table, Kitsy looked at each of them wonderingly. 'They were being good to her. She was sure they had planned to go to the party at the gym tonight. 'That was why Howie and Bart were dressed up. But, instead, they had stayed here to help her when she came from the hospital. She would always love them for this. "T like whipped cream," Howie said, smacking his lips. "'I even like it on fruit cake and mince pie or Swedish short bread like my mother makes. Boy, can she cook and does she always spread it on for Christmas." His voice trailed off, wistfully. N? One spoke. 'They all pretended to be very busy, eating. 'That was the first time Howie had ever sounded homesick. Kitsy looked at him sideways. He was looking at her. "It's like this," he said, leaning toward her. "My mother sent me CHRISTMAS IS WHERE THE HEART IS a big fruit cake. 'That's my favorite. We can have it with whipped cream any time you say. We want you to have a good Christmas, Kit, with all the shiny things like stars and music." There was a big hot lump in her throat. Howie was trying to make her happy; it was in his eyes and his voice and his nice manners. Fe wasn't just someone who made fun of life and all the poets. He liked everything sacred about Christmas. He had been homesick, too, so he had acted crazy and cut-up all the time to hide his real feelings. So had Bart and Marcia. Kitsy hadn't realized before that all the other students had problems, too. Especially at Christmas. Howie and Bart had to work their way through school, and they couldn't afford to go home, but Marcia had it hardest of all because her parents would not be home. She never mentioned how heartsick she was. I've been selfish, Kitsy thought, as her heart reached out to them, wanting to do something wonderful for them. "Now, look," she said, in a catchy little voice as she got a brave idea. "I'd like to fix a Christmas dinner for us all. Right here. If Mrs. McBride will let us." Howie dropped his spoon with a little clang. Bart took a long drink of water, and Marcia wet her lips before she answered. "We can ask her," she said. "This place is deserted on Christmas. 1 think she'll let us." "Sounds super!" Bart said. Howie had bent over to pick up 813 his spoon. When he raised his head his eyes were beaming. "Tl stuff a turkey!" Kitsy offered. "I've watched Mom do it for years. I know how!" "How many scoffed. Marcia's eyes met Kitsy's for a long, understanding moment. 'They both knew she was grown-up now, but, of course, you couldn't let boys know everything. They had to believe they were the greatest. "Guess what!" Howie stood up and pulled a long solemn face to hide how glad he was. "l've got an extra job for tomorrow singing at Gazett's 'Toyland. And Bart here is their Santa Claus. So we'll be rich. Now Christmas is for sure!" Christmas is for sure, Kitsy repeated to herself. She knew now that Christmas can never be lost. People might go away and situations change, but Christmas is always a shining, beautiful time of loving and giving and helping others to have fun, too. You have to hold on to Christmas and once you are sure of this, you never let go of it again. She smiled up at Howie. "Do me a favor?" she asked him. "Kitsy," he said, "You are now looking at a man who will get you the moon if you ask him for it." "A song will do," she answered. "For Mom. On Christmas Eve. I think she'd like that." years!' Howie "Sure," he said, his eyes crinkling. "It's a date. I'll be proud to do it, Kit." Howie docs have a heart, Kitsy thought, as her heart lifted and sang. He really does! Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, December 1, and December 15, 1898 "For THE Ricurs OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMEN OF ALL NATIONS" CHRISTMAS AGAIN: Here comes Christmas again with all its delightful accompaniments and memories.... This is the day of love in every household, of peace on earth and good will to all mankind, and everyone who feels the importance of the sweet charity of the Savior should himself exercise that sweet spirit of sublime and heavenly grace which reflects as much upon the giver as upon the receiver.... Children should be taught to give in the spirit of love and sweetness, and then there would be greater pleasure and more satisfaction in small things.... This year, 1898, Christmas comes on the Sabbath day, and thercfore festivities will be observed upon Saturday or Monday. —FEditorial RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE IN ALBERTA STAKE (CANADA): President Mary L. Woolf said there is a great mission for mothers.... She wished the sisters to be punctual and enjoy the spirit of God that will be given when in line with our duties. We should look after the poor and comfort those afflicted and downcast. We should also visit those who are coming in our midst and make them welcome. Desired to be energetic and fulfill the labors required of her.... Said, "Sisters, make an effort to attend your meetings, and the Lord will open up the way. Do not be backward in arising to bear your testimonies. It will strengthen you...." —Mary L. Ibey, Act. Sec. EIGHTY YEARS The years have crowned thee, dear, with glory, Though eighty snows have changed thy hair, From glossy dark to tinted whiteness— Thy face e'en now is grand and fair, And round thy life a halo lingers Like Indian summer's crimson hue, And purple fruitage rich with ripeness— Life's golden crown thus rests on you. —Lydia D. Alder "MUSINGS AND MEMORIES": Musings and Memories (by Emmeline B. Wells) is a volume of poems entirely of home production, and is very suitable as a gift for the holiday. 'The book is sufficiently clegant in appearance for any drawing room or library table. It contains three hundred pages and includes a stcel engraving of the author. It is for sale at the office of the Woman's Exponent, $2. —Mrs. E. B. Wells Templeton Building We should always keep a corner of our minds open and free, that we may make room for the opinions of our friends. Let us have heart and mind hospitality. —Selected ADVERTISEMENT: "Swift as the Eagle," the Chicago Special and the Colorado Special, fast mail trains inaugurated by the North-Western and Union Pacific. 'These new trains are a triumph of modern railroading... Six magnificent coaches... Two splendid palace sleeping cars, dining cars, Page 814 IGHT women have been named to the Hall of Fame for great Americans at New York University, all of them pioneers or crusaders in their respective fields: Mary Lyon, educator; Maria Mitchell, astronomer; Emma Willard, educator; Harriet Beecher Stowe, author of Uncle Tom's Cabin; Frances E. Willard, temperance reformer; Charlotte Cushman, actress; Alice Freeman Palmer, educator; Susan B. Anthony, suffragist and reformer. R. SARA JORDAN, who at seventy-four begins her busy days at five o'clock in the morning, commenced the study of medicine at a few weeks under thirty-three and was a specialist in gastroenterology (stomach and intestinal disorders) ready to practice as the third member of the beginning Lahey Clinic when thirty-nine. Except for her first year, she worked her way through medical school, also supporting a daughter. She became the only female president of the American Gastroenterological Association, and she now heads a staff of ten doctors in her field at Boston's vastly expanded Lahey Clinic. Dr. Jordan says that nobody should smoke cigarettes. But smoking with an ulcer is like pouring gasoline on a burning house.