[Vol45 | December 1958 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Annual | Author: Parker]
Annual General Relief Society Conference — 1958 Hulda Parker, Gencral Secretary-Treasurer HE Annual General Relief Society Conference was held in Salt Lake City on Wednesday and 'Thursday, October 8 and 9. For days before the conference convened, Relief Society leaders from all over the Church started converging in Salt Lake City. With the cancellation of the conference a year ago, because of the flu epidemic, there seemed to be a more than usual hungering on the part of these leaders for the inspiration that comes from assembling together in the Tabernacle to receive the counsel and instruction that would help them carry forward in their responsibilities in Relief Society. The opening session in the Tabernacle on Wednesday morning was for stake and mission officers and board members, at which challenging and inspirational addresses were given by President Joseph Fielding Smith and Elder Mark E. Petersen, the Relief Society advisors of the Council of the Twelve. President Belle S. Spafford also presented the Report and Official Instructions. The roll call in this session showed representation from thirteen missions and all but three stakes in the Church. Although mission Relief Society presidents were not in attendance at the conference, several missions were represented by district officers. 'The total attendance of 2312 included 2265 stake Relief Society leaders and forty-seven mission representatives. 'he music for this session was provided by the Page 794 Bonneville Stake Singing Mothers Chorus of 120 voices, with Shirley Swensen conducting and Elder Alexander Schreiner at the organ.. The general session for Relief Society members and the general public was held in the 'Tabernacle on Wednesday afternoon. As the main speaker, President David O. McKay delivered a most impressive address counselling the women of the Church regarding their great responsibilities as mothers and homemakers. Sister McKay accompanied him in attendance at this session. Other addresses were given by President Spafford, Counselor Marianne C. Sharp, Counselor Louise W. Madsen, and _ Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker. The Relief Society General Presidency and General Board members were also sustained. A 450-voice combined chorus of Singing Mothers from Southern California sang ""I'each Me, O Lord" and "My Soul Is Athirst for God." The chorus was conducted by Sister Florence Jepperson Madsen, with Elder Frank W. Asper at the organ. The participants in the chorus were from the following stakes: Bakersfield, Burbank, Covina, East Long Beach, East Los Angeles, Glendale, Inglewood, Long Beach, Los Angeles, Mt. Rubidoux, Orange County, Pasadena, Redondo, Reseda, San Bernardino, San Diego, San Diego East, San Fernando, Santa Ana, Santa Monica, and South Los Angeles. This chorus also provided the music for the Friday and Saturday sessions of General Conference. ANNUAL GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE— 1958 795 Courtesy Deseret News PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY SPEAKING AT THE GENERAL SESSION OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL CONIFERENCE, OCTOBER 8, 1958 Emma Ray Riggs McKay, wife of the President, is seated at the left, and Belle S$ Spafford, General President of Relief Society, is seated on the right. Elder LeGrand Richards (Ieft), and Elder Delbert L. Stapley (right), of the Council of the 'Twelve, are seated in the foreground. Singing Mothers may be secn at the back, 796 On Wednesday evening the Relief Society General Board received approximately 2200 stake board members and mission representatives at a beautifully appointed reception in the Relief Society Building. Departmental meetings were held in the 'Tabernacle 'Thursday morning and afternoon for stake and mission officers and board members. In these meetings impressive presentations were given introducing the educational courses of study and visiting teaching messages for the 1958-59 season. 'Theology and literature were featured in the morning. The theology course was discussed by Elder Roy W. Doxey, the author of the current course on the Doctrine and Covenants. This was followed by a presentation entitled, "The Lord Hath Spoken," and a testimony by Sister Jeanne Carr Orchard. The new literature course on American Literature was impressively introduced by the dramatic program, "Meet the New World."

The afternoon meeting featured visiting teacher messages and the social science course of study. Fruits of visiting teacher messages were portrayed through a demonstration entitled "Family Tell." The social science course on "The Latter-day Saint Family" was highlighted with a dialogue by Sisters Mildred B. Eyring and Edith P. Backman of the General Board and a reading with musical background by Sister Emily C. Wright entitled, "The Perfect Earth Home," which was taken from an address to Relief Society by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., in 1940. Separate departmental — sessions RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1958 then followed for presidencies, secretary-treasurers, Magazine representatives, and class leaders. All stake and mission class leaders met together for special demonstrations and instructions on teaching aids adapted to the current courses of study. Separate departments were also held the entire afternoon for music and work meeting leaders. I One of the outstanding features of the conference was a dramatic presentation given in the _presidencies department entitled "A Light Shining," which portrayed the broad horizons of visiting teaching. The music for this presentation was provided by the Holladay Stake Singing Mothers conducted by Sister Wilma Bunker, with Elder Roy M. Darley at the organ. It was the general feeling of those in attendance that this was a most outstanding Relief Society Conference, that the blessings of the Lord were felt in rich abundance in each of the sessions, and that the inspiration, counsel, and instructions given will redound to the good of the work of Relief Society throughout the Church. The following addresses have already appeared in the November issue of the Magazine: ""The Mission of Womankind," by President Belle S. Spafford; ""The Grand Key-Word of Relief Society," by Counselor Marianne C. Sharp; "The Key Is Turned,' by Counselor Louise W. Madsen; and ''Report and Official Instructions," by President Spafford. The address by President David O. McKay, "Three Realms in Which Woman's Influence Should Ever Be Paramount," appears in this issue of the Magazine.