[Vol45 | December 1958 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Fiction | Title: Sixty]
THREE  REALMS  IN  WHICH  WOMAN'S  INFLUENCE  SHOULD  EVER  BE  PARAMOUNT      789 
miles  distance.  I  noticed  the  differ-  social  economy,  study  and  progress, 
ence  in  transportation.  Sixty  years  and  all  kinds  of  learning,  or  par- 
before  this  recent  visit,  I  crossed  on  ticipation  in  any  and  all  things 
a  steamboat  to  Great  Britain.  It  which  contribute  to  the  fulness  of 
took,  as  I  remember,  about  seven-  her  womanhood  and  increase  her 
and-a-half  days.  That  morning  we  upbuilding  influence  in  the  world; 
had  been  only  fourteen  hours  from  but  I  do  know  that  there  are  three 
New  York,  and  we  were  delayed  by  areas  or  realms  in  which  women's 
head  winds  and  the  pilot  thought  influence  should  always  be  felt.  No 
it  best  to  land  at  Shannon,  Ireland,  matter  what  changes  take  place, 
to  refuel.  As  I  say,  it  took  fourteen  these  three  realms  should  be  domi- 
hours.  Think  of  the  progress  dur-  nated  always  by  the  beauty,  the  vir- 
ing  those  sixty  years!  Then  another  tue,  and  intelligence  of  womankind, 
thing,  as  we  were  being  driven  to  I  should  like  to  refer  to  those 
the  hotel,  I  was  surprised  at  the  three.  The  first  has  been  covered 
number  of  autos,  or  rather,  at  the  impressively  by  Sister  Spafford,  and 
absence  of  the  fine  Clydesdale  that  is  the  realm  of  home  building, 
horses  that  I  saw  sixty  years  before.  Next  to  that  is  the  realm  of  teach- 
drawing  heavily  loaded  lorries.  Not  ing,  and  the  third,  which  has  al- 
one did  we  see  during  that  entire  ready  been  emphasized,  the  realm 
trip  that  morning.  All  had  given  of  compassionate  service.  ''Some- 
way to  the  advance  in  building  and  day,"  writes  one  of  our  leading 
driving  of  automobiles,  trucks,  etc.  columnists,  ''when  women  realize 
Another  thing,  I  was  surprised  to  that  the  object  of  their  emancipa- 
see  a  lady  policeman  —  women  po-  tion  is  not  to  make  them  more  like 
licemen.  Sixty  years  before  that,  men,  but  more  powerfully  womanly, 
even  thirty  years  so  far  as  I  was  con-  and  therefore  of  greater  use  to  men 
cerned,  we  hadn't  thought  that  was  and  themselves,  and  society,  this 
a  field  for  women  to  enter.  And  I  implicit  demand  and  need  of  women 
learned,  while  I  was  in  London,  of  for  a  world  based,  not  on  mechani- 
the  efficiency  of  women  as  women  cal  but  on  human  principles,  may 
policemen.  break  through  as  the  most  important 
influence   upon   history,  and  bring 
TN  1930,  there  were  over  eight  mil-  with  it  a  renaissance  of  liberalism 
lion  women  workers  gainfully  em-  and  humanism." 
ployed.    Today,  as  we  have  learned,  Nor  is  it  necessary  to  convince  us 
there     are     twenty-eight     million,  of  the  potency  of  home  influence  in 
There  has  been  a  vast  increase  in  shaping  character.     There  are  cer- 
women    workers    during    the    last  tain  trusts  to  which  it  is  only  neces- 
twenty-five  years  in  various  occupa-  sary  to  call  attention  and  minds  in- 
tions  in  which,  formerly,  only  men  stinctively  assent  to  them.    Some  of 
participated.  And  this  great  increase  these  trusts  are  that  the  home  senti- 
is  particularly  among  married  wom-  ment  is  second  only  to  religion  in 
en.  influencing  the  human  mind,  and 
Now  I  don't  know  that  there  is  all  else  may  be  forgotten,  but  the 
any  objection   to  women   entering  experiences    of    childhood    will    re- 
the  fields  of  hterature,  science,  art,  main   undimmed   on   the  walls  of