[Vol45 | December 1958 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Lesson | Title: Work | Author: Barnett]
This requires a careful analysis of the motions made in accomplishing the task. What is the Industry has done much in the area of work simplification and has given us some real practical helps which we have applied to homemaking called "Six Principles of Work Simplification": Page 847 848 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1958 Principle 1. Leave out any part of the task you can. Does the job really need to be done, or can some part of it be left out? Throw out habits of work which are based on whim, fancy, or prejudiced mind. Principle 2. Make one task of two or more. Combine tasks — try to do one task as you do another. Principle 3. Keep things within easy reach. 'Take a good look at all storage facilities. Is there a place for everything, and is everything in its place? Well-planned storage of tools, supplies, clothing, books, etc. Can result in increased free time and energy for family members. Principle 4. Use the best tool. A conscious concern for all the tools used while doing a task will pay great dividends in the use of time and energy and the way one feels about the task. Principle 5. Make both hands work. Distribute effort to both hands, to both sides of the body, so that loads will be balanced. Principle 6. Use the best posture. Overfatigue is caused more often by poor posture habits than by the job itself. Consider travel distance and arrangement of equipment, work surface, cupboards, etc. Conform the tool to the body, rather than the body to the tool. Discussion Thoughts 1. Do you thik mechanical conveniences are the only means by which you can save time and energy in the home? Discuss. 2. Do you think it is lazy to sit down to do household tasks? 3. Is it worth the time and effort to take time to work out a new way of doing a task in order to do it better? 4. Dumng the discussion period encourage one or two to tell their most effective shortcut in homemaking. Bose. Re — Americas Literature — Meet the New World Lesson 6—The Mather Dynasty Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes, Dryden Press, New York, pp. 12-14; 61-73) For Tuesday, March 17, 1959 Objective: three generations of the Mathers. F nothing else, the Puritan mind was complex. One moment, the Puritan felt that he had fulfilled his calling and, having received God's grace, was "the very Top of Felicity'; the next moment, when his old sins triumphed anew,