[Vol45 | December 1958 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Fiction | Title: Rachel | Author: Embroidery]
Rachel Ann Giles Specializes in Fine Cut-work &mbroidery ACHEL Ann Giles of Heber City, Utah, now cighty-five years old, has loved her needle and thread hobbies ever since her childhood days when she cut and stitched doll clothes while herding cows on her father's ranch. Later, she learned to make quilt blocks and her quilting was famous throughout the valley. As a seamstress, she acquired the exacting arts of cutting, fitting, and expert finishing. Her greatest delight is her beautiful cut-work embroidery which has decorated hundreds of pillowslips and tablecloths and dresser sets. She has won many blue ribbons at the Wasatch County Fair and at the Utah State Fair. At the age of cighty-one she was awarded the grand championship ribbon at the Wasatch County Fair for her individual display. Since young womanhood Mrs. Giles has been a devoted Relief Society worker, acting in many capacities, including visiting teaching and for nine years as a ward president. She has eight children (including two foster children), twenty grandchildren, and thirtytwo grcat-grandchildren. Quick Little Gifts for Girls Clara Laster EVERY girl loves a handmade gift, and many of us have the desire to create something really beautiful for our daughters and their friends. Here's how to add glitter and a personal touch that will delight the hearts of girls the world over. Fo) re) o*} [Qe E>) fe) 0 of I JEWELED Coms AND Brusu Buy a plain comb and brush set from any five and dime store. Choose any color you wish, but clear or pink make the most expensive looking sets. Purchase a tube of jewelry glue from a hobby shop. Buy, also, large imitation diamonds and other colored stones that you might like. In order to give these a setting, purchase the small rings of beads to place around the stones. They are already made in this manner and cost about ten cents for three. If you wish, buy several small oblong stones and a package of pearls. When you have all your materials, arrange the stones on the comb and brush in an attractive pattern. When you decide on one, take away one stone at the time and squeeze a bit of glue on the brush, in position required, place stone on glue. Continue in this manner until comb and brush are beautifully decorated. Drying time is only a matter of minutes. Page 832 pee na anaARES att LT 'y, ) eCCCUCCC CCAR I \ GILDED WICKER BASKET Place a personal gift of undergarments in a gilded wicker basket, trimmed with dainty flowers. The basket can be used the year round. It can be purchased in drugstores, dime stores, and some grocery stores. 'The gold paint can be bought at paint and dime stores. For best results, buy the spray kind. When the basket is sprayed and dried, tie a cluster of flowers at the center, on the outside. Baskets can be sprayed in colors or with silver paint. Either way, they are truly lovely.