A Time-Keeper Needed
Some people seem absolutely lacking in a sense of time. If assigned fifteen minutes to speak on a topic they wander on for forty-five or fifty minutes, wearing their hearers out and often leaving only five or ten minutes for two or three speakers whom the people are anxious to hear and who have important topics to discuss. We wonder why presiding officers do not call these long-winded speakers to time.
SIMPLICITY and harmony feed the soul. Today I attended a funeral. No announcements were made. The two speakers and the musicians knew when they were to appear. The bishop merely nodded when they were to commence, and so the rites proceeded like beautiful music without a discordant note.
Lesson Department
Theology and Testimony
DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS
(First Week in December)
SIGNIFICANCE AND PURPORT
LESSON III
1. At a special conference held at Hiram, Ohio, November 1, 1831, it was decided to publish the "Book of Commandments." Section 1 of the Doctrine and Covenants, designated by the Lord as "my preface unto the book of my commandments" was received by revelation in the afternoon of that day. The same evening it was read by Oliver Cowdery to the assembly.
2. The Lord's Preface. This revelation is remarkable in many respects. In the first place, it contains twelve hundred words of especially well-written material. The task of preparing such a literary product would ordinarily require a far longer time than that in which Joseph produced it. Then, too, it will be recalled that Joseph was the presiding officer at the conference and accordingly had his attention divided among various other matters. But with the characteristic efficiency of a Seer, he prepared the document in the afternoon and had it ready for submission the same evening.
3. In the second place, the revelation meets all of the requirements of a well-written preface. The primary object of any preface is to furnish preliminary information concerning the subject, the point of view of the author, and the manner of treatment. Section 1 meets these requirements in remarkable detail. Note, for example, that verses 1-7 form the introduction, verses 8-36 the preface proper, and verses 37-39 the conclusion. These facts are well set forth in the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association Manual, 1906-1907, as follows:
The Introduction. (Verses 1-7.) A. The Speaker and the Command (1). B. Message to the Nations (2, 3). C. Messengers to be Sent Out (4, 6). D. Guarantee of Truth (5-7).
The Preface Proper (Verses 8-36). A. Authority of the Messengers (8-10). B. Necessity for the Message (11-16). C. Restoration of the Gospel (17-23). D. Authority of the Book (24-30). E. Necessity of Obeying the Commandments (31-33). F. Destiny of Earth and Man (34-36).
The Conclusion (Verses 37-39). A. Guarantee of Truth (37-38). B. Seal of the Book (39).
4. Students are urged to study carefully the entire section and to compare it step by step with the outline above given. It constitutes an excellent preview of the entire book of Doctrine and Covenants, and is set forth in language pleasant to read and easy to comprehend.
5. Meaning of the Name. The term "doctrine" as used in the caption of the Doctrine and Covenants signifies a set of truths given by the Lord for the guidance of his people. Not all of the world's doctrines however are of Divine origin. To illustrate: The philosopher may reason out a set of opinions which he advocates in connection with his subject. These may change from time to time with increased advancement. Many of the doctrines of the early scientists are also vastly different from those of today. Doctrines of Divine origin, on the other hand, are never negated, since they are based on actual verities. The doctrine of the divinity of Christ, for example, or of the necessity of baptism, will never change.
6. In its general application the term "covenant" indicates a mutual agreement between two or more parties. As used in the title of the Doctrine and Covenants it implies God's promise of blessing to those who abide by his law. Between individuals, covenants are not always kept. According to civil law, when one of the contracting parties fails to keep his agreement, the other is released. In the case of covenants made between God and man, Deity is never the violator. Moreover, God is not bound when man breaks his promise. Conversely, when man keeps his promise, the Lord cannot be released. Here are his words: "I the Lord, am bound when ye do what I say; but when ye do not what I say, ye have no promise." (Doc. And Cov. 82:10.)
7. The term "Doctrine and Covenants" therefore signifies a series of truths given to man of the Lord, together with an irrevocable promise of reward to all who obey. In the following unmistakable words God has challenged his children to the test: "Prove me now herewith, saith the Lord of hosts, if I will not open you the windows of heaven, and pour you out a blessing, that there shall not be room enough to receive it." (Malachi 3:10.) It is truly heartening for man to be assured that when he does his part, God will not fail him; that promised rewards are as sure to be forthcoming as daylight follows the appearance of the sun. Just so sure are the covenants of God with man.
8. Language of the Book. It is also encouraging to know that God's promises are couched in the language of common folk and not in the abstract language of the learned few. Deity explains that inasmuch as the Gospel might be carried to the world by the humble of the earth, he has caused that his commandments should be written after the manner of their language and understanding. Following is his statement: "But that every man might speak in the name of God the Lord, even the Savior of the world; that faith also might increase in the earth; that mine everlasting covenant might be established; that the fulness of my gospel might be proclaimed by the weak and the simple unto the ends of the world, and before kings and rulers. Behold, I am God and have spoken it; these commandments are of me, and were given unto my servants in their weakness, after the manner of their language, that they might come to understanding." (Doc. And Cov. 1: 20-24.)
9. Students of the Doctrine and Covenants may therefore proceed with full assurance that the meaning and purpose of God are clear and easily understood. Deity has not given his message in terms of ambiguity or equivocation, but rather in language which the masses can readily understand. Thanks be to God that he loves the common folk.
10. Responsibility of Writing in the Name of God. It should not be understood however that documents such as these can be produced without the assistance of Divine command. This is well illustrated by the following historical incident. At a conference held at Hiram, Ohio, some of those who were present criticized the language of the revelations and thought in their hearts that they themselves might improve it. Divining their intent, the Lord through Joseph Smith spoke to them as follows: "Now, seek ye out of the Book of Commandments, even the least that is among them, and appoint him that is the most wise among you; or, if there be any among you that shall make one like unto it, then ye are justified in saying that ye do not know that they are true; but if ye cannot make one like unto it, ye are under condemnation if ye do not bear record that they are true." (Doc. And Cov. 67: 6-8.) William E. McLellan, reputed to be a wise man, accepted the challenge and attempted to bring forth a literary production superior to the revelations. In this he is said to have utterly failed, as a result of which, faith was greatly increased among those present. Joseph adds that it is an awful responsibility to write in the name of the Lord. (See History of the Church, Vol. I, pp. 224-226.)
LESSON DEPARTMENT
12. Revelations Given as the Result of Asking. It is interesting to observe that many of the revelations given in the Doctrine and Covenants came as the direct result of asking. Indeed it is doubtful that any one of the revelations was wholly volunteered by the Lord. In Joseph's own account, many of the revelations are preceded by such statements as "I inquired and received the following," etc. His visitation by the Father and the Son was also the result of prayer.
13. It is only natural that God should reserve his blessings for those who seek them. The same condition exists in all the affairs of human achievement. The individual who succeeds in college, on the farm, or in the shop is he who aggressively desires to do so. The idler and the indifferent are characteristically non-progressive wherever found. God's oft-repeated promise, "Ask and ye shall receive," is as fully true of material things as it is of things of the Spirit. Asking of course commonly consists of more than mere words.
14. Once the necessity of asking is fully learned, progress is well begun. Wisdom in asking is also essential to success. Prayer?in its most productive form coupled with effort?is the key to spiritual achievement. Surely success should be worthy the asking.
15. Answers to Questions. Thus the revelations contained in the Doctrine and Covenants are essentially answers to petitions for spiritual enlightenment; some of them are answers to direct questions. The revelations can be most easily understood when the questions that provoked them are known, also the historical conditions immediately antecedent to their reception. It is from this point of view that most of the following lessons will be approached.
16. The efficiency of this method is well illustrated in connection with the revelation contained in Section 2, which consists of Biblical quotations made by the angel Moroni to Joseph Smith on the night of September 21, 1823. The revelation follows: "Behold, I will reveal unto you the Priesthood, by the hand of Elijah the prophet, before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord. And he shall plant in the hearts of the children the promises made to the fathers, and the hearts of the children shall turn to their fathers. If it were not so, the whole
612
earth would be utterly wasted at his coming."
17. If taken alone this revelation is more or less meaningless. But when it is studied in connection with related matters?as will be done in the next succeeding lesson?its message and purport are simple and easy to understand.
Questions for Discussion and Review
In what respects do you regard the revelation given in Section 1 most remarkable?
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Give the meaning of the terms "doctrine" and "covenants."
Why is God bound if his children obey?
Why did God cause his word to be written in simple language?
Why is it a great responsibility to write in the name of the Lord?
Why does the Lord give to those who ask?
In what sense is the Doctrine and Covenants an answer to prayer?
Why can we understand the revelations best when we know the conditions that provoked them?
Teachers' Topic
THE BEATITUDES
Aim: To enable us to more fully appreciate the Beatitudes and to apply their beautiful truths in our daily lives.
"Blessed are the Meek, for they shall inherit the earth."
Whom does Jesus call the blessed people? Those who are meek. By meek is meant?gentle, kind, indulgent. He who is meek is of gentle and long-suffering disposition; is submissive and complacent; not proud, but humble and lowly. These virtues are all opposed to pride or conceit.
Meekness must not be confused with self-depreciation. Meekness is a virtue which can be exercised both towards God and towards man; and inasmuch as it involves self-control, it is not a weak but an heroic quality. "He that is slow to anger is better than the mighty, and he that ruleth his spirit, than he that taketh a city." Prov. 16:32.
In the life and labors of Jesus, meekness was manifest to a marked degree. He was willing at all times to submit to the will of God, saying?"Thy will and not mine be done." In loving kindness he mingled with the lowly, and even with the sinners in need of inspiration of a better life.
Moses the great prophet and leader of ancient days was a man of meekness and humility. Reference is made to this outstanding virtue in Numbers 12:3, "Now the man Moses was very meek above all the men which were upon the face of the earth."
The life of Jesus was an example of this great doctrine?"Whosoever will be great among you, let him be your minister."?Matthew 20:26.
Let us then weed out intolerance, pride, and selfishness, and with gratitude in our hearts make meekness a habit of our lives. By so doing, we may enlarge and enrich our lives, and live in a world of peace and good will.
Our blessings are not always immediate, so our faith must prompt us to look far into the future for our rewards. We must struggle with our problems?oftentimes poverty and sickness?but be patient in the thought that our blessings are of an eternal character, and will endure forever.
LESSON DEPARTMENT
Literature
(Third Week in December)
THE DELIGHT OF GREAT BOOKS
Faust?GOETHE
"We must daily fight our lives anew to attain an inner freedom."?Goethe.
It would seem fitting to begin this study planned to recognize the centenary of the universal poet, Goethe, by quoting from a leading modern student of the poet, Henry Nevison: "Goethe was a true humanist, a superman, a magnetic personality, a man of the world, a man of letters, a scientist, a statesman, an artist,?an universal man."
Goethe, the Man. There are more biographies of Goethe than of any other great literary figure. Goethe's heart, which few men knew, was as great as his intellect; a man in whom two personalities were at war.
"Twin brethren dwell within me twins of strife And either fights to free him from the other, One grips the earth in savage lust of life, Clutches the ground and wallows in the mire; The other lifts himself and struggles to be free Tearing the chains that bind him to his brother, Beating the air with wings of vast desire Toward the far realm of his great ancestry." ?Faust.
Goethe's life was devoted consciously to self-development; hence, his works constituted one great confession. The poet cut deep into his own heart as he Boswelized his own life in "Faust," "Werther," "Tasso," "Meister Wilhelm."
1. Parentage and Boyhood. A gay pleasure-loving girl of seventeen, Katherine Textor, the eldest daughter of Frankfort's chief magistrate, became the wife of Rath Goethe, a pedantic bachelor of thirty-nine, already retired from business. During the early months of their married life the husband boresomely plied his young wife with knowledge. Their son, Wolfgang, was born at Frankfort-on-the-Main, Germany, August 28, 1749. Of his parental heritage Goethe said:
"From father came my sturdy frame To serious tasks impelling; From mother zest for life, the game, And joy of story telling."
Goethe's mother was his life-long friend and confidant. From his father Goethe received his many-sided education, Latin, Greek, French, Italian and English being included. A doting grandmother completed the boyhood picture. She it was who gave her grandchildren, Wolfgang and his sister Cornelia, a puppet theatre. Rare good times came to the children from this source.
Frankfort, the scene of Goethe's boyhood, was a large commercial center with 33,000 inhabitants, and noted for its international fairs and imperial pageants. It was during such activities that the boy, Wolfgang, became interested in the theatre. "My passion grew with every performance, though I had to endure the constant reproaches of my father."?Goethe.
Many other interesting experiences came to the lad. His interest in the merchant Jews of the city led him to learn Hebrew. Particularly did his sympathy go out to the people of the lower strata of the city. From the
614
boyhood years came many experiences which found place in the literary products of maturity.
2. Student Days. Goethe was sent to Leipzig to study law. He went submissive but morbid, with no interest in law. Little was accomplished beyond an interest in literature and art. Unquestionably his life was misguided and licentious during this period. The scene in Auerbach's cellar depicted in "Faust" is probably a close reproduction of certain wild orgies of these days. A breakdown in health closed the period. It was a depressing situation when the invalid returned home from his early university career dissipated and devoid of energy or enthusiasm.
During the period of convalescence, Goethe became acquainted with Susanna Von Klettenberg, a woman with an exquisite spiritual nature of the Moravian faith. No writings of Goethe revealed the spiritual wrestlings of this period, but the spirit and philosophy of Fraulein Von Klettenberg are recorded in "Wilhelm Meister."
It was a youth refined by his religious experience and sobered by an illness which had brought him to the very brink of the grave, who now set out to win a degree of Doctor of Laws at Strassburg in 1770. "Here Goethe discovered his genius and found his soul."
Two great events mark this period of studentship; the friendship with Herder, the great literary critic, and a beautiful love idyll. The poet Herder created in the young poet an enthusiasm for the legendary background of Hebrew and German literature. After several months of the beautiful love idyll with Frederika, a rural minister's daughter, Goethe found himself confronted with a great crisis. "From my boyRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
hood up it has been my wish and purpose to develop completely all that is in me and to make my own existence harmonious," Goethe says, in explaining his decision to make the renunciation of the love of a noble woman. The desired degree obtained, Goethe returned to Frankfort.
3. Early Years of Authorship. To the satisfaction of his father, Goethe settled down to the profession of advocate upon his return to Frankfort. While practicing a profession he despised, he escaped by writing a great historical drama "Gotz," the story of a German patriot of the time of the Reformation. The drama took Germany by storm. Friends gathered round the author and life became more companionable.
Out of two friendships of the next few years, Kestner, a young lawyer, and his fiancee, Charlotte Buff, came Goethe's greatest novel, "Werther." The novel is an intimate study of a human soul in travail revealing the relationship of man with a beloved woman, with nature, and with God. By 1774 Goethe stood at the forefront of the intellectual movement of his time. Yet during this period "he was perpetually rent by the contradictions of his own nature, now delighting in companionship, now imperious in his demand for solitude, today religious, tomorrow cynical, sensual and then transcendental, all egotism or all self-surrender." Goethe's greatest works were conceived during this Daemonic struggle. It was the end of youth?the youth of a genius incarnate.
4. Weimar. At this time Goethe's life changed entirely. He accepted the invitation of the Duke of Weimar to a position on the Privy Council of the duchy,
LESSON DEPARTMENT
and thus had direct charge of the cultural and intellectual life of the duchy. During the early years of diplomatic life Goethe wrote the classical dramas "Tasso" and "Iphigenie" for the theatre.
A great friendship now came to Goethe, Charlotte Von Stein, a lady of literary tastes married to the duke's master of horse. She became a reservoir for the flood of Goethe's imagination. To her he penned the lines:
"Tell me what is Destiny preparing, Tell me why we two are drawn so near, Aeons since were you a sister sharing Kin with me, or else a wife most dear; Everything I am, my every feature You divined, my every nerve could thrill Read me at a glance?no other creature Knows me as you know, nor ever will." ?Goethe.
In the closeness of this friendship Goethe perceived a call to something higher, more inspiring. Forcibly restraining the physical elements in his nature, the friendship continued; destiny seemed to say "Daemon" and genius say "Self-Master" as he vacillated between sexual desire and spiritual longing. Goethe resorted to seclusion withdrawing from his court mansion to a garden house on the outskirts of Weimar, occupying his leisure hours with an intense study of science.
Goethe next took a long desired visit to Rome. Traveling without a servant, he lived and learned freely. The effect of Rome was tranquilizing. The work on "Faust" progressed. Of this period Goethe said: "I believe in God again. I feel as if I had come back to my birthplace. I was pining under a gloomy sky. Now I feel as a prisoner released. Now I am a free man."
Upon Goethe's return to Weimar, he took Christiane Vulpius as his wife. She was a young, fervent simple nature, fresh as the dawn. Mating gave to the poet home, paternity, and most of all anchorage. This union became a great social barrier to the poet. There followed barren years in Goethe's poetic life. "Faust" reflects an intellectual loneliness as the cause:
"The treasures of the mind that I have hoarded Now I possess them seem an idle show I count them up at last, yet am accorded Nothing of a soul's revivifying glow Not by a hair's breadth have I risen higher No nearer to my infinite desire." ?Faust.
5. The Brotherhood of Genius. The friendship of Goethe and Schiller is one of the great chapters in German literary history. The two men differed greatly in temperament and mentality. A thousand letters recorded the friendship between Goethe, the realist, and Schiller, the idealist. The influence of this friendship is revealed in "Hermann and Dorothea," an epic idyll of surpassing beauty built on the Homeric pattern with a simple love story for a theme.
6. Closing Years. Ill health and disappointment caused Goethe to again seek freedom in Italy. His spiritual life was again stabilized. "Faust" now became a new thing to the poet. He changed it from a human tragedy to a world drama. It became the epitome of his life, the receptacle of his highest wisdom, a product of his spiritual evolution.
Stormy days at Weimar caused Goethe to withdraw from political life. Finally, the discord reached the theatre and Goethe resigned as its director. Friends were passing away, and a new generation of men at court held him aloof. The death of his wife left a gap in Goethe's home. His only son, August, had married a flippant, friv-
616
olous girl. The home became upset by drunken revels and his income squandered. The world drama of "Faust" is now completed. The noble monologues with which the drama closes are as personal poetry as Goethe ever wrote. Death came March 22, 1832, as the poet asked that the shutters to his room be opened for "more light." All his life he had sought untiringly for "more light" on the riddle of life, and he like his "Faust," passed on with the mystery unsolved.
In conclusion Goethe's life is not merely a life, it is an epoch. It represents the Golden Age of Germany's rich literature. Of the 150 volumes of Goethe's literary works, the following bear the stamp of eternity: "Faust," "Tasso," "Hermann and Dorothea," "Werther," "Meister Wilhelm," "Iphigenie" and his own autobiography.
"Faust"?A World Drama. "Faust" is coming to be regarded as one of the chief literary treasures of the world. It is a series of profound problems which cannot be grasped by a mere cursory reading. The two parts are very different, yet there is one fundamental thought or spiritual movement. Santayana, the great philosophic student of "Faust" says, "It was written to touch the heart, to bewilder the mind, to humanize, to indicate a philosophy of life?that he who strives strays, yet in that straying finds salvation."
Goethe said of his great drama in his last letter written March 17, 1832, "It is more than sixty years since the general plan of "Faust" lay before me in my youth."
Goethe uses for his drama the old medieval Faust legend recorded in 1587 as "The History of the Damnable Life and Deserved Death of
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
John Faustus." The story briefly, is that of a man, Dr. Faustus, gifted with powers of magic who for twenty-four years of wild pleasures sold his soul to the devil.
Goethe said of the marionette tale of "Faust" he witnessed as a child: "It murmured with many voices in my soul. I, too, had wandered into every department of knowledge and had returned early enough dissatisfied with the vanity of science."
Mephistopheles, the profound dramatic creation of Goethe, is a symbol and an individual. He defines himself as the "spirit that denies." He denies love, whereby the whole creation moves upward. His lust is for power. He has the intellect of a god.
The Drama.
1. The Prologue. In the prologue in heaven, Mephistopheles is found sneering at the world as God had made it. Man to him is a discontented creature. God mentions Faust as an exception and gives Mephistopheles permission to tempt Faust with material pleasures. If Mephistopheles succeeds in satisfying Faust with such worldly pleasures and powers as are at his command, the soul of Faust shall be his.
2. The Drama?Part I. It is midnight on Easter eve. Faust, an old man, a doctor of science and philosophy and gifted with powers of magic, is in his study. He is discontented with all his knowledge. To satisfy his longing for more knowledge he summons by magic the Earth Spirit. The interview leaves Faust still unsatisfied. Faust is deterred from taking poison to end his wretchedness by the sound of bells greeting the Easter dawn. As the morning advances Faust with one of his students, Wagner, walks in the village and greets the
LESSON DEPARTMENT
villagers who respect Faust greatly. Upon the return to the Gothic study Mephistopheles in the garb of a traveling scholar appears. He urges Faust to give up his musty books and studies and to go out and enjoy as the world enjoys. Faust is sure that the world's pleasures cannot satisfy him, but he makes a contract with Mephistopheles: "If thou canst ever delude me into being pleased with myself, or cheat me with enjoyment, be that day my last. If ever I say to the passing moment, 'Stay, thou art so fair,' then thou mayest bind me in thy bonds."
The contract signed, the two start out upon their adventures. Faust is first taken to Auerbach's cellar, where a band of rough carousing students drink and make merry. The scene is as coarse as we might have expected Mephistopheles to make it, but Faust only turns away in disgust. Next Faust is taken to the Witch's Kitchen. Here by a magic brew, Faust's youth is restored. From now the beautiful and well-known story of Gounod's opera proceeds. Faust sees Margaret a beautiful peasant girl as she leaves the church. Mephistopheles persuades Faust to visit the chamber of Margaret in her absence. A box of jewels is left in the chamber by Mephistopheles. Margaret finds the jewels later and is charmed with them. Faust meets Margaret in a neighbor's garden. The love story progresses rapidly. Faust visits Margaret in her chamber while her mother sleeps under the influence of a sleep-potion provided by Mephistopheles. Now the story turns to tragedy. Margaret's mother never wakes, Margaret's brother is killed in a duel by Faust. Faust flees for his life. Time passes, Faust cannot forget Margaret. At last he insists
617
that Mephistopheles take him back. They find Margaret facing execution for the death of her babe. Too long and too far tried by love and suffering her mind wanders. In a scene of the utmost beauty and pathos?one of the greatest scenes in all literature?Faust strives to rescue Margaret from her fate. She recognizes some evil power in Mephistopheles, refusing his aid. She casts herself upon the mercy of God and dies. Her last thought is for Faust.
The Drama?Part II. Mephistopheles promised Faust that he would show him "the little world and then the great." The "little world" is the world of Faust's individual passions, emotions, and aspirations. Faust is now to see the "great world" where the interests which shape society, government, and the human race are displayed. Much has been said of the second part of the drama. As one critic suggests: "In youth we live in our own entirely personal world; when later our interests mingle with great world-interests, with science, government, war, civics, politics, finance, great human enterprises and we try to find meanings; they are often obscure and too subtle for our grasp." Mephistopheles begins to try to satisfy Faust on a grander scale. Faust and his companion appear at the court of the German Emperor. In a magnificent scene of court masquerade the whole world of wealth and splendor go by. Faust is given a position of honor at the court. Mephistopheles by means of magic organizes a new financial system. Wealth is enjoyed by all. Faust is still unsatisfied. The world of Beauty is now presented to Faust. In a gorgeous pageant we see the revival of classic beauty and the rebirth of Helen of 618 Troy traditionally the most beautiful woman of all time.. A panorama of the Revel of the Classic Witches or the Walpurgis Night covers three thousand years from Homer to Byron. In this great revel all the legendary figures of Greek life come to life. Faust is united with Helen. A son, Euphorion, the Spirit of Modern Poetry, is born to them. Euphorion is restless, masterful and wild. He finally falls to destruction as he scales a peak. Helen vanishes also as she tries to save her son. Faust, not satisfied yet, returns to reality. He becomes a statesman, an empire builder. Faust now conceives a plan for serving his fellowmen. His plan is to reclaim a wide stretch of land from the ocean and make "a free land on which may dwell a free people." |Mephistopheles is still assisting Faust by his magic powers. To complete his project, Faust needs the strip of land where Philemon, an old man, has his cottage. Mephistopheles sets fire to the cottage, the old man and his wife are burned. At last Faust realized that he must be content with his own powers. Faust continues to work. Years pass and he is blind. He finds comfort in the thought that others will carry on the work. Generation after generation will be benefited by that which he began. The vision grows far reaching and splendid. Here is at last a satisfying moment?when Faust sees his work blessing for aeons his fellow-men. At last is a moment Faust would detain. In the last splendid soliloquy of Faust we read the wisdom he has learned. "No man deserves life or freedom who does not daily win them anew." Faust at last sees life in its true relationship. 4, Epilogue. The last scene is laid in heaven. Mephistopheles claims the soul of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Faust, but no worldly pleasure had satisfied Faust, it was his desire to work as man for man. Margaret has long waited Faust's coming. She leads Faust's spirit to its Heavenly bliss. The great drama of "Faust" is built around the great human need, unselfishness?the sacrifice of self for others. The strength of the drama is because the theme of self-sacrifice is magnificent and ennobling. The magic in the drama is used to represent selfishness. The law and order of the world are set aside by magic. "Selfishness is in its essence the preference of self above law and order, and law and order represent the rights and benefits of others. This desire to set aside universal law for the sake of personal benefit is common to humanity." Faust seeking happiness selfishly tests and tries life. He is saved by persistent aspiration. Life to Faust was a quest. There is no greater optimism in all the world's literature than in "Faust": "God's world is good." "Who loves no more and errs no more had better far be buried." "Waste not a thought on the things that must pass, to become immortal, that's the task." "The good must triumph." ?Goethe. Suggestions for Study. A. Materials. 1. Faust........----6-Goethe 2, Faust (Opera)..... Gounod 3. Goethe.......Ludwig 4. Goethe and His Woman, Friends.........(Crawford 5. Goethe, the Man and the Poet... E. E Nevison B. Projects. 1. Musical Selections from "Faust." 2. The story of the Faust legend. 3. The story of "St. Cyprian of LESSON DEPARTMENT Antioch." (A drama _ based on the Faust legend by Calderon. ) 4, Discussion: Magic and Alchemy in the Middle Ages. LITERARY LESSONS The Literary Lessons for 1932-33 will be: 1. The Delight of Great Books (The Bible)?Erskine. 619 2, Le Morte D'Arthur?Malory. 3. Faust?Goethe. 4. Sir Walter Scott. 5. The Ordeal of Richard Feverel?Meredith. 6. Romeo and Juliet ? Shakespeare. 7. Huckleberry Finn? Mark Twain. 8. Irish National Poetry. 9. Moby Dick?Melville. Social Service (Fourth Week in December ) III. Many people would like to make improvements, but, seeing the complexity of their lives, find it 'quite a hopeless task. The first objective of this lesson is to have the class members appreciate that improvement in any part of our living improves the general level. The second purpose in this lesson is to teach the class members how to select the points for improvement. This is illustrated specifically by questions evolved out of the reports of the White House Conference investigations. Procedure Suggestions:: 1. Introduce the lesson by reading to the class and discussing the definitions of social progress given in the supplementary grater ial given below. 2. Discuss in class the psychological analysis of thought as applied to selecting problems for solution. It will be more interesting if every class member could during the month actually work out or formulate and report on the solution of one of her own problems. Read to the class the statement on the relation of knowledge to problem solving?White House Conference, 1930, pp. 12-13; p. 23. 3. Assign for individual study and report the facts given in the How THE Facts Raise PROBLEMS. Following references to the Report of the White House Conference, 1930: Facts on Present Living 'Conditions, pp. 10-12. General Facts, pp. 19-20. Use of Facts in Adult Education, p. 36. Status of the Family, pp. 142-3. Child Labor, pp. 202-210. Defectives, pp. 232-234, Delinquency, pp. 341-2. As each report is given to the class have the class members refer to the Children's Charter (published in Relief Society Magazine, May, 1931), and relate the facts given in the report to a provision in the charter. In this way make clear that the Children's Charter is a statement of generalizations of needs as indicated by the great body of facts collected by the committees of the conference. 4. The class members could then take a few of the provisions of the charter and formulate a series of things to be done in the locality in order to make progress toward the desired goal. For example under Number XII parents might ask about children crossing streets; walking along streets, especially at night}; hazards because 'school is near a high-way; dangerous place  for play; condition of repair of play apparatus at school; etc. Supplementary Material: a. The 'Children's Charter. B. The Meaning of Progress? Quotations from Snedden?Educational Sociology for Beginners." "General social progress is a very difficult thing for even trained social scientists to estimate. But every reader of these pages can make hundreds of useful estimates of particular kinds of progress, and especially as achieved by particular peoples or classes of peoples"? (p. 408). "Progress towards the better life, more abundant life, longer life, freer life, can only be measured when we shall have agreed upon standards of what is better. If we agree that it is better that we have little (few), rather than much (many), tuberculosis, or famine, or infant mortality, or homeless children, or ragged women, or drunken men, or deaths in early manhood, or train wrecks, or bank failures, or crimes, or failed crops, or illiterate adults, or musicless homes, or corrupt legislators, or untrained workers, etc., then we can measure progress along these particular strands?or retrogression. Along these lines America has certainly made much progress'? (pp. 415-416). "Let us measure as many particular kinds of increases or decreases in agreed upon "social goods' as we can"? (p. 416). C. The meaning of problem solving: Quotations from Boraas: '"Teaching to Think." "Yes we all know what it is to meet a problem, to be perplexed. It means a situation in which doing the customary things will not avail"? (p. 133). If this quotation were always wholly true we would be thinking much more than we do. In those matters which affect us individually with immediate discomfort we are conscious of the difficulty or problem. In cooperative social activities the immediate results of which affect others more directly we are not so sure that customary things are not availing. To induce us to think and study, therefore, we must be made to sense the presence of issues, difficulties or unsatisfactory conditions. Once we have these points of need located we enjoy thinking and studying out the solutions and trying in practice to apply the result of our thinking. "12. Progress in any field depends directly on the appearance of perplexities, which become so insistent that something must be done. Persons who are interested in progress welcome problems and perplexities as real opportunities. Persons interested in keeping everything as it is regard the appearance of problems and perplexities as a misfortune. "13, Within the group, difficulties at first appear as an indefinite annoyance. Those individuals who are most sensitive to the annoyance and who can raise it to the level of consciousness, formulate it, and state it so that it enters the consciousness of the group, become the leaders. "14. The creative or constructive efficiency of an individual varies directly as his ability to become conscious of and cope with real perplexities (pp. 138-9). "Given a certain. Perplexity, a vision of what we want to accomplish, and sufficient information, the difficulty will not be overcome unless we actually use the information available;' that is, make it work toward the end to be attained. One must begin by formulating tentative solutions about which the facts at hand may be grouped and for the verification or disproval of which LESSON DEPARTMENT new information may be sought. Perhaps the most common criticism of school; people is that they know a great deal but have very little ability or skill in using what they know. Nothing else reveals fertility or pliability of mind so well as readiness and skill in forming hypotheses or tentative explanations and a willingness to modify them as the conditions seem to require (p. 145).
621
References:
Snedden: Educational Sociology for Beginners, p. 408.
Snedden: Educational Sociology for Beginners, pp. 415-6.
Snedden: Educational Sociology for Beginners, p. 416.
Boraas: Teaching to Think, p. 133.
Boraas: Teaching to Think, pp. 138-9.
Boraas: Teaching to Think, p. 145.
The Granite Furniture Co. IN SUGARHOUSE
Extends Its 23rd Conference Greeting to Visitors
We have many outside customers who come to us and who always save money on what they buy, often enough to pay their expenses to the CONFERENCE.
OUT OF THE HIGH RENT DISTRICT?4 BIG STORES
SEE THE NEW EUREKA VACUUM CLEANER NEW?MODERN?BEAUTIFUL
With Full Floating Brush, Beautiful Red Bag and 14 Other Major Improvements
This super-powered Eureka De Luxe cleans deeply, swiftly and thoroughly?removing all deeply embedded, stubborn dirt by "High Vacuum"?the identical cleaning principle of all costly installed systems built into large buildings and hotels. The new "full floating" Brush automatically removes all lint, hair and other surface litter.
$5.00 Down Balance on Easy Terms
Eureka Vacuum Cleaner Co. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 177 East Broadway Phone Wasatch 4764
Your Class Leaders CAN MAKE YOUR Theology Lessons Much More Interesting If They Have A Copy Of
Doctrine and Covenants Commentary
By HYRUM M. SMITH and J. M. SJODAHL
Price, $4.00, postpaid.
DESERET BOOK COMPANY Salt Lake City, Utah
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Complete Suits for Men and Women?Children's Clothing a Specialty Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail, Telephone and Telegraph Orders Temple and Burial Clothes Variety of Grades and Prices
 , Utah
"Do you like children?" queried the prospective mistress.
"Do yez expect ter get a Roosevelt fer five dollars a week?" replied the applicant.
At a movie the other day a picture was shown entitled: "As God Made It." Immediately following the projection of the title on the screen came the flash: "Approved by the Ohio Board of Censors."
In the days of Henry Clay, a Kentucky farmer sent a servant to Lexington with a note for the president of a certain bank. When the man returned he said to his master: "I met Marse Henry Clay in the bank and had a conversation with him."
"Indeed! And on what topic did you and Mr. Clay converse?" inquired the master with interest.
The darky removed his hat and made a sweeping bow.... "Says Mr. Clay to me.". And another very low bow. "And I the same to Mr. Clay."
For HALLOWEEN
Whether it's a Harvest Festival or a house party... A Ward Fair or just a good old-time dance...
You'll find that we can furnish you with invitations, tickets, handbills, and advertising and dance programs that have just the right Hallowe'en atmosphere.
Call on us or write for suggestions and prices.
A COMPLETE PRINTING AND BINDING SERVICE
The Deseret News Press 29 Richards St. Salt Lake City
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Insure the health of you and yours this winter by preserving
UTAH FRUITS With UTAH SUGAR
No better fruit No better sugar Both low in price
BLUE BLAZE COAL CO. SALT LAKE CITY
Order From Your Local Dealer
A FAMOUS OVERALL MADE BETTER STILL!
?NOW THAT Mountaineer Overalls Are Equipped With Stop Loss Pockets
The new, exclusive, patented feature that has aroused the enthusiasm of workmen everywhere. Saves time, saves tools and valuables?and saves temper.
THEY COST YOU NO MORE!
Ask your dealer for Mountaineer Overalls and Work Suits equipped with Stop-Loss Pockets.
Manufactured in Salt Lake City by Z. C. M. I. Clothing Factory
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
MRS J H CANNON 136 E G ST
For the PRESENT and the FUTURE
This is the one plan which creates an estate immediately, and maintains it with Annual, Semi-annual or Quarterly Premium Payments of only 1 to 3 Per Cent of the Principal Amount. The safest, easiest, surest method. The principal amount is there at the start. Dividends are paid each year, as all Beneficial Policyholders share in the net earnings.
Life Insurance is the One Savings Plan That Has Maintained a Value of 100 Per Cent and is Always Withdrawable "Right Now"
BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. Home Office?Salt Lake City
If it's a Beneficial Policy it's the best Insurance you can buy
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
HEBER J. GRANT, President E. T. RALPHS, General Manager