The Soul's Mainspring By Judge Nephi Jensen RELIGIOUS teacher appearA ed before his class one morning, holding a watch in his hand. He commenced his lesson discussion by saying: "T have here a little machine. It is round in shape and a little flat. It is called a watch. Something within it ticks constantly at definitely measured intervals. This ticking sound indicates that the machine is in operation. Something makes the watch go, as we say. What is it? It is not the case, nor the wheels, nor the dial, nor the hands on the dial." "Tt is energy,' dent. "Exactly," assented the teacher. "Nothing moves without energy or power, but what furnishes the energy?" "The main spring," responded a number of students in concert. The main spring makes the watch go because there is energy or power in this fine coil of highly tempered steel. There is something in the human soul comparable to this bundle of sensitive steel in the watch. It is the thing that motivates all our higher actions. What is it? If you were to ask the man on the street what it is that moves him to action, he would be apt to tell you it is desire. And if you were disinclined to accept his conclusion, he would very likely quote for you the familiar aphorism, "Desire is the main spring of action." This terse conclusion passes current as unassailable truth. But is the epigram true? Let us see. You desire Knowledge, because you are convinced that it will aid you in living a larger life. You desire skill because you are persuaded that it will equip you to do life's higher tasks. You desire wisdom because you believe it will enable you to live beautifully and nobly. In a word, you desire the things you believe are desirable. Dr. Walter Goodnow Everett calls the "desires" that "push us onward," "will attitudes." He is not alone in thinking that the will is the soul's dominant impelling power. Philosophers, poets, and sages of every land and clime have held the same high conception of the will. Possibly no one has spoken more impressively of it than Ella Wheeler Wilcox: "There is no chance, no destiny, no fate Can circumvent or hinder or control The firm resolve of a determined soul. Gifts count for nothing; will alone is great; 566 All things give way before it soon or late, What obstacle can stay the mighty force Of the sea seeking river in its course, Or cause the ascending orb of day to wait? "Each well born soul must win what it deserves Let the fool prate of luck. The fortunate Is he whose earnest purpose never swerves Whose slightest action or inaction serves The one great aim: stands still And waits an hour sometimes for such a will." Why, even death These are fine, strong words. They fairly throb with energy and power. But faith is the strength of the strongest of these strong words. The "firm resolve" is made "firm" by the belief that what is "resolved" can be accomplished. The driving power of the "determined soul" is the heart-stirring conviction that what has been "determined" must and ought to be done. Freud, the eminent psychologist, gives the name "wish" to the basic impelling urge within us. He insists that we are driven in quest of things by an inner instinctive urge, or yearning akin to a wish. In part this conclusion is true of children, but as we merge into adulthood, there is blended with this "inner urge" an element of reason. The intelligent adult is not motivated entirely by instinct, but he is impelled by something akin to instinct. The dominant urge of the rational adult is faith. What instinct is to the child, faith is to the adult. Charles Darwin recognized this close relationship between instinctive action and faith-inspired action. In his "Descent of Man," he says, "A belief constantly inculcated during the early years of infancy, whilst the brain is impressionable appears to acquire almost the nature of an instinct: and the very essence of instinct is that it is followed independently of reason." Faith is rationalized impulse. It is the unified self, thinking, feeling and willing in one concurrent sovereign act of the soul. When the reason weighs the evidence and becomes fully persuaded; and the feelings are aroused by the deep conclusions of the mind; and the will is impelled by these conclusions and the driving power of these intensified feelings to determine that the thing shall be done—we have the real act of faith. This act is the completest act of the completest self. Aye, it is the supreme act of the supreme soul. A profound thinker said, "We cannot think of force apart from will." No phenomena can be fully explained without tracing all its causal connections back to an intelligent will. A rock falls from its place on the mountain. You explain it by saying, "It lost its equilibrium." The explanation is correct. But is it adequate? What caused it to lose its equilibrium? You say, "Disintegrating rock under it gave away." Again the answer is correct. But what caused the rock to disintegrate? You answer, "The forces of nature." But what is back of the forces of nature? Was there once a time when just inert matter and space existed and matter just commenced to move? Is it not a better explanation to say there has always been matter, energy and an intelligent will, motivated by an all-impelling faith? Back of everything that moves, there is force; and back of force there is will; and back of will there is faith: and back of faith there is God, "Faith is the moving cause of all action in all intelligent beings." Believing is the very breathing of the soul. Faith is the very life-spring of all personal energy. It is the very pulsating life of our imperishable spirits. It is faith that distinguishes the man of robust energy from the passive person. Men of inaction are always men of shallow convictions; and men of action are always men of strong convictions. All the strong words we use to describe a strong heart get their strength from the faith-idea in them. When we speak of someone having fortitude, we ascribe to him the firmness that comes from deep settled convictions. When we say someone is resolute, we mean that he is strongly persuaded of the worthiness of his intentions. When we say that someone is courageous, we mean that he has the fearlessness of undaunted assurance that he can conquer his foes. And when we ascribe to anyone heroism, the highest quality of moral excellence, we attribute to him faith's deathless integrity to truth and right. All the men who have nobly aspired, resolutely struggled, and splendidly achieved, have been men of fate-defying faith. In industry the Rockefellers, the Carnegies, the Schwabs and the Fords have been impelled in their gigantic enterprises by hearts made strong by the strength of faith in great industrial possibilities. On the field of battle the Alexanders, the Napoleons, the Washingtons, the Grants and the Foches have been sent against the foe by a valor made bold by a death-defying faith that gives ribs of steel to the heart. In Parliaments and Senate Chambers the statesmen who have fought persistently and heroically for the rights of man, have been fired with a heroic zeal, kindled by a living faith in the eternal righteousness of their cause. All the deeds that live in history, live because of the super-faith of the strong souls that wrought them. But it is in the realm of moral and spiritual advancement that the motivating force of faith is raised to its highest power and excellence. The worthfulness of the attainment of moral and spiritual standards cannot be seen by ordinary men and women. The glitter and glamor of material things blind their eyes. The dalliance of the social swirl diverts their aspirations from the things that endure. The alluring call of sensual pleasure deadens the spirit to the deep enduring glories of the soul. Moreover, the moral leader must face the sneer of the cynic, the jeer of the ribald, the frown of the proud, the slander of the wicked, and the sword of the persecutor. No timid heart is equal to this eternal battle between truth and error. Only the heart that beats with the strength of a divine faith dare enter this deathless conflict. The consecrated missionaries who have crossed land and sea to enlighten and uplift mankind have been moved by faith's fiery zeal. Sustained by this ever-burning flame, they have starved, suffered exposure, endured persecution and humiliation in their zealous struggle to raise mankind to a higher and nobler plane of living. Faith in God has been the very heart of the heroism of these self-sacrificing evangels of light and truth. The sturdy moral crusaders who have gone through flood and fire for their cherished ideals, have been sustained by faith's courage, that defies all opposition. They have been impelled to make their fearless onslaughts upon the forces of evil, by the unshaken assurance that the God of eternal right was on their side. This all-mastering conviction, that nothing really matters but God's truth, is the very soul of the heroism, which has nerved martyrs to go untremblingly to the stake for their deathless ideals. Fighting for righteousness always means foregoing the present pleasures and comforts, for the far off enduring glory. Only those who have the eyes of faith to see the distant goal of moral grandeur, have the heart to stand up for God and truth, in a vain and shallow world. It takes the valor of the faith of a Paul, of a Peter, of a Savonarola, of a Joseph Smith, to make bold onslaughts upon venerated traditions, fashionable error, and hallowed hypocrisy. "Without faith it is impossible to please God, for he that cometh to God must believe that He is, and that He is the rewarder of them that diligently seek Him." This conclusion of the apostle, is not a mere bit of dogma. It is the affirmation of a great fundamental truth. Without faith it is impossible to do anything of vital importance. The idea that faith is the basic urge to activity is especially true in our conduct towards God. The Creator is invisible. We cannot see Him with our natural eyes. All our thoughts and acts in relation to Him are inspired by faith's keen sense of His existence. We are drawn towards Him by the eternal pull of faith. Like magnetism that unerringly draws the needle towards the Northern star, so faith draws the soul towards God and truth. And by this inner dominant urge we are moved to conform our thoughts, aspirations and acts to the will of the Most High. One of the finest examples of strong-hearted action, in a situation calling for super-moral courage, is found in the account of Joseph Smith's incarceration in Liberty Jail. While held in this most unjust confinement within prison walls, he was surrounded one night, by a dissolute, drunken and depraved guard. These coarse, characterless men became half intoxicated, and a spirit of obscenity and profanity took possession of them. In their wicked gleefulness, their unholy lips poured out a continual stream of lewdness, boasts of corruption, mingled with brazen God-defying profanity. The prophet listened uncomplainingly for a while. Finally his sense of decency was completely outraged; and in chains he arose to the majesty of his super-human boldness, and in a voice of thunder shouted, "Silence, ye fiends of the infernal pit!" The drunken guards fairly quaked as they shivered before the towering majesty of the prophet; and cowering before him, they begged his pardon and slunk away. In that ringing command there vibrates a soul-energy which has seldom been witnessed on this globe. There was a pleading sweetness about her that was soothing. "No," he said shortly. "When I have time to talk I prefer you or somebody like Judge Harston." "Judge Harston," she replied smiling. "He is interesting. He remembers Paul Revere, and Washington." She sobered again. "I just received a letter, Jerry, from one of those Mormon boys who stayed with us. Joseph Smith and his brother Hyrum were recently killed by a mob while being held in jail at Carthage." She stopped, puzzled by the peculiar expression of satisfaction that had crossed his face. "That ends that episode," he said. "Some of the professors said it wouldn't last long, but most of them figured it would develop into something really dangerous. A man with several thousand followers believing he has seen an angel can have a great effect on the weaker minded people of a nation. I'm glad it's over with. Was that what you wanted to tell me?" He was plainly relieved. "Partly," she said. "The rest is harder. What makes you think the Mormon question is solved, Jerry?" He was astonished at her blindness. "Isn't their leader dead?" he demanded. "Who is there left to bamboozle them about God and angels bringing gold plates? They'll soon come to their senses, now." "You think Joseph Smith was the only one who saw those things?" she queried. "Oh, he hired witnesses, but they won't stand up long now that their paymaster is gone. Let's talk about something else besides fools and their follies. About court tomorrow, for instance. I've some interesting cases coming up for trial. Bring your father and enjoy yourselves. There's going to be some good comedy." She drew in a deep breath. The light of determination in her eyes carried her over her river of fear. "Jerry," she said evenly, "what would you do if you learned I was a Mormon?" He stared in open astonishment for a moment and then laughed softly. "Killed you, a week ago," he murmured, "but I'll let you outlive it, now. Let's go, little Mormon. I've work to do." At the gate of her home she faced him once more. "Dad and I are both Mormons at heart, Jerry," she said softly. "We always will be. You'd better begin to adjust yourself to forgetting me." He only laughed tenderly and kissed her. "Good night, sweetheart," he whispered tenderly. An hour later he was back aglow with excitement. He came into the parlor where Bessie and her father were reading a chapter from the Book of Mormon before retiring. Bessie had laid the book down when she went to answer his knock. He saw it there upon the table and picked it up. "I'm going to have use for this tomorrow," he said. "May I borrow it?" "I want you both there. This question of Mormonism is going to be exploded and the particles scattered so far apart that no two will ever meet again. I've just learned something that's going to make tomorrow one of the biggest days in my life. You'll come, won't you?" They assured him they would. When they arrived in front of the courthouse the next morning, it wasn't yet time for the session to begin. An unusually large crowd was gathered under the trees, talking and laughing. Jerry stepped out of the larger group and beckoned Bessie and her father. "This'll be the place where the fun begins," he said, and a wag added, "and ends, too. He'll never have the grit to go inside after you get through with him here." "Here he comes," someone said with hushed glee, and Bessie turned to see an extremely tall, well proportioned man coming up the walk. As he came nearer, she became conscious of a certain dignity and confidence about him that were admirable. He was a handsome man with greying temples that made him seem distinguished. His brows were not shaggy, but heavy, and from under them a pair of kindly, penetrating eyes looked forth questioningly as Jerry stepped forth to meet him. "Mr. Cowdery?" Jerry questioned. The stranger nodded. "Yes." His voice was pleasingly deep. The two immediately became the center of a crowding group, struggling to miss nothing of the coming spectacle. Jerry held up the copy of The Book of Mormon he had borrowed from Bessie and her father the night before. "Do you recognize this book, Mr. Cowdery?" Jerry asked in an exaggerated officious tone. Cowdery seemed to recognize that he had run into a trap of some sort, but showed neither worry nor fear. "I do," he said shortly. "I see your name attached to it," Jerry continued. "I take it from that that you know something about it. If you believe this book to be true, why are you away up here in Michigan?" Oliver Cowdery straightened and gave Jerry the benefit of a steely glare. "I'm here in the interests of one of my clients." "And do you actually believe this book?" Jerry demanded. A great light burst full into Bessie's mind. Jerry was doing this for her. He was going to prove to her that with the prophet dead, there was nothing left to Mormonism. He had recognized what had seemed a heaven sent opportunity, and had seized it avidly. It hadn't struck him as unfair to Oliver Cowdery, or to her. Oliver Cowdery was an apostate with a grudge. He was a man with every reason to hit back at the church if he got a good chance. Jerry hadn't thought of all this. He had thought only of proving the emptiness of Mormon doctrine. It was tragic for Cowdery. He was faced with loss from every direction. If he ignored the question he would be hooted and jeered and maybe mobbed. If he answered it in the affirmative his case would be hopeless. He aligned himself with a hated sect. If he denied it, he would be shown up for a man whose word was worthless, and as such, unfit for the bar. It was a breathless moment for everybody. The steely glare in Cowdery's eyes seemed to grow softer. Lines of sorrowful memories gathered about his mouth. He seemed to have taken himself apart from the gaping crowd. Jerry repeated his question. "Do you, Mr. Cowdery, believe what is written in this book?" "No, sir!" the words popped like a pistol shot. A great gasp went up from a hundred throats at the same time. Jerry grinned triumphantly. "I didn't think so," he said, "but you state here that you believe it, and your signature is attached hereto. Not only that but you state that you saw an angel who showed you the plates from which this book is purported to have been translated. Now which time did you tell the truth, then or now?" There was not the slightest hesitancy about Cowdery's reply. His words rang with sincerity and truth. "My name is attached to that book because what I there said is true. I did see an angel. He did show me those plates. I know I saw these things, and belief has nothing to do with it, knowing as I do that it is true." Awe hushed every sound. Tears gathered in Bessie's eyes. This was the thing Jerry and others hadn't counted upon. Pure sacrifice. The man had had nothing to gain by his testimony, had in fact plenty of reason to refute the book in question, but he had held true under fire. The crowd was breaking up. Stunned with astonishment, Jerry turned and walked slowly up the courthouse steps to defeat. Late that night, a group of four were gathered about the big table in the parlor at the Gilmores'. Oliver Cowdery was speaking in a queer strained voice that reminded one of tears that couldn't be shed. Jerry and Bessie and her father were hanging breathlessly upon those words. "With my own hand," he was saying, "I wrote that book, most of it at least, as it fell from the lips of a prophet of God. If you'll read it prayerfully you cannot avoid knowing it is filled with great truths any more than Joseph Smith or I could. Some day, after I have paid the uttermost farthing, God will pour a soothing balm over my smarting soul, and I shall be taken back into the fold. Humbled and crushed, but taken back." He drew himself suddenly together and became again the dignified lawyer for a moment as he arose from his chair. And then just as suddenly he softened again and stretched forth his hands to touch the heads of Bessie and Jerry. "God bless your two young hearts," he murmured in benediction, "and keep them tender toward your fellowmen by a testimony of the divinity of that book for which prophets have died. The truth that speaks now from the dust." When they looked up the door had closed behind him, but there still remained that sweet influence which had at one time made so powerful a thing of his testimony. the strength, power and majesty of God in that rebuke, for the heroic soul who uttered it was impelled by a certainty of his innate power and rectitude that makes all things give way before its all-commanding power. The whole story of the rise and progress of Mormonism is one long narrative of sublime faith's struggle against insurmountable odds. The early votaries of this modern religious movement were compelled to face the most stubborn opposition and the fiercest persecution. Three times within a decade they were driven in a body from their homes and dispossessed of their property at the point of mobocratic bayonets. But after each inhuman expatriation they arose in the marvelous strength of undaunted faith, and quietly commenced to lay the foundation of new homes, new institutions of learning, and new chapels and temples. When they were expelled, some twenty thousand souls in a body, from Nauvoo, they were compelled to cross the dreary, forbidding American plains, to find refuge in the fastnesses of the Rocky Mountains. Their westward exodus is the most marvelous undertaking of its kind in the annals of the race. It entailed privation, hardship, suffering and danger. Food was scarce; many were poorly clad; their equipment was defective; and savages lurked in ambush along the way to threaten their peace and safety. But in spite of hunger, privation and discomfort, distress and danger, they had the stout-hearted faith to sing as they slowly trudged on their way: "And should we die before our journey's through, Happy day! All is well! We then are free from toil and sorrow too; With the just we shall dwell. But if our lives are spared again To see the Saints their rest obtain, O how we'll make this chorus swell— All is well! All is well!" These are faith-fretted lines of transcendent beauty and power. Every word throbs with absolute assurance of the life that has no end. Every syllable pulsates with an unconquerable hope of the deathless life beyond the grave. This stirring song of faith, hope and courage has reverberated down through the years and made thousands of hearts beat stronger than human hearts have ever beaten since the Master of faith spoke at Lazarus' tomb and conquered death. These modern pilgrims were the legatees of the faith of him who possessed an all-commanding power. The return of this robust faith marked the beginning of a new era of transcendent spiritual glory. The power of this new-old faith furnishes convincing confirmation of the divine promise that the gospel restoration should cause "faith" to "increase in the world." This solemn decree of the Most High has been verified. Faith has "increased in the world." The coming of the Book of Mormon, and other modern revelations has given to mankind new and convincing evidences of the divinity of Jesus Christ, the efficacy of his sacrificial death, and the reality of his triumph over the grave. These doubt-dispelling witnesses for God and immortality have quickened the heart beats of hundreds of thousands of devout men and women, and given them the certain assurance of immortality and eternal life to face grim death with a serene smile upon their lips, and the lark-song of hope in their souls.
Ideas By Harrison R. Merrill
BEFORE I proceed far upon this theme I must explain just what an idea—to me—really is, and that is a difficult feat. Because, that, in itself, is an idea. An idea is a fertilized germ-cell of the spirit. This cell, floating into the mind upon the wings of the senses, or upon that invisible spirit of the air which is beyond the senses, grows, hatches, and finally feathers out—the feathers being words—and takes wing through speech, through the written word, or through the actions of the one in whose brain the cell lodged. We "take" ideas very much as we take measles or mumps. We stroll into the presence of a new experience, or even into the presence of an old experience which, by some twist of circumstances, attains to new significance. This new experience or this old experience with a new significance is radio-active. It, or they, sends out energy or "germs" if we are to hold to our figure. These germs may not be noticed at first. They may be of the sort which incubate and reach full strength in five minutes or five years. Some people, for various reasons, are immune to ideas. The disease will not "take" in their case. They go calmly about their business never suspecting that a million spiritual germs of ideas have been lodged in their brains. I am not saying that such people are not happy. They may be the happiest kind, but they never start revolutions or assassinate the President or invent a new incandescent light or any of the other thousand and one things that people down with a bad case of "ideas" are likely to do. Some people are not immune. They come down easily and quickly. They, however, are not among the happiest people, as I see it. They take so many ideas into the system that they skip from one to another without making any of them bear fruit. Or if a screw gets loose somewhere they are likely to get distorted ideas which will tear them—mentally—apart. And then there are people who are carriers. They take the disease, perhaps, get over it and go on about their business, but with the old idea still in their minds. They cease to follow it, but they drop hints along the way; they sow seeds which take root in other people's minds. They become accessories before the fact, as it were. There are some strong, virile, steady people who resist ideas, but who, when they once come down, are violently attacked. These people become single-minded—single-eyed. They are the Lincoln's who will hang on for years; the Grant's who will "fight it out on this line if it takes all summer;" the Darwin's who will sail strange seas, climb impregnable mountains to prove their idea; the Paul's who will hang on even though the headman's axe does its work. Fortunately, ideas may be of many kinds. A chap may get an idea which will work out into a beautiful poem, or into a ridiculous article like this, or into "non-skid" soap, or a new type of silk cloth. Or, on the other hand, he may get one that will wreck a building, blow up a ship, erect a sky-scraper, build a bridge across the Hudson River, or bore a tunnel under it. When we speak loosely we exclaim over some trivial thing, "I have an idea!" Of course, when we talk like that, we are usually mistaken. We mean that we have suddenly revamped or grabbed out of the trash pile in our memory an old idea, perhaps somebody else's idea that has been slumbering there for months or years. Ideas are such uncommon things that men and women—millions of them, yes, billions of them—live and die without ever having had one that they could justly call their own. The world is so full of old ideas now that when somebody actually gets a new one, we call him a genius or an inventor or a saint or something. We honor men with ideas. Emerson—or was it Emerson—was trying to say something about ideas when he made that now very worn statement about the chap who could build a new mouse trap. No better proof of the truth of his statement can be found than in the fact that in my short lifetime I have heard Emerson's statement—provided it was Emerson's—quoted a million times, more or less—I suspect less, for a million is a great many times. The person who gets a new idea—one of his own—or even makes a new one up out of a lot of others—is a creator. Ideas are sometimes very distressing. They sometimes take people through flood and fire, as witness Noah and Joan of Arc. For that reason, some people make it a practice to avoid places where ideas are prevalent. They would rather sit at home and knit or stand on the corner of the street and smoke. By the way, I'm always surprised when a man who smokes really captures an idea, for smoking is designed especially as an anti-toxin for ideas. A mind floating around on the seductive wings of nicotine has a film around it which prevents any but sharp-pointed ideas from finding lodgement, I fancy. Fortunately, ideas are like the electrical waves which are saddled by means of the radio and made to carry the human voice. They are intangible to glass or steel or stone walls. A person sitting at home admiring a sunset through a glass window may "take down" with something virulent as witness Bourdillion and his "Night has a Thousand Eyes." He got an idea which is likely to make him live in our hearts forever. People who like ideas are always seeking that country where they are prevalent, and that country is not often the same for any two people. One finds them thick along the sea shore—John Masefield, for instance; others in the orchard among the trees and grass—as did Edna St. Vincent Millay. Emerson picked them from bushes and breezes; Holmes from tea cups; Whitman from people. Edison, Steinmetz, Einstein gathered them in arm loads from the laboratory; Abraham, Galileo, and Jeans, from the stars. Since ideas must eventually become tangible through words, I am expecting English speaking people to get more than any other people and to do more with them. The English language is the broadest, the most complete, possessed of words with the most delicate meanings of any of the languages. In fact, it is a language made from many others; therefore, the man who thinks in English can think more accurately, and can clothe his ideas—or should I say feather his ideas—more handsomely than any other. This is an aside. (That is the best reason I can think of why English should become the universal language. We are bound to have one now with our radios and talkies, and so why not select that language which has developed farthest. He who talks about Esperanto, or any other manufactured language has a bad, indeed, an impossible idea.) In conclusion, then: Ideas are impacts from the original sources of things—from the spiritual world I'd say—which lodge in human minds, incubate, hatch, and feather out into soaring birds ranging from a four-lined stanza to an invention which has the world in its grasp like radio. Ideas are precious things; they should be sought after and fostered when found, and then nursed into full growth. Now that's my idea. Yours? What is yours?
The Sun Dance By Jane Bradford Terry
On the Indian reservation Where the land is clad in sagebrush, When the sun shone warm in summer, Redmen built a large enclosure Made of boughs and poles and willows.
In the center of the circle Stood a pole securely planted, On the pole a head of bison To remind the dusky Redmen How their fathers lived and hunted.
All around inside the circle Dressed in gaily-colored blankets— Bare their arms and feet and bosoms, Symbols painted on their bodies— Stood the Redmen watching closely For the signal of the Sun Dance.
Forward, backward, danced the Redmen, Waving fans of eagle feathers, Blowing whistles, shrill and bird-like, Whistles made from bones of eagles.
Forward, backward, danced the Redmen, To the beating of the tom-tom, To the sound of women singing. Danced until they fell exhausted, Rested till renewed and strengthened.
Heard the speeches of their leaders, Speeches filled with hope and courage, Words of honor, love and kindness. Heard the prayers for their recovery That the misery, pain and sickness From their bodies might be driven.
Dancing, praying, resting, fasting, Through the warmth and heat of daytime Through the darkness of the night-time Till three days had dawned and faded.
When again the sun had risen. And the darkness had departed, Faint and weak—yet ever hopeful, Facing eastward, toward the sunrise Firm they stood, the sun saluting, Claiming blessings for their people Ere they took their journey homeward.
(The significance of this dance was explained by Thomas Bosgrove, an Indian who read this poem with the comment, "You understand the heart of the Indian.")
A Mother's Best Friend is Her Daughter By Elsie Chamberlain Carroll
"YOU know, girls, I'm really a lot older than Mother." The magazine I had been trying to read dropped into my lap and I gave my full attention to the conversation on the other side of the hedge that had for some time been competing with my magazine. "Well, you needn't laugh," the voice of eighteen-year-old Louise Dunford continued. "I honestly am. Mother's a dear, as you all know, but she's totally ignorant about ever so many things she ought to know about, and I just have to watch her all the time about a lot of things. For instance the way she dresses." "Well, what do you know about that?" piped up a voice I recognized as Madge Newman's. "I have the very same trouble with my mother. Do you know she was all ready to go to that swell, formal reception Mrs. Blank gave last week for the senator's wife, without a sign of a hat or a glove. Because it was warm, she thought she would just take a parasol and run over—about like she'd run into your mother's kitchen some morning, Doris." "Well, did she have a hat and gloves to wear?" asked Betty Morley. "If she were like Mom, and if you were as thoughtless and selfish as I usually am, she'd have to borrow a hat and gloves from you. Every once in a while I come to, and see myself and Mom as others must see us, and I blush all over. Why, she's always wanting me to have pretty new things, and she's willing to go without year in and year out just so I can look nice. Really it's a serious fault she has." "I guess they are all alike," put in Cally Daynes. "My mother never buys a new rag for herself until Blanche and I insist upon it. She doesn't seem to have any idea at all of what it means to Dad and us children to have her look fresh and pretty. Really, I feel just as Louise does," Cally continued with a sigh. "We are a lot older than our mothers, and it's an awful responsibility." I smiled a bit wryly from behind the screen of hedge that hid me. I knew that there is more truth than we middle aged mothers would like to admit in the statements I had just heard. Our young daughters are a lot older than we are in many modern experiences, and they do have a weight of responsibility in trying to keep us up-to-date. But isn't it wonderful that they want to keep us up-to-date? Shouldn't we appreciate it that they want to draw us into their world, that they want us to look "fresh and pretty," and to be their pals! And I thought to myself that it is too bad that we often make it so hard for them. The phrase, "A girl's best friend is her mother," will of course, remain true as long as there are mothers and daughters. But might we not with equal truth shift the meaning and say, "A mother's best friend is her daughter?" Most assuredly if we mothers of today wish to keep in the march of modern times, if we wish to keep our minds and hearts and eyes open to the changes that are sweeping upon us with bewildering rapidity, if we wish to prevent being set upon the shelf as "has beens" by the present aggressive and progressive generation, we can do no better than to cultivate the companionship of our daughters. I remember how shocked an elderly lady was recently to hear a young relative call her mother by her given name! "Why, you ought to be ashamed of yourself," she scolded, "speaking to your mother like that!" And turning to the mother she asked, "Do you allow her to speak to you in that disrespectful way?" Before the mother could answer the daughter took up the challenge. "It's not disrespectful, Aunty. It's—it's—" and what she added was one of the sweetest tributes I have ever heard given to a mother. "Why, I call her Molly because she's more than just my mother, she's—my chum!" Of course "Aunty" was not convinced, and argued that the mother should insist upon proper respect and that she didn't know what the world was coming to. But it is the real attitude between parents and children that matters; not a set of artificial formulas. As was suggested in the beginning of this article, one contribution daughters can make to their mothers, if the mothers will permit it, is helping the mothers to dress attractively. In every normal family, the father and children are proud and happy when the mother looks well dressed and well-groomed. The daughters have the freshness and beauty of youth. They do not need beautiful clothes to make them attractive. It is the mother's wardrobe that needs the larger share of the clothing allowance in the family budget. The daughter can also be a real friend in the matter of the personal appearance of the mother, by giving encouragement and advice regarding the most becoming way to fix the hair and helping her to feel that it is not a waste of time or money to give some care to her skin. Another friendly service many daughters are giving to their mothers is helping them to keep in touch with modern trends in music, art and literature. One mother told me that she had always loved classical music, and that when jazz first became prevalent, she felt that she could not endure it to have such music played and sung in her home. She would not permit the purchase of jazz records for the phonograph; she would not allow her children to play jazz on the piano; for a long time she would not have a radio because she knew it would bring jazz into the home. Finally, she awoke to the realization that her daughters were spending their evenings at the homes of their friends; that they were not bringing their companions with them as they used to do. Her daughter convinced her that if she was going to keep the intimate relations with her children that she wanted above anything else in the world to keep, that she could not shut the things of modern life away from her. She confesses now that while she still loves classical music as much as ever, that there are certain times when she enjoys a good piece of jazz as much as her children do. Another woman said to me one day, "You know, I never used to read funny papers. I thought it beneath my dignity to waste my time with such nonsense. Finally, I noticed that the children were constantly alluding to things with which I was not familiar. I would expose my ignorance, and would be informed that the things they were talking about had been in the funny papers. One day my little girl said, 'Mama, I wish you would read the funnies. I don't like you to be so far behind the rest of us.' I acquired the habit in order that I might be conversant with my own children, and it has helped me to cultivate a neglected sense of humor which is very necessary in life." Perhaps one of the greatest helps we can receive from our daughters, is a new attitude toward the matter of sex. The old idea that every reference to sex should be tabooed is hard to overcome. It is difficult for the older generation to become accustomed to the freedom and frankness of the present day. Probably there is too much freedom and frankness. I am not saying that. There isn't. The pendulum usually swings from one extreme to the other. But I doubt if the present generation is less morally sound than previous generations, even though the life of today is much more complex than life has ever been before. Modern standards are not necessarily lower than old standards; they are different, that is all, and it is always difficult for one generation to adjust to the succeeding generation. A modern essay humorously plays upon the difference between the old and the new attitudes toward sex. The title is "What Children Should Teach Their Parents About Sex," and it at least suggests that there is a new attitude toward this subject that fathers and mothers should try to understand, before they condemn. Why should we be shocked at the frankness of our children about this most fundamental and important aspect of life? Isn't their free, frank way of looking at it and discussing it more healthful than the hushed, secretive, shame-faced manner with which the subject used to be treated? Huxley once said, in deploring the fact that information concerning the creative function of the human body was always kept beneath a shroud of mystery, "If the people of another planet should judge this race by our physiology texts, they would think we are sexless creatures." Twenty-five years ago prospective motherhood was regarded as something to be hidden, to be talked about only in whispers and with blushing faces. Because a woman was soon to be crowned with God's greatest gift, she must keep herself in seclusion as much as possible. Whenever she did go about upon the streets or in public places, she realized that she was the object of curious glances and perhaps coarse jests. No matter how her own soul exulted over the knowledge that a little heart was beating beneath her own, she must keep all preparations for the glorious event of birth in surreptitious secretiveness. If anyone surprised her at the happy task of making dainty little garments, the work must be guiltily hidden away as if some shame were attached to it. How differently these daughters for whom we made ready in that manner, prepare for the coming of their babies! The great event is heralded with pride. All the members of the family share the happy expectation, and enjoy the preparations. Not long ago I was visiting a friend when her young married daughter rushed in upon us. Her arms were full of parcels and her cheeks were pink—with health and happiness, not with shame. "Oh, I just can't wait to show you all the darling things I got," she cried as she began to undo parcels. "I'm so thrilled I can't wait to get started at sewing. Isn't this blanket cunning? Jimmy helped me pick it out, and this sweater too. He has good taste in everything." Her mother looked at me and smiled. Both our cheeks were slightly burning. It is as hard to change habitual attitudes as habitual actions. "Can you imagine," my friend said to me, "one of your former admirers helping pick out the layette for your first baby?" "Why, what's wrong with that?" the daughter asked in surprise. "Jimmy is just like a brother to Ned and me both. What's wrong about his being interested in our baby?" And try as I would, I couldn't say that anything was wrong, even though I knew I was shocked at the idea. I was in another home not long ago where the stork was expected any hour. A group of friends of the soon-to-be father and mother came to see how they were feeling. Some of the group were married, others were not, but they spent the evening chatting about the coming event with as little embarrassment as if they had been talking about the weather. There was, however, something beautiful and dignified in the enthusiasm and candor with which they discussed the subject, though there was no trace of shame. And so our daughters can teach us to put aside our prudishness and false modesty, and look at the facts of life squarely and with proper respect for their significance. Indeed, there are many things a mother may learn from her daughter; many ways in which she may be benefited by her friendship. Perhaps one of the most valuable things she can learn, is to give this daughter-friend the same respect and consideration she has for her other friends. It will help her to realize that her daughter is an individual quite distinct from herself and that she has her own life to live, and that she has a right to live it in her own way. By cultivating her daughter's friendship, and gaining an insight into modern life through her daughter's view-point, the mother will realize that it would be unnatural and unjust to expect her daughter to live by the same codes and standards that guided her own life; for life is constantly changing. What it demands today, is different from what it demanded yesterday. No, we cannot live our daughters' lives for them, but we can at least refrain from meddling, and allow them to live their own lives in the best way possible. I do not want to be misunderstood. I do not under-estimate the value of a mother's advice and guidance to her daughter. As I said in the beginning, as long as there are mothers and daughters, the daughter's best friend will be her mother, but the benefit is not all on one side. It is equally true that a mother can be helped also. Her whole life can be enriched and made more happy and satisfying to herself and others through the cultivation of the friendship of her daughter.
Irrefutable Evidence By Orville S. Johnson
BESSIE GILMORE, seated on the grassy bank of Willow Creek, looked up expectantly at the sound of approaching footsteps. The expression in her great dark eyes was eager, but mixed with trouble. She was far from certain just how Jerry Cameron was going to react to what she had to say to him. Jerry rounded the abrupt bend in the trail along the bank and came suddenly into view at the opposite edge of the tiny glade. At sight of Bessie he lengthened his stride. "Beat me, didn't you?" he called out joyously. "Had no idea you thought so much of me." She blushed, enhancing her rich coloring. "You more than likely will still have no idea of how much I think of you when we have finished our talk," she said solemnly. "I'm afraid you're going to be terribly shocked." "Reckon I can stand it," was his ready retort. "I've been shocking corn all morning." He dropped upon the grass beside her. She smiled and then immediately sobered. "You remember those two 'Mormon' boys who stopped for a few days at our place last spring?" His face clouded heavily. His lips snapped into a thin, straight line. "You bet I do," he glowered. "If they'd stayed much longer, that infamous sect would have been minus two full sized members." "What makes you feel that way, Jerry?" she said quietly. "Heard pretty much all about them while I was at law school. They're no good. If your daddy wasn't such a fanatic over religion he could have seen it." "Why wouldn't I see it, Jerry?" "Too kind hearted. You'd be good to anybody. Even me." "Not even you, Jerry, especially you. It's because I feel the way I do about you that I have to talk about this thing. Don't be cross, Jerry. It'll be over in a moment. All over. Did you ever talk to a—a Mormon?" There was a pleading sweetness about her that was soothing. "No," he said shortly. "When I have time to talk I prefer you or somebody like Judge Harston." "Judge Harston," she replied smiling. "He is interesting. He remembers Paul Revere, and Washington." She sobered again. "I just received a letter, Jerry, from one of those Mormon boys who stayed with us. Joseph Smith and his brother Hyrum were recently killed by a mob while being held in jail at Carthage." She stopped, puzzled by the peculiar expression of satisfaction that had crossed his face. "That ends that episode," he said. "Some of the professors said it wouldn't last long, but most of them figured it would develop into something really dangerous. A man with several thousand followers believing he has seen an angel can have a great effect on the weaker minded people of a nation. I'm glad it's over with. Was that what you wanted to tell me?" He was plainly relieved. "Partly," she said. "The rest is harder. What makes you think the Mormon question is solved, Jerry?" He was astonished at her blindness. "Isn't their leader dead?" he demanded. "Who is there left to bamboozle them about God and angels bringing gold plates? They'll soon come to their senses, now." "You think Joseph Smith was the only one who saw those things?" she queried. "Oh, he hired witnesses, but they won't stand up long now that their paymaster is gone. Let's talk about something else besides fools and their follies. About court tomorrow, for instance. I've some interesting cases coming up for trial. Bring your father and enjoy yourselves. There's going to be some good comedy." She drew in a deep breath. The light of determination in her eyes carried her over her river of fear. "Jerry," she said evenly, "what would you do if you learned I was a Mormon?" He stared in open astonishment for a moment and then laughed softly. "Killed you, a week ago," he murmured, "but I'll let you outlive it, now. Let's go, little Mormon. I've work to do." At the gate of her home she faced him once more. "Dad and I are both Mormons at heart, Jerry," she said softly. "We always will be. You'd better begin to adjust yourself to forgetting me." He only laughed tenderly and kissed her. "Good night, sweetheart," he whispered tenderly. An hour later he was back aglow with excitement. He came into the parlor where Bessie and her father were reading a chapter from the Book of Mormon before retiring. Bessie had laid the book down when she went to answer his knock. He saw it there upon the table and picked it up. "I'm going to have use for this tomorrow," he said. "May I borrow it?" "I want you both there. This question of Mormonism is going to be exploded and the particles scattered so far apart that no two will ever meet again. I've just learned something that's going to make tomorrow one of the biggest days in my life. You'll come, won't you?" They assured him they would. When they arrived in front of the courthouse the next morning, it wasn't yet time for the session to begin. An unusually large crowd was gathered under the trees, talking and laughing. Jerry stepped out of the larger group and beckoned Bessie and her father. "This'll be the place where the fun begins," he said, and a wag added, "and ends, too. He'll never have the grit to go inside after you get through with him here." "Here he comes," someone said with hushed glee, and Bessie turned to see an extremely tall, well proportioned man coming up the walk. As he came nearer, she became conscious of a certain dignity and confidence about him that were admirable. He was a handsome man with greying temples that made him seem distinguished. His brows were not shaggy, but heavy, and from under them a pair of kindly, penetrating eyes looked forth questioningly as Jerry stepped forth to meet him. "Mr. Cowdery?" Jerry questioned. The stranger nodded. "Yes." His voice was pleasingly deep. The two immediately became the center of a crowding group, struggling to miss nothing of the coming spectacle. Jerry held up the copy of The Book of Mormon he had borrowed from Bessie and her father the night before. "Do you recognize this book, Mr. Cowdery?" Jerry asked in an exaggerated officious tone. Cowdery seemed to recognize that he had run into a trap of some sort, but showed neither worry nor fear. "I do," he said shortly. "I see your name attached to it," Jerry continued. "I take it from that that you know something about it. If you believe this book to be true, why are you away up here in Michigan?" Oliver Cowdery straightened and gave Jerry the benefit of a steely glare. "I'm here in the interests of one of my clients." "And do you actually believe this book?" Jerry demanded. A great light burst full into Bessie's mind. Jerry was doing this for her. He was going to prove to her that with the prophet dead, there was nothing left to Mormonism. He had recognized what had seemed a heaven sent opportunity, and had seized it avidly. It hadn't struck him as unfair to Oliver Cowdery, or to her. Oliver Cowdery was an apostate with a grudge. He was a man with every reason to hit back at the church if he got a good chance. Jerry hadn't thought of all this. He had thought only of proving the emptiness of Mormon doctrine. It was tragic for Cowdery. He was faced with loss from every direction. If he ignored the question he would be hooted and jeered and maybe mobbed. If he answered it in the affirmative his case would be hopeless. He aligned himself with a hated sect. If he denied it, he would be shown up for a man whose word was worthless, and as such, unfit for the bar. It was a breathless moment for everybody. The steely glare in Cowdery's eyes seemed to grow softer. Lines of sorrowful memories gathered about his mouth. He seemed to have taken himself apart from the gaping crowd. Jerry repeated his question. "Do you, Mr. Cowdery, believe what is written in this book?" "No, sir!" the words popped like a pistol shot. A great gasp went up from a hundred throats at the same time. Jerry grinned triumphantly. "I didn't think so," he said, "but you state here that you believe it, and your signature is attached hereto. Not only that but you state that you saw an angel who showed you the plates from which this book is purported to have been translated. Now which time did you tell the truth, then or now?" There was not the slightest hesitancy about Cowdery's reply. His words rang with sincerity and truth. "My name is attached to that book because what I there said is true. I did see an angel. He did show me those plates. I know I saw these things, and belief has nothing to do with it, knowing as I do that it is true." Awe hushed every sound. Tears gathered in Bessie's eyes. This was the thing Jerry and others hadn't counted upon. Pure sacrifice. The man had had nothing to gain by his testimony, had in fact plenty of reason to refute the book in question, but he had held true under fire. The crowd was breaking up. Stunned with astonishment, Jerry turned and walked slowly up the courthouse steps to defeat. Late that night, a group of four were gathered about the big table in the parlor at the Gilmores'. Oliver Cowdery was speaking in a queer strained voice that reminded one of tears that couldn't be shed. Jerry and Bessie and her father were hanging breathlessly upon those words. "With my own hand," he was saying, "I wrote that book, most of it at least, as it fell from the lips of a prophet of God. If you'll read it prayerfully you cannot avoid knowing it is filled with great truths any more than Joseph Smith or I could. Some day, after I have paid the uttermost farthing, God will pour a soothing balm over my smarting soul, and I shall be taken back into the fold. Humbled and crushed, but taken back." He drew himself suddenly together and became again the dignified lawyer for a moment as he arose from his chair. And then just as suddenly he softened again and stretched forth his hands to touch the heads of Bessie and Jerry. "God bless your two young hearts," he murmured in benediction, "and keep them tender toward your fellowmen by a testimony of the divinity of that book for which prophets have died. The truth that speaks now from the dust." When they looked up the door had closed behind him, but there still remained that sweet influence which had at one time made so powerful a thing of his personality. Jerry reached over and picked up the Book of Mormon and reverently opened it. "And so ends the biggest day of my life," he said softly. "Let's read a chapter together."
Twilight By Ida R. Alldredge
The sunset glow fades quickly in the west; Bells tinkle as the herd comes home to rest And slowly down the path they wend their way Ere evening shadows shroud the light of day.
The poplar and the weeping willow trees Sigh gently in the balmy summer breeze; The fragrant apple blossoms scent the air And falling water wafts sweet music everywhere.
One lone star twinkles in the vaulted sky As it resumes its vigil up on high— Another, then another 'till anon Yon canopy is studded, day is gone.
The aura of the lilac lends a mystic spell As shadows lengthen over hill and dell And twilight slowly shuts from us the light Enfolding all the world in arms of night.
Indoor Gardens By Maud Chegwidden
ISN'T it a charming thing, when snow covers the ground outside and winter holds all the trees and perennials in his icy grip, to see a sunny window filled with gayly blooming plants, or with specimens noted for their variegated foliage? I really think that the window garden in winter gives us more pleasure, proportionately, than a whole garden filled with blooming annuals and perennials in the summer. And of course the window garden is the only means some folks have of satisfying their love of growing things, in these days of the cliff dwellers, or apartment house residents. It is at this time, however, that most of our pot plants begin to look rather discouraged and sad. They are suffering, usually, from the exigencies of modern life, with its over-heated homes filled with dry air. The atmosphere in many houses is as arid as that of the Sahara desert, and of course plants cannot thrive. Then again, often the available plant food in the soil has been used up and the plant is either standing still or actually losing ground. If you live with furnace heat, your plants are almost certain to be suffering for lack of moisture in the air. Ferns especially cannot endure dry air. Purchase a fine spray from the nursery store, and at least once a week spray the plants with water which is the same temperature as the room. Never use icy water from the faucet, either to spray plants or to water them. If water stands in the room for a few hours, it will be the correct temperature. A pan of water should stand near plants in such a home, so that evaporation is constantly taking place. Paper-white lily bulbs growing in water, or a little dish garden with carrot tops growing in water, will serve two purposes, being both beautiful and useful. An aquarium, with goldfish and water plants, is even better. If your plants have been in the same pots of earth for more than a year, it is almost certain that the nitrogen, phosphorus and potash, which are the three main items of plant food, have been exhausted. Naturally you will be unable to repot the plants now, with no new soil available, so a balanced plant food must be given. Stim-U-Plant tablets are easy to use and very good, and Vigoro also is a chemical fertilizer of great value. These give immediate results. For slower use there is bone meal, an excellent fertilizer which is safe in the hands of a rank amateur, since one cannot burn the plants by an overdose—which is easily done when the enthusiastic home gardener feeds her plants not wisely, but too well! Always use a purchased fertilizer exactly according to the printed directions. I once killed a whole window full of plants because I had some ammonium sulphate around the house in a paper bag, and wanted to be rid of it. I mixed an extra strong dose, gave it to the poor defenseless plants, and then felt like a murderer when I saw the poor withered creatures, a few days later. They never recovered. Plants breathe through their leaves, by means of tiny mouths called stomata. These minute openings may very easily become choked with dust and often house plants are suffering terribly for no other reason than that they need their faces, ears and necks washed! Dampen a sponge or soft piece of cloth, and cleanse each leaf carefully, once a week. The method of watering house plants is a frequent stumbling block. Some plants are kept constantly wet, with their feet in a saucer of water at all times, and again some plants are allowed to get dry and hard before another drink is given them. The happy medium, of course, is the correct thing. It is impossible to say that plants should be watered once a day or twice a week, since the air in every home is at a different temperature. Most plants need constant slight moisture. The soil should feel moist to the touch, not wet, and water should never, never be allowed to stand in the saucer. If the earth in your pots is one inch below the rim of the pot, as it should be, there is space for a good drink of water. If any runs through to the saucer, pour it away. A south window is the ideal place for an indoor garden, although the eastern exposure is also fine. However, there are many plants which thrive in a north window, or under deep overhanging eaves where sun never penetrates. As a general rule the flowering plants require all the sun they can get. Sometimes windows allow alarmingly cold draughts to strike through to the plants, and this is much to be deplored, for plants are never happy with cold currents of air blowing over them. On nights when the temperature is near freezing, either pull down the blind behind the plants, or put several thicknesses of newspaper inside the glass. It is safe to say that the geranium is the most popular flowering plant for American homes, just as the Boston fern is the favorite foliage plant. The geranium, strictly speaking, is not a geranium but a pelargonium, but as everyone sticks to the wrong name, we may as well do the same. I am asked so many times: "How can I make my geraniums bloom?" A great many home gardeners place their geraniums out in the porch boxes or baskets in summer, where they bloom with abandon, and then expect the same plants to bloom all winter. No plant can bloom constantly, any more than a human being can keep awake all day and all night too. Plants must rest, just as we must. If the geranium has bloomed during the summer it must cease blooming during the winter months, to get energy for its period of bloom the next summer. This is the way I manage to have geraniums in bloom both winter and summer. My plants help to fill two long boxes on the porch in summer, where they bloom very nicely. In July or August I take slips of each geranium, and root them in a glass of water placed in the dining room window, which faces south. They might be rooted in sand, either. I plant these slips when the root system is well started, and by the time the outside plants have been frost-killed, I have buds on the new geraniums. It is these new starts which bloom all winter. Geraniums like to be rather on the dry side with regard to water, and a small pot will force more bloom; when the geraniums are in a too large pot they run all to leaves. Next to geraniums, the finest and most easily grown flowering plants are the begonias, which produce their pretty flowers of white, pink or red almost continuously. Some of the begonias have no stems, the leaves springing directly from the root stock, and the flower stems also arise straight from the soil. Then again there are begonias which are grown solely for their foliage, and very beautiful and finely colored this is. One may start a collection of begonias with great pleasure, for there are scores of varieties. The beefsteak begonia (begonia sanguinea), with its rounded, leathery leaves dark red beneath, will thrive in a north window, quite sunless. The fuchsia is one of the daintiest flowering plants we have, and should be in every window garden. Its lovely bright green, pointed leaves are only superseded in beauty by the drooping flowers, so fittingly called "my lady's eardrops." The four petals and the long calyx-tube differ in color, and may be white, cream, pink, purple, or cerise. Extending from the drooping calyx-tube is the still longer stigma and the eight stamens. A plant in full bloom is a thing of beauty indeed. The fuchsia also thrives in a north window. It is rather prone to attacks of the green aphid, which may easily be remedied by spraying with Black Leaf 40, mixed one teaspoonful to the gallon of water. I wonder how many of our readers grow the English ivy as a house plant? It is one of my favorites, and will endure worse conditions than any other plant I know. It thrives better in the shade than the sun, and will forgive you if you forget to water it, and will grow where gas is present, which many plants refuse to do. English ivy may be trained up ladders, around wire globes and semi-circles, or around a window. Its dark green, handsome leaves should be washed weekly for best results. One of the daintiest of house plants is the oxalis, grown from a tiny bulb planted five or six to a six inch pot. The leaves are clover-shaped, and fold up at night. The darling little flowers are white, pink, red or yellow, the latter color being usually called the "Bermuda buttercup" in nursery catalogues. The flowers of oxalis come very profusely, but when they show signs of diminishing you should gradually give less and less water, until the leaves shrivel and the plant lies dormant. It may be brought into bloom each winter, indefinitely. There are so many other choice plants, all easily grown, such as the leopard plant, the snake plant, the many coleuses, the cacti, the ferns and palms, and so on ad infinitum. We have not space to mention all of the wonderful things you may grow in your kitchen or living room windows, with just a little intelligent thought for their needs. Try a few plants which are unknown to you this winter, and add more each year. Soon you will have a valuable and interesting collection, and you will be indulging in one of the most pleasant hobbies, that of window gardening.
Martha Hughes Cannon By John Henry Evans
PERHAPS no more significant way to begin this biographical sketch could be found than to give an excerpt from the minutes of a "council meeting" (now called by the humbler name of teachers' meeting), held in the Tenth Ward, Salt Lake City, September 6, 1878—fifty-four years ago. "Bishop Speirs," it reads, "said there was one item of business he wished to speak about. Sister Martha Paul had, in connection with two others, been set apart by President John Taylor, to go East to learn the medical profession. She desires the use of this hall for a benefit, to assist her on her trip. Would like to know the mind of the brethren on the subject. On motion of Counselor Woods it was resolved to let her request be granted." This is an interesting bit of local history from more than one point of view. "Sister Martha Paul," as she was then known, lived in a community, it seems, that believed there should be women physicians, that these should be trained for their calling, that they should be "set apart" for the purpose by no less a person than the head of the Church, and that the "study of medicine" was so important a community affair as to justify the ward in giving her a "send-off," as they were in the habit of doing in the case of a missionary who was leaving to preach the gospel. It was a powerful psychological influence, and doubtless would bear its proper fruit, not only in the period of preparation of "study by faith," but also in the days after the return to the community where the service was to be rendered. Mrs. Cannon was born in Wales. Her father was Peter Hughes, her mother Elizabeth Evans. The father's home was in a Welsh village, where he engaged in cabinet-making; the mother's, in Birmingham, England, where her parents were well-to-do. Just how the two came together in the first place, is not known. Neither of them was then in the Church. On their marriage they settled in Wales. Here they embraced Mormonism, and here their three children were born, the second of whom was "Mattie." The occasion of their embracing the New Movement in religion is odd. While the mother lay in bed in one of her childbirths, perhaps her first, her sister-in-law, a Latter-day Saint, undertook to convert her to the faith. Of course, she just had to listen, for she could not possibly get away, and she was too refined and sensitive to become angry at what was intended to be a high service. In the end, both she and her husband became Mormons—much to the "humiliation" of the Evans side of the house. In those days the people no sooner became members of the new Church than they straightway got "the spirit of gathering" and wished to emigrate to "Zion." That was the case with the Hughes family. The parents of Mrs. Hughes, however, had very strenuous objections, especially on the score of their grandchildren. "You may go yourself," they said to their daughter. "That we cannot prevent. But you shall not take the children. The law will justify and help us there, and we shall surely invoke it." These good people would a thousand times rather their daughter had died, than go to a people of whom terrible things were being said. But wherever there's a will, as the old saw has it, there's a way. So the young couple gathered up what belongings they could not dispose of and, in a sense, stole away unawares. They landed in New York harbor worse than penniless, for the husband presently took sick of a "decline" and was unable to do any gainful work. The mother, in order to keep things together, took to making men's neckwear, which she sold, and thus made a bare living for the five members of the family. One day a strange man knocked at their door. He was looking, he said, for a family by the name of Hughes, late from Wales. Was this where they lived? It was. Very well, then, they were to get ready to go with a company to Utah, in a wagon that had been prepared for them. And here was four dollars to help them on the way. This stranger was Erastus Snow, an apostle of the new faith, and he had come by his knowledge of the Hughes family in a way known only to himself. Three days after arriving in the Valley the father died. And here the attractive young widow, then in her late twenties, with two children (the youngest had passed away en route) was left among total strangers, in unfamiliar conditions, and without any means of subsistence. Thus much of the family history has been given, to furnish a background for the figure we are attempting to outline here. The "benefit" over, Miss Paul betook herself to the train that was to carry her East to study. Seven years this plucky girl, with a man's self-assurance and ambition, stayed away, studying, preparing, for a career of usefulness, which she had mapped out for herself. First she went to Ann Arbor, Michigan, where she pursued a medical course and took the degree of M. D. Thence she went to Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, where she continued her medical studies. Whatever promised to increase her mastery of surgery and medicine she made her own. It happened that in the early eighties there was coming into prominence throughout the country a new science—the science of hygiene and public health. To this science we are indebted for the quarantine of contagious disease, the abolition of the public drinking cup, the pasteurization of milk, the official inspection of food-stuffs before they are placed on the market, the more frequent use of the bathtub and the toothbrush, the innumerable golf courses, tennis courts, sleeping porches, hikes into the country, and a thousand other things and activities that tend to make us all healthier and happier. For this larger ideal of service Martha Paul was especially prepared. She had been reared among a people who had given the world a crystalized form of health rules—the Word of Wisdom. And then there had always existed in the Mormon community a form of co-operative effort, a working of many as one, that set the pace. On the whole, the Latter-day Saints were inclined to be group-minded, rather than individual-minded. Live and help to live—that was the motto. And so, perhaps unconsciously but none the less certainly on that account, there came to this young woman a larger vision of service. To be sure, she would build up a private practice when she returned to her mountain home. It would be necessary to do that. But, in addition, she would do a larger work. She would introduce the new science of public health among her people, she would see to it that its principles were embodied in sanitary laws, and thus she would raise the standard of health in the community. But, in order to realize this higher service, she came to know that something more was necessary than a knowledge of medicine and surgery. She would have to be a publicist. So she did two things: First, she entered upon the courses essential to getting a Ph. D. And, secondly, she matriculated in the School of Oratory in Philadelphia, founded by those gifted persons, Mr. and Mrs. Shoemaker, then the leading teachers of public speaking in America, from which she took a degree, A. B. It is not an exaggeration, therefore, to say that Miss Paul was better equipped for the work she had mapped out for herself in Utah than any one else that could be named in the Territory. Her expenses at school during these seven years were met from three sources. A small monthly sum was sent her regularly by her step-father, which would have been larger if he had had more means. Then at the various colleges which she attended she did work at the dormitories, when she could spare the time from her studies. Finally, during summers, she acted as secretary to wealthy women, to whom she was recommended by the college authorities. Almost literally, then, Martha may be said to have worked her way through school, earning by hard effort three degrees—A. B., M. D., and Ph. D. This was an amazing thing, not only for a woman of those times, but for a woman of any time. Almost immediately she took up the practice of medicine. As a rule, she avoided performing surgical operations, and had them done for her. But she acquired an uncanny reputation in the diagnosis of diseases, for which she manifested a sort of intuition, in addition to both knowledge and skill. When she said to whoever was performing an operation for her, "Cut here," he came to know that the best results were obtained by cutting there. Presently she was asked to take medical charge of the Deseret Hospital, which was then located near the present site of the West High School, in Salt Lake City. It was in her capacity of hospital physician here that she became more closely acquainted with Angus M. Cannon, then president of the old Salt Lake stake, to whom she was subsequently married. Meantime, she did not permit herself to forget her larger ideal of public service. So, when she was asked to allow her name to be presented to the Democratic county convention as a candidate for the office of State senator, she welcomed it as an opportunity to get some of her health ideas enacted into laws. It was a source of no little merriment in November, when the election returns showed that she had won over her opponent—who happened to be her influential husband! This political victory for Dr. Cannon had greater significance than appeared at the time. For everywhere in those days Mormon women were looked upon as nothing less than serfs, and this victory at the polls for a woman—a victory that could not have been won in any other State in the Union—really opened the eyes of the nation to the true state of affairs in Utah, so far as the women were concerned. A man and his wife running on opposite tickets, the man being a high ecclesiast in the dominant church, and the wife winning in a free vote of the people, most of whom were members of that church! It was a fact sufficient to astound the nation—which it did. Martha Hughes Cannon, therefore, was the first woman to become State senator, not only in Utah, but in the United States as well. In the session of the legislature for 1899 (Utah was then a State) she introduced three bills on public health. These included hospital services for the deaf and dumb pupils in the State school at Ogden; quarantine regulations, requirements for burial permits, and tests for tuberculosis in cattle; and measures looking to the health of both teachers and pupils in the public schools, with special reference to such diseases as tuberculosis. These bills were all passed. They were the first of their kind in Utah, and constitute the foundation of our present public health laws. Dr. Cannon was an exceptional woman, an interesting personality in many ways. As a public speaker she was both pleasing and forceful, with a large supply of mother wit. From her remarkable mother, it would seem, she inherited that free, easy, graceful flow of language, which is the special gift of all the children of Mrs. Hughes-Paul. No one, man or woman, ever acquired an earlier purpose in life, a more persistent purpose, or pursued that end with more intelligent determination, than did "Mattie" Hughes-Paul. Dr. Cannon, moreover, was highly individual—if anyone ever was. Always she had her own way of thinking and doing. She abhorred conventions, unless they were also reasonable conventions. When, as a girl, she set type on the Deseret News, she put on boots in the winter time, which greatly shocked her girl friends and older women. The snows were heavier in the Valley those days, there were no street cars, and "Mattie" had to walk a long way to work. So she figured that dry feet and good health were more desirable than the observance of a silly convention. Then, too, after she came home from her seven-year study, she cut her hair short like a boy's. There is nothing in that to surprise us nowadays, when short hair is the fashion for women as for men. But one does not need much imagination to see that such a thing would shock a community reared in the dogma that her hair is the crowning glory of woman. It was at this same school that she subsequently undertook, in a short speech, to demonstrate the superiority of Western water to Eastern, and produced a quart jar of pure Utah liquid (it had been shipped to her as snow) in proof of her contention. And there you have a thumb-nail sketch of that interesting human document, Dr. Martha Hughes Cannon, now gone to her rest in Paradise.