Real Nerve By Afton Free Baird
THE wind-driven sleet of an early March storm had driven all the inhabitants of the little Utah settlement indoors for the evening. The Wasatch Mountains were still white with heavy snow and the wind which swept down through its canyons was bitterly cold. There were some who were fortunate enough to have their own cabins and families, but a few old-timers and myself had gathered around the red-hot, rusty stove in Uncle Billy's store to listen to the storm and to drive away the "lonesomeness." The old-timers grew reminiscent as the hour grew late, and the talk drifted around to the early days in the West. Hank Turner told of the iron nerve of a young cowpuncher, and Dad Potter told a yarn about a game young Indian-fighter. "Well, I dunno," says Uncle Billy, "I guess they was game enough, but strikes me some fellers' nerve is jest plain lucky recklessness. I once knowed a feller thet showed real nerve, as I calls it, an' it warn't none o' this daredevil show-off kind neither. It was more 'n real nerve in his case, too, 'cause he was naturally so timid-like and scared. It happened 'way back in the early days in Nauvoo—time when the Missourians an' the other factions was tryin' so hard to lay hands on Joseph Smith, the Prophet, an' the other Mormon leaders. This story was given first place in a contest which was conducted in Granite Stake under the auspices of the Literary Department as a fitting culmination to the two years course of study of the short story. There was a young convert livin' there named Timothy Rand—a tall, husky chap, maybe twenty-five years old—with a high, slanting forehead, an' a thin, long nose, an' pointed chin. In fact he looked a lot like the Prophet hisself. Everybody noticed it an' joked him 'bout it. Thet's what caused all his trouble. But fust, let me tell yo' more about him so's you'll understand. Several times he'd been asked t' join the Nauvoo guards placed 'round the city when trouble was abrewin', but he always managed to squeeze out of it somehow. He was as scared of a gun as a woman of a snake. Once, when I accidentally chopped my finger off, Tim fainted dead away at the sight o' blood. O' course, we all kinder laughed up our sleeves at him an' some o' the boys openly jeered at him. One time a committee asked him, jes' kind of in fun, t' offer a plan t' keep the trouble-makers out o' Nauvoo. Did yo' ever hear of the Whistling and Whittling Brigade?" Here Uncle Billy chuckled, "Well, sir, thet was his idee. We all laughed our fool heads off when we heard about it, but, by jove it did a heap o' good. Jest the same. The idee was this. Men was stationed 'round the town as sort o' lookouts an' jest as soon as they spotted a suspicious character they'd start a followin' him, a whistlin' an' a whittlin' a little stick. Never a word did they say, jest whistled, an' whittled, an' followed. It soon got on the stranger's nerve an' fust thing yo' know, they'd sneak right back where they come from. It worked jest the same, but. Somehow, it made folks laugh at Tim Rand all the more. Then somethin' happened," Uncle Billy straightened up in his chair and a more serious expression came over his old face. He went on. "A crowd of us neighbors 'round had gathered over at Peter Stone's place fer a little cottage prayer-meetin'. The house was on the edge o' town, down near the river—sort o' standin' off by itself. Fore we knowed what was goin' on a mob was 'pon us. They must o' been more'n a hundred of 'em—all armed an' more'n half drunk. I recognized the leader fust thing. One o' the toughest wallopers in the country—a regular giant, he was, with little close-set eyes thet made your blood run cold jest to look into 'em. 'Coyote' Wimmer, they called him—but Lord knows why! He was more like a wolf than a coyote. Well, sir, they sure had us in a trap. We shoved the women an' children in the provisions closet, an' turned 'round to see thet grinnin' devil fillin' up the doorway. Jest the minute he sees Tim Rand he takes him right off for the Prophet, hisself. If yo' could o' seen the look on his face yo'd a sworn thet it was Satan stood before yo'. 'Well?' Says he. 'We didn't hardly 'spect this great pleasure. It's you we're wantin', Joe Smith,' says he, pointing straight at Tim. 'Come along peaceful like an' we won't be molestin' the rest o' your prayin' outfit.' The name of the Prophet spread like wildfire. Already plumb crazy with whiskey an' hate, they was soon ten times worse. They hollered, they pushed, they cursed, an' they fought. I thought they was gonna push the whole front o' the house in. Standin' jest opposite me was Tim Rand. His face was ash-grey, an' I could see big drops o' sweat a standin' out on his pale forehead. But there was a strange set expression on his face I'd never seen before. No mistakin' he did have a look of the Prophet 'bout him. I stood like a dummy a starin' at him. 'Coyote' took a step closer, then I seemed to come to my senses. 'Thet ain't Joe Smith,' I yelled. 'You're wrong! Thet ain't Joe Smith; thet's Tim Rand—' But there warn't nobody a listenin' to me. The noise o' the mob was deafenin'. All tryin' to push themselves through the door at the same time. I tried to push Tim into the kitchen but he put out his hand to stop me. He was tryin' to tell me somethin'. I caught the words, women and children, and somethin' 'bout sparin' the rest o' us. Then as though to shake the fear clear out o' his soul, he jerked his shoulders an' his head up an' walked straight for the door. Well, sir, thet mob went plumb mad when they seen Tim—thinkin' him the Prophet, o' course. They liked to pulled him limb from limb. They drug him half a mile to a tree thet stood along near the center of Durfey Street an' there they bound him; abusin' him while they done it They beat him, stuck knives in him, an' cursed him. One big feller kept runnin' over to Beard's forge to heat an iron to brand him with. But never a sound did Tim make 'cept to groan now an' then. It warn't long till nearly all Nauvoo knowed what was happenin'. O' course, we had our signals, our own kind of wireless, so to speak. In no time the streets were full o' Mormons, all runnin' in the same direction to Durfey Street. A few had guns but most of 'em had clubs and sticks. One feller was a runnin' with a milk-stool in his hand. You see, the Prophet always warned us 'bout takin' any needless lives," explained Uncle Billy, then he went on again in his quaint way. "When the mob seen the Mormons comin', they soon scattered, firin' a few wild shots as they ran, an' leavin' poor Tim a hangin' limp over the ropes thet bound him to the tree. Well, sir, everybody thought he was dead. We untied his poor, bloody body and laid it carefully on the grass. Every jack-last man thet stood there with his hat off a lookin' down at him, knowed they'd prob'ly never again get a chance t' see another man thet was half as much a man as Tim." "Did he die?" I asked. "No, sir, he lived! The prophet had him carried up to the Manor House, an' there he was nursed back to life again. O' course he carried some mighty bad scars the rest o' his life." Uncle Billy stretched his feet out to the fire, then concluded, "Well, boys, thet's what I calls a show o' real nerve."
An Autumn Picnic By Lucy Rose Middleton
"Orchards with apples and peach trees fruited deep" now belong to the past. Little remains in the frost-bitten October fields except pumpkins and shocks of corn. We are reminded on every hand to make the best use of what good weather remains, for the snows of winter are not far off. High in the clear sky by night rides a harvest moon, casting shadows of the trees across the earth. Brisk breezes tear brown rustling leaves from every branch. The spirit of Hallowe'en beckons us to venture out for the last picnic of the year. The ideal way to go on a picnic is to hike, but I think most of us would tuck our baskets of lunch in a car. Five or six o'clock is the best hour to start, so that the selection of a suitable place and gathering wood for the bonfire may be done in the daylight. The menu need not be elaborate nor need it require much preparation in advance. The neatly home-made-and-trimmed sandwiches would not lend the proper atmosphere to a bonfire dinner, so I suggest that they be made by the light of the fire. One favorite dinner is steak and onions. The onions can be boiled until tender at home, then added to the hot fat after the steak is fried. In this way, they only require five or ten minutes for browning. Serve with toasted rolls. Another delectable combination is mock clubhouse sandwich. Take tenderloin steak in one inch thick pieces (each weighing about 4 ounces), a slice of a large onion and a slice of bacon. Thread on a green twig in order named and hold over glowing coals. When done sprinkle with salt and pepper and AN AUTUMN PICNIC place between two slices of bread. Sliced or whole tomatoes may accompany this concoction. Probably the most common of dinners prepared over the bonfire consists of frankfurters and toasted rolls. Fried bacon and slices of tomato may be put between graham muffins which have been split and buttered. Another sandwich could be made by spreading butter and cheese on one side of a slice of bread and topping with a slice of tomato. Toast underside of bread slowly so cheese will melt and tomato will warm through. When done add a strip of fried bacon and another slice of toast. The toast will taste smoky, but that is a desired flavor. Roasted potatoes and corn are good additions to the meal. The potatoes, which have been washed well and the unhusked corn should be, buried well in hot coals and left there until tender. When done, serve with butter, salt, and pepper. Apple cider or soft drinks are always suitable. If you are fortunate enough to be camped on a stream of water they could be omitted. The dessert, if any is desired, should be of the simplest kind. Crisp doughnuts, apple turnovers, or toasted marshmallows are good. As it is the season for apples, they, too, would make an ample dessert. Could one ask for a better dinner? Very few utensils are required on such an occasion—paper plates, cups, paper napkins and maybe a frying pan. The latter is really unnecessary unless onions and steak are to be cooked together, for otherwise the frying can be done by holding the meats over the coals with long forked sticks. The toasting of bread and rolls may be done in the same way. Long-handled marshmallow forks are often very 5108) handy. They can be purchased at your favorite "five and ten." Knives and forks are not to be forgotten. One thing more I want to remind you of is the care of the fire and grounds when ready to leave. All the rubbish should be buried and no live embers left. Water and dirt are effective in quenching all remnants of the bonfire. RECIPES FOR OCTOBER DAYS Cream of Pea Soup with Tomato 21/2 cups milk. 1 stalk celery. 1/2 onion. 2 cups of peas. 4 tablespoons butter. 4 tablespoons flour. Salt and pepper. In a double boiler, cook for 20 minutes the celery and onion in 1 cup of milk. In a saucepan, melt the butter then add the flour. Cook well but don't brown, then add the rest of the milk (14% cups). Stir constantly until the mixture boils, then gradually add the hot milk from which the celery and onion have been removed. Press the peas through a sieve. When ready to serve combine the two mixtures; season well with salt and pepper. To each service, add three or four firm sections of hot, cooked tomatoes. Baked Squash 6 medium size pieces of squash. 6 tablespoons brown sugar. \% teaspoon paprika. 6 small slices bacon. Remove seeds and pulp from squash and peel. Place portion of salt, sugar, paprika, and bacon on each piece. Bake until tender in a moderately hot oven. Autumn Salad Remove the outside skin from grapefruit; separate the pulp into 594 sections and discard seeds and thin skin between; with care, the sections can be retained whole. Let chill. Fill tender stalks of celery with a mixture of cream cheese and stuffed olives. Peel and slice fresh tomatoes. Arrange the prepared fruit and vegetables on heart leaves of crisp lettuce and serve with French dressing. Butter Scotch Rolls 2 cups scalded milk. 3 tablespoons butter. 2 tablespoons sugar. 2 teaspoons salt. 1 yeast cake dissolved in 1/2 cup lukewarm water. Flour (about 5 1/2 cups). Add butter, sugar and salt to milk. When lukewarm, add dissolved yeast cake and 3 cups flour. Beat thoroughly, cover and let rise until light. Cut down then add enough flour to make a soft dough. Let rise until double in bulk, and toss on lightly floured board. Roll out 41/2 inch thick, spread with butter and sprinkle with brown sugar. Roll up like jelly roll. Cut in 34 inch pieces. Melt 4 tablespoons butter in rather deep baking pan and cover with 34 cup brown sugar. One-half cup of pecan nuts may be put in this mixture if desired. Brush sides of rolls with melted butter. Place close together on sugar mixture in pan, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE cut side down. Let rise until double in bulk. Bake 25 minutes in a moderately hot oven (375 degrees). Serve butterscotch side up. Lemon Pie 9 level tablespoons cornstarch. 1 1/3 cup sugar. % teaspoon salt. 3 cups hot water. 3 egg yolks. 1 tablespoon butter. Y2 cup strained lemon juice and rind of one lemon. Mix together the cornstarch, sugar, and salt; then add gradually 3 cups of hot water. Stir and cook thoroughly. Very accurate measurements and thorough cooking of cornstarch insure exactly the right consistency every time. Add a little of the hot mixture to the well beaten egg-yolks; stir well, then return to sauce pan for gentle cooking. A double boiler is not used since the cornstarch can stand intense heat, and needs constant stirring. The heat is reduced for the quick cooking after the egg-yolks are added. Remove from fire; add the butter, lemon juice and grated rind. Cool somewhat, then put into previously baked crust. Cover with meringue made from the egg whites and 3 tablespoons sugar. Bake 15 minutes at 375 degrees Fah. When completely cold, the filling stands like jelly.