[Vol33 | June 1946 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: The Settlement of Jensen]

Tuttle The Settlement of Sanpete Valley Leda Thompson Jensen Former Member, Relief Society General Board PART I HE early history of Sanpete Valley is closely associated with the Ute Indians, a tribe of the Shoshone family, who claimed this rich Valley as their own before the white men came. From these Indians the names Sanpete and Sanpitch are derived. June 14, 1849, not quite two years after the first company of pioneers entered Salt Lake Valley, a delegation of Ute Indians accompanied Chief Walker to Salt Lake City to visit Brigham Young, with the request that settlers be sent to the valley of the Sanpitch River to teach the Indians to build houses and till the soil. "HIGH COUNTRY  The valley to which Chief Walker led an exploring party of four men, Joseph Horn, W. W. Phelps, Ira Willes, and D. B. Huntington, lay about a hundred miles south of Salt Lake City in the center of Utah. It was five thousand to six thousand feet above sea level, with the Wasatch Mountains to the east, the Sanpitch Mountains to the west, and the Sanpitch River flowing from north to south through the valley. The Indians treated the four men royally, and, after exploring the natural resources, they returned to report that everything was favorable for founding a colony. A company of about fifty families from Salt Lake City THE PLATEAU EAST OF SANPETE VALLEY Page 

 ?JUNE 1946 COUNTY COURTHOUSE, MANTI, UTAH Lake City and Centerville was organized and started for Sanpete Valley.
They traveled due south to Salt Creek Canyon, the pass which connects Juab with Sanpete County.
They cleared roads, built bridges, and successfully passed through the Canyon.
Then they moved on to the present site of Manti, Utah. November 22, 1849, the first camp was made on the banks of the creek that flowed out of the canyon to the east.
Wagon boxes were used as temporary homes. In a few days it began to snow, and it snowed almost continually until the ground was covered to a 'depth of three or four feet. The winter was very severe. The settlers moved from City Creek to the south side of the hill on which the Manti Temple now stands.
Some of the families lived in dugouts. Two babies, born one January night, were wrapped in a large cowhide to keep them from freezing to death.
After the camp had been made in readiness for winter, a company of twelve men, under the command of Jerome Bradley, returned to Salt Lake City for supplies. On the return trip, the supply wagons were halted in Provo because of Indian trouble and, when they reached Salt Creek Canyon in January, they were unable to get through the snow. Men on snowshoes with hand-drawn sleds made their way from Manti to the snowbound wagons over drifts eight to twenty feet deep.
Many trips were made until the supplies were removed. The wagons were not able to get through the Canyon and reach Manti until the last day of March 18so. The men and boys were kept busy most of the time shoveling away the snow to bare the grass for feed for the cattle. Only 113, of the 240 head of cattle brought with them, were alive the following June; and only one team of horses had THE SETTLEMENT OF SANPETE VALLEY strength enough to pull a plow. The Indians camped around the colony and devoured the dead animals to keep from starving.
Then came spring, and on the evening after the first warm day, the hissing of hundreds of rattlesnakes startled the colonists.
Gliding from holes in the mountain, from under the rocks and the shelter of evergreens and shrubs, they writhed and wiggled about in beds, boxes, and cupboards, They attacked the horses and cattle.
With the aid of pine-knot torches, the settlers united in warfare against them. One of the brethren killed thirty in one day.
Nearly five hundred were killed in one night. The camp was finally rid of the reptiles. The most remarkable thing about the whole
SHEEP ON SUMMER RANGE IN SANPETE COUNTY 375 incident was the fact that not one person was bitten.
With the coming of spring, the land was plowed, seeds were planted, and, soon, fresh vegetables were available. The soil Proved very productive, and ditches were dug from the creek to irrigate the land.
Notwithstanding his pleadings for white neighbors, Chief Walker frequently tried to stir up trouble. Had it not been for an aged, diplomatic chief, Soweitte, the inhabitants of Manti might have been massacred that first winter.
Early attempts to make settlements at Spring City, Mount Pleasant, and Ephraim, north of Manti, failed, due to the depredations of the Indians who forced the venturesome pioneers back Manti, to the fort at 376 were made upon the settlements, cattle and horses were stolen, guards were killed and scalped, herders and wood haulers were attacked. The only flour mill in the Valley, located at the mouth of Manti Canyon, was burned after the miller and guard had been slain. The drivers of four teams of oxen hauling grain to Salt Lake were killed, the sacks were cut open, and the grain scattered and wasted.
These incidents could be multiplied many times if all the hostile deeds of the Indians were related. The most bitter Indian trouble in Utah was centered in Sanpete County, with the Indians carrying on their depredations as far north as Payson in Utah County, and south to Richfield in Sevier County.
Walker incited his braves to constantly harass the settlers from 1852 until his death in 1855.
This period of warfare was known as the Walker War. Arropine, the brother of  
Walker, professed much love for the Latter-day Saints, and, as evidence of his friendship, deeded the entire County of Sanpete to Brigham Young for the benefit of the Church. The Indians saw their lands being taken from them.
Land to an Indian is his means of livelihood, his wealth. At this time, also, the government was urging that the Indians be placed on reservations. Undoubtedly, these two factors combined, placed the Indians on the defensive and a number of incidents precipitated the worst Indian outbreak in Utah, which lasted three years (1865-1868) and was known as the Black Hawk War. The area of greatest conflict was centered in Sanpete and Sevier Counties.
Small bands of Indians, twenty-five to one hundred in number, constantly harassed the settlements, taking the lives of at least seventy people, destroying thousands WHEAT FIELD IN "THE GRANARY OF UTAH" THE SETTLEMENT OF SANPETE VALLEY of dollars worth of property, and forcing an expenditure of $1,121,037 by the Territory of Utah. The help of the militia of the Territory and of United States Indian agents was necessary before a treaty was concluded by General Morrow of the United States Army at Mt. Pleasant, September 7, 1872.
After this, the Indians were placed on reservations provided and maintained by the Government of the United States. In August 1850, President Brigham Young visited the first settlement in Sanpete, named it Manti, after a notable Book of Mormon city, and the county, Sanpete, after the Indian tribe inhabiting the -Valley, whose chief was Sanpitch. February 6, 1851, Manti was made a city by act of the Legislature, and, on February 3, 1852, a bill passed the Legislature creating Sanpete County.
After the Walker War, settlements were made at suitable places in the County, the first successful attempt being made in the early spring of 1854, when Reuben W.
Allred and fifteen families from Manti moved seven miles north to Pine Creek, the present site of Ephraim.
Sporadic uprisings of the Indians made the building of a fort necessary, and the homes were built inside the enclosure. It was not until 1860, that the residents left the fort and erected homes on their city lots. The first two years in the history of Ephraim were days of trials and disappointments, which none but the most determined men and women could endure. The Indians were not the only source of dread and anxiety. A frost killed the first 377 crop of grain, and grasshoppers destroyed almost every other species of vegetation. The settlers men, women, and children fought day and night to rid the land of millions of grasshoppers which devoured everything they could. In 1857, a bountiful harvest encouraged and heartened those hardy pioneers, and the granaries were filled to overflowing with wheat. It was demonstrated that the climate and soil of Sanpete County were well adapted for the growing of grain, and, so bounteous were the harvests, that Brigham Young called the County, "The Granary of Utah."
Most of the agricultural lands in the County required irrigation, which led to this science being thoroughly developed by the Sanpete pioneers. In the early sixties, thousands of bushels of grain went from Sanpete across the plains to feed the immigrant trains.
Sanpete became an agricultural county of small holdings in farm property.
Stock and sheep raising became supplementary industries. In the Production of wool and mutton, Sanpete County at one time lead not only the counties of Utah but all the counties of the entire United States. In March of 1859, Mt.
Pleasant and Spring City were resettled and new colonies were begun at Moroni and Gunnison. In August and October of the same year, the sites for Fountain Green and Fairview were located and settled. In December of 1857, Bishop John E.