TWO PRAYERS 441 joined. There was no official conductor; no paid chorus; no orchestral accompaniment; just these honest country people singing. It grew upon me that this was not a song; it was a prayer, welling up from the hearts of these good women, when the words, "God be with you, 'til we meet again" came timidly, sweetly and tremulously from a thousand throats. I have heard the great music of Wagner rendered by the artists of Munich, and have been enraptured by the masters of song in Grand Opera at Paris, and have thrilled when the voice of Caruso lifted in majestic grandeur above a singing congregation of twenty thousand, in Madison Square Garden, as he sang "America." But never have I been so deeply touched as I was by the voices of these good people that night as they sang "God be with you, till we meet again," for it seemed as if He who sets the great stage of Life, had set this scene, and had turned streams of moonlight down through the foliage of the great old trees, and here and there, had so shot a moonbeam, that it touched a bowed and grizzled old head, from which a quavering voice joined devoutly in the refrain. It was not a song; it was a prayer. Editor's Note——The above article was sent by Mr. Hanchett to President Heber J. Grant with the request: "Do me the favor to read this." President Grant was so impressed with the beauty of Mr. Hanchett's tribute, that he wired it in full to President Harding, then at Tacoma on his way to Alaska.) Mrs. Warren G. Harding On the 27th of July, of this year, Mrs. Warren G. Harding wrote from Seattle, Washington, thanking President Clarissa S. Williams for the flowers presented to her while in Salt Lake City, on behalf of the Relief Society. Her letter reads: "The beautiful corsage bouquet which you and the Latter-day Saint Relief Society sent me during my visit to Salt Lake City gave me much pleasure, as did the kind wishes with which it was sent, and I would be grateful if you would convey to your members our cordial thanks. "With warm appreciation of your thought, I am "Sincerely yours, "Florence Kling Harding." Ten days had not elapsed from the time Mrs. Harding wrote this letter until she was crossing the continent, bowed in grief, accompanying the remains of her beloved and distinguished husband.

 The Relief Society was glad to honor her as the first lady of the land, and to show her such appreciation as was in its power, while she was a guest in our midst. The impulse to extend all kindness and all possible sympathy to her has deepened with her sorrow. The mission of the Relief Society from the very beginning has been a mission of succor and comfort. Its idea has been to relieve distress of whatever name or nature that distress might be, as far as it is able. There is nothing that the members of this organization would not do to give comfort to Mrs. Harding in this hour of bereavement to her. The prayer of its members is that our Heavenly Father will be merciful to her and will send her the comfort she needs in this hour of sore trial. The World's Needs The world needs knowledge. See to spread The store you glean from Wisdom's pages; The thoughts of seers that now are dead Must go to brighten future ages. The world needs faith. How hard to trust, When all the earth's full of deceiving. Let word be true and act be just; Help us once more to faith believing. The world needs sympathy to deal With grieving, suffering, sorrowing brothers: To help us realize, to feel The poignant grief afflicting others. The world needs love to heal the wounds Inflicted in hate's awful hour. May love's refrain absorb all sounds, And hate's mad jargon lose all power. —D. H. Sherman, in Ohio Educational Monthly. Boy of my Dreams Ruth Moench Bell. "Well, I guess I'll go to bed," Curtis Langley yawned, as he looked at the clock, whose hands indicated nine. Catherine Langley did not glance up from her needlework, though she smiled demurely. Every evening for ever so many years, she had heard her husband make the same remark in the same way at the same time. "The moonlight is wonderful on the terrace,'' Catherine observed. She drew a soft, cream-colored shawl about her and crossed over to the French windows. A flood of moonligit streamed in, as she drew the curtains aside and switched off the lights. "Wouldn't you like to sit out there or walk in it for a few minutes? It is still early, you know." - "The air is getting so darn nippy," Curtis yawned again. "Not to-night! I think I'll go to bed." Curtis picked up the shoes, which he had taken off earlier in the evening. His coat still hung over the back of his chair. He would leave it there. It was easier to find it in the morning when he left for work. Shoes in hand, he walked in his sox to the bed-room door and then turned, as strains of music came floating in. Catherine had opened the French windows. An orchestra was playing a dreamy waltz. "Oh, can't you hear it, dear?" Catherine cried. "They are dancing at the Bijou." "Yep, does sound good," Curtis yawned again and went ia to the bed-room., "Let's dress and run over for one little waltz or two," Catherine coaxed. "I'd have to shave and have a bath," Curtis grumbled. "You run over if you're so crazy for a dance. There's sure to be some one there you know." "Curtis, alone?" "Why not? It's only around the corner. You're safe. Nobody'd get you." "What makes you so sure." Catherine smiled sweetly. And then under her breath added: "Dear Boy of my Dreams, come back to me to-night." Glancing up at a photograph on the piano, Catherine,-her voice a caressing murmur, her fingers trailing lingeringly over the keys, began a tender little love song.

 "Hang it all, Catherine, can't you find time for that sort of thing in the day time?" "T've finished," his wife observed and went into her dressing room, standing for a minute between the draperies, which covered the door, awaiting the next remark, a remark which she knew would be the begining of something very different that evening. It came and she disappeared at once between the curtains. "By the way, wasn't that gas bill too large, this month?' Curtis came back to the sitting room, his suspenders hanging down over his trousers. "How much is it?' Catherie inquired from her dressing room. "The bill is in my pocket." Curtis fumbled about in his pocket and brought out, not the gas bill but a note which he read with varying expressions. "Hullo, what's this?" he murmured to himself. "This isn't the bill. Where did this come from? What does it mean, anyhow? 'One who knew you as a boy, because of that early regard, gives you this chance to win your wife's love," he read. Curtis dropped down into his chair and re-read the note. "One who knew you as a boy, because of that early regard, gives you this chance to win your wife's love or release her honorably to him." "That sounds interesting,' Curtis observed to himself, with some amusement. "Another of those triangles, huh? Only, it's got into the pocket of the wrong fellow. A little melodrama. Some fellow's going to get some stage stuff worked into his affairs. Somebody else in love with Catherine, with Catherine?" He threw back his head and laughed, secure in a domestic peace which nothing had ever disturbed. He turned the note over quisically in his hand. And then his countenance changed. "Great Scott," he exclaimed under his breath. "This isn't meant for me. What the devil—" he examined the address again. "Curtis Langley. I'm Curtis Langley, all right."" With a new interest, he resumed reading: "Many a night after you have gone to bed, we have spent the evening together." Curtis glanced anxiously at the curtained door through which his wife had gone a few minutes before. "Tonight, at the masked ball," the note continued, "she has promised to come to me forever. I prefer there shall be no stain on her name; and for that reason, give you this chance. The duplicate of the costume I am to wear, you will find in the hall wrapped and addressed to you." Curtis read more rapidly, "I am to call for her soon after nine. You may put on the costume and keep the appointment and I will call one hour later.