[Vol52 | January 1965 | Page 24 | Special Feature | Love's Gifts — Third Prize Poem Lila | Bennett Spencer]
Then we are prompted to tune our ears to the clamor of empty rooms Swelling with hoarded echoes!; } 24 Love's Gifts Lila Bennett Spencer When spring came the children danced with magic feet Across the bald, uneven fields, I To find the flowers' hiding places. Bright buffalo beans in gay profusion spilling from their arms, They ran to greet their mother. I With worship at her fingertips, she took their proffered blooms, And all the glory that was spring Was captured in their rooms. In June they found the wild rose blooming — A tiny splash of color on the plains, I And clusters shy beside the road. Not minding thorns, their eager fingers plucked, And made a wreath to give her. She smelled the sweetness; put them in her hair, 4 And al! The loveliness of earth Seemed centered there. They told her when the rainbow came, After a fickie spat of rain, One parched and heavy summer day. She stopped her work, and raised her eyes to drink the beauty in, And on her cheeks the soft tears lay. "Sheer gossamer,'' they heard her raptly cry. "How like a bolt of fairy silk Suspended in the sky!"' When autumn came, and leaves ali orange and brown, Hung listlessly upon the trees, They heard the wild geese call. She stood there, with her arms around them alli, as overhead They watched the ordered flight. Her lips were silent, but her trembling arms said more, Shared freedom's wondrous pull, and urged Each sluggish soul to soar. Through ail the months, Through all the years, They brought her gifts. She took them in her ample hold. Sometimes in tears, Sometimes in smiles, And gave them back An hundredfold. Lenora Hansen, af lives in Snowflake, Ari local ward and Ss yet been Publj 'S. Hansen Spe & of 1964. N€ Creative ome: en, and they have two: Mrs. Gale Barne f ] "wir San Jose, California: an €randchildren. Ge Studyj, Presenteq for the oem Contest. "TL owri write,"' She Senealog » and am Presidency. A 25 The Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the award winners in the Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest, which was announced in the May 1964 issue of the Magazine, and which closed August 15, 1964. The first prize of seventy-five dollars is awarded to Venda Brown Castleberry, Provo, Utah, for her story ''Heart Room.'' The second prize of sixty dollars is awarded to Lael J. Littke, Monterey Park, California, for her story ''Among Strangers.'' The third prize of fifty dollars is awarded to Norma A. Wrathall, Sunnyvale, California, for her story ''A Doll for Emarita.'"'. The Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest was first conducted by the Relief Society General Board in 1942, as a feature of the Relief Society Centennial observance, and was made an annual contest in 1943. The contest is open to Latter-day Saint women who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication in a periodical of recognized merit. The three prize-winning stories will be published consecutively in the first three issues of The Relief Society Magazine for 1965. Fifty-five stories were entered in the contest for 1964, including submissions from Canada, Australia, England, and Wales. Mrs. Castleberry is a firsttime winner in the contest; Mrs. Littke is represented for the second time; and Mrs. Wrathall is a fourth-time winner. The contest was initiated to encourage Latter-day Saint women to express themselves in the field of fiction. The General Board feels that the response to this opportunity continues to increase the literary quality of The Relief Society Magazine and aids the women of the Church in the development of their gifts in creative writing. This year's submissions were of an excellent quality. Prize-winning stories are the property of the General Board of Relief Society and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other stories submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rate. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait for two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest.