[Vol22 | July 1935 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Guide | Title: Lesson Department]

Lesson Department (For First Week in December) Theology and Testimony LESSON III The Temple at Nauvoo 1. The City of Nauvoo.
Nauvoo may properly be regarded as the "miracle city" of America; indeed, of the world.
Within a period of five years it grew from half a dozen small shacks into the largest and most beautiful city of the state of Illinois.
While it is true that a few other cities equally as large as Nauvoo have sprung up within even shorter periods of time, here the comparison ends. The discovery of gold in western America, for example, has repeatedly brought cities into existence almost over night.
Goldfield and Tonopah, Nevada, are good examples.
These cities, however, were built by men crazed with the thought of wealth.
They were thrown together with feverish speed, each individual trying to get ahead of his neighbor.
Gambling halls, pool rooms, saloons, and other dives of vice were among the first to appear. Law and order were largely ignored for the "needs" of the moment.
Cities such as these were truly "camps," doomed to disappear after they had served the requirements of the hour. 2. Nauvoo, on the other hand, was built by a people who loved the Lord, and where every ambition was to serve him and bring about a reign of eternal peace.
There was no thought of worldly wealth or material gain; each individual was his brother's helper; protected sin and indulgence were unknown; and the city was constructed to remain. 3. The very site of Nauvoo was purchased on long time payments. The saints had recently been exiled" from Missouri, where they were robbed and plundered of practically everything they owned.
Many of them were so completely destitute that they had to be transported to Illinois by their friends. But with a courage unknown except to those who are fired by a testimony of the Christ, the Mormon people, impoverished and: almost without food, went fearlessly forward to the building of a city?to be better and more beautiful than anything that had been built before. And right in the midst of the city, and overlooking its principal residential section, a commanding position was reserved for its temple. 4, Within a year after its beginning, Nauvoo had a population of three thousand, and six years later, at the time of the western exodus, nearly twenty thousand. The site was a most beautiful one. The great Mississippi swept around it on three sides in a broad meandering curve. Near 'the river the land was only a few feet above its surface, but toward the east it gradually rose to a height of several hundred feet to the level of the so-called prairie land beyond. The temple was to be built at the crest of the hill, and the city principally below. 5. Asa result of well-planned cooperative efforts, building materials were brought from far and near, and a truly beautiful city appeared, almost as if by magic. The residential LESSON DEPARTMENT section was laid out in rectangular blocks, by streets running principally east-west and _ northsouth. At the close of five years Nauvoo contained hundreds of homes of a type that would grace any modern city, beautifully, substantially, and in some cases even ornately built. It was Illinois' largest city, and without doubt its most attractive one. 6. Earlier Efforts at Temple Building.
Already the saints had built and dedicated a temple at Kirtland, in which the Lord Jesus Christ and other heavenly personages appeared. (D. And C., section 110) Probably more spiritual blessings were poured out on the saints in the Kirtland temple than at any other place.
This privilege, however, was enjoyed by the people of God for scarcely more than two years, when they were compelled by. The hand of violence to abandon their temple and seek refuge in an unkindly state (Missouri) nearly a thousand miles to the westward. 7.
Even earlier than this, and before the temple at Kirtland was begun, the Lord made known that a temple should be reared in Zion, at Independence, Jackson County, Missouri. (D. And C. 57:3) The site was dedicated in solemn assembly but for various reasons, principally the defection of the Latter-day Saints, the temple has not been constructed to this day. The saints, however, look forward with confident hope to its building in the future. 8.
Shortly after the Prophet and several of the leading brethren reached Missouri from Kirtland in the early spring of 1838, a revelation was received in which Far West was designated as a central gathering place for the saints and the location of a temple to be built to the Most High.
According to divine instruction, the corner stones were placed July 4, 1838. (See D. And C.., 449 section 115) The injunction was also given to re-commence the work April 26, 1839. (D. And C. 115:10; 118:5) Pursuant to this instruction, a number of the brethren assembled at the temple site under cover of darkness in the early morning of the last-named date, sang songs, delivered exhortations, and began the work of laying the foundation stones.
Almost immediately thereafter the few saints still remaining in Missouri left their homes for Illinois. 9.
Beginning of the Temple at Nauvoo.
Undismayed by their enforced abandonment of the temple at Kirtland, and their inability to construct temples at Independence and Far West, the saints, upon arriving at Nauvoo, almost immediately laid plans for the erection of a temple at that place. As early as October 3, 1840, the Prophet, in a sermon delivered before the general conference of the Church at Nauvoo, "Spoke of the necessity of building a 'House of the Lord' in this place.
Whereupon it was Resolved: That the saints build a house for the worship of God." (History of the Church, Vol. IV, p. 205) Reynolds Cahoon, Elias Higbee, and Alpheus Cutler were named as the building committee. It was also resolved that work begin within ten days. Ina general epistle to the Church issued under date of January 15, 1841, the First Presidency announced that "The Temple of the Lord is in process of erection here, where the saints will come to worship the God of their fathers, according to the order of his house and the powers of the Holy Priesthood." (History of the Church, Vol. IV, p. 269) 10.
Baptism for the Dead. The subject of baptism for the dead was first made known to the saints in a sermon delivered by the Prophet at the funeral service of Elder Seymour Brunson, August 10, 1840. 450
The following statement was contained in an epistle written by the Prophet to the Apostles then in Great Britain: "I presume the doctrine of 'baptism for the dead' has ere this reached your ears, and may have raised some inquiries in your minds respecting the same. I first mentioned the doctrine in' public when preaching the funeral sermon of Brother Seymour Brunson; and have since then given general instructions in the church on the subject. The saints have the privilege of being baptized for those of their relatives who are dead, whom they believe would have embraced the gospel, if they had been privileged with hearing it, and who have received the Gospel in the spirit through the instrumentality of those who have been comnimissioned to preach to them while in prison." (History of the Church, Vol. IV, p. 231) 11. For slightly more than a year after this doctrine was revealed, the saints were privileged to perform the ordinance of baptism for the dead in the Mississippi river, but this was withdrawn as soon as a baptismal font was completed in the Nauvoo temple. Indeed, as early as October 3, 1841, the Prophet announced: 'There shall be no more baptisms for the dead until the ordinance can be attended to in the Lord's House; and the church shall not hold another General Conference until they can meet in said house. For thus saith the Lord.".12. Revelation Concerning the Temple. On the 19th of January, 1841; some five months after the Prophet first announced the doctrine of baptism for the dead, the Lord gave a revelation touching various phases of the subject. (D. And C. 124:25-49) The revelation is particularly explicit concerning the necessity of a baptismal font (verses 29-36). The Lord accepted the location already selected for the temple and promised that he would show Joseph all things pertaining to the house and the priesthood thereof (verses 42-43). He further declared that if the people would hearken unto his voice, they would not be moved out of their place (verse 45). He then made the consoling declaration that when the sons of men go forth with all their might to fulfill the commandments of God, but are prevented by their enemies from performing the work, the Lord will accept their offering and require no more at their hands. (verse 49)
13. Laying of the Corner Stones. Spurred on to the necessity of immediate action by this revelation, the people of the church were quick to respond, and on the 6th day of April, 1841?the eleventh anniversary of the organization of the church?the corner stones of the temple were laid with impressive ceremony. This was a gala day for Nauvoo. At twelve o'clock noon, a procession of fourteen companies of the "Nauvoo Legion" together with two volunteer companies from Iowa arrived at the temple ground and enclosed it in a hollow square. Lieutenant-General Joseph Smith was in command. The interior of the square was occupied by a host made up of staff officers, guards, distinguished visitors, the band, the choir, men, women and children. After an appropriate address by Sidney Rigdon, the architects lowered the southeast corner stone and the Prophet said: "This principal corner stone in representation of the First Presidency is now duly laid in honor of the Great God; and may it there remain until the whole fabric is completed; and may the same be accomplished speedily; that the saints may have a place to worship God, and the Son of Man have where to lay his head." (History of the Church, Vol. IV, p. 329)
14. Dedication of the Baptismal Font. Thereafter work on the temple must have gone forward at a rapid pace for only seven months later, November 8, 1841, the font was ready for dedication. President Brigham Young was the spokesman. The font is described as oval-shaped, sixteen feet long by twelve feet wide, made of tongued and grooved pine timber, and mounted with a cap of beautifully carved woodwork of antique design. The whole was supported by twelve oxen, their heads, shoulders and forefeet projecting from beneath. (See History of the Church, Vol. IV, p. 446)*
15. The First Temple Baptisms. A most interesting thing occurred on the 21st of November, 1841. At noon of this day the Twelve met in council at the residence of President Brigham Young. At four o'clock they repaired to the baptismal font in the basement of the temple, where Elders Brigham Young, Heber C. Kimball, and John Taylor baptized about forty persons for their dead. The confirmations were made by Elders Willard Richards, Wilford Woodruff, and George A. Smith. These were the first baptisms for the dead in the temple font. Thereafter from time to time until the saints left Nauvoo, baptisms for the dead were performed in the temple. (See History of the Church, Vol. IV, p. 454) Thus for four and one-half years before the temple was fully completed and dedicated, ordinance work was in progress within it.
16. Completion of the Temple. The work of completing the temple progressed slowly but without marked interruption, and this fact becomes the more surprising when it is considered that as the temple rose, opposition to the church heightened.
*This was a temporary font and was later replaced.
The people contributed generously of both their time and money, chiefly in the form of tithes. A short time before his death, Patriarch Hyrum Smith, acting as one of the temple committee, asked the women of the church to assist by giving a weekly donation of one cent apiece to be used principally for the purchase of glass and nails. It is recorded that the women were so anxious to assist that nearly all paid a year's subscription in advance.
17. But the Prophet and his brother Hyrum were not permitted to see the completion of the building. On the 27th of June, 1844, these men of God were cut down by the assassins' bullets at Carthage, Illinois. The saints, although temporarily stupefied by the loss of their leaders, soon regained their composure and within two weeks work was resumed on the temple.
18. On the 25th of May, 1845, the capstone was laid with impressive ceremony; President Brigham Young was in charge. In October of 1845 the building was sufficiently well advanced that large assemblies were held in it. During the latter part of 1845 and the early part of 1846, many of the saints received their blessings and endowments in the temple, even though the exodus from Nauvoo was already in progress. The temple was publicly dedicated in the presence of about three hundred people on April 1, 1846. By September of the same year it was in the hands of mobs. Meanwhile the saints who had toiled and sacrificed to build it were making their way westward toward a new refuge in the Rocky Mountains. Two years later the temple fell prey to an act of incendiarism and in 1850 its blackened walls were leveled to the ground by a passing tornado. Thereafter it was regarded as public property and carried away.
Suggestions for Discussion and Review
1. In what respects may Nauvoo be regarded as one of the most remarkable cities in America? Why could it not have been built by ordinary people?
2. Have someone describe in detail the conditions under which work was begun on the temple foundations at Far West, April 26, 1839.
3. How do you account for the fact that when the saints were prevented from building a temple at
Far West, they immediately began one at Nauvoo? 4, Have someone read and explain paragraph 49 of the 124th section of the Doctrine and Covenants. Cite illustrations in which the principle probably applies. 5. Why in your judgment will the Lord not acknowledge baptisms for the dead made outside the temple? 6. Why did the saints continue to work on the Nauvoo temple when they knew they would not be permitted to use it?