Exit Back Yard, Enter Out-door Living Room
By Maud Chegwidden

THE back yard is passing. In its place comes the out-door living room. No longer is the back yard to be the catch-all for the miscellaneous articles that have no other place. No longer is it to be the unsightly spot that we hope the neighbors will not see. The back yard is being transformed into an attractive, useful out-door living room.

This transformation is the result of a new conception of the possibilities of the space back of the house. We are learning that this space can be made as attractive and as useful as any room in the house. We are learning that it can be a place of beauty, a place of rest and recreation, a place where the family can gather for meals, for games, for quiet enjoyment.

The out-door living room is planned with the same care that is given to the planning of the indoor rooms. It has its floor, its walls, its ceiling, its furniture, its decorations. The floor may be of grass, of gravel, of brick, of concrete, or of flagstone. The walls may be of hedge, of fence, of trellis covered with vines, or of the walls of the house and garage. The ceiling is the sky, but it may be partially covered with an awning, a pergola, or the branches of trees. The furniture includes chairs, tables, benches, and perhaps a hammock or swing. The decorations are the flowers, shrubs, and trees that are planted to make the space beautiful.

The out-door living room serves many purposes. It is a place where meals can be served in pleasant weather. It is a place where the children can play safely. It is a place where the family can gather in the evening for quiet enjoyment. It is a place where friends can be entertained. It is a place where one can work in the garden or pursue a hobby.

The planning of the out-door living room requires careful thought. The space must be divided into areas for different purposes. There should be a dining area, a play area for the children, a quiet area for rest and reading, and perhaps a work area. Each area should be planned to serve its purpose well.

The dining area should be convenient to the kitchen. It should be level and should have a firm surface. It should be partially shaded and should be protected from the wind. A table and chairs suitable for outdoor use are essential.

The play area for the children should be where they can be easily supervised from the house. It should have a smooth, level surface and should be free from hazards. Sand boxes, swings, and other play equipment may be provided.

The quiet area should be in a secluded spot where one can rest and read without interruption. Comfortable chairs and perhaps a hammock should be provided. This area should be shaded and should be planted with flowers and shrubs to make it attractive.

The work area may include space for a vegetable garden, a flower garden, or a workshop. This area should be convenient to the house and should have good drainage.

The out-door living room should be planned as a unit. All parts should be related to each other and should contribute to the beauty and usefulness of the whole. Paths should connect the different areas and should be wide enough for comfortable walking. The planting should be planned to provide privacy, to frame attractive views, and to hide unsightly objects.

The out-door living room is not expensive to create. Much of the work can be done by the family. The materials needed are not costly. The results, however, are very satisfying. The family gains a new room, a room that can be used for many months of the year, a room that adds greatly to the enjoyment of the home.