[Vol44 | July 1957 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Fiction | Title: 435 The Bright Star — Chapter 5 Dorothy S. Romney]
THE  BRIGHT  STAR 
457 
lit  up  the  ceiling  and  the  corners 
of  the  little  room. 
CHE  took  off  her  sweater  and 
threw  it  on  a  nearbv  chest. 
Dear  Aunt  Em,  she  thought,  it's  like 
parting  with  a  friend  for  her  to  have 
to  give  up  one  of  her  treasures,  but 
she  ne\er  complains.  Well,  this 
will  be  the  last  one,  she  \owed. 
As  her  sweater  skimmed  over  the 
top  of  the  chest,  she  heard  a  small 
crash,  and  looked  down  to  see  one 
of  the  smaller  chests  on  its  side  on 
the  floor— the  one  Aunt  Em  had 
told  her  never  to  touch.  Its  contents 
tumbled  out  in  a  mustv  assortment 
of  trinkets.  Aunt  Em's  most  cher- 
ished childhood  mementoes,  Kathy 
knew.  Some  tiny  carved  animals, 
bits  of  Indian  beadwork,  an  old  doll 
with  a  china  head,  an  elaborate  pink 
satin  skirt,  and  staring  black  eves. 
Nothing  of  any  real  \'alue,  Kathy 
found  herself  thinking.  Then  she 
picked  up  a  small  parcel.  Carefully 
wrapped  in  yellowed  tissue  paper 
tied  with  ribbon,  its  diamond  en- 
crusted star  shape  plainly  visible 
through  the  thin  covering,  was  Aunt 
Em's  "bright  star,"  surely  the  one 
she  had  muttered  about  in  her  ill- 
ness. 
Kathy  sat  down  shakilv  on  the 
larger  chest,  the  points  of  the  star 
digging  into  her  palm,  as  she  pressed 
it  in  her  hand.  She  had  had  the  feel- 
ing from  the  first  time  her  aunt  had 
mentioned  it  that  the  bright  star 
concerned  her  own  destiny.  Had  she 
the  courage  to  unwrap  it? 
She  finally  bent  down  and  re- 
placed the  contents  of  the  chest. 
She  was  much  too  excited  to  dehe 
through  the  larger  chest  now.  The 
flames  had  died  down  to  a  glow 
again  as  Kathy  gathered  up  her  be- 
longings and  closed  the  door  of  the 
China  house.  Like  a  burning  em- 
ber from  the  tiny  fireplace  the  star 
lay  in  her  hand.  She  would  take  it 
straight  to  Aunt  Em. 
Her  aunt  was  sitting  in  the  kitch- 
en in  the  light  mobile  chair  Dr. 
Ransome  had  provided  for  her— for 
although  she  had  some  use  of  her 
limbs  now,  the  doctor  thought  it 
best  for  her  to  reserve  her  strength. 
A  bright  spot  showed  in  each  of  her 
cheeks,  and  her  eyes  sparkled— a 
sure  sign  that  she  was  excited. 
''Now,  Aunt  Em,"  Kathy  said 
immediately,  ''you  know  the  doctor 
said  positively  no  excitement,  so 
whatever  it  is  just.  ..." 
But  evidently  Aunt  Em  had  no 
intention  of  calming  down  until 
she  had  gotten  this  matter  off  her 
mind. 
"I've  been  calling  you,  Kathy," 
she  said.  "Marc  was  here!  He's 
gone  into  town!"  She  paused  for 
breath,  and  watched  Kathy  closely. 
"Yes,  yes,  I  saw  him  leave,"  the 
girl  replied.  "Is  that  what  you're 
so  excited  about?    Remember.  .  .  ." 
"You  don't  understand,"  Aunt 
Em  went  on.  "You've  got  to  stop 
him." 
"Stop  him  from  what,  darling?" 
But  she  wasn't  to  find  out  that 
evening,  for  at  that  moment  the 
bell  rang.  It  was  Marta,  and  she 
took  one  look  at  the  bright  spots 
in  Miss  Em's  cheeks,  and  wheeled 
her  into  the  bedroom,  after  giving 
her  a  glass  of  warm  milk.  She  put 
her  to  bed,  then  declared,  "Now 
you  go  straight  to  sleep,"  and  sat 
down  bv  the  bedside  to  see  that  her 
orders  were  obeyed. 
Aunt  Em  evidently  knew  Marta 
too  well  to  protest,  Kathy  found  her- 
self thinking. 
[To  be  continued)

FROM    THE    FIELD 
Hulda  ParJcer,  General  Secretary-Treasurer 
All  material  submitted  for  publication  in  this  department  should  be  sent  through 
stake  and  mission  Relief  Society  presidents.  See  regulations  governing  the  submittal 
of  material  for  ''Notes  From  the  Field"  in  the  Magazine  for  April  1950,  page  278,  and 
the  Handbook  of  Instructions,  page  123. 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  ACTIVITIES 
Photograph  submitted  by  Irene  T.  Erekson 
AUSTRALIAN  MISSION,  HURSTVILLE  BRANCH  (NEW  SOUTH  WALES) 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  HELPS  COMPLETE  PROJECT 
Left  to  right:  Adelaide  Adams,  Second  Counselor,  Hurstville  Branch  Relief  Society; 
Irene  T.  Erekson,  President,  Australian  Mission  Relief  Society;  Florence  Wardingly, 
President,  Hurstville  Branch  Relief  Society;  Pauline  McMaugh,  Secretary;  Judith  Bailey, 
First  Counselor. 
Sister  Erekson  reports  that  "the  recent  dedication  of  the  Hurstville  chapel  of 
Sydney,  New  South  Wales,  was  a  great  thrill  to  the  branch  Relief  Society,"  which 
helped  in  raising  funds  to  enlarge  and  beautify  the  chapel.  "Elder  Hugh  B.  Brown, 
Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  dedicated  the  chapel  during  his  recent  tour 
of  the  Australian  Mission.  .  .  .  The  sisters  raised  their  quota  with  banquets,  street 
stalls  .  .  .  dances,  concerts,  and  home  parties.  All  was  done  with  a  spirit  of  humility 
and  enthusiasm,  with  nothing  too  great  a  sacrifice. 
'The  Hurstville  chapel  has  the  first  Relief  Society  room  and  kitchen  in  New  South 
Wales,  with  up-to-date  facilities  for  the  work  of  the  sisters. 
"The  Relief  Societies  throughout  the  mission  are  in  'top  condition' — all  are  fol- 
lowing the  Magazine,  all  are  up-to-date  on  lessons,  and  there  are  capable  teachers  in 
every  department.  The  recent  March  birthday  programs  were  very  successful." 
Page  458

NOTES  FROM  THE  FIELD 
459 
Photograph  submitted  by  Evelyn  P.  Brown 
BURBANK  STAKE    (CALIFORNIA)    SINGING  MOTHERS  PRESENT 
MUSIC  FOR  STAKE  EVENTS 
Evelyn  P.  Brown,  President,  Burbank  Stake  Relief  Society,  writes:  "Many  weeks 
of  rehearsing  were  climaxed  for  the  Singing  Mothers  of  Burbank  Stake,  when  they 
sang  several  numbers  on  March  15th  at  the  Relief  Society  birthday  party,  held  this 
year  on  a  stake  basis. 
''The  same  group  had  performed  previously  at  stake  quarterly  conference  on 
February  3.  The  chorus  is  conducted  by  our  stake  Relief  Society  chorister  Beth  Soren- 
son,  front  row  at  extreme  right;  and  Jean  Wilcox,  the  accompanist  for  these  special 
events,  is  seated  next  to  Sister  Sorenson." 
Photograph  submitted  by  Gladys  R.  Winter 
SAN  FRANCISCO   STAKE    (CALIFORNIA)    SINGING   MOTHERS   PRESENT 
MUSIC  FOR  STAKE  QUARTERLY  CONFERENCE 
March  17,  1957 
Gladys  R.  Winter,  President,  San  Francisco  Stake  Relief  Society,  reports:  "The 
Singing  Mothers  were  honored  by  being  asked  to  present  the  music  for  San  Francisco 
Stake  Conference,  which  was  held  March  17,  the  anniversary  of  the  Relief  Society  .  .  .  ." 
The  chorister,  Nada  W.  Fluckiger,  is  in  the  second  row  at  the  extreme  right.  In 
the  first  row  in  front  of  her  is  Mabel  M.  George,  the  organist.  Sister  Winter  is  in  the 
second  row,  fifth  from  the  right;  and  Vera  M.  Murray,  First  Counselor,  is  in  the  first 
row,  second  from  the  right.