[Vol44 | July 1957 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: The | Author: Nibley]
I Courtesy South African Railways Submitted by Nora C. Duncan JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA She South African Mission Preston R. Nibley Assistant Church Historian A! A special missionary conference, held in Salt Lake City on August 28, 1852, under the direction of President Bigham Young, Elders Jesse Haven, Leonard I. Smith, and Wilham H. Walker were called to open a mission for the Church in South Afmca. 'These faithful brethren made their way to their field of labor in poverty and distress, a journey which consumed more than six months time, before they reached Cape 'Town on April 19, 1853. Elder Haven was designated as the mission president. As soon as they began to distribute their literature and hold meetings they met with opposition. However, a friend, Nicholas Paul, of Mowbray, a suburb of Cape Town, opened his house to them and offered them protection. Meetings were held in this home and the first convert, Henry Stringer, was baptized on June 15, 1853, by Elder Smith. Other baptisms followed, and on August 15, 1853, the first branch of the Church in South Africa was organized at Mowbray. The work continued, and at a conference held at Port Elizabeth on August 13, 1855, it was reported that there were six branches of the Church in the South African Mission with a total membership of 126. On November 27, 1855, Elders Walker and Smith began their return journey to Utah, "accompanied by fifteen emigrating saints."" In December Page 424 THE SOUTH AFRICAN MISSION 425 Elder Haven left Cape Town for America, and the work was left in the charge of local brethren. As many of the Saints had emigrated to Utah, and as the Civil War was being fought in the United States, the South African Mission was closed in the 1860's. Missionaries were not sent there again until 1903, when Elders Warren H. Lyon, William R. Smith, Thomas L. Griffiths, and George A. Simpkins were called to reopen the mission. The work has continued since that time. On March 31, 1957, there were 2,363 members of the Church in the South African Mission, located in seventeen branches. Glen G. Fisher is the mission president. Sixteen Relief Society organizations, with 249 members, were reported in December 1956. Holly Wood Fisher presides over the South African Mission Relief Society. Note: The cover for this Magazine, 'Victoria Falls, Rhodesia, Africa,"' was submitted by Nora C. Duncan, former president of the South African Mission Relief Society. See also "Recipes From the South African Mission," page 445. \ i, Yi) Un) Courtesy South African Railways Submitted by Nora C. Duncan CAMPS BAY, CAPE TOWN, AFRICA Holly Part I Margaret S. Hardy HE red hills had never been so hot, nor the sun so cruel. Holly's legs moved like stilts over the rocky path that led to the cabin in the hollow below. Heat waves rising from the scorched earth fanned her face as though a grass fire burned at her feet. The sharp, spiny fingers of a mesquite bush clung to her skirts and she tugged to free them. "Grabbing thorns," she cried as she tried to work them loose. "Oh, what's the use to spare this old thing?" A sudden pull and the bush snapped back triumphant, holding a wool piece of faded red. The goal was in sight. A few more steps—then a step from the path and shade; a resting place worn smooth from use before. She settled herself down, her back against the curve of the gnarled pine trunk and closed her eyes against the glare, then opened them again. Her home was in view from where she sat, and Jesse somewhere near—the garden by the stream's edge burned as red as the earth in which it grew. How they had struggled to save it when the creek began to dry, coaxing the last trickle of water into pans. But the withering Utah sun had won the battle, with even the springs that fed the tiny reservoir above, threatening to dry. Water. That was what she wanted. Everyone here was thirsty all the time it seemed. A Mormon bride of seventeen, she had come to this land of promise, Page 426 leaving family and loved ones far behind. She and Jim would build a home here in the wilderness— their children would inherit it, and their roots would go down strong and deep. A log cabin was their home now, a stone house to come later, a story and a half, and it would tower there above the cedars. Holly braced one hand on the ground beside her, the other she laid on the rock cleft at her side and pulled herself to her feet. 'The path grew steeper, with each stone trying to roll when she stepped on it. 'Three weeks by her count—could be only two, and she would be lithe again and never care a fig for the stones in her path. But she would never attempt the trail again in this condition. Never. July into August, and the promise of more glimmering sun continued unbroken, relentless heat. Food bins nearby empty and crops shriveling back into the ground brought the farmers to their knees and the Indians to their rain dances, praying for the miracle that would save them —rain. This August day started as every day that summer had started; with Jesse up and out searching the heavens, determined that the barren sky should yield its share to life. Holly watched the morning ritual from the open doorway, hoping with him, laughing when he wet a finger and held it up to catch a hoped-for breeze. He stood, a giant in her eyes, strong and noble, a man to HOLLY lean on, and willing. She loved everything about him. Everything. As she watched this morning, a quickening of his movements told her something stirred. Again and yet again, his hand went up before him. Suddenly he turned and bounded toward her. "Today we'll have rain, Holly love," burst from his lips. "And maybe more." Holly whispered it, for even now the twinge grew faintly stronger. HE rain came as Jesse had said; in large, separate drops, making little mounds where the dust pufted up as it fell. A gentle rain it was, feeling its way to the thirsty earth. 'They went outside and let the huge drops splash on their upturned faces in childish delight. "It will cool you down," Jesse said, "then let me go for Stacy." Of a sudden the rain stopped as they stood there. The trees stopped their quivering and the darkening sky turned darker still. Hushed, dead silence hung from the leaden sky holding all in its grasp. Then, like giant cymbals clashing together, a thunderclap crashed down over the hills, bringing torrents of water sweeping down from the sky. Holly threw her hands over her ears, crying out her terror, with Jesse pulling to get her to the cabin. A fire, stirred up from dying embers, to dry her dripping hair; a rocking chair; and Jesse at the window, the storm his interest—Holly's thoughts on Stacy, wishing she were here. But, no bother. It took days at times, so she had been told; and time for supper, rain or not. Still 427 "Jesse? How can Stacy come in this storm?" "Now, Holly love." He turned at hearing Stacy's name. "The storm won't last for long. It is coming all at once and will end as it started." "T can wait, Jesse. It will be a while yet. In the morning maybe— and it's suppertime." The sound of horse's hooves sloshing near the window made Jesse jump from the table to pull open the door. An excited voice calling out reached Holly's ears. "There's been a cloudburst The dam's washing away. We _ need men." Jesse wheeled around to look askance from Holly's startled face. "They need you. I need you, too. Oh, Jesse. The dam—our house—we're right in the path." Jesse's hands gripped her shoulders. "Look at me, Holly. What shall Ido? A broken dam will flood the settlement below. Our house will go, too. Say it, Holly. If you need me, I'll stay. Is it time?" "How do I know if it's time? I've never had " She stopped and closed her eyes, found control of her rising voice. "Go, Jesse. But, hurry back. And get word to Stacy if you can." FE, was gone—vanished into the downpour of the deepening night, and Holly was alone. She leaned against the closed door to steady herself, for her body went weak with fear and all strength was gone. Rain! How badly they had wanted it, and now it came and threatened to destroy everything— even herself, perhaps, if Stacy didn't 428 come. Across the cabin she swayed and knelt down by the bed, her head bowed to her hands, and prayed— for Jesse and the men—and for the dam—and for herself and her babe soon to be born—and for Stacy. Her terror lifted somewhat and her strength came slowly back so that she busied herself with whatever she could find to do. But each hour became a night, and morning a thing never to come. Water ran a steady stream across the cabin floor. 'The bottom of her nightdress clung like ice sheets around her legs as she walked and rocked, walked and _ rocked, until she climbed feebly into bed, only to pull herself back out again. The cookstove She had forgotten the fire in the cookstove. That would warm her.