[Vol44 | July 1957 | Sequence: 11 | Category: General Feature | Title: Notes | Author: Parker]
Notes TO THE FIELD Buying Sexthooks for Relicf Society oLessons ROM inquiries which come to the general board it would seem that some Relief Society officers and class leaders are not acquainted with the recommended procedure for acquiring necessary textbooks for lessons. The education counselor in both the stake and the ward should present to the president of the respective organizations, a list of the textbooks which will be needed to teach the Relief Society lessons during the coming season. She should then be authorized to purchase these books with funds from the Relief Society general fund. 'The education counselors should see that the name of the Relief Society organization is written in each book before giving it to the respective stake or ward class leader for her use. At the end of the course the education counselor is responsible for collecting the books and placing them in the Relief Society library. Where a teacher wishes to purchase her own textbook in order to be able to mark it and keep it after the conclusion of the course, it is recommended that the Relief Society organization should also purchase a textbook: 1. In order that the book may become a part of the Relief Society library; 2. To be available for use by those given special assignments; 3. Because a change of teachers might be necessary during the course, and at that time it might be impossible for the Relief Society organization to purchase a copy of the desired textbook. Education counselors are urged to safeguard Relief Society libraries and to be alert to opportunities of adding to them gifts of Church and other worthwhile books. -_——- Serenity Dora Toone Brough I saw serenity today in such Abundance, and I lingered for awhile— A woman's countenance with just a touch Of tenderness that blended with a smile; Her aged face showed wisdom and a ray Of brightness beamed, much like refiner's gold In rare design, for she had found each day A lasting graciousness while growing old. Life's twilight calm had brought tranquility, And love of God gave her serenity. Page 444 Recipes trom the South African ITlission Submitted by Nora C. Duncan CHUTNEY 1 Ib. Dried apricots 4 c. White vinegar 1 Ib. Onions 10 chilies or 1 lb. Raisins I 3 tbsp. Cayenne pepper 2 c. Sugar (amount of pepper may be decreased 2 oz. Salt if desired ) Leave apricots in vinegar overnight. The next day mince all ingredients. Add sugar and mix well and then bottle. Do not cook. Serve as a condiment with beef curry or chicken curry and rice, but can be served with any kind of meat. PickLEeD F isu 3 Ibs. Fish (salmon or halibut) " tsp. Salt "2 ¢. Water % tsp. Pepper Cut the fish into half-inch thick slices, season with salt and pepper. Arrange carefully in a large baking pan and then pour in the water and bake in a hot oven, 400 degrees, for fifteen minutes or until tender. In the meantime, prepare the curry sauce as follows: Curry Sauce: 3 large onions 3 tbsp. Sugar 2 Cc. Vinegar 2 tbsp. Curry powder 1% c. Water 2 tbsp. Flour or corn flour (corn meal) Peel the onions and cut into fairly thick rings. Put into the saucepan and add the water. Then bring the onions to the boiling point and allow them to cook for two or three minutes, but not until soft. Mix together in a bowl the dry ingredients and add the vinegar. Then stir mixture into the onions and water. Cook until smooth, for a minute or two. Arrange the fish carefully in a glass dish into which pour first a layer of the curry sauce and then a layer of fish. Cover the layer of fish with the remaining curry sauce. Leave for a day or two before serving. It will keep indefinitely in a refrigerator or cool place. BoOBOTEE 1 lb. Beef (raw or cooked) 6- 8 almonds 1 onion 1 tsp. Salt 1 tbsp. Curry powder 1 tbsp. Lemon juice or vinegar 1 tbsp. Chutney 1 large slice of bread 1 88 Put the meat through a food chopper, together with the onion. Add the curry powder, chutney, coarsely chopped almonds, salt, and vinegar or lemon juice, together with bread soaked in cold water then squeezed dry. Break in one egg, then mix well together. Put into a pie pan and place on top shelf in a hot oven (400 degrees) for about fifteen minutes or until a crust has formed. Raw meat will produce a better flavored Bobotee than cooked meat. Mutton for this dish is superior to beef. (Instead of chutney, apricot jam may be used, or sugar, and should almonds not be available, they may be omitted.) Page 445 446 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1957 Custard for Bobotee: 2 eggs 1 tbsp. Corn flour (corn meal) 1 tsp. Sugar 1% c. Boiling milk 1 tsp. Curry powder 2 «tbsp. Butter While the pie shell (Bobotee) is baking prepare the custard filling. Break the eggs into a bowl, add the sugar, curry powder, and corn flour diluted with a little cold water. Mix well. Gradually pour in the boiling milk. Return to saucepan over the fire and stir until custard mixture just commences to thicken, then remove and pour on top of hot Bobotee. Put in a 250 to 300 degree oven and bake thirty minutes or until a nice golden brown. SWARTBEK Boontyies (BEAN) Curry 1 c. Small lima beans 2 Ibs. Beef or mutton pinch of soda salt and pepper to taste 2 onions 2 tbsp. Curry powder 2 tbsp. Drippings (fat) 1 tbsp. Flour or meal 12 tsp. Sugar lemon juice Soak the beans overnight in cold water, and the following day put over the fire, together with a pinch of bicarbonate of soda. Cook gently until slightly tender. Cut up the onions fine, and cook to a nice golden brown in the drippings (fat). Add stewing beef or mutton cut into small pieces and sprinkled with salt and pepper. Then cook gently for about an hour, without adding any water, as the meat will draw its own juice. Blend together the curry powder, flour or meal, and sugar. Stir into the meat and allow to cook for a few minutes. Then add the beans, together with water in which they are cooked. Cook gently until meat and beans are quite tender and the curry nicely browned. Season well with salt and pepper and a little lemon juice. Serve with rice. The beans used for this curry are small white beans with a black center. They have a characteristic flavor and are popular in Cape Town. But, if they are not available, small lima beans may be used. KOESISTERS 2 c. Flour 1 tbsp. Baking powder 2 tbsp. Butter pinch of salt 1 egg % c. Milk (or less) Sift the dry ingredients into a bowl and then cream in the butter. Add the milk to the well-beaten egg, and then add to flour mixture to make a soft dough. Roll out to about one-fourth inch thick. Cut with cutter or twist. Fry in hot oil to golden brown and dip at once into cold syrup. Syrup: 2% c. Sugar ¥%, tsp. Tartaric acid 1 c. Water 1 piece of cinnamon Boil the sugar and water for ten minutes, then add the tartaric acid and cinnamon. This syrup will keep for months in an airtight tin. HoNEYCOMB CREAM 2 c. Milk 1% tbsp. Gelatine 3 eggs 4 tbsp. Cold: water 4 tbsp. Sugar pinch of salt 1 tsp. Vanilla RECIPES FROM THE SOUTH AFRICAN MISSION 447 Bring milk to boiling point. Then pour onto the beaten yolks of the eggs and sugar. Return to the saucepan and add the gelatine soaked in cold water, and bring again to boiling point. 'Then remove at once and add vanilla and a pinch of salt. Cool slightly, then pour onto the stiffly beaten egg whites. When mixture comes to the boil, curdling will commence, and eggs will separate from the milk and sink to the bottom. The egg whites, being lighter, will rise to the top, and so when the mould is turned out there will be a layer of clear jelly at the top, next a layer of cream, and lastly a frothy layer. Serve with fresh or canned fruit and top with a thin custard or vanilla pudding. Mik Tart Filling: 1 tbsp. Flour 4 tbsp. Brown sugar 1% tbsp. Corn flour (corn meal) (or sweeten to taste) 2 eggs 2 tbsp. Ground almonds 2 c. Milk 4 sticks bark cinnamon 2 tbsp. Butter Pour milk into a saucepan, add cinnamon, and bring to boiling point. Mix the flour and sugar, add a little cold milk, and mix to a smooth paste. Pour into the boiling milk and cook for a few minutes. Remove from the stove and add the butter. Allow to cool off and add the wellbeaten egg yolks. Mix well. Then add stiffly beaten egg whites. If not sweet enough add more sugar and stir in ground almonds. (Almonds may be omitted.) Line plates with flaky pastry. Pour in the mixture and bake in hot oven of about 400 degrees, When baked, sift sugar and ground cinnamon (1 tsp. Each mixed) over the top. This is better when served warm. YELLOW RICE 1 ¢. Tice % tsp. Salt %"% c. Seeded raisins 1 tbsp. Butter 2 c. Water 1 tsp. Turmeric 1 c. Milk 1 tbsp. Brown or white sugar Wash the rice and add the other ingredients. Cook on low heat until the rice is well bulged with the consumed moisture. 'Then add the sugar. Leave twenty minutes longer. (Raisins may be omitted.) Yellow rice is always served with roast potatoes, roast meat, and vegetables. O}-<- Together Shey Walk Maude Rubin I watched two doves.... They've raised their brood— Now, two alone, They walk along my garden path— A path of stone. No buds unfurl; the yellow leaves Say summer's done But see them walk along together In the sun! She Long and Short of larriage THs is a picture of an idea—and an ideal. It is a picture of two fine young newlyweds—a tall, handsome, wholesome young bridegroom and a sweet but not-so-tall young bride. They have stars in their eyes—stars of eternal hope and happiness. But the artist intended to suggest to us far more than this. He has here painted the dream of every normal, healthy young man and young woman—a dream filled with a honeymoon, a happy home, laughing, loving children, faith, trust, honor, achievement—all these and a never-ending love and life together. Page 448 THE LONG AND SHORT OF MARRIAGE 449 Ask any starry-eyed newly-wedded couple how long they want their marriage to last, and the answer will come easily: "Forever" Forever? Do they really mean forever? Not to end in the divorce court as thousands of American marriages now do? Marriage till death? Yes, that long and longer—for even then separation forever would be tragedy. Theirs is the hope of eternal living and learning and loving together— an ideal—an eternal "togetherness'"' of parents and children in the old and hallowed patriarchal pattern, consecrated and enriched by the blessings of a loving and eternal Father in heaven so long as love and faith and fidelity shall endure. There you have it: the long and the short of marriage. Which will you choose? BE HONEST WITH YOURSELF America, Cradle of Liberty Elsie Matthews dear to the heart of everyone of us. It has been offered down through the stream of time as a reward for righteous living. When Lehi and his family came to America some six hundred years before Christ, the Lord told him that this was a choice land, choice above all other lands, and it should be a land of liberty to him and his descendants' for evermore if they would live righteous lives. 'The Lord said he had kept this land from the knowledge of other nations for a wise purpose. But the Nephites forgot the wonderful promises of the Lord and, although there were many very righteous people among them, as a whole, they became very wicked, and as the centuries passed, Jacob said they were more wicked than the Lamanites, and after the Nephite prophets pleaded with them for hundreds of years it seemed that I IBERTY is something very their cup of iniquity was full, and the Lord allowed them to be swept completely off the land that would have been theirs for evermore had they repented. 'There was only one man left—that great Nephite prophet, Moroni. He was hiding in the hills,