[Vol44 | July 1957 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Fiction | Title: Ice | Author: Woolsey]
[Ice Cream for the "Fourth" Maryhale Woolsey]

How badly they had wanted it, and now it came and threatened to destroy everything— even herself, perhaps, if Stacy didn't 428 come. Across the cabin she swayed and knelt down by the bed, her head bowed to her hands, and prayed— for Jesse and the men—and for the dam—and for herself and her babe soon to be born—and for Stacy. Her terror lifted somewhat and her strength came slowly back so that she busied herself with whatever she could find to do. But each hour became a night, and morning a thing never to come. Water ran a steady stream across the cabin floor. 'The bottom of her nightdress clung like ice sheets around her legs as she walked and rocked, walked and _ rocked, until she climbed feebly into bed, only to pull herself back out again. The cookstove She had forgotten the fire in the cookstove. That would warm her. Split logs laid on embers burst into flame, and she cried out, half laughing, half crying at sight of the dancing blaze. Almost immediately the room became so hot she dripped with perspiration. Slowly she sank into the rocker and raised her feet to the oven, hot and cold at the same time. And then the candle went out. It was that that made her do it. Panic took her senses and she could not find another candle. The creek roared louder in the dark, a terrifying enemy. 'The loneliness became unbearable, and she put a coat over her shoulders and went out into the storm. The trail over the hill seemed not so far with Stacy waiting at the other end. 'The thunder seemed to be farther in the distance, and the hardest of the pelting rain had ended. Yet, how could a trail so well remembered in the daytime RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1957 have to be felt for now? Hands found familiar places; rocks which days before had threatened to unfoot her were friends to hold her feet against the slippery clay. It was two steps up and a slide back— but progress nonetheless, with each step a prayer that she would find her way in time. Holly reached the rock where last she had sat and vowed not to pass the rocky trail soon again. She stopped and squeezed the water from her sodden hair. 'The crest of the hill was ahead, then the down path and not far to go. Sucking clay pulled at her shoes, so sodden and heavy she could no longer pick them up one before the other; so she pulled her feet free and left the only shoes she owned buried in the mud on the trail. Now she prayed aloud in gasping breath as she worked her way up the hill; then she called for Jesse until she felt herself go suddenly warm and pleasant with a comforting weakness where pain had been. This is how people die, she thought. This is where they'll find me—lying here on the muddy trail. The last ounce of strength ebbed from her body. 'There was only the warmth and the weakness and the sound of her own voice calling — Jesse — far away as in a dream. A HEN Holly opened her eyes it was daylight, and she was lying in a bed. She snapped her eyes shut again. Her hands explored the rough woolen quilt. She felt so good, the air smelled so clean— and new—like freshly washed clothes not yet worn. She opened her eyes HOLLY again. A ribbon of water trickled down the wall near the foot of the bed. She strained to hear something forgotten for the love of this sweet moment. Rain! Jesse! The horrible, slippery trail. She popped up to a sitting position and looked around her. "Stacy!" A cry, this, from a throat hoarse with crying. "Stacy! How did I get here? Where's Jesse?" "No need to cry out now, Holly, nor to fret. It's all over—and don't kick up the end of the bed. You'll send your son a flying." Jesse stood, when he came, in the doorway, a man grown older in a night. He stood with shoulders stooped a little, the bold stance of his legs gone, as he paused, shaking the water from his hair, brushing down his trousers with one hand. In the other he held a silty cloth behind him. Holly tried for a smile, but brought a flood of tears instead that had Jesse on his knees by the bed. "It is all over now, Holly love," he exclaimed, "and you a mother " His head burrowed on her chest, his voice came muffled. "I 429 never should have left you. Not ever." He raised his head and found Holly's hand warm in his. "What fortune I found you when I did. Your nightdress white against the blackened trail stopped the horse from trampling you where you lay." "I thought I would die on the trail. I did for truth. What do you have in your hand, Jesse?" "Your bonnet. It was hanging on a bush near where the cabin door had been tossed there by the water." "And everything is gone?" "Everything." "And those below?" "Washed out some. Not much left for the sun or the crickets or for anyone else. But don't you worry, Holly love, the Lord won't see us starve." "Oh, Jesse! Your love is true, and mine as strong as yours." And on that day Holly started a diary: August 17, 1854 So much has come to us this day. Our home is gone, the plantings washed away —and I have had a baby. (To be concluded) -_<- Lupine and Larkspur Ivy Houtz Woolley Hot fingers of the sun stay not their will to rise And bloom above the sand, blue magic in their eyes. Hot fingers of the wind touch petals, tenderly, Then leave each silken flower to glow where none can see. Blue gypsies of the waste, with stardust on their lips— Winged nomads of the plains find nectar in deep sips. In azure velvet dress, they stand in clusters tall, The desert urges them to blossom at her call. Blue gypsies of the waste, small fragments of the sky, Come bringing subtle charm where all is drab and dry. Lets Visit a Desert Botanical Garden Marijane Morris ountain-born, island born, or from the desert country, you will find yourself completely fascinated when you begin the nature walk in the Desert Botanical Garden of Arizona at 'Tempe. This garden (on Highway 89) is not marked with road advertising. There are only a simple sign and stone entrance posts proclaiming what it is, and marking the way into an enchanted land of thousands of desert plants in a single setting. In this world plants grow erect, climb, creep, or are just small growths in the ground. 'Their very grotesqueness will rouse your admiration and respect. The Desert Botanical Garden is operated by the Arizona Cactus and Native Flora Society, a non-profit, educational organization supported, in part, by an endowment from the late Gertrude Divine Webster, but, principally, by membership and donations. It costs the visitor nothing to see these plants in a setting produced by many hours of planning, vision, love, and dedication. All that could be required of anyone is a camera permit and that the tourist stay on the black-topped walks and away from the cacti. (There are seeds that might be killed and plants too small to be seen.) For a small amount, the visitor may purchase a bulletin giving detailed information about each species. 'The different kinds of cacti and other desert plants are numbered to correspond with the numbers in the pamphlet. You may be surprised to find that cacti are found almost exclusively Page 430 in the New World. There are something like one hundred genera and 1,800 species, wild and cultivated. Here in the Desert Botanical Garden, there are 8,000 to 9,000 species of desert plants, of which about 1,300 are cacti. Once we let a cactus or any desert plant "stick us," we are forever awed by this vegetation that survives in an area of little rainfall, a high percentage of sunshine, and high temperatures. Only the most heroic of plants can prosper in a desert. The plants now on our deserts seem even more remarkable when we learn that they are relics of a heavy plant population that once occupied the area when rainfall was greater. 'These survivors gradually built up resistance to drought conditions as the area became increasingly dry. Many of us know by sight the stately Saguaro (so-wha'ro). This cactus is Arizona's state flower and the best example of the desert's living reservoir. The pronounced ribs of this plant expand and contract in accordion fashion to store and use water. 'The one in the Botanical Garden is approximately 180 years old. The Saguaro produces a waxy, showy flower, followed by red, juicy fruits of delicious flavor, and, if you have ever wondered at holes found in their stems, they are produced by the Gila woodpecker. 'This bird finds the Saguaro a wonderful place to nest. 'The Saguaro is a sensitive but stubborn plant. Whenever it is disturbed either by wind DESERT BOTANICAL GARDEN es: W. Taylor M Sp arshall 431 ADMINISTRATION BUILDING, DESERT BOTANICAL GARDEN TEMPE, ARIZONA or earth movement, it is likely to throw out another branch. Saguaro wood can be fashioned into furniture, lamps, can be used in house construction, and in numerous other ways. It doesn't take long to recognize the chollas (chaw-ya), either, and there are thousands of other curious and beautiful varieties found in the Desert. Botanical Garden. Among these are the so-called "jumping chollas." 'These cacti are supposed to jump at unwary visitors to the desert. A? We continue through the Desert Botanical Garden, we find at stake number six, a cactus called the "Old Man of the Desert." Here is truly an oddity. 'The spines have a hair-like appearance and cover the tall, pole-shaped cactus as does an old man's beard. Their spines look soft, but how deceiving! 'This plant is young and is expected to attain a height of thirty feet or more. Before you finish your walk, you may have a favorite cactus picked out. Maybe it will be the creeping plant called the caterpillar cactus. This one is found only on the Magdalena Plains of Baja, Callifornia, outside of cultivated gardens. One wonders where its roots are, as its branches crisscross over each other. If we consult our pamphlet, we read that its roots form the portion of the stem against the ground and that it grows forward at the rate of about five inches a year, dying off at the back at the same rate. In its native soil it forms dense colonies. It is correctly named; it looks like a caterpillar on the crawl. But unlike the caterpillars we know, its 432 Photographs by Josef Muench NIGHT-BLOOMING CEREUS dagger-like spines can penetrate the heaviest' of boots. As we follow along the trail, we discover the organ-pipe cactus, which has a night-blooming flower and a delicious fruit. Quite possibly, we may look at the next plant and exclaim: "A Saguaro" But it isn't. It resembles its relative, the Saguaro, and meets the Arizona cactus just south of the border, but from there on it belongs to Baja, California, and Sonora, Mexico. 'Technically it is called Pachycereus pringlel. However, once we have seen the knobby surface of this totem-pole cactus we will never forget it. It lacks the pronounced ribs of most cacti and has a bumpy surface much like an Indian totem pole. As this garden contains not only cacti, but desert plants of all kinds, you will discover that the century plant and the Joshua tree, and many other plants in this garden are not true cacti. 'The century plant is a curious thing, which spends its entire life storing food and water in its leaves and then sends up a flower YUCCA BLOSSOMS (Desert Lily ) Family Liliaceae RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1957 PRICKLY PEAR Opuntia Englmannii stalk, five to thirty-five feet into the air. 'This stalk shoots upward at the almost unbelievable rate of six to sixteen inches a day. Its lifetime is over after it produces one crop of flowers and the accompanying fruits. This plant belongs to the Amaryllis family. The Joshua tree is a member of the lily family. It is regarded as the oldest living thing on the desert! Some are estimated to be 1,000 years old. Yucca, the "Spanish Bayonet," with its radiant creamy blossoms, also belongs to the lily family and adorns the deserts throughout the Southwest. 'The prickly pear is said to be the only other desert plant whose range is more widespread. Most of us recognize the Ocotillo (ok-o-te-yo) or scarlet torch, also not a cactus. For much of the year the Ocotillo presents leafless, spiny wand-like stems up to twelve feet long, all arising from the common base. When it rains these stems leaf out with small groups of leaves at the base of each spine. 'Then, in a few days, the scarlet, tubular DESERT BOTANICAL GARDEN flowers grow from the apex of each stem, and as the flowers open the leaves fall off. At the next rainfall the process starts all over again. S every story or event must have a high interest at one point, so does our nature walk through the Desert Botanical Garden. It is the aluminum lath house we reach about half way through our walk. 'There is enough lath in this desert shelter to reach to the heart of Phoenix, westward some eight miles. Hundreds of cacti and desert plants are housed here, the ones that cannot take the full sun or the winter temperatures or which must have humidity. 'The soil is especially prepared and the plants are in raised beds. They thrive in this soil and atmosphere. (The soil consists of silt, sharp sand, and fertilizer. ) In this lath house are some of the garden's most unusual plants.

'There is a cactus, Pereskia, a plant from the West Indies which represents the first transition from roses to cacti. 'There is the plant with small blood-red blooms called "crown of Photographs by Josef tencn I RAINBOW CACTUS Echinocereus rigidissimus HEDGEHOG CACTUS Echinocereus Arizonicus 433 thorns," which belongs to the Poinsettia family, and the "firecracker" species of cacti from South America. This type has red day flowers that resemble firecrackers in size, shape, and color. 'There is a swamp cactus that requires so much water during hot weather that an overhead sprinkler operates day and night to stimulate natural environment. In a glass-topped display case, are species of the fig-marigolds from South Africa, which closely resemble the pebbles among which they grow. The lath house shelters desert species of the pineapple family, trees and shrubs of the American and African deserts, including two elephantwood trees and a coral tree, as well as crested forms of cacti. This cresting is a breakdown of cell structure probably caused by radio-activity of the soil in which they were growing when they were found. There is a crested Saguaro cactus, with a fan-shaped top, at the garden entrance. Outside, and on the path again, one is quite unexpectedly in a small clearing. It is an outdoor living SUN CEREUS Heliocereus speciosus 434 room which in time, will be completely shaded by umbrella trees. The desert quietness is persuasive here and tends to relax and invigorate as one sits a few precious moments. Many curious and beautiful varieties of cacti are prized as hothouse plants, among them the night-blooming cereus. <A_ perfect way to end our nature walk is to visit the "night-blooming patio," by going through the administration building and out the south door. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1957 Here, we will find the nightingales of the cacti. They "sing" with their lovely night beauty, but are gone when the sun lights the desert. Last year some 120,000 visitors viewed these desert plants. 'The garden is open to the public October ist to May ist daily, except Mondays, from 10 A. M. To 5 P. M. In May, June, and September it is open only on Saturday and Sunday from 1 P. M. To 6 p. M. And is closed during July and August.