[Vol44 | July 1957 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Lesson | Title: 471 Literature: William Shakespeare, Dramatist Briant S. Jacobs]
JLiterature  —  Shakespeare  in  Our  Lives 
Lesson   9— William   Shakespeare,   Dramatist 
Elder  Brhnt  S.  Jacobs 
Text:  Shakespeare  Major  Phys  and  the  Sonnets,  by  G.  B.  Harrison, 
Harcourt,  Brace  &  Company,  1948 
For  Tuesday,  October  15,  1957 
Objective:  To  become  more  aware  of  Shakespeare's  genius  in  integrating  within  the 
art-form  of  drama  the  great  truths  and  eternal  conflicts  within  all  mankind. 
Knock  there,  and  ask  your  heart  what  it  doth  know 
That's  hke  my  brother's  fault. 
(Measure  for  Measure,  II. 2.  137-138). 
r\URING  our  first  year  with 
Shakespeare,  we  studied  his 
greatness.  We  found  out  how 
much  he  meant  to  us  already,  as 
we  identified  long-known  expres- 
sions as  having  been  written  by 
Shakespeare.  In  separate  lessons 
we   considered  his   rare   quahty  of 
evoking  sensory  and  music-magic  in 
his  poetry,  his  beliefs  and  conflicts 
as  he  depicted  the  Elizabethan  world 
about  him,  and  his  ability  to  see 
truth  so  truly  that  always  he  de- 
picted good  or  evil  as  such.  As  each 
phase  of  his  genius  was  thus  treated 
separately,  each  of  his  individual  ex-

474 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JULY  1957 
cellences  within  itself  proved  to  be 
a  rewarding  introductory  approach 
to  our  greatest  writer  in  Enghsh. 
In  last  year's  introductory  lessons 
Shakespeare  was  thus  studied  one 
phase  at  a  time  because  such  an  ap- 
proach seemed  the  best  preparation 
for  a  discussion  of  his  individual 
plays.  Yet,  it  is  in  the  plays,  not 
in  any  part  of  Shakespeare,  that  our 
interest  lies,  and  our  purpose  in 
studying  each  play  is  three-fold:  we 
strive  to  realize  ( i )  how  near  us 
Shakespeare  lives  in  our  daily  lives; 
( 2 )  how  much  our  awareness  of  the 
human  and  natural  worlds  is  quick- 
ened through  knowing  him;  and  ( 3 ) 
how  deeply  indebted  we  are  to  him 
for  his  words  of  universal  truth  and 
beauty. 
Now  it  is  time  for  us  to  acknow- 
ledge the  quality  which  climaxes 
and  unites  the  separate  parts  of 
Shakespeare's  genius  into  the  co- 
hesive oneness  we  know  each  of  his 
plays  to  be.  That  quality  is  his  dra- 
matic power.  Above  all  else  Shake- 
speare was  a  dramatist,  a  maker  of 
plays  for  the  Elizabethan  theater.  It 
was  as  a  playwright,  not  as  a  poet  or 
a  philosopher,  that  young  Shake- 
speare hoped  to  achieve  identity  and 
success.  And,  having  achieved  this 
success  of  which  he  dreamed— both 
in  the  judgment  of  his  contemp- 
oraries and  of  the  centuries  follow- 
ing —  it  is  pre-eminently  as  the 
dramatist  that  he  marshalled  to- 
gether all  his  various  artistic  powers. 
Within  the  theater,  his  chosen  art- 
form,  he  combined  his  talents  into 
the  harmonious  oneness  which  every 
great  dramatist  must  possess  before 
he  can  create  great  living  characters. 
And  Shakespeare's  characters  are 
greatest  of  all. 
The  Elizabethan  Achievement 
In  medieval  England,  when  the 
Catholic  Church  was  the  church, 
and  the  church  was  all,  the  choirs 
told  stories  from  the  Bible  in  music, 
the  most  popular  and  elaborate,  of 
course,  being  the  depiction  of  the 
resurrection  and  the  Easter  themes. 
One  voice  or  phone  within  the  choir 
would  sing  a  theme  or  cadence;  this 
was  then  repeated  by  another  group 
of  voices  seated  opposite  the  first 
singers,  and  was  called  the  antiphon. 
Once  individual  priests  began  per- 
sonifying the  three  Marys  and  the 
angels  visiting  them  at  Christ's 
tomb,  this  individual  singing  proved 
spectacularly  successful,  and  the 
foundations  of  the  English  theater 
were  laid. 
About  1000  A.D  .  these  perform- 
ances became  so  elaborate  that  they 
were  moved  outside  the  churches 
where  the  yeoman  peasantry  enjoyed 
them  even  more,  especially  since 
they  were  being  sung  in  English 
rather  than  in  Latin  which  only  the 
educated  few  could  understand. 
Then  the  mayors  and  town  councils 
took  them  over,  so  successful  were 
they,  and  the  various  guilds  or  work- 
ingmen's  organizations  sponsored 
them  as  the  great  entertainment 
spectacles  of  the  entire  year.  Series 
or  cycles  of  plays  extending  over 
three  or  four  entire  days  were  pre- 
sented annually  in  certain  villages, 
favorite  themes  being  the  dramatic 
representation  of  the  plan  of  salva- 
tion, or  the  lives  and  miracles  of 
various  saints.  When  around  1350- 
1400  vigorous  folk  and  comic  ele- 
ments began  creeping  in,  the  re- 
ligious elements  gradually  became 
weaker  and  the  imaginative,  folksy, 
melodramatic,  but,  most  of  all,  zest-

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
475 
ful  roots  of  Elizabethan  drama  were 
laid  in  place  and  began  to  grow. 
It  is  to  be  credited  to  the  eternal 
glory  of  the  Elizabethan  playwrights 
that  they  perfected  the  first  "mod- 
ern" stage  and  first  wrote  ''modern" 
plays.  And,  as  so  often  happens, 
this  first  period  in  the  modern  the- 
ater still  remains  the  greatest,  nor 
has  its  superiority  ever  been  serious- 
ly questioned.  While  Shakespeare 
is  the  giant  playwright  of  the  period, 
towering  above  all  others  and  in- 
tensifying their  virtues,  he  is  by  no 
means  the  only  genius  of  the  day. 
Marlowe,  Jonson,  Massinger,  Ford, 
Tourneur,  Heywood,  Webster— all 
shared  with  Shakespeare  and  each 
other  a  participation  in  the  vibrant 
excitement  of  the  day  which  had 
long  been  fermenting  during  the 
emerging  Renaissance.  The  Eliza- 
bethan theater  was  the  ''mirror  held 
up  to  nature,  as  t'were"  which  Ham- 
let defines;  it  reflected  the  entire 
image  of  Elizabethan  culture  more 
fully  than  has  any  other  art-form 
from  that  day  to  this.  As  evidenced 
by  mass  hunger  for  it  among  the 
common  people,  the  Elizabethan 
stage  not  only  lay  at  the  very  center 
of  community  life;  but  it  created 
that  throbbing  center.  In  its  inte- 
grating role,  the  stage  filled  the 
functions  played  in  our  present-day 
culture  by  comic  books,  magazines, 
newspapers,  books,  radio,  movies, 
Hi-fi,  TV,  telephone,  and  the  stage. 
With  his  contemporary  drama- 
tists, Shakespeare  shared  his  abun- 
dant talents:  a  sensitive  ear  for 
melody  and  word-music  and  actual 
dialogue,  a  deep  understanding  of 
individual  and  group  humanity,  and, 
above  all,  a  life-giving  zest  and  vital- 
ity. These  he  blended  together  with- 
in his  brilliant,  creative  imagination 
which,  through  its  dramatic  powers, 
erected  into  life  on  the  stage  many 
hundreds  of  Shakespearean  charac- 
ters as  throbbingly  alive  as  actual 
Londoners  walking  the  streets  either 
then  or  now.  Such  a  concentration 
of  dramatic  virtues  has  never  since 
been  achieved;  surely  such  excel- 
lence was  inspired  by  a  most  re- 
sponsive audience.  But  whether  it 
was  the  great  audience  which  called 
forth  this  dazzling  display  of  genius 
from  the  playwrights,  or  whether  the 
playwrights  first  created  within  their 
plays  the  causes  for  electric  respon- 
ses within  their  audience,  it  is 
impossible  to  say.  However,  it  is 
undeniable  that  their  stimulation 
was  mutual,  and  that  the  result  of 
this  mutual  enrichment  was  the 
greatest  drama  we  have  ever  known. 
Pwhlems  of  the  Dramatist 
Drama  is  derived  from  the  Greek 
word  meaning  to  do  or  to  perform. 
From  the  beginning,  the  essence  of 
drama  has  been  action  and  voice; 
it  is  no  more  designed  to  achieve  its 
ultimate  power  by  being  read  than 
is  a  score  to  a  symphony.  But  does 
this  mean  that  drama  is,  then,  a 
form  of  literature  not  to  be  read  at 
all?  Or,  since  it  emphasizes  move- 
ment, spoken  dialogue,  representa- 
tion, costume,  and  scenery,  is  drama 
literature  at  all? 
Because  drama  attempts  to  recre- 
ate life  as  it  is  seen  and  valued 
through  the  temperament  of  one 
subjective  individual  (the  dramatist 
himself),  it  is  one  of  the  seven  sister 
arts.  And  because  without  the  use 
of  words  it  would  become  panto- 
mime or  dancing,  it  must  be  classed 
as  literature,  whose  main  concern  is 
with  words.    Yet  all  word-communi-

476 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JULY  1957 
cations  are  not  literature;  far  from 
it.    Why,  then,  is  drama  hterary? 
In  the  words  of  Dr.  P.  A.  Chris- 
tensen,  'To  read  great  hterature 
greatly  is  always  an  emancipation 
and  an  exaltation.  It  is,  in  a  very 
real  sense,  to  be  born  again.  Great 
literature  is  great  experience.  It  is 
experience  that  awakens,  quickens, 
challenges,  enriches  all  that  man  is 
when  he  is  most  truly  himself  .... 
Those  books  are  good  which  would 
in  some  degree  transform  us." 
When  seen  from  this  point  of  view, 
Shakespeare's  dramas  best  exemplify 
this  highest  definition  of  literature. 
Even  so,  drama  differs  greatly  from 
the  essay,  poetry,  and  fiction,  and, 
at  this  point,  those  differences  de- 
serve our  attention. 
Drama  might  be  defined  simply 
as  one  way  of  telling  a  story. 
Drama's  way  of  intensifying  human 
life  which  it  seeks  to  recreate  is  to 
build  up  an  ''illusion  of  reality,''  one 
which  entirely  justifies  our  "willing 
suspension  of  disbelief."  Life  itself 
is  rarely  exciting  or  dramatic;  there- 
fore, mankind  perpetually  hungers 
for  some  intensifying,  condensing 
representation  of  life.  This  is  found 
in  all  art-forms,  but  it  belongs  most 
of  all  to  drama.  For  it  is  drama 
which  recreates  with  that  greatest 
artistic  power  peculiarly  its  own. 
Before  ever  a  play  can  be  spoken 
and  acted,  it  must  be  written.  And 
while  the  playwright  is  aware  that 
the  imaginative,  child-like  willing- 
ness of  his  audience  to  suspend  dis- 
belief and  to  be  captured  by  his 
"illusion  of  reality"  gives  him  much 
leeway,  it  is  still  his  great  problem 
to  create  an  illusion  which  is  suc- 
cessful, or  which  seems  real.  This 
he  must  do  by  impersonating  reality. 
His  tools:  costume,  scenery,  occas- 
ionally  music,   movement,   gesture, 
action,  and  the  spoken  word. 
Like  all  other  makers,  Shake- 
speare first  had  to  decide  what 
dramatic  form  he  should  choose  to 
express  best  that  particular  conden- 
sation of  human  reality  which  still 
lay  unrealized  and  uncommunicated 
within  himself.  Once  he  decided 
whether  to  write  a  comedy  or  a 
tragedy,  his  next  problem  was  to 
write  the  play  which  would  create 
the  particular  illusion  of  reality  he 
desired,  but  which,  at  the  same  time, 
concealed  within  itself  all  the  artistic 
devices  by  which  it  was  realized. 
How  cunning  a  maker  he  had  to  be, 
for  example,  to  fashion  each  speech 
precisely  so  the  audience  could  know 
the  true  character  of  the  speaker  as, 
unconsciouslv,  he  reveals  himself! 
But  how  much  more  complex  was 
his  problem  of  creating  just  the 
right  tone  for  an  entire  scene,  in 
which  the  words  of  each  person 
might  be  likened  to  one  note,  and 
the  playwright  must  harmonize  all
