[Vol44 | July 1957 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Fiction | Title: The | Author: Romney]
Seeing as you have to have the stove hot anyway to cook the custard?" "Tll do it!' Mama _ promised. "Shall I make the ice cream with ICE CREAM FOR THE "FOURTH" mixed vanilla and lemon flavors?" The bright-blue sparkle was in her eyes again, dancing with happiness. "Mixed will be fine," said Papa. LL four of us children trailed Papa excitedly while he drew up the buckets of water from the deep walled-up well, and chopped extra stovewood from the pile of sagebrush clearings, and hitched up the horses to the spring wagon. Then we stood by the gate watching him drive down the long lane between tall white-clover hedges, until he crossed the creek bridge and turned out of sight onto the hill road. It was a long, long afternoon—in spite of the busyness in the kitchen. Mama and I wore our best white aprons and Mama let me help beat cess and mix flour-and-milk thickening for the custard, and stir the cake batter while she was greasing the tins. I got a few good licks at the mixing spoons, too; but Benjie and Freddie, as a reward for carrying in wood and kindling chips (thereby keeping out from underfoot), got the bowls to scrape. Linda slept nearly all afternoon. "Thank goodness!" Mama said, telling Papa afterwards. Long before we could expect him, we kept going to the gate and squinting our eyes down the lane to watch for Papa. Especially with a slow old team like our 'Tom and Jonah, ten miles of driving along the dusty, rutted wagon road up Willow Creek would take hours, Mama said. Of course, Papa and Mr. Gregory would have to talk some, before ever they'd start to get the ice out and load it, and cover it all up with sawdust and lots of 437 gunnysacks so the hot sun wouldn't melt it away before Papa could get home with it. Mama's sigh of relief, when at last Papa's wagon appeared turning into our lane, was no deeper nor longer than mine. Then, such excitement—ice—and not wintertime! We drank ice water enough to float us away, Papa said. We fondled chunks of the cold, sparkling, miraculous stuff until our fingers were blue and stiff—and we loved it! The rigged-up ice cream freezer wasn't exactly perfect, Papa was finding. He got tired standing up by the table "agitating" the pail, so he had to stop and fix a low bench so he could sit down. His hands got cold, and he said it must have brought on his rheumatism, the way his fingers hurt. He stopped again while he hunted up a pair of wool gloves to put on. He would rest each time the pail was opened up for Mama to use the eggbeater. She took a few whacks too at the "agitating,' but she had to get our supper—we had the rest of the peas and potatoes and some canned salmon and lettuce leaves with vinegar, and because we were so hungry and the ice cream wasn't frozen yet, we ate the chocolate layer cake! 'Then Papa went back to the freezing business again. AMA and I did the dishes; the sun went down and the twilight deepened. After awhile the midsummer full moon came sailing up above the east hill. Papa moved out to the back yard. "Too pretty a night to stay inside," he said, "and besides it's quite a lot cooler out." 438 We brought chairs out and _ sat around, waiting. At last, opening the lard- = for maybe the twentieth time, Papa said, "I'm fagged. It's not like it ought to be, but I'm going to call it ice cream and we're going to eat it. Now or never." "Poor darling; you've worked so hard!' Mama said. She began to fill the glass dishes. Oh, but they looked festive, heaped with pale-yellow mounds and with their rims sparkling in the moonlight like fairy rings! At the very last, Mama piled two extra spoonfuls into Papa's dish. He grinned tiredly. "Don't know if J want it now that I've made it," he said. "Why, darling!" Mama told him, "of course you want it. 'Taste it!" He did, and perked up at once. "Why, it's not half bad!" he exclaimed. "Not bad at all. Not half bad!" We all began joyously to eat. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1957 There were hard icy lumps that had escaped the eggbeater's blades, and the texture was splintery with ice crystals; but it was cold and sweet and tasted wonderfully of mixed vanilla and lemon flavorings, and the moonlight added magic, I guess, to make it unforgettable. "Next year," Papa said, "I'm going to organize the ranch folks around here for a Fourth of July celebration that will make you sit up and take notice. We'll have flags and ice cream freezers, and speeches and—everything. You'll see " We did see, and it was wonderful and we never had another Fourth without its just due of celebration. But no ice cream that ever came after had quite the miraculous quality and flavor of that which was made in Papa's rigged-up freezer and eaten, lumps and ice splinters and all, joyously in the midsummer moonlight of that first Fourth on Willow Creek.

Mother to Daughter Elsie McKinnon Strachan I have been here before, before, With bright gifts in my hand, Viewing the waiting walls, as you, From where you stand. I brought crystal and china, too, Hung each cup on a hook, Placed each pan and kettle so, Fach shining vase, each book. Oh, I was here before, before I knew your lovely face; Or knew those tender hours would bring Joy, indefinite as grace, To blend with this new wonderment, Nebulous in tone; While you who reached to light my lamp, Now light your own. Jeff Thomson SENTINEL PINE IN YOSEMITE NATIONAL PARK, CALIFORNIA Woantain Pine Vesta N. Lukei If it can reach the sky Where wild geese go,. If it has strength to bear The winter snow, If cones at bough-tips stand Like candle glow, If, sheltered near it, quaking Aspen grow. And gold Brodiaea, asters Bloom below, How tall a pine may be I need not know. Page 439 Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, July 1, and July 15, 1897 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomMeEN OF ALL NATIONS" LETTER FROM CANADA: The Relief Society is still looking after the interests and welfare spiritually and temporally of the sisters in this locality, there are comparatively few who require financial assistance, but there are many who are willing and able to assist in sickness, of which we have very little, or aid in the many: benevolent enterprises to keep means in our treasury. We have organized one new society in the last year that is composed principally of young married sisters,... It is a matter of surprise the amount of talent and excellent ability that seems to be the natural inheritance of the children of the Saints. —Zina Y. Card THE BRIGHAM YOUNG MONUMENT UNVEILED: The immense multitude burst into applause as President Woodruff arose, then silence fell again and the honored veteran of ninety years said in clear tones and audible voice while the great multitude was hushed in eager listening, "In the name of God I now unveil this monument," and instantly the Stars and Stripes began to unfold and fall away from the granite column, revealing to the people the heroic, bronze figure of the great Pioneer leader Brigham Young. —FEditorial DEATH OF THE GOVERNOR'S WIFE: We offer a tribute of love to Teresa Clawson Wells, the beloved wife of Governor Heber M. Wells and daughter of H. B. And Sister Margaret Clawson of this city.... As a child the writer remembers Teresa as very beautiful in face and figure, fair as a lily, with long golden curls, and better still, gentle in all her ways and beloved by her associates for her unsefishness and amuiability.... She was a devoted daughter and affectionate sister.... Mrs. Wells died in the very bloom of womanhood in the midst of a rich life... An exceptionally devoted wife, a tender and true mother and well calculated to entertain and do honor to the position of her husband as the Chief Executive of the State. —Editorial OLD AGE How grand, how beautiful is old age! The crowning glory of a life well spent, That, looking back, can see no rent, But noble effort writ on every page; Truly it is a noble heritage, That lovely, gentle grace which time has lent. —Ruth M. Fox A PIONEER WOMAN'S BIRTHDAY: Monday, June 14th, was the birthday anniversary of Sister Mary Jane Thompson, a pioneer of 1847, although at that time she had not entered her teens. Sister Thompson's parents were veterans in the Church and she is the cousin of Prest. Joseph F. Smith, their mothers were sisters and the daughters of Joseph Fielding, who with his family was among the first who embraced the Gospel in this dispensation. Sister Sarah M. Kimball and Sister 'Thompson's son Robert, arranged a surprise for Sister Thompson and invited a few of her intimate friends and Sister Kimball presented her with an elegant ornamented birthday cake with her name on it. —News Note Page 440 ELLE S. SPAFFORD, General President of Relief Society, in May, attended the convention of the American Association of Practical Nurses in Atlantic City, New Jersey, as a member of their board. She also met with the members of the National Board of the American Mothers Association in New York City, the association which selects the American Mother of the year. She conferred with leaders of the National Council of Women of the United States, and met informally with officers of the New York Stake Relief Society. MEFs. HAZEL HEMPEL ABEL, of Lincoln, Nebraska, sixtyeight year old mother of four daughters and one son (all outstanding), is the American Mother of 1957. An ex-school teacher, she successfully managed her husband's big construction company, as president, for fifteen years after his death. She also contributed much to her home, church, and community. For fiftyfive days, in 1954, she filled an unexpired term as United States Senator, having beaten fourteen men competitors in a political race.