[Vol44 | July 1957 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: 430 The Joy of Renewal Naomi M. Manwaring]
realization  of  what  we  have  missed,  when  we  experience  a  renewal. 
It  happened  to  me  yesterday,  the  joy  of  renewal,  when  for  the  first  time  in  two 
years,  I  was  privileged  again  to  attend  Relief  Society. 
Now,  as  I  look  back,  perhaps  I  was  not  appreciative  enough  of  the  wonderful 
blessings  that  were  mine  during  the  many  years  I  attended  and  worked  in  Relief  Society. 
Perhaps  I  needed  that  fallow  period  in  order  to  realize  the  full  significance  of  this  in- 
spired organization. 
This  I  do  know,  that  yesterday  when  I  attended  Relief  Society,  the  full  impact 
of  the  greatness  of  this  work  enveloped  me.  I  realized  the  abundance  of  blessings 
attending  those  sisters  who  came  out  to  partake  of  the  testimonies,  prayers,  lessons, 
and  music. 
Humbly  I  bowed  my  head  in  prayer  and  gratefulness  for  the  blessings  of  the  sweet 
spirit  of  love,  the  friendliness  and  companionship  of  my  sisters  that  was  present,  for 
the  contentment  and  happiness  that  surrounded  each  one  of  us  at  that  meeting. 
I  am  truly  grateful  to  my  Father  for  the  blessing  that  is  mine  again  and  the  joy 
that  comes  from  the  renewal  of  my  active  membership. 
S, arrow's  cJreasure 
Ada  Marie  Patten 
Sorrow  has  a  treasure 
It  yields  in  generous  measure. 
It  is  the  rare  endowment 
Beyond  all  we  have  known 
To  feel  another's  heartache 
As  keenly  as  our  own.

Ice  Cream  for  the  "Fourth" 
Maryhale  Woolsey 
FROM  its  first  sunup  moment, 
it  seemed,  that  day— July  4, 
1904— was  bright  and  hot. 
''She's  a  blazer/'  Papa  said  when  he 
brought  the  morning  milk  in,  froth- 
ing high  in  the  shiny  brass  pail;  and 
''She's  sure  one  blazer!"  he  said 
again  when  he  came  in  from  the 
beeyard  to  eat  dinner.  His  face  was 
rosy  and  perspiring,  and  his  blue 
madras  shirt  had  wide  streaks  of 
wetness  down  its  back.  He  filled 
the  washbasin  with  cool  water  and 
dipped  his  face  in  it,  and  doused  it 
over  his  hair. 
I  went  to  the  wide-open  door  and 
stared  over  the  expanse  of  Oregon 
sagebrush  stretching  away  to  the 
top  of  a  hill,  past  the  curling  line 
of  green  that  was  Willow  Creek 
meandering  its  way.  Over  west- 
ward were  our  neighbors'  ranches, 
where  lay  the  purple-bloomed  fields 
of  alfalfa  where  Papa's  bees  flew  to 
gather  honey.  I  couldn't  see  any- 
thing anywhere  that  looked  like 
blazes.  Puzzled,  I  came  back  and 
slid  into  my  chair. 
"Blazer  or  not,  it  doesn't  seem 
like  the  Fourth  of  July,"  Mama  was 
saying,  as  she  set  a  big  bowl  of 
creamed  peas  and  new  potatoes  on 
the  table  next  to  the  platter  of  fried 
ham.  Her  blue-flowered  calico  dress 
looked  wilted,  her  bangs  were  com- 
ing uncurled,  and  her  face  was 
dampy  pink.  "No  parade  to  go  to, 
no  program  with  speeches  and  sing- 
ing, no  flags  to  wave."  Her  voice 
sounded  wobbly. 
"Dickens  of  a  note,"  said  Papa. 
*'Why  didn't  we  think?    We  could 
have  sent  to  Sears  and  Roebuck  and 
got  a  flag.  We  really  ought  to 
have  one." 
"No  picnic  like  back  home," 
Mama  went  on.  (Home,  to  Mama, 
was  a  Utah  farm  near  mountains, 
with  a  canyon  always  deep-green 
and  cool  and  tangy  with  smells  of 
pine  trees  and  spruce.  I  almost 
knew  what  it  was  like,  myself,  from 
hearing  her  tell  about  it  so  much.) 
"Not  even. .  .  ."  Here  Mama's  voice 
had  a  break  in  it,  and  I  looked  up 
and  saw  her  eyes  blinking  tears  back. 
"Not  even  a  dish  of  ice  cream  to 
eat!" 
"We  sure  ought  to  have  ice  cream 
for  the  Fourth  of  July,"  Papa  said. 
"It'd  sure  taste  good,  too,  a  day  like 
this."    He  looked  sad. 
I  felt  sad,  too.  I  remembered  ice 
cream,  from  a  day  last  summer  in 
twenty-miles-away  Vale,  where  Papa 
had  taken  us  to  an  ice-cream  parlor. 
It  was  all  pink  and  white,  with 
tables  that  had  round  wood  tops 
and  queer— but  pretty— twisted-wire 
legs;  one  set  was  children's  size, 
special.  I  sat  at  that  one  with  Ben- 
jie  and  Freddie,  who  ate  their  ice 
cream  down  real  fast  and  howled 
for  more— which  Papa  said  they 
couldn't  have;  but  I  ate  mine  slow- 
ly, savoring  the  cold  delightful 
sweetness  of  long  thin  "licks"  off 
each  spoonful,  so  mine  lasted  long- 
est of  anybody's. 
T  came  back  from  remembering,  to 
hear    Mama    say,    "Oh,    it    isn't 
really  important,   I   guess.     We've 
got  so  much  to  be  happy  about— 
Page  435

436  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JULY  1957 
the   honey   crop   looking   so   good,  ''I    don't   know   ...    ice  cream 
and  .  .  .  exervthing.  .  .  ."  freezers  are  so  different  from  any- 
Benjie  and  Freddie,  with  bibs  tied  thing    else/'    Mama    began.     "But 
o\'er  their  blue  denim  rompers,  were  you're   good   at   rigging   things   up, 
eating  peas  and  potatoes  as  fast  as  dear;  just  maybe,  you.  .  .  ." 
they  could.    I  guessed  they  couldn't  "I've   got   it!"   Papa   jumped   up 
remember  ice  cream  yet;  I  guessed  and  went  to  the  corner  where  the 
remembering    didn't    start    till   you  wash  tubs  were,  and  set  the  smallest 
were  about  five  and  had  napkins  in-  one  on  the  ironing  table.    Then  he 
stead  of  bibs.     I  tucked  mine  care-  got  a  ten-pound  size  lard  pail  from 
fully  in  at  the  neck  of  my  favorite  the    high    shelf,    one   of   the   extra 
red  and  white  checkered  gingham  strong  pails  that  we  were  saving  to 
everyday  dress,  feeling  glad  I  didn't  put  honey  in,  when  the  extracting 
have  to  have  it  all  covered  up  with  was  done,  and  set  it  inside  the  tub. 
a    big    bib    like    Mama    was    tying  Taking  hold  of  the  pail  by  the  little 
around  baby  sister  Linda;  her  dress,  round  knobs  at  the  sides,  he  began 
made  of  the  same  goods  as  mine,  to  turn  the  pail  this  way  and  that; 
hardly  could  be  seen.  a  half-turn  left  and  then  a  half-turn 
All  at  once  Papa  spoke  up  so  loud  right, 
it  made  me  jump.  "Lib,  why  can't  "Now,  see— we  put  the  custard 
we  make  some  ice  cream?"  ("Lib"  in  the  pail  and  put  the  cover  on; 
was  Mama  when  Papa  got  excited  then  we  put  the  ice  and  salt  around 
or  mad.)  "I  could  get  some  ice  from  it,  in  the  tub,  and  I  move  it  back 
old  man  Gregory's  place;  he's  got  and  forth  this  way.  Every  so  often 
a  cave  full  of  it  up  there,  he  stored  we  open  it  up  and  you  can  beat  the 
from  the  creek  last  winter.  He'd  custard  with  the  eggbeater  to  make 
let  me  have  enough  to  freeze  a  gal-  it  fluffy.  See?" 
Ion  of  ice  cream."  "Oh,  darling!"  Mama  said,  breath- 
Mama's  eyes  lighted  up  bright-  less.  "U  you  aren't  the  smartest 
blue  for  a  minute  and  then  faded,  man!  Do  you  suppose  it'll  really 
"It's  five  miles,  at  least,  to  Greg-  work?" 
cry's.    Take  half  a  day.  .  .  ."  ''I  don't  see  why  not."  Papa  came 
"Well!  What's  half  a  day  when  back  to  finish  his  eating.    He  looked 
it's  the  Fourth  of  July?  We  ought  mighty  proud.    "Anyway,  we're  sure 
to  have  some  ice  cream,  and  I  guess  going  to  find  out.    Now,  look,  you'd 
we  can  knock  off  for  the  afternoon  better  get  the  custard  made  right 
—when  it's  a  holiday  like  this!"  away,  so  it'll  have  time  to  cool.    I'll 
"Besides,  we  haven't  any  ice  cream  raise  you  a  tubful  of  water  to  set 
freezer,"  Mama  said.  the  kettle  in;  that'll  help,  and  you 
"Oh,  I  had  forgotten,"  Papa  said,  can  save  the  water  for  washday  or 
''Why  didn't  we  bring  along  the  Saturday   baths.     And   how   about 
Co-op  store  when  we  came  to  Ore-  making  a  chocolate  layer  cake  to  go 
gon?      The    hardware    department,  with  the  ice  cream?    Seeing  as  you 
anyway."     He    began    to    rub    his  have  to  have  the  stove  hot  anyway 
chin,  his  face  thoughtful.     ''Maybe  to  cook  the  custard?" 
we    can    rig    up    something;    there  'Til    do    it!"    Mama    promised, 
ought  to  be  some  way   "  "Shall  I  make  the  ice  cream  with