[Vol46 | September 1959 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Fiction | Title: Bulbs | Author: Crawford]
Tacoma (pure white, peonyflowered ) BULBS FOR WINTER BLOOMING Fantasy (salmon-rose parrot tulip ) Daffodils King Alfred (golden yellow) Mt. Hood (pure white ) Cheerfulness (double white) Freesias Oxalis (Bermuda Buttercup) Lilv of the Vallev Mluscari (grape hyacinth ) Crocus Scillas (wood hyacinths) Aiaryllis Procedure for Planting Bulbs The directions for growing hyacinths, which follow, apply in a gencral way to other bulbs, but the procedure should be varied according to the size of the bulbs and the types of containers used. Some gardeners have found that they have better results by planting all small bulbs at Icast one-half inch under the soil. Narcissi are sometimes planted in pebbles, in peat moss, in commercial growing mediums, or in specially designed vases. Hyacinths for the Indoor Garden Because of their radiant color, lavish bloom, fragrance, and dependability, hyacinths are favorites with the indoor gardencr. Selecting varictics. For best results, choose the largest size and finest quality bulbs available. 'The smaller bulbs will usually produce blossoms, but they will be later and not so resplendent. In choosing colors and color combinations, consider the color scheme in your home. Very few homes have furnishings in colors which harmonize well with the dark purple-blue hyacinths. White and ycllow and pink sccm to 607 harmonize more beautifully with the colors and furnishings in most homes. Since hyacinths of different colors have a different time for blooming, it is not advisable to mix colors in the same container, although this can be done if you want to take the risk of having some of the blossoms beginning to fade at the time others are coming into bloom. Usually the pale pink hyacinths will be the first to bloom. Containers for hyacinth bulbs. Here the choice is wide, for bulbs will grow and do well in containers which can be drained and also in containers which have no drainage facilities. Containers at least five inches deep are preferred for the large hyacinths bulbs, but more shallow pots can be used. Occasionally, if a pot is too shallow, the hyacinth, when rooted, will "stand up" on its roots and will have to be repotted. Containers may be of glass, china, earthenware, clay, copper, tin, aluminum, brass, or other material. You may find around the house cnough suitable containers for all the bulbs you want to plant: pitchcrs — bowls — glasses — vases — cans. Some of the containers will be suitable for a single bulb, and others may be used for groupings. Soil Mixtures for Growing Hyacinths The mixture usually preferred consists of one-half garden loam and one-fourth cach of peat moss and sand. Add to this mixture about one cup of bone meal and one cup of charcoal to each quart measure of soil. Planting the Bulbs If a container which can be drained is used, cover the drainage 608 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1959 hole with a flat pebble. For undrained containers the bottom should be covered with a layer of gravel or pebbles about an inch or more in depth. Sprinkle charcoal (which can be obtained at seed stores and florist shops) over the pebbles, in both types of containers. The charcoal helps to keep the soil fresh and aerated. Fill the container with the soil mixture to about one-half inch from the top, then sect the bulbs firmly into the soil. For earlv bloom leave the top of the bulb above the soil. Some gardencrs Ieave at least a third of the bulb uncovered. Towever, others prefer to completely cover the bulb, and some place one-half inch of soil over the top. It will be found, generally, that the deeper the bulb is planted the later will be the bloom. As soon as the bulbs are planted, water them thoroughly, so that there will not be any particles of dry soil in the pot. Storage of Bulbs The bulbs should be stored in a cool, dark plaec. 'Vhis may be a cellar, an unheated basement room, shelves on a back porch, or they may be stored outdoors in a pit in the garden area, or set under shrubs, or placed against the foundation of the house. If the bulbs are stored outdoors, they should be protected from frost by covering with wooden crates or boxes stl a rug placed over the top. It is necessary to keep the bulbs damp all the time, but not soaking with water. The amount of water necded will depend largely upon the humidity of the place of storage. The Time of Blooming About four to eight wecks after bulbs have been planted, the green shoots wil appear, beautiful and shining little pyramids. In about two more weeks the flower buds will begin to form, and at this time, or later, the bulbs should be moved to a cool, lighted window, and kept there until the color is noticeable in the flower buds. Then the plants. May be placed in a sunny window for their blooming. If thev are removed to a cool place at nights, the blossoms will last much longer. The soil should be kept damp, but not soggy, at all times. Disposal of Bulbs When the blossoms fade, cut them off the plant and discard them. Let the leaves remain uncut, and again place plants in a cool place. Water them sparingly, and as soon as the garden soil can be worked in the spring, plant the hvacinths four to five inches deep and about four inches apart and let them grow until the leaves wither. If the bulbs, upon being removed from the pots, show signs of infestation by worms or other pests, soak the bulbs overnight in a solution made by chssolving one teaspoontul of lysol (corrosive sublimate) in one quart of water. In the springtime, a year from the time of placement in the outdoor garden, the hvacmths will bloom; again, but it will take several years for them to acquire their original size and vigor. Bulbs which have served one season of indoor bloom should not be potted again, but, left in the garden, they will bloom for many years.