[Vol46 | September 1959 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: The | Author: Ludlow]
[The Real Worth of The Relief Society Magazine by Daniel H. Ludlow]

This slight half-adult, half-child, with long golden braids above the wide-set, deep, smiling eyes, was an assistant. Young? Yes, very young, but capable, most of the time, if she kept her two-track mind on both the book she was reading and the organ she was helping to tune. 'That voice with the sing in it was the voice of Father, the technician of the great organ. "Next," his voice sang out to her, and her nimble fingers touched the next note. "Next," he called again and she pressed down the following note. "Next, next, next," and so it went until all the voice of the organ was in perfect tune. Father would busy himself in the organ for a few minutes, then come down to the console. Expertly he would run his agile fingers over the keyboard listening and _ selecting the off-key notes. Perhaps it was the terrific heat wave or the sudden cold after the evening thunder shower that put the great, sensitive organ Page 584 out of tonal quality. As Father played, suddenly a mawkish screech or a thunderous belch would scream out, instead of the usual gracious song of the note, for the great organ was like a barometer, sensitive to changes in the weather. In summer it was extremely temperamental. Its behavior could be disastrous to the great master who played it, had it not been for the tuner and his assistant. Father's attuned ear found the flaws, consulting with the young assistant, and a new set of stops would be set. Then Father would go back to the great chamber of the organ, where thousands of wires and _ intricacies awaited him, and with his tuning forks, he would again be busy, adjusting each note to perfect tone, while the young daughter was at the console playing the notes. Tuning of this amazing, intricate, delicate mechanism was a must, daily, in preparation for the noonday visitors and tourists who flocked to hear the great master in the noonday recital and see the fascinating, formidable, unique structure that housed it. When tours of people passed through the building just to eye the building and the organ, and to listen to the unbelievable acoustics, they were also amazed if they saw the young assistant at the keyboard. She was quite unaware of them, however, wrapped up in her work and her book. Father was calling now. His little assistant sat alert. They were going to change the voice again. She NEXT was sharp and dexterous and could change it without his coming down to the console. She managed so well that once they started to tune, he seldom came down again except to try the whole of the organ or several voices together. Then he would run his fingers over the keyboard or lose himself in a few moments of sweet harmony. His melodious voice, that could sing so well and was part of the ward choir, was calling to her. "Let's get the echo organ now, and we will be through for today. You get it set while I go to the far back of the building." The assistant on the organ seat closed her book. Expertly she adjusted the stops. When the voice, distant now in the great structure and hardly audible, called its "Next," she was already reading in her book and waiting. 'This was the last they would do today, and the great master would be there any moment now to practice for the noonday recital. "Next. Next. Next," came the far distant voice. EXT, next," came a voice in her ear. Startled, her book closed, she fumbled a half dozen keys on the organ and then gained composure. The gentle, strong hands of the master rested on her shoulders. "Did I startle you?" he inquired. "And how is our little assistant today?" He looked at her warmly. He was fond of this young lady who so cleverly manipulated the voice of this great instrument he played. She put the book by her side on the bench. "Good morning, Sir. Are you early?" She spoke to him in an unaffected, mature way with a 585 quiet hint of reserve in her manner. He liked that well-mannered attitude, "Probably the reflection of her intellectual, nicely disciplined home," he had often said to his wife. The organist patted her shoulder, picked up the book by her side, read the title out loud, World's Greatest Literature. "Are these the new books your father told me he bought you children?" She expertly moved her fingers with each "Next," as she visited with the organist. "This is one of the books," she replied, watching him as he turned the pages, noting various titles out loud. "How many books have you read this summer, while you have helped your daddy?" "I could hardly say, but many. I usually stop at the library several times a week. A very nice person there helps me select my reading. We are great friends now because I am there so often." "Bless you, child, I wish my children read just a small part of what you do." In the far distance, Father's voice called, ""That's all, now." The master slid his big, well-built frame in on the bench beside the assistant.