[Vol6 | January 1919 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial]

Editorial
=========

EDITORIAL Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Motto — Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells...... President Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams ...... First Counselor Mrs. Julina L. Smith...... Second Counselor Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman..... General Secretary Mrs. Susa Young Gates..... Recording Secretary Mrs. Emma A. Empey ....... Treasurer Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon Dr. Romania B. Penrose Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. Emily S. Richards Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley Miss Sarah Eddington Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune Miss Lillian Cameron Mrs. Ida Y. Beatie Mrs. Phoebe B. Dusenberry Miss Edna May Davis Miss Sarah McLelland Mrs. Donnette Smith Kesler Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor........ Susa Young Gates Business Manager...... Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager...... Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol VI. JANUARY, 1919. No. 1 ANNUAL GREETINGS From the Presidency and General Board to the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Dearly beloved Sisters: The year 1918, which is just closing, has been a most eventful and stupendous period, not only in the history of the whole world, but as well in the events which have crowded upon the members of this great and growing organization. War and its attendant horrors and sacrifices have called into feverish activity every atom of reserve power in the ranks of our members. Individuals and ward units, stake and general officers, have each filled up to the brimming point their measure of labor and usefulness. The manifestations of loyalty to our Country, made by this Society as a whole, and by each and every member thereof, are a source of honest pride to us, and we feel that the heavens rejoiced over the tireless labors and sometimes heartbreaking sacrifices made in our Country's cause by the mothers in Zion. Our hearts are heavy with sympathy for those of our mothers and sisters who have participated in the supreme life-sacrifice rendered by a few of our soldier-boys in this dreadful conflict. God comfort the sorrowing parents and friends. 50 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. No less do we rejoice in the fact of swift-arriving peace, and the near return of our various home battalions. We are happy also in the knowledge that our well-brought-up boys will not partake of the dreaded restlessness and dissatisfaction usual to the returned soldier; but we are blessed in the assurance that our dear boys will return gladly to farm and field and school, well knowing that their life-ideals are founded in the gospel of Christ and that Zion contains all possibilities for continued service and life-development which any man may wish or require. We would suggest in this connection that mothers constantly advise their sons to keep free of secret societies and demoralizing union groups. The testing time for men's souls is not far away. We have all grieved and mourned over the passing of our beloved and revered President Joseph F. Smith. He was a true friend to women and a generous and just adviser to this organization. At the reorganization of the General Board, seven years ago, he at once assumed and always maintained a profound fatherly interest and personal direction in the great and small matters connected with the Board and the Society. Many of our recent activities are the result of his plans and advice. His death marks an epoch in the history of this organization. The First Presidency of the Church, recently organized, gives us great joy and hope that a renewal of interest and personal concern for our welfare as a Society will mark the loyal and generous administration of Presidents Heber J. Grant, Anthon H. Lund and Charles W. Penrose. We bespeak from every sister in the Church and especially in this Society the loving faith and prayerful support for President Grant and his associate leaders of the Church. This Church is led by our Savior through His inspired servants, and we love and honor them one and all, teaching our children and children's children to do likewise. The dreaded epidemic which has spread its pall over our communities has taken its heavy toll from our homes. More deaths have resulted in Utah and in the United States from this latter-day plague than has resulted from the war. Not the least beloved of those who have gone from us is the genial and gifted young business man, Edwin F. Parry, Jr., who has had charge of the mailing department of our Magazine. Not only his family and friends, but our whole office force miss sadly the cheerful presence and faithful labors of Brother Parry. In common with you all, the counselors and the General Board rejoice in the continued life and measurable vigor of our own honored leader, President Emmeline B. Wells. She attends her office duties daily, and takes the same vital interest in all Relief Society matters which has characterized her associations with the Board and the organization from her youth up. The future holds much constructive and reconstructive labor EDITORIAL. 51 for us all. There is strength in struggle and joy in toil with infinite spiritual hope smiling at us from the promising face of the new year. We shall not fail in fulfillment nor falter in allegiance. For no matter what comes to us and ours, to the Society and the Church, or to the trembling multitudes of the world whose hearts are failing them for fear, our feet are set in holy places, and we have the promise of our Redeemer that we shall not be moved. Emmeline B. Wells, Clarissa Smith Williams, Julina L. Smith, AND Members of the General Board. FIRST PRESIDENCY REORGANIZED. On the 23rd of November, 1918, the First Council of the Church was reorganized with Heber J. Grant as President, Anthon H. Lund as First Counselor and Charles W. Penrose as Second Counselor. Some of the Auxiliary organizations were also reorganized on the 27th as follows: Y. M. M. I. A. with Anthony W. Ivins as Superintendent, Brigham H. Roberts as First Assistant, and Richard R. Lyman as Second Assistant; Sunday Schools, David O. McKay, Superintendent; Stephen L. Richards, First Assistant; George D. Pyper, Second Assistant; John S. Bennett, Treasurer; George D. Pyper, General Secretary; T. Albert Hooper, Business Manager. Our February number will contain articles and pictures of President Heber J. Grant and Counselors, with appreciations by friends and associates of these three leaders in Israel.