[Vol27 | April 1940 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Article | Title: When a song is thus thoroughly learned it is ready for presentation to the chorus  Color in i]

When a song is thus thoroughly learned, it is ready for presentation to the chorus. | Color in i (Continued from page 228) or yellow-greens-and-blue-greens are the combinations hardest to use.
Avoid too many tones of the same color (one or two are best), or too many different color tones of the same intensity.
Confine furnishings to medium tones and accessories to bright colors to avoid the disturbing effect of too strong or too many colors (3).
Bright colors should be used in furnishings only when balance can be kept.
Limit color in rooms to not more than three or four tones at the most. It is best to confine large spaces to off-white, pale tints, or "killed" colors (colors that have been grayed?hard to use without 'professional help). In selecting color combinations, there are two associated family groups that go very well together but that require some knowledge and experience to intermix successfully. Orange, yellow, and green together with the countless related tans, tusts, limes, olive, browns, and yellow-greens with white make one group; red, blue, and purple with pinks, wines, mauves, grays, and white make the other. In the first group such combinations as yellow, white, and chartreuse; brown, white, and yellow; pale green, gold, and rust are easy examples. In the second group, wine, pink and white; red and white, blue and white, or red, blue, and white; mauve, wine, and white are easily handled.
Intermixture combinations such as pink and brown; powder blue and_ yellow; wine, yellow, and white; red, green (Coritinued on page 282) ASK for FREE FULLER Aids to BEAUTIFICATION See the Fuller Paint Dealer in your community for a wealth of printed and illustrated suggestions on beautifying the home with PAINTS and WALLPAPERS. The profusion of bright colors and designs for your walls are as lovely as the springtide! You get only the highest quality when you choose FULLER products. W. P. FULLER CO. Salt Lake and Ogden FULLER PAINTS When Buying
