[Vol27 | April 1940 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Article | Title: Music Department How to Stephens]

They contribute to the Mowbray Branch and also carry on their own charity work. One of the members has a flock of ducks to help with their finances." MUSIC DEPARTMENT How to
Learn a New Song 
By Wade N.
Stephens of the Tabernacle Organ Staff HE conductor must know every detail of a new piece and every movement necessary to conduct it before attempting to present it to the chorus.
Some choristers carelessly attempt to teach without first having learned.
Others try conscientiously to learn their new pieces thoroughly, and fail because they do not know how to study.
Here is a procedure to help these: Begin the analysis of a new piece by studying the words.
Determine the meter, and look in the dictionary for uncommon words..
Then read through the words many times, both silently and aloud. Finally, memorize them. As you memorize, begin to discover the emotional content.
Determine and name the mood of each verse and note the changes in mood as the verse progresses.
Mark the important words. At the same time, begin to learn the music. First, hear the general sound of the whole piece by playing it through many times; then learn individual parts so that you can teach them to the chorus.
Notice where the melody of each part becomes prominent and where holds and changes of tempo occur. By applying methods outlined in former articles, it is now possible to set a tempo and determine the dynamics. It is best to write in expression marks as you work them out, to avoid forgetting. At this stage the conductor knows exactly how the perfomance should sound. The next step it to learn how to make it sound that way.
Practise conducting before a mirror, checking to see that the movements you make are likely to produce the desired result. The size of the beat in general must agree with the speed and loudness you expect.
Where changes in tempo or dynamics occur, the beat must be made to change smoothly but definitely.
Left hand movements must be practised until they appear natural and can be done with ease.
Every motion to be made must be decided upon beforehand and repeated until its execution requires no conscious effort. Then, when the music and the technique are so deeply imbedded in the memory that they can be trusted to take care of themselves, the conductor can concentrate upon the emotion that is called up by the words and the music. The mood induced in the conductor by so concentrating produces appropriate facial expressions, and the chorus, secing these, is inspired to sing in a manner that will convey to the listeners the mood the conductor feels.