[Vol27 | April 1940 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Color In The Fisher]

Color in the Home By I. A. Fisher
COLOR is everywhere, in everything. Its power and influence affects the daily life of everyone. It stimulates our senses and emotions, feeds us aesthetically, and at times regulates and controls our moods, making us happy and gay or sad and gloomy, when the days are bright and colorful or drab and gray. Since color is such a universal language, a knowledge and appreciation of it is very important, and we should not only try to understand it but also to speak it beautifully in our homes. In spite of its tremendous importance in our lives, artists and scientists have never agreed on its fundamental principles. For centuries there has been practically no progress or development in this field. Its nomenclature is even less distinct, with such words as "tints", "shades", "hues", "tones", and "values" as ill used as the rules that are supposed to govern them. Only in the past few years has the development of sterile light, violet light, black light, fluorescent light, indirect lighting, and filter lighting given us an inkling as to the tremendous possibilities of color in our lives, and the unlimited opportunities ahead. For years colorists have claimed that so-called complementary colors ?red-green, blue-orange, and yellow-violet?are always harmonious; others claimed them inharmonious. Some regard associated colors?red-yellow-orange, yellow-blue-green?as harmonious combinations, while others claim them inharmonious. Almost any combination of hues is stated to be both good and bad. In spite of all this confusion, there are a few things we do know about color. We know that nothing on earth possesses any color in and of itself. The sun's rays consist of bands of light vibrations of varying frequencies. Certain surface pigments reflect certain frequencies that pass through our eyes, giving us that color sensation. When objects absorb all vibrations, we get a black sensation; when they reflect all vibrations, we get a white sensation. We know that there are no so-called primary, secondary, and tertiary colors. No mixture of pure pigments will give us another pure color. Many pigments that produce color sensations cannot be intermixed, and some produce colors that we can get no other way except by breaking up light. Complementary and associated colors are not necessarily harmonious or inharmonious, but the use of them governs their harmony. WHATEVER color theory we believe in, or whether we have a theory at all, seems of little importance so long as we realize that there are no bad color combinations except when we make them so. All colors that are not discordant are harmonious, and no colors if handled properly are ever discordant. Good color schemes never come by chance but are always a matter of proper
228 balance and of relationships ably and sensitively constructed. Suppose, for example, you are planning the color scheme for your home. The style of architecture, materials, location, neighboring houses, surroundings, and climate should all be considered in determining the correct outside colors. Interior architecture, wall and ceiling space, amount of natural light each room receives and artificial lighting equipment should be studied for a harmonious interior color scheme. Homes of formal architecture?such as Georgian or French? should be painted in formal, light grays, creams, or off-whites. Formal or period interiors would likewise require restraint and precise treatment. Informal or modern interiors should be given a more colorful handling. It is necessary also that in selecting individual room colors, adjoining rooms and halls be considered for effective harmony in the house as a whole. Colors today possess dimensional form and depth. To modern designers, paint is almost a structural medium. Lines and walls can be brought forward, ceilings raised or lowered by colors in tones that recede or project. After a careful consideration of these problems and a decision is reached as to the general colors that are best suited to your needs, the actual selection of tints, shades, and colors themselves should be governed by these facts: 1. The possession of a common quality or bond always promotes closer harmony. In using blue and pink, if the pink has a very faint blue cast, or the blue a pink
  cast, there is better harmony. Everything in nature is an example of this law. The green stem of a rose has considerable red in it, and the red flower has green in it. 2. The choice of qualities is usually more important than the choice of colors. 3. No matter how many hues a color scheme contains, association into not more than three basic colors promotes harmony. 4. Very few hues, especially when disassociated, can be safely used in one scheme. 5. To avoid monotony, one tone should predominate in surface space, one in intensity?the first a tint, and the second a color. THE great majority of homes in America that have improper or faulty color combinations are either: (1) too dark and dingy, (2) too monotonous and uninteresting, or (3) disturbing because of too strong or too many colors. To avoid or overcome dark and dingy rooms (1) it is well to remember that white reflects approximately 80% of its illumination; yellow, 60%; orange, 33%; and blue, 11%. In selecting wall-paper or paint, it is important to know that all tones look very much lighter in small samples than they do on large surfaces. A safe procedure, unless you are using off-whites or a very pale canary yellow, is to select the samples you like and then buy the materials 33% to 50% lighter. Monotonous or uninteresting rooms (2) are caused by the overdominance of one color, too many tones of one color, or hues that do not go well together because of the way they have been used. Blues and greens, purples and browns, or worse still, purple-and-blue-greens, (Continued on page 281)