[Vol27 | April 1940 | Sequence: 00pb3 | Category: Article | Title: Building Peace and Duke]

Mention Relief Society Magazine Milk?for Sound Teeth A child's teeth begin to develop before he is born. At birth these first teeth are fully formed in the jaw. Previous to birth the mother is the sole source of food for her baby. Her diet must protect her own teeth and build those of her child. A quart of milk every day, liberal amounts of fruits and vegetables, together with a supply of sunshine vitamin D, supply excellent tooth-building materials. Teeth are a living part of the body, and like all other parts they depend upon food for growth and strength. Contrary to former theories, there is now convincing evidence that an adult's teeth may be made and kept strong and sound by proper diet even though they have previously shown definite signs of deterioration. It is evident that tooth-building material is needed throughout the entire period from birth to mature life. Milk is richer than any other food in tooth-building materials, calcium and phosphorus. 'The sunshine vitamin D with which some milk is enriched enables the body to make better and mote complete use of those food substances supplied by milk. You'll enjoy the finer flavor of Cloverleaf Irradiated Vitamin D Milk. Everyone ees the benefit of its extra rich vitamin D which. Helps to build and maintain sound, even teeth and straight, strong bones. It costs no more than ordinary milk Cloverleaf Perfectly Pasteurized Grade A Irradiated Vitamin D Milk HOME OF FINE DAIRY PRODUCTS of Cornell University. Director. UNIVERSITY OF UTAH SUMMER SESSION June 10?July 19?July 22?August
16 RELIEF SOCIETY WORKERS: Your attention is called to courses by Howard W. Odum, Director, School of Public Welfare, University of North Carolina. An eminent authority on social problems; and to courses by Hazel Peterson and H. H. Frost. Jr. In the Department of Sociology and Social Work. Six weeks courses will also be offered by Henry Neumann in Social and Civic Education and Ethics and by Margaret S. Chaney in Nutrition. Courses may be taken with or without credit. Institute of Education for Family Life, June 17-21 inclusive. Flora M. Thurston of Cornell University Director. For a copy of the Bulletin, address: The President, University of Utah. When 'Buying 
Mention Relief Society Magazine 284
From Seed Packets to Blossoming Slowers (Continued from page 220) These should be removed as soon as germination takes place?which will require from one to two weeks?for the young plants quickly grow tall and are weak if kept covered. The soil should be stirred and cultivated around each plant as soon as they begin to grow. This should continue until the plants spread out and cover the bare ground. Another mulch of the old fertilizer applied on the surface after the plants are growing will help to stimulate rapid growth as well as produce large, well-colored flowers, and will also be a factoi in conserving moisture. We might go on and on telling how this simple garden could be developed by the addition of a few permanent perennials and bulbs, but then it could not be classed as a garden made entirely from a few packets of seeds. As it is, the planting just described is guaranteed to produce enough color and beauty to repay a hundred fold the labor and expense involved, and to convert any family to an awareness of the joys of a garden of blossoming flowers. ?God made the flowers to beautify the earth, And cheer man?s careful mood; And he is happiest who has power To gather wisdom from a flower, And wake his heart in every hour To pleasant gratitude.? -Wordsworth White Rose (continued from page 274). Memories of a small, cuddly baby; a sturdy lad; a growing man, a man glad and happy to do God?s work. The fragrance of white roses swept around her like a soft, sweet cape. She reached out a small, fragile hand and gathered a perfect bud. Her small, white head was high as David and Connie passed going back to their drab, brown house. They spoke, gently, kindly, and though they smiled, Hester knew they were sorry for her. She carried the rose inside and closed the door. There, standing suddenly very still and quiet in the midst of plenty and luxury, Hester Dean knew, with a poignant pain in her heart, how poor she really was. Enjoy the Thrill & Flowers-Shrubs?Trees Get our acclimated Mountain Grown Tested Seeds and Planting Materials. Assortment for your choosing.  A wonderful Free New 1940
Garden Book For Full Details Salt Lake City and Centerville, Utah Salt Lake City and Centreville, Utah When Buying 
Mention Relief Society Magazine SPECIAL VALUES For CONFERENCE VISITORS Outstanding values in L. D. S. Literature, general books, and high grade merchandise are offered at the Deseret Book Company during Conference Week. While you are attending Conference be sure to visit this friendly Book Store and take advantage of the many attractive bargains. Our Gift Shop is famous for its thousand and one delightful gifts and novelties. We also have Greeting Cards for every occasion. Also a full line of Moving Picture Equipment, Radios, Leather Goods, Fountain Pens, Pencils, Stationery, etc. We are headquarters for all Church Literature and carry the largest stock of Books in the Intermountain Region. DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44
East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah "L. D. S. Training Pays!" THE L.D.S. BUSINESS COLLEGE is SECOND to NONE in Equipment Buildings Faculty Employment Service It's the Right School for Your Commercial Education Ask for our 'Bulletin of Information" L.D.S. Business College SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH Completely Wholesome ?and So Different! Take Home a Loaf Next Time You Shop! Fisher: DUTCH BREAD When Buying 
Mention Relief Society Magazine LIFE INSURANCE Of course he's too young to figure it out for himself... But if he could, he'd probably wonder if his dad was protecting his future. He'd like to feel that no matter what happened ? his "bread and butter," his mother's time to "bring him up" BENEFICIAL INSURANCE Heber J.. Grent, Pres. ? properly, and his education, were all properly provided for through life insurance protection.... While it is fresh in your mind, consult a Beneficial Life Insurance agent. He can render valuable advice and assistance to your life insurance program.
BENFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
Salt Lake City, Utah RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE THE COVER