[Vol27 | April 1940 | Sequence: 00pb2 | Category: Article | Title: April Jennings]

Pooh!" She stomped ahead of him toward the pasture lying to the far side of the corral. Somehow, out in the clean, crisp April springtime, neither could think of the right words to say. The cow was milked. Don got up and climbed through the fence; Eileen turned and started along the path. Don set down the milk pail and picked up a handful of rocks. "We'll have to stand guard so that Susanna and not that other longhorn quadruped will receive the nourishment from this box of grain. The minute our backs are turned she'll have Susanna on the run. Junior hunted this pile of rocks for me." Then his wife began to laugh. It was an odd kind of laugh, but she kept it up, even as the aggressive, old, red cow poked her pious face through the row of new-leaved poplars and stood ready to advance, one round eye on the grain box and the other on the man with the rocks. "What's so funny?" But Eileen couldn't quit laughing until Don said, "Tell us about it, so we can all laugh." Then she turned on him. "I'll tell you! Our cow runs! Our dog runs! Junior runs from the neighbors' kids, and all you can do is run from Dr. Pribble! Oh, I'm so sick of living with a man without any backbone I could fly away. And I'm going to do it! You remember what the superintendent said when I quit school to marry you? Well, I can teach again. I'm not going to run with you much longer. I don't have to!" Her words snapped and crackled in the early April twilight. She whirled and marched wrathfully several yards ahead of him up the path, around the sheds and on to the house. He didn't call for her to stop.
IN all the three weeks which had passed since her speech at the pasture, Don had not asked forgiveness. He had hardly been home long enough. Always the children had been put to bed. Three times the past week he had been away until midnight and then without one word of explanation. She wouldn't ask. But oh, how her heart ached for two strong arms and Don's lighthearted teasing.
A fresh gust of wind which had come with the late April rains whipped against the windows of the sturdy, old house and banged an upstairs shutter as Eileen closed the door and watched from the window while Dr. Pribble and his prospective customer, who had come to take one more look, ducked into their raincoats. Trying to close his deal! She glanced up at the clock over the fireplace. 3:15. Well, right now was a good time to close any deal! "They will be moving in a week," she had heard him say. Moving in a week! Well she wasn't moving in a week, she was moving right now! She could move again. She had done it before! Determinedly, she marched up the steps to the children's rooms. She began folding undershirts and sox from Junior's chest of drawers and placed them too neatly into a large suitcase. She would go right home to Mother's and see Superintendent Passey the minute she got there. He would give her a job next winter; she was sure of that. She would have the children with her and... What if Don objected? Well, he couldn't have them. What if they cried for him? For one moment she wondered just how she would make out with the children alone, and without him. But he just couldn't understand?he never would, he never had in all those years together, which he had made so rich and happy. He never could understand how Eileen's pride was hurt to see her man take the easygoing way when she wanted him to stand up and fight for their destiny. The children would soon be coming from school; she would have to throw things together and dash back downstairs for hers and the baby's things, and they would leave on the 5:30 bus. The children didn't know yet, but, well, she wouldn't need to tell them now. There were just a few more weeks of school, then vacation. They would be glad to be going to visit Grandma, and... Don would come and find them gone. She felt the air heavy with gloom and disaster. Another burst of April rain, carried by wind, marched around the south corner of the house and banged the loose shutter. Because Eileen's heart was breaking and because her body, mind and soul all ached from long weariness, she sank to the floor and cried, her head resting on the open drawer of the chest. Eileen shivered. It was cold sitting up here on the floor. The dampness seemed to come right through the shingles on the high roof. She would have to get up and hurry, hurry.
"Eileen, oh, Eileen. Where are you? Eileen. Eileen!" Don's excited calling was coming nearer. She blew her nose vigorously on one of Junior's soiled shirts and stood up, stiffly. He bounded up the steps. "Eileen, guess what! Where are you?" He found her there, threw his arms around her, raincoat and all, and kissed her just as he used to. "I found the place at last, Eileen?over on the west side." Her heart, which had been fluttering rapidly up the scales, lost its hold and dropped heavily again to the lowest octave. "Moving to the west side," she sighed. Placing another kiss on the top of her dark head and folding her, this time underneath his raincoat, he continued, "It looked so good to me that I thought it might to the other fellow, too?the one who was going to buy this place. I found him in Dr. Pribble's office and coaxed him to take a look before he signed on Dr. Pribble's dotted line. He liked it. It is about the same price and has more space for his chicken apartments. We went back to tell Pribble, and right away the good Doctor began renewing his covenants with me. He counted the rent we've paid the last six months, including that April's rent, as down payment, and we drew up a contract that Solomon himself couldn't improve on." His eyes sweeping the room, he thought he comprehended the meaning of the empty drawers and the bulging suitcases. "You weren't really planning on us moving again were you, honey?" Eileen snuggled more closely against him. The April rain which came down and washed the windows clean was so welcome and restoring. "Listen, there's something else, too. I've got my book finished?you know, the one about School Teachers In Bondage that I've been working on over at school while you've been mad at me. You must arrange to get real mad at me often, honey. Will you? Huh?" She smiled and nodded at him through her tears, then pressed her cold face hard against the hollow of his shoulder. It was broad and warm. Yes, she would. She would get angry often. It was as inevitable as that her teakettle should boil over the hot fire. She was Eileen. And she knew that always her heart would be grateful for the calmness and peace and security that was Don.
GREATNESS