Moving Again By Mr. And Mrs. A. H. Gibbons
Eileen hurried in out of the cold spring night, hung her worn fur coat on its own hanger in the far end of the clothes closet and stepped up to the warm fireplace where Don sat thinking. In the high altitude of the Wasatch Mountains, evenings were cool in spite of the springtime, but Eileen didn't mind the cold. She was glad they had a home here in this beautiful valley, and there was warmth in her heart for the calmness and peace and security she felt with Don. He looked up steadily at his wife as she came in?one of those precise, highly ambitious little women who would have arranged the stars in rows and marched them up and down the heavens?and wondered what her reaction to his words would be. "I've some good news for you, Eileen," he greeted in his calm, tactful way. ""We won't have to do any more fixing about this place. The Doctor was here to tell us that he is bargaining with another party for cash." Don stood up quickly and laid his hand across her shoulders. "I hope you won't mind too much, dear." "What? Mind? Why of all the sophisticated nerve! Just you wait till I get a chance to tell him whose place this is. I'll tell him to go? to go?" "To go climb a tree,' Don supplied. "Don't get all fussed up, Eileen. After all?" "Why that deceitful, mean, old, mean, old?" "Man," said Don, a hint of an amused smile hesitating on his face. Don was always slopping over with generosity, because he believed that kindness and calmness would whittle any trouble down to man size and put a good deal more fun into living. "The idea of his pulling a stunt like that. He can't do it! Why he promised us a year to make that down payment if we'd take this place, Don, and all the rent we've been paying was supposed to be going on the purchase price. Why didn't you tell him what he promised us? That we believed him? Why didn't you tell him what we've done to this place?" "Eileen, listen. Put on the brakes. We can move again, we've done it before," Don said with quiet confidence, that inevitable piece of paper and pencil coming from his pocket. "You're telling me?" Eileen snapped. Don very thoughtfully made O's and A's on the eight-dollar-and-fifty-cent reminder from the M. & L. Coal Co. To relieve a tense atmosphere, Don always made O's and A's on pieces of folded paper or envelope backs. "I suppose if he can get a good cash price?well, if we were in his shoes maybe we'd want to do the same thing, Eileen." "You wouldn't, Don Whiting, and you know it. If you promised, you'd stick to it. What did he say anyway? Didn't he?" "Just said he's trying to sell the old home place because he can get cash, and all we can do is make payments. Can't blame him much, really."
230
Eileen trembled with' uncontrollable resentment. Don was altogether too patient and tolerant and understanding. And Dr. Pribble couldn't do this to them. He had promised he would let them have the home. She wouldn't move again. She liked this renovated old home with its place for a cow, chickens, garden and a lot of outdoors for three growing children. "We can be glad we found. Out he wasn't going to keep his agreement before we spent any more on the place, - Eileen." Eileen said bitterly, "I don't suppose you remember the new bathroom fixtures, that inlaid linoleum for the kitchen, all the painting and kalsomining? We only spent about four hundred good dollars for improvements, and most of it will stay put while we go blissfully on making payments. No wonder he's got a chance to sell it for cash." "Sh! Mrs. Dewey'll think you're beating me again, honey." Eileen lowered her voice, but with threatening earnestness she reminded him. "Remember this house that morning we came? Plaster and old wall-paper in great heaps all over the kitchen floor, everywhere woodwork that needed scrubbing and two coats of paint, a yard filled with bottles, cans, old straw and rusty stove pipes! I tell you, Don, I won't do that again. I won't move again! Junior and Jackie worked for weeks to get materials up in that big poplar for their tree hut. And for what? Don't you care at all, Don?" "Of course I care, honey. And I don't feel exactly right about this deal, but I can see the Doctor's point of view; and?well, let's just  'calm down a bit, honey, and think 'it all over, and maybe we can decide what's best to do about it." Don was made that way, things just naturally kept calm inside, while Eileen blew off the steam for the family. "To. Think you believed that righteous little gnat! You wouldn't even take my warning and get something down in writing. Because he's Dr. Pribble he thinks?he thinks? Well he can't make me move!". "He can very easily, if he wants to. We don't have a written contract you know. There's not a thing you can do, so you might as well?" Eileen's face brightened. "Did you give him the check for April's rent?" "No. I'll send him a check." "Oh, no you won't! We won't pay him another penny. We'll get something for all this work, and we'll stay here till he drags us out. If he comes here after it, I'll tell him to wait?and I mean wait!" "Come on, Mom," he said kindly, placing paper, pencil and alphabet back in his pocket. "I must hie to bed if my students are to gain that portion of their necessary education on the morrow. We won't have to move until the last of April, so we've got more than a month to find a new place. Let's sleep on it, huh?"
SUDDENLY Eileen was ashamed and disgusted with all this useless raving. She was sick inside. She had never been able to accomplish anything by it. All the atmosphere about her, electric with "push", had never penetrated the peace that was with Don, the deep sense of contentment that was part of him. She had preached her acid sermons, which of course she hadn't always entirely meant.
MOVING AGAIN
They had added dramatic thrill to living, perhaps, but they hadn't changed Don. Closing her eyes did not shut out her thoughts. She felt almost bitter toward him, lying beside her. He could have had a good job, or a better one, if he hadn't been so easygoing. He could have had that job in high school if he had put up a fight for it. Why he could write, with all his background and common sense! He could make money at it if he would, instead of dillydallying along just for the fun of it, the big?the big fool. She ought to get a divorce. She could, too. But well, she loved him. He was so good to her and the children. Don had a tenderness and thoughtfulness that was rare in men. "Why didn't you let me do that, Eileen? You sit down and read, I'll swish the supper dishes. Come on, kiddies, let's do this for Mama." That was Don?always as kind and good-natured and calm as a ewe lamb. She swallowed a little resigned choke that stuck in her throat. She had always had hopes that he would some day wake up and become enthusiastically alive, that he would find a way out of all this living on bare necessities. A grade school teacher just couldn't make enough to keep a family in this day and age. She had always prayed that some day he would find the way to give their children more of the good things they deserved. But lying here in the night, her last dream bubble burst, she knew that things would never be different with Don. And she knew down in her heart that in spite of all she had said about telling Dr. Pribble a thing or two, he would do nothing?nothing. And they would be moving again. Eileen reached beneath the pillow for her kerchief.
EARLY next evening, Eileen glanced out the window to see if Jackie was keeping the baby bundled. Dr. Pribble was coming up the path, coming for April's rent that he had forgotten to ask about. When it had been a payment on the house, Eileen had been more than glad to have that much put away, but now?he couldn't have it. It would be one way to get a little for those hours of work and backache, for fixing up the place so he could get a cash deal. "Don, here comes Dr. Pribble. Now get ready, and don't you give him a penny or I'll?" He knocked twice, then Eileen opened the door. She did not smile a welcome but looked squarely and a little hard into his black eyes behind their bushy, black eyebrows. "Mr. Whiting, may I have the check for April's rent? It is a little past due, I believe." "Yes, it is," said Don, "but you see we are just a little surprised about your change of mind. We've spent quite a bit of money here, thinking the place would be ours?and?well, we wondered if you could allow us something for what we've done?" "I feel that I cannot. You did this of your own choice, Mr. Whiting." "But you get the benefit in increased value. We put in a lot of time and money on this place." "Nevertheless, I feel that I cannot allow you cash. I did not ask you to do it, Mr. Whiting. I wouldn't like to put the matter in the hands of a lawyer, you know." "Very well, Dr. Pribble, if you're sure that's the way you want it. You're a good business man and know what you can do." Don drew his check-book from his pocket and made out the check. Dr. Pribble glanced at Mrs. Whiting, and he could see bitter resentment rising within her firm little body like the quills of a porcupine. His overgrown adam's apple jumped a cog, and he bowed himself out with, "Thank you, Mr. Whiting. Perhaps I may be able to help you locate another place." Don worked steadily making letters on the back of his check-book, because he did not want to look into those darkening eyes and upset her further. "Oh, you!" She flung anger in his face, while tears of humiliation and indignation filled her eyes. "You aren't really going to let him get the best of you are you, Don? Won't you stop payment on that check? You aren't honestly??" "Guess we better, Eileen. We've got a long while to live in this old world with Dr. Pribble. We don't want to have trouble, do we? Maybe yet?" "Trouble, my foot! We have all the trouble. Let him have some for a change! I tell you I won't move again. He'll have to drag me out. Isn't there something you can do about it?" She flung the door wide and stepped out into the early evening. "Oh, come on, Don. It's getting late. I'll go with you to milk Susanna. We might as well decide here and now, once and for all, about this Pribble proposition. A lawyer!