[Vol27 | April 1940 | Sequence: 27 | Category: Article | Title: Eternal' Spring Lorine Lee]
spring night, hung her worn fur coat on its own hanger in the far end of the clothes closet and stepped up to the warm fireplace where Don sat thinking. In the high altitude of the Wasatch Mountains, evenings were cool in spite of the springtime, but Eileen didn't mind the cold. She was glad they had a home here in this beautiful valley, and there was warmth in her heart for the calmness and peace and security she felt with Don. He looked up steadily at his wife as she came in?one of those precise, highly ambitious little women who would have arranged the stars in rows and marched them up and down the heavens?and wondered what her reaction to his words would be. "I've some good news for you, Eileen," he greeted in his calm, tactful way. ""We won't have to do any more fixing about this place. The Doctor was here to tell us that he is bargaining with another party for cash." Don stood up quickly and laid his hand across her shoulders. "I hope you won't mind too much, dear." "What? Mind? Why of all the sophisticated nerve! Just you wait till I get a chance to tell him whose place this is. I'll tell him to go? to go?" "To go climb a tree,' Don supplied. "Don't get all fussed up, Eileen. After all?" "Why that deceitful, mean, old, mean, old?" "Man," said Don, a hint of an amused smile hesitating on his face. Don was always slopping over with generosity, because he believed that kindness and calmness would whittle any trouble down to man size and put a good deal more fun into living. "The idea of his pulling a stunt like that. He can't do it! Why he promised us a year to make that down payment if we'd take this place, Don, and all the rent we've been paying was supposed to be going on the purchase price. Why didn't you tell him what he promised us? That we believed him? Why didn't you tell him what we've done to this place?" "Eileen, listen. Put on the brakes. We can move again, we've done it before," Don said with quiet confidence, that inevitable piece of paper and pencil coming from his pocket. "You're telling me?" Eileen snapped. Don very thoughtfully made O's and A's on the eight-dollar-and-fifty-cent reminder from the M. & L. Coal Co. To relieve a tense atmosphere, Don always made O's and A's on pieces of folded paper or envelope backs. "I suppose if he can get a good cash price?well, if we were in his shoes maybe we'd want to do the same thing, Eileen." "You wouldn't, Don Whiting, and you know it. If you promised, you'd stick to it. What did he say anyway? Didn't he?" "Just said he's trying to sell the old home place because he can get cash, and all we can do is make payments. Can't blame him much, really."
230
Eileen trembled with' uncontrollable resentment. Don was altogether too patient and tolerant and understanding. And Dr. Pribble couldn't do this to them. He had promised he would let them have the home. She wouldn't move again. She liked this renovated old home with its place for a cow, chickens, garden and a lot of outdoors for three growing