Vol. IX OCTOBER, 1922 No. 10 

CONTENTS 


Page

Cyrus E. Dallin Frontispiece
Mutual Appreciation Lula Greene Richards 503
Dallin's Gift of Massassoit to Utah Alice Merrill Horne 505
Interview with Mrs. Thomas Dallin Alice L. Reynolds 510
Law Enforcement Milton Bennion 512
"Aunt Bine" Myron E. Crandall, Jr. 513
Woman's Privilege Ruth Savage Hilton 515
Leisure 518
Home Economics Jeannette A. Hyde 520
The Last Service Annie D. Palmer 523
Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman 526
Attune Your Hearts Mrs. Ida R. Alldredge 532
A Twisted Holiday Lila Little Hicken 533
The General Procession James H. Anderson 538
Alone Bertha Roberts 541
Editorial, The Need of the Hour 542
Guide Lessons for December 544

PUBLICATION INFORMATION

Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Room 29 Bishop's Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah
$1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c
Canada and Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15c Single Copy
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah

ADVERTISEMENTS

The Utah State National Bank

The officers are always glad to meet customers and discuss business plans with them.

Officers
Heber J. Grant, President
Anthony W. Ivins, Vice-President
Charles W. Nibley, Vice-President
Chas. S. Burton, Vice-President
Henry T. McEwan, V.-Pres. & Cashier
Alvin C. Strone, Assistant Cashier
John W. James, Asst. Cashier

Mention Relief Society Magazine


Guaranteed L. D. S. Garments FOR LESS MONEY

150—Light Weight Bleached Cotton Flat Weave $1.95
401 or 104—Light weight unbleached cotton Ribbed $1.95
511—Heavy unbleached Cotton $1.95
911—Extra heavy unbleached Cotton $2.20
911—Extra heavy bleached Cotton $2.25
635—Medium weight part Wool $3.00
845—Heavy weight all Wool $4.50
601—Lisle Garments $2.00
204—Mercerized Lisle $3.00

We advocate unbleached Garments, for men such numbers as 901, 511 and 911
Postage paid in U. S.; Canada and Mexico, 10c Additional
Garments marked for 25c per pair
Double back and extra sizes over size 46 10% extra
Be sure to state size

THE RELIABLE (MAIL ORDER DEPT.)
1069 E. 21st South
Salt Lake, Utah


BURIAL CLOTHES

Relief Society first to recognize the need of meeting the reduction of high prices

Call at our Burial Clothes Department
23 Bishop's Building
Prompt attention given all out of town orders

TEMPLE SUITS MADE TO ORDER

Salt Lake City, Utah
Phone Wasatch 3286

Mention Relief Society Magazine


Music Magnetizes the Home

The Columbia Grafonola is the only phonograph which has the non-set automatic stop.

$100.00 For this Beauty
Take 15 Months to Pay

50,000.00 OLDER THAN THE STATE of Utah

 Mention Relief Society Magazine Mutual Appreciation By L. Lula Greene Richards If I have done you good, dear friend, In this I take delight, The kindly thanks wh-ch you extend, Are more than jewels bright. Yes, more to me than wealth or fame, Or worldly honors great; That in your prayers you breathe my name, I more appreciate. Ghee pemenh ean Tawa Ut W. M. McCONAHAY The Reliable Jeweler McConahay, the jeweler carries the latest styles in engagement and wedding rings. Consult him at 64 So. Main Street before going elsewhere. When Shopping Mention Relief Society Magasine Lillian Wirth Maternity Home A most desirable place for maternity cases. All comforts of home, and most conscientious work guaranteed, plus reasonable rates Call Hyland 606 for information Phone Was. 1828 1820 South 5th East Salt Lake City, Utah Salt Lake City, Utah Guaranteed lL. D. S. Garments FOR. LESS MONEY 150—Light Weight Bleached Cotton Flat Weave......-.. Seseseee 401 or 104—Light weight bleached Ribbed........-s+0e; 50 The Utah State |::-qiteshin'weisni' nibiensiied | otto Non. E ee eee ss oe 1,80 0 k 011 eam weight bleached Cotal ON. Oceeeeses eee see National Ban s11iitays welsh" nsciied Otton......6++20s255 7) eee e The officers are always ME fficers 204—Mercerized Lisle oa" Qi 3.00 Hener J. Grant, President. We advocate unbleache arments, 5 s. 1 Cuas. S. Burton, Vice-President. Aetice. A Adaitional. Garments: marke or c per pa Te ee x, Asst. Cashier. Size. Temple Block "#8 "Asi er THE RELIABLE alae MATL OFF eT RUIN py SO THESE LABELS ASSURE YOU — 7) Z. C. M. I. FACTORY MADE ¥ Shoes and Overalls Are built in a factory that has been rejuvenated with modern machinery. Help the movement for Inter-meuntain development. Glad to meet customers and. Discuss business © plans with them. Offi ae W. Ivins, Vice-President Cuartes W. Nistey, Vice-President. Henry T. McEwan, V.-Pres. & Cashier. Arvin C. Stronc, Assistant Cashier. Oa hae heavy unbleached Cot- _ 911—Extra heavy bleached Cotton 2.25 2.25 g35—Medium weet i weet, an 601—Lisle Garments.....+ess-+e05 2.00 ie men such numbers as 901, 511 and Postage paid in U. S.; Canada and Double back and extra sizes over size 46 10% extra. Be sure to state Mutual Appreciation By L. Lula Greene Richards If I have done you good, dear friend, In this I take delight, The kindly thanks wh'ch you extend, Are more than jewels bright. Yes, more to me than wealth or fame, Or worldly honors great; That in your prayers you breathe my name, I more appreciate. To be remembered in the prayer Of one who loves the Lord, For helpful words or friendly care, I deem a rich reward. I shall remember you, likewise, Before our Father's throne, Thus aided, each may' gain a prize, One might not reach alone. The bond of pure jand generous love, Which brings true happiness, And lifis the heart such pangs above As selfish wants express— The standard which our Savior raised When rightly understood, Helps each to utter, "God be praised If I have done you good." THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. IX OCTOBER, 1922 No. 10 Dallin's Gift of Massasoit to Utah Alice Merrill Horne As a token of love for his native state, Cyrus E. Dallin, has recently set up, under the great high dome of the State Capitol Building a replica of his bronze sculpure of Massasoit, which stands overlooking Plymouth Rock, forever guarding the destinies of the Plymouth Colony. Who is this _Massasoit? Chief of the Wampanoags—a mighty Indian nation; a sachem, whose dominion extended from Cape Cod to Narragansett Bay, at the time when the Mayflower first appeared on the horizon of the Atlantic, tacking over beautiful Massachusetts Bay to tarry and disembark in the Plymouth Harbor. The old world Pilgrims in that new world adventure, establishing the first enduring colony on New England shores, for freedom of conscience' sake, first planted the r feet on what is now known as Plymouth Rock which, 'n the hearts of a grateful people, has come to be a sacred rock, and over it has been erected a protecting canopy of grante. And because Plymouth Rock enshrines a principle more enduring than any stone, even the principle of individual liberty, "freedom of conscience" has become the touchstone of these whole United States. Had the Mayflower taken back its passengers, had the little colony been wiped out, America might not today, be the land of liberty. Chief Massasoit it was who pro'ected and saved the colony in its days of greatest peril. That is why a grateful people have forever linked the form and name of Massasoit wth the sacred Pilgrim Rock. We marvel at the manner in which destiny prepared Massasoit and his tribe for the service they rendered. One year before the episode of the Plymouth Rock, the proud, cruel, and treacherous Wampanoags numbered thirty thousand Indians. An epidemic of fever reduced them to a tribe of but three hundred, soft- State Capitol TWO VIEWS OF DALLIN'S MASSASSOIT DALLIN'S GIFT TO UTAH _ -§07 ening them by the dreadful chastisement When the Pilgrims were in the midst of home building and house making, Massasoit, with sixty braves, all painted and dressed in battle array, suddenly appeared before the astonished newcomers, with proffers of friendship and proposals of ja peace treaty for mutual protection. The treaty was made. Governor John Carver, for the colonists, and Chief Massasoit, on the part of the Wampanoags, (after smoking the "Peace Pipe"), signed the "scrap of paper" that was kept inviolate by Redman as well as Paleface for over half a century. Massasoit lived past his eightieth year. His days were full of good, gracious acts. He opened his wigwam to Roger Williams and all patriot fugitives, who suffered banishment into New England's wilds by the hand of bigotry which, for a brief period, swayed the governing powers of the New England Colony. Massasoit, historians tell us, was just, humane, honest, "grave of countenance, spare of speech, a portly man in his best days; a man who sought to imbue his tribesmen with ideals of peace." And Dallin has portrayed him as such in this statue of Massasoit. It was entirely fitting that the good people of Massachusetts, knowing well Dallin's sympathy for the Indian, commissioned him to undertake this enduring bronze statue, to overlook Plymouth Rock, amid native shrubs, under the blue dome of the New England sky. A spot that henceforth, Utahns will hunt out whenever they turn their faces toward New England shores. For they will desire to draw a comparison between the Massasoit, in his native surroundings, and the Massasoit modeled in plaster. Massasoit is a noble rendition of the noble type of Indian, a masterpiece, conceived in sincerity, combining grace of design, and virility of style with abundant amplitude in handling. The figure is in heroic proportions, standing fully nine feet, three inches in height. There is no point of view from which beauty of line and of grace, and true Indian character is not revealed. The views from the south and east sides are perhaps the most wonderful. It has been said that no good sculpture will be harmed by rolling down hill, meaning that obtruding parts will be broken off, leaving the simple lines. The views from the points I have mentioned, show the whole figure knit together in one simple mass that makes a perfect sculptural rendition. | Massasoit stands firmly, but oh, so lightly on his feet. There is repose, which means that he might be on the point of running or starting off. The whole sculpture breathes a fresh impulse; reveals a persuasive and convincing figure. Massasoit makes a mute appeal to a sympathetic understanding of the Indian. A native man—yes, Dallin has expressed it. Let us get acquainted with our Massasoit. Visit him often! He will teach us, will purify pur ideals of art, 508 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE will enrich our impulses, and help us to understand our sculptor, Dallin. HOW WE CAME BY THE GIFT To the Commercial Club of Salt Lake City, we are indebted for this gift, for they suggested to His Excellency Govenor Mabey, that Dallin be asked this boon for the state; Dallin acquiesced, shipped from Boston the statue, and with his wife and two of his three sons, set out by auto to place the sculpture in the Capitol and make the presentation on the last day of July, 1922. This so-called replica of the bronze Massasoit, is, in truth, the original Massasoit. For this very sculpture is the clay model that emerged from Dallin's hands out of the shaft of clay set up in his studio. From this modeled figure the mould was made, and in that mould the bronze was poured to make the bronze cast which marks Plymouth Rock. This gift is not of enduring material. One month's rigor of winter weather would crumble it back into clay but, sheltered under the great dome of the capitol, it will last indefinitely. The gift means more to Utah, if we will but study it, than anything that has come to us for art's sake. In my opinion, it is the better rendition, (if not so enduring) of the grand old sachem. There is a certain elusive, indefinable quality in clay-modeled sculpture that is nearly always lost in the transition from the plastic medium to the more enduring, harder material of either bronze or marble. It is so in this clay Massasoit which has a softness, a subtle charm, a personality, a sweetness of presence, which impels one to contemplate with a worshipful heart. MASSASOIT'S UNVEILING A concourse of art lovers came together at four o'clock July 31, to witness the unveiling. In the simple presentation by Mr. Dallin he said, "I am going to get close to you today. In my heart are many mixed emotions, but foremost in my soul is my Happiness in presenting this gift to my home state. I am glad that you thought well enough of my work to ask for it, and J want you to accept this gift as a token of my love for my native state of Utah, and my love, too, for the poor Indian. I want it to express my gratitude, my admiration, my passion for him, the friend of my youthful days in and around Springville. He it was who taught me the first art I knew and which I have tr: ed to express. For what success I have won, the Indian deserves great credit. I wish I had done better, that I might the better show my gratitude for the life-long inspiration he has been to me. DALLIN'S GIFT TO UTAH 509 "The Governor has spoken of my home coming. It is well. These everlasting hills, in the shadow of which I was 'born. And reared, touch me far more than I can express. Whenever I come into their presence, I am constrained to weep. These mountains are linked with the story of the Indian. "In setting up this man of peace, who saved the Plymouth Colony, I have a hope, a wish revived from my memory, that 1 might model the old Chief Washakie, of the Shoshones, who, too, was a man of peace; and he wielded as potent and saving an influence over the first Pioneers, 'a thousand miles from nowhere,' as ever did Massasoit over the Pilgrims. May I hope that, at some future time, I shall be privileged to set up among these hills the Washakie I enshrine in the heart of my boyhood memories, to guard the destiny of this people." As Cyrus E. Dallin turned to unveil Massasoit, those present were firm in the resolution that Washakie, too, should some day emerge from a shaft of clay tinder this Utah sculptor's hands, being moved by the events which marked the unveiling, to feel the need of the Pioneer peace patron, Washakie, to guard this people. For might not we, thereby, reap a realization of a greater, grander destiny? There was not a dry eye, when the Stars and Stripes fell away revealing this, the Indian Massasoit. Those present had slipped back with Dallin, under the old spell of Indian romance and Indian lore, both of which have so strangely and so persistently swayed the life work of Cyrus E. Dallin. THE TEMPLE OF TREES Antony Anderson Would'st find a balm more sweet than gift of tears, Thou who art bruised by stress of sordid things, The dull routine, the thwarted hope that stings, The cold ingratitude that numbs and sears? Go forth and comfort thee where now the year's Cathedral aisles are dim. The thrush here sings 'A golden psalm of joy; the bluebell swings Its frail and fluted censers. Cast thy fears And loose the bonds that anchor thee to Care; For here the light so gently falls, it seems A: gracious benediction after prayer— By mystic murmurs from her hidden streams, By violets strewn where paths are trodden bare, Thou knowest the wood will not deny thy dreams! —From Laguna Life. Interview with Mrs. Thomas Dallin Mother of the Sculptor Alice L. Reynolds In the summer of 1915, Cyrus E. Dallin, the well known American sculptor, came to Utah to visit with his mother, whose eightieth birthday anniversary occurred during the year. Shortly after her birthday I paid her a visit. She sat knitting lace, without glasses, and when I suggested that that was a very unusual thing for a woman of her age to do, she replied that she had received her second sight. © I immediately put some questions to her concerning her very gifted son, and from her obtained the following account of his boyhood activities. I shall give the substance of the interview, and, whenever possible, the language: She said, "We were poor, and had to work very hard, and scheme in every possible fashion, in order to be able to manage at all. The children had no toys, so I used to take the mountain clay, wet it, and mould it into little chariots and horses and little men and women. After moulding these things I would place them in the oven to dry, and when dry the children would use them for play-things. "One day my little boy came running in from play, very much excited, because a man was to lecture at the meeting house that very evening about the martyrdom of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and his brother, the patriarch, Hyrum Smith. He asked for ten cents to pay his admission to the lecture. It grieved me very much to tell him that I had no money to give him. He thought for a moment, then he said: 'Mr is clearing out his ditches; perhaps he will pay me ten cents for helping him with the job. Towards sundown he came home with the. Much coveted price of the ticket. "The next day when his brother returned from school for the noon meal, Cyrus was not with him. 'Where is Cyrus?' I inquired, to which he replied, 'Playing in the clay pile." In a few moments Cyrus came with two busts on a little board. The moment I saw them I knew who they were, for I had lived in Nauvoo and was acquainted with the Prophet Joseph and his brother Hyrum. " "See, Mama,' he said, 'these are the men that the man talked about in the meeting last night.' I took the little models from him, placed them in the oven to dry, and afterwards put them up on the shelf. INTERVIEW WITH MRS THOMAS DALLIN 511 "Later in the afternoon Father Dibble, the lecturer, came to my home; as soon as he entered the house he caught sight of the busts, and at once asked, 'Who did them?' I replied, 'My little boy Cyrus,' and he responded, 'He has a future before him as asculptor.' Some time after, the child modeled a bust of Fanny Sutherland, a playmate and friend to whom he was devoted." He learned his letters from the family cookstove. It was a Charter Oak, as I recall Mrs. Dallin's statement. "He was eager for a book to read from but we had no books. Every cent he could obtain through work or gift he put aside with the thought of purchasing a book. Finally, when he believed he had enough money to buy the book he walked to Provo to obtain it. He was greatly disappointed when he learned that the price of the book exceeded his savings. However, the man in the book store, realizing how far the little fellow had trudged in order to obtain the book, let him have it for the amount he was able to pay. On his way home he peeped into it, just to catch a glimpse of the mysterious inky characters embedded in its white pages, for to him a book was a thing almost sacred." When he first saw the Indian he was attracted to him because of the brilliance of color to be seen in his blankets, his beads, and his feathers. One day some big Indian Chiefs in full regalia entered the village. They were magnificent in their buckskin suits, highly colored blankets, and war bonnets of feathers. They entered a tent in which a peace treaty was to be signed with the white man. The boy who was destined to portray them in bronze and marble was a little ragged urchin at that time. He threw himself down between the rows of corn, and as the tent door flapped back and forth witnessed the ceremony which made a deep impression on his mind. Afterwards, when a student in Paris, he made a cast of what he saw that day. So stccessful was the piece of work that it was placed in the Salon exhibit. "He was passionately fond of nature even as a chld. He loved to pick the wild flowers, and nothing gave him greater delight than to gather bunches of flowers and bring them to me," said the mother. 'Things he noticed in his walks, that he thought pretty, he would pick up and bring home. He was fond of the mountains; he watched their various changes, and frequently called, "O, Mother, come and look at the mountains." At this point in our conversation Mrs. Dallin left the room, soon returning with a photograph of herself and the sculptor. There they stood—the dear old mother snow crowned with the flight of eighty summers; at her side her son. They were looking intently and with admiration at the mountains in the east—someone had caught them in the kodak. Law Enforcement Milton Bennion The stability of any government is in large measure dependent upon the respect of the citizens for its constitution and laws. Widespread disregard for laws regularly enacted under constitutional authority indicates an approaching state of anarchy. American citizens who cultivate such disregard for any law ought to be mindful of the scripture which says, "Whatsoever a man soweth, 'that shall he also reap." This applies to communities with as much force as it applies to individuals. For individuals to take it upon themselves to decide what laws they will obey and what laws they will defy is equivalent to having no laws, which is anarchy. If the rich man may defy the prohibition law to satisfy his appetite for a dangerous luxury, may not the poor man have equal right to defy any other law that stands in the way of his enjoying the comforts of life? Some of the laws protecting property rights may be just as odious to the latter as is prohibition or the liquor traffic to the former. The popular notion that some laws interfere with individual freedom is a relic of eighteenth century philosophy. In the light of current philosophy and the socialized conscience of today this confusion of license with liberty is thoroughly antiquated. No man has a right to indulge in pleasures that in any way jeopardize the welfare of society. The prohibition, anti-gambling, and anti-tobacco laws have been enacted primarily as a safeguard to youth. Can anyone deny that these laws, strictly enforced and backed by the unwavering support of all citizens, would be a benefit to immature and imperfectly formed characters? Yet many citizens thoughtlessly remark that these laws are not popular and cannot be enforced. What are they doing to help enforce them? Generally, nothing. Is a good American one who is swayed to and fro by whatever happens to be popular? Or is he one who judges questions on their merits and stands firmly beh? Nd principles? The Eighteenth Amendment to the federal constitution represents the judgment of the American people when they were thinking seriously of the welfare of America and of the world, and when they were willing to restrain selfish des'res in the public interest. Shall we allow an "after-the-war" slump of patriotism to throw us into a state of lawlessness, or to lead us to think of reviving a system that has caused wholesale misery in families and moral degeneracy in youth? It is for each adult citizen to think on these things; but let him think soberly and let his judgment be a real moral judgment. -_LAW ENFORCEMENT 513 Are these laws right in principle? Will general obedience to them result in good? If these questions can be answered in the affirmative, then it is the duty of every citizen, with faith and courage, to do his best to see that the laws are enforced. Were there no statutory law forbidding' or restraining gambling, the use of intoxicants and tobacco, it would still be well worth-while for every youth to obey the moral Jaw upon which the statutory law. Is founded. Only in this way can he acquire freedom, the highest character, and greatest usefulness. Moral freedom is the result of obedience to moral law. It can be attained in on other way. The license to selfdestruction which opponents of the law crave, is really the road to bondage. "Ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free." Next month, citizens will have a chance to vote for county sheriff and county attorney. See that the men elected are strictly honest, that they are vigorous supporters of the laws, and that they have the courage to enforce them. If they conform to these requirements, why should anyone be concerned as to whether they are Democrats or Republicans? Legislators are also to be elected. See that they are citizens of strong character and clear vision. Let there be no backward step in legislation. "Aunt Bine"' Myron E, Crandall, Jr. Close by the village highway I have a dear old friend; The graces of the Master In her life seem to blend. She works gmong her flowers The happy live-long day; From out her cozy bowers I hear her proudly say: "Oh, come into my garden Where dainty blossoms blow, And see the radiant beauty Of tulips in a row: The wind-flower and the violet, The pansies in the grass, Some blue and brown and scarlet, All greet you as you pass: The tiger lilies blending In sunshine and in storm: The lily white betokens Purity and peace; 514 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ae It lifts our thought to heaven Where cares and sorrows cease: The blood red rose in splendor Bespeaks of fondest love, Impassioned deep yet tender, As true as stars above: The dainty little daisies So full of modest grace, Call forth our warmest praises; They have their hallowed place." And so, each day you'll find her Working 'mong her flowers; They seem to strangely bind her Through all the waking hours. She knows their wondrous language; Their faces she can read. No modulating accents, Their looks bespeak their need; When she is gone they'll miss her, This friend so good and true; They'll fade away and wither; Oh, how we'll miss her, too. She works among the flowers That they might gladden all, And in God's heavenly garden She'll work when he doth call: She's trained God's precious children In righteousness to grow; She's tended long and willing His gardens here below. Note: "Aunt Bine" Alleman, of the Second ward of Springville, was for many years president of the Relief Society. In her earlier days she was president of the Primary. Her whole life, from the trying pioneer times down in Dixie, to the present, has been spent inj the service of the Church, working for the salvation of God's children. Her husband died a number of years ago. Her only daughter, Mrs. Ida H. Taylor, is in far off New Zea'and with her husband, George H. Taylor, who is president of the mission. Mrs. Taylor is also serving in this mission in the capacity of president of the Relief Societies there. "Aunt Bine's" home is situated on the main highway in the center of town. From the time of the budding of the little crocuses in the early spring until the tiny snowdrops come in the winter, her place is one mass of bloom and beauty. It attracts the attention of the tourist, and is the admiration of every passer-by. Among the fragrant blossoms and gorgeous splendor she finds the solace and comfort of her declining years. The poem was read on her seventy-sixth birthday at a party given in her honor by the Relief Society. Her ful] name is Sabina, but the whole town calls her "Aunt Bine,": Woman's Privilege Ruth Savage Hilton "Have you called on the new-comers at the Jackson Place?" cheerily called Mrs. Jones, as she peered over the back fence of her neighbor's yard. "Yes," returned Mrs. Smith, rather abruptly. For years Mrs. Smith had prided herself on being the first to call on strangers. "T hear the lady is awfully nice," the cheery voice called again, "O, I don't know, just different. She has really seen things; been to school; and traveled all over the earth; never lived in a small town before." "Strange they would come here." "The lady likes the freedom of the country," Mrs. Smith returned knowingly. "Anyhow, she and I are going to be good friends, I trow." Mrs. Smith started for the house, but stopped on the back porch to add significantly, "I've already got an invitation to an afternoon luncheon at her home. That's a fine old place they have bought you know." This bit of gossip floated in to Emily through the open window of her study. "Just the thing I've been hoping for," she exclaimed, and sprang to her feet with all the glad enthusiasm of her twenty years. Throwing down her pencil and scattering papers all over the table, she ran from the house, round the corner, and halted at neighbor Smith's door. Emily smiled whimsically as she waited, "What'll she think?" was her mental question. As a rule Emily did not ask favors of Mrs. Smith, but that time was different from any other. So, after an hour of pleasant chatter, she came home beaming over the promise to be taken by Mrs. Smith to meet the new comer at the Jackson place. * oe "You see, it's this way: For years I've longed to travel abroad," confided Emily to Mrs. Smith, as they walked toward the Jackson place. "I'm sure I could write real stories—maybe books, if I only knew something beside this little town." "O, I see why you want to talk to Mrs. Thornton," Mrs. Smith gave her knowing smile and nodded. "You're right," returned the girl. However, she began to doubt her reasoning when they were comfortably seated and the woman of world-experience was play- 516 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ing the role of beautifully simple country hostess. The big old house was full of the joy of common living. Noisy boys were heard in the hall. The twin girls with a host of playmates dotted the lawn. The mother bent tenderly over a dainty bassinet of white and blue, to smooth the frill of an infant son. "You see, I want a theme or plot for a story," put in Emily ~ when the conversation had drifted to strange scenes and customs. "You write, do you?" observed Mrs. Thornton. "Yes, some—well, it's this way; I've beers longing 'for years to travel so I would have something to write about. So, when I heard of your advantages I wondered if you wouldn't give me a pointer." "A what?" asked Mrs. Thornton puzzled. "O, I mean just some experience full of human interest." "Yes, I see. Well, you know folks are usually interested in life as it is, in people themselves." "Of course, so I've been thinking you might have had some wonderful experience out in the big world, that would give me a theme.'" Mrs. Thornton began rather slowly, "You want some experience of my own?" "Yes," Emily nodded, "something unusual which has helped to make you the lady that you are." "Perhaps," said Mrs. Thornton, "this is about the finest I have known. It has surely helped to make me what Iam. I am sure that among all the things I have known it stands well out in the foreground. But it's rather old-fashioned." Caressingly she reached for the infant in the bassinet of white and blue. Her eyes were full of tenderness. "Yes, old-fashioned, as old as mother Eve. You see, I was possessed with emotions of the average girl of twenty-three. Hence joy was mine when I learned what true love is; knew the glowing thrills of a honeymoon; and then felt the pulse of a new life which would shortly add its tiny strength to the race. Joy that millions have known. But it was vague and uncertain. Not a thought of the revelation which was soon to burst upon my soul, leaving an indelible imprint. "Tt came as a flash, during the calm, dark hours of a summer night. All nature seemed at rest, broken only by the fits of physical torture which was my portion. Torn by anguish until my whole soul cried out—what a price to pay for life—And then—TI lived years in those next few moments. Somehow it seemed, I knew that an immortal spirit, a child of God, was ready to be clothed in mortal clay; ready to take a tabernacle, which if rightly used would exalt it. Surely the veil between tis was very thin. So WOMAN'S PRIVILEGE 517 close I was, it seemed that one could almost feel the clasping union of mortal and immortal. "Then—the wail of a new-born child—I listened with awed rapture. Truly eternity had touched, nay embraced, mortality. A bundle of glory was mine as I pressed the new. Life to my bosom. Having been so low, that I was almost given a glimpse into eternity; and then, returning to the world of normal folks bringing a real, live human soul to guide, to love, to care for. "Later on, as tiny feet have multiplied, and daily tasked have vexed, that flash of light comes back to bring me courage. Surely the sweetest, noblest task of all life's tasks is mine—to be the mother of the souls of men." eS The late afternoon was fast fading into twilight. Mrs. Thorn- - ton's guests reluctantly departed. At home, however, Emily forgot to write a story, but ran into the kitchen, where a trim little woman was busy. "Mother," she cried, as she threw her arms about her and Kissed the sweet, tired face, "Mother, have I ever told you how much I appreciate the life you gave me." A new and shining light came suddenly into the mother's eyes. She looked caressingly into the lustrous eyes of the woman before her, and slowly asked, "Have I ever told you what a privilege was mine to give that life to the world." TRUE CHARITY "T gave a beggar from my little store Of well-earned gold. He spent the shining ore And came again, and yet again, still cold And hungry, as before. "I gave a thought, and through that thought of mine He found himself, the man, supreme, divine! Fed, clothed and crowned with blessings manifold. And now he begs no more." Leisure Someone has attempted recently to make a study of the daily activities of the average ind: vidual and to determine the relative number of hours spent in dull routine in comparison with the number spent in enjoyable living. It is, of course, impossible to chart every activity and arbitrarily label it as boring or fascinating. What is play to one is arduous work to another. Toa certain type of woman a party may be a "hard day of pleasure." The study involves the whole problem of individual differences, and therefore not many definite conclusions can be drawn. It is likewise difficult to determine whether the same activities, such as eating, conversing, or riding on street cars, are on all occasions equally pleasurable. But the person making the study concluded, after careful observation and introspection, that the greater part of the waking day, in the cases of most individuals, is spent in dull and tiresome performances. The average individual spends somewhere near eight hours a day at definite work—and in most cases, with a few exceptions such as creative artists, the work is of necessity, of a routinary and uninspiring nature. Eight hours in jan office— typewriting, reading and dictating letters, filing, or selling merchandise—is, as a rule, fatiguing labor. Eight hours, and usually more, spent in a home washing dishes, cleaning vegetables, dusting rooms, or making bread, often savors of drudgery. At this point it may be suggested that the time occupied by purely automatic tasks may be saved from actual waste by consciously applying the mind in some other field. Poems may be learned, lessons may be planned, or a letter may be thought out, while the hands are performing familiar details. Bibbs, in Booth Tarkington's The Turmoil, while operating a machine in his father's factory, rejoiced in the fact that, although engaged in lowly labor, he could preserve his mental freedom. But allowing eight hours for work, and a similar period for sleep, there still remains another eight hours which may be classified as leisure. It is true that perhaps two or three hours of this time are consumed in dressing, going to and from work, and other details of living. But, as a rule, in every individual's daily life, there are several hours of time at his disposal; time that he may devote to his personal pursuits. The reward of diversion and rest at the end of the day makes the machine-like processes of the working period tolerable. It is these hours of LEISURE 519 recreation, of pleasurable living, that makes the daily routine and toil endurable. This is a natural and perfectly proper attitude. The body is fatigued and a change of activity is, physiologically, necessary. The nerves and muscles, that have been at work earning a livelihood, or maintaining a home, demand a rest. The mind and spirit demand a reprieve from irksome and deadening routine, and seek a new and more satisfying expression. Leisure, then, should be spent so as to give the body the rest it needs, and should at the same time be pleasurable; that is, it should give the whole being the sense of "living." To a person whose work requires physical exertion, the needed rest might be an evening spent in reading or in attending a theater. If a person has spent several hours in an office, some physical activity, such as an outdoor game, some household tasks, or a long walk, may in reality be a "rest." The recreation should be of such a nature that the powers employed and worn out during the day may be actually given an opportunity to be recreated. The selection of pastimes for the leisure hours should be studied, not only with the view of resting the body, but also with the purpose of determining what will be pleasurable. It must be rememberd, too, that one's taste for pleasures can be cultivated, and that pleasure, in the sense here used, should not Be confused with mere ga'ety or frivolity. Pleasure, to one, may be the thrill of doing a piece of creative work; to another it may be the joy of writing a cheery letter to a troubled friend. It may be the mental vigor that a well written book may inspire. It may be the peaceful satisfaction that accompanies an unselfish act. It may be the calm that attends a victor who has conquered his unruly spirit. It is not difficult to distinguish between ephemeral gaieties and the lasting pleasures of Ife; nor is it, to those who have experienced both, difficult to measure their relative worth. The real problem of leisure, of full and pleasurable living, is that of proper cultivation. A taste for reading can be acquired only by establishing the habit. The Scriptures offer no 'nspiration to those who never read the pages of holy writ. A symphony by Mozart is not appreciated, nor does it touch the soul of one accustomed to "popular" music. A walk on the hills has no appeal to a preoccupied "flapper." Because such tastes can be cultivated, there is perhaps no better index to a person's character, his tendencies, and his potentialities, than the manner in which he makes use of his leisure. The excessive moving picture "fan," the street corner loafer, the nightly "jazz" crowds, and the eternal front porch idlers, all reveal their mental levels. They are expressing their idea of "living." Home Economics By Jeannette A, Hyde Ripe Cucumber Pickles 12 large ripe cucumbers. 1 qt. Small onions. 1 bunch dil. Y% cup mixed spices. 1 horse radish root. Vinegar. Peel, cut cucumbers in halves lengthwise, scrape pulp and seeds with silver spoon, cut dice-sized pieces. Peel onions, sprinkle with salt, let stand. Put cucumbers in salt water 5 hours, 1 cup salt to 8 cups water. To every gallon of water allow 1 tbsp. Mustard.. Place in jars alternate layers of cucumbers, onions, dill, spices, and 'horse radish. Put in equal parts of water and vinegar. Cover and let stand. Dill Pickled Beans 1 pk. Wax or green beans. 4 qts. Water. 1 cup salt. 2 large stalks dill. 4% oz. Black pepper corns. 6 bay leaves. 6 grape or cherry leaves., 1 cup vinegar. Pour boiled beans in salt water, 1 tsp. Salt to 1 qt. Boiling water. Drain and pack in jars. Add pepper corns, repeat unt] all ingredients have been used. Summer Dill Pickles 100 pickles. 6 stalks dill. 1 oz. Black pepper corns. 1 cup vinegar. Grape leaves. 4 gal. Water. 1 cup salt. HOME SCIENCE DEPARTMENT 52) Soak pickles 12 hours in cold water. Drain aud dry. Put 2 layers pickles and 3 or 4 blossom ends of dill, 1 tsp. Witote or grape leaves. To 4 qts. Water, use 1 cup salt. Boil and cool. Pour over pickles to cover. Weight and cover. Let stand 1 week. Then add 1 cup vinegar. Rinse off scum every day from cloth in warn weather. Twice in cold. Put in cool and dry place. Boiled Beets 1 qt. Cold boiled beets, sliced. 1 tsp. Salt. 1 tsp. Caroway seed. Ym tsp. Pepper. 1 pt. Vinegar. Mix and put ingredients on beets. Cucumber Appetizer Peel large firm cucumber. Cut into thick slices. Scoop out center with cutter, leaving only rind. Put each piece on. Thick slice of tomato. Fill center with cold chopped fish, vegetables or ition: parsley. French Fruit Dressing 1-3 cup salad oil. 1% tbsp. Lemon juice. YR tbsp. Salt. ¥% tbsp. Melted currant jelly or honey. Few grains paprika. First combine the ingredients, then beat well and serve with any fruit salad. Broiled Fish with Sauce 114: Ibs. Fish. 4 hard cooked whites of eggs, chop whites. 4 hard cooked yolks of eggs. 1 tbsp. Capers or pickled nasturtium seeds. 1 tbsp. Pickles, finely chopped. 1 tbsp. Onion, finely chopped. 1 tsp. Mustard. % cup mayonnaise dressing. 1 tbsp. Catsup. 'l tbsp. Powdered sugar. 1 tbsp. Vinegar. 1 tsp. Chopped parsley. 1 cup strained fish liquid. Ber. Mix with mayonnaise dressing. Repeat until all are used. Cover top with cherry leaves Decorate w-th chopped 522 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Mash egg yolks with mustard and oil. Add all but chopped ingredients, which should be put in last. Season to taste. The following recipe was furnished by Mrs. Doris Jenkins, Oakley, Idaho. Mrs. Jenkins vouches for the perfection of the corn if put up this way: 9 cups of corn. 1 cup of sugar. Y% cup salt. Cut corn from cob, and salt and sugar, place in jars and boil 30 minutes. Seal air tight. BOOK NOTICE Columbus, Westward Ho! By Alice Merrill Horne, which has been published recently, has attracted considerable attention among local literary people. The author, in her play, has humanized Columbus. The skeleton of the daring explorer has been taken from the dead pages of history and has been transformed to a living, vital, and appealing figure. The reader is made to understand and sympathize with the human Columbus, and to experience with him his burning ambitions, his undaunted hopes, his passionate love for the sea, and his unbroken faith in his great mission. The play is in two acts, with a prologue and an epilogue. The scene in the prologue, where the boy Columbus finally prevails upon his father and mother tto allow him to go to sea, is particularly touching. Every mother who has had a son plead for permission to forsake his home, and answer Ambition's call, will read the lines with an understanding heart. The incidents in all of the scenes are skilfully arranged and each one culminates in a striking and dramatic climax. The career of Columbus, accurate in historical detail, is made a vivid and moving story, and his triumphs and defeats are graphically told in convincing and beautiful English. The volume offers a pleasant evening's reading, and will undoubtedly become familiar to the public through the printed page. However, a presentation of it on the stage, even with simple settings and costumes, would unquestionably be delightful and effective. The charm of the book is enhanced by several distinctive il-' lustrations by Florence Ware, a local artist. Several prominent men of the state have discovered with pleasure that they have been included in the verses which accompany tthe dedication of the book—"To Boys on Discovery Bent." Published by Deseret News Press. On sale at Deseret Book Co., $1.75, cloth; $3.00, leather; postage 10c extra. The Last Service Annie D. Palmer "Get whatever is needed, and lay my wife away as nice as you can. Nothing is too good for her. Brother Taylor will let you have it on account."' The sentence was spolzen in hoarse whispers, "See that she is clothed right." "Yes," answered the kind Relief Society woman, "We will see that she is clothed right." The man turned sadly away. The Rel'ef Society woman with tear-dimmed eyes, looked upon the peaceful countenance of the dead. Two little girls stole quietly in and stood beside her. Their gingham aprons were faded and torn. Their shoes were past repairing. True to the principles of real helpfulness, the woman began to size up the situation, with a view of doing the right thing in the case. She saw the bed from which the lifeless form had been lifted. It was covered with a quilt that was ragged. The home-made carpet on the floor was patched in several places with worn out overalls; and in one place with a piece of burlap. The furniture was rickety, the curtains were tattered. Poverty showed everywhere, grim and haunting. "Do you think Mrs. Senior will make the dress?" It was Mrs. Long who spoke. She had slipped into the room noiselessly only a moment before. The Relief Society worker did not answer. She was not thinking of the dress. Mrs. Long repeated the question: "Do you th'nk Mrs. Senior will make the dress?" I saw one she made for Mrs. Lawrence—really the most beautiful thing [ ever saw! The most wonderful silk, the softest shirrings and frills,—" "What did Mrs. Lawrence's dress cost?" "Oh, I don't know. One hates to think of cost in connection wi. H the dead. When we think that it is the last thing we shall ever do for Juliet—" Mrs. Long broke down in sobs. Juliet was her only sisver, nearly her own age. They had played together as children; they had almost lived together since they were grown. Their husbands were l'ke brothers, their children like one family. "But it isn't the last thing we shall do." The visitor spoke firmly. The sobbing sister raised her head. "Well, all but the flowers, and—" "No, my dear, you are wrong. There is more to do for her 524 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE now than ever. Here are her children, we must care for them. They must grow up to honor her name in the earth. There is her husband, he must be given the encouragment she used to give, must be helped to live worthy of her. Some time there wll be special temple rites for both of them. You may be permitted to participate in holy ordinances for her. These are the important things. I am inclined to think that the quality of the material with which we clothe our dead is as unimportant as is that which we wear in life. Shall we not buy an inexpensive fabric from which to make her temple robe and dress? We can get shoes for the children for the difference in price." The Relief Society worker put her arm tenderly about the shoulders of Mrs. Long as the latter answered: "My sister would say 'yes.' She certainly would say, 'yes'." A week later they all sat at dinner in Mrs. Long's modest dining room, when a letter was brought in for the bereaved husband. Mechanically he read the note and passed it to his sisterin-law. It was the undertaker's bill, and included a positive request that a substantial payment be made at once, in accordance with the business policy of the house. Four months ago the man would never have passed a note like that to any woman; but the long days and ted: ous nights of watching by the side of his suffering wife had unrterved him. He knew that some time—that soon, he must get his bearings and again take up the burden of life; but just now he was in that hopeless lull that often follows a terrific storm. He looked helplessly at Mrs. Long while she read. "Thank the Lord for the Relief Soc'ety," the woman said as she finished reading. "I have felt that we must certainly send back to them the small bag of quarter dollars they sent instead of flowers. Now I see that you must use it to pay on this bill, and so keep good your credit until you can go back to work. Come, - let us count the coins together." They counted the quarters for the first time, nearly two hundred of them, and as they did so they thought of the few withered flowers now dying on the new-made grave. The money represented other flowers that Juliet's friends would have purchased had the Relef Society woman not asked them to give quarters instead. The money was all returned later to be used in some other emergency; and the family had learned its lesson. Death is not the end. Funeral services are not the last services we can render. The tragedy of flowers and expensive funerals -is being enacied over and over again. In our sympathy and love we think THE LAST SERVICE 225 of this old and beautiful means of expression; and we use it sometimes for people who are in need of bread. Were it not more fitting in the case of parents, that we provide for them comfortably and care for them tenderly while they live; and that we see to it that their names are honored through our lives when they are gone? Were it not wiser when a loved companion departs, that we g: ve more consideration to those who are to continue the struggle of life, to whom privation is often 2 serious handicap? Even in the hearts of the well-to-do, would not a simple, soulful service for the dead, be more satisfying than the extravagant display which sometimes marks the occasion as one of vanity? Not by the words they say, And not by the flowers they strew, Shall a place, on the Judgment Day, Be awarded me or you; Not shall we care for praise or blame From curious crowds of men; For He rewards neither pomp nor fame, Who will sit in judgment then. So bring but a single flower And place on my bier, I pray; And speak at the final hour, Salvation to those who stray:; I shall not care, so my robe be white, What texture or weave it be; For the Lord I serve, if I serve Him right, Wi'l-provide what is fit for me. — The Protestant Episcopalian Church in the United States has been holding a conference at Portland, Oregon. The movement for greater recognition of women in the church, which has already resulted in a report by a joint commission favoring admission of women to the house of deputies, brought about the adoption, by the house of deputies in the general convention, of an amendment to a canon which will make it possible to license women as lay readers. Under this new rule it will be possible for women to read certain portions of the services of the church where no male clergyman is available, or they may assist clergymen. Women, however, will not be permitted to administer the sacraments of the church. If the house of bishops enacts this amendment, it will go into effect the first of next year. Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman Netherlands Mission. An interesting letter has been received from Lillian D. Lillywhite, supervisor of Relief Society work of the Netherlands mission. There are at present nine well organized societies in this mission with a total membership of one hundred and sixty-four, including forty-one officers. The society with the largest membership is located at Rotterdam. A group picture of this branch is printed herewith. The women of the Rel'ef Sociey in this mission all manifest a desire to care for the poor and minister to the suffering. The cost of food and other living expenses, together with the fact that there is considerable unemployment, has resulted in an unusual amount of want and distress. RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE ROTTERDAM BRANCH Mrs. Lillywhite reports that the mission is proud of the members of the organization. Nearly every member is a mother. The women are earnest, whole-hearted Relief Society workers. Their time is freely given to the Relief Society work and a great deal of good has been accomplished by them. All of the nine organizations hold their meetings weekly, and NOTES FROM THE FIELD 527 three of the meetings are devoted to sewing and making articles of clothing. Several hundred such articles were made, and distributed last year. In all branches of the work there is an earnestness and faith that will make for the growth and success of the Relief Society work. Franklin Stake. Mrs. Carrie P. Goaslind, formerly of Preston, Idaho, has moved to Salt Lake City to make her home. Mrs. Goaslind was a counselor of the Franklin Stake Relief Society Board, having served in that capacity since the organization of the Franklin stake. Prior to this time she was a member of the Oneida Stake Board. Mrs. Goaslind has been particularly interested in social service work in the Relief Society, and since her arrival in Salt Lake City she has spent considerable time serving as a volunteer visitor for the welfare department at Relief Society headquarters. Alpine Stake, The summer work of the Relief Society in Alpine stake has been largely of a social nature. Social activities have been under the direction of the Sunshine Committee. Visits have been made to the homes of the sick, the elderly, and the indifferent, where interesting programs have been carried out. Last year over one thousand such visits were made in the stake. Each of the various ward Relief Societies is. Planning a special afternoon affair at which the elderly people will be the guests of honor. In most cases the festivities will be a lawn party, and the various parts of the program will be des'gned for the entertainment of the aged members of the ward. Sewing is another phase of the Relief Society summer work. Old clothes are being remiodeled and new articles are being made. These articles will be used in the fall and winter in the social service departments of the various wards. In order to increase the funds for rel'ef work, the various districts of Alpine stake are each planning a two or three day bazaar, to be held in the fall. British Mission. Mr. Andrew T. Jacobson, Leeds conference president, Bradford, England, has reported to the Relief Society headquarters that the mission has recently organized a Relief Society in each of the six branches of the conference. He further stated that the 528 - RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE work being done is of the usual high standard characteristic of the organizations throughout the Church. Teton Stake. The Teton stake, in making a report of its activities, explained that in spite of certain handicaps the Relief Society work is progress: ng and prospering. Some of the branches are in dryfarm districts, and meetings are organized for summer work. The Relief Society women respond willingly and generously to all calls made of them, and they manifest a great interest in all th activities of the Relief Society. The Teton'a ward of this stake has made the splendid record of one hundred percent Magazine subscribers. Kanab Stake. The officers of the Kanab stake Relief Society have reported that there has been a marked increase in attendance, and that there is manifest a gratifying interest and activity in Relief Society work in all of the wards. In a canvass that was made of the stake it was found that ninety percent of the stake and ward officers are observing the Word of Wisdom. Every ward in the stake paid one hundred percent stake dues and annual membership dues for the year 1922. IN MEMORIAM. In the death of Emma G. Woolley, widow, of the late Kanab stake president, Edw: n B. Woolley, the Church and community lost one of its most faithful and earnest workers. Mrs. Woolley served for several years as first counselor in the Kanab Stake Relief Society and in this capacity she was a devoted and untiring worker. During her husband's long service as president of the stake, Mrs. Woolley shared, willingly, his responsibilities and assisted him in every way possible in discharging his duties. Mrs. Woolley was born at Council Bluffs, Iowa, and was the daughter of Richard and Elizabeth Price Bentley. She was the mother of ten children, seven of whom survive her. She was for several years a resident of St. George, but her later years were spent in Kanab. A beautiful funeral service was held on May 14, which was Mothers' Day, and her many friends paid tribute to her sweet character, her humble spirit, and her unselfish life of service. Star Valley Stake. Each of the eleven wards of the Star Valley stake held a NOTES FROM THE FIELD 529 ward Relief Society conference on June 11. The conference was held as a part of the regular sacrament meeting. Two stake officers visited each conference and assisted the local officers in carrying out an instructive program. Reports were made of the year's work, and the conferences did much to stimulate interest and activ: ty in the Relief Society work. The activity for the summer, in the wards of this stake, includes lessons in making genealogical records and histories, a study of the general conference notes which apppared in the Relief Society Magasine, a singing practice of Relief Society songs, business meetings, and one or more socials. Deseret Stake. Every ward in the stake has continued to hold Relief Society meetings during the summer months, although some of the wards are scattered over a large area of country, many members having to ride three miles to meeting. In many wards the meetings have been held at the homes of members and this has been a great factor in interesting many who have been inactive in the Relief Society. Throughout the stake the programs have been uniform. The first Tuesday has been testimony meeting, the second, work and business, and the others used as each organization desired. In some wards the outlined lessons which have been unavoidably missed were taken up, others have discussed the lives of our leaders and pioneers; and still others have discussed other subjects considered vital to the'r immediate needs. In all the associations, however, a number of socials and entertainments have been enjoyed. The three east wards, Oak City, Leamington, and Lynndyl, being so far from the other wards, joined in the stake social on Flag Day, June 14 About 340 took part in the outing. On August 15, the other eight wards held their social and outing in the Grove at the Sp Ilway. It was a lovely day, and over eight hundred members of the stake, counting the children, joined in the festivities. Lunch was served cafe'eria style during the noor hour, and ice cream was served in the af'ernoon. Some very interesting games and sports were provided, and the day was! Pleasantly spent. The Relief Socie'y of our stake, in cooperation with the Red Cross chapter here, has obtained the services of Miss Johnson, who is giving a course in home nursing. Fifteen classes are given each week in the stake and many mothers and daughters are availing themselves of this splendid opportunity to take up this important subject. About fifty members are enrolled in the class at Delta, and a similar number at Hinckley. 530 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE North Weber Stake. The three stake Relief Societies of Weber county held a tri-stake conference last winter. It was the first meeting at which the Relief Societies of the entire county met together since the division of the old Weber stake. A visitor from the General Board was present, and an inspiring and instructive program was carried out. The teachers' work in the stake has made considerable progress. The teachers use outlines, which they study beforehand and discuss with the families upon making the visit. Inasmuch as some of the wards are located in Nevada, it is not possible to visit them frequently.. A trip was made during the. Year to Nevada by stake president, Georgina G. Marriott. Because of eonomic conditions, it was found that the ward of McGill was greatly reduced in population, and the Ely branch was entirely dissolved. Each ward in the stake made a liberal contribution to the Weber Gymnasium Fund. 4 Samoan Mission. Throughout the Samoan mission the Relief Society annual day was fittingly observed. In some of the small branches, where they are conveniently grouped, conjoint gatherings were held. At Pasega, mission headquarters, #8) six branches of the island met, Bland after a very inspiring morning meeting at which a representative from each branch spoke, all adjourned | to a big Samoan house and participated in a great feast. It was a picturesque gather-..|ing. All present were seated H}on the mat floor about an '| immense circular table. All | sat cross-legged on the mats, and real Samoan hospitality was extended to everyone. Native dancing was one of the features of the afternoon program, On this occasion each sister paid her membership dues and a considerable sum was collected during the course of the day. At Sauniatu a splend! D meeting was held in the morning, a game of cricket was played in the afternoon, and a delightful pro- 'gram was rendered at night. In order to attend this meeting NOTES FROM THE FIELD 531 # Mrs. Thurza A. Adams, president of the Relief Society of the Samoan mission, made a trip of thirty-five miles on horseback over a rough trail. At present the Relief Society in this mission is in an excellent condition. It is well officered and a spirit of harmony and devotion is manifested in every branch. The women are all eager to serve. A missionary was recently taken ill and the women of the Relief Society, upon hearing of this, made a difficult trip of forty miles, partly in row-boats, and partly on foot, in order to nurse and care for him. The accompany ng picture shows one woman who called on the elder, and the gifts they brought to him. This typifies the spirit of willing helpfulness that women of this remote country manifest at all times. I 4 Utah Stake. ' ~ The welfare department of the Utah Stake Relief Society recently had the unique exper'ence of making a report to the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children. Miss Florence Jepperson, vocalist, who is well known and admired throughout the state, found herself in a difficult situation in Lynn, Mass., and the Relief Society played a part in the affair. Miss Jepperson, while studying music in Boston several years ago, had formed a close friendship with Mrs. Virtue Cook Gilchrist, who was a member of the Church, At one time during their long friendship, Miss Jepperson promised Mrs. Gilchrist, who had become a widow, that in case of her death, Miss Jepperson would take her three beautiful little girls. In January of th's year Miss Jepperson, upon hearing of the illness of her friend, hurried to Massachusetts, but arrived only in time to attend her friend's funeral, which had been delayed awaiting Miss Jepperson's arrival. When Miss Jepperson attempted to keep the promise made to the girls' mother, she found, much to her surprise, considerable onpos'tion, which culminated in a hearing before Judge Lathrop of the Probate court. The oppos'tion to giving the custody of children to Miss Jepperson was founded largely on the fact that she was a "Mormon." Reed Smoot, U. S. Senator, and Judge E. E. Corfman, of the State Supreme Court, and other influential friends, both "Mormon" and non-"Mormon," came to Miss Jepperson's aid. The report of the Utah Stake Relief Society, giving the full details of the standing of the Jepperson home in Provo, was presented at the hearing. A second hearing was ordered and Judge Prest, President of the Association for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children, assisted in making the investi- 532 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE gation. The final result was the awarding of the guardianship papers to Miss Jepperson, and she has returned to Utah with her three attractive charges. ATTUNE YOUR HEARTS Mrs. Ida R. Alldredge When the days'are dark and gloomy And the shadows come and go, And the clouds are black and threatening And the winds in fury blow; We look forward to the sunshine, For it follows every rain, And if we but wait in patience We will coax it back again. When the days of weary watching O'er a little patient's cot, | When the baby head is tossing And the little hands are hot, What a solace to be able To have fa'th in One above, And to put our trust in heaven With a knowledge of that love! When in time of bitter sorrow, When the heart is crushed and sore, And there seems no means of comfort, E'en from loved ones any more, There is still a tiny glimmer Of a brighter future day, And if we but keep on trusting We will surely find the way. For no matter what our trouble, Heavy though the cross may be, Or how dark the day and dreary, Or how little light we see, We will find in time the brightness, Faint though it may shine our way, If we'll put our trust in heaven And attune our hearts today. A Twisted Holiday Lila Little Hicken "Say, mother, will you press my skirt tonight? I would do it myself, but I simply must go to the store again. 1 forgot to _get some napkins for our lunch," called Wanda Allen, as she came bustling into the dining-room where her mother sat sewing. "Well, if I get time, I will," mother Allen replied, looking up at her pretty dark-eyed daughter. "But I promised Lucy I would sew the fasteners on her dress tonight." "Oh, mother! What if she doesn't get her new dress tonight, she'll be all right. She can wear my pink one. I must hurry or the stores will be closed." She snatched up her hat and bounded out of the door. Mother Allen sat sewing silently for awhile, then she heard familiar footsteps in the hall, as Vern, her seventeen year old son, put his head into the doorway. "Oh, here you are, mother! Did you find my collar button that I lost," he asked, advancing into the room. "Ves," said mother Allen," and your suit is hanging out on the clothes line. Bring father's clothes in, too, when you come." _ "All right. Say, but we'll have to do some hustling in the morning. Got to be at the station at fifteen to six or we'll not get a seat." "Are there such a lot of people going?" mother asked pleasantly. "Goodness, yes; the whole town's going. Where are Lucy and Wanda?" "They are down town," mother Allen replied. "I guess they will come home with father at eight." "Say, will you black my shoes, mother? I've got to hellp father with the chores tonight and it will be so late when I get to bed I won't ever wake up. I guess you had betiter call me at four thirty so I'll have plenty of time," said the boy as he went into the kitchen. C He soon returned bringing his suit. 'Will you sew this button on mother? It's nearly off." "Did you bring father's suit?" "Oh, I forgot it. I'll bring it when I go out again." And out he went again. Still mother Allen sat sewing, humming a little ditty of her own girlhood days. At eight o'clock her reverie was broken by fourteen-year-old Lucy who ran in breathlessly, gasping: 534 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "Oh, dear, I thought I would never get home. Every one of the girls I met had to find out what I was going to wear. Have you got my dressi done, yet? Say, isn't it pretty?" "Where is Wanda?" mother inquired ignoring the exultant gestures over the fluffy, blue gown. "Oh, she stopped in at Esther's to see if she should take a party dress," was the reply. "T'll go set the table for supper and Wanda can finish the supper when she comes. Wake me at four in the morning will you, mother? I want to curl my hair." Wanda went into the kitchen and soon merry snatches of song mingled with the rattle and clatter of dishes, while through her pretty head flashed visions of the excursion on the morrow. Two hours had passed away. Mother Allen had been busy with pressing the skirt, sewing buttons on breeches, and blacking shoes. The while within her head she had been turning over and evolving a plan so that the hours had slipped by like so many moments. As the old fashioned clock on the mantel was striking the hour of ten, mother Allen turned round to father Allen sitting in his accustomed place by the open' grate, with his paper in his hand. "Father," mother Allen began, "I've something to tell you now we're alone." For the three young people after reminding mother of their respective times to be called, and orders as to the way the lunch was to be prepared, had gone blissfully off to their usual happy dreamless slumber, "Well, dear, what is it?" father Allen asked laying down his paper. "Are we going on the excursion in the morning, father?" "Why, I had not even thought about it, mother." "T have got all our things ready and have put up luncheon for us two. So if you will go get your suit out on the line, (I reminded Vern of it twice, and he still forgot it) we'll be all set for getting off early in the morning," mother Allen said, smiling at the dumbfounded face of her husband. "Why, aren't the children going, mother?" "Of course they are, if they get up in time. I have made cnotigh sandwiches but I cannot remember how they wanted them put in, so I will leave it for them to put up in the morning. Vern asked me to black his shoes, but last time I did not get them to shine enough, so he can do them himself in a few minutes if he hurries in the morning. Lucy is to be called at four, Wanda at fifteen minutes after and Vern at four thirty. That would mean three trips up stairs, and you know how hard they all are to awaken. If I should waken one while calling another, they A TWISTED HOLIDAY 535 would be out of patience for not getting in their extra few minutes of sleep. They are always complaining about not getting enough sleep, so we will let them sleep just as long as they like tomorrow," mother Allen said with a cute little nod, as if to say, "How do you like that?"; "Hurrah! For you, mother," said father Allen catching mother Allen in his arms and turning around the room in an old fashioned waltz, for during mother Allen's rehearsal he had caught the spirit of adventure. "Tt is just what I've been wishing for the last three years. You have made yourself the servant of the children in carrying out their every wish and whim. So tomorrow, we'll turn the tables and go for a well-earned excursion!" he exclaimed as he tripped out lightly after the forgotten suit. It was just nine o'clock in the morning. The little steamer Olglitha was moored by the rustic log dock, while the merry makers from the excursion train filed up the planking to the deck. Mother and father Allen, dressed gaily in their holiday clothes, while their faces beamed with excited delight, came in their. Turn to the plank and onto the steamer that was to carry them far into the recesses of the beautiful mountains, where they would spend the day in the pleasures usually confined to youth and happiness. It was with a feeling of remorse that mother Allen would think of the disappointed trio at home. "But then," she commented to herself as the steamer ploughed its way through the blue, glistening lake, 'A stitch in time saves nine.'" Down in the town a different scene was taking place. The warm June sun, which an hour ago had risen over the eastern horizon, was sending out long rays of sunlight. One of the sunbeams had found its way through the east window of Vern Allen's room. As it reached the sleeper's face the intense heat at last penetrated to the nerves, and with a start Vern Allen sat up, rubbed his eyes and blinked at the sun. Then he thought of the excursion. "What the deuce!" he exclaimed, jumping out of bed and grabbing at his clothes. "Hey, there, Lucy, Wanda, do you know the sun is up?" he shouted through the hall to them. "Gee, I wonder what's the matter with father and mother?" he said as he bounded down the stairs, half dressed, followed closey by Lucy and Wanda in their kimonos and paper curls. "T wonder if the clock has stopped!" said Wanda. "Oh, what if they are sick or dead," said Lucy, with'a startled look on her childish face. 536 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE As they reached the foot of the stairs they bounded towards the kitchen. When they opened the door, the sight that met their eyes made them wink and blink. The clock on the mantel was just striking the hour of nine; the supper dishes they had left for mother were still in the sink and unwashed. Vern's shoes were on a chair with the mud still on them. They went with a rush to their mother's room, The usually tidy room was in a strewn condition. Then Wanda's eye caught sight of a note pinned on the dresser scarf. "Well look at this," she said, snatching it off with an angry gesture, while tears of disappointment blinded her eyes. "What does it say, anyway?" said Vern, taking it from her. "Well, just listen to this!" she exclaimed. "Father and I have gone on the excursion. Lucy wanted me to wake her at four; Wanda at fifteen after; Vern at half past. I did not know how to manage it without waking you all at the same time, and you are so angry nearly every morning if you are awakened before your time, that I thought it would be a good itime to let you catch up with your much needed sleep. I did not black Vern's shoes because I can not make them shine enough to suit him. I was afraid to put up your lunch: Wanda is so particular about it. Have a good time, children, for young people can have a good time without going off on an excursion. "With love, "MoTHER." "P. S. Will you please hang up my clothes, Wanda? I did not have time. I wanted to have a good chat with Mrs. Smith before we got on the train. Will Vern please go one day without using slang? He does not need to be among the smart set today. "MotTHER." "Well, it serves us right,' said Wanda, "I am ashamed of myself. Last week when Mrs. Wray was here visiting I asked mother to hang up my clothes, because I wanted to see Lottie Smith before school." "And yesterday when mother was making my dress," said Lucy shamefaced, "she said if she had her dress made she 'would go, too; and I told her old people could get pleasure from staying at home." "Yes, you're always saying something smart,' Wanda said indignantly. "No, it's I who says the smart things,' Vern broke in. "Mother asked me to quit using such awful slang, and I told her all the smart set are using it now." A TWISTED HOLIDAY 537 "Well, we're all to blame!" Lucy exclaimed as she began to undo her paper curls. "Yes, and here is the time to start anew isn't it, Vern?" asked Wanda going into the kitchen where Vern was busy light-. Ing a fire. "You bet your boo——I—I mean, yes, it is; so let's see how much we can get done today." "All right," sounded 'from the stairs as the two girls ran light-hearted up to thcir room for dust caps and aprons. At least they were "good sports" in Vern's vernacular. The old fashioned clock on the mantel in the Allen home was striking the fhour of ten, as a taxi drew up at the front door. Father Allen chuckled tohimself as he helped mother Allen out, and looking at the bright light glistening out through the mist and rain, said, "Looks like they're giving us a bright welcome, anyway." As they stepped onto the porch the door was thrown open and three happy faces gave them the glad cry of, "Welcome." They ushered their parents into the dining-room where a fire burned brightly in the open grate and a tempting supper was laid on the table. "We have had the grandest day!" Mother Allen exclaimed between breaths from the enraptured huggings she was receiving. "So have we," said Wanda. "For we have learned the lesson of our lives." This was followed by a glad "Hurrah, well said, Wanda," from both Vern and Lucy. The tobacco men have never tired of calling attention to "Uncle" Joe Cannon, with his big black cigar, as an example of the harmiessness of the tobacco habit, giving the impression that the aged man smoked continuously. Now comes Aaron H. Ulm, in Henry Ford's Dearborn Independent, with a sketch of Uncle Joe, in which he knocks the propaganda prop from under the tobacco men, by saying of Mr. Cannon: "While he affects long black cigars, he wears them more than he conswmes them. While he always has one in his mouth—or such was the case until recently, when his physician advised him to moderate the habit— he rarely finishes one. He merely chews up the ends and throws them away." So the truth is out at last. Mr. Cannon has simply been walking around chewing the ends of cigars, then tossing them aside! And even this seemingly minimum absorption of the weed his physician has advised him to moderate!—WwWl H. Brown, Superintendent Press Bureau "N o-Tobacco League of America." The General Procession James H. Anderson _ Greece and Turkey were engaged in big battles near Constantinople, at the end of August. The British government began the construction of a railway from Jerusalem to Bagdad in August. Railway disasters, shipwrecks, and mine casualties in August claimed more than 2,000 lives. The heaviest rainfall in fifty years drenched Washington, D. C., on Sept. 2, doing much damage ito property. Mr. Malfield, Democratic Ku-Kux-Klan candidate for U. S. Senator in Texas, received the State nomination at the primary election there in August. Fifty thousand people were killed in a typhoon and flood at Swatow, China, on August 2, and 100,000 others were rendered homeless. Austria as a nation seemed on the verge of a definite collapse at the end of August, owing to no finances to run the government. Presbyterians in Washington, D. C., decided on August 23 to erect in the National capital a temple to cost $10,000,000. The coal miners' strike in the United States, which began April 1 and ended August 31, cost the American people in wages and business losses more than the cost of any year in the great war, A gliding machine, that is, an airplane which can rise without a motor against a 15-mile-an-hour wind, and travel for three hours has been successfully demonstrated in Germany. Confidential U. S. Government agents, returned from Germany in August, express the opinion that within ten years Germany will be better prepared for war than she was in 1914, France and Great Britain were greatly at loggerheads all THE GENERAL PROCESSION 539 during August, over Germany. A compromise suggested by Belgium finally was adopted, smoothing: matters for the present. Air battles were declared by British experts, in August, to be the prospective decisive conflicts of the future, hence Great Britain is laying plans for the greatest airship fleet in the world. Michael Collins, president of the Irish Free State, was assassinated in August, and disastrous guerrilla warfare was carried on between Free State troops and rebels, generally to the advantage of the former. On August 17-22, United States government officers arrested many I. W. W. Members in Michigan and IIInois, for syndicalism, or engaging in a movement to overthrow the present form of the American government. Violence in the railway shopmen's strike, by which people were being killed, property destroyed, and mail and other transportation seriously interfered with in August, caused the government to secure injunctions in Chicago on September 1, against the whole railway department of the American Federation of Labor. Samuel Gompers and other labor leaders became violently defiant at this action. U. S. Attorney H. M. Daugherty, in behalf of the American government, on September 1, announced the government's attitude toward labor union strikers who persisted in murdering non-strikers and destroying property, as follows: "When the unions claim the right to dictate to the Government, and to dominate the American people, and deprive the American people of the necessities of life, the Government will destroy the unions, for the Government of the United States is supreme and must endure." WHAT WOMEN ARE DOING Women voted in Tennessee for the first time, in August. Zelda Sears, a former Michigan milkmaid, is now the brilliant play author. Mrs. Gatling, a New York woman, has started an English newspaper in Jerusalem, Palestine. In eighteen states of the Union, women are still deprived of the full elective franchise given to men. 540 | RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Mrs. Martha Riley is the Democratic candidate for Congress from Madison, Wisconsin. The women's vote in Ohio, August 8, was the chief cause of the prohibition victory at that election. Alice M. Robertson, present member of Congress from Oklahoma, was nominated in August, by the Republican party, for re-election. In Holland, women 25 years and over may vote, and in August exercised the franchise generally for the first time. The Grand Duchess Marie of Russia has opened an embroidery store in Paris, employing Russian refugee girls. Their work is in great demand. Mrs. Ilma C. Olson, of Minneapol's, is the Socialist party candidate for governor of Minnesota at the coming November election. New York women have gone into court with a protest against policemen stopping them smoking cigarettes on the streets there. Miss Edith Picton-Turkerville of Wales is a labor party candidate for election to the British House of Commons, at a coming election. Madame Ganna Walska, famous Polish grand opera singer, became the wife of Harold F. McCormick, Chicago multim'llionaire, at Paris, France, August 11. American Gentile Protestant women in Texas formed an organization somewhat similar to the Ku-Klux-Klan on August 23. The non-Jewish, non-Catholic membership goes into the thousands already. The palace at Susa, in which Queen Esther of Bible fame held converse with King Ahasuerus concerning the wicked prime minister Haman, has been uncovered by archaeologists, with remarkably interesting relics. Thirty pajama-clad girls, hustled out of their beds by fire at Lakeside, Michigan, on August 8, formed a bucket brigade, and by energetic work, saved a number of bu'ldings. GENERAL PROCESSION. — 541 Mrs. Blanche Rivers in charge of the W/sconsin welfare division of the state board of health there, advocates a prohibition law for suppressing the coffee habit among children. Mrs. Bertha Ward, woman marshal of Deslacs, Wisconsin, resigned her office on August 19, because drunken men merely laughed at her when she sought to induce them to cease disturbing the peace. Nashel el Abed, a talented Arab girl, prominent in the recent Syrian rebellion against the French, and who recently escaped from a French prison, says the cause of the revolt was the occupation of Syria by black troops, and the tyranny of French officials. Miss Hilda Jones, an English girl aged 17 years, broke the world's 300-meter swimm'ng record at New York on August 5. Miss Hilda Reggin was eight feet, and Miss Ethel McGary a feet behind her at the finish. The two latter are New York girls. ALONE Bertha Roberts I am alone, dear, in the evening twilight, A misty film obscures heav'ns deep'ning blue. Where are the beacon stars of yester glory That lighted up the way for me and you? I am alone, love, and the night is coming; ~ I cannot see—I need your guiding hand. The dark brings fears and doubts,—O, aid me, darling, My feet seem slipping in the treacherous sand. I am alone, my husband, and my heart aches, For with you gone the light seems fading fast,— But there,—far in the gloom a ray's faint glimmer! *Tis gone—'tis there—it shines, it shines at last! I am alone, my loved one, but that beacon Will shine into my heart and lead: me on; It is my star of hope which once was waning, Twill guide me till the Resurrection Dawn. EDITORIAL _ Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS - - - - President MRS. JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT -: -: - First Counselor MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - - - - Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund Mrs. Jeannette A. Hyde Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Lottie Paul Baxter Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Miss Lillian Cameron Mrs. Julia A. Child Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Mrs. Cora Bennion Mrs. Rosanna C. Irvine Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist 7 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Business Manager - - - - - - Jeannette A. Hype Assistant Manager - - - - - - -Amy Brown LyMan Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. IX OCTOBER, 1922 No. 10 THE NEED OF THE HOUR Paul, the Apostle, in speaking to the Corinthians, gives us the text of our thought in this writing: "And I, brethren, when I came to you, came not with excellence of speech or of wisdom, declaring unto you the testimony of God. "For I determined not to know anything among you, save Jesus Christ and him cructfied. "And I was with you in weakness, and in fear, and in trembling. "And my speech and my preaching was not with enticing words of man's wisdom, but in demonstration of the Spirit and of power. "That your faith should not stand in the wisdom of men, but in the power of God." If there is any one larger message taught by the gospel of Jesus Christ, it is that wherein we are admonished to have faith in the Father of us all; "not to stand in the wisdom of men, but in the power of God." Today, when books and schools are thought of as the primary factors in educating our children, this divine injunction of our Lord is in need of cultivation among the youth of Zion. It is something that should be their sotl's desire, and to it, their lives, as children in the pursuit of truth, should be dedicated. After all, faith in God is the greatest characteristic a person can have; but we fear it is the one that is today least cultivated. In past ages, the religion of Christ has been preserved only as men have walked in humility and uprightness before God. Today it is the guiding principle of life to direct men onward "with an eye single to the glory of God." The great things of the Church have EDITORIAL. $43 been accomplished only by faith in God. It was the impelling power that brought the pioneers to Utah; it was the power that gave them the strength to redeem the earth, and to build for the future. It is the power today by which the Church lives and moves among humanity with the message of the Savior of the world. The light and power of God are denied to no man who seeks them, With them, men are strong and are able to discern good and to shun evil. If a man has the truth of God in his heart, he is not deceived by "excellency of speech" or the wisdom of men. The Spirit of God discerns the Sp'rit of God; but he who walks and speaks without it is of the world and is unable to find the crowning glory of life-truth. Today the youth of Zion need the ring of Christ's message. They need to be directed along the path that leads them to a knowledge of God and his handiwork. For, after all, true education leads to the fountain of all knowledge, and God is the Father of knowledge and truth. He only is learned in the spirit of light, who is the "demonstration of the spirit of power." It is the cultivation of the divine within that will give us the freedom of truth. To the children of today, this message: "Put not your faith too much in the wisdom of men, but in the power of God." MERCY AND FORGIVENESS Ever keep in exercise the principle of mercy, and be ready to forgive our brother on the first intimations of repentance, and asking forgiveness; and should we even forgive our brother. Or even our enemy, before he repent or ask forgiveness, our heavenly Father would be equally as merciful unto us?Joseph Smith's Teachings?History of the Church, Vol. 3, p. 383. Guide Lessons for December LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in December) MIRACLES OF THE LATTER DAYS "Mormonism" has become "a marvelous work and a wonder" in the eyes of the world, but to the Latter-day Saint it is a progressive miracle. Without Divine interposition and delegated authority and individual testimony (a faith that is a gift from God) this Church could never have been an institution fulfiling prophecy as it has. It is predestined to triumph with the sword of truth and to dominate by rendering Christian service. "Mormonism" had its Beginning in a Miracle. Joseph Smith's first vision was no human day-dream, it was a revelation as far above man's imagination as is the sun above the arc light. The grove, made sacred by the miracle, was a sanctuary for the first Latter-day Saint (an innocent truth-seeking boy); it was a temple blessed with the presence of God. The Father and his Son, the Redeemer of the World., Both were seen, each spoke, and was heard, the Father introducing his immortal, resurrected Son in a manner that showed: the kindest consideration of the one and the most tender affection and highest approval of the other. ''Joseph, this is my beloved son, hear him." Then follows the question addressed to both the Father and the Son. It was answered by the Son, who supplemented his reply with instructions. (See Pearl of Great Price; Writings of Joseph Smith, II, 8-28.) This miracle had behind it the word of the Lord in the form of prophecy. (See Book of Mormon, II Nephi 3:7-16.) It had behind it also a human family need. The true God idea had become so distorted by false teachings that nothing short of a direct revelation of the personality and character and relationship of the Eternal Father and his Son, the Redeemer, could form a safe foundation for the dispensation of the fulness of times. 'Darkness covered the earth." The true and living God had been argued out of existence in the minds of men. The miracle in the grove brought back the lost truth. It was "The dawning of a brighter day." There was now one person on the earth who had more than a knowledge of God, he GUIDE LESSONS. 545 had an acquaintance with God the Father and his Son Jesus Christ, and that acquaintance was increasingly lasting. All who know of the fidelity of Joseph Smith to the reality of the first vision can say for him what Paul said of himself, 'I have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the faith." The Book of Mormon a Miracle. The second great miracle of "Mormonism" was the appearance of the angel Moroni. This messenger from heaven, who had been the guardian of the plates for more than a thousand years, showed that he was no stranger to the new seer, for he calls Joseph by name. This miracle has the remarkable distinction of being three times repeated. (See Pearl of Great Price; Writings of Joseph Smah, Ul, 29-47.) In preparing Joseph for the possession and translation of the plates, several miracles were performed, and one of them was of a nature that put Joseph on the failure list. He, however, with an honesty not characteristic of either frauds nor hallucinated persons, makes record of his error. (See Pearl of Great Price; Writings of Joseph Smith, 11, 52-54.) The delivery of the plates to Joseph and the placing upon him of the responsibility of their care and use was a striking miracle. This miracle was in fulfilment of the miracles of knowledge recorded in Psalm 85:11 and Book of Mormon, Mormon 8:16. An immortal being, who could enter and leave a room with openings closed, as the resurrected Jesus did, hands those plates, earth material, over to Joseph; in this miracle is indicated the marvelous versatility of the power of re-embodied or resurrected beings. The translation of the plates was one of the most extended miracles of record. The visions of Moses and the revelations of John the Revelator are short in comparison with the production of the Book of Mormon, a work which required the aid of the superhuman at every step. As conclusive evidence of the helplessness of human beings to make progress alone in the task, one needs but to read Doctrine and Covenants, Section 3, where again is seen the honesty and humility of Joseph Smith. With dauntless courage he gives to the world the word of the Lord that almost pitilessly puts him under condemnation. Impostors do not publicly condemn themselves. (See Doctrine and Covenants 10:1-4.) Testimony of the Three Witnesses a Miracle. The three witnesses whose testimony is published with the 546 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE! Book of Mormon were partic: pants in a miracle. They witnessed a presentation of the plates by an angel of God, who came down from heaven, and they heard the voice of God declaring that the translation was by the gift and power of God. All this was superhuman evidence, knowledge unobtainable by any mortal means. And these witnesses never varied from their testimony; it was with them unchanged through life and held to at death. The testimony of the eight witnesses, while of an unimpeachable character, does not reach over into the realm of the superhuman, The miracle element entered into the making of the Book. Of Mormon history. The historians were men of God, inspired and prophetic. The guardianship and the delivery of the plates, and the profitable reading of the book is close to, if not within, the field of the miraculous. President Heber C. Kimball is quoted as having prophetically promised that a three-hours' honest-hearted reading of the Book of Mormon by a believer would cure any case of the "blues." The spiritual experiment has been tried many a time and no case of failure has been reported. The Book itself makes prayerfulness a prerequisite of a profitable reading of it. (See Moroni 10:4.) Heart-prayer is spiritual honesty, and how can anyone consistently expect to find truth from an untrue point of view? It is as impossible to find God's ways without God as it is to find nature's ways without nature. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Wherein is every revelation from God a miracle? 2. Describe the first miracle of "Mormonism" as it appears to you; (a) the place, (b) the time, (c) the events. 3. What needs were there for the first miracle of '""Mormonism'? (a) on earth? (b) in heaven? 4, What facts did the first miracle establish? (a) as to the reliability of the scriptures, (b) as to the prevailing idea of God, (c) as to the quality of existing religious institutions. 5. In the first miracle what was done that indicated the Father's acquaintance with Joseph Smith? 6. How did Moroni give evidence of knowing Jpseph before Joseph knew him? 7. In what particular was the second miracle of "Mormonism" an exceptional one? 8. Wherein was the translation of the plates a miracle? 9. Show that the possession of the plates was beyond the reach of human power. GUIDE LESSONS 547 10. Describe the miracle upon which the testimony of the three witnesses was based. 11. How may we account for the fact that some fair-minded persons speak of the Book of Mormon as good ethics while they discredit the manner of its coming forth? 12. "A thing of beauty is a joy forever." What one thing more could be said of a good painting of the Sacred Grove in a Latter-day Saint home? LESSON II Work and Business. SECOND WEEK IN DECEMBER LESSON III Literature. (Third Week in December) HYMNS WRITTEN BY WOMEN Many people know that women have contributed a goodly number of hymns, of great value, to the hymnals of Christendom; yet they do not know to what extent women have contributed, neither do they know that a large group of the most valued hymns have been written by women. It is the purpose of this lesson to discuss the points indicated in the introductory paragraph. From 1546, to very near the present day, 2,500 hymns have been written by women. A list of twelve well known hymns will indicate what some of these hymns are: "T Need Thee Every Hour," Mrs, E. P. Prentiss; "Nearer My God, to Thee," Mrs. Sarah Flower Adams: "Work for the Night is Coming," Annie L. Walker; "The Ninety and Nine," Elizabeth C. Clephane; "Over the River," Nancy W. Priest; "Rocked in the Cradle of the Deep,' Mrs. Willard; "Flee as a Bird," Mrs. M. S. B. Dana; ''Peace, be Still," Mrs. M. A. Baker; "Sowing the Seed" (with the well known chorus, What shall the harvest be?), Mrs. Emily S. Oakey; "When the Mists have Rolled Away," Annie Herbert; "Nearer Home," Phoebe Cary; "The Battle Hymn of the Republic," Julia Ward Howe. Of these hymns the three most valued, perhaps, are 'Ninety and Nine," called by some people the greatest gospel hymn of our time; "Nearer My God to Thee," sung the world over by people of every Christian creed; and the "Battle Hymn of the Republic," valued for its Jofty tone and Christian patriotism. 548 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE An outstanding feature of hymns written by women is the fact that almost without exception they are filled with a deep sense of gratitude to Jesus, whom they paise as their Redeemer, their Savior from sin, the Author of eterfal life. This should be a source of satisfaction to all women, for in these hours of intellectual keenness, and sometimes spiritual darkness, we are all indebted to those persons who have become witnesses for Christ, in song or story, or through whatever medium the Holy Spirit prompts. Another reason why it is natural for women to praise Christ is that he exalted women. Throughout his min'stry, he placed her at man's side, where she belongs. He was throughout his life her champion, her sympathetic advisor and companion. It was she to whom he first revealed himself at the tomb and to whom he gave the commisssion that she should tell the brethren, his disciples, that the crucified Lord had become the risen Redeemer. The light of truth which Christ brought into the world to dispel the darkness of ignorance and error must always be the most potent of all factors for the exaltation of womanhood. One of the loftiest truths paid to woman in connection with her Redeemer is found in the lines of Elizabeth Barrett Browning: "Not she with traitorous kiss her Savior stung; Not she den'ed him with unholy tongue; She, while apostles shrank, could danger brave, Last at his cross, and earliest at his grave." The hymn, 'Ninety and Nine," written by Elizabeth C. Clephane, a native of Scotland, in the year 1864, was inspired by the Scriptural lines, "Rejoice with me, for I have found my sheep that was lost." The author of "Nearer, My God, to Thee," Mrs. Sarah Flower Adams, was born in Cambridge, England, February 22, 1805. She has been but very slightly known to the great public who have cherished her lyrics as among its most sacred treasures for nearly half a century. Her father was the editor of a weekly Cambridge paper, and her mother was a woman of fine gifts and culture. She herself was the youngest child. She was noted in early life for the taste she manifested in literature, and in her maturer years for great zeal and earnestness in her religious life. At what time she wrote the world-famous hymn, "Nearer, My God, to Thee," is unknown, but, say her biographers, "it was probably during some period of peculiar trial when her spirit was uplifted through sorrow almost beyond its earthly body." The hymn was first published in 1841, in a volume of sacred lyrics issued GUIDE LESSONS 549 by Mr. Fox of England, just eight years before the death of the author, who passed beyond in her forty-fifth year. Mrs, Adams visited America just before her hymn was first written. Besides being an author she also composed music consdered good in England. Her works have been collected and edited. At the time of her death she did not suspect that she had written one of the first of Christian hymns, a hymn that takes its place with "Rock of Ages," "A Mighty Fortress is My God" and other hymns recognized as greatest in Christian hymnology. Julia Ward Howe,. Author of "The Battle Hymn of the Republic," was born in Bowling Green, New York City, in 1819. Her early years showed unusual talent for writing both in prose and verse. At seventeen she was a valued contributor to the New York Magazine, a well known periodical at that time. She early developed musical talent and was urged by her instructors to devote herself to composing music. She had a musical voice and dramatic ability that won her high rank among the amateurs of her time. Her father was a man of wealth and culture, drawing into the home the most eminent mus'cians and literary connoisseurs, so that Mrs. Howe had practically every advantage for self improvement that those early days afforded. In 1843 she was married to Dr. Samuel Howe, a prominent reformer. While abroad a year or two after her marriage she gave birth to a daughter christened Julia Romania in remembrance of her birth in Rome. After her return from Europe she became much interested in the slavery question, and in 1845, "Words for the Hour" was pttblished, which was her second volume of poems published, the first being issued under the title of "Passion Flower." It was during the Civil war that she wrote her world-famous poem, "The Battle Hymn of the Republic." The following account of the writing of this hymn is given by her biographer in Famous Women:?'When our land was stained with the blood of its defenders, and the war bugles rang through the country, her voice took up the cry and echoed back a war pean grand enough for the march of the Republic to its greatest conquest, the victory of self. It has been unjustly attributed by some to Chaplain McCabe, because he sang it so frequently after it came out, while he was doing noble work among the boys in blue. Here is the circumstance that inspired the writing of it. In company with her husband and a party of ladies and gentlemen she made a memorable visit to the Capital of the United States during the war. In company with friend, at a review of troops, an interruption was caused by movements from the enemy. Re'nforcements were sent to a party of soldiers that had been surrounded and the review 550 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE was abandoned for the day. The carriage containing Mrs. Howe and friends moved slowly along, surrounded by armed men. Among other things she sang 'John Brown Song' in her rich melodious voice, which much' pleased and inspired her hearers. She then expressed a desire to write better words for that soulstirring tune, remarking that she feared that she would never be able to accomplish it. "She retired to rest that night full of thoughts of battle, and awakening in the gray dawn next morning, she sprang from her bed, seized her pen and paper and in a few moments the 'Battle Hymn of the Republic' was completed. As she finished it, she exclaimed: 'I like that better than anything I have ever written'." She lived to be nearly one hundred years of age, passing to her reward Oct. 17, 1910. Four children survived her; the eldest daughter died before her mother's death. It should be a source of great pride and satisfaction to the Latter-day Saints that their women have kept pace with the gifted women of the world in their contribution of hymns to the hymnology of their people. Time will give to the women of latter-day Israel, who have written hymns of high order, the recognition they so justly deserve. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Use the three hymns "Ninety and Nine," "Nearer, My God, to Thee,' and "Battle Hymn of the Republic" for the music of the meeting, as far as possible. If it is impossible for you to have these hymns stung, for any reason best known to you, have them read. 2. Have someone give the scriptural account of the lost sheep., 3. To what events of history does Elizabeth Barrett Browning refer when she writes of woman, "Last at his cross and earliest at his grave." 4. What tragic occurrence, within the last twelve years, brought the hymn "Nearer, My God, to Thee," into new prominence, all over the world? 5. Namea song written by a woman, during the world's war that gained great popularity? GUIDE LESSONS 551 \ LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in December) LATEP ADOLESENCE The period from eighteen to twenty-five years of age is known as later adolescence. In many respects it resembles the period of early adolescence, (13 to 18 years of age). The interest in the opposite sex is the dominant one. The feeling of independence or self-sufficiency is also strong in this period. The difference between the earlier and the later period is a matter of degree of physical and mental development and of the widening of experience and responsibility. We do not, for example, expect the boys and girls of the early adolescent period to engage in courtship, although they may be interested in the opposite sex as much as are those of later adolescence; nor do we want the youth of the early period to carry heavy responsibilities, although they may feel entirely capable of doing anything which father or mother. Can do. The difference, therefore, is not in the nature of their interest or in their ambition, or in the faith which they have in their own ability to know and to do things. The whole adolescent period is essentially one of growth, accompanied by the consciousness of new interests, new powers, and a feeling of self-sufficiency. The difference is essentially a matter of increased responsibility which the added years bring about. The New Responsibilities The young man who has reached the period of adolescence is confronted with vital problems which must soon be solved. He must now choose his life's companion. He must settle upon his life's vocation. He has the task of determining upon his political party, and the part he is to play in the great social world. All these and many other questions are daily placed before h-m. Some of these he may settle definitely, but others may be left as unsettled problems until later life. The success he attains in dealing with these questions will depend upon his natural judgment and his educational and social opportunities. Judgment and Thought It is very certain that there is no period in the lives of individuals when they receive such stimulation for thought as dur- 552 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ing this period between the ages of eighteen and twenty-five. We note that this is the time when the young people are doing their senior high school and college work. Those who are not in school should be stimulated to think and pass judgment upon the practical questions which are every day imposed upon them. Books, magazines, and the daily papers are available, and should tend to develop thought.. There is no longer an excuse for ignorance among the young people. The trouble, therefore, is not so much the lack of opportunities, although we must admit all young people do not have the same educational and social privileges, but it is a matter of getting them to make use of the opportunities which come to them. Above all it is a matter of getting them to use the experience and thought power which they possess. They need to apply more of the ordinary common sense, to use their judgment more and their impulses less, in solving the common yet vital problems that will present themselves. The Most Vital Problem of Later Adolescence Whether viewed from the standpoint of the individual's welfare, or that of the family, or society, or even the race, the question of selecting one's life companion is jthe most important problem of this period. As Latter-day Saints we view the problem as a sacred, religious obligation. The blessings of eternity are very closely linked to the principle of marriage. It is, therefore, very proper that courtship should not be carried on until men and women are sufficiently mature to realize its meaning. The early adolescent period, with its impulses and uncertainties, is not suitable to solve so important a problem. Even later adolescents seem not to view the problem with the seriousness which it deserves. The strong emotional elements which dominate this sacred relation between young men and young women make rational direction extremely difficult. "Love," writes the late Professor Henderson of the University of Chicago, "has illusions, for it idealizes its object; transforms the shallow, pretty girl into a creature of majesty and character; it catises a mean scamp to loom up in the brilliant fancy of a girl, in a mist magnified a thousand diameters, of moral greatness." In Shakespeare's "Midsummer Night's Dream" the queen, under the spell of a magic potion, loved a donkey. ? Nor are the conventional standards and customs more inducive to reflective control of courtship than are the blind instinctive emotions. In a recent number of the Utah High School Journal, we read the following description of courtship in our communities: ''The boy of eighteen is expected to make life in- GUIDE LESSONS 553 teresting for the girl of his choice. He is expected to talk about nothing of a serious nature. He is expected to reveal but ? one side, the humorous side. Should he talk about his business or his farm interests, he is too practical and unromantic. If he says a word about his political aims, he is too ambitious; if he talks much about religion, he is considered fanatical; and if he dares to reveal his conception of an ideal home, he is getting serious and will likely lose his suit. It is better for him to be a clown than a gentleman. "The girl is expected not to take seriously anything that he says. She must laugh at everything he tells her. * * * Parents are not generally expected to associate intimately with young people during this period, and that individual known as a chaperon is very unpopular in most circles of young people." The attitude here described has developed simply because parents and community leaders have treated the subject with too much levity. According to Coffin even "domestic infelicities serve as one of the standard subjects of the joke-smith, in the funny column and in the Sunday supplement of the daily press." A whole attitude toward this subject is well expressed by Tennyson: "To lead sweet lives in purest chastity, To love one maiden only, cleave to her, And worship her by years of noble deeds, Until they won her; for indeed I know Of no more subtle master under heaven Than is a maiden passion for a maid, Not only to keep down the base in man, But teach high thought, and amiable words, And courtliness, and the desire of fame, And love of truth, and all that makes a man." _ SUGGESTIVE READING E. A. Kirkpatrick: The Individual in the Making, Chapter 9. Henderson: Social Duties, pp. 22-22. Halt: _A Practical Sociology, Chapter 18. QUESTIONS 1. In what respect does later adolescence differ from early adolescence? In what respect are the natural interests of these periods the same? 554 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 2. 'Show that the ages from 18 to 25 are the years when young people are actually engaged in reflective thought. 3. Do the subjects of religion and courtship receive the thoughtful consideration which they deserve? If not, explain why they do not. 4. Show that honest, scientific pursuits do not lead to disbelief of jtrue religion. 5. Give your reason to support the position that faith in the gospel is based upon reflective thought as well as upon the feelings. ' 6. Give reasons to show that the problem of selecting a life's companion requires more than emotional or sentimental consideration. 7. What effect does the common habit of parents joking about matters of love have upon the minds of young people? 8. Show that the subject af courtship may properly be considered in religious meetings. 9. What are the customs of courtship in your own community? Has the Church any rule or discipline on the subject? 10. What can ibe done ot produce a purer, more sober and rational custom in the neighborhood? How do we deal with immoral men and women in the community? TEACHERS' TOPIC (December ) The mission of the Savior. Love and Service. "God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish but have everlasting life." John 3:16. "Beloved, if God so loved us, we ought also to love one another." John 4:11. Christmas giving and Christmas greetings are forms of loving service. Let them be genuine, unselfish acts of love and good will. In this connection note: 'God loveth a cheerful giver." IT Corinthians 8:7. "Tt is more blessed to give than to receive." Acts 20:35. Books of the Bible in Verse In Genesis the world was made by God's creative hand; Jn Exodus the Hebrews marched to gain the Promised Land; Leviticus contains the Law, holy, just and good; Numbers records the tribes enrolled-?all sons of Abraham's blood; Moses, in Deuteronomy, records God's mighty deeds; Brave Joshua into Canaan's land the host of Israel leads; In Judges their rebellion oft provokes the Lord to smite; But Ruth records the faith of one pleasing in his sight. In First and Second Samuel of Jesse's sons we read; Ten tribes in First and Second Kings revolted from h's seed. The First and Second Chronicles see Judah captive made; But Ezra leads a remnant back by princely Cyrus' aid. The city wall of Zion Nehemiah builds again; While Esther saves her people from the plots of wicked men. In Job we read how faith will live beneath affliction's rod, And David's Psalms are precious songs to every child of God, And Proverbs like a goodly string of choicest pearls appear; Ecclesiastes teaches men how vain are all things here; The Song of Solomon exalts sweet Sharon's Rose, While Christ, the savior and the king, the rapt Isaiah shows. The warning Jerem'ah apostate Israel scorns; His plaintive Lamentations their awful downfall mourns. Ezekiel tells in wondrous words of dazzling mysteries; While kings and empires yet to come Daniel in vision sees. Of judgment and of mercy Hosea loves to tell; Joel describes the blessed days when God with men shall dwell. Among Lekoa's herdsmen Amos received his call While Obadiah prophesies of Edom's final fall; Jonah enshrines a wondrous type of Christ, our risen Lord; Micah pronounces Judah lost?tost, but again restored. Nahum declares on Ninevah just judgment shall be poured; A view from Chaldea's coming doom Habakkuk's visions give; Next Zephaniah warns the Jews to turn, repent and live. Haggai wrote to those who saw the temple built again, And Zechariah prophesied of Christ's triumphant reign. Malachi was the last that touched the high prophetic chord; Its notes sublimely show the coming of the Lord.?Anon. Past and Future Marian A. Gudmundsen Relief Society! Ah, well art thou named! Thy mission has ever been one of succor; Comfort and cheer have been thy watchwords; To minister unto the afflicted, to bind up the broken hearted, To aid the needy and distressed in all the land. Skilful have been the hands of thy workers, To fashion fabrics into useful forms. Industry and thrift have characterized thy members; Self-supported hast thou ever been, independent, Giving thine assistance freely without return. Not pleasure, but "pleasure in duty" has been thy motto, And when the work of thy hands was comp'eted Thou hast not given thyself to idle recreation; But ever hast thou turned thy mind to study. For wisdom and knowedge has thou sought, In good books and in counsel together. To what, then, shall we liken thee? To a colony of ants, toiling indefatigably; To a hive of bees gathering the golden honey Of wisdom, and from thy precious store, Sweeteriing the daily life of all around thee. This has been thy history?one long labor of love. And were this to compass thy destiny, It were enough to send thy fame ringing down the ages. But grander yet awaits thee; Thou shalt in time to come assist in freeing woman. From all restraining shackles which yet encircle her about; Conventions, prejudices, senseless fashions, And all that seems to raise her up, but holds her down, Preventirig her from gaining and adorning The loftier summits of a nobler womanhood. Thou shalt encourage, strengthen, lead her Along the steep and thorny path which she must c'imb To grander realms of thought, a broader vision, A wider scope of. Action, clearer light. Then since the woman is the great regenerative power, Uplifted and renewed the race inevitably must be. Thus, with thy fellow organizations, As auxiliaries and aids unto the priesthood, Still must thou labor for the right, The spread of truth, the welfare of the whole, To usher in the great mi'lennial day. To social motherhood thou wilt yet attain, Continuing the relief of physical distress; Relief of moral suffering, social wrong, thou then wilt undertake. Humanity calls upon thee to relieve the crushing burden Of dire oppression and injustice which doth weigh it down. Then, here, upon thy glorious natal day, Whilst thou lookest back with joy and: pride Upon the toilsome path which thou hast climbed, Forget not upward still to cast thine eye To heights thou yet shalt scale, and gaining, Make clear the way for all who watch thy progress, Earth's mighty sisterhood, who must follow in thy steps. THE HOUSE OF FINE FURS We specialize in high grade Fur Repairing and Remodeling Our fur manufacturing department is equipped with the most modern and scientific fur making machines, our furrriers bring long years of exaE perience to -your service. <_< aaa Write about your furs if not in the Salt Lake City, Utah city. Cleanliness is the first requisite to health. Buy no food that is not clean and not surrounded with immaculate cleanliness. We invite you to inspect our Market, our Goods and our methods of doing business. DICKINSON'S The right weigh. CHOICE MEATS AND FANCY GROCERIES No ovecharge. No short-weight. No cold-storage goods, No discourtesy, No substitution. No disappointment. All sales are fully guaranteed. Free weekly merchandise distribution to our Customers, > Let us be helpful in planning your meals. Squabs furnished on short notice. Hyland 60. Free Delivery 680 East 2nd South. PRESENT MOTHER WITH A BOUND VOLUME OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 'Following are the ores we have on hand: 12 vols: of 1915, cloth bound $1.75 1 vol. Of 1918, leather bourd -.....020222 200 2 vels. Of 1919, cloth bound 2.75 I vol. Of 1919, leather bound _.....02.0 3.00 6 vols. Of 1920, cloth bound ?....0002202022-.----. 2.75 10 vols. Of 1920, leather bound ~........02.........-... 3.00 15c Extra for postage All orders should be addressed <0 the Relief Society Magazine, Room 22, Bishops Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah. TO AGENTS Please commence at once to take subscriptions for 1923. This will insure subscribers a copy of the January Number. Start Where You Are If you are ever to succeed, you must do it by starting from where you are. Success is won a step ata time. Each day must show progress. Promotion comes because you have made yourself more valuable? have proved that you are able to handle large responsibilities, The record of our graduates proves that our training is practical, that it fits you for a desirable place in business, that it gives you knowledge and sharpens your ability in a manner that not only enables you to take advantage of opportunities but to create them. Join us next Monday. L. D. S. Business College Salt Lake City, Utah anesoneooneesavaya All the Year Day and Evening CEST By TEST" Ice Cream: Candy Cake-Luncheons PHONE WAS.3223 - P.0.80X:17/3: * SALT LAKE CHY APage for Every Woman Containing latest patterns?fascinating health and beauty suggestions?recipes for cooking special dishes?and numerous articles that have. Special appeal to women readers. In fact there is a department for every member of the family furnishing entertainment and information regarding the live topics of the day. All this with progressiveness?wholesomeness and dependability characterizes Che Deseret News Utah's Leading Evening Newspaper When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Columbus, Westward ho! A NEW BOOK By Alice Merrill Horne <mNGE of beautiful books FOR HOME an historic drama, written and designed in the GIFT. Atmosphere of romance and the spirit of adver'ur: LIBRARY which characterized the Columbian reric 2. SCHOOL with Address 333 eret News Press, Ouray Ave., Salt Lake CityAn aristic and charming home production $1.75 Ten three-colored illustrations by Florence Ware, D: s- Was. 912 ar | Was. 912 | al Releetsp, 2 ae: tee ? evivatio? A Spirit of Friendly Sympathy Marks Every Feature of Our Service S. M. TAYLOR & COMPANY successors to Joseph E. Taylor Funeral directors to the People of Salt Lake City and Vicinity since 1860. PHONE WASATCH 912. An institution, founded when the city was yet young, whose service has been faithfully built up to noteworthy eminence in the proprieties of funeral service. Was. 912 | 251-257 East First South Street. | Was, 912 Mention Religf Society Magasine S. M. TAYLOR, President A. MEEKING, JR., Secy. And Treas. FOOD PRODUCTS For the dainty spread?or a regular meal?you need only a few minutes in which to prepare PIERCE'S PORK AND BEANS. A savory satisfying meat that will both surprise and delight with its delicious goodness. PIERCE'S is the dependable ally of the resourceful housewife. TRY PIERCE'S TOMATO CATSUP. Try It ? No Obligation Use it for thirty days?then decide. We offer you the use of one of our Clark Jewel Lorain Gas Ranges for thirty days in your home. If, at the end of this period, you do not like it, we will take it back without expense to you. Utah Gas & Coke Gompany GEO. R. HORNING, Gen. Mer. Mention Relief Society Magasine 351 So. Main Was. 705 SVE XO QTL XT QHYUI HIINS WKH ANIITOUND saw DUNUXAA BLUE PINE OLIVE OIL, For Every L. D. S. Family You can now buy the purest FRENCH Olive Oil under the Blue Pine label. Blue Pine Olive Oil is heavy in butter-fat-content ?which makes it nourishing food. It is free from acid and you can drink the contents of a bottle at one time without distressing effects. For Church purposes the best should be used. You can rely on Blue Pine Olive Oil as the very best procurable. Use it freely for sickness, household purposes and Church ordinances. Be sure you get the genuine BLUE PINE OLIVE OIL?an extra cork with every bottle. 3 SIZES 4-8-16 oz. BOTTLES Seowcrott MADE IT! 