Vol. IX APRIL, 1922 I N Read the Special Articles: WHY I AM A MORMON RELIEF SOCIETY BEGINNINGS IN UTAH JERUSALEM REDEEMED BY TITHING Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Room 29 Bishop's Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year?Single Copy, 10c Canada and Foreign, $1.25 a Year?15c Single Copy Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah L. D. S. GARMENTS LOOK FOR THIS LABEL IN THE NECK OF GARMENTS The Sign of Temple Brand The Sign of Quality Temple Brand GARMENTS The Sign of Comfort If your leading dealer does not have the garments you desire, select your wants from this list end send order direct to us. We will prepay all postage to any part of the United States. Samples submitted upon request. Style; Price Style 1 Special Summer weight $1.25 24 Unbranded special, light wt. 1.25 15 Bleached spring needle gauze 1.75 25 Cotton, light wt., bleached... 2.25 3 Cotton, gauze wt., bleached. 2.00 75 Cotton, medium wt., bleached 2.50 . 90 Cotton, heavy wt. Unbleached 2.50 50 Lisle, gauze wt., bleached... 2.65 107 Merino wool, medium wt..... 3.75 109 Merino wool, heavy weight... 4.25 65 Mercerized, It. Wt., bleached 3.75  305 Australian wool, It. Wt........ 6.00 1922 Pure Glove Silk..................12.00 We make BATHING SUITS. Ask for what you want?we will fit you. Salt Lake Knitting Store 70 Main St  Salt Lake City We make BATHING SUITS. Ask for what you want?we will fit you. | Salt Lake Knitting Store 70 Main St. Salt Lake City Mention Relief Society Magazine BURIAL CLOTHES The Columbia Grafonola is the only phonograph which has the non-set automatic stop. $100.00  For this Beauty Take 15 Months to Pay Daynes Beebe Music Co 61-3-5 Main St OLDER THAN THE STATE OF UTAH BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Society first to recognize the need of meeting the reduction of high prices Call at our Burial Clothes Department 22 Bishop's Building Prompt attention given all out of town orders TEMPLE SUITS MADE TO ORDER Salt Lake City, Utah Phone Wasatch 3286 Salt Lake City Mention Relief Society Magazine Mention Relief Society Magazine HOUSEHOLD TREASURERS In this day of household economics the lady of the home has, to a great extent, become the house treasurer and financier?it is she who carries the pocketbook, in other words, it is she who should supervise the bank account. To these good ladies we suggest the use of the check book. It is the modern, economic and convenient way to handle money. The bank check is a good receipt for money paid out on household accounts? it is a bookkeeper. TRY THE BANK PLAN. National Bank of Commerce OGDEN, UTAH When Shopping Mention Relief Society Magazine Latter-Day Saints APPROVED LABEL IN EACH GARMENT No. 104 Light Summer Weight (Bleached).........$1.25 111 Light weight, cotton................ 1.50 120 Light weight, bleached.......... 1.65 160 Medium weight, cotton........ 1.75 122 Medium weight, bleached... 190 Heavy weight, cotton............ 2.50 124 Heavy weight, bleach 150 Extra white Mercs 116 Heavy wool, mixed 4.00 2.00 118 Extra heavy wool.................. 5.00 MODEL KNITTING WORKS No. 657 Iverson St. Salt Lake City, Utah "Reliable Agents Wanted" Salt Lake City, Utah e e Attention, Friends: If you are looking for something appropriate to give your son or daughter for graduation, call on W. M. McCONAHAY The Reliable Jeweler  64So, Main St. Phone W. 1821 Salt Lake City, Utah H When Shopping Mention Relief Society Magazine Free to Every Mother ?new Catalog of Church Publications A 36-page Catalog of L. D. S. Church Publications, Bibles and Miscellaneous Books. Packed full of interesting book information. Write for z 'your free copy today?you'll prize it very highly. = We can furnish you with any Book you may wish to own, through our efficient Mail Order Department. Build up a home library for the young folks. Deseret Book Company 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City When Shopping Mention Relief Society Magazine 

The Relief Society Magazine Owned and Published by the General Board of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 
CONTENTS APRIL, 1922 

Page

Relief Society Workers Mina Madsen 177
Why I am a "Mormon" P. V. Cardon 179
Relief Society Beginnings in Utah Susa Young Gates 184
Pageant, "Come, Come, Ye Saints" 197
Jerusalem Redeemed Through the Law of Tithing 202
Bubbles and Troubles Ruth Moench Bell 205
The General Procession James H. Anderson 209
Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman 212
Editorial: The Work of the Millennium 219
Book Notices 220
Guide Lessons for June 222

ADVERTISERS' DIRECTORY
Patronize those who patronize us.

BUREAU OF INFORMATION, Temple Block, Salt Lake City, Utah
DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO., 61-3-5 Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah
DESERET BOOK CO., 44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City, Utah
THE DESERET NEWS, Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah
KEELEY'S, Salt Lake City, Utah
MODEL KNITTING WORKS, 657 Iverson Street, Salt Lake City, Utah
RELIEF SOCIETY BURIAL CLOTHES DEPARTMENT, Bishop's Building Salt Lake City
SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE, 70 Main St., Salt Lake City
UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK, Salt Lake City, Utah
Z. C. M. I., Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah
NATIONAL BANK OF COMMERCE, Ogden, Utah
McCONAHAY, Jeweler, 64 So. Main St., Phone W. 1821
S. M. TAYLOR & COMPANY, 251-57 East 1st South
UTAH CANNING COMPANY, Ogden, Utah
FLOWER SHOP, Eccles Bldg., Ogden, Utah

RELIEF SOCIETY WORKERS Mina Madsen They asked me if I'd add my mite, To chink in 'tween the heavy parts; The text must not be long or weighty, Some cheer to gladden mother hearts. And as I delved for gladsome thoughts, That I might not be stamped a shirker, Just one great theme surged in my brain "Praise for the R. S. Worker." I tried to thank some sisters once Who came to help me as a mother; "What would life be,"' said one to me, "If we could-not help each other?" And so they go, it matters not, If grand or low the residence, These noble sympathetic souls; "Relief Society Presidents." They feed the hungry, clothe the poor, And bring relief to weary mothers; Their own welfare they think not of For they are taking care of others. Each day they cheer some lonely heart, Or take some lost one by the hand; So all who know them often bless "The Great Relief Society Band." Bless't are those numbered in this band So willing, tireless, steady; Who, like colonial minute-men By day or night are ready; A call may come of grief or pain Some heads bowed low by "Death, the Lurker," No matter what, she'll always go, Blest "Relief Society worker." And when she goes to her reward, - As all must do sometime or other, She'll find a crown bedecked with stars By those who loved her as a mother. The Father'll say, "This mansion bright We kept for those who never shirk; The faithful sisters here reside, Who did Relief Society work." i 

Vol. IX APRIL, 1922 No. 4 Why I am a "Mormon" A SIMPLE STATEMENT, NOT DOCTRINAL BUT SINCERE By P. V. Cardon It has been my good fortune to travel extensively in the United States, engaged in professional work for the U. S. Department of Agriculture and different State Agricultural Colleges and Experiment Stations. Ordinarily, while traveling, the subject of religion was not discussed, except as an after-dinner topic on the gallery of a plantation home, in the lounging room of the club, in the Pullman, or in the parlor of a farm home in this county or that parish. Occasionally, also, the monotony of a long automobile trip would be broken by a discussion of religion. Such a conversation would begin in any of a number of different ways, but usually it would involve one or both of two simple questions. If my religion was unknown to the other party to the conversation, he would ask, "What's your Church?" or words to that effect. If he knew my religion, he would inquire about as follows: "Cardon, why are you a 'Mormon'?" I have been asked these questions many times, by representatives of the more common churches in this country, as well as by non-believers, even atheists, so called. My answer to the first, always has led to the second question; so, regardless of how the conversation opened, I almost invariably have had to state my reasons for being a "Mormon." Early in my experience I was prompted to reply to this question with quotations of scripture and an exhaustive review of the facts leading to the establishment and development of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints; but I soon learned that I was not qualified to reply effectively along that line. I found that my boyhood indulgence in religious work had served 180 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE to satisfy my own desires, but had failed to prepare me for making the kind of reply which always struggled for expression on such occasions as these. Moreover, I lacked the familiarity with scripture and Church doctrine that comes to the sincere missionary. The privilege of serving in the missionary field had been denied me. I had responded favorably to a mission call, but President Smith decided later that the agricultural work in which I was engaged at that time was missionary work of a highly acceptable type, so I continued the investigation of temporal instead of spiritual affairs. Not being qualified from a doctrinal standpoint, therefore, I decided to answer the question, "Why are you a 'Mormon'?" from a common-sense standpoint wholly satisfactory to myself, at least. And why not? Being a "Mormon," should I not be able to say why? If my reasons were not doctrinal, what were they? I have spent a great deal of time trying to answer that question. It is not an easy thing to do. But I have answered it, in my own way, and my answer satisfies me. I am a "Mormon" for the reasons given below, and, to me, they are sufficient reasons for my remaining a "Mormon," aside from any consideration of scripture, doctrine or covenant. I am a "Mormon" because (a) I could never have been born anything else; (b) "Mormonism" created for me a home environment that made me able to approach the problems and assume the responsibilities of life, fearlessly; (c) "Mormonism" has filled my cup with happiness; and (d) my simple belief has eased my thoughts of death, making it possible for me to look to the future with equanimity. To be able thus to state my reasons I had to begin back in the 17th century, when my paternal ancestors, who were Huguenots, probably were "forced out of France by the Edict of Nantes, in 1685, which deprived them of all security and rights so long as they clung to their religion." They settled in the Piedmont region of northern Italy; and it was there, about 158 years later, in 1843, that Thomas Bartholomew Cardon, my father, was born. When he was a mere boy, his family, including both parents, four sons and a daughter, emigrated to Utah as converts of the "Mormon" Church, Later he went to war, serving as a bugler in the Army of the Potomac. * Being severely wounded in the Battle of Gains Mill, he was sent to the rear and finally was discharged from the convalescent camp near Washington, D. C. By some means he found his way to Harrisburg, Penn., where, as an apprentice, he learned the photographic art which enabled him at last to get back to Utah. There he met and later married Lucy Smith, my mother. WHY I AM A "MORMON" 181 She had come as a girl from England, her parents having been converted to "Mormonism," and when eighteen months old she had crossed the plains, arriving in Utah in 1854. Now, it is clear that, from a biological standpoint, if from no other, I should never have been born had it not been for "Mor. Monism." My father doubtless would have lived his life in Italy, whereas my mother probably would have remained in England. Because of "Mormonism," however, I was born; and I am now duly appreciative of my inheritance. Happily, the natural inclinations of my parents prompted them to maintain wholesomeness in the home; and it is likely that they would have done so had they been of any other faith than "Mormonism." Reflection on this point, however, has convinced me that their peculiar faith caused them to be unusually solicitous when considering the welfare of their children. To them, every child was a gift of heaven, sent to them by the grace of God. The spirit of that child before being sent to earth, had lived in heaven; and it was sent to earth to enable it later to enjoy eternal life, according to the great plan of salvation. My parents, therefore, looked upon me as something holy that had been placed in their keeping. Nothing should be left undone that would be conducive to my eternal glory. The responsibility rested with them, as my parents. What a tremendous responsibility! Yet, what an incentive to proper homemaking! My recollections of my father are few; I doubt if I could now recall his face were it not for his photographs, to which I have frequently turned to refresh my memory. Yet, there are two events in his life which I shall mention because they have a bearing upon the question I am striving herein to answer. Both of these events illustrate the sustaining influence of the faith of my parents. The first was a result of the panic of 93. I do not recall the exact date of the event, nor does it matter. The important thing is that I see myself standing in a forlorn family group, watching the parade of cows, horses, wagons, buggies, machinery, etc., that passed, under the direction of the sheriff, from our home to the county court house where our goods were to be sold at public auction. One thing, I remember, was left—a phaeton, which was used for many years subsequently by my mother in her Relief Society work! I do not know the circumstances that forced that sale, but at the time there were rumors that it might have been avoided, if certain men of the same faith had not permitted their avarice to dominate their religion. Be that as it may, the only comment from my parents was to the effect that human failings could not affect the truth of "Mor- 182 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE monism." That was my first lesson in the importance of always clearly distinguishing between the acts of men and the purpose of any organization they represent. That is practical religion, call it by whatever name you may. The second event to which I have referred was at the death bed of my father. The date—February 15, 1898—was doubly impressed upon my mind, because my father died within fifteen minutes of the explosion that destroyed the battleship Maine! I was nine years old. In my mother's family there were six children older than I, and one younger, a baby. Out of the sorrow of that occasion, the thing which I have carried most vividly in my memory is the remark of my mother, made when we youngsters were gathered about her in sympathetic grief. I recall how we younger boys were quick to express a determination to help her carry the great burden now resting upon her shoulders—the burden of eight children and a mortgage on the home! Her remark embodied the assurance that father was happy and that if we lived as he had taught us to live we should all see him, and be with him, as a happy family, in the next world! What a promise! Could I ever forget it? "Honor thy father and thy mother" had not only been taught us; we had been given every reason to honor them! We honored them not because God had so commanded, but because their lives had been 'such that we could not do otherwise than honor them. You see, our parents had sensed their full duty—they had honored their parents by so living that their own children could, in turn, honor them. And the promise of being re-united in eternity with such parents could not fail to appeal to the best there was in me. What did it mean to live as he had taught me? Briefly to live as he had lived; for he had lived his religion, just as my mother is living her religion to this day. It meant a righteous, Christian life of faith, hope, charity—with emphasis on the greatest of these. It meant a proper observance of the laws of health, intellectual advancement, and fair dealing with men. It meant that I should be prepared always to. Assume my full responsibility in this life that I might be worthy of the next. That promise of reunion was made again by my mother, sixteen years later, when she pressed her lips upon the cold brow of her oldest son and murmured, "Goodby, my boy, for a little while." What faith! Is it surprising that I share it? Would it not be surprising if I did not share it? I have talked with men who believe differently, with some who think death is the end of all; I have worked in close association with men who consider such faith a pitiful remnant of man's primitive existence; I number WHY I AM A "MORMON" 183 among my best friends men who are willing to tolerate that faith in me because, happily, I possess something else which to them off-sets my "weakness;" but I thank God, nevertheless, that nothing I have seen or heard or read has ever appeared worthy to replace my faith in the future my mother has promised. Though it prove to be wrong, it is my faith; and it remains unshaken by my increasing knowledge, as I study the laws that seem to govern life on earth. The religion which made possible my life, thereby made me an American citizen, entitled to all that this government means to a man who loves it and helps to preserve it. That religion, also, is what led to the marriage of my wife's parents, thereby making possible her life; and, for the same reason, she honors her parents, as I honor mine. Further, the same religion united us and thereby made possible the lives of our children; and it is prompting us to live that we, too, may be honored as parents. Is it an exaggeration, therefore, when I state that this religion—'"Mormonism''—has filled my cup with happiness? It would be wholly wrong to say that it has done less. In view of what I have already stated, it follows naturally that I look serenely toward the future. I look upon death as a mere passing from this life to a greater one. An occasion for sorrow, certainly; but also one for rejoicing. An abiding faith in a future existence—in more than that, an eternity, with loved ones—makes it possible for me to approach death, as I am approaching it every day, experiencing a kind of thrill in the adventure of it all. In such a faith, the only fear I could have would be a fear that I have failed to live as I should live to be worthy, and thereby help others to be worthy, of what lies ahead. And what might that be—that which lies ahead? What has "Mormonism" taught me of that? Golden stairs, harps? Nothing of that sort! It is an opportunity for still greater service— a life of greater usefulness. A sphere in which to apply all I have learned and may yet learn on earth—a sphere in which to learn still more and more of the wonderfully fascinating laws which govern all life! Is it not inviting? '[Note—tThe writer of this article is now the head of the Cedar Branch Agricultural College. He spent twelve years in government service in various parts of the U. S. As an agricultural expert before returning to his home state to accept the position he now occupies.—S. Y. G.] Relief Society Beginnings in Utah Susa Young Gates The dramatic quality of Utah history is equalled only in directness, simplicity and pathos by the conquest in Canaan. Practically every individual member of the Church left tragedy behind while facing the drama of constant and swift re-adjustment which the desert valleys of Utah made essential. Few of the women escaped the historic possibilities of the changing scenes and daily environment which the settlement of Utah demanded. Developed with their other adaptable qualities, acquired or inherited, came that unusual faculty in women—humor and a sense of balance. In their labor as well as in their hours of recreation these women lightened toil and lifted burdens through the perpetuation and repetition of quips and repartee, lightening the seriousness of sewing-bees with impersonal jest and personal gossip; while even the half-hour wait before religious service in ward or tabernacle was a more or less fluttering hour of pleased greeting and vocal exchange, half subdued because of time and place, yet still vibrant with good comradeship. How like the customs of their New England forebears! The Relief Society was not forgotten although its continuance had been broken into by the long trip across the plains and the difficult conditions; still not only the memory of it lingered with those who had known it best but also the consciousness of the powers that it evoked and the freer atmosphere enjoyed through specialized spiritual activities remained with the women who had taken part in the Relief Society work in Nauvoo, and who, through experience, knew its value. The Utah pioneer women for the first winter were exceedingly busy with home-making in the rapidly built but thick-walled fort on Pioneer Square which was divided into three enclosures with the log rooms facing inward and the mud roofs leaking streams of water whenever a rainstorm occurred. They kept the provisions, these women, under the careful shelter of buffalo skins. Over their beds the husbands and fathers strapped buffalo hides or tenting to keep them from actual suffering. By the second summer, homes of one or two rooms, built of logs or the newly discovered adobes sprung up like magic, in the quarter acre lots already surveyed and apportioned to any and all applicants. By 1852 the Utah pioneers had planted orchards and garnered crops; there were built or building a council house, a tithing RELIEF SOCIETY BEGINNINGS 185 office, and a social hall; and twenty-six other towns in the surrounding region were surveyed and founded. The territory was organized with Brigham Young as its first Governor. The cricket plague had passed with the miraculous intervention of the gulls. Gold had been discovered in California by the Moron Battalion boys and thousands of gold-seekers passed through ihe new territory. All trades were represented; men could be shod, clothed, shaved, fed; trade and barter carried on between farnier and tradesman with exchange of commodity as money's equiva- 'lent. The corner-stone of the great Salt Lake Temple had been laid amid solemn ceremonies and with transcendent faith. Emigrant trains of the Saints bore through the canyon's mouth in constant relays during the spring and summer months. These emigrants must be housed, fed and ministered to until they, in turn, could erect shelter and provide foodstuffs for themselves and families. Here then each Latter-day Saint woman found her unorganized yet highly concentrated Relief Society efforts developed to fullest expression although publicly unregulated and wholly individualized. The first organized efforts of women looking to the carrying forward of the Relief Society work proper was instituted in the early 50's by a number of women in the Second ward of Salt Lake City. They have left no record of officers or members, but there is a modest mention of their sewing meetings which is found in the Ward history itself. One of the first organizations in Utah was semi-informal and effected in 1853 with Mrs. Amanda Smith of Haun's Mill fame as the first president. The sisters met in the Social Hall. Mrs. Priscilla C. Stains was secretary and treasurer. President Emmeline B. Wells attended this meeting. At this time, 1854, an Indian Relief Society was formed. But it deserves a chapter by itself. It was formed in the Thirteenth Ward Meeting House with Mrs. Matilda Dudley as president, and Martha J. Coray, as secretary. It continued in active operation for three years, and has bequeathed to us complete minutes, roll and financial reports. We will treat it in full in a subsequent chapter. Among the very early organizations was the First Ward Relief Society. That intrepid pioneer and gifted organizer, Lydia Goldthwaite Knight—herself one of the first teachers in that corps of teachers organized by Counselor Elizabeth Ann Whitney in Nauvoo—this pioneer widowed mother organized the First ward Relief Society in 1854. The record says: "The First ward Relief Society was organized in 1854, with Mrs. Lydia Goldthwaite Knight, president, and Mrs. Douglass, first counselor; Mrs. Brim, second counselor; Miss Aurelia Hawkins, secretary." There was no records preserved and the Society was 186 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE broken up during the move south. It was re-organized by Sister Eliza R. Snow, March 24, 1870, with Mrs. Miriam G. Chase, president; Mrs. Julia A. Adams, first counselor; Mrs. Sidney Thayne, second counselor; Mrs. Sarah J. Bennett, secretary; Mrs. Mariam Hawkins, treasurer. Next came the Sixteenth ward Society which was organized on the 10th of June, 1854, by Bishop Shadrach Roundy. He named it the Benevolent Society, perhaps in memory of the Prophet in giving that title to the Relief Society. The Bishop named Mrs. Pattie Sessions, as president, Utah's most famous midwife, who safely delivered over 2,000 women in childbirth and who was herself set apart in Nauvoo by the Prophet Joseph Smith for this work. Her associate officers were: Mrs. Mary Pulsipher, first counselor; Mrs. Judith H. B. Tait, second counselor; Mrs. Mercy R. Thompson, secretary; Mrs. Betsy Roundy, treasurer. January 27, 1855, a reorganization took place when the name was changed to the Relief Soc'ety, and on June 15, 1857, - according to instructions from President Brigham Young, Bishop Kesler and counselors effected the following organization: Mrs. Sophia Burgess, president; Mrs. Rozana S. Tripp, frst counselor; Mrs. Olive Walker, second counselor; Mrs. Eliza Gibbs, secretary. = In 1854, also the Seventh ward Relief Society was organized with Mrs. Elizabeth Vance as president, Mrs. Abigail Leonard as first counselor, Mrs. Dicey Perkins as second counselor, and Mrs. Patty Perkins as secretary. Later Sarah A. Snider was chosen second counselor and Mrs. Abigail A. Lees secretary. January 4, 1868, a permanent organization was effected with Mrs. Elizabeth McLelland, president, Mrs. Margaret Harrington, first counselor, Mrs. Elizabeth Huffaker, second counselor, Mrs. Mary Alice Lambert, secretary, and Mrs. Maria Thorn, treasurer. The history of the Fifteenth ward Relief Society deserves a chapter by itself, for here resided that remarkable leader, Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, and although she was not the first president of the Society, very soon thereafter there was a reorganization and she was made the head of that Society, continuing until the day of her death. The facts given in history are as follows concerning this Society: "Fifteenth ward Relief Society, organized in 1855, by Nathaniel V. Jones. "Lydia Granger, president, Susan W. Moore, secretary, Rebecca W. Jones, treasurer. "Reorganized February 8, 1857, by Bishop Ben. F. Mitchell. "Sarah M. Kimball, president, Mary Brown, first counselor, RELIEF SOCIETY BEGINNINGS 187 Mary A. Empey, second counselor, Susan M. Moore, secretary, Lovina Mitchell, treasurer. "Society broken up at time of move south. - Reorganized January 2, 1868, by Bishop Robert T. Burton. "Sarah M. Kimball, president, (which office she filled up to the date of her death, 1899). Mary Brown, first counselor, Rebecca M. Jones, second counselor, Harriet Jones, secretary, Maria Burton, treasurer, May 21, 1868." Sister Sarah M. Kimball did not come to the valley until 1852, and her youngest son was born in 1854. Sister Kimbali taught school for eight years and was always an active force in public work. She set about, immediately on her arrival, gathering and distributing charitable funds, holding sewing meetings, varied by personal testimonies; and not content with making a success of the regular work of the Relief Society she began collecting funds to erect a Relief Society house. On November 13, 1868, she had the honor of laying the corner stone of the first Relief Society hall erected in this dispensation, and the first building erected. In —— rs modern times to house women's public activities, using a silver trowel and AA. SUCIETSHARH I er mason who assisted her in this ceremony. The hall was completed in 1869, and dedicated August 5, 1869, by President Daniel H. Wells. The' building was a two-story frame building, about 20 x 30 feet and cost $2,631. The ward f— |store occupied the first: | story July 22, 1869, bring- {| ing into the Society a perpetual revenue; while the "| ward Relief Society hall | was in the second story, j),| fitted up with cheerful rag.| carpets, comfortable benches, stoves, tables and bright flowers and curtains graced all mallet furnished by a mastSead =| hall. Mrs. Sarah M. KimFitteenth Ward Relief Society Hall ball was essentially an or- 188 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ganizer. Many Relief Society enterprises were conceived by her fertile brain and afterwards adopted by that wise leader, Eliza R. Snow. Mrs. Kimball started the Deseret costume. Movement; she often advocated the printing of a woman's paper, and was the acknowledged head of the suffrage movement in the Church. She was a fluent speaker, an excellent writer, a clear and deep thinker, unusually philosophical, always logical, and was in short, a polished shaft in that eternal Panthenon where the modern qtieens among women have been enshrined. The Thirteenth ward organization was also famous in early pioneer history. Mrs. Susan Townsend was the first president when the Society was organized in 1855, but in that later whirlwind of organization undertaken by Sister Eliza R. Snow in 1868-9, Rachel R. Grant was chosen president and she, too, left her indellible mark upon the pages of Utah history. She was another of those queenly women whose dignity, wisdom and leadPIONEER OFFICERS OF THE 13th WARD RELIEF SOCIETY Sitting: left, Mrs. Margaret T. Mitchel; center, Mrs. Rachel I. Grant; right, Mrs. Bethsheba W. Smith; standing: left, Mrs. Emymeline B. Wells; center, Mrs. Elizabeth H. Goddard; right, Mrs. Mary W. Musser. RELIEF SOCIETY BEGINNINGS 189 ership set them apart in the highest niches of famous heroines. Deaf for many years, her spirit was yet so active, so keenly attuned to light and intelligence that few suspected her ailment, and she often picked up the thread of thought and conversation in the assemblies of social gatherings of the Saints and voiced her own conclusions so appropriately and so ably that her associates marveled afresh at the keenness of her spiritual comprehension—a supernatural keenness. The early records of the Fourteenth ward Relief Society— that famous germinal woman's organization which was organized in 1855—have been lost or destroyed; but Mrs. Phoebe Woodruff—another pioneer stalwart—was made president in 1857, and the following history from the Deseret News indicated the activity of that excellent organ'zaton: "Fourteenth ward Relief Society, organized in 1855, but ne records kept. In the Deseret News, May 20, 1857 a quarterly report was published showing Mrs. Phoebe W. Woodruff, president, Mrs. Keziah D. Pratt, treasurer. Receipts of Society for one quarter................$200.09 Paid out to the P. E. Fund............ 126.00 Charity 2.0.0... Ccc cece eee eee 10.44 Balance............. Ccece ence eceeee 63.56 $200.00 "Permanent organization, Dec. 12, 1867, by Bishop Abraham Hoagland, Mrs. Mary Isabelle Horne, pres'dent, Mrs. Wilmirth Fast, first counselor, Mrs. Susan Wilkinson, second counselor, Miss Jennie Seaman, secretary, Mrs. Elmina S. Taylor, treasurer. May 26, 1868, Miss Jennie Seaman resigned and Mrs. Elmina S. Taylor was chosen secretary (which office she filled for over thirty years). Mrs. Martha T. Cannon, assistant secretary, Mrs. Laura M. Miner, treasurer. "In the Fall of 1869, the Society held a fair and it was voted to be the finest of the kind yet held in Salt Lake City, took a prize for the best display of useful and ornamental articles, the proceeds was used for the erection of a hall for the Society. In 1870 a commodious brick build'ng was erected, 32 x 32, two stories high, lower part occupied by ward store bringing in a permanent revenue, cost $2,500, amount being raised by the Cooperative Association and the Relief Society, dedicated by Daniel H. Wells, Dec. 16, 1870." The organization of the Third ward occurred in January, 1856, and the following brief account is given in their ward records: Third ward Relief Society was organized, January, 1856, with Mrs. Margaret Turner, president, Mrs. Ann Murdock, 190 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE first counselor, Mrs. Jacobina Williams, second counselor. Reorganized by Bishop Weiler, January 13, 1868, Mrs. Elizabeth Weiler, president, Mrs. Ann T. Wright, first counselor, Mrs. Jacobina Williams, treasurer. The Sixth ward Relief Society was organized, April 15, 1857, by Bishop Hickenlooper, with Mrs. Sarah Hickenlooper, president, Mrs. Isabella West, first counselor, Mrs. Rhoda A. Fullmer, second counselor. The Society included members from the Fifth ward. After the move south, the Society was reorgan'zed on the 18th of December, 1867, by Bishop Hickenlooper. The officers were: Mrs. Rhoda A. Fullmer, president, Mrs. Sarah Thompson, first counselor; Mrs. Annie Hickenlooper, second counselor and secretary; Sarah W. Hickenlooper, treasurer. In 1868 Mrs. Mart T. Davis was chosen secretary. Later she resigned, and on March 4, 1869, Mrs. Catherine M. Anderson was made secretary. The Eleventh ward Relief Society was organized April 4, 1857, by Bishop McRae with Mrs. Sarah Bowman, president, Mrs. Jane Black, first counselor, Mrs. Margaret D. McMaster, second counselor, Mrs. Louisa R. Taylor, secretary, Mrs. Ann Cotlam, treasurer. After the move south this Society was re-organized March 3, 1868, with Mrs. Eunice McRae, president, Mrs. Sarah Bean, first counselor, Mrs. Margaret Hoggan, second counselor, Mrs. Ann Coulam, secretary, Mrs. Elizabeth D. Lee, assistant secretary, Mrs. Margaret D. McMaster, treasurer. Early in the fifttes Mrs. Sarah Woodard, Mrs. Coleburn, Mrs. Ann McGregor, Mrs. Sarah Smith Wheeler and others felt the need of taking care of the sick and needy in the ward, so held sewing meetings for that purpose, but left no record, and in 1858, when the move south began, they divided all they had on hand among those in need. January 11, 1868, a Relief Society was organized by Fines H. Young, with Mrs. Nicoline Olsen as president, Mrs. Ann McGreagor as first counselor, Mrs. Annie Marie Jensen as second counselor, Mrs. Margaret Ann Woodard as secretary, and Mrs. Ann Corbett as treasurer. In September of the same year the Society was visited by Eliza R. Snow and Zina D. Young, when all the off'cers were set apart. The Fourth ward Relief Society was organized February 8, 1868, by Bishop Thomas Jenkins. The officers were: Mrs. Mary Goodsell, president, Mrs, Elizabeth Preece, first counselor, Mrs. Mary Mosley, second counselor, Mrs. Susan Davey, secretary, Mrs. Mary Goodsell, treasurer. There were six teachers and twenty-one members. There was no Fifth ward organization then, as they met with the Society of the Sixth ward. RELIEF SOCIETY BEGINNINGS 191 The Ninth ward Relief Society was organized February 4, 1868, by Bishop Samuel A. Wooley. The officers were: Mrs. Catherine A. Woolley, president; Mrs. Sarah A. Groo, first counselor; Mrs. Sarah B. Gibson, second counselor; Mrs. Maria L. Woolley, secretary; Mrs. Mary J. Groo, treasurer. This is a remarkable show-ng of organized effort, when one remembers the untoward conditions, the daily struggles with the elements, the constant influx of emigrants with resulting hospitality of the most personal and taxing character. The women were awake. Only time and a leader were needed. Not all of the early work was done by the women in Salt Lake City. Down in Nephi lived one of the Church heroines, Mrs. Amelia Goldsbrough, staunch in her integrity, degnified in her thought and manner, a born leader and organizer, she effected the organization of the Relief Society, under the charge cf the bishop, on the 23rd of June, 1858: Mrs. Amelia Goldsbrough, president; Elizabeth Kendall, first counselor; Jane Pixton, second counselor; Amy L. Bigler, secretary; Frances Andres, treasurer. Thirty teachers were selected as a visiting committee. Number of officers and members, 144. Unquestionably there were other circles and organ/'zations centered throughout Salt Lake City itself and the cities and towns located by this time throughout the valleys of the mountans, and -we have the record of at least twelve branches of the Society organized before the first decade of the settlement of these valleys. Yet the organizations so formed and the work accompl'shed was largely local in scope and more or less limited in fulfilment. President Brigham Young and his associates were engaged in founding cities, establishing industries, providing homes and occupation for the thousands of incoming emigrants; the men were planting crops, watching Ind'ans, and providing for the education and amusement of the children and their parents, so that the organized labors of the women had not yet. Received full attention. The woman to whom the Prophet, no doubt, and the angels of heaven had committed the carrying forward of the complete designs for the full fruit'on of woman's public activities, lay sick, first in the log row 'and then in the Lion House, where Brigham Young made homes for the noble women of his household. Eliza R. Snow was suffering from the results of exposure and persecution and was an invalid, confined to her bed for over ten years. That other lovely and spiritual mother in Israel, Elizabeth Ann Whitney, who had been first counselor in the Relief Society of Nauvoo, although possessed of tender. Sympathy and wide reaching humanity, which qualified her eminently to act as counselor to a leading spirit, was not a natural leader. 192 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Therefore, she, too, with the women of the Latter-day Saints unconsciously awaited the recovery of Eliza R. Snow, wife of the Prophet Joseph Smith, counselor to Brigham Young in all matters pertaining to women and children's interests, definitely appointed leader, organizer, writer, poetess and woman. Sister Eliza was too modest and too full of the Christ spirit to assume, even in her own thought, honor to herself or to be tainted with selfish ambition and love of worldly display; for ten years 1848- 1858 this good woman lay patiently suffering, apparently in the last stages of consumption. The work of a general reorganization was to come about in due time. Meanwhile, other great and noble women—queens in their own right, heroines as they were—made homes, taught school, cooked, sewed, made candles, carded, spun and wove, and were Latter-day Saints, full of charity and without guile. These thousands of women ministered to one another's necessities, both in organized and unorganized capacities, always comforting themselves and one another by ministering the ordinances of washing and anointing for sick children and for confinement when needful or desirable. They attended Sabbath meetings faithfully, meeting occasionally in little home testimony meetings, as well as joining vocally in the testimony meetings of the Saints held the first Thursday in each month in every ward meetinghouse, where men and women alike kept the spirit alive by the renewal of faith and testimony from week to week and from month to month. Thus passed the first decade of Utah history—thus labored" and toiled men and women, side by side, working one for the other and all for the common good. Each individual contained a world in himself, yet each Saint recognized that the good of the whole is more important than the interest of any one individual, and thus communal and individual forces united in both sexes for the spiritual and temporal evolut'on of the Latter-day Saints in the valleys of the mountains. In 1857, July 24, occurred the picnic in Big Cottonwood, - that never-to-be-forgotten episode when the men and women of Salt Lake City were gathered round the shores of Silver Lake celebrating the tenth anniversary of their entrance to the valley. In the midst of the'r festivities came two messengers, A. O. Smoot and Porter Rockwell, travel-stained and anxious to bring the startling tidings that the United States had sent an army which was then upon the borders of the territory, to crush out the "Mormon" people. Brigham Young, with characteristic coolness, kept the news from the party until such time as himself, and council had. Thoroughly decided upon their plans. Then he bade the people quietly to complete their day's pleasures and to return as quietly to their homes. RELIEF SOCIETY BEGINNINGS 193 How did the women receive this news? As women always have, and as women always will, when they are animated with an unselfish love of freedom, leavened with that same grasp of human emotions which comes from the exercise of self-control and trust in God. There was no excitement, not even a tearful eye, the women had perfect trust; first, in their God; second, in their leader, Brigham Young; and always in their husbands and themselves to meet any new conditions. The curtain had been raised on the second act of Utah's drama, and these—the consummate life-actors took their places without haste and without personal fear. History describes for us the preparation of the soldier boys who were sent out to prevent the army from entering the valley in the winter by the careful hands of mothers and sisters who knitted home-made socks and long, thick-knitted comforters which were the only overcoats known in those pioneer days. The following spring President Young decided to make a strategic move into Utah county, withdrawing all the women and children from their comfortable city homes which dotted the wide expanse of the ten-year old city, leaving within these same houses, piles of brushwood guarded only by a few dauntless men who were instructed to set fire to the whole place if the soldiery showed any disposition to deface or appropriate the property of the Saints. One dauntless and lovely woman, Mrs, Priscilla C. Stains, when questioned by the United States commiss'oner who later came to adjudicate matters, replied: "Sir, I would myself set fire to my home and all that it contains rather than permit the depredations I have seen committed in Nauvoo and other places where our people have been mobbed and driven." That was the spirit of those "Mormon" heroines. For one year, or practically so, the people dwelt in and about Provo, crowding in to the rude log or adobe homes there erected, sometimes three families in one room surrounded by wagon-box bedrooms or tents, making of the one room a general kitchen and living room. In the spring of 1858, the people returned to Salt Lake City, and again the work-of the Relief Society here and there was resumed, but as yet there was no definite head to the movement. It was left with bishops and such women of the ward as desired to take it up. When the people returned from Provo, it was to f'nd a new cend. Tion in their beautiful city. Camp Floyd had been planted out in Cedar Valley and soldiers came and went upon the road. A saloon was established by a non-"Mormon" on Maiii street which thrived and flourished apace. With this influx of strangers came many of the conditions which might be expected to follow. Attracted by the brass buttons and military bearing of the soldiers, 194 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE no less than by the worldly-wise manner of the soldiers who accepted a double standard of virtue as part of life's meaning, a few of the "Mormon" people absorbed more or less of the worldly atmosphere, and some became very restless and finally drifted into the camp itself. Considering, however, the nature of the temptations, and the lack of sympathy and understanding between the two classes of people, it was very surprising that there was so little defection and so few girls who were lured away. Soldiers brought their own camp followers with them naturally, and such vice and drunkenness as were practiced did not penetrate the closely-guarded circles of the "Mormon" youth. A few brethren, among whom was Oliver W. Huntington who then lived in Springville, became alarmed over the presence of these soldiers, and the snare which it constituted for the young girls of the county. These brethren visited President Young and asked, if it would be possible to build stockade walls around the cities to prevent the soldiers from coming in at night, and the girls from going out. President Young listened to their tale and. Replied sagely, "You cannot build a wall high enough to keep men out who want to come in, nor to keep girls in who want to go out. Teach them correct principles as the Prophet Joseph taught us, and they will learn to govern thémselves. Those few who have gone away from their homes will come back some day and be glad to eat the crumbs from their fathers' tables." Such were the elements of tragedy which were woven like dark threads into the web of life during the next decade of Utah's history. The education of women at this period was necessarily empirical to a degree. Girls went to the Primary schools and received, as in Nauvoo, equal advantages with their brothers. The further development of education for girls will be treated in a separate chapter. The socal life of the new territory was patterned minutely after the splendid simplicity and companionship of the Kirtland and Nauvoo communities. Protected for a period by their isolation from practically both fear and temptation men and women developed community life to its highest and most glorious ach'evement. Balls, where dancing and feasting were interspersed by songs and religious exhortations, broke the monotony of the long winter months. Picn'cs for the whole community varied the strenuous labors of the summer season. Particularly popular were day excursions into City Creek canyon and into Pleasant Valley vale where tents and huge hampers of picnic, games of quoits, Copenhagen, and rope-jumping sped the hours away. Who could ever forget, that ever got up at dawn and found mother's clothes-basket filled with layer upon layer of molasses cakes, "service-berry" pies, roast chickens, salt rising bread, and chokecherry jelly—could RELIEF SOCIETY BEGINNINGS _ 195 forget the start in the early morning, the ride in the hay-filled wagon box, with other laughing, roistering children or young people, the feel of wine in the air, as the canyon breezes fanned the faces, and the rush of City Creek canyon which struck a full chord of sylvan joy? The marquet tent would be there with cooks and waiters, boxes or dishes, piles of food and mothers busy preparing for the three hearty meals which were to punctuate the day's festivities. The exercises would begin, as alwys, with the morning prayer, and close with the evening benediction before camp was broken. Music and laughter, hill climbing, and pin-hook fishing, graced the day's program. Afternoon quilting and rag sewing bees furnished opportunity for frequent visiting among the women, and if there was a bit of pioneer gossip exchanged as the needles flew, what wonder! Far more frequent were the cessation of all labor just an hour before supper to permit a little "experience" or testimony-meeting to lift the overburdened spirits of the women into a rarified ' spiritual atmosphere. Theatre entertainments were also frequent. Most towns had their own theatrical company, and while Salt Lake boasted its pioneer Dramatic Association other such associations duplicated it in all the large centers of the territory. The characterist'c "Charcoal Burner" and the "Rough Diamond" rubbed shoulders on the theatre program with the "Marble Heart" and "Richelieu." In all of these festivities women bore their usual share and more; for such freedom of thought and action had been begotten, through the attrition of the Nauvoo Relief Society activities and the subsequent labors of other such societies scattered throughout the territory, that it was impossible for women to retreat into the background of silence and inattention to public affairs. Perhaps one of the most remarkable phases of the community's development, both for men and women, was the absorption, by the constantly increasing trains of European emigrants, of American ideals, sweetened and mellowed for "Mormon" people by the deeper note of universal service which permeated every social and domestic activity. '"We must act upon principle" was so often upon the ips of women in this foundation-laying time that the rough edges of a too-quickly acquired American independence of word and deed were mitigated for the European emigrant by hearing that oft repeated slogan, "act upon principle." Emigrants who came from foreign countries many of whom had never owned a foot of land, who had labored for a pittance, and whose views were circumscribed by poverty and dominated by class prejudices, these emigrants, when of the blood of Israel, quickly absorbed the germinal principles of liberty and equality of opportunity which is the keynote of this Government and _ this 196 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Church, so that the second generation were not only an improvement upon the parents but oftentimes an unbelievable improvement upon the nation from which they sprang. The allurements of the world drifted gradually into the new Territory of Utah, not only through the soldiery, which finally moved from Camp Floyd, but which were later bivouacked at Camp Douglas, but also by the constant 'nflux of gold seekers' trains, who made of the territory a half-way house between Missouri river and the Golden Gate. These influences had little effect upon the women who had chosen courageously to enter the Church of Christ, in spite of the opposition of friends and the persecution of the world, but always there were those in whom the seed of truth had found only stony ground, or whose extreme youth and inexperience permitted. Vanity and selfish desires to blow away from the surface of their souls the scantily sown seed. Growing up, too, was an army of. Young women who, because of their isolation and solid commun''ty environment, had little occasion to put forth courage or intitiative in devoting themselves to religious duty. For these always the older and sounder women felt and exercised a great maternal care. The Relief Society was organized not only to feed the hungry, and clothe the naked, min'ster to the dying and robe the dead for their last resting place—it was also organized by the Prophet Joseph Smith, as he distinctly explained, to watch over the souls of women and girls when natural weakness of character rendered such guardianship necessary. And so the years sped on, and the non-""Mormon" element increased in the midst of the people, while the increasing emigration of poor Saints from the old countries made it imperative for President Brigham Young to consider the re-habilitat'on of the Relief Society in a great general movement. A piece of rubber tubing will be found a most desirable addition to the kitchen equipment, especially if you have running water. A piece three-quarters of an inch in diameter will fit over the faucet in the sink, and it will be easy enough to siphon the water into the wash boiler on the back of the stove, thus eliminating many trips and the lifting of heavy bucketfuls of water. The water can be siphoned from the boiler to tubs or from boiler or tubs to the sink. The tube must of course first be filled with water, and a thumb placed tightly over each end of the tubing to prevent the intake of air. Many other uses will be found for it once the tubing is tried out. Pageant —"Come, Come, Ye Saints" Written for the Wasatch Stake Relief Society CHARACTERS AND COSTUMES Brigham Young, William Clayton, "Dying Man,' Three Pioneer Women, Two Children, Five Pioneer Men, Eight Indian Girls, One Indian Man, Two Squaws, Two Indian Children. Dress as near as possible to represent characters as they really were. The Spirit of the Desert. Dressed as a witch with gray cap and long, gray cape. In last act this garb is thrown off showing her dressed in a costume to represent a rose. "Fatih, "Truth," Sacrifice"? Young girls dressed in white Grecian costumes, each having a wreath of flowers, representing the faith, truth and sacrifice of the Pioneers. Jim Bridger. Trappers' costume. EPISODE I. Pageant reader reads prologue: PROLOGUE We earnestly pray to thee, our Father dear, To shed thy Holy Spirit upon those assembled here, ' That this night our hearts may be attuned To that Spirit which prompted the boy Prophet to utter his first prayer, This simple prayer, asked in faith believing, Which has brought to man salvation's plan. For he came as a herald of truth, Proclaiming the way of life. May we in song and in words Give praise to the man who communed with Jehovah, And who brought forth the truth in the last dispensation, And praise those who, staunch and true, by their prophet stood, Doing all that mortal could. With the call of, "Come, come, ye Saints, We'll find the place that God for us prepared," And with one accord we'll flee to our mountain retreat Where the Saints will be blessed. For sacrifices bring forth the blessings of heaven. 198 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Help us, Lord, to realize The great atoning sacrifice; And we ever pray that strength be given us To do our part and to do your will. "Tf any man lack wisdom, let him ask of God, who giveth to all men liberaly and upbraideth not, and it shall be given him." Quartetté sing, "O how lovely was the morning," while Joseph 'Smith is shown in attitude of prayer. (Lights) Curtain. Out in front of curtain male voices sing, "Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah." Story of transfiguration is told. Brigham Young gives revelation to all the Church. Have all characters on stage at this time. Brigham Young gives first revelation to them. (Read Sec. 136 Doc. And Cov.) Then calling William Clayton to him (Brigham Young) says: "Brother Clayton, I want you to write a hymn that the people can sing at their campfires in the evening; something that will give them succor and support, and help them to forget their troubles and trials of their journey." Wiliam Clayton: "Very well, President Young, with the Spirit and help of the Lord, I will do so." (Ail leave the stage except Elder Clayton; he kneels in attitude of prayer. All lights are out except a flash light thrown on Elder Clayton while in prayer and while writing the song, giving idea of "Light of inspiration." He writes about two minutes, then President Young enters. Elder Clayton gives his song to him, and while they are pretending to read it, the quartette. Sings the four verses of "Come, come, ye Saints." The quartette is behind the scenes). Curtain. One of ie pioneer women tells the following story, in the first person: The bugle call for courage, "Come, come, ye Saints," was given as we set out to make that long journey of fifteen hundred miles over trackless plains, sandy deserts, and rocky mountains. We knew not where we were going, still the bugle call—'We'll find the place which God for us prepared, far away in the West." I wish to relate an incident that happened as we were traveling on our journey. (The incident-referred to is given on page 60 of the Jannary, 1921, Relief Society Magazine. When she finishes the line "He had been quite sick," etc., the curtain rises and the "Dying PAGEANT—*COME,; COME, YE SAINTS" 199 Man" accompanied by Brigham Young and William Clayton, who suppor: iim enters, sits down on a rock by camp fire and sings, in sweet clear voice the last verse of the song. All pioneers weep, bum fs not join with him, as usual. After he sings he rises and exits. Curtain INTERLUDE II Pioneer lady finishes story. EPISODE II Scene I. (Desert scene to represent the Salt Lake Valley, before the pioneers came. Have stage as desolate as possible. Have skins of animals hanging around, bones, sagebrush, etc., the Spirit of the Desert stands at right front of stage, in witches attitude, Indians give dance. Jim Bridger stands at left, back of stage waiting and watching the dance.) INTERLUDE IIT (Use your own material.) Scene II. (Curtain rises, same as scene I, of episode II with s'age empty. President Young and two pioneer men entering, inspecting everything. All pioneers come in looking around. All have disappointed, discouraged look. One lady says: "President Young, I would rather travel another thousand miles than stay here." President Young: "No! This is the place. I have seen st all before.": 'Col. Bridger enters, left front of stage and says: "T am Col. Bridger, I would like to talk to the leaders of the pioneer band." President Young steps forward: "I am President Young, the leader of this band of Pioneers." Col. Bridger: "Mr. Young, I have traveled all over this inter-mountain country and all over the valley of the Great Salt Lake, hunting and trapping, and I do not think it would be prudent for you to continue immigration here until you ascertain whether grain will grow or not. Why! I would give a thousand dollars for the first bushel of grain grown in the Valley of the Great Salt Lake." President Young: 'We have been led here by the power and inspiration of our heavenly Father, and I am entirely satisfied 200 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE with the appearance of this valley as a resting place for the Saints, and feel amply repaid for this journey." Curtain INTERLUDE IV Song—"The Desert shall blossom as the rose." Tune, "Utah, Queen of the West," composed for this occasion by Mrs. H. L. McMullin. "Oh, those brave honest hands, Who have come from many lands, Truth and loyalty were burning in each breast, They were led o'er the road, By the Prophet of God, To the Rockies, far out in the west. "Mid those moun'ains so grand, In this God-favored land, They found freedom from all of their foes; With their thrift and great care, And in answer to prayer, They have made the desert blossom as the rose." (Have someone read "High on the mountain top," or sing the hymn. Also, "Utah, my country" instead of "America, my country." EPISODE III "Desert Shall Blossom as the Rose.". (Have stage set with a bed of flowers, and as beautiful as you can make it. Curtain rises with, "Faith, Truth and Sacrifice" on stage. They give a fairy dance. The music they dance to was, "The Gospel Message.' Spring song, page 132, "Relief Society Song Book." They exit after dance. "Spirit of the Desert,' centers, walking very slowly, and stooped over. As she enters trio sings behind scenes Stephens' anthem, "The Desert shall blossom as the rose?' As she gets to front of stage, she stands erect throwing cape off, and sings "The desert shall. Blossom as the rose.' All characters enter and all sing, audience also, "Come, come, ye Saints." Brigham Young and Pioneer man enter stage.) President Young: "We have been accused of being disloyal to our country, America, favored above all lands, in so much that God has called it the promised land. In this valley we will unfurl the flag that is dear to our hearts, as a sign to the world that we are loyal to our country and flag." PAGEANT—'COME, COME, VE SAINTS" 201 (Flag is unfurled and audience stands and sings, "Star Spangled Banner." ) Epilogue: In song and in words has the story been told of the restoration of the gospel in the latter days. How the Lord chose Joseph Smith to be the instrument in bringing forth the light through the veil of darkness. We have heard from the very beginning how the work of the Lord in the last days met with opposition, and Satan's efforts to prevent the upbuilding of Zion and the establishment of the Church. Amid all these hard-. Ships and persecutions the Saints showed their true worth by heroically carrying on the divine work. To the Rocky Mountains these pioneers fled for refuge and religious freedom. They desired to worship God according to the free dictates of their conscience and to live clean, honorable lives. A finer, nobler type of people couldn't be found than the "Mormon" pioneers. The history of the pioneers is full of experience, bitter and sweet, and of glorious achievements and success. But what of the future? It is full of life and hope. The destiny of the future is in the hands of this generation. If the youth of Zion remain faithful, the glory of the future is assured. Our only means of living true to the faith is through the glorious ideals and principles with which our parents and grandparents have endowed us. By taking an active part in the Church, and fulfiling all duties and responsibilities cheerfully, and truly living our religion, we may take advantage of every opportunity that comes our way to spread the gospel both at home and abroad. May our actions speak louder than words. Sing "Doxology." NO RETURNING. Remember, three things come not back: The arrow sent upon its track— It will not swerve, it will not stay Its speed, it flies to wound or slay; The spoken word, so soon forgot By thee, but it has perished not; In other hearts 'tis living still, And doing work for good or ill; And the lost opportunity That cometh back no more to thee; * In vain thou weepest, in vain dost yearn— Those three will nevermore return. From the Arabic. Jerusalem Redeemed Through the Law of Tithing One of the most interesting developments in the efforts making by the Zionist organization to redeem the ancient land of Jerusalem and Palestine is shown in the recent announcement that they shall adopt the law of Tithing or as they term it "Maaser." Contribution to the Zionist fund both in Europe and America has been necessarily spasmodic and very uncertain for any business proposition or financial enterprise. The Zionists are trying to conduct Hebrew schools. They have instituted a hosptal, a medical unit; they are building houses and financing the poor and ragged emigrants who pour into that land by the thousands every month. Modern machinery for agriculture and associated trades costs a great sum of money. Irrigation is necessary and the Zionist authorities find themselves seriously handicapped by the uncertainty of their contributions from generousminded patrons. In consequence of this, they have prepared a little book, the details of which we illustrate on the opposite page. ' The weekly newspaper published by the Zionist organization in New York in its issue of January 27th has the. Following article: "THE MAASER BOOK" "Israel Will Not Be Redeemed Except Through the, Power of Maaser" This little book will serve as a record of your devotion to the Jewish people in the greatest moment of its history. Preserve it in your family to show your children and. Your children's children that you have helped in the rebuilding of Palestine as the Jewish Homeland. These simple but touching words greet the recipient of the neat little Maaser book which is being issued by the Keren Hayesod Bureau for America to Maaser prayers. In its formal or mechanical aspect the little book serves as a record of Maaser payments. In its emotional and historic aspect it represents one of the noblest and most ancient Jewish institutions revived and dedicated to the rebuilding of the Jewish Homeland in Palestine." WHAT IS MAASER? Time was when the word Maaser was as familiar to every Jew as the Ten Commandments or the "Shema." The Keren JERUSALEM REDEEMED © 203 Hayesod 'is again making Maaser a familiar thing, a Jewish institution: Maaser is the ancient Jewish tithe or ten per cent tax on income. It is as old as the Jewish people. Its purpose, in the past, was to provide the means with which to maintain the Jewish national institutions and the Jewish Kehillahs (communities); in the present its purpose is. To provide the means with which to rebuild the Jewish National Home in Palestine.; Its: method, in the past, was the levying of a ten percent tax by the Jewsh state or Kehillah upon the income of every individual; in the present, it is a tax self-imposed by -each individual on his or her income. The task which the Jewish people must accomplish in rebuilding Palestine is so immense that without Maaser it cannot be accomplished. With Maaser, Palestine is sure to be rebuilt to the credit and glory of all Israel. THE MAASER "SCALE" In November, 1921, there came together in New York City some 400 delegates representing Keren Hayesod workers in the United States. One of the things the conference did, the most important perhaps, was to interpret the principle of Maaser and embody it in definite rules and formulas. A minimum Maaser scale was formally adopted. It enables every individual to figure out what his Maaser should be. The scale is as follows: Maaser of incomes $2,000 or less...........--..-----$ 25.00 Maaser of incomes between $2,000 and $3,000.......... 50.00 Maaser of incomes between $3,000 and $4,000.......... - 100.00 Maaser of incomes between $4,000 and $5,000.......... 150.00 Persons whose income is in excess of $5,000 are required to pay Maaser, 10 per cent, upon that amount which is subject to the United States Income Tax. The figures, of course, are minimum. Figures, the least a man or woman must pay to be enrolled as a Maaser payer and receive the Maaser Book. In answer to a question, Mr. Peter J. Schweitzer, who heads the growing list of Maaser payers in the United States, replied: "Yes, it is a difficult thing to make people Maaser payers. That is quite true. Rebuilding the Jewish Homeland is a difficult undertaking. Not -so many years ago the whole thing looked like a dream. It was a very difficult thing to get people to subscribe to the idea. Today, how many Jews are there who will not subscribe to it? "And Jews will become Maaser payers. They will pay because mam in A SUNY i~—. EA my WA" T) Ee HE moment has arrived 2: for the concentration G upbuilding of the Jew- = ish National Home in SOONG Vy ' i i 'y NM nf - is t) Palestine "The purpose of the Keren Hayesod is to bring about the early settlement of Palestine by Jews in steadily increasing numbers, to enable immigration to begin without delay and to provide fer the eeonomic development of the country. "The Keren Hayesod mv oet take the form of self-taxation inspired by the noble Jewish tradition of Maaser Tithe." From Manifesto a? The Keren Hayesod in the United States of America. IN } NOOO tA One \ 5 AN.: () we pons baw poe" "syyn mists _ h; why poss bev rete "super mora f\ Wit) By yy ue Wy Serial NN NUE KerenHavesop Bureau & 5OUnion Square New York OVUNONGPARNRINRIODEE nen l sevecengoneneey 0 es 7 AN q y > A 0) q > mol mye now? Wpd ww 5O $9279 a aa nnnniise FAC-SMILE OF MAASER BOOK of Jewish efforts on the at) JERUSALEM REDEEMED. 205 they must, because there is no other way—because their honor and their future are pledged to the rebuilding of the Jewish Homeland." The little Maaser Book resembles a great deal the ordinary bank pass book. Maaser payments are entered as they are made. It is issued only to those who have paid in the minimum sum of $25.00 to the Keren Hayesod. It contains part of Dr. Weizmann's first manifesto to the Jews of America in behalf of the Keren Hayesod. Its keynote is the quotation from the Talmud: "Israel will not be redeemed except through the 'power of Maaser." Bubbles ana Troubles By Ruth Moench Bell Cuapter VII Several months passed and save for enthusiastic cards from Rhea and her husband, there was little of note from them. They were on the circuit and seemed to be "making good." "It is the dream of my life," Rhea wrote. She loved Barney more every day. And he seemed to grow fonder of her, if that were possible. He was devotion itself. They had been side-tracked a time or two and been without funds. One night they had gone into a corn-field and helped themselves to the corn. Then gathered rubbish on the outskirts of town, scrubbed a tin can and cooked the corn and ate the stolen meal to save going supperless to bed. Her act was taking well, now. Marjory, also, had married though only a trifle over eighteen. The Leslies had been divorced. She had been granted alimony and the big home in the fashionable district, also the tiny cottage they built when they were first married. Her alimony was enottgh to keep up appearances in the big house. But not sufficient for her to do any entertaining whatever, and food and clothes would have to be purchased with the most rigid economy. Soon, however, word came that Leslie's business was going down at such an alarming rate that no alimony would be possible. Then Ethel sent for Edith to come and see her. "What shall I do," she wailed. "Not another cent of alimony can I hope for. The two houses are mine, but I can't keep up this big place on the small rent from the little one. Edith longed to say: "How about Mitchell Leslie? How is 206 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE he getting along? He has neither home nor income nor a sympathetic companion." But very wisely she said nothing of him. "Why not rent this big place and live in the little one. The rent from this would keep you in food and clothes." "But what about my pride?" was on the point of Ethel's tongue to say. She checked herself and only remarked, "I suppose I'll have to. Since I've had to give up entertaining, scarcely ariyone comes to see me or invites me out any more, I'll have to swallow my pride and go back there, I suppose.", Edith refrained from comment. She remembered when pride was not the dominant passion in her sister's life. Or rather she remembered when pride over that same tiny cottage had been a dominant passion in Ethel's life, dominant over everything but love, her love for Mitch, as she called him-in those days, before he became "Mitchell" or my husband, "Mr. Leslie." And somehow this particular afternoon in the beautiful home so luxuriously furnished as to seem almost oriental, Ethel still so richly and fashionably dressed for she had apparently sacrificed food for clothes, was all less real than a certain afternoon some nineteen years ago. Ethel, a newly-wed had undergone an operation to have her tonsils removed, and had taken ether. The operation seemed so slight she had not deemed it necessary to wait till her husband should return from a business trip he was on so he could be with her. Edith had always regretted that he had not heard Ethel's ether murmurings. The real feelings and character of a person is so often revealed at such times. And Ethel's cries had all been for her husband. Edith had tried to sooth her, but she had only begged for "Mitch." "Where is Mitch?" she would cry, "Oh, won't you send for Mitch?" And once she had cried so pathetically, "I once was Mitch's wife," as if that were the greatest honor a woman could know. "I once was Mitch's wife! Who am I now?" It was these words that rang in Edith's ears now. She remembered how the doctors and nurses had felt as they heard Ethel call so insistently for her "Mitch." Every one who heard the cry had felt how beautiful was such a love. 'And now she had released him without a thought, apparently, except for alimony. She was going back to the little cottage in which they had been so happy, and going with never a thought save for her wounded pride and the loss of superficial friends. Apparently, of course, for who can judge? The following year brought little change save in the affairs of Rhea. They gave up vaudeville temporarily and her husband accepted a position with a motion picture company. "But I want him out of it," Rhea wrote to Marjory. "None BUBBLES AND TROUBLES 207 of these people take marriage seriously. None of them understand or could respect our beautiful love. They would only scoff or think it fun to get him away from me." Soon came news of the arrival of a daughter to Rhea. "She is a love child," Rhea wrote. "We call her Betty. She is so tiny, so dainty and exquisite, all soul and love in a béautiful body. She seems to be a lovely angel that has floated into our arms to nestle there and love us and be loved. But I must go back to vaudeville, Marjory. I am jealous of these women who act with Barney. They are so careless of their caresses. And while Barney does not seem to notice them and thinks only of Betty and me I must get him away and keep him away." Marjory, safe in the shelter of her home with her baby boy, read the next letter written nearly a year later, with vague alarm. "Betty is nearly a year old, now," Rhea's letter announced. "And we are going back to vaudeville. Our act has been accepted and we are booked right through to Chicago. We are looking forward to seeing you soon." "Mother," Marjory exclaimed, "how can they? Who will take care of the baby? One year old and eating at hotels and cafes! Oh, how will she stand it and summer coming on?" Neither Marjory nor her mother were surprised a few weeks later, when Rhea almost stumbled into the house. In the gocart outside, lay a thin wisp she called Betty. "Aunt Edith, can you take her? I've only an hour or so to catch the train and get to B—— for my act. I can't take her to mother. I can't bear that any one should have her that would think of her as a burden and not want to be bothered with her. She is all love and I want her loved. And mother still feels hard toward Barney and me. I hope Marjory never has to go through what we have endured. She has had summer complaint and I've had to wheel her into alleys back of theatres and leave her there, vomiting and covered with flies, while I ran in to do my act. Once I hailed a Greek woman I'd never seen before and asked her to stay with Babe while I ran on to do a bright, dancing 'act in gay costumes. Sometimes we have had dates canceled and been without funds. Several times we have spent the day in public parks with nothing for us to eat and only a bottle of milk for baby. Oh, it isn't all roses, Auntie. But we love each other and we must make a living. I dare not take her on to Chicago! 'Will you take her?" "Gladly," Aunt Edith responded heartily. "On one condition: you must sit right down and have a good, square, warm meal while I take care of Betty. Ralph wasn't here for dinner so I put his in the oven and I want you to eat every bit. The 208 ~ ' RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE two of you look starved. Marjory can drive you across the valley in our car so you'll get there in good time and the ride in the open air will be good for baby." "So you have a car, now?" Rhea asked as she helped herself gladly to Aunt Edith's home-cooked meal. "Yes, we decided that poverty was a thing of the mind. That we had just given up to it instead of using our brains to get out of life a few of the good things." "A few little luxuries needn't demoralize any of us. Now don't worry one bit about Betty!" Aunt Edith continued as she busied herself feeding the delicate child. 'We'll have her as plump and rosy as a baby should be. It is surprising how quickly they respond." In the car, Rhea chatted with relief and the joy of being with her own again. "Its a strange life, Mugs," she cried. "We see them on the stage, all glitter and show in their magnificent costumes and bright, lively acts. But behind the scenes, what they go through! I know of one baby that was wheeled up and down before the theatre all one day with nothing but crackers to nibble on. One woman laid off to have her baby. It was born dead. She paid the bills out of her savings. Over $300 it cost her, Then as soon as she could be up at all she went back to the old life, so weak she could scarcely stand, she danced through to make her living. And the conversation is pitiful. "My God' every other breath. And such slang and coarseness and misery and evil! Oh, of course, some. Are refined and fortunate, but they are in the minority. It makes me shudder to think of the others." "You won't always go on like this?" Marjory implored. "No, a few months and our bills will be paid. Then we must make other plans. Oh, do help Aunt Edith to love my babe," and Rhea was off. (To be continued) The Dearborn Independent, Henry Ford's paper, says the great Chicago fire of 1871, one of the. Most disastrous in the history of the country, was not started by a cow kicking over a lamp, as has been so widely published, but by tobacco smokers; that the only living newspaper man who covered the story has confessed that the reporters made up the story; that the real cause of the fire was the smoking of three or four drinking men in a hayloft of the cow-stable where the fire broke out; that the high south wind swept the flames to adjoining property and soon the city was burning—all from the smoking of tobacco. The General Procession James H. Anderson Prohibition is steadily gaining ground in Great Britain. Mexico's population in 1921 is estimated at 14,000,000. In Japan, on February 4th, 110 people were killed outright in a railway collision. A coal mine explosion at Gates, Pa., in February, killed 25 miners. In Paris, France, during 1921, over 400 persons were killed in street accidents. India was giving Great Britain less trouble in February than during January, with practically a cessation of violence. Russia has begun an increase in its military forces, with a prospect that they will be directed against the Japanese. Fires in the' United States increased in February over Janvary, many of them being of supposed incendiary origin. At Washington, D. C., the collapse of the Knickerbocker moving picttire theatre resulted in the death of 98 persons. German political prognostications now are that within the next five years Germany will assume the form of a liberal monarchy. Palestine authorities captured several shipments of arms and ammunition which were being smuggled into the country in February. Mobs in Plymouth, England, followed "Mormon" missionaries in the streets after a meeting, jeered and threatened them, but did no personal injury to any. Japanese immigration into South America is being discouraged by the Japanese themselves, who are turning the tide to the Asiatic mainland. 210 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE In Belfast, Ireland, during February, more than twoscore murders were committed by Sinn Feiners before quiet was restored. The victims included women and children. Albania has such an unstable government that it is regarded by adjoining nations as a menace. To Europe's peace, unless the discordant state of affairs there can be remedied. The Roma, an airship built in Italy for the United States, met with disaster in a flight in Virginia on February 21, 34 of the crew being killed and the airship destroyed. Heavy wind and snowstorms in the north central portions of the United States did an unusual amount of damage in February, and took a toll of more than a score of lives. Egypt is to be released immediately from being under Great Britain as a protectorate. The probability is that after disturbances are quelled the Islamic Arabs will come into actual control of the country. The American Congress has before it a bill to divide the year into thirteen months of 28 days each, the extra month to be called Vern, and the extra leapyear day would be aiholiday sandwiched between the present June and July. The ceremony of placing on the head of Pope Pius XI of Rome the tiara which is symbolic of the pope's sovereignty over the world powers, on February 12, contained these words: "Receive the tiara adorned with three crowns, and know that thou art father of princes and kings, ruler of the world, vicar of our Savior Jesus Christ." The latest Palestine project is a canal from Haifa to the Jordan valley just south of the sea of Galilee, and another from the Dead Sea to the Gulf of Akabah, thus making a waterway across Palestine from Haifa to the Persian Gulf, filling the Dead Sea basin to the level of the Mediterranean, and practically replacing the Suez canal route to India. "Angels communicate by telepathy," and "the Father has no physical organs of speech," is an announcement now being made by certain Pennsylvania preachers. Since the gentlemen admit that they have neither seen nor heard the parties whom they. Are describing, their credibility is questionable. THE GENERAL PROCESSION 211 What Women are Doing. A woman's volunteer fire company has been organized at Wilmington, Delaware.. 14,834 girls between the ages of 15 and 16 years were married in the United States in 1971. The woman's suffrage amendment to the American Constitution was definitely upheld by the United States Supreme Court on February 27. ' Miss Inez Reyntiens, a Catholic, of Belgium, was married on February 27, at Brussels, to Hugh Gibson, American minister to Poland, by a special dispensation from Pope Pius XI. The women deans of universities in Kentucky, Ohio, and Chicago, issued public statements in February, denouncing the growing social habit of smoking by girls as "a vile, nasty fad." Mrs. Margot Asquith, wife of the noted English statesman, says she likes American men better than American women. The latter generally look upon the loquacious Englishwoman in the same way. Viscountess Windsor, twenty years of age, has been elected to the British parliament from the Ludlow division of Shropshire, England. She will be 21 before taking her seat in the august body. Dr. Bigelow, formerly prominently connected with the Boy Scouts' association, says that between the ages of 10 and 15 years girls are braver than boys, as his extensive experience has demonstrated. Factory girls in Great Britain are said by the temperance societies there to have given themselves over to excessive drinking of wine and liquor, since the war, and the temperance workers are combining to combat the evil. The case seems strongly put, for many of the factory girls are equally as good as those of other classes. Notes from the Field By Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman Annual Membership Dues. The General Board is very much gratified with the promptness in which the stakes are sending in annual membership dues. These seems to be a greater desire than ever before that these dues should be 100%. Up to date of writing (February 27) the following stakes have sent in 100% annual membership dues for 1922: Idaho, Salt Lake, Blaine, Boise, Cottonwood, Union, Wasatch, Oneida, Benson, Franklin, Panguitch, Ensign, Taylor, Liberty, Weber, Tintic, Hyrum, Cache, Logan, Uintah, Beaver, Pocatello, Shelley, San Juan, North Sevier and Big Horn. Other stakes may have sent in 100% without indicating the fact. Morgan Stake. A short time ago the Morgan County Farm Agent asked the Relief Society stake board to assist in putting on some extension work in home economics in the county, and arranging for a permanent organization along that line. Mrs. Otte, of the Utah Agricultural College, spent three days in the stake and five demonstrations were held in different parts of the county on the cleaning and pressing of clothing. Since that time an organization has been perfected, to be a part of the Farm Bureau. The Relief Society has also been invited by the stake presidency to furnish speakers to talk to the high school girls occasionally. Mrs. Mamie Heiner, a stake board member, has given a talk on "Retrenchment," and Mrs. Millie Hopkin, also a board member, has spoken on "Morals." Uintah Stake. All of the wards in the Uintah stake are completely organized and doing effective work. Six of the wards own their own Relief Society halls. The Vernal Second ward recently sold their Relief Society hall and turned in $2,000 toward the erection of a new ward chapel. Stake officers visit the different wards at least three times a year. During the past year, the Relief Socleties of the stake instituted a campaign against the tobacco evil. The question was discussed in all of the ward organizations by able speakers. Great effort is being put forth to raise the standard of the work of the visiting teachers. Topics are used by the teachers which have previously been discussed in the teachers' department NOTES FROM THE FIELD | 213 meetings, which are held once a month. Much good has resulted from the special effort put forth to improve the work of the teachers. Duchesne Stake. Duchesne stake has instituted the following monthly report, with the idea of checking up the attendance at prayer meetings and weekly meetings: No. Officers prayer meetings held..... Number of, meetings held.... No. Officers in attendance.. Lst wk..2nd wk..3rd wk..4th wk..5th wk... No. Officers in attendance punctual.. Lst wk..2nd wk..3rd wk..4th wk..5th wk... No. Visiting teachers in attendance.. Lst wk..2nd wk..3rd wk..4th wk..5th wk.. No. Visiting teachers in attend., punctual.. Ist wk..2nd wk..3rd wk..4th wk..5th wk.. No. Class leaders in attendance.. Lst wk..2nd wk..3rd wk..4th wk..5th wk.. No. Class leaders in attend., punctual.. Ist wk..2nd wk..3rd wk..4th wk..5th wk.. Secretary, President Union Stake The past year has been a very successful one for the Relief Societies of Union stake. Two Relief Society ward conferences have been held in each ward of the stake. These have done much to encourage the officers and help the weekly attendance at meetings. Relief Society women assisted the local Neighborhood Club, at a bazaar which was held for the purpose of raising money to make a "Victory Driveway," with trees planted in honor of this countrys' soldiers who were in the World War, many of whom made the supreme sacrifice. With a quilt and rug booth, the Relief Society raised $253.14 for this cause. Then, too, recently the LeGrande ward, assisted by the North LaGrande and Perry branches, held a bazaar at which nearly $600 was made to aid in the erection of a Relief Society Hall for the North LaGrande branch. This hall will also be used by the Primary and the Religion class. The stake board has placed copies of the Book of Mormon, Doctrine and Covenants, and Pearl of Great Price, and one year's subscription to the Relief Society Magazine, in the Public Library of LaGrande. The temple fund in the stake, for 1921, was $250. During the month of July the stake board made arrangements to have the children of the stake come to LaGrande for medical examination, and treatment, if necessary. Four days were devoted to this work and successful operations were performed upon forty-three children. President Evelyn Lyman generously converted her home into a temporary hospital and several experienced women were present to lend assistance. Two very able specialists performed the operations and they marveled that everything went along so smoothly. However, it was not hard for the mothers to understand, as every one accompanying her child, and every attendant, fasted and prayed 214 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE for the success of the operations. There was a splendid attendance (56) at the last union meeting held in connection with the priesthood meeting. The Relief Society stake officers served sandwiches and pumpkin pie to all attending priesthood meeting (250), the largest ever held. Bingham Stake. With a view of expressing appreciation for the work of Mrs. Margaret Shippen and Mrs. Mary Ann Holden, a testimonial was recently held by the Relief Societies of the First and Second wards, in the auditorium at Idaho Falls. Before there was a division, and when these two wards were one, Mrs. Shippen was an indefatigable worker in the old ward. For thirty-five years she was associated with the work, and for twenty-three years she was the president. Mrs. Holden has been a secretary for about eighteen years. Words cannot express the magnitude of the work that these two good women have accomplished, and the esteem in which they are held by the people of Idaho Falls. Mrs. Shippen, although 76 years of age, is well and active, and is now serving as a member of the stake board. The Bingham stake board recently held a social at the home of the president, Mrs. Mayme Laird, in honor of the local officers of the stake. Invitations were issued and fifty-two ladies enjoyed the hospitality of the board. The afternoon was spent in music and social games. At five o'clock a dainty three-course luncheon was served, and all voted the affair a devided success. The first stake president of Bingham stake, Mrs. Bennett, now of Salt Lake, was a special guest on the occasion. The stake board expect to make this an annual affair. Wasaich Stake. Near the close of the year 1921, the Relief Society stake board arranged for a course of four lectures on health, to be given in Heber City by Miss Charlotte Dancy, R. N., of the Agricultural College of Utah. Four hundred eighty-eight people attended the lectures. San Juan Stake. Readers of the Relief Society Magazine, who have enjoyed the verses written for the magazine by Mrs. Hazel S. Washburn, of Blanding, Utah, will be grieved to learn that her husband, Francis Washburn, was accidentally killed, in November, a few miles from home. He was alone at the time and was found later by a neighbor. Mrs. Washburn, who is a great granddaughter of Newell and Lydia Knight, is léft with six small children.; NOTES FROM THE FIELD 215 Alpine Stake. In each ward throughout the stake, November 27, 1921, was set apart as Relief Society ward conference day, and stake board members were each assigned a ward to visit, when the following general program was carried out: The general, stake, and ward officers were sustained; financial and statistical reports for the nine months past were read, and verbal reports of welfare work given. Reviews and lesson work by class leaders, songs, readings, and instrumental selections were given by members of ward Relief Societies. The reports of the ward workers along welfare lines were most gratifying to the stake board members. In the early part of last year, existing conditions made the board feel that an increase in funds would be needed to meet the emergencies that might come during the year. They therefore, encouraged the raising of funds in the different wards. The result was that hundreds of dollars were raised during the summer months with bazaars, entertainments, luncheons, etc., to be used for the comfort and blessing of those in need. The reports at the ward conferences of the disbursing of these funds, together with the reports of visits of teachers and the sunshine visits, all of which brought comfort, hope and good cheer into many homes, were especially appreciated by all those in attendance at the conferences. The stake board feels that these ward conferences were most profitable and were really the crowning event of the year's work. Lethbridge Stake. Readers of the Magazine will be pleased to learn of the organization of a new stake in Canada, to be known as the Lethbridge stake. This stake is made up of the following wards and 'branches which were taken from the Alberta stake: Orton, Claresholm, Frankburg, Pine Coulee, Starline, Gleichen branch, Champion branch, Calgary branch, Rosemary branch; and the following wards taken from the Taylor stake: Barnwell, Burdette, Lethbridge, Taber. Mrs. Mildred Harvey of Lethbridge, Alberta, Canada, has been appointed president of the Relief Societies of the Lethbridge stake. In a letter from this stake recently, we learn that the women are making a house-to-house canvass in the interest of the Relief Society Magazine with the weather thirty-eight degrees below zero. This activity indicates that our sisters in the far north have both "pep" and energy. Panguttch Stake.. The Panguitch Stake Relief Society was reorganized on December 4, 1921. Mrs. Sarah E. Cameron was honorably released from her labors as president of the Stake Relief Society, 216 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and appreciation was expressed for her faithfulness and devotion to the work. Mrs. Elizabeth W. Henderson was appointed _ to fill the vacancy caused by the resignation of Mrs. Cameron, with Mrs. Minnie B. Gardner, first counselor and Mrs. Sarah O. Henrie as second counselor. Manetta Henrie was appointed secretary-treasurer. Maricopa Stake. From the Maricopa stake comes the following very interest-- ing report: "In the Maricopa stake last year Relief Society teachers were relieved of collecting charity funds while making their regular visits. A member of the Priesthood and a Relief Society member from each ward, visited every family in the ward to solicit funds. One thousand dollars was raised in the combined wards. As the cotton situation had left many in destitute circumstances this fund proved to be a great blessing, The Stake Presidency asked that one fourth of the amount raised be turned over to the Stake Welfare Worker to be used in emergency cases and especially to help in wards which had not raised sufficient funds for their needs, As a result of this system we have been able to care for our poor in a very cteditable manner. The Relief Societies have cooperated closely with the Bishops. The best of feeling exists between the Relief Society workers and the Priesthood in our stake. "About the time the L. D. S. Church had its work well in hand, the Commercial Club of the Mesa section (5 wards) saw the necessity of community cooperation in taking care of the needy. They called for a representative from each of the five wards and the Stake Relief Society, and from each of our local churches and lodges. An organization was perfected, one vicepresident and secretary and a member of the investigating committee being taken from our representatives. "The first thing our Relief Societies did was to make a survey of the entire district, locating every needy family. Our Red Cross immediately placed $585.62 at our disposal. A baseball game between the "Fats" and "Leans" staged by the business men gave us an additional $195.00. Voluntary donations increased the welfare fund to about $1100.00 No other means have been solicited but in addition to this amount, clothing, milk, eggs, etc., have been freely given and have been distributed. For four months lunch was furnished to one hundred twenty Mexican school children daily. This was done through the cooperation of the butchers furnishing the cheaper cuts of meat and soup bones and ottr wards and 'the other churches taking a week each in turn, in preparing vegetables and seasoning, making a good NOTES FROM THE FIELD 217 substantial soup. This was distributed to the children piping hot by the school nurse assisted by the teachers. "Cotton companies had imported thousands of pickers from Mexico and at the end of the picking season these Mexicans were left without employment and in destitute condition. Through our efforts the cotton companies were compelled to send these pickers back to their native land. "This work has opened up an avenue of county funds and a State Child Welfare Fund and permanent help is being given to a number of families through these agencies. Thus far over three hundred families have been provided for by our Mesa Welfare League." Nebo Stake. We quote from a very interesting letter from Nebo stake: - "Each ward has a charity and relief committee, consisting of three, with the president as chairman. Great care is taken to select women for assistants who are competent and tactful to handle this work. The duties of the charity and relief committee are to keep in touch with the needy families in the ward and to become acquainted with the new families. In case of financial distress or sickness, the president gives temporary relief where it is needed, then details are gone into and employment for those out of work is secured, if possible. We try to make all families self-supporting. Needy families are called to the attention of the Charity and Relief Committee through the teachers, who are expected to report each Tuesday. A visit is then made by the president or one of her assistants. The follow-up work is also done by this committee which makes occasional visits until assured that assistance is no longer required. But visits to give cheer and encouragement are made frequently. The Relief Society cooperates very closely with the Bishop, reporting all needy families and the Bishop and the President plan together what is to be done for them. "The Charity Fund of each ward is secured by donations given to the teachers as they visit each month. If this is not enough means are taken from the General Fund which is supported by quilting, bazaars, socials, etc. The reports given by the Relief Committee every three months show that each ward has had enough to care for its own needy and in special cases, such as the purchase of an artificial limb, special extra donations are gathered. "The work of the Free Clinic in our stake has been done by the Stake Board. The Ward Charity and Relief Committees found the children in need of medical treatment. The list was first submitted to the Bishops and then to the Stake Board. With 218 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the permission of Ward Presidents money was taken from the Stake Fund to begin the financing of our Clinic work. We intend to continue this work which will be financed by a State Charity Fund, raised by gathering wheat in the wards for charity purposes. Two-thirds of the charity wheat gathered by the wards will be turned over to the stake and the other third will be retained by wards for charity purposes." Following is a quarterly report (for August, September and October) of the work of the charity and relief committee of one of the wards of the Nebo s'ake, as submitted to the Stake President: "Our committee surely has the spirit of the work. No one in need in this ward has been overlooked. All the sick, the widows, orphans, motherless and fatherless and all others in need in any way, have been looked after. They have gone into the homes where sickness has been present and assisted in all things, contributing of. Their substance, aiding in general house work, sitting up with the sick and-doing everything they possibly could, and none have been neglected. In families where death has come, the committee have always been on hand to assist, in many instances cleaning the house, cooking food to take into those homes, taking members of the family to their own homes, offering words of encouragement and doing everything to relieve those called upon to mourn. The committee also convassed the town in the interest of the clinic work and assisted all they could both in getting the patients to the doctors and giving them all the attention possible after the clinical operations. "During August the committee met at the home of the chairman and sewed for a motherless family and in about 3 hours' time had finished up 6 articles of wearing apparel. They also patched and mended many articles. The committee convassed the ward for quilt blocks with which to make quilts to give to a number of needy in the ward. Then they put on a picture show in the ward hall for the purpose of obtaining means to furnish bats and lining for those quilts; $19.95 was realized from the show. Eight quilts were the result of this activity and these were — tied on work meeting days. "Other details of the report are: 88 visits to sick and needy by the members of the committee; 10 days spent with sick; 6 days spent bottling fruit for motherless; 5 days spent sewing and patching for motherless; 914 days spent working on quilts for needy; 3 families of new comers visited by committee; 114 days spent in general house work; all the sick, the widows, orphans, motherless, fatherless, and others in need in ward visited and some of them visited repeatedly." EDITORIAL Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS - - - - President MRS. LUCY JANE BRIMHALIL KNIGHT - - - First Counselor MRS. LOUISA YATES ROBINSON - - - - Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN. - - Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund Mrs. Susa Young Gates Mrs. Lelene Hart Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. Lottie Paul Baxter Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Julia Childs Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Miss Lillian Cameron Mrs. Cora Bennion Mrs. Rosanna C. Irvine A Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor -: Susa YounG Gates Business Manager - - - - - - Janette A. Hype Assistant Manager -:: - - - -Amy Brown LyMan Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah 
THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. IX. APRIL, 1922 No. 4 THE WORK OF THE MILLENNIUM How the heart leaps and the spirit thrills at the thought of the coming of our Lord, and the thousand years which will prepare this sad old earth for its paradisiacal glory. In that thousand years there is much work to do. Indeed, there is much to do before that period will begin. President Ivins, in a recent discourse, referred to the prophecy which declares that before the generation in which the prophecy was uttered has all passed away, the times of the Gentiles shall be fulfilled, and the gospel shall be sent to the House of Israel?the Jews and the American Indians. Whether that generation period?the Book of Mormon gives one hundred years as a generation?refers to 1830 or to another date, no one can say. Certain it is that we are in that dense darkness period which precedes the Millennial dawn. The conditions around us today have been all too clearly foreshadowed by the Savior himself. We are in the midst of wars and rumors of wars, earthquakes and pestilence. But Zion is to see the salvation of the Lord. When the Millennium is here, what shall we do in that period of peace and rest? We could not be idle?for stagnation is death. We must be occupied, each waking moment, in clearly defined labor or soul-resting recreation. Progress, development involves exercise of body and mind. What is the mission of the Savior and those associated with 220 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE him? To save souls by preaching the gospel to the living and to the dead, and associated with that conversion must be the labor in the temples by which vicarious work is done for those who have accepted the gospel on the Other Side. We all understand this without argument, yet we sometimes act as if life were given us just to eat, drink and be merry; we pass on to the Other Side without any work done for our dead. We are the only people on the earth who hold the keys to unlock the prison house on the Other Side. Those of us who have labored faithfully here in the temples, will be prepared to carry on that work when we reach the Other Side. Brigham Young said that the work of the Millennium would consist of temple work and that temples would be built all over North and South America. When asked how the people on earth could attend to their ordinary vocations in securing food, preparing it for bodily use, building houses, rearing children and educating them; he replied that the people who worked in the temple would find ample time to do all their necessary work beside the time spent in temple service. This is almost true today. Temple workers will tell you that they have been in the habit of doing this as well as carrying on the labor in the temple. President Brigham Young said that was why we needed the United Order, so that women's labor and men's expenses would be cut down to the minimum. This people, and especially the sisters of the Relief Society, should not slacken their efforts in temple work because our genealogical lessons have been transferred, and rightly so, to the Genealogical Society itself. Rather should we be more interested than ever, more eager, more devoted in assisting those who have this work in charge, proving by our devotion that we understand the gospel and its message too well to become weary in well doing. We are to be Saviors upon Mount Zion only as we assist the Savior in his glorious work of redeeming souls. "We hope to see the day when we shall have temples built in the various parts of the land where they are needed for the convenience of the people; for we realize that one of the greatest responsibilities that rests upon the people of God today is that their hearts shall be turned unto their fathers, and that they shall do the work that is. Necessary to be done for them.'?President Jos. F. Smith, Oct. Conf. 1902. BOOK NOTICES. The Stairway, by Alica A. Chown is an exceptionally good book and well worth reading. It is published by The Cornhill EDITORIAL... 221 Company, 2 A Park Street, Boston, Mass., and the price is $2. The following is a brief outline: "The Stairway is the record of the people the author meets as she climbs to a view-point which illuminates life for her. She finds everywhere people longing for freedom to express their craving for beauty, for truth, for love; and upon this universally growing recognition that life is more than any of the forms that contain it, she builds her hope that the new spirit of life now awakening will give birth to a new era of peace and good will." It is our belief that one will be paid for the time and money it takes to read and obtain the book. We recommend it to all of our readers. THE LADIES HOME JOURNAL. We break an established editorial rule to commend to our readers another magazine?and that, too, an Eastern publication. The Ladies Home Journal has been publishing recently a series of articles on the dangerous condition of modern society which should be read by every woman and man and girl and boy in this United States of ours. The editorial in the September number by Mrs. Mary Roberts Rinehart on Freedom is worth much money and many readings; there are articles on: Jazz, and now a vital and compelling story by Zane Grey?and we "Mormons" have no occasion to regard him very highly in the past?but his story, "The Call of the Canyon," now running in the Journal, is too valuable as a moral appeal for us to refrain from favorable comment. We heartily recommend it to all our readers. A new edition of the Brief History of the Church, by Edward H. Anderson, has been issued from the Mission headquarters at Independence, Missouri. The seventeen-year administration of President Joseph F. Smith, is added and treated briefly and the beginning of President Heber J. Grant's incumbency, as his successor is outlined. This brings the book up to date and makes of it a comprenhensive, clear and indispensable adjunct to those who study, write or consult the history of this people. The history has passed through several editions and its value to missionaries as well as to the auxiliary organizations cannot be over estimated. Elder Anderson has shown that nice balance in choosing facts which are both pertinent and necessary for cursory reading, as well as for student reference, and he has had a clear vision to present them with a wise understanding of life's values. The book is on sale at the Bureau of Information, Salt Lake City, Utah, and is a cheap and convenient reference for everybody. Guide Lessons for June LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First WEEK IN JUNE) THE SABBATH DAY AND SUNDAY I, Introduction. The Sabbath day and Sunday are used interchangeably, and while they are alike, in at least two respects, yet they are different in some other respects. Both have behind them the divine proclamation and they are both days of rest. They differ, however, in that one is the seventh day of the week and the other the first day of the week; also, that Sunday has the wider significance, as it is not only a day of rest, but also a day of gladsome remembrance of the first resurrection that ever took place on this earth; it is the Redeemer's third estate week-birthday. The Sabbath memoralized the finish of our world's creation; Sunday memoralizes the beginning of "immortalization." II, The Observance of a Seventh Day Rest Period A Divine! Habit. It would appear that the observance of the Sabbath day was a divine habit, as was work a divine habit. We are told in substance that the gods labored for six periods in constructing the earth and the beings to dwell upon it, and at the end of each period they saw that their work was good. The seventh period was devoted to rest, or at least a change of activity different from that of the other six periods, and that it was hallowed or devoted to sacredness. When the declaration of God, recorded in Genesis, Chapters 2, 3, is correlated with the declaration of the Savior, in John 5:19, and when we remember that the Savior observed the Sabbath day, we must conclude that the seventh day rest period is so much of a custom in heaven that anyone not habituated in the keeping of the Sabbath would be incapable of enjoying existence in company with our Father in heaven or with our Redeemer. III, A Seventh Day Rest Period Most Highly Economical of Energy and Time. The mining magnate, Jesse Knight, found, through actual GUIDE LESSONS 223 experiments, that it was more profitable to pay men seven days' wages for six days' work than to have them work seven days for the seven days' wages, provided the workmen rested on Sunday. Where the laborers observed religiously the Sabbath day, it was found there were fewer accidents, less sickness, more optimism, less grumbling, more work and less time-stealing. His conclusion that it paid to pay men to pay respect to the Lord's day was a good business principle. Dr. Thomas L. Martin, of the Brigham Young University, is authority for the following: Dr. Marquis, the sociologist for the Ford establishment, talking to the summer school students at Cornell, during the summer of 1919, had the following to say: Henry Ford believed that a twelve-hour day was too long a work day, he used as his evidence the experience of the mining engineers that first went to China. The mandarins objected to Sunday being observed as a rest day, the engineers believed that if there should be a rest day, more efficient work would be done at the mines. They made the claim to the mandarins that the machinery must be oiled and overhauled ct least every tenth day; this was done and it was found that the efficiency of the workers was improved and that there was greater production. It was then tried every ninth day, the result being better than ever. This experiment was repeated every eighth day with still better results. The seventh day was then used as the rest period, and this resulted in even greater efficiency on the part of the workers. The sixth day period was tried and the efficiency was reduced and the workmen demoralized, because the men were in tent on the holidays instead of at their work, so the company returned to the seventh-day period as the most profitable. IV. The Tripple Trueness of Sabbath Observance. By the proper observance of Sunday one habituates oneself in trueness to God; he forms habits of trueness to nature, he proves his trtteness to Christian society. No Sabbath breaker can be a good neighbor in a Christian community. It is not only irreligious but unethical to disregard the sanctity of the Sabbath day. A person who is traditionated in Christian belief is punished not only by his own neglect of Sabbath day observance, but he suffers discomfort in the presence of the violation of the Lord's day by others.. V, Violation of the Sabbath Day Leads to its Loss. There is an irrevocable law always in operation, it may be stated thus: Use and keep, abuse. And lose. There is no evidence of any Sabbath day privileges in the region of the condemned. Who could wish for a fiat proclaiming an end of Sabbath day privileges. A discard of the gospel has caused it to be 224 - RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE taken from the earth, but such a thing will not occur again, it will be taken from individuals, lost to them through their abuse of it. < V. What Was Done on the First Sunday. An angel of power broke the government seal at the tomb and rolled away the stone door with a noise that frightened the Roman guards into deserting their posts of duty. Jesus having finished his mission to the spirit world, entered his mortal body, and made it immortal. He appeared to Mary at daylight, and to others at sunrise, and sent word to his apostles that he would first ascend to his Father, and then meet them at the previously appointed place in Galilee. He walked and conversed with two of his disciples on the way from Jerusalem to Emmaus. In the evening he met with his disciples in a room in Jerusalem. The women went to the sepulchre to finish the burial ceremonies left incomplete at the end of the week (Friday night). They found the sepulchre open and the body gone; they were told by the angels that Jesus had arisen. His friends were all wrought up; they believed that the tomb had been robbed of the body of Jesus. Mary discovered that he had been resurrected, his disciples visited the tomb, but were not convinced of his resurrection. Eleven of them renewed acquaintance with him in his state of immortality Sunday evening. The Jews bribed the frightened guard to testify to the lie that Jesus' friends had forced the tomb, broken the government seal, and had stolen the body of Jesus. They spread the falsehood all over Jerusalem. Matthew 28. Mark 16:2-9. Luke 24. John 20:1-19. The veil of darkness was lifted from the American continent for the first time in three days, the sun shone. III Nephi 10:9. VII. Traditionating Children in Sunday Observance. Fortunate indeed is the race, the community, the family, or the individual with good traditions, for they are akin to race habits. A child who is properly traditionated in Sunday -observance becomes so pleasurably habituated to it that a feeling of discomfort either accompanies or follows any serious departure from the observance. Children may be trained to remember the Lord's day in their Sunday morning secret prayers, giving thanks for the rest-day and expressing a desire to be helped by the Lord to observe it. The Sunday morning family prayer may fittingly reinforce the secret petition for help to succeed in the spiritual activities of the Lord's day. "We thank thee, O Lord, for our Sunday" is an expression worthy of place in our Sabbath-day prayers. GUIDE LESSONS 225 VIUI.. The Breakfastless Sabbath. Healthy children and robust youths will be benefited by dispensing with breakfast on Sunday morning. The custom makes for health, it develops a self-restraint that will contribute to the general power of self-control, and it puts the spiritual part of the soul to the front at the priesthood meeting and in the Sunday school. It lessens the daily grind of meal preparation possibly thirty per cent. When Jesus said to Peter, "Feed my lambs" he was not thinking of the "loaves and fishes," but of the bread of eternal life of which he spoke to the tempter when requested to perform a miracle for the gratification of his appetite. Matt. 4:4. Learning, thinking, and acting are processes of becoming. We learned that the Savior used physical abstinence as a preparation for a spiritual contest. We think of the procedure as applicable to our lives, we apply it and just that far become as he is. Young people are instinctively heroic, and acts of heroism are productive of a joy eclipsing all forms of physical happiness. A family custom of a breakfastless Sabbath trains in heroism and makes it possible for them to feast at the table of high selfrespect, not self-conceit, nor self-indulgence. ~ QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Which of the Lord's birthdays do we celebrate by Sunday observance? 2. Where and how are we to celebrate this birthday? Doctrine and Covenants, 59:9-12. 3. What are we not to do on Sunday? Doctrine and Covenants, 59:13-14. 4. What are the blessings promised for observing Sunday? Section 59:14-20. 5. How is Sunday related to this exclamation: "Oh grave, where is thy victory; oh death, where is thy sting?" 6. Show that the great question of the ages, recorded in Job 14:14, was answered by the first event on the morning of the first Sunday. Matthew 28:7. ' 7, Wherein is there more of the joy element in observing the Christian Sunday than in the observance of the Jewish Sabbath? 8. Why is it unneighborly to work on Sunday? 9. Make a list of things that may be done on Sunday which are pleasing to the Lord and joy-giving to man. 10. In the light of Doctrine and Covenants 59:13 is the habit of having big Sunday dinners theologically consistent? 11. Discuss the simple life diet for Sunday in the light of the following: An animal husbandry survey showed that more 226 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE work horses die on Sunday flan on any other day of the week where teams were permitted to rest on that day, and that the ? chief cause of death was indigestion although the animals were fed the workday ration. 12. Prove scripturally that among the Savior's perfect set of good habits was the habit of attending meeting on the Sabbath day. Luke 4:16. 13. Have someone read pages 309, 310, Gospel Doctrine; it will take less than four minutes. LESSON II Work and Business (SEconD WEEK IN JUNE) LESSON III Literature (Tutrp WeEK In JUNE) LITERATURE LESSON John Jaques, remembered among the Latter-day Saints for his valubale contributions to their hymnology, was born January 7, 1827, at Market Bosworth, Leicestershire, England. At the time of his baptism, which occurred in the year 1845, he became a member of the Branstone branch, but was identified later with the Stratford-on-Avon branch, Warwickshire conference. He sailed from Liverpool, May 22, 1856, and was subjected to severe snow storms, while coming to the valleys. On the plains he and his wife had a child born to them, he also lost a daughter near Green river., Essentially a literary man, he was trained as a cabinet maker. During his lifetime he worked on the Millennial Star, the Deseret News, and the Daily Telegraph. At the time of his death, which occurred June 1, 1900, the anniversary of Brigham Young's birthday, he was working at the Historian's Office, having been connected there for many years. (For further biographical information consult L. D. S. Biographical Encyclopedia, page ~ 254.) Five hymns from the pen of John Jaques appear in the L. D. S. Hymn book. Of this number "O say, what is truth?' holds first place in the hearts of the Latter-day Saints, with whom it has found great favor, not alone because of its poetic quality, but because it is an appropriate hymn for many occa- GUIDE LESSONS 227 sions. It is said to be the favorite hymn of Elder David O. McKay. This hymn begins with a question, an unusual way to begin a hymn, but, in this instance, most effective, as it calls attention to the central idea of the hymn, around which all else is centered. The poet asks the question, which comes ringing to us from the pages of the Holy Bible, "What is truth?" and then proceeds to answer the question, not as a philosopher would answer it, but as a poet answers it. The literary quality of the hymn is produced by bringing into being a group of beautiful comparisons that appeal to the senses and whose connotation is vast and pleasurable. While John Jacques appeals to the senses by comparing truth with the "fairest gem that the riches of worlds can produce," at once suggesting to the mind all the color and brilliancy of the jewels of the world, yet he tells us that truth is to be treasured beyond all the gems of the earth, for it shall be exalted when the "proud monarch's costliest diadem is counted but dross and refuse." ??_ There is a prophecy in the'first stanza that has certainly found its fulfilment during the last decade. Are not the crowns of both the house of Hapsburg and of Hohenzollern dross and refuse at the present time? Before the war were they not the embodiment of pride, the one proud of reigning for nine centuries, the -other proud of military power and prowess? The second stanza accentuates the fact that truth is a prize above all else, a prize to which mortals and even gods may aspire, that it permeates all regions, that whether found in the depths or on the heights, "'Tis an aim for the noblest desire." The third stanza shows how temporary and ephemeral are all material things when compared with the products of the spirit: "The scepter may fall from the despot's grasp, When with winds of stern justice he copes, But the pillar of truth will endure to the last, And its firm-rooted bulwarks oustand the rude blast, And the wreck of the fell tyrant's hopes. The last stanza reminds us that spiritual entities are not bound by either time or space, that even though heaven and earth pass away, yet truth will stand "eternal, unchanged evermore." "Softly beams the sacred dawning," while not in the same class with "O say, what is truth?" as a poetic composition is nevertheless a favorite hymn with the Latter-day Saints. It stands second among John Jaques' hymns for its literary quality, lofty and poetic as it is both in conception and style. The suggestive quality of this hymn should not go un- 228 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE noticed, for each line arouses a train of images that must keep the singer in exalted mood. There are eight stanzas in the hymn, each as we approach it, to borrow the language of the author, "seems glowing with celestial cheer." The other three hymns from the pen of John Jaques, found in the L. D. S. Collection, carry their message in clear, concise English, they are examples of good verse rather than poetry. Such hymns are of great value and most serviceable, but we are always gratified when the theme and emotional content raises the author into a realm where the expression is truly poetic. In this day when the Latter-day Saints are emphasizing temple work, the words of the hymn on page 389 cannot fail to make direct appeal. Surely the contribution of two such hymns as "O say, what is truth," and "Softly beams the Sacred dawning" will give lasting fame to their author. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. What are the material entities to which John Jaques compares truth? Have the hymn sung during the session. 2. Read the words of "Softly beams the sacred dawning." 3. To what theme is the poem devoted? 4. Select the lines that you regard as especially poetic in the hymn. 5. Are you assisted, through the poetic language, to see and feel more keenly the time that the poet projects? 6. What proof have we that John Jaques could write prose as well as poetry? 7, In the event that the topic of a lesson should be temple work, which one of John Jaques' hymns would be appropriate to sing? 8. Have the hymn read or sung to the class, preferably both, if you have time. LESSON IV Social Service. Fourth Week in June MORAL LEADERSHIP IN THE HOME "And now a commandment I give unto you," said the Lord through the Prophet, "if you will be delivered, you shall set in order your own house for there are many things that are not right in your house." Doctrine and Covenants, 93:43. And again, "Your family must needs repent and forsake some things, GUIDE LESSONS 229 and give more earnest heed unto your sayings or be removed out of their place. What I say unto one I say unto all; pray always, lest the wicked one have power in you and remove you out of your place." Doctrine and Covenants 93:48-49, To set our houses in order morally implies two lines of careful organization. In the first place, the environment must be made good, it must inspire moral ideals, sentiments and habits. To set our houses in order means to remove those forces that are morally contaminating and substitute such conditions as tend toward moral uplift. These influences may be either physical or social. We shall call them the home environment. In the second place, we must give proper direction to the native tendencies of children. We call these tendencies instincts. Thus the Lord's commandment implies that order, system, intelligent direction, should take the place of disorder, confusion, conflict. The house of the Lord is a house of order, and so also should be the sacred homes in which God's choice spirits are reared. In this and the following two lessons we shall study moral leadership in the home from the standpoint of what we shall do with the normal child by way of providing proper surroundings on the one hand and giving proper direction to native tendencies on the other. In harmony with what we have said heretofore, we insist that to direct the natural activities of children is much easier than to remove unnatural tendencies when they have once taken root in the lives of our children. In the present lesson we shall consider the home environment in its moral significance and in the following two lessons we shall treat the instructive tendencies with the view of directing them into moral channels. Social Environment of the Home "Better is a dry morsel and quietness therewith, Than a houseful of feasting with strife."?-Proverbs 17:1. It is commonly recognized that the great majority of morally delinquent children and the older criminals come from homes where there is strife, conflict and confusion. And we can expect nothing else of a boy who, during the tender and sensitive years of his life, hears constantly profanity, vulgarity; observes dishonesty, cruelty, sensuality; lives in an atmosphere of filth and tobacco smoke. If the tender thoughts and feelings are to develop in the right direction, and if right habits are to be formed the stimulus and inspiration of the home must conform to the higher standards. A little child is after all very much 230 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE like a young colt. He learns to respond to the things which he sees and hears. If he hears loud and profane language he becomes wild and uncontrollable. If the language of the home is kind and the voices gentle, he is likely to take on that attitude. If the parents are honest, the child is quite sure to be honest. If parents control their own impulses, the child soon learns to control his. We must not assume that a child has the motives, the intelligence, the self-control of an adult. If that were the case, there would be no need for moral education. The child needs the constant direction of the parent, because, as a child he does not recognize fully the meaning of moral principles. He needs the authoritative control of the parent because he does not yet possess the inner power of reason and organized habits. "The Perfect child," says Cope, "is the one unborn; shortly after his birth he begins to take after his father. The perfect character does not exist in a child. It is as unreasonable to expect it as it would be to look for the perfect tree in the sapling. Character comes by development; it is not born full-blown. Childhood implies promise, development. Therefore parents must not be surprised at evidences that their children are pretty much like their neighbor's children. Outside of the old-time SundaySchool-library book the child who never lied, lost his temper, sulked, or made a disturbance never existed and never will, except in a psychopathic ward in some hospital. Could anything be sadder than the picture of the anzmic, pulseless automaton who is always good?"* Physical Environment of the Home By physical environment we mean all those things that influence the lives of children other than the direct influence of human beings, and such influences are numerous. The animals in the barn-yard, the flowers of the garden, the artistic arrangement of the furniture, the pictures on the wall, and the music in the home, all these influence profoundly the moral life of the home. The little child should be taught to see God's work in the beauties of nature, to enjoy to live with nature, to care for and develop plants and animals. ' He should be taught to treat kindly all the creatures of nature that are capable of feeling pain and pleasure as he does himself. Sometimes a beautiful picture may develop a love for nature which first hand contact may not do. Well chosen pictures also inspire in the minds of children other moral sentiments which can be created in no other way. The best of art can be obtained in *The Religious Education in the Family, Cope, page 219. GUIDE LESSONS 231 prints at slight cost. A visit to the class rooms of some of the grades in the school may be profitable in ascertaining the most desirable pictures and at the same time ascertaining the prices. An attractive home environment has an indirect moral value in that it tends to keep the younger members of the family at home. In these times when there are so many things that attract young people away from the home, it is very essential that the attraction of the home shal! Hold its own in competition with outside amusements. Public places of amusement have their place in the community but they must not be permitted to absorb all the attention of young people. The home must always be the most interesting place in the world. It must become as near a paradise as we can make it. The loving influence of father and mother, the brother and sister, inspiring strains of music, the interesting life and behavior of domestic animals, all tend to 'make a moral and happy home., Cleanliness is Next to Godliness Too often the beauty, attractiveness and moral atmosphere of the home is weakened by a few careless habits of its members. In and of themselves these habits are not morally bad, but indirectly their influence is detrimental to the wholesome, cheerful spirit that otherwise could be maintained. How often members of the family enter the house and throw their wraps here and there. How often papers, books, music and toys are used and left misplaced. How often the personal belongings of even the adult members of the family are left in disorder. Such common habits as these only bring confusion and irritation and generally end in added burdens to the mother. The personal cleanliness and neatness of an individual has a direct effect on his daily habits of thought and action. Careless language, crude behavior, and vulgarity in general frequently grow out of and accompany unclean bodies and slovenly dress. For example, a little boy four years of age, after having received his bath, clean underwear and his best suit, came to his mama and said, "My, but I am clean, Mama. I can be a good boy now." The Spirit of God will not dwell in unclean or unholy places. If the home is to be the most attractive place in the world it must be clean in every sense of the word. Mother can enjoy her house only when everything is in order, when every room in the house smells fresh, when the body of every member of the family is clean. The father takes pride in his home only when the door-yard and the barn-yard measure up to his standard of order and sanitation. 232 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE REFERENCES Deuteronomy, Chapter 6. Cope: Religious Education in the Family, ch, 19. Doctrine and Covenants: Sec. 93:43-45. QUESTIONS 1. How do you interpret the Lord's statement: "If you will be delivered, you shall set in order your house?" 2. Discuss also the statement:. "The house of the Lord is the house of order." 3. How do you explain the fact that the majority of morally delinquent children and criminals come from homes of low moral character? 4, How does the language of the home influence the conduct of the children? 5. What, in the physical environment of the home, do you consider of moral significance? 6. What is the moral significance of pictures in the home? 8. Show in what way a home that is generally attractive has a strong influence over the lives of young people. 9. Why is it important that a large proportion of young people's amusements should be provided for in the home? 10. Explain the moral value of family prayers. 11. Show the moral value of cleanliness. TEACHER'S TOPIC May MOTHER'S DAY. PRIVILEGES OF MOTHERHOOD "Men may build nations, And armies control, But what is all that To the birth of a soul?" "We admire the artist who presents the mimic man upon the canvas; we applaud the sculptor who carves out that same image in enduring marble, but oh, how insignificant are these achievements, though the highest and fairest in all the domain of art, in comparison with the great vocation of human mothers? They work not upon canvas that will fade, nor marble that will crumble into dust, but upon mind and spirit, that will live forever, and bear through eternity, for good or ill, the impress of a mother's plastic hand."?Daniel Webster. GUIDE LESSONS ? 233 TEACHER'S TOPIC For June PROPER CHAPERONAGE Have faith in your children but fear the social conditions of the day. Cooperation of parents in ocmmunities in regard to chaperonage. Responsibility of parents for the salvation of children. The Three Glories J lia Farr Through the darkened woodland, one night I strolled alone, Faintly through the tree-tops, the twinkling star-light shone. The air was filled with fragrance, from moss, and tree, and flower, My soul was thrilled and silenced by the magic of the hour! Many wondrous thoughts seemed to flood with joy my being, Angels seemed to hover round, my earthly bondage freeing. When night was far advanced, a silver light appeared, And as it grew in brilliance, the darkness disappeared. Wondering, then, I gazed at the beauty of the scene? Nature seemed more eloquent, the leaves and ferns a-sheen. The whole night through, I contemplated the glory of the moon. The hours passed me quickly by, it seemed to me too soon, The moon-light waned, the shadows fled. But lo! The golden ray Upon the eastern hills, proclaimed the dawning of a day! The heavens were lit with prism rays as the glorious sun appeared! The shadows fled, the zephyrs stirred, the songs of birds were heard!; Majestically the sun arose, in splendor unsurpassed, I felt its warmth, I felt its power, I felt soul strength at last! And, as with awe I watched it rise in power and majesty, I thought of heaven's reward to Man-?one of glories three, The glory of the Stars, or of the Moon, or of the Sun! I prayed that mine would be the Third, when my early race was run! SAZY? A Big Treat for Conference Time "Sazy" is a Social Service Drama, dealing with the real problems of THE SIMM'S FAMILY?and solving those problems by practical methods. ? The Salt Lake Theatre APRIL 5th, Next You will do Relief Society work more thoughtfully? You will bestow charities more cautiously? You will love humanity more generously? When you have seen this stirring Drama with its big appeal. The Simms Family is among you UUSHAnauecenesdCueneantrsnnecescs Ov4boeeenssed oedeeseuuseaee in cantCteT gaat enisaanaenestestrt ECCLES BLDG., OGDEN THE FLOWER SHOP ELIZABETH HUTH, Prop. Telephone 73 AT McINTYRE'S IOANANVEODONOUNOONARO ANA EONAT UU To the Agents and Friends of the Magazine who are Taking Subscriptions It was unanimously decided at the October Conference by the officers and members present rather than raise the price of the magazine, we would ask the agents and friends for the present to secure subscriptions without the customary 10 per cent discount. We call your attention to the fact that more than one-half of the subscriptions received so far have had the percentage deducted, which is not in accordance with the general understanding of the Magazine management and officers present at the conference. Will you kindly give this matter your attention and give these facts as wide publicity as possible in order that the subscriptions which we receive hereafter, will be accompanied with the full amount of the price of the magazine, which is $1.00. Sincerely, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. To the Relief Society Magazine SUBSCRIBERS Commencing with the November issue your expiration will appear on the outside cover of the magazine, with your address. Watch for Your Expiration! Eanpongqauntanptacdsiasauncssunaun S?sy BY TEST" Ice Cream: 'Candy Cake-Luncheons PHONE. WAS. 3223. -. P. O. BOX 17/3. ? SALT LAKE City -APage for Every Woman Containing latest patterns?fascinating health and beauty suggestions?receipes for cooking special dishes?and numerous articles that have special appeal to women readers. In fact there is a department for every member of the family furnishing entertainment and wunaranea information regarding the live topics of the day. All this with progressiveness?wholesomeness and dependability characterizes The Deseret News Utah's Leading Evening Newspaper An tel MABE AI Cuts" t When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine sti ? Individual Sacrament Sets Now in Stoc Best in the Market _ RECOMMENDED BY PATRONS. REFERENCES FURNISHED Made especially for L. D. S. Churches, and successfully used in Utah and Inter-mountain region, also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific Islands. Basic metal, Nickel Silver, heavily plated with Solid Silver. SIMPLE, SANITARY, DURABLE Satisfaction guaranteed. Inquiries cheerfully answered THE LATEST ACKNOWLEDGMENT. Bishop's Office, Bern, Idaho, May 2, 1921. "I am in receipt of the Individual Sacrament Set, consisting of four trays and the proper number of glasses. "Everything arrived in good condition. We are very pleased with it, I take this occasion to thank you for your kindness." Bureau of Information ~ Mention Relief Society Magazine Ask Your Dealer for Z. C. M. I. Boys' School SHOES When Shopping Mention Relief Society Magazine Temple Block Salt Lake City 'Pork & Beans Sauerkraut Table Syrup Pumpkin Fruits Tomatoes Hominy Tomato Soup Tomato Catsup Tomato Puree Remember the severely restrict ed diet of the Pivneers in the winter; they were practically lim ited to root vegetables and meats Time and season count for little now-a days. The pick ef our bounteous harvests is ready for your table in season and out. PIERCE'S FOODS have bettered the health, lightened the labor and made good food more economical in practically every Utah home since 1888?Ask your grocer for BEANS PIERCE'S. Sanatorily Packed ?Everlastingly Backed by UTAH CANNING G Daddy of 'Em All _ Qzden Since 1583 The Utah State National Bank The officers are always glad to meet customers and discues business plans with them. Officers Huser J. Grawr, President. Cuartes W, Nistey, Vice-President. Cuas. S. Burton, Vice-President. Henry T. McEwan, V.-Pres. & Cashier. Atvim C. Strona, Assistant Cashier. Joun W. Jaues, Asst. Cashier. Mention Relief Society Magazine An Appropriate gift A Bound Volume of the Relief Society Magazine Following are the ones we have on hand: 12 Vols. Of 1915 Cloth Bound $1.75 1 Vol. Of 1918 Leather Bound 2.00 2 Vols. Of 1919 Cloth Bound.. 2.75 1 Vol. Of 1919 Leather Bound 3.00 6 Vols. Of 1920 Cloth Bound.. 2.75 10 Vols. Of 1920 Leather 0: 3.00 15c Extra for postage. All orders should be addressed te the Relief Society Magazine, Room 22, Bishops Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah. Mention Relief Society Magazine IX 1 a OD} Lull Was. 912 Was. 912 A Spirit of Friendly Sympathy Marks Every Feature of Our Service S. M. TAYLOR, President PHONE WASATCH 912. S. M. TAYLOR & COMPANY Funeral directors to the People of Salt Lake City and Vicinity since 1860. A. MEEKING, JR., Secy. And Treas. An institution, founded when the city was yet young, whose service has been faithfully built up to noteworthy eminence in the proprieties of funeral service. Was. 912 251-257 East First South Street. Mention Religf Society Magazine Was. 912 MAY, 1922 Read the Special Articles: A PIONEER MOTHER'S GRAVE ON THE PLATTE RIVER MAY?MOTHER'S MONTH GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY ANNUAL REPORT FOR 1921 Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of 'Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Room 29 Bishop's Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year?Single Copy, 10c Canada and Foreign, $1.25 a Year?l5c Single Copy Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah L. D. S. GARMENTS LOOK FOR THIS LABEL IN THE NECK OF GARMENTS "tw" | Gof Bran GARMENTS The Sign of Comfort a Style; Price 1 Special Summer weight..........$.95 24 Unbranded special, light wt. 1.25 15 Bleached spring needle gauze 1.50 25 Cotton, light wt., bleached...... 2.00 3 Cotton, gauze wt., bleached 2.00 75 Cotton, medium wt., bleached 2.50 70 Main St. Mention Relief Society Magasine If your leading dealer does not have the garments yeu desire, select your wants from this list and send order direct to us. We will prepay all postage te any part of the United States. Samples submitted upon request. Style a Price 100 Cotton, heavy wt., bleached.... 2.95 50 Lisle, gauze wt., bleached..... 2.65 107 Merino wool, medium wt...... 3.75 109 Merino wool, heavy weight... 4.25 65 Mercerized, It. Wt., bleached 3.75 305 Australian wool, It. Wt........-..-- 6.00 1922 Pure Glove Silk........ Soe CHD The only approved Garments made with wide flaps at back, bottom holes for ' better fastening down front, and set-in shoulder pieces to prevent sleeyes stretching. Salt Lake Knitting Store Salt Lake City BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Society first to recognize the need of meeting the reduction of high prices Call at our Burial Clothes Department 23 Bishop's Building Prompt attention given all out of town orders TEMPLE SUITS MADE TO ORDER Salt Lake City, Utah Phone Wasatch 3286 Mention Relief Society Magasine Music Magnetizes theHome The Columbia Grafonola is the only phonograph which has the non-set automatic stop. $100.00 For this Beauty Take 15 Months to Pay Danes: Beate Music TTA LAKE cama "OLDER THAN THE STATE OF UTAH Mention Relief Society Magazine gosnrer + DAVNES PRES CAPITAL/250,000.00 HOUSEHOLD TREASURERS In this day of household economics the lady of the home has, to a great extent, become the house treasurer and financier?it is she who carries the pocketbook, in other words, it is she who should supervise the bank account. Y To these good ladies we suggest the use of the check book. It is the modern, economic and convenient way to handle money. The bank check is a good receipt for money paid out on household accounts? it is a bookkeeper. TRY THE BANK PLAN. National Bank of Commerce OGDEN, UTAH When Shopping Mention Relief Society Magazine Latter-Day Saints Garments APPROVED LABEL IN EACH GARMENT No. No. 7 pee save eee = = 110 Medium wool, mixed... 3.00 ight weight, bleached............ 1.: 160 Medium weight, cotton..... Ao Heh oe wool, mixed. Ae 4.00 122 Medium weight, bleached........ 2.00 117 Snow White Silkaline.......... 3.40 190 Heavy weight, cotton................ 2.25 118 All Merino Wool... 5.50 No. 657 Iverson St. "Reliable Agents Wanted" Salt Lake City, Utah Attention, Friends: If you are looking for something appropriate to give your son or daughter for graduation, call on W. M. McCONAHAY - The Reliable Jeweler 64 So. Main St. Phone W. 1821 Salt Lake City, Utah When Shopping Mention Relief Society Magazine Free to Every Mother ?new Catalog of Church Publications A 36-page Catalog of L. D. S. Church Publications, Bibles and MiscelIaneous Books. Packed full of interesting book information. Write for your free copy today?you'll prize it very highly. We can furnish you with any Book you may wish to own, through our efficient Mail Order Department. Build up a home library for the young foks. Deseret Book Company 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City When Shopping Mention Relief Society Magazine 