I Vol. IX DECEMBER, 1922 No.-12 

CONTENTS

Arrival of the Shepherds Frontispiece
For Christmas The Good They Do Depends On You 646
Christmas Giving Mary E. Connelly 647
General Procession James H. Anderson 648
Editorial, The Christmas Spirit 651
The Message of the Bells Nina Burnham McKean 652

PUBLICATION INFORMATION

Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Room 29 Bishop's Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah
$1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c
Canada and Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15c Single Copy
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah

ADVERTISEMENTS

The Utah State National Bank

The officers are always glad to meet customers and discuss business plans with them.

Officers
Heber J. Grant, President
Anthony W. Ivins, Vice-President
Charles W. Nibley, Vice-President
Chas. S. Burton, Vice-President
Henry T. McEwan, V.-Pres. & Cashier
Alvin C. Strone, Assistant Cashier
John W. James, Asst. Cashier

Mention Relief Society Magazine

Guaranteed L. D. S. Garments FOR LESS MONEY

150—Light Weight Bleached Cotton Flat Weave $1.95
401 or 104—Light weight unbleached Cotton $1.95
511—Heavy weight unbleached Cotton $1.95
901—Extra heavy unbleached Cotton $2.00
911—Extra heavy unbleached Cotton $2.20
911—Extra heavy bleached Cotton $2.25
635—Medium weight part Wool $3.00
845—Heavy weight all Wool $4.50
601—Lisle Garments $2.00
204—Mercerized Lisle $3.00

We advocate unbleached Garments, for men such numbers as 901, 511 and 911
Postage paid in U. S.; Canada and Mexico, 10c Additional
Garments marked for 25c per pair
Double back and extra sizes over size 46 10% extra
Be sure to state size

THE RELIABLE (MAIL ORDER DEPT.)
1069 E. 21st South
Salt Lake, Utah

BURIAL CLOTHES

Relief Society first to recognize the need of meeting the reduction of high prices

Call at our Burial Clothes Department
23 Bishop's Building
Prompt attention given all out of town orders

TEMPLE SUITS MADE TO ORDER

Salt Lake City, Utah
Phone Wasatch 3286

Mention Relief Society Magazine

Music Magnetizes the Home

The Columbia Grafonola is the only phonograph which has the non-set automatic stop.

$100.00 For this Beauty
Take 15 Months to Pay

OLDER THAN THE STATE OF UTAH

Mention Relief Society Magazine

It Is Noticeable

That Women who have a regular amount deposited in their household checking account each month are also maintaining a growing savings account. By knowing just what money they have to depend upon, they are able to spend more economically.

National Bank of Commerce
OGDEN, UTAH

When Shopping Mention Relief Society Magazine

Latter-Day Saints Garments

LABEL IN EACH GARMENT

No. 104 Light Summer Weight Bleached $1.40
No. 124 Heavy weight, bleached $2.50
No. 150 Extra white Merc. $3.00
No. 111 Light weight, cotton $1.20
No. 110 Medium wool, mixed $1.75
No. 120 Light weight, bleached $1.75
No. 160 Medium weight, cotton $1.75
No. 122 Medium weight, bleached $2.00
No. 117 Snow White Silkaline $3.40
No. 190 Heavy weight, cotton $2.25
No. 118 All Merino Wool $5.50

MODEL KNITTING WORKS
No. 657 Iverson St.
"Reliable Agents Wanted"
Salt Lake City, Utah

Phone Was. 1828

Say it with Gifts

W. M. McCONAHAY
THE JEWELER
64 So. Main
Salt Lake City, Utah

When Shopping Mention Relief Society Magazine

PRESENT MOTHER WITH A BOUND VOLUME OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

Following are the ones we have on hand:

12 vols. of 1915, cloth bound $1.75
1 vol. of 1918, leather bound $3.00
2 vols. of 1919, cloth bound $2.75
1 vol. of 1919, leather bound $3.00
6 vols. of 1920, cloth bound $2.75
10 vols. of 1920, leather bound $3.00
15c Extra for postage

Individual Sacrament Sets
Now in Stock

BEST IN THE MARKET
WILL LAST A LIFE TIME
36 GLASSES IN EACH TRAY
RECOMMENDED BY PATRONS
REFERENCES FURNISHED

Made especially for L. D. S. Churches, and successfully used in Utah and Intermountain region, also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific Islands.

Basic metal, Nickel Silver, heavily plated with Solid Silver.

SIMPLE, SANITARY, DURABLE
Satisfaction guaranteed. Inquiries cheerfully answered

THE LATEST ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

"I am in receipt of the Individual Sacrament Set, consisting of four trays and the proper number of glasses. Everything arrived in good condition. We are very pleased with it. I take this occasion to thank you for your kindness."

Bishop's Office, Bern, Idaho, May 2, 1921.

BUREAU OF INFORMATION
Temple Block
Salt Lake City

THESE LABELS ASSURE YOU SATISFACTION

Z. C. M. I. FACTORY MADE
Shoes and Overalls

Are built in a factory that has been rejuvenated with modern machinery. Help the movement for Inter-mountain development.

"And there were in the same country shepherds abiding in the field, keeping watch over their flock by night. * * * And the angel said unto them, Fear not; for, behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people." 

"For unto you is born this day in the city of David. A Savior, which is Christ the Lord. "And * * * the shepherds said one to another, Let us now go even unto Bethlehem, and see this thing which is come to pass, which the Lord hath made known unto us. "And they came with haste, and found Mary, and Joseph, and the babe lying in a manger." ?Luke 2:8, 10, 11, 15, 16. X* * * ARRIVAL OF THE SHEPHERDS Henri Lerolle Kate Thomas "Behold, a virgin * * * shall bring forth a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel; which being ix-terpreted is, God with us."?St. Matthew, 1:23. O holy Babe within the manger lying, As yet unmindful of your mother's joy, Had it not been for shepherd voices crying, Your little world had dubbed you merely boy. (Who were those shepherds that heard angels sing? Prophets unknown for all our wondering.) 7 But there you were, soft-fleshed and wholly human, Cried for your dinner, likely, who shall say? And your dear mother, Child, was but a woman, Foolish and fond as any of today; (But wiser, in Divine love set apart, Keeping these things to ponder in her heart.) MEMES Sepia Ay, there you were, a little bunch of swaddling, GOD WITH US, eyes and ears and hands and feet? A tempting armful for some mortal coddling, GOD WITH US, weak and helpless, small and sweet! O wonder of all wonders! Could it. Be? No marvel angels sang in ecstasy! O holy Babe within the manger lying, Was it foredoomed the world must prove so base? And, all unworthy of Thy sanctifying, Make wicked clamor for Thy empty place? Could nothing show to blatant fools their loss And spare the anguish of the torturous cross? O vibrant bells of joyous Christmas chiming, Ring in our hearts the rebirth of a God! Deathless, enduring, fixed for all out-timing, Immune to jealousies and hate and fraud. Emmanuel, GOD WITH US, shall o'erride The cruel judgment of Christ crucified! Emmanuel, GOD WITH US, Shining One! Mary, no more thy tears fall for thy Son. THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. IX DECEMBER, 1922 No. 12 THE CHRISTMAS SPIRITWe should get the Christmas spirit into our hearts, not for one day alone, but for all time. The Christmas spirit is the Spirit of Jesus Christ as expressed in his mission to earth. It was stated by the angel and the heavenly hosts to the shepherds of Judea when the glory of the Lord shown around about them, on the first Christmas, and they were told: "Fear not: for, behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people. For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior which is Christ the Lord." It was further declared in a song of praise by a multitude of the heavenly hosts accompanying the angel, in these words: "Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men." He came to the world to establish peace, and to save mankind, not in sin, but from' sin. That is the key-note to the season. How shall peace and good will come to this earth and to our lives? By obedience to the gospel of Jesus Christ. To accomplish this end, the Christianity which he established, the true Christianity, carried with it no compulsion, but was to win its way to victory by lowly service, love, patience, and consecration. Jesus Christ himself set the example by constant service and, in the end, by dying for his faith. His followers ever after have been called upon to abide by his example in all its logical consequences. Hence, the true Christian must conduct himself as if his action was to be a law for all human beings. Christ came, not to compel the people of the nat'ons to adopt the new gospel, but it was to be done by persuasion, and love, by self-choice and free agency. It was to be established, rather, by the teaching of great principles to mankind, and obtaining the individual con- EDITORIAL 651 sent of each worker to assist in furthering the great message which he came to earth to deliver, and which was destined to secure the salvation of humankind, physically, intellectually, morally and spiritually. His gospel has shown a marvelous power of modifying what it does not altogether 'supplant. It is true that his message was perverted, and for many ages practically lost sight of, and seemingly failed from the time his apostles were taken away until it was again restored by the Father and the Son in the dispensation of the fulness of times through Joseph Smith, the prophet. It has now been restored never more to be taken away. The Father and the Son appeared to Joseph and re-established the true Church and Kingdom which Christ, himself, was instrumental in founding upon the earth. Does this Church meet the requirements? Yes; where followed, its principles bring peace on earth, good will to men. It requires of its members, love, service and sacrifice, which have the power to bring forth blessings. It has in it the ability to modify the teachings and perverted doctrines of the present, as well as those which prevailed in the world when the restoration was made. The mission of the Latter-day Saints is to perform this great work which the Lord, himself, declared on 'ts restoration to be a "marvelous work and a wonder." When we contemplate the history of the Latter-day Saints, since that time, 'we have an unmistakable confirmation of the truth of these statements. We have a knowledge which stands as a living witness to the divinity of the restorat'on and the fact that this is the true Church of God. Our people have indeed received a vision of the revelations that Christ made when he was upon the earth, as to the glories that were and are to come upon the earth from his gospel message. The Saints have indeed passed through many of the trials and vicissitudes necessary to establish a work of the kind. The prophet who was chosen to found it, sacrificed his life, as did our elder brother, Jesus Christ, for the faith which he came upon the earth to establish, and which was given for the redemption of mankind from sin and evil. Joseph Smith, his disciple and prophet, was called upon to follow in his footsteps, and the Latter-day Saints have likewise been required and are required to come out of Babylon and its wickedness, and by love, faith, and good works, dedicate their lives to the establishment of true Christianity in the world. In this mission, mothers in Israel have much to do to implant faith in the hearts of their children. The homes of the Latterde Saints should be earnest disseminators of the testimony and mission of JesusChrist. Faith in God and in his Son should be instilled into the hearts of the children so that the plan of salvation may become a great reality to them, and they become true disciples of our Lord and Savior, following his example in all 6520 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE its logical results. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is the true Church of Christ. Let us who have received this knowledge and the vision and purpose of its establishment prove our faith in our daily lives, and on this day, admit into our souls the spirit of Christmas, and with the poet Whittier, sing: "Blow bugles of battle, the marches of peace; East, west, north, and south, let the long quarrel cease; Sing the song of great joy that the angels began, Sing of glory to God and of good will to man." The Message of the Bells Nina Burnham McKean Oh, Christmas Bells! Oh, Christmas Bells! What is the message your ringing tells? What do you hear, oh, brother mine, When you list to the sound of Christmas chime? Methinks I hear in the sound of the bells A thought for each where e'er he dwells; For the Babe, who was born in Bethlehem, Was sent to redeem the souls of men. Ringing, swinging, Christmas chimes; Bringing pictures of olden times; Of the beautiful Babe in Bethlehem, Of the Manger, the Star, the Three Wise Men; Of angels singing in heaven above, Sending to earth the message of love; Down through the ages we hear it still; "Peace on earth, toward men, good will!" That heart with burden so heavy to bear, May find sweet solace and surcease from care, In the chime of the bells,?the message so blest; "Oh, come unto me, and I will give rest." - The brother who bitter has grown in his hate, Is a message for him, or is it too late? In the sound of the bells the Savior's words live, "Yea, seven times seven, forgive, and forgive." But what is the hope the chiming can bring,, To the sinner so hardened he scarce hears the ring? Yea, even may he, by the Master be shriven, For thus on the cross the thief was forgiven. Oh, Christmas Bells, oh, Christmas Bells, What is the message your ringing tells? What do you hear, oh, brother mine, When you list to the' sound of the Christmas chime? Guide Lessons for December LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in February) THE MIRACLE OF TESTIMONY The Nature of a Testimony: A religious testimony is a state of certitude occasioned and sustained by a spiritual influence. It must have behind it some sort of superhuman support, and therefore has in it the miracle element. It differs from a state of mental certitude obtained by thinking. It is more the fruits of conversion than of conviction. In its perfection, it is intellect plus inspiration; it is knowing plus feeling. We are convinced, through philosophy, of the necessity for God; we are converted through religion to acquaintance with God. A person seeing the fruits of "Mormonism" might apply for membership in the Church, through a conviction that it is the most perfect organization on earth for the development and happiness of men; but he could not claim to be a convert until he could say, "I am not only convinced in my mind, but I feel in my soul that it is God's work." This feeling of the truth occasioned by the presence and the power of the Spirit of the Lord, is the conversion from which our testimony comes. The Two Forms of Obtaining a Testimony: To most of our young people the miracle of testimony is one of gradual growth or development. Unknown to them, the mother's lullabys, the bed-time prayers, the family devotion, the Sunday School songs, and all the spiritual activities in which they take part, are all making them converts. Their whole being has been gradually adjusted to the pleasurable companionship of the Spirit of the Lord, and this spiritual growth has been as natural and unconscious as the growth of their bodies and their intellects. When they are baptized and confirmed, the presence of the Spirit of the Lord during these ordinances occasions no surprise; they simply feel that they have done right and this feeling is conversion; it is testimony. The Spirit of the Lord with which they are habitually acquainted testifies to them with a certainty akin to that of the voice that spoke out of heaven to our Father Adam at his baptism. They are born sons and daughters 654 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of God in a miraculously natural way. (See Pearl of Great Price, Book of Moses, Chapter 6:64-68.) -This form of conversion might fittingly be called the natural growth form. Recently George Albert Smith declared at a Utah Stake conference that he did not know when he first obtained a testimony. There is another form of conversion, which is attended with more or less spontaneity or exceptional experience, and it is accompanied by so much sudden transition that it is the one great epoch-making event in the life, and under certain conditions it is accompanied by physical disturbances. This form of conversion may be called spontaneous conversion. (See Compendium Gems, pages 288, 289.) Methods of Conversion: When conversion becomes man's business, means and methods are of vital consideration. Great care is taken as to the settings for the event. The spiritual revival becomes a matter of thought and materialistic preparation. The building, the lights, the mourner's bench, the sermon, the psychic moment, all these means and more are found in the sectarian procedure of churches authorized by men, named after men, and dependent upon men! Where conversion is recognized as beyond the power of man or as a divine gift, the investigator is told to place his own case before the true and living God, as did the boy Joseph Smith. He should find out for himself, and this finding is the rock upon which the Church of Christ is built up in the soul of man, as a system of knowledge, and upon the earth as a system of ordinances for the salvation of the whole human family. Of one who is so converted, it may be said, the Kingdom of heaven is within him for his comfort and support, and it is also without him, offering opportunities for his growth and development. Retaining our Testimony or Our State of Conversion: As our testimonies are obtained through doing works, so will they be retained through a continuance of these works. A testimony, 'be it ever so glorious, can not safely be kept as a spiritual ornament, like the powers of the Priesthood, it fades away through neglect. President George Q. Cannon, in a discourse to the young people in the Salt Lake Tabernacle, enumerated among' other causes of apostasy or loss of testimony, "unchastity, finding fault with the authorities of the Church, and the neglect of Church duties." The best testimony that a nontithe payer can bear is, "I know that the gospel is true, and I know that I am not true to it." Attending to our prayers is one of the fundamental duties. The retention of testimony is governed by that great law of the universe which says, "Use and retain, abuse and lose." LESSON DEPARTMENT 655 Increasing of Testimony: Spiritual testimony grows parallel with our positive acquaintance with God. Satan and Cain and legions of evil spirits had an acquaintance with God but it jwas all negative. Being always in an antagonistic attitude none of them could ever know God as the loving Father, or Jesus as the Redeeming brother. There was no room in their souls for the testimony germ, but with Adam, Abraham, Moses, Joseph Smith, and many others, their testimony grew to a perfection and they knew first of the existence of God as the Father of all, of Jesus Christ as the Redeemer of the race, and were spiritually conscious that their course in life was such as to merit the favor of the Lord. The growth of testimony as a gift is dependent upon our determination to serve the Lord "at all hazards." Testimony is increased. By the study of the word of God. We. Read the scriptures for information; we read them for confirmation and the refreshing of our faith. Testimony is increased by listening to the word of God. The habit of attending conferences and sacrament meetings is a habit of testimony growth. Our testimonies grow by bearing them to others. Language is not only a mode of expression but it is a source of thought crystallization and intensification of feeling. It is by no means necessary that testimony bearing be accompanied by a desire to' talk; it often happens that the gift of testimony follows a humble hesitant attempt to express a 'belief, a hope, a desire, or a bit of knowledge concerning God and his goodness. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. What is a testimony? 2. Wherein does conversion differ from conviction? 3. Discuss this problem: Reason may convince, but revelation only can convert. 4, Give scriptural proof that individual testimony is the rock upon which Jesus Christ declared he would build his Church, (Matt. 16:16, 17.).5. Contrast the testimonies of Peter and that of Cornelius, concerning Jesus of Nazareth, with a view to discovering which was a conviction and which was a conversion. (See John 3:3.) 6. Compare the testimony of the'Wise Men from the east with that of Simeon, in the temple, concerning Christ. (See Matt. 2:22; Luke 2:25-32.) 7. Distinguish between the progressive testimony and the spontaneous, or sudden, testimony. 8. What is Joseph the Prophet's explanation of the different effects of receiving the gift of the Holy Ghost? 9, Discuss this statement attributed to Brigham Young: 656 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE a testimonies are obtained upon the feet than upon the nees." 10. Give the views of President Joseph F. Smith concerning obtaining a testimony. (See Gospel Doctrine, page 158.) 11. How are our testimonies to be used? (See Gospel Docirine, page 257.) 12. What are the chief purposes of testimony bearing? (See Gospel Doctrine, pages 258, 259, 260.) LESSON II Work and Business. (Second Week in February) LESSON III Literature. (Third Week in February ) -LITERATURE OF THE REVOLUTIONARY PERIOD The Revolutionary period marks a time when zeal for a new cause set men's souls on fire. Katharine Lee Bates has aptly said that as the theme of our Colonial literature is theology, so the theme of our Revolutionary literature is politics. There is an element of unity in the literature of the Revolutionary period that is not characteristic of the literature of the Colonial period. Interest in a common purpose made them forget their differences. A large group became convinced that Great Britain was attempting to levy unjust taxes upon the colonists of America. This conviction brought together thirteen scattered and diverse commonwealths into one nation and made possible the beginning of a national literature. Three types of literature predominated: state papers, speeches, and essays. The great Earl of Chatham said on the floor of the English parliament, "When you consider the decency, firmness, and w-sdom of the American state papers, you cannot but respect their cause." State Papers: The Declaration of Independence, written by Thomas Jefferson, was perhaps the greatest of these state papers. Bronson says, "Its bold enunciation of great principles, its lofty passion of liberty, and its elastic, ringing style stirred the souls of its first readers and have stirred the souls of millions since." For LESSON DEPARTMENT 657 Jefferson poured into it great faith in 'a great ideal. Jefferson caught the idealism of France and made it the realism of America. Speeches: The debates, orations, and political sermons of this per-od, while heated, maintained a high general level judged by literary standards. The greatest orator of the North was James Otis of Massachusetts. His appeal was to the intellect, the reasoning faculties of the mind. His famous address against Writs of Assistance, delivered in 1761, was characterized by learning and weighty arguments. The greatest Revolutionary orator of the emotional type was Patrick Henry, of Virginia. The gift of eloquence was his. Whenever we hark back to Revolutionary times, we hear his impassioned appeal, "Is life so dear, or peace so sweet as to be purchased at the price of chains and slavery! Forbid it, Almighty God! J know not what course others may take, but as for me, give me liberty or give me death!" Essays: We must not forget that before the war of arms was the battle of words. The verbal contest lasted ten years. Those who were not gifted with the fiery eloquence of a Patrick Henry made their contribution to the 'cause by writing pamphlets. For over a quarter of a century, Samuel Adams poured forth a flood of literature that assisted beyond measure in the moulding of public sentiment. He was one of the most prolific essayists of the period. A friend, who not infrequently had occasion to pass his home at midnight, said when he saw his light burning that "he knew that Sam Adams was writing something against the Tories." Yet we must not suppose that all the great controversial essays of this period came from those who had grievances against Great Britain. Some of the most forceful and elegant papers of the time were written by those who supported the contention of the mother country, and felt that America would jeopardize her best interests if she cut loose from the land beyond the sea. Letters of a Farmer in Pennsylvania, by John Dickinson, deserve the fame accorded them. In them we get the point of view of the conservative or royalist. A? young man only eighteen years of age, an undergraduate of King's College, now: Columbia University, wrote a pamphlet entitled, "The Farmer Refuted," which caught the attention of the thinking public at once. This young man was Alexander Hamilton. The Independence Journal of New York published The Federalist, a series of eighty-five essays of high literary merit. The essays were written by Alexander Hamilton, James Madison, and John Jay. The first contributor of this group has been styled the most precocious statesman America has ever produced, the second drafted 658 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the constitution. Of the United States; and the third was the first Chief Justice of the United States. We shall select, for special emphasis, from the notable persons of this period, one whose achievement, the beloved. Poet, Henry W. Longfellow, cast into poetic form. Paul Revere is a person of great interest apart from the fact that he made the famous ride through Lexington and Concord. He used his art as a silversmith to make prints and copperplate engravings of pictures of Anti-Revolutionary events, which were sent broadcast and made wide and successful appeals to patriotism. Paul Revere had a family that would astonish most Americans of today. It consisted of sixteen children. He had married tw'ce and each wife had borne him eight children. As a silversmith he made teaspoons, mugs, sugar tongs, and other articles to gladden the hearts and homes of Colonial dames. He did work that compared favdrably with the work done by the British silversmiths in Great Britain. Versatility was one of the characteristics that marked Paul Revere. "He even turned his attention to dentistry." Shackleton tells us that "in the early days when dentistry was barely beginning to be a science, Paul Revere practiced. There is still extant one of his advertisements of 1768, reading: 'Whereas, many persons are so unfortunate as to lose their foreteeth by accident, and otherways, to their great Detriment, not only in Looks, but speaking both in Public and Private:?This is to inform all such, that they may have them replaced with artificial Ones, that look as well as the Natural and answer the end of speaking to all Intents, by Paul Revere.' "When, quite a while after Bunker Hill, it was desired to remove the remains of General Warren from its first restingplace, it was Paul Revere who identified it by an artificial tooth and the wire he had used to fasten it in, Revere also engraved much of the Revolutionary money. Nor does the list of his varied activities end here, for he also made the carved wood frames for many of Copley's paintings, and beautiful frames they are." One of Cyrus E. Dallin's famous pieces is of Paul Revere, mounted. Much verse that hardly deserves the name of poetry was written during the Revolutionary period. The stirring political events of the times naturally called forth popular songs and ballads. These songs were as a rule crude in form and for the most part intensely partisan. From this period comes, "Yankee Doodle" which has brought to us much fun if little literary fame. The Puritan spirit had to subside, in a measure, before there could be any development in the drama, so it is a perfectly nat-. Ural thing that it should not make its appearance before the Revolutionary period. The first American theatre was built at Annapolis in 1752. The following year a theatre was erected in LESSON DEPARTMENT 659 New York. Six years later a theatre was built in Philadelphia. The first play of American authorship was "The Prince of Parthia," a stormy, ranting tragedy by Thomas Godfrey, of Philadelphia. Its initial appearance was in 1767. The first American comedy did not appear until twenty years later, and when it was presented, to employ the language of Katharine Lee Bates, it came "with the flourish of Revolutionary trumpets." QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. What three types of literature predominate in the Revolutionary period? 2. In any community some standard history of the United States may be found that will contain The Declaration of Independence and the Constitut'on of the United States. Have the class leader select some brief passages of interest and read them to the class. In the larger centers where the writings of the period are accessible, have the class leader select from any of the writers, mentioning passages she thinks will prove of interest. 3. Did George Wash'ngton make any contribution to the state papers of the period that is regarded as literature? 4. Read the section from the Doctrine and Covenants that speaks of the Constitution of the United States. (Section 101.) 5. In the light of this revelation, what should be the attitude of the Latter-day Saints towards the Constitution of the United States? 6. What explanation have you of the fact that the majority of the speakers at the General Conference, held in October, urged - loyalty to the Constitution and to law? 7. Have some one in the class repeat the stanzas of "Yankee Doodle," sing: t if you care to, but see how many different stanzas you can bring together by calling on the class for any they may know. 8. Have someone read "Paul Revere's Ride" and see if it takes on any added meaning in the light of greater familiarity with its author. It can be found in any complete edition of Longfellow and in many of the school readers. 9, Why should we not expect theatres to be built and plays to be presented in Puritan days? 10. Who made the first American flag? Go to some good encyclopedia or history and see what you can find out about her. LIST OF AUTHORS Samuel Adams, James Otis, Patrick Henry, George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, Alexander Hamilton, Thomas Paine, Philip Freneau, John Trumbull, Timothy Dwight, Joel Barlow, 660 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE St. George Tucker, Occasional Poems of the Revolutionary Period, Royall Twiler, Charles Brockden Brown. If you have access to Readings from American Literature, by Page, or Calhoun and MacAlarney, or the more extensive work entitled Library of American Literature, by Stedman and Hutchinson, Vol. III, you will be able to find ample reading material for the Revolutionary period. LESSON, IV Social Service (Fourth week in February) WHAT COURTSHIP SHOULD REVEAL To know. A young man or a young woman implies more than what is given in an introduction or what is observed in a social party. If a young woman is to really know her young man she must see him in more serious relations of life. She is not really acquainted with him until she has observed his mental and moral powers in actual operation. She must see his religious tendencies expressed in active service of God and his ability to provide for a family by his life of industry and enterprise. And, finally, and by means the least important, she must learn of his home habits and family ideals which can he done only by observing how he treats his parents and his brothers and sisters. Thus the fathers and mothers of young people have a greater task than to provide social opportunities to bring their children together. There are many relations in which the young man must be observed. He should be observed in school work, in his religious activities, in his home and at his employment. It may be entirely impossible for a young lady to observe her friend in all these activities. She needs the assistance of father and mother, as well as brother and sister. Conventionality may not favor so searching an investigation of the powers and virtues, weaknesses, and vices of the friends of our sons and daughters, yet the welfare of family life and the higher rights of morality and justice demand it. P Hereditary Qualities Since marriage means more than the happiness or unhappiness of the parties to the contract, and since it means the bringing of human beings into the world, the question of hereditary power deserves attention. It is very important both from the standpoint of the happiness of the family and the welfare of humanity, that in select'ng a life's companion that preference be given to those who can 'perpetuate strong bodies and strong minds. The heredi- LESSON DEPARTMENT 661 tary qualities of the family into which a young person marries should thus be well known. And since the individual does not always show in his own appearance the qualities which he may transmit, care should be taken to observe the qualities revealed in the life of his blood relatives. If a great amount of insanity or feeble-mindedness'or physical deformity appears among the near blood relatives of the man or woman with whom marriage is contemplated, caution should be exercised in the matter by those immediately concerned. God has given us certain responsibilities, and among these is that of bringing human beings into the world. We do not want our sons and daughters to bring a weak human body into the world, if by proper direction we can avoid it. Not only can par-- ents do a great deal to avoid such undesirable marriages, but the community leaders and officials should render assistance in giving proper information on these matters. As an example, showing the human waste resulting from undesirable unions, note the following: "Martin Kallikak was a youthful soldier'in the Revolutionary war. At a tavern frequented by the militia he met a feeble-minded girl, by whom he became the father of a feeble-minded son. In 1912 there were 480 known direct descendants of this temporary union. It is known that 36 of these were illegitimate, that 33 were immoral, that 24 were corfirmed alcoholics, and that 8 kept houses of ill fame. The explanation of so much immorality will be obvious when it is stated that of the 480 descendants, 143 were known to be feeble-minded and that many of the others were of questionable mentality. A few years after returning from the war, this same Martin Kallikak married a respectable girl of good family. From this union 496 individuals have been traced in direct descent, and in this branch of the family there were no illegitimate children, and no immoral women. There were no criminals, no keepers of houses of ill fame, and only two confirmed alcoholics. Again the explanation is clear when it is stated that this branch of the famiy did not contain a single feeble-minded individual. It was made up of doctors, lawyers, judges, educators, traders and landholders.""?Terman: Measurement ofIntelligence, p. 9-10. Vocational and Business Powers No young woman should permit herself to join hands with a man who has not the ability or the ambition to provide properly for a family. Wealth is, of course, no guarantee of happiness, yet we are reasonably certain that poverty in its extreme form is sure to bring misery to the entire family. No woman can be happy with a man who cannot provide the necessities of life. On the other hand, a man of limited income cannot be successful in his business if he marries a woman with no knowledge of how to economize. The material success of a family depends quite as much upon the ability of the wife to spend wisely as it does upon the husband's ability to provide. These are matters which young people do not generally think 662 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE about, but which should be brought to their attention by parents and carefully considered, Unless the parents raise the question of the young man's ability to support a family, it may not occur to the daughter until it is perhaps too late. Practical Thought and the Romance of Life Some people contend that a consideration of such practical questions as the foregoing sometimes deprives courtship of its romance. It is true that such considerations may destroy a sweet dream, but a dream that cannot come true has no value. And the dreams that come true are those that are accompanied by good common-sense and hard work. Courtship is not what it should be without romance, neither is married life. The best way to prolong romance?love that lasts throughout life---is to exercise proper thought during this early association. Life is beautiful and full of happy emotions which may prove to be bitter illusions unless guided by intelligence. This intelligence must frequently be supplied by parents and ai of wide experience. QUESTIONS 1. When a young man really knows the young woman he chooses to marry, what information does he possess concerning her? 2. What information should a young woman have concerning her young man? 3. What evidence have we to show that feeble-mindedness is transmitted from generation to generation? 4. Show that weak-minded people tend to become immoral. 5. Give reason to show that a young man should give evidence of his ability to support a family before he assumes that responsibility. 6. Why is it important for a man to know the ability of his sweetheart as a housekeeper? 7. Show that the ability to economize is qu'te as important as the power of earning money. 8. How may intelligent thought during the period of courtship extend the romance of life? TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR FEBRUARY OPTIMISM Cultivate an optimistic spirit: 1. By remembering the "oles that come to us through the gospel. 2. By compar'ng our lives with those who have less than we have, instead of those who have more. For further information see George H. Brimhall's lesson on Optimism, Improvement Era, October, 1921. To Our Magazine Subscribers We call your attention to the very high class firms who advertise in the magazine, and ask, whenever possible, to give them your loyal support and patronage. Also kindly mention having read their advertisement in the Magazine. We hope by your assistance to prove our value as a medium through which to advertise. Magazine Managment. UUNDAAUASHAEOACASUUEHACGOGROEUGLINS= Quick Warmth for Winter Mornings No Shivering Kiddies When You Have A Radiantfire What comfort it is for the kiddies to jump out of bed and dress before the cheery glow of an open fire! How fascinating to watch the lacework of the radiants glow like a bed of hot coals. This wonderful new heating discovery brings to you more genuine comfort and convenience than you ever hoped for. Pure, wholesome, satisfying heat that makes you independent of a stubborn furnace. Heaters sold for a small payment with order and the balance in monthly installments. PURCHASE YOUR HEATER NOW! UTAH GAS & COKE CO. Wasatch 705 351 So. Main St. What The Union Pacitic Has Done For Utah (1) It has established general offices in Salt Lake City and is the only, important steam line having general offices in Utah. (2) It built the first railroad into the state and acquired, maintained and improved the Utah Central, first line into Salt Lake City. (3) It employs 5,000 persons in Utah. Annual payroll..........0. 0220 eee e ee eens$7,488,125.95 Taxes paid in 1921.............0..00eeeeweees 996,560.23 Rents paid in 1921.......... 02... Ccc cece ee eee 77,794.72 Total.......000ees seems ? 9 deletes$8,562,480.90 Included in the 1921 taxes were inheritance taxes paid to the state by stockholders of the Union Pacific, $71,774.91. Since the incor-. Poration of the Union Pacific inheritance taxes on its stock have been paid to the state amounting to $1,900,000, a part of which was used in building the State Capitol. By far the greater part of the expenditures for wages and supplies have found their way into Utah's factories, stores and other establishments.; (4) The headquarters for the Dining Car and Hotel Departments are in Ogden, where commissary supplies for the entire system are purchased. (5) The Union Pacific has expended not less than $500,000 in the last ten years in advertising Utah. This advertising has. Been in the form of newspapers, displays, illustrated lectures, decriptive folders, booklets and leaflets. Every advertisement of Yellowstone Park and the Western Entrance bears reference to Salt Lake City or Ogden or Utah, Ninety per cent of the travelers who enter Yellowstone Park over the Union Pacific rails visit Ogden or Salt Lake City or both. Every through traveler to Southern California is urged to stop in Utah. (6) The free Ogden-Salt Lake City side trip was established by the Union Pacific System. This side trip was not abolished by the Union Pacific, but was discontinued under Government Control. The Union Pacific was not inimical to its reestablishment, and was the first to reinstate it. (7) The Union Pacific Purchasing Agent in Salt Lake buys material and supplies in large quantities from Utah's mines, manufacturers and merchants. In the first eight months of 1922 the gross value of Union Pacific purchases from concerns located in Utah, or maintaining offices in the state, aggregated $4,982,732. (8) At Ogden are the headquarters of the Gunn Supply Co., which furishes the section labor and commissary supplies to maintenance of way employee. This company, in the year ending September 30, 1922, made total purchases of $325,999.42, Its total payroll was $91,152.84. (9) The Union Pacific is now committed to a program of development of the industrial and scenic resources of southern Utah, involving the expenditure of approximately $5,000,000. The plans include construction of the Delta-Fillmore and the Lund-Cedar branch lines, the former being already under way; the taking over of the Cedar City Hotel, the construction of hotels at Zion National Park: and Bryce Canyon. The construction of branch lines with all their appurtenances and requirements will involve the expenditure of around $3,000,000. The total hotel program mow practically decided upon will mean an expenditure of some $2,000,000, making a grand total of $5,000,000.;.. What the Union Pacific has done it will continue to do?assist the communities along its lines to grow and prosper. It is a matter of record that no line has ever come under the control of the Union Pacific which has not been improved in facilities and service to the public. We shall furnish additional information from time to time Union Pacific System SALT LAKE CTIY WOMEN OF THE BIBLE Only 170 copies remain of WOMEN OF THE BIBLE. They are being bought for libraries and holiday presents. $1.00 a copy. $.80 for orders of ten or more. WILLARD DONE Cleanliness is the first requisite to health. Buy no food that is not clean and not surrounded with immaculate cleanliness. We invite you to inspect our Market, our Goods and our methods of doing business. DICKINSON'S The right weigh. CHOICE MEATS AND FANCY GROCERIES ~? No ovecharge. No short-weight. No cold-storage goods, No discourtesy. No substitution. No disappointment. All sales are fully guaranteed. Free weekly merchandise distribution to our Customers, Let us be helpful in planning your meals. Squabs furnished on short notice. Hyland 66. Free Delivery 680 East 2nd South. PRESENT MOTHER WITH A BOUND VOLUME OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Following are the ones we have on hand: 12 vols. Of 1915, cloth bound 1 vol. Of 1918, leather bound 2 vols. Of 1919, cloth bound 1 vol. Of 1919, leather bound 6 vols. Of 1920, cloth bound -.....: 10 vols. Of 1920, leather bound 15c Extra for postage All orders should be addressed to the Relief Sout Magazine Room 22, Bishops Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah. PURE MILK Harris Dairy is the only large dairy which brings its milk direct from 225 So. State Sret HARRIS DAIRY Was. 1684 504 Templeton Building the farms to the dairy by truck. Salt Lake City, Utah c fSEst gy TEST ?Delicious Hand-made Chocolates. ?Famous for their Wonderful 'Centers. ?The Gift Candy Supreme! Order early. KEELEY ICE CREAM CO. Salt Lake APage for Every Woman Containing latest patterns?fascinating health and beauty suggestions?recipes for cooking special dishes?and numerous articles that have special appeal to women readers. In fact there is a department for every member of the family furnishing entertainment and information regarding the live topics of the day. All this with progressiveness?wholesomeness and dependability characterizes Che Deseret News Utah's Leading Evening Newspaper When Buying Mention Relief Society Magasine Columbus, Westward ho! A NEW BOOK By Alice Merrill Horne, author of beautiful books FOR HOME an historic drama, written and designed in the LIBRARY which characterized the Columbian pericd. SCHOOL with ? Address 333 eret News Press. Ouray Ave., Salt Lake City An aristic and charming home production. GIFT. $1.75 atmosphere of romance and the spirit of adventure Ten three-colored illustrations by Florence Ware, Dzs- Was. 912 wenrBen Bh ona) s vie onal Se iagiane NAOT ULI Be a. Was. 912 | A Spirit of Friendly Sympathy Marks Every Feature of Our Service S. M. TAYLOR & COMPANY successors to Joseph E. Taylor Funeral directors to the People of Salt Lake City and Vicinity S. M. TAYLOR, President since 1860. PHONE WASATCH 912. A. MEEKING, JR., Secy. And Treas. An institution, founded when the city was yet young, whose service has been faithfully built up to noteworthy eminence in the proprieties of funeral service. Was. 912 s 251-257 East First South Street. Mention Religf Society Magasine Was. 912 Favorites ?no wonder PIERCE'S SYRUP is so popular. A home product of the highest order?prepared in the most sanitary manner from choicest beet and cane sugars. It solves the morning problem in countless homes. PIERCE'S FOOD PRODUCTS Pacred tert acne i 'si zi ALES i S&? Sdn LS NOS IUZ FIWQTHANA WKRYHNANEL FOR EVERY L. D. S. FAMILY Note the package?BLUE PINE OLIVE OIL is the purest imported FRENCH oil there is, This new package Was purposely placedyge the market for the particul; efit of every Latter-da? family. Its PURITY will guide y? its use in all sickness, how hold purposes, and Church ordinances. Three size bottles 4, 8 and 16 oz. SALAD OIL